V \ <6. .<f. 2/V- *. * • I \ . ■ - . * r‘' 1 » •>** Kftt • w..I F. Cat orTHE FIRST LINES OF THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY; % being an ELEMENTARY WORK FOR STUDENTS, AND A CONCISE BOOK OF REFERENCE FOR PRACTITIONERS, PART I. / GENERAL SURGICAL SUBJECTS. PART II. PARTICULAR SURGICAL SUBJECTS. » WITH COPPER PLATES. By SAMUEL COOPER, MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS; FELLOW 07 THE MEDICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON ; AND AUTHOR OF CRITICAL REFLECTIONS-ON THE CATARACT. LONDON: PRINTED FOR RICHARD PHILLIPS, NO. 6, BRIDGE-STREET, BLACKFRIARS, 1807. T. Gfllet, Wild-Court. [Price 12f. in Boards,']f: ' •*. . ; • r . i if* ' . : ' Lr.'l rWILLIAM LONG, ESQ. F.R.S. F.A.S. , V ^ i* SURGEON OF ST. BARTHOLOMEW’S AND CHRIST’S HOSPITALS. DEAR SIR, IT is with great pleasure, that I inscribe to you this introductory work on Surgery, as to a man, whose great expe- rience must render him a judge of the sub- ject, and whose disinterested kindnesses to the Author will never be forgotten. I remain, dear Sir, • With much esteem and respect. Your faithful and obedient servant. Golden-Square. April 30, 1S07. SAMUEL COOPER.iIN the present Work, an attempt is made to lay before the^reader a sketch of the principal subjects of Surgery. However much the execution of the present under- taking may stand in need of indulgence, I do not conceive, that the mere attempt re- quires any apology. Every student must long have felt the want of a publication, in which the symptoms, and most approved treatment, of surgical diseases, are accurately explained in as few words as possible. Every practitioner must acknowledge, that a work of this kind, if executed with only moderate success, is one, from which great utility will be derived. The pupil, in the interval of lectures, and during his walks through the wards of an hospital, cannot fail to reap in- struction from a book, which contains a concise account of the opinions, and prac- tice, of the most able men, who have everVI PREFACE. shone in the surgical profession. The busy practitioner, little disposed to waste his time in the perusal of speculative and theoretical matter, is always solicitous to find, in the chapter, to which he refers, a short state- ment of the most interesting practical cir- cumstances, separated from all hypothetical disquisitions. As a systematic writer, I have assumed the privilege of enriching my own work with the labours of others. This plan is indispensa- ble ; for no individual will ever be found, who shall give a general account of so ex- tensive a subject as surgery, in the way in which it ought, to be given, unless he make free use of the works of preceding authors. It is quite unnecessary to mention here the various sources from which I have obtained information, as I have taken care, in the subsequent columns, to make honourable mention of every person’s name, to whom I feel indebted for assistance. The plan of the work is simple. The first part contains General Surgical Subjects- ; or, in other words, such disorders as are common to several situations in the body. The second part comprehends Particular Sur- gical Subjects, by which are implied, the dis-PREFACE. Hi .a jl. ~ , orders and injuries of each particular part, /ajQtl the operations practised upon it. Richter’s Anfangsgrunde dcr Wundarzncy- kunst (Elements of Surgery) suggested to me this method of arrangement. However, I have found it convenient to deviate from this plan, in the following re- spect : in treating of such subjects, as aneu- risms, polypi, &c. I have included in the first part of the book the polypi, and aneurisms of particular situations. It seemed to me better to finish at once such subjects as these, and place their different parts together, than to make several chapters of them, and place some of these in the first, and some in the second, part of the book. Having been entirely educated at St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital, one of the first schools of surgery in Europe, I must necessarily have formed a few original ideas from the vT? extensive practice, which I have been in the habit of seeing ; and these are introduced in the ensuing pages. I he fact of the heads of the bones never being expanded, in cases of white swellings, is new to the generality of the surgeons. This subject has been more largely consi- dered in my dissertation, which has justvia PREFACE. • • * been honoured with the premium, given by the College of Surgeons. I am not, however, the only one, to whom merit is due for the mention of this indisputable fact, as will ap- pear, when my observations, presented to the college, are laid before the public. ■ 4 » Golden-Square, April 30, 1807. \ fCONTENTS PART I. . I GENERAL SURGICAL SUBJECTS. CHAPTER I. Page inflammation 1 Causes . 2 Further remarks connected with the subject 3 Treatment of inflammation 5 Removal of the cause ib. RIeeding .'... ib. Purging 0 Antimonials 7 Opium .. *. ib. Diet/ ib. Cold applications ib. Warm applications q Terminations of inflammation A Resolution f , Suppuration >10, 11 Mortification l CHAPTER II. Symptomatic, or sympathetic inflammatory fever Symptoms and varieties Treatment ■ - CHAPTER III. ' Suppuration. Symptoms llieory of suppuration 11 12 13 14 15X CONTENTS. Qualities of pus Differences between pus and mucus Cysts of Abscesses Treatment of phlegmonous abscesses Opening abscesses by a cutting instrument..., .. Opening abscesses by caustic Topical applications to phlegmonous abscesses.... CHAPTER IV. Hectic fever .. Its nature and symptoms Treatment ✓ Page 17 ib. 18 19 ib. 21 ib. 22 ib. 23 CHAPTER V. Mortification 25 Symptoms ib. Two stages of the disorder.. t. ib. Mortification unpreceded by inflammation 26 Treatment of the various kinds of mortification... 28 CHAPTER VI. ftrys'pelas . . /' Symptoms L‘ Constitutional symptoms Cjafses 'Constitutional treatment Local treatment. CHAPTER VII. ' , ' \ Furxinculus, or boil Symptoms Treatment / 32 ib. 33 34 ib. 35 36 ib ib. CHAPTER VIII. Carbuncle , Topical treatment Constitutional treatmentb 2 (Edema, Causes Treatment,. CHAPTER X. Burns Treatment CHAPTER XI. Effects of cold Chilblains Symptoms • Causes ' * • % Treatment CONTENTS. CHAPTER IX. -rtuCf: ... ■ - r Xi Page 39 lb. 40 . 41 . 42 . 44 . 46 ib. . ib. • 47 CHAPTER XII. Wounds . a ..... - 47 Incised wounds 49 - > ■ CHAPTER XIII. Means of stopping hemorrhage 49 1. Tourniquet 50 2. Ligature \i.' 52 3. Compression 54 4. Agaric 57 5. Actual cautery 58 6. Potential cautery ib. 7. Styptics ib. 8. Particular remarks ' 59 CHAPTER XIV. Extraction of foreign bodies from wounds j union by the first intention, §c 6l Position of the part 62 Uniting, or incarnative bandage ib. Adhesive plaster 63CONTENTS Poisoned wounds • - 0 Page Sutures g4 Interrupted suture g5 Quilled suture ib Rejection of sutures gg CHAPTER XV. Process by which the wound is united gs * i* *' ... • * i * CHAPTER XVI. Punctured wounds gg Treatment CHAPTER XVII. Lacerated and contused wounds....... ^4 Treatment ib. CHAPTER XVIII. Granulations and cicatrization yg Growth of new skin over granulations.. .; ; 79 . . CHAPTER XIX. Gunshot wounds i 81 Kind of body projected ib, Velocity of the projected body 82 Nature and peculiarities of the parts injured ib. Of circumstances influencing the course of balls. . 83 • Of gunshot contusions . . .; ib, Extraneous bodies usually lodged in gunshot wounds 84 Treatment of gunshot wounds 85 Dilatation of gunshot wounds ; extraction of foreign bodies.. . .• 87 Dressings for gunshot wounds; constitutional treatment ..: ’ g 1 Of what is to be done when a cannon ball has torn off a limb * ib. CHAPTER XX.36u£ CONTENTS. 4. Ulcers with specific action 131 Page Stings of insect? 94 Bite of the viper ib. Treatment—local 9@ Constitutional 97 Bite of a mad dog—hydrophobia 98 Symptoms of hydrophobia ib. Melancholy stage 99 Raving stage • ib. Treatment of hydrophobia 100 OHAPTER XXI. Affections of the nervous and muscular symptoms, and materia vita, in consequence of wounds 101 Tetanus 103 Symptofns of.'. 104 Varieties of 105 Treatment of ib. CHAPTER XXII. Contusions 108 Treatment , 109 CHAPTER XXIII. Polypi 110 Treatment of the fleshy polypus of the nose 112 Extraction ib. Ligature 118 Cautery 119 Cutting instruments 120 Polypi of the uterus '.. 121 » CHAPTER XXIV. Ulcers 126 ^ 1. Healthy ulcers 126 2. Irritable ulcers .' 127 3. Indolent ulcers 129xiv CONTENTS. CHAPTER XXV. Encysted tumours ; 133 CHAPTER XXVI. Sarcomatous tumours 135 1. Common vascular sarcoma ib. 2. Adipose sarcoma 136 3. Pancreatic sarcoma ib. 4. Cystic sarcoma 137 5. Mammary sarcoma ib- 6. Tuberculated sarcoma 138 7. Medullary sarcoma ib. Of the growth of sarcomatous tumours, and of chronic inflammation 13<J Treatment of sarcomatous tumours 141 r ..... , . . CHAPTER XXVII. Scirrhus, or cancer before ulceration ;. 142 Characters by which scirrhus may be distinguished from other diseases 143 Of cancer in the state of ulceration 145 Treatment of scirrhus and ulcerated cancer ib. CHAPTER XXVIII. Ganglions 147 Treatment 148 • * • ... * . . \ f . CHAPTER XXIX. ■ . .......... Aneurisms .., 148 Treatmeat 153 CHAPTER XXX. f Varicose veins. 15g Hemorrhoids 161 Treatment 162 CHAPTER XXXI. • » . r • . 1 iWarts and corns 163Xr CONTENTS.; Page CHAPTER XXXII. Fungus hcematodes, or spongoid inflammation ............ 166 • / / ' t CHAPTER XXXIII. Scrophula General remarks on the treatment .. • 1 /O CHAPTER XXXIV- Ccw pox • ^ * Progress after inoculation *71 CHAPTER XXXV. Venereal disease Chancres • ••• Treatment of chancres Buboes Treatment of buboes Lues venerea » Venereal eruptions Nodes Venereal ophthalmy V enereal ulcers in consequence Treatment of lues venerea of lues venerea ..ib. ib. CHAPTER XXXVI. White swellings, and other affections of the joints 185 Treatment of white swellings 189 Disease of the hip joint I89 Treatment iy2 Cartilaginous substances in the joints 193 Treatment ib. I Operation 194 Hydrops articuli lg<5 Treatment ib. CHAPTER XXXVII. Several diseases of the bones 196CONTENTS. CHAPTER IV. &vi Spina ventosa Necrosis, exfoliations, Ac, Treatment Mollifies ossium. Fragilitas ossium Rickets CHAPTER XXXVIII. Fractures t... . Simple fractures Process by which fractures are united General principles in the treatment of fractures CHAPTER XXXIX. Compound fractures CHAPTER XL. Dislocations Page 196 197 1()8 ib. 199 ib. 200 ib, 201 202 205 20f> PART II. PARTICULAR SURGICAL SUBJECTS. Injuries of the head. . CHAPTER I. Superficial injuries I'ractures of the cranium m* Pressure on the brain from extravasation Pressure on the brain.from matter .. Concussion Phrenitis . Operation ot trephining % Hernia cerebri ... CHAPTER II. \ ■ Tinea' capitis CHAPTER III. Wounds of the face ..CONTENTS. xv ii Page CHAPTER V. oy>Q Salk ary fistula • CHAPTER VI. , 230 CHAPTER VII. Cancerous diseases of the lip CHAPTER VIII. Diseases of the antrum • 234 CHAPTER IX. 'Noli me tangere ^3/ CHAPTER X. Fistula lachrymails 239 Treatment 240 CHAPTER XI. Diseases of the eyelids 243 Inflammation of the eyeiids, or psorophthalmy .. ib. Lippitudo ib. Purulent eyes of infants 244 Concretions of the eyelids 245 Ectropium ib. Trichiasis 247 Ptosis 248 Lagophthalmuis hare-eye 24Q Hordeolum, or stye .. 250 Encysted tumours of the eyelids ib. CHAPTER XII. Ophthalmy 251 Symptoms — .*» ib. Causes 253 Treatment of acute ophthalmy ib. Purulent ophthalmy in adult subjects 256 Treatment ib. Chronic ophthalmy 257 Causes 258 Scrophulous ophthalmy ib, Chwnic ophthalmy from small pox 250 Venereal ophthalmy ib.CONTENTS. xviii CHAPTER XIII. Opacities and ulcers of the cornea Treatment of the nebula Albugo and leucoma Ulcers of the cornea Treatment of ulcers of the cornea CHAPTER XIV. Of the pterygium and encanthis Treatment of the pterygium Encanthis .. Treatment CHAPTER XV. Staphyloma; prolapsus of the iris; closure of the pupil .. .. 1. Staphyloma 2. Treatment 3. Prolapsus of the iris . Treatment Closure of the pupil • .. Pagft 260 261 ib. 262 263 265 267 263 26g 269 ib. 270 271 ib. 273 CHAPTER xvr: Hypopium, dropsy of the eye, cancer, and extirpation of the W 274 Hypopium ib. Treatment 2/5 Dropsy of the eye 276 Treatment 277 Oaocer he eye 2/8 Extirpation of the eye O/Q CHAPTER XVII. Guttd serena, or amaurosis • 280 Symptoms, varieties, &c 2S1 Treatment.. 283 CHAPTER XVIII. Cataract 28/ Symptoms, progress of the disease, kc. ib. Causes, kc 28 y Treatment 200 Ixi x. CONTENTS. Pagr Description of couching Description of the extraction of the cataract ..... 2Q4- CHAPTER XIX. Ranula 297 CHAPTER XX. DivisioJi oj trie juznuni unguez CHAPTER XXI. 301 Diseases oj the tongue CHAPTER XXII. 1 303 Diseases oj the tonsils ana uiiuu CHAPTER XXIII. 306 rp outlets of ttie JlCC/C • * ib. 30S vv ouiiCis or liic lictciicci • • * 310 CHAPTER XXIV. 312 foreign ooaits in me * • CHAPTER XXV. 316 CHAPTER XXVI. 313 CHAPTER XXVII. 321 CHAPTER XXVIII. 324 V 320 323 Extravasation or :1c od in the thorax 332 Treatment ...... CHAPTER XXIX. Paracentesis thoracis , 333CONTENTS, XX \ CHAPTER XXX. Page Removal of a diseased breast, and tumours in general 335 CHAPTER XXXI. Wounds of the abdomen Superficial wounds ^ Penetrating wounds ... 34 Protrusion of tire viscera . _ 343 Gastroraphe Extravasation in the abdomen ... 0 a-, 1 reatment . ’ v J50 Wounds of the intestines .. - 352 CHAPTER XXXII. Psoas abscess „ „ _ 358 Treatment • CHAPTER XXXIII. Paracentesis abdominis . 0qj CHAPTER XXXIV. Herni* V. 363 Symptoms of a strangulated hernia . 367 Causes of herniae 3gg Treatment of a strangulated hernia, before having recourse to an operation Bubonocele „ 375 Diseases most liable to be mistaken for a bubono- cele 1 ••••• 370 Mortification of the intestine 330 Treatment #. jgj Femoral hernia jb. Operation ; . ;b. Umbilical hernia 384 Congenital hernia 336 ' Treatment 397 Hernia of the bladder jb. Treatment 383 CHAPTER XXXV. Hydrocele .' 389 Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalia r symptoms.... 3 39CONTENTS. xxi Page Treatment 5 palliative cure *■ 3gO Radical cure 39x Setoa • ••• •' . Caustic... . Incision .. ^9^ Injection.. — Hydrocele"of the spermatic cord 393 Encysted hydrocele of this part 3g4 CHAPTER XXXVI. Hccmatocele 395 Treatment 3g6 CHAPTER XXXVII. Diseases of the testicle . 3Q7 CHAPTER XXXyill. Castration 400 CHAPTER XXXIX. Circocele and varicocele 402 Treatment of circocele 403 CHAPTER XL. Hernia humor alts, or inflamed testicle 404 CHAPTER XLI. Cancer, scroti, or chimney sweeper's cancer 405 Treatment 407 CHAPTER XLII. Gonorrhoea 408 Of the power of the matter of gonorrhaea to com- municate the venereal disease 410 Treatment 412 CHAPTER XLIIt. Gleet, chorclee, sympathetic buboes, bladder affected in go- norrhea 413 Treatment of a gleet 414 Chordee.—Treatment 445 Sympathetic bubo 415 Treatment 4jq Bladder affected in gonorrhoea 4lQCONTENTS. xxfi CHAPTER XL1V. *°6t Pkymosis and paraphymosis 41^- Treatment of phymosis 4^g Operation for phymosis 4^ Treatment of the paraphymosis 420 CHAPTER XLV. Amputation of the penis 42 j CHAPTER XLVI. Strictures of the urethra 422 Symptom's of strictures . . 423 Method of using the common bougie 430 Method of using caustic bougies 431 Ot a new passage 435 CHAPTER XLVII. Fistula; in peritao.... 437 Treatment ;• 433 CHAPTER XLVIII. Retention of urine 440 Retention of urine from paralysis of the bladder .. 442 Catheter 445 Inflammatory and spasmodic retention of urine.. .. 44Q CHAPTER XLIX. Puncturing the bladder 451 Of the puncture above the pubis 452 Of the puncture through the rectum 453 CHAPTER L. Incontinence of urine ........ .. ... 436 CHAPTER LI. Imperforated vagina 45$ CAAPTER LII. Imperforated anus 460 CHAPTER LII. Fistula in ana 463 Treatment. 464 CHAPTER LIV. Prolapsus ani 467 CHAPTER LV. Prolapsus uteri 471CONTENTS, xxiii Page CHAPTER LVI. Jnversio uteri. ....<»«•••«• ••• 474 CHAPTER LVII Retroversio uteri 4/5 CHAPTER LVIII. Lithotomy Lateral operation 480 CHAPTER LIX. Spina Bifida 487 CHAPTER LX. Diseased vertebra 4Q0 Treatment 4g2 CHAPTER LXI. imputation - 405 Amputation of the thigh ib. Amputation below the knee SOI Amputation of the arm 502 Amputation of the forearm 504 Amputation of the shoulder joint ib. Amputation of the fingers and toes 505 CHAPTER LXII. Paronychia, or whitlow 5C7 CHAPTER LXIII. Venesection : occasional ill consequences 50Q Ecchymosis 512 Inflammation of the integuments and cellular sub- stance 512 Inflammation of the absorbents 513 Inflammation of the vein ib. Inflammation of the fascia 514 Wound of a nerve . 515 CHAPTER LXIV. Particular fractures 516 Fracture of the ossa nasi 516 Fracture of the lower jaw 517 Fracture of the clavicle 529 Fractures of the scapula 521 Fractures of the sternum... 523contents. XX iv Fractures of the ribs Fractures of the vertebra; Fj actures of the os sacruiHj and, os coccygis P'ractures of the os innominatum ..... Fractures of the os brachii Fractures of the forearm .. - Fracture of the olecranon Fractuies of the metacarpal bones and fingers Fractures of the thigh Treatment of fractured thighs Fracture of the patella Treatment Fractures of the leg CHAPTER LXV. Particular dislocations Dislocation of the lower jaw Dislocation of the head .. .. Dislocation of the vertebrae Dislocation of the os coccygis Dislocation of the ribs Dislocation of the clavicle....„ Dislocation of the os brachi Dislocation of the elbow Dislocations of the wrist * • • • • • Dislocations of the thigh bone .-. Dislocations of the knee ; Dislocations of the ankle Page . 523 . 525 525 . 520 ib. 528 . 52g ib. 530 533 535 ib. 537 540 540 £41 543 543 544 545 540 54Q ib. 550 553 ib. D ireclions to the Binder for placing the Plates. Plate I. to face Page 56 Plate II. - - - 124 Plate III. - - 224 Plate IV: - - - 239 Plate V. - - . 260 Pijite VI. • - 291 Plate VII. - - - 306 Plate VIII. - - m - 385 Piate IX.. - - 533* /THE FIRST LINES OF THS PRACTICE OF SURGERY. PART I GENERAL SURGICAL SUBJECTS* CHAP. I. INFLAMMATION. EVERY surgeon, who is desirous of shining in his pro- fession, should endeavour to make himself acquainted with the nature of inflammation. Indeed, this is naturally the first subject fot consideration, as local inflammation is so frequent an occurrence, that there are few chirurgical diseases, in which it is not concerned, as a cause, a symp- tom, or a consequence. It is either acute, or chronic; simple, or complicated with disease. Acute, healthy inflammation is often term- ed phlegmon. The morbid inflammations arc as numer- ous as diseases themselves; erysipelatous, venereal, scro- phulous, &c. &c. The symptoms of phlegmon are preternatural redness, increased heat, and a circumscribed, throbbing, painful tumefaction of the inflamed part. The increased redness arises from the dilatation of the small vessels, which become sufficiently capacious to ad- mit the red globules in large quantities. It may also partly depend, in some instances, on the generation of new «2 FIRST LINES OF THE vessels. The swelling seems l-eferrible : 1. To the dilata- tion of the vessels ; 2. To the plethoric state of the ar- teries and veins ; 3. To the exudation of coagulating lymph into the interstices of the cellular subtance.; 4. To the interruption of absorption. (See Soemmering de morb. vasor. absorb.) With regard 'to the augmentation ot heat in inflammation,- it appears from Hunter’s experi- ments, that the temperature of the part affected is not raised nearly so hig'h as one might suppose from an abs- tract consideration of the patient’s feelings. Let us re- membci, that the sensibility of the nerves is augmented, and we shall no longer be surprised, that they should con- vey to the sensorium false impressions. It is more easy to conceive, than describe, how any deviation from the na- tuial state of parts must excite pain. It is the unusual condition, into which the nerves are thrown, which is to be regarded as the proximate cause. In chronic inflam- mation the gradually cf the change allows the nerve* to become adapted to it, and the degree of pain only amounts to a dull, uneasy sensation ; but, as in phlegmon, the change is quick, the pain is considerable. The throbbing manifestly depends on the strong pulsation of the arteries. CAUSES. I he remote, or occasional causes are exceedingly nu- merous ; but, as they mostly rank in the class of external violence from mechanical, or chemical means, no particu- lar detail of them seems necessary. The irritation of fe- vers would often appear to be a remote cause. The idea, however, that the inflammation, thus occasioned, is cri- tical, or in any way conducive to the cure of the consti- tutional disorder, does not seem to be established on a tenable basis. Sometimes inflammation arises spontane- ously, or to speak more correctly, no perceptible cause can be assigned for it. T he proximate cause has been the subject of much VW*PRACTICE OF. SURGERY. 3 successful disquisition. Galen, who attributed disease in general to certain humours fn the system, referred phleg- mon to a superabundance of the humor sanguineus. Boer- haave ascribed the proximate cause to an obstruc- tion in the small vessels, occasioned by a viscosity, or lentor of the blood. Cullen, and others of the modern school, with more reason refer it rather to an affection of the vessels, than a change of the fluids. AV ere we to sup- pose the state of the whole mass of the blood to be the cause, why should inflammation be confined to any particular situation ? In inflammation a larger quantity of blood is impelled into the part affected, than in the natural state. If an incision be made into an inflamed part, the blood would gush from the wound more profusely and vehement- ly than at another period. This circumstance cannot arise from any peculiarity in the action of the heart, an organ that drives the blood equally into the whole arterial sys- tem. The arteries are not mere mechanical tubes for the transmission of the blood to the various parts of the body ; they possess, besides their elasticity, a vital power of ac- tion, arising from their muscular structure. It is impossi- ble to explain rationally the augmented flow of blood through an inflamed part, except we regard it as the ef- fect of an increased dilatation, and a more powerful con- traction of such arteries, as lead and are distributed to the seat of the inflammation. It is this increased action oj the vessels, that is generally considered in modem times as the proximate cause in question. Further Remarks connected icith the Subject. It has been the fashion to dwell too much on the exist- ence of a spasmodic constriction of the minute extremi- ties of the vessels in phlegmonous inflammation. Does not the extravasation of lymph, contradict this hypothesis ? Is not the visible enlargement of those vessels, is not the increased current of blood through the inflamed part, con- tradictory of this opinion ? If we examine the ground, ou ,FIRST LINES OF THE 4 which the doctrine rests, we shall find, that the suppres- sion of secretion forms the chief argument in its support. But, in mild inflammations of secreting parts and sur- faces, the secretion is generally augmented. In violent cases alone secretion is stopped, and we must infer that there is then a constriction of those minute extre- mities of the vessels, which are concerned in that pro- cess. There is not the smallest evidence, however, in any cases, that such a constriction ever affects, either the venous extremities of the arteries, or those, whicli are destined to deposit the new matter of the body. A very striking circumstance, attending phlegmonous and other inflammations, wheresoever situated, is their be- ing always most violent on the side next to the external surface of the body. If inflammation invade the socket of a tooth, it chiefly takes place towards the cheek, and not on the inside of the alveolary process. The situation, position, structure, functions, and dis- tance of the part affected from the source of the circulation, cause considerable variety in the progress, and termina- tion of all inflammation. Parts that enjoy a vigorous circulation of blood through them, can bear inflammation better, than others oppo- sitely circumstanced. But, vital parts, though exceed- ingly vascular, do not undergo inflammation favourably ; because, as Hunter remarks, the natural operations of uni- versal health, depend so much on their sound condition. The depending position of a part seems to have a bad effect on inflammation, probably by retarding the return of blood. New-formed parts possess less vitality, than such as constitute a portion of the original fabric of the body, and, consequently, they are very liable to be absorbed, or mor- tify, when inflamed. During the existence of inflammation, blood taken away by the lancet, has a particular appearance on its surface, IPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 5 termed the huffy coat, or inflammatory crust. This con* sists of a stratum of coagulating lymph, almost destitute of red globules. The buffy coat is a greater criterion o the existence of inflammation, than even the state of the pulse itself. It is to be remembered, however, that there are a few anomalous constitutions, in which this appear- ance is always found. The blood taken from pregnant women has also the inflammatory oust. TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. Removal of the Cause. From the foregoing account of inflammation, it is obvi- ously the primary indication to lessen that immoderate action of the arteries, to which the symptoms and effects are attributable. Whatsoever forms the remote cause, ought manifestly to be removed. If the irritation of a splinter should excite phlegmonous inflammation, who would not of his owm accord extract the extraneous sub- stance ? But, the removal of the stimulus, exciting the process, will not put an immediate stop to it; for, the living solids seem to be endued with a sort of re-action. Hence, besides taking away (if possible) the occasional cause, it is proper to moderate by other means the increased vascular action. BLEEDING. We have noticed, that one principal effect of the in- creased action, is the transmission of a larger quantity of blood through the inflamed part. The propriety of endea- vouring to diminish the flux of blood to the part in most cases, cannot therefore be doubted. The chief mode of accomplishing this object is by general, and topical bleed- ing. General bleeding is not so universally requisite as topical. Inflammation is a local affection, and must, therefore, particularly demand local curative means. But, when inflammation is situated in a part of such greatFIRST LINES OF THE 6 importance, that it cannot undergo a certain degree of disturbance, without endangering life itself, \vc must not be content with local measures alone. Thus when the brain is inflamed, the affection must be speedily subdued, or death will happen. Also, when the inflamed parts are endued wi(h infe- rior powers ol recovery, it is often necessary to have recourse to general, as well as topical bleeding ; as in in- flammation of a joint. ^Vhen inflammation is situated in an organ, Avhere suppuration would inevitably destroy its uses, it is also advisable to moderate the local affection, even at the expence of the whole system. Ophthalmy is a case of this kind. Breeding is quite improper, when the inflammation and fever are trivial; when the patient is very feeble, or a°"ed * #nd when the cause of the affection can be entirely removed. The efficacy of bleeding is greater, the sooner it is prac- tised, and the more suddenly the blood is evacuated. Bleeding near the part affected is usually more effectual, than in a remote situation. Topical bleeding can only prove powerfully efficacious, when general plethora has been previously removed ; but, if no plethora, nor much fever should exist, it may have immense effect. purging. Mild purgatives of the saline kind, not only diminish the quantity of the circulating blood, by the increased secretion, which they .occasion in the alimentary canal, they also operate specifically in lowering all the operations of the system, and must therefore tend to subdue inflam- mation. As they have not so debilitating an effect as bleeding, they are seldom omitted, even when the evacu- ation of blood is judged dispensable. Natron vilriolatum, magnesia vitriolata, <!y soda phosphor at a, are the most proper. It most frequently happens, that the stomach and bowels of patients, who are affected with inflamma-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 3 flons, are in a foul state, and, in such instances, purga- tives, and even emetics, must operate with peculiar be- nefit. ANTIMON1ALS. The employment of nauseating doses of antim. tartariz- atum, proves advantageous in two ways: it relieves that oppressive dryness of the skin, which accompanies the fever attendant on severe local inflammation ; it diminishes the increased action of the vessels of the inflamed part. Whenever nausea is produced, the sympathy oi the vihole constitution with the stomach is so intimate, that it is im- mediately thrown into a temporary state oi debility, cvciy considerable operation in the machine becoming lowered, and, among others, the process of inflammation. hen there is particular reason for putting a sudden check to inflammation, the use of antimonials ought never to b<^ neglected. OPIUM. I The practitioners of this country, considering opium as a strong stimulant, seldom employ it in cases of in- flammation, except when the severity of the pain is ex- cessive. DIET. The patient should invariably abstain from fermented and spirituous liquors, and when the inflammation is, extensive, or vehement, he should also dispense with animal food. Neglect to observe the antiphlogistic regimen, fre- quently renders the whole plan oi treatment abortive. COED .APPLICATIONS. Ileat naturally promotes all animal actions, and in this view, it cannot fail to act injuriously in inflammation. Hence arises the indication to diminish the heat of the part affected by making use of cold topical applications, and maintaining a continual evaporation from the inflamed surface.FIRST LINES OF THE S The lotions employed for this purpose, are commonly of -an astringent and sedative nature. As the acetite of lead possesses both these qualities, a solution of it is most fre-; quently used. A solution of ffs. of this salt in ^iv. of vine- gar, and Ifeij. of distilled water, is a very good application. When the aq. litharg. acet. is employed, 3j. to a pint of water is the due proportion. Such surgeons as are fearful of the deleterious effects, that have been known to arise from the absorption of lead, make use of a solution of 3j. of zincum vitriolatum in ifej of water. Linen, kept constantly wet with these lotions, are to be applied to the part affected. Astringent and sedative lotions are the most proper in the majority of phlegmonous inflammations. It may be questioned, whether the lead, usually contained in them, has the power of acting on the vascular structure of the part affected ? for, unless we admit this, it becomes ex- ceedingly dithcult to explain how it is beneficial in sub- duing inflammations. If we could rationally make out that astringents have the power of producing a diminution of the dilated arteries, with which they arc not actually in contact, we should then be able to account for their effica- cy. Also, were it in our power to prove, what appears highly probable, that the vessels beneath the surface of the body sympathize with that surface in which astringents do evidently produce corrugation, we might then satisfac- torily explain their modus operandi in cases of phlegmon. At present, I believe, we must rest contented with what is apparently a fact, that astringent sedative applications made to the surface of the body, do operate on the pro- cess of inflammation beneath. What renders it still more probable that astringents and sedatives affect the vascular action in inflammation, is the power which many external applications have of exciting the action of the absorbents. I have mentioned that in inflammation there is an impediment to absorption. HowPRACTICE OF SURGERY. t useful, therefore, must the employment of external dis- cutient applications prove in cases where the extravasation of blood and lymph into.the interstices of the inflamed part, is exceedingly copious; hence, lotions containing sal ammoniac, in inflammations arising from contusions, concussions, and sprains, are generally more efficacious, than astringents and emollients. In such cases, when the inflammation is slight, and the swelling and extravasation considerable, even embrocations and liniments are prefer- able to any kind of lotion . One of the best discutient lotions is what is employed at St. Bartholomew’s hospital: R. ammon. muriatae ?fs. aceU et spirit, vin. rectif. sing. foj. M. Another very good one is composed of aq. ammon. acet. alone, or mixed with equal parts of spirits of wine, and distilled water. WARM APPLICATIONS. It is curious thaf inflammations should sometimes be be- nefited by cold local applications, and sometimes by warm emollient poultices and fomentations. As practice suffi- ciently confirms the truth of the observation, and theory might lead us into hypothesis, I conceive it will be no loss to the reader to omit all speculations on the subject. Al- though in the generality of cases cold astringent lotions are preferable to warm applications, yet it sometimes hap- pens that they do not have their usual good effect, either from the singularity of the patient’s constitution, or from the structure and situation of the inflamed part. Tne swelled testicle and the incipient stage ot acute ophthalniy receive more benefit from emollient fomentations and poul- tices, than from astringents. Inflammations, not admit- ting of a cure without suppuration, must be treated witli emollients, for the sooner the matter is formed the sooner the inflammation ends. The inflammation attending con- tused wounds, and the boil, is of this sort. That origi-}0 FIRST LINES OF TIIE Bating m fevers generally proceeds to suppuration, and ought to be treated on the emollient plan. The best emollient poultice is that made oflinseed meal. It is made by gradually mixing the powder with hot water until the consistence is such as it ought to be. A little oil is often added, which prevents the application from dry- ing and becoming hard. A very good emollient fomentation is that used at St. Bartholomew’s hospital : ft lini contusi^j. chamcemeli £ij. aqure distil, fevj. paulisper coque et cola. When the pain is exceedingly severe, the following fomentation, in use at Guy’s hospital, often produces great relief: ft pa- paveris albi exsiccati|iv. aqua: pura ibvj. coque usque re- jnanearrt ifeij. et cola. terminations of inflammation. Inflammation has three different terminations; or, to speak more correctly, after this process has continued a certain time, it either subsides entirely, induces a disposi- tion in the vessels to form pus, or completely destroys the vitalifyof the part. Ulceration is also an eflect sometimes directly produced by phlegmonous inflammation; but it luore frequently does not commence till suppuration has rendered it neces- sary. FIRST. RESOLUTION. The most common way iu which inflammation ends con- sists in a gradual abatement of the pain, redness, swell- ing, throbbing, and heat of the part, without any for- mation of matter, or permanent injury of structure. This is termed resolution, and is the best manner in which in-, » flammation can possibly end. SECOND.—SUPPURATION. The next most frequent termination of phlegmon is in the production of pus, termed suppuration; a state, inPRACTICE OF SURGERY. if whicli there is rather a modification of the increased ac- tion, than a cessation of it. THIRD.—MORTIFICATION. The other manner in which inflammation ends is in Ihe death of the part affected. This is the worst, but hap- pily the least frequent result of common inflammation. Every psJrt just recovered from the violence of phlegm- onous and other kinds of inflammation, may be regarded as still imperfect. Its vessels seem to have become weak in proportion as they have been previously excited to extra- ordinary action, and every part affected with vascular weakness has a great tendency to fresh inflammation. Sometimes, in consequence of the loss of tone, induced in the vessels by the vehemence of acute inflammation, a languid or chronic inflammation succeeds, which it is very difficult to overcome ; hence, however improper stimu- lants, astringents, and corroborants may be, as local ap- plications, during the violence of phlegmonous inflamma- tion in many situations, they are generally highly proper the moment that stage ceases. Thus emollients, which for the first few days are serviceable in acute ophthalmy, act afterwards prejudicially, in consequence of their re- laxing nature. CHAP. II. SYMPTOMATIC INFLAMMATORY FEVER. i AFTER being informed that the mass of circulating blood becomes affected in cases of inflammation, we must expect to find traces of constitutional as well as of local disturbance. In fact, we have already repeatedly men-12 first lines of the tioned the fever attendant on inflammation, and some par- ticular account of it is now proper. Its name is derived from its being as it were one of the symptoms of the local disorder, and the sympathy of the whole constitution for the disturbed state of a part. SYMPTOMS AND VARIETIES. The symptoms are: a frequent, strong, and full pulse; diminution of the secret ions ; a hot dry state of the skin ; scanty high-coloured urine ; dry furred tongue ; thirst; disturbance of the nervous system ; loss of appetite and sleep ; in some cases delirium. The effects of inflammation on the constitution are not simply proportioned to the quantity of inflammation; they are influenced as much by the nature of the parts in which it is situated, as by its extent. When muscles, cellular membrane, skin, &c. are in- flamed, the pulse is strong and full. If the inflammation be in tendinous, ligamentous, or bony parts, the stdmack sympathizes more, than when muscles, &c. are inflamed. The pulse is quicker, but has eo( so much fulness, and the blood, not being propelled so far into the small vessels, forsakes the skin. When inflammation is in vital parts, or such as sympa- thize with the stomach, there is great depression blended with the constitutional symptoms, the pulse is frequent and small, and the blood is not pushed into the mi- nute vessels. When the constitution is good, and parts not very es- sential to life are inflamed, the pulse becomes increased in strength and fulness. When the same parts are affected in weak irritable persons, and in women who lead seden- tary lives, the pulse is quick, hard, and small, at the com- mencement of the inflammation, just as if vital parts were concerned.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. TREATMENT OF THE SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATORY fever. As the cause of the sympathetic inflammatory fever is the local inflammation, it is obvious, that while we are endeavouring to cure the latter, we are taking the most effectual steps for the relief of the constitutional disorder. But as excessive febrile disturbance may in its turn have a bad effect on the local complaint, it is sometimes proper to endeavour to palliate the constitutional symp- toms by having recourse to such means, as might not be necessary were the inflammation not aggravated by the fever. The frequency, strength, and fulness of the pulse may be diminished by the use of the lancet, the exhibition of saline purgatives, and of such medicines as nitre and sal ammoniac. Bleeding, however, is hardly ever necessary on account of the fever itself, consequently it is never prac- tised with a viewjof altering the state of the pulse, except in cases where the local inflammation is important on account of its extent or situation ; and when the increased action of the whole sanguiferous system might seriously exaspe- rate the local mischief. Here also we should probably use the lancet, on account of the inflammation, were it pos- sible to have at the same time a fever ever so inconsi- derable. In short, if the inflammation should not require bleed- ing, it can never be requisite for the fever, which invariably subsides with the local disturbance. The diminished secretions are to be promoted, and a gentle diaphoresis ought, in particular, to be excited. An * timony is the best medicine for this purpose. When this mineral will not remain in the stomach, the aqua, amiuon. aeet, is an excellent substitute.FIRST LINES OF THE u CHAP. III. ✓ ' •’ k ; SUPPURATION. WHEN, notwithstanding the foregoing1 treatment, the inflammation becomes attended with more severe pain, a much harder tumefaction, and a conical prominence in its centre, suppuration is likely to ensue. Sometimes this event may from the first be prognosti- cated ; for some inflammations, from their peculiar nature, necessarily terminate in suppuration. * SYMPTOMS. "Yfy hen the patient is seized with reiterated shiverings ; when the fever and all the symptoms of inflammation suddenly cease, without any perceptible reason ; when the patient experiences a heavy, cold, dull uneasiness, instead of acute pain, in the part affected ; when the most ele- vated part of the tumour appears soft, and white, while the rest has its redness increased; and vdren, at the same time, the surgeon can feel the fluctuation of a fluid, matter is undoubtedly already formed. The latter symptoms only occur, when the matter lies superficially. In other cases, the quick subsidence of all the inflammatory symptoms, the repeated rigors, and the sense of weight and coldness, only afford grounds for suspecting thq.t matter is formed. This suspicion, how- cver, is afterwards strengthened by the patient having nocturnal sweats, with emaciation, and other hectic symp- toms. Also, an cedematous swelling, at first not very extensive, takes place over the situation of the abscess, and expands afterwards so as to extend over a whole mem* 2PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 15 ber. These circumstances leave no doubt of there being; a hidden collection of matter. A man, endued with great nicety of touch, can often feel the undulations of matter, even when deeply lodged. theory op suppuration. The exposure of the internal surfaces and structure of the body, continued for a certain time, necessarily occa- sions suppuration. Here the influence of the air is not the cause ; for, were a wound to be made into a cavity naturally closed, pus would be formed, after a certain time, even in a vacuum. When matter forms in circum- scribed cavities without a wound, the air cannot be sus- pected as a cause : nor docs the air, in emphysematous cases, excite suppuration. The Sympathetic fever, attendant on inflammation, has been considered an essential step to suppuration ; but with little foundation. Is there not a regular secretion of pus from the most indolent ulcers ? Is there not the same pro- cess on every blistered surface ? In such cases, is there not oftentimes a total absence of fever ? That dead animal matter cannot be converted into pus, is proved by sloughs of the cellular membrane, tendons, fascia;, &c. &c. remaining unchanged in abscesses a con- siderable time, and by dead bone lying unaltered in pus for many months. Whatever diminution of these sub- stances may, under such circumstances, happen, occurs only on that side, which is next to the living solids, and can be satisfactorily accounted for on the principle of absorption. The idea that fermentation contributes to the formation of pus, is quite destitute of foundation. The discharge of pus from secreting surfaces, without any loss of sub- stance ; the stationary state of many abscesses ; the back- wardness of matter to become putrid, while unexposed to the air; sufficiently evince, that no fermenting power is present.16 FIRST LINES OF THE The opinion, that extravasated blood can in time be* come converted into pus, is equally erroneous. When suppuration is about to take place in the cellular substance, or membranes of circumscribed cavities, the vessels alter their mode of action, sd as to secrete pus. This change happens gradually. Hence* pus and coagu- lating lymph are often found blended together in the same abscess. The fact, that pus may be formed without a breach of the solids, or dissolution of parts, was first noticed by Dr. Hunter, in 1749, or 50, in the dissection of a subject who died of empyema. M. Quesnay has inserted, in the Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery, a case which fell under the observation of M. Peyronie, in •which a very copious suppuration of the brain took place. The patient died, and the head was examined. The proportion of brain wanting was so trivial, com- pared with the quantity of pus that had been pro- duced, that Peyronie justly concluded, the matter had not been formed from the solids, but from the fluids of the part. The modern doctrine of suppuration is, that the pus is separated from the blood by the inexplicable operation of the secerning arteries, just as ordinary secretion takes place, and that the peculiar mode of action in the arteries, is the reason, why pus should be separated form the circulation, rather than coagulating lymph, mucus, &c. &c. It is further believed, that the solids never suffer any dissolution, so as to enter into the composition of pus, and that the deficiency, frequently apparent in them, arises from absorption. The arteries, in producing pus, a fluid so dissimilar from blood, and of which, at least, it must be considered as a new combination, seem to assume all. the power of glandular secretion.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 17 QUALITIES OF pus. Pus consists of globules swimming in a fluid, which dif- fers from every other animal secretion, in being coagula- ble by the muriate of ammonia. The colour, which is or- dinarily a light yellow, is imparted to pus by the glo- bules. The fluid part resembles serum, and like it, is coagulable by heat 5 but it cannot, like milk, be coagu- lated by the gastric juice of animals. Healthy pus has little smell, is void of acrimony, and is of the consistence ofcream, ilsglobulesareabundant, and of a lightish colour. When pure, it docs not readily putrify ; but this quality is lost, when there are extraneous additions blended with the matter. In specific diseases, cases of caries, &c. the matter is often mixed with blood, coagulating lymph, &c. and then it has more tendency to putriry and become offensive. Pus always partakes of the nature of the sore, which produces it. To the surface secreting it, pus is quite unirritating, though it may greatly irritate any other, lienee it is useless to wipe matter so completely from the surface of granulations, as some are wont to do; but it is highly proper to keep the surrounding skin free from it. When any disease attacks the suppurating surface, or the constitution, the pus becomes thinner, more transpa- rent, more disposed to putrify, and become fetid. Sanies is the term frequently given to pus in this degenerated state. Sanies may be very irritating to parts, so as to cause their absorption ; but it never has the power of corroding them. DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PTJS AND MUCUS. Secretions of another kind, sometimes, have a resem- blance to pus. The following circumstances form a line of distinction. Pus sinks in water ; mucus floats. Pus communicates to water an uniformly troubled white co- lour : mucus gives the appearance of stringy portions floating in it. Mucus is more readily dissolved by sulphu- v. c I]* first lines of the \ ric acid, than pus. If water be added to such solutions, the pus is precipitated to the bottom ; while the mucus, instead of being com lately precipitated, forms swimming flakes. A solution of caustic alkali dissolves both pus and mucus; but, when water is added, the pus becomes separated, but not the mucus. CYSTS OF ABSCESSCS. If there were not some boundary to au abscess, some partition between the pus and the cavities of the cellular substance, the matter would diffuse itself extensively on all sides, like the air in emphysema, or the water in, cedema. To prevent this circumstance, we find, that coagulating lymph is deposited immediately around the collection of matter; and becoming organized, assumes the appearance of a membranous cyst. In abscesses of long standing, the cysts arc often of very considerable thickness, while in other collections of matter, that have been sudden in their formation, /and have not existed, long, the surrounding lymph Iras scarcely had time to be converted into a vascular membranous cyst./ The cysts of all abscesses are both secreting, and absorbing surfaces. When the pus has been completely discharged by a punc- ture, the cavity soon becomes filled with pus again. Very large and palpable collections of matter are often observed to disappear entirely, and in a manner only to be explained by the action of the absorbents. Matter always tends to the surface of the body, making its way through a considerable .thickness of parts, in order to arrive there. Even when there is but a delicate mcm- Orand between the matter, and some internal cavity of the body, the abscess generally bursts externally,' though it may have to make its way through a considerable thick- ness of substance. Its progress is always aided by the relaxation of the skin, situated immediately over the ab- scess. The skin, in this situation, is always looser, thanPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 19 . when it yields to mere mechanical distension, unless the increase of the abscess be very rapid. As the matter advances towards the surface of the body, the intervening substance is absorbed. treatment of phlegmonous abscesses. The generality of phlegmonous abscesses soon burst, and seldom require opening. When punctured unne- cessarily, or prematurely, they never heal so favourably,, as when left to themselves. Particular cases, however, should be opened, as soon as the existence of matter is ascertained. Vt hen suppu- ration takes place beneath fasciae, which invariably retard the progress of the matter to the surface of the body, an early opening should be made. If this be not done, the matter spreads to a great extent, separating such ligament- ous expansions from the muscles, and the muscles i rom each other. Also, when the matter is sosituated as to be liable to insinuate itself into the chest, or abdomen, or into the capsular ligaments of joints, it is highly proper to prevent this extension of mischief, by making a timely opening into the abscess. OPENING ABSCESSES BV A CUTTING INSTRUMENT. There are two ways of opening abscesses ; 1. by a lancet; 2. by caustic. In almost all cases the lancet is pieferabl*?. It opens the abscess quickly, and with less pain ; it occa- sions no loss of substance, consequently a smaller cicatrix , and, by its employment, the opening may be made in the most advantageous direction, and of the exact size ne- cessary. The place where the puncture ought to be made, is where the fluctuation is most perceptible, or where the conical eminence, or, as it is termed, the pointing appears ; for, in this situation, the integuments are thinner, than elsewhere. » , c 2 \flRST LINES OF TIIE I It is also proper (o make the opening in a depending situation, if practicable, in order to allow the matter to escape as soon as it is formed. Collections of matter, beneath the fascias of the fore-arm and thigh, particularly demand attention to this direction, as they common* Iy point, where those ligamentous bands are naturally extenuated, not where the matter can most readily es- cape. When an abscess bursts spontaneously, the opening is not likely to heal, as long as it communicates with a cavity into which pus is secreted ; and consequently there is no occasion to take any measures to prevent its closing. But A\hen a collection of matter is deeply situated, and has been opened by an incision, the wound is very likely to close again, especially if not in a depending situation. In this case the surgeon must.take care to insinuate a piece of lint between the edges of thfe puncture, and he ought at every visit to introduce a probe through its track. Very large collections of matter require a small opening. When extensively opened, violent inflammation invades the cyst, and the constitution is thrown into the most se- vere and often fatal derangement. This subject will be better understood when the lumbar abscess has been consi- dered. Some abscesses do not heal, though .the matter may easily find its way out ; for their internal surfaces will not form granulations unless a complete denudation of them be made, and fresh inflammation be excited. Abscesses about the anus, axillae, groins, scrotum, and labia piule/t- dvnmiy are of this kind. It is true, however, that such cases arc often prevented from getting well by the cavity of the abscess not. having a very direct external communi- cation. The curved bistoury and director are the instruments generally used for enlarging the opening of an abscess.21 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. OPENING ABSCESSES BY CAUSTIC* The calx viva cum lcuU puro or the Jcali purum alone, is the best caustic for opening abscesses. The part is first to be covered with a piece of adhesive plaster, which has a portion cut out of the figure and size of the opening in* tended to be made in the abscess. The best way of ■making the eschar is to dip the end of the caustic in water, and to rub it on the part, till the skin becomes brown. The active substance is then to be immediately washed off with some wet tow, the plaster is to be removed, and an emollient poultice applied. This method of opening abscesses is very seldom war- rantable. If it be advantageous in any case, it is when there is a small collection of matter surrounded by a good deal of indolent hardness. Jt is much against the practice that it is impossible to prescribe any precise boundary to the action of the caustic, and that, unless the eschar be made sufficiently deep, the lancet must after all be used. Caustic also leaves behind a disagreeable scar, a consider- ation of considerable importance in abscesses about the necks and faces of females. The eschar is sometimes ten or twelve tedious days before its detachment happens. TOPICAL APPLICATIONS TO PHLEGMONOUS ABSCESSES. The best applications to phlegmonous abscesses are fo- mentations and poultices. While the skin covering (he collection of matter continues entire, they are the best dressings, because they favour the relaxation of the skin, and accelerate the progress of the matter to the surface of the body. When the abscess has been opened, or has spontaneously burst, they are the most proper applications; for they promote the continuance of suppuration, without which granulations cannot be produced to fill up the ca- vity. After inflammation has arrived at a certain pitch, cold2? FIRST LINES OF THE + *. f applications and continued evaporation from the part af- fected avail nothing; on the contrary, they seem io aug- jnent the pain, and they probably do so by preventing the relaxing process of the skin. All the changes of phlegm- onous inflammation are quick; if it is to terminate in re- solution, it will generally do so in about a week or ten days ; if it continue unabated beyond this period, suppu- ration maybe expected, and perseverance in the use of cold astringent lotions only prolongs the disorder, by re- tarding what cannot be avoided. V hen tiie abscess has completely formed ; when it has been opened, or has burst, so as to emi( daily a considera- ble discharge; and when the violence of the surrounding inflammation has abated; the patient must be allowed a more generous diet. Animal food, wine, and fermented li- quors, may now be given w ith advantage. When the dis- charge is so copious as to induce debility, attended, with loss of appetite, bark is to be administered. Opium may also now be given, either with a view of relieving the a«-- gravated pain that immediately precedes the formation of matter, or of procuring sleep. CHAP. IV. • ■■ i HECTIC FEVER. ITS NATURE AND SYMPTOMS. THE irritation of a local injury upon a healthy consti- tution produces that disordered state of the system, termed the symptomatic or sympathetic fever. This is the imme- diate. consequence of local irritation. The system, fatigued and debilitated by the continu- ance of a disease which it cannot subdue, at length loses the power of entering into those strong actions, which ac- lPRACTICE OF SURGERY. £3 company the inflammatory fever. However, exhausted as it becomes, it still sympathizes with the local irritation. 1 ie hedic fever, contrasted with the sympathetic inflammatory one, is to be regarded as the remote consequence of local injury or disease. . . . Tlie symptoms are : a frequent, small pulse.; moist skm , pale, copious urine, with sediment ; debility ; the tongue is generally moist; the appetite foils; all aliment is tre- quently rejected from the stomach ; there is a great readi- ness to be thrown into sweats ; and at night the patient perspires in bed ; he has frequently a constitutional pur- ging, and is occasionally troubled with chills and flushes of heat. The nervous system is deranged : loss ot sleep ; indigestion ; flatulence. See. Hunter has distinguished the hectic fever into that which arises from the absolute incurability of tlie local complaint, and into another species, which depends on a disease that is curable, if the patient’s constitution had powers sufficient. treatment of hectic fever. The exciting cause of every disease must be removed, ere much alleviation can be expected. If copious and 'long-continued suppuration give rise to that affection of the constitution, denominated hectic fever, how can the febrile disturbance cease as long as the discharge of matter continues? If the irritation ot a scrophulous joint excite hectic fever, we should in vain expect to calm the constitutional disorder, without diminishing the local cause. When the local complaint, connected with the fever, is totally incurable, it must, if possible, be removed by a manual operation. But when the local disease presents the prospect of being cured, provided the slate of the con- stitution were improved, the surgeon, in this case, is to endeavour to strengthen the patient. Discretion must be24 FIRST LTNfcS OF THE exercised in deciding liow long it. is safe to oppose the power of medical surgery to the influence of an obstinate local disease on the constitution. For, although patients in an abject state of weakness, arising from irremediable local disease, have oftentimes been restored to health by a removal of the morbid part, yet many have been suffered to sink so low that no future treatment could relieve them. Clemency in the practice of surgery docs not consist so much in withholding strong and vigorous measures, as in deeding to practise them the moment when they are indi- cated. A\ hen an incurable disease in an extremity is removed by amputation, the hectic fever immediately begins to abate. “ I have known,” says John Hunter, “ a hectic “ pulse at 120 sink to 90 in a few hours, upon the remo- val of the hectic cause; I have known persons sleep cc soundly the first night, without an opiate, who had not U slept tolerably for weeks before; I have known cold c‘ sweats stop immediately, as well as those called colli- “ quative ; I have known a purging stop immediately “ upon the removal of the hectic cause, and the urine drop its sediment.” Iam afiaid no medicine has the direct power of com- municating strength to the human constitution. To com- bat particular symptoms, and to promote digestion, is'all that can be done, ns long as efforts are made to cure the lo- cal disease, without removing it. Baik is a serviceable medicine in cases of hectic fe- ver, by increasing the appetite, and tone of the digestive organs. The infusion is more apt to agree with the sto- mach than the decoction. Nourishing food, easy of di- gestion, should he taken frequently, and in moderate quantities at a time. Gentle cordial, and aromatic draughts, often prove ex- ceedingly useful in these cases.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ** Here opium is also a valuable medicine, not only pro- curing sleep, and alleviating pain, but acting as one of the best remedies for checking the diarrhoea frequently present. CHAP. V. mortification. . / » WE have regarded inflammation as an increased action of the arteries concerned. If the part have sufficient powers to undergo the preternatural excitement, resolu- tion or suppuration is the result. But when the vehe- mence of the action is altogether disproportioned to the vital power of the inflamed part, or when its duration baa exhausted this power so much that the vessels can no longer act at all, mortification necessarily takes place. Some- times in this circumstance, ulceration supersedes the ne- cessity for mortification, by removing parts back into the system. SYMPTOMS.—TWO STAGES OF MORTIFICATION, &C. The symptoms of an incipient mortification are : First, a sudden diminution of the pain and sympathetic fever ; Secondly, a livid discolouration of the part, which, from being yellowish, becomes of a greenish hue ; Thirdly, de- tachment of the cuticle, under which a turbid fluid is ef- fused ; Fourthly, the swelling, tension, and hardness sub- side, and, on touching the part, a crepitus is perceptible, owing to the generation of air in the cellular substance. While the disease is in this stage it is termed gangrene. When the part has become quite black and fibrous, and destitute of motion, sensation, and natural heat, the dis- ease is then denominated sphacelus.FIRST LINES OF THE An unpleasant hiccough commonly attends (he occur- rence of gangrene and sphacelus. The blood coagulates in the large vessels leading to the mortified part, (or some distance from the slough, and this is the reason why the separation of a mortified limb is seldom followed by hemorrhage. When any part of the body mortifies, the constitution suffers immediately a considerable dejection. The patient’s countenance suddenly assumes a wild cadaverous look ; the pulse becomes small, rapid, and somet imes irregular; cold perspirations, diarrhoea, and even delirium occur. MORTIFICATION UNPRECEDED BY INFLAMMATION. Mortification often takes place unpreceded by inflam- mation. Impediment to the return of blood through the veins sometimes produces gangrene and sphacelus. In this case the bloodvessels become turgid, and the part swells, and becomes livid and very painfub Vesicles soon arise, and, at length, the part becomes soft, cedematous, em- physematous, cold, black, insensible, and fetid. A stran- gulated hernia affords an instance of such mortification. Impediment to the flow of arterial blood into a partis another cause of mortification. This case is at first at- tended with softness and coldness of the part, which loses its natural size, and becomes void of sensibility, shrivelled, black, and lifeless. Great general debility, extreme old age, and an ossified state of the arteries, frequently produce a species of morti- fication, different from that following inflammation. Pressure on any part of the body, especially when the constitution is weak, and the circulation languid, in con- sequence of sickness, and long confinement in bed, often occasions mortification. This frequently occurs in such cases as fractures, where the patient is necessitated tore- main a long time in the same posture. It attacks partsPRACTICE OF SURGERY: 27 where the bones are covered with little flesh, and, conse- quently, where the external pressure has most effect. Sloughs, produced in this way, frequently occur over the trochanter major, os sacrum, os ilium, scapula?, &c. The part affected becomes soft, lead-coloured, red at the cir- cumference, oedematous, and, at last, black and senseless. Violent concussions and contusions ; the application of heat, and long-continued cold; very otten occasion sloughing. ilut, tiie attention of the reader is particularly requested to a peculiar sort of mortification, beginning at the ex- tremity of one, or more of thcsmall toes, and passing on to the foot and ancle, and, sometimes, to a part of the leg, quite u 11 preceded by any appearance of inflammation. In some few instances, it makes its appearance with little or no pain ; but, commonly, the patient feels great unea- siness through the whole foot and ancle-joint, particularly in the night time, even before the parts show any marks of distemper, or while there is only a small discoloured spot on the end of one of the little toes. From this spot the cuticle is always detached, and the skin underneath is of a dark red colour. Sometimes it is slow in spreading from toe to toe. At other times its progress is rapid, and horridly painful. It is most frequent in males, and is more often met with in the rich and voluptuous than in the labouring poor. It frequently happens to persons ad- vanced in life ; but it is by no means peculiar to old age. It is said to happen often in persons subject to gouty pains in the feet, without having regular paroxysms of the disorder. Few mortifications proceed so slowly as that now described ; it spreads, however, more quickly when it invades fleshy parts. Mortification appears, sometimes, to d pend on epide- mic causes. Instances have been known of almost all the ulcers and wounds in large hospitals, becoming simulta- neously affected with gangrene.FIRST LINES OF THE The terms dry and humid as of no practical utility. gangrene ought be abandoned TREATMENT or THE VARIOUS KINDS OP MORTIFICATION. In every case of mortification there are two grand cu- nt.ve UKl.cations = vis. I. To put a slop the progress of the m,sch.cf; 2. To promote the separation of the mor- titled from the living parts. The extent tff death in the part affected may probably be considerably influenced by the mode of treatment, adopted during the incipient stage of mortification, term- ed gangrene. When the disorder is the, effect of inflam- mation, we are bound to believe that the living circum- ihrence f* inflamed in the highest degree. Fomentations and warm emollient poultices are very commonly applied ; hut, as heat always increases action, they should not often bemused in this state. Cold, too long applied, is apt to debilitate; but it previously lessens vascular action, the grand object in view. The lotio aq. lilharg. acet. is as good an application as can be used ; but, it is to be re- membered, that here, as in cases of common inflammation, 4he feelings and comfort of the patient must determine, whether warm or cold applications are best. * ^1C P*dn> attending the change from violent phleg* monous inflammations into gangrene, is excessive, opium, and when there is a tendency to delirium, camphor should be administered. When the gangrenous part is converted into a black, insensible, fibrous mass, it is of little consequence what is applied to it; the living circumference then claims almost exclusive attention. If the application of cold, and the internal exhibition of opium and camphor, assisted by such treatment as is adapted to the inflammatory fever, check the further ex- pansioa of gangrene and sphacelus, the lymphatics next remove the particles of matter, connecting the slough toPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 59 the living body, and suppuration takes place in Ike inter- space. The result is an entire separation of the mortified portion. , The disposition to mortification often extends a consi- derable way from the part already dead. The coagula- tion of the blood in the large vessels leading to the slough, proves that the mischief is not confined to what is external- ly visible. Hence the united experience of surgeons in all ages lias determined, that no operation, for ibe removal of a mortified limb, can warrantably be performed, before a stop is put to the expansion of the disorder, and a line of separation is seen between the dead and living parts. When the sphacelation is complete, and its progress has stopped, a linseed poultice, containing finely powder- ed and recently burnt charcoal, is a most eligible applica- tion. The cataplasma aeratum, one ot the formulas of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, is also one very much approved.* Stimulating antiseptics, such as spir. rim enmph. ol te- rebinth. &c. may diminish the fetid effluvia; but, they are too apt to create a renewal of sloughing, when they extend their action to the living parts. When the inflammation surrounding the sphacelus has abated, the patient should be allowed the most nutritious food, with bark, aromatic confection, wine, and ferment- ed liquors. If delirium should occur, camphor, musk, or valerian ought to be administered, and a blister applied to the head. Opium and the mistura cretacea are tire best medi- cines for diarrhoea. The separation of a slough should always be left as much as possible to nature. The surgeon should only interfere in removing parts entirely detached. It is impossible to say what little violence will often renew the spreading of * R; Farinre Tritici, CerevisiieSpumse Yest dicta*, sing, fijss: Misce. et calwi medico expone, donee etfervescere inceperit.30 FIRST LINES OF THE mortification; and when we consider the debilitated and disordered condition, into which the whole system is thrown by the death of a part, it is a matter of no surprise. Bark, conjoined with the vitriolic W, lias been very generally considered as a most effectu d remedy for stop- ping the progress of mortification. But, it is very wrong to employ bark indiscriminately in all cases. In some it is unnecessary ; in some, ineffectual; in others, hurtful. When mortification happens from an external local in- jury in a sound constitution ; when it no longer spreads, and the living margin appears red, for a small distance fiom the line of separation ; bark is clearly unnecessary. Mortification is attended with fever of three kinds : 1. Sympathetic inflammatory fever. 2. One accompanied with extreme debility, being probably of a typhoid na- ture. 3. One depending on derangement of the cbylo- poietic organs. , The first takes place when the mortification is the conse- quence of healthy acute inflammation, which has been pro- duced by an external injury in a healthy constitution. Here bark is usually hurtful. 1 lie second fever certainly requires bark. In the third, however, as the indication is to empty the ptima via, bark is not likely to prove serviceable. Sometimes inflammation has less share in the origin of the mortification than some other proximate cause, which may demand the administration of bark. In the course of the case, also, circumstances may change so much, that though this medicine were at first improper, it may after- wards become useful. So long as sympathetic inflammatory fever, and local inflammation, are co-existent with mortification, the anti- phlogistic treatment is indicated. But much circumspec- tion is necessary in its adoption ; for the change from the inflammatory into a low fever, with exfreme debility, is commonly in these cases very sudden. Evacuations, in-PRACTICE OF SURGFUY. 31 eluding venesection, may be employed in young,robust persons ; but, very seldom in other subjects. This treat- ment is sometimes necessary in violent burns. When mortification arises without any marks of previ- ous inflammation, but preceded by terrible pains in the part, bark is never of any use. Opium is here, perhaps, the only beneficial medicine. The mortification of the toes and feet, arising in this way, is ably shewn by Mr. Pott to be only benefited by this one remedy. The topi- cal applications should be of an emollient, unirritating kind. When bark is indicated, and it occasions diarrhoea, a, few drops of the tinct. opii should be added to each dose. Bark sometimes disorders the stomach. In this case it should be given in the form of a very subtile powder with wine ; or the tincture, or infusion, may be exhibited. The diet must conform with the plan of treatment. When antiphlogistic means are adopted, nothing but ve- getable food, and diluent beverages, should be allowed. In other cases the diet should be nourishing and anti- septic. Particular attention should be paid to cleanliness. Spicy drinks, taken cold, are highly commendable. When mortification arises from pressure, nothing avails w ithout removing the cause, and even the removal of that, after a certain period, will not prevent the disorder. Cushions placed in particular situations under the patient, and change of posture, are the grand means of prevention in most cases. The local treatment does not differ from that of other mortifications. In every case of sphacelus the surgeon should endeavour to find out, and, if possible, remove the cause. This some- times cannot be discovered; frequently it is known, but cannot be removed. The progress of mortification often stops spontaneously, especially w hen it arises from external injuries. 113f FIRST LINES OF THE Some external injuries: are inevitably followed by mor- tification. Here amputation is frequently proper in the fiist instance ; lor the wound of the operation is less dan- gerous than sphacelus. When the substantial part of the lower extremity has mortified, the formation of a serviceable stump generally renders amputation requisite, as soon as the spreading of the disorder has ceased. Sometimes, however, it is pru- dent to delay the operation a little, until the system has re- vived from its dejected state. CHAP. vr. erysipelas. ERYSIPELAS is a kind of inflammation affecting tW small vessels on the surface of the body. LOCAL SYMPTOMS. The part affected is of a scarlet colour, tinged with yellow, and it does not exhibit so deep a red as that of phlegmon. Erysipelas is very prone to spread rapidly to a great extent. Towards the termination of the com- plaint, the yellow cast is very discernible. The swelling is neither so hard, so elevated, nor so circumscribed, as that of common inflammation. The skin has a glossy, smooth appearance, and, on being touched with the finger, the scarlet colour disappears where the pressure is made, leaving a white spot, which, however, is almost immedi- ately effaced when the finger is removed. The pain is of a burning, itching kind. This inflammation frequently changes its situation gra- dually, growing well on one side, but extending itself onPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 33 another. Sometimes it disappears entirely at one place, and makes its attack on some other. As the disease gets well, the cuticle peels from the part. Erysipelas may be conjoined with phlegmon, in which case the inflammation is of a deeper red colour ; the swell- ing is greater and the pain more acute. There is a throb- bingin the part, and the pulse is full and hard. There is also a particular species of erysipelas (St. An- thony’s Fire) in which small vesicles arise, containing ail irritating fluid. These burst and scabs are formed, be- neath which suppuration-takes place. True erysipelatous inflammation seldom suppurates: it generally ends in resolution. Very violent cases some- times cause gangrene. In erysipelas there is no extravasation of coagulating lymph into the interstices of the part affected, consequent- ly adhesions are seldom formed, so that the expansion of the complaint is not limited, nor are any boundaries set to the matter, when abscesses unfortunately occur. Hence suppuration in these cases is a serious evil, and seldom happens without producing considerable sloughing of the fascia?, tendons, and cellular substance, beneath the skin. The latter part, being highly organized, frequently escapes, even when the sloughing of the other less vascular parts is very considerable. Erysipelas in the face, ccutcris paribus, is more danger- ous than in any other external situation. CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS. In a mild attack of erysipelas no fever is perceptible during the disorder ; but the pulse is generally a li'tle ac- celerated before its commencement. In a more severe attack an unusual languor, heaviness in the limbs, head-ache, loss of appetite, nausea, actual vomiting, and oppressions about Ihe stomach, precede the appearance of tbe local complaint. About the third day, DFIRST LINES OF THE 34 the erysipelas commonly conics out when the febrile symp- toms cease. The most violent form of erysipelas is most often seen attacking the face. It is preceded by excessive disturb- ance of the constitution. Even delirium sometimes occurs, which does not cease on theeruption of the erysipelas, but continues till it vanishes. This usually happens about the eleventh day. CAUSES. Erysipelas is intimately dependant on the state of the constitution. Persons in the habit of drunkenness, and other species ot intemperance, and w ho, in a state of in- toxication, meet with local injuries, often ha\e erysipela- tous inflammation in consequence of them. Other sub- jects, who lead more regular lives, when they meet with similar injuries, experience healthy inflammation. In general, erysipelas lias its principal source in a dis- ordered state of the cbylopoietic viscera, and, perhaps, mostly in a wrong state of the bilious secretion. It seemsj, also, to be often connected with a suppression of perspira- tion ; for it never recedes until this symptom is relieved. CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. Th# mild erysipelas is relieved by any gentle diaphore- tic. A few doses of nitre to promote the ordinary evacua- tions ; the breathing of pure, fresh air ; and the antiphlo- gistic regimen, are also very serviceable, But, as in most cases, the bowels are out of order, it is necessary to give a mild purgative, such as the natron xi- triolalum, or pulv. rhcci. Sometimes venesection is proper when the case is cor.- joined with phlegmon; when there are symptoms of in- flammatory fever present; when the marks of bilious disor- der are not considerable ; and, particularly, when the face isdheseat of the attack.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 35 Copious bleeding, however, is generally hurtful, and no blood ought ever to be taken away when the abdominal viscera are much disordered. In severe erysipelas other evacuations are indispensable ; for it is usually connected with a derangement of the se- cretion of bile. Cremor tartari, natron vitriolatum, manna, and other mild purgatives, given with small doses of the antim. tar- tariz. are the best medicines in this sort of case. When the patient has a very foul tongue, a bitter taste in his mouth, and a propensity to vomit, if purgatives should not quite remove the symptoms of disorder in the viscera, an emetic becomes necessary. In fact, an emetic is indicated in every severe case, and ought even to be re- peated. When purgatives only produce a temporary abatement of the visceral disorders, the vitriolic acid proves bene- ficial. \ t LOCAL TREATMENT. Many surgeons decry both warm and cold moist appli- cations to erysipelas, and recommend keeping the part dry, and in a moderate equal warmth, secluded from the air. Such practitioners think, that a gentle diaphoresis from the inflamed part forms one principal indication, and, for this reason, they cover the local affect ion with flannel, or dry mealy powders. This doctrine is probably founded on prejudice. I have generally been in the habit of applying the same kind of topical applications, viz. cold lotions, both to erysipe- las and phlegmon, and I have never had reason to think them less efficacious in the former than in the latter case. Emollient poultices, however, should never be ap- plied ; for, they sometimes induce suppuration, which is- attended with serious consequences in these cases. AV lien the fever, and most of the local redness have sub- j>236 FIRST LINES OF THE sided, and only a discoloured ccdemalous swelling conti- nues, topical applications containing camphor are the best. The vesicles which form should be punctured with a needle, and their fluid contents be imbibed by a sponge. CHAP. VII. OF THE FURUNCULUS, OR BOIL. , ITS SYMPTOMS AND NATURE. A circumscribed, very prominent, hard, deep-red, painful, inflammatory swelling, not exceeding, in general, a pigeon’s egg in size, constitutes the furunculus. It is seldom attended with fever, .except when very- large, or there are several tumours at once. It is the disposition of aboil to enter into an imperfect kind of suppuration. The matter is contained in a cyst, composed of the cellular substance. When the tumour bursts, it does not readily heal on account of this sort of capsule continuing behind. TREATMENT OF THE BOIL. As it seems to be the course of nature that swellings of this kind should suppurate, though imperfectly, and, as an induration constantly remains after an incomplete re- solution of them, v’e ought generally to promote suppu- ration by using external emollient applications. There arc, however, a few exceptions, in which resolu- tion may laudably be attempted. In such instances, vi- triolic acid mixed with honey ; alcohol ; and ol. camph. are recommended as topical applications. In the majority of cases, emollient poultices are the eli- gible remedies, to which henbane, hemlock, or opium, may be united, when the pain is intolerable.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 3; The boil is very tardy in bursting, but it docs so at last. It may commonly be opened advantageously with a lance before this event. The contents should than be squeezed out, and every portion of the cyst extracted, if it can be done with ease, and without giving much pain. hen this has been accomplished the cure soon follows. Gentle aperients, and the antiphlogistic regimen, which are proper in all local inflammations, are not to be omitted in this case. Camphorated mercurial ointment, and gum ammonia- ctim, are proper applications for discussing any indura- tion that may remain afterwards. CHAP. VIII. CARBUNCLE. THE carbuncle is a malignant kind of boil, an hich occa- sions a gangrenous suppuration beneath the skin, and is often attended with great danger. It is one ot the symp- toms of the plague and other malignant fevers. Its progress to the gangrenous state is sometimes rapid ; at other times slow. Its size varies considerably. It lias been known to be as large as a common plate. Consider- able local pain, and induration always attend the disease. As the complaint advances, several apertures generally form in the tumour. Through these openings a yellow, greenish, bloody, irritating discharge flows out. In these cases there is oftentimes very extensive slough- ing deeply situated, when no sign of mortification can be externally discerned. The concomitant fever is, at first, of the sympathetic in- flammatory kind ; but it is soon observed to lose the strong actions of that, and to assume the typhoid nature.FIRST LINES OF THE 3S Treatment of the Carbuncle. topical treatment. The openings which form in the tumour are sometimes nu* melons, but so small, that the matter cannot readily escape. In short, as these ulcerated apertures are tardyofformation, and, when produced, do not answer the purpose of giving free vent to the contents of the tumour, it is adviseable to make an early, and free, incision into every carbuncle. An emollient poultice is then to be applied. The mat-* ter and sloughing cellular substance are now discharged, and make room for the granulations which fill up the ca- vity. The pain and hardness abate, and the cure is soon perfected. CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT. As the carbuncle is most frequent in old persons, whose constitutions have been impaired by voluptuous living, the local disease, influenced by the general disorder of the system, often assumes a dangerous aspect. Bark and camphor are commonly proper for the relief of the weakness and irritability. Theprbuee vice are most frequently out of order, so that purgatives and emetics should be administered. When strong sympathetic inflammatory fever prevails, venesection and the antiphlogistic regimen are proper. But the low state of the constitution seldom admits of blood being taken awray, and cordial, aromatic, and tonic mcdi-r cines are commonly requisite. As the pain is exceedingly severe opium should be given.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 39 CHAP. IX. (EDEMA. (EDEMA is a preternatural accumulation of an aque. ou< fluid in the interstices of the cellular substance; The tumour is uncircumscribed. The skin of the swollen part retains its natural colour : if at all changed it is ra- ther paler. The part has a cold feel, and the pressure of the finger occasions an impression, or pitting, winch re- mains some time, and disappears slowly. There is no acute pain ; but there is an uneasiness, or sense of weight, and tightness. When theoedematous limb is in a depend- ing posture, the magnitude of the tumour is increased and ' vice versa. In a few rare cases the tumour is quite circumscribed, and of small extent. This is to be wondered at, as the fluid issituated in the common cellular substance. Some- times oedema is conjoined with an erysipelatous inflam- mation. Sometimes abscesses, very difficult of cure, take place. The erysipelatous oedema not unfrcqueutly pro- duces gangrene. causes. (Edema may depend! on constitutional or on local debi- lity. Contusions, sprains, the long-continued use ot re- laxing poultices, and washes, are often local causes of oedema. A part, which has undergone acute inflamma- tion, remains often oedematous for some time afterwards. In all these instances, the tone of the vessels being impair- ed, is the cause of the disease. The complaint is very often owing to some impediment preventing the return of blood towards the heart. The pressure of the gravid uterus on the iliac veins often renders the lower extremi-FIRST LINES OF THE 40 lies ffidcraatO'is. Aneurisms frequently compress the chief veins of an extremity, and bring on this affection. CEclema must frequently be a mere symptom of other dis. eases, which operate as a cause. It accompanies ascites, hydrothorax, deeply seated abscesses, &c. &c. TREATJLENT. No cure can be expected till the particular cause has been removed. To promote the absorption of the extra- vasated fluid, and to re-establish the original tone of the vessels, are always, however, grand indications. The limb should be kept in an horizontal position. Frictions made on the part with flannel, fumigated with aromatic vapours ; the application of camomile flowers, and preparations containing camphor ; and a moderately tight roller, tend strongly to rouse the absorbents into action. The operation of these means is considerably assisted by giving internally purgatives, diuretics, and emetics. If the tumour should not soften under this plan, but be- come so tense as to occasion pain, inflammation, and the clanger of gangrene, the fluid may be discharged by means of a small puncture. A puncture is, however, not void of danger, for wounds, in dropsical constitutions, and parts, easily become gangrenous. The punctures, therefore, should be as small as possible. When the cedematous part is inflamed, every thing in the least irritating should be removed. No bandages should now be employed. 1 lie limb should be placed in a horizontal position, and covered with the lot. aq. litharg. acet. Cooling purga- tives are to be given, and the antiphlogistic regimen ob- served. Such inflammation is apt to occasion dangerous sloughing. Electricity is useful in cases unattended with inflamma- tion.PRACTICE OF SURGERY, 41 CHAP. X. BURNS. BURNS may be divided into four degrees :* J. In the mildest, there is but a slight redness without swelling, and only a gentle inflammation is excited, ihat shortly subsides. 2. In the second degree the redness'is attended with swelling; the pain is severe ; and if the burn be of much extent, there is fever. The inflammation is acute, but it commonly ends in resolution. 3. In the third degree, vesicles containing a clear or yellow fluid, arise either in a sudden or gradual manner. The sympathetic fever is severe ; the pain is intolerable ; and suppuration can seldom be prevented. 4. In the fourth the burnt part, is mortified. This hap- pens either at the moment of the accident, or in conse- quence of violent inflammation. The quantity of injury depends on the degree of heat in the burning substances; on the duration and extent of their application ; and on the sensibility of the burnt pari. The danger is proportioned to the extent as well as to the violence of the burn ; hence, even cases of the fourth kind, and of little extent, may be insignificant, while others of the first description, and of great extent, may be very perilous. As heated fluids part with their caloric in being dif- fused, scalds are often attended with various degrees of in- jury at different parts. In the human subject, the skin and lungs are both des- tined to separate trorn the circulation an aqueous exhala- tion, and perhaps it is on account of those parts parti- cipating in t he same function, tl;at extensive burns seem42 FIRST LINES OF THE to affect the organs of respiration. Certain it is, that burnt patients often die with asthmatic symptoms. Whether we refer the tact to what I have first stated, or to an inex- plicable sympathy between the lungs and skin, is of no very material importance. treatment Of ISURXS. Before Mr. Kentish published his very excellent work on this subject, burns were almost always treated on the principle of subduing inflammation by. every kind of soothing means. Evacuations, emollient poultices, cool- ing saturnine lotions, and an inert liniment, composed of equal parts of lime water and olive oil, were tire remedies almost universally adopted. The good effects of powdered ice and snow on burns and scalds, had indeed been set forth by Sir James Earle, just before the method of dress- ing bums w'ith a liniment consisting of the ungucntijm re- sin® fkivae, and oleum terebinth in®, attracted public at- tention. t ' The injured surface, to which this application is to be made, is to Ire previously bathed with rectified spirit of wine, either simple or camphorated. The liniment is to be spread on old linen, and applied over the whole extent of the burn. The yellow ointment stops the pores of the cloth, impedes.evaporation, and thus confines the effect of the alcohol to the burnt surface. The first dressings arc to remain on four and twenty hours. Mr. Kentish thinks it of importance, that the in- jured surface should be left uncovered as little as possible. It is therefore recommended to have plasters ready spread before removing the old ones, and then only to take off oue piece at a time. It will seldom be necessary to repeat the application of alcohol a second time, or that of oleum terebinthin®. The inflammatory action will be found diminished, and, ac- cording to Mr. Kentish’s principles, the exciting meansI PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 43 should therefore be diminished. "W arm proof spirits or laudanum may be substituted for the alcohol, and the un- guent. resin, flavae is to be mixed with oleum camph. in- stead of turpentine. If this should be found too irrita- ting, he recommends ung. saturn. or the cerat. lap. cala- minaris. Powdered chalk is to be applied to repress the growth of exuberant granulations, and to absorb the redundant secre- tion. In the cavities of separated eschars, and in the furrows formed between sloughs and the living parts, Mr. Kentish introduces powdered chalk. Then a plaster is applied, and, in very tedious cases, a poultice over the plaster. The limits of this system do not afford room to enquire into the theory of the above practice. The principle is, not to allow the action, of a part that has been much ex- cited, to cease for want of stimulus, but to maintain 1 hat action by an adequate stimulus, which is to be gradually- diminished till the action returns to its ordinary state. This reasoning seems repugnant to all the received doc- trines of inflammation, and, in my mind, is illogical; but, as the corresponding practice has, irom ils unrival- led success, obtained almost general sanction, this is of little importance. Whoever prefers treating burns on the antiphlogistic plan, needs no further information, than what is contain- ed in the chapters on inflammation and its consequences. Burns in the neck are frequently followed by such a con- traction of the cicatrix, that the head becomes drawn to one side. This deformity may be lessened, though it can- not always be prevented, by position. i I \ )FIRST LINES OF TIIE 4t ciiap. xi. EFFECTS OF COLD. A FROZEN limb, in which there is no injury of any organic pari, no other alteration, but rigidity of the so- lids, and congelation of the fluids, may be recovered by the gradual communication of caloric to it. Experience has evinced, that the whole body may be in the same con- dition, having all its vital functions suspended, and yet be restored to animation. In this case, however, tlie gra- dual impartment ot heat will not avail, unless the heart and large bloodvessels retain the power of action. But, since animation, suspended in consequence of cold, has been restored, as late as six days after the occurrence, nei- ther hope nor exertion should be abandoned. W hen the whole body, or any part-of it, is frozen, warmth should be communicated to it very gradually. If a limb, that is not actually frozen, but excessively cold, be suddenly heated, very violent inflammation is the result. The part swells, and becomes red and blue, with insup- portable darting pains. When a part actually frozen is thus quickly warmed, the same symptoms arise, but in an aggravated degree, and they soon terminate in mortifica- tion. In order to thaw a frozen limb, it is best to rub it with snow, until sensibility and motion return. If the ear, or tip of the nose, should be the part concerned, care must be taken to avoid breaking it. If snow be not at hand, ice in wrater should be used instead of it. As soon as marks of sense and motion are discerned, the frictions arc to be made with brandy, oil of petroleum, oil of amber, tinc- ture of myrrh, or camphorated spirit of wine. The next object is to endeavour to excite a perspiration45 PRACTICE-OF SURGERY. by giving some mulled wine, and putting the patient to bed, in a chamber where there is a fire. In this situation he is to remain until he begins to perspire, which is gene- rally succeeded by a perfect recovery of whatever sensibi- lity may have been lost. When a partis almost in the state of gangrene, in con- sequence of improper exposure to sudden heat, sometimes its recovery may still be accomplished by immersing it in water of a temperature nearly as low as the freezing point* The part must be kept immersed until the swelling, pains, and marks of discolouration begin to diminish, when fric- tions with brandy, &c. may commence, and the warmth be gradually increased. This plan often succeeds, when expectation, a priori, cannot be very strong. .If mortification cannot be avoid- ed, the future treatment does not differ from what has been explained in the chapter on that subject. In (his case, however, opium is pre-eminently useful. The treatment, of the whole body, deprived of animation by cold, is similar to that of a part. It is to be covered with snow, or placed in ice-cold water, so that the mouth and nostrils are not obstructed, and care is to be taken not to break any part. In this way signs of vitality must be awaited. When these appear, strong volatiles and ster- nutatories are to be applied to the nostrils, and air is to be blown into the lungs. With a view of doing this more conveniently, tracheotomy may be performed. The practice of introducing tobacco tumes into the rectum is to be reprobated in every case of suspended animation. 1 should rather' advise some warm wine to be injected through a hollow bougie down the oesophagus. . When the body hag been thawed, and signs of return- ing animation increase, it is to be taken out of the water, rubbed with brandy, and conveyed into a warmer situa- tion. Any diaphoretic drink should then be administered',FIRST LINES OF THE 40 and as soon as the patient has been well dried, he is to be Put to bed, and remain there till he begins to sweat. CHILBLAINS. Their Symptoms, Varieties, Src. A chilblain in the mild state is a moderately red tumour, occasioning heat and itching. The complaint after a time spontaneously disappears. In a more severe state, the tumour is larger, redder, and sometimes of a dark blue colour. The heat, itching, and pain are so vehement, that the patient cannot use the part affected. In the third degree, small vesicles arise on the tumour. These burst, leaving excoriations, which soon change into sores. The ulcers secrete a thin matter, penetrate deeply, arid arc very slow in healing. In the worst cases of chilblains, the inflammation ends in mortification, which is often preceded by the formation of bloody vesicles on the tumour. CAUSES. The sudden warming of a cold part, and the sudden cooling of a heated part, seem particularly conducive to chilblains; hence, parts most exposed to the vicissitudes of heat and cold, are most subject to the complaint; as, for instance, the toes, fingers, nose, ears, and lips. When a part is exposed to sudden cold, while it is in a state of perspiration, it is more likely to be affected with chilblains, than when'thus exposed while simply warm. The most intense cold alone cannot produce true chilblains, though analogous complaints do remain in limbs that have been frozen. The more irritable and tender the skin is, the more readily the complaint arises. Children, especially such as are subject to scro'phula, young persons, females, and alt who are brought up tenderly, who keep themselves warm,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 47 / and unexposed to the air, and who perspire much in the- feet. are particularly liable to cnilblains. TREATMENT. One of the best applications to chilblains of the first and second sort, is ice-cold water. The part affected is to bn immersed in it a few minutes, two or three times a day, until the complaint quite disappears. This event usually happens in less than four days. After every application the part is to be well dried, and covered with leather socks. In some cases tonics and" astringents have had the best effect. Such* as diluted muriatic acid; the saturnine lo- tion; spir. vini. camph. ; tinct. myrrhm; the alum lotion, vinegar, &c. In o,ther instances, oleum terebinthltiae mixed with the balsam copaivte; or a mixture of two parts spir. vini camph. and one part of aq. litharg. acet. have proved the best applications. Suppurated chilblains require topical stimulants, such as warm vinegar ; a mixture of aq. litharg. acet. and aq. calcis ; or a salve containing the hydrarg. nitrut. rub. It is frequently necessary to touch such ulcers witli the argentu m nitratum. Gangrenous chilblains must be treated according to the rules explained in the chapter on mortification. CHAP. XII. WOUNDS. BY a wound surgeons imply a recent, sudden breach in the continuity of the soft parts. Wounds are divided into the incised, punctured, lacera- ted, contused, and poisoned kinds. All bites and gun-shot injuries are complicated with con-48 FIRST LINES OF THE fusion and laceration. The former are frequently rendered more serious by being at the same time poisoned. The danger of wounds is proportioned to several cir- cumstance? highly deserving attention. 1. 1 heir size. 2. The degree of violence done to the fibres in addition to their mere division. 3. The little power which the part has of repairing its injuries. 4. Its great importance to the constitution. I shall not mention age ana kind of constitution, as these have influence in all disorders, s 1. The .removal of a large adipose tumour is often ac- complished without injuring any one part of importance, and yet the magnitude of the wound may occasion death* 2. A man cannot bear a large incised, and lacerated wound equally well ; because in the latter case, the fibres are not only divided, but stretched, and otherwise injured. I have seen the integuments, covering the anterior surface of the tibia, torn in a straight direction, from the upper head of that bone, nearly to the foot: mortification of the limb took place rapidly, and (he man died. Ilad this been a simple incision, such fatal consequences would, probably, not have happened, since the wound of ampu- tation, even when a bulky thigh is removed, is not fre- quently the cause of death. All contused and gun-shot wounds are, for this reason, more perilous, than if they were simple breaches of continuity. o. Joints seem to possess but feeble power of repairin'1'' their injuries, and the whole constitution becomes very often dangerously disturbed in such cases. The system seems to sympathize with the local imperfection. 4. The slightest wound of a part, the functions of which are intimately connected with life, is often fatal. The brain, stomach, &c. Wounds may be complicated with injury of consider- able blood-vessels, and nerves; lodgment of extraneous substances, and poisonous matter in them ; fractured bones;PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ' 49 and a (rain of other circumstances, which will be here- after explained. From this preliminary matter, I proceed to describe the chirurgical measures to be adopted in INCISED WOUNDS. In which cases, there is frequently nothing else to be remedied, but the simple breach of continuity, the cut fibres not having been stretched, contused or lacerated. When no artery of importance is divided, and no extra- neous bodies are lodged in the wound, the duty of the surgeon consists in promoting the reunion of the divided surfaces without delay. It often happens, however, that considerable vessels are injured, and then the bleeding demands primary at- tention. CHAP. XIII. % % . , ,i, * MEANS OF STOPPING HEMORRHAGE. WHEN an artery is wounded, the blood is of a bright scarlet colour, and gushes from the vessel per saltum, and with great rapidity. The blood issues from a vein in an even, unbroken stream, and is of a dark purple red colour. It must be plain to every one, who understands the course of the circulation, that pressure, made on that portion of a wounded artery, which adjoins the wound to- wards the heart, must check the effusion of blood. The current of blood in the veins, running in the opposite direction, requires the pressure to be applied to that side ot the wound, which is most remote from the heart. As pressure is the most rational means of impeding he- morrhage, so it is the most effectual, and almost all the Eso ' FIRST LINES OF THE plans employed for this purpose, are only modifications of it. The tourniquet, the ligature, the application of a roller and compresses, even agaric itself, only become useful in the suppression of hemorrhage, on the principle of pressure. The structure of the blood-vessels is similar to that of other parts, d hey have their own arteries, veins and absorbents, and are susceptible of inflammation, ulceration, See. Their internal cuticular coat has a smooth membra- nous appearance, and, like many ofher membranes, is very prone to what Mr. Hunter termed adhesive inflam- mation. Infect, this is the process, which puts a per- manent stoppage to all bleeding from important arteries. It is by promoting this process, that the various modifi- cations of pressure acquire their efficacy. For, in order that one side of the cavity of an artery, may become agglutinated to the opposite one, two things are essen- tial : 1. That such an increased action shall be excited in the vasa vasorum, as shall produce an efFusion of coagu- lating lymph on the internal surface of the wounded ves- sel : 2. That the opposite sides of the arterial canal, shall be kept in contact with each other. Pressure fulfils both these indications, and we have only to consider further the peculiar advantages, and disadvantages of each modi- fication of it, and the method of putting it into practice.* J. TOURNIQUET. Ambrose Pare was acquainted with the utility of com- pressing the great vessels in the performance of important operations. It is .surprising, that this information did not lead him to imagine an instrument adapted to the pur- pose. A French surgeon, named Morel, enjoys the ho- * It is to be understood, that one side of the cavity of the artery adheres to the opposite one, only where the ligature, or compression, has brought the surfaces into contact, and when it has maintained them so for a due length of time. Above this situation, the artery becomes for some extent impervious by the formation of a coagulum, and as tar as the cavity is obliterated the diameter of the vessels become afterwards gradually diminished.51 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. nour of the invention of the tourniquet, which happened about 1G74. But Morel’s tourniquet was far from per- fection, for it compressed equally every part of the cir- cumference of a limb, not acting more on the situation of the main artery, than on any other point Petit has im- mortalized his name, by devising the construction of the instrument on the principle now adopted in modern prac- tice. The tourniquet, now in use, consists of a band and buckle, a pad, and a sort of brass bridge, capable of being elevated, and depressed, by means of a screw. The band is first buckled round the limb in such a manner, that the pad which is attached to the band, is placed ex- actly over the artery. The bridge, over which the band proceeds, is to be then raised by turning the screw, and thus a due degree of pressure is produced. The advantages of this instrument arc so considerable, .that its first invention constitutes a great epoch in the annals of surgery. The pressure may be regulated with the utmost exactness, and it operates chiefly on the point, where the pad is placed, and where the main artery lies. The instrument does not require the aid of an assistant to keep it tense; it completely commands the flow of blood into a limb ; it may be relaxed, or tightened in a moment; and, when there is reason to fear a sudden renewal of bleeding, it may be left slackly round a limb, and, in case of need, made tense in an instant. Its operation is, however, limited to the limbs, and as the pressure, necessary to impede the flow of blood through the principal artery, completely prevents the return of blood through the veins, its application cannot be made very long without inducing gangrene. Nor does it have ar^ direct effect in promoting the closure of the wound in the artery. Hence, its utility is confined to preventing, and putting a sudden stop to profuse hemorrhages, until the surgeon has had time to put more permanent means into practice'. e 2first lines of the 32 The tourniquet is occasionally applied in a moderate stale of tension, with a view of weakening, not suppress- ing, the current of blood into a limb. The common one ^does not accomplish this object advantageously, because, in letauling the return of blood through the veins, it has the effect of rendering the arteries more charged with blood, consequently any that are wounded, more likely to bleed. In cases of aneurisms, where this plan is sometimes practised, the compression of the veins does infinite harm, by augmenting the oedema, and painful tension, so fre- quently attendant on that disease. 2. LIGATURE. We have observed, that the tourniquet is generally em- ployed, only as a temporary means of suppressing he- morrhage. Let us now take a view of other means, which kfve a permanent effect in the stoppage of bleeding, by producing a closure of the wounded vessels. The most important of these is the ligature, by which the most alarmirtg effusions of blood may be rest rained. By this the mouths of the divided arteries are lied, and thus, not only an instantaneous stop is put to further hemorrhage, but, long before the ligature becomes loose, the opposite sides of the vessels have grown together, and all danger of the re- newal of hemorrhage is over. , No other plan of preventing bleeding from large arte- ries is so secure as the ligature, because no other makes such direct pressure on them, or acts with such little chance of being displaced. It'is in the ligature, that modern surgery has a very material superiority over its ancient state. In the performance of operations, large vessels are often wounded in situations, where the tourni- quet cannot be applied. The scientific surgeon now knows that he can tie such a vessel immediately^ is wounded, and then continue his incisions, without that confusion and53 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. danger, which would result from a profuse hemorrhage continuing during the whole of his proceedings. The arteries are either tied together with a portion of the adjacent flesh, or quite separately. Including the flesh is wrong, as it causes immense pain, and a larger part of the wound to remain disunited. The ligatures are also apt to become loose, as soon as the substance be- tween them and the arteries sloughs, or is absorbed. Some- times, the ligatures, when thus applied, form a circular furrow in the flesh surrounding the vessels, and remain a tedious time incapable of being removed. Blood-vessels partake of the same organization, as other parts. Hence the healing of a wounded artery can only take place favourably, when that part of the vessel, which is immediately contiguous to the ligature, continues to receive a due supply of blood through its vasa vasorum. As these vessels are derived from the surrounding ramifi- cations, it is obvious, that the application of a ligature to a divided artery, at some distance from where it is en- compassed by flesh, must be very disadvantageous and insecure. Thus, although it is quite improper to include much of the adjacent substance together with the artery in the ligature, it is highly judicious to make the knot as closely as possible to that part of the vessel, which lies undisturbed among its natural connexions. These obser- vations only apply to vessels above a certain size ; for, such as shrink from the surface of a wound, are not suf- ficiently visible to be tied in this manner. The method of tying an artery is as follows : the extre- mity of the vessel is first to be taken hold of with a tena- culum, or pair of forceps. The latter instrument is only used, when the vessel is large, and very visible. Then a ligature, of a size proportioned to the magnitude of the artery, is to be placed in a noose, just below the end of the instrument. The noose is then to be drawn tight by pulling each end of the ligature in opposite directions.54 FIRST LINES OF THE In order that the noose may not rise above the mouth of the artery, the ligature must be drawn as horizontally as possible, and this is best fulfilled by the thumbs instead of the fingers. A knot is next to be made. When the wounded artery is large, one ligature to its upper orifice will not suffice ; for, as soon as this is tied, the blood finds its way, through anastomosing branches, into the lower part ofthe artery, and the lower orifice then begins to bleed. When a /arge artery is only punctured, and not cut through, a ligature is to be passed under it by means of an aneurism needle, the vessel being first exposed by an incision. „ As ligatures act as extraneous substances, and only omhalf of each is necessary for withdrawing it, when it is detached, the other is always to be cut off near the knot. Ligatures usually come away, even from the larger arteries that are tied, in about a fortnight. When they continue attached much beyond the usual period, it is proper to draw' them gently every time the wound is dressed, so as to accelerate their separation. 3. COMPRESSION. This is executed by applying a bandage and compresses, in such a manner that they mechanically stop the effu- sion of blood. Formerly surgeons used to fill the cavities of wounds with charpie, and then make pressure on the bleeding vessels, by applying a tight roller over the part. Tire moderns understand too well the utility of not allowing any extraneous substance to intervene be- tween the .opposite surfaces of a recent wound, to per- sist in the above plan, except in a few instances. They know that the sides of the wound may be brought into contact, and that compression may yet be adopt- ed, so as both to restrain particular hemorrhages, andPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 55 rather promote, than retard, the union of the wound. When the blood does not issue from any particular ves- sels, but from numerous small ones, compression is prefer- able to the ligature. The employment of the latter would render it necessary to tie the whole surface of the wound. In order to make effectual compression in this case, the wound is to have its opposite surfaces brought into con- tact; compresses are then to be placed over the wound, and a roller is to be applied as tightly as can be done with- out hazard of stopping the circulation in the part. If compression can ever be safely practised in bleedings from large arteries, it is when these vessels run in the vici- nity of a bone, against which they can be advantageously compressed. Bleedings from the radial and temporal ar- teries are of this kind. Compression is sometimes tried, when the brachial artery has been wounded in phlebo- tomy. Here it is occasionally tried in preference to th« ligature, because the latter cannot be employed without an operation to expose the artery. It is absurd to adopt com- pression, in this instance, with an idea, that it effects a closure of the wound in the vessel without obliterating its pervious estate; and, consequently, that there is less chance of mortification from a deficiency of blood in the limb. Frequent dissections have evinced, that whenever a large artery has been wounded and healed, the wound is never closed so as to leave the canal of the artery pervious. When an artery of magnitude has received a small wound, the following plan may be tried. A tourniquet is to be applied so as to command the flow of blood into the vessel. The edges of the external Avound are next to be brought into contact. Then a compress, shaped like a blunt cone, and which is best formed by a. scries of compresses gradually increasing in size, is to be placed with its apex exactly on the situation of the wound in the artery. This graduated compress, as it is termed, is then to be bound on the part with a roller. I2 J 3b FIRST LINES OF THE Some surgeons also apply a longitudinal compress over the track of the vessel above the wound 5 they do s5 with a view of weakening the current of blood into the vessel. Whatever good efFect it may have in this way, is more han counterbalanced by the difficulty which it must create to the circulation in the arm. If the graduated compress be properly arranged, an effusion of blood cannot possibly appen ; and the application of pressure along the course of the artery must, at best, be deemed superfluous. After relaxing the tourniquet, if no blood escape from the artery, the surgeon should feel (he pulse at the wrist, m order to ascertain that the compression employed is not so powerful as to prevent the circulation entirely. The arm is to be kept perfectly quiet in a sling ; and in forty, eight hours, if no bleeding take place, there will be great reason to expect that the case will do well.* Compression of large arteries is never commendable, ex- cept in such a case as has been just mentioned, or when the wounded vessel is capable of being firmly compressed against an adjoining bone. The compresses someiiiges slip off, or the bandages become slack, so as to cive room for fatal hemorrhage. When this plan is employed, the tourniquet should therefore always remain slackly on the limb, and ready to'be instantaneously tightened. In this kind of treatment the external wound may heal, while the aperture in the artery remains unclosed, and an aneu- Plenk has invented an instrument, which is well calculated for healing wounds of the brachial artery by making pressure, without preventing a sufficient circulation in the arm. See Plate I. Leather shaps are attached to the buttons a, a, a, a, and are fastened behind fhe arm by buckles, one above the other below the elbow. The pad b is to be placed immediately over a graduated compress, which is to be put immediately over the wound in the artery. The necessary de- gree of pressure may be regulated by the screw c; while the branches of the instrument d, d, d, d, are at some distance from the limb, and, consequently, do not interrupt the flow of blood either through the ar- teries or veins.II. t ACff. J’lanArsJnstru/nent for mating pressure on the Artery at the bend of the firm. Published.April t //*<*-, by P. Philips, Undue ■ 'free/, Blud/riars Lend on.57 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. rism is the consequence. This particularly occurs when the pressure is not sufficiently potent. When it is too great, mortification of the limb is liable to happen. Such are the objections to compression. 4. AGARIC. Agaric formerly acquired immense reputation for having the virtue of stopping the most violent hemorrhage, with- out creating the least irritation. It has, however, no spe- cific property of checking bleeding ; and whatever good effects it may seem to have had are more properly ascrib- able to the compression adopted in conjunction with its use. If it have any virtue at all, this is a mechanical one, arising from its soft, spongy texture, which qualifies it for filling up all inequalities in the wound, and thus closing the vessels. When we consider that agaric is intended to be applied to the mouth of the bleeding vessel; and that, in this plan, the opposite surfaces of the wound cannot be brought into contact, we shall feel inclined to select some other means, not quite so repugnant to the union of the wound. Compression is often tried, because the vessel cannot be tied without having recourse to an operation in order to expose it. But the employment of agaric is war- ranted by no such reason ; for its supposed specific virtues require its application to be made directly to the divided artery. Agaric has also the inconvenience of acting as an extraneous substance in the wound, and, like compresses, it is liable to slip off the precise situation which it ought to occupy. Vv lien the wounded vessel is large, always prefer the li- gature to agaric : when smaller vessels bleed, compression is far preferable to this vainly extolled substance. These observations on agaric are also applicable to sponge. Therejrre cases, however, in which it is impos- sible to tie, or compress the bleeding vessel; and improper to employ means which remain to be described. In bleed-£1 riEST LINES OF THE V bigs from the rectum, (lie expanding quality of sponge often renders it exceedingly useful. The following means do not operate on the principle of pressure. ft. ACTUAL CAUTERY. The application of a heated iron to a bleeding vessel is ©ne of the most ancient modes of suppressing hemorrhage, but at present i( is almost in general disuse. It operates by producing a slough, which covers and closes the mouth of "the artery. In order that it may not injure the circumja- cent part it is applied through a canula. • There are several formidable objections to its employ- ment. It does not regularly produce a permanent cessa- tion of hemorrhage, as when the eschar separates prema- turely the bleeding recurs. To many patients the proposal is attended with horror ; to all the application is severely painful. The only cases in which the actual cautery is at all jus- tifiable in modern practice, are hemorrhages situated in the mouth. 6. POTENTIAL CAUTERY, OR CAUSTICS. The most common, formerly used, was a button of blue vjtriol, of the size of a pea, rolled up in a piece of linen, and placed on the aperture of the bleeding vessel. Its ope-* ration is similar to that of heated irons. Caustics arc even worse than the actual cautery ; for their action is more te- dious, less effectual, and not confined to the vessel alone. 7. STYPTIC'S. Styptics are substances which have the property of pro- ducing a contraction of the.vessels ; and, as some suppose, coagulation of the blood. Such are cold air, cold water, wine, brandy, spirits in general, diluted mineral a-cids, solutions of alum, blue vitriol, See. These substances do, indeed, possess the power of stopping some hemorrhages59 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. from small vessels; but (hey ought never to be trusted when large arteries are concerned. The method of applying fluid applications of this kind is to dip lint in them, and place it on the bleeding surface. Compression is generally adopted at the same time. That cold air has a styptic property we have the most unequivocal proofs. We frequently tie, on the surface of a wound, every artery that betrays the least disposition to bleed, as long as the wound continues exposed to the air. We bring the opposite sides of this wound into contact, and nut, the patient to bed. Not an hour el apses before the renewal of hemorrhage necessitates us to remove the dressings. The wound is again exposed to the air, and again the bleeding ceases. I have often seen this happen in the scrotum after the removal of the testis. The proper conduct, in such cases, is not to open the wound unneces- sarily, but to apply wet linen to the part, so as to produce such evaporation from its surface as shall create a sutheient degree of cold to stop the bleeding. No styptic has the property of promoting the coagula- tion of the blood. All styptics create irritation on the surface of wounds, and scientific surgeons never apply them to such cases. They are, however, judiciously used to suppress bleedings from many diseased surfaces, where the vessels seem to have lost their natural disposition to contract. 8. PARTICUJ.AR REMARKS. When the bleeding vessel is ossified, or situated in a bony canal, a small dossil of lint, introduced into its ori- fice, will stop the effusion of blood. W hen an artery is cut aciv>ss, and only partly through its diameter, it generally bleeds more profusely than when quite divided. The reason of this is, because it can nei- ther shrink under the surrounding substance, nor contract jtself sufficiently to become impervious. Hence originated6i) FIRST LINES OF THE the*iclvice to divide some wounded arteries completely through and through. This plan ought, however, seldom to be practised ; for if the artery be large, a ligature must, after all, be applied both above and below the wound ; and though it might answer when the vessel is of a mode- rate size, yet compression is far preferable. Were a large artery to be cut through and through, before applying ligatures to it, the shrinking of the vessel beneath the cir- cumjacent parts would only increase the difficulty in tying it afterwards. Sympathetic inflammatory fever is the consequence of all considerable wounds. By this the action of the whole arterial system is rendered more vehement. Hence, during its predominance, the patient is particularly exposed to the danger of fresh hemorrhage. The bleeding, occasioned by the impetuous motion of the blood, arises either from vessels which previously effused little or no blood, or from such as did bleed before, but were not effectually secured. In this case, if the patient be very plethoric, the per- formance of venesection is proper, the loss of venous blood being less prejudicial to the constitution than that of arte- rial. The flow of blood into the wounded limb is always to be decreased by placing the part (if possible) in an ele- vated posture. Sometimes cold applications, in other instances compression, may be advantageously tried. A tourniquet, applied so as neither to stop the circulation in too great a degree, nor hinder the ret urn of blood through the veins, would be exceedingly usefuj. If the hemorr- hage should still continue, the vessels must be exposed, and tied. Hemorrhages from external injuries seldom require in- ternal means. Were these needed, their virtue is very questionable.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 6i CHAP. XIV. EXTRACTION OF FOREIGN BODIES FRO?*I WOUNDS ; UNION BY THE FIRST INTEN- TION, &c. BESIDES hemorrhage, there is another circumstance to which we must attend b:fore dressing a wound. This is to remove all extraneous substances from its surface. An incised wound, made with a clean, sharp instrument, can obviously have no foreign bodies in it. But very con- siderable cuts arc often produced by glass, which is apt to lmrak at the moment, and leave some of its fragme tsin them. As extraneous bodies operate as an irritation to all wounds, and are particularly inimical to their speedy union, great attention should be paid to having such things removed as speedily as possible. Surgeons are divided in sentiment, whether the clots of blood, frequently found on the surface of wounds, ought to be regarded in the light of an extraneous body. Hunter considered blood, retaining the living principle, as a sub- stance rather useful than otherwise; but blood which had been deprived of this principle by long exposure, the ef- fect of styptics, &c. was regarded by that great man as an mjttraneous matter. As far as my own observation ex- tends, I think a considerable quantity of blood on the sur- face of wounds has 'generally seemed to retard the cure. UNION BY THE FIRST INTENTION. AV oundsare healed by two processes : one, in which pus is produced ; and another, in which no suppuration takes place. The latter, when practicable, is always the best, because it is not only the most direct means of cure, it is also the most perfect. Surgeons have termed it union bif62 FIRST LINES OF THE the first intention. Its great recommendations are celerity of cure, freedom from the inconveniences of suppuration, and the prevention of an ugly cicatrix. In promoting union by the first intention, surgery is only to officiate as the handmaid of nature. There arc only two indications to be fulfilled : the first is to bring the edges of the wound into reciprocal contact; the other is to avert the access of immoderate inflammation, by which the agglutination of the wound would certainly be prevented. The first object-is accomplished by a proper position of the wounded part; by bandages; by adhesive plaster; and by sutures. The second is fulfilled by a strict ob- servance of the antiphlogistic regimen ; and, particularly, by avoiding every kind of motion and disturbance of the wound. The rest is the work of nature. I. POSITION OF THE PART. This is to be regulated on the principle of relaxing the wounded integuments and muscles. If the extensor muscles be injured, the joints, which they move, ought to be placed in an extended posture; if the flexor muscles be wounded, the limb is to be bent. When the integuments alone are cut, the same posture, which relaxes the muscles, situated immediately beneath the wound, also serves in general to relax the skin. In transverse wounds of mus- cular fibres it is astonishing what immense effect the ob- servance of a proper posture produces. This is neverJtt be neglected, whatever may be the other means adopted. 2. UNITING, on INCARNATIVE BANDAGE. This is the name given to such bandages as sustain di- vided parts in exact contiguity. The common-u'hiting bandage can only be applied to wounds, which take a di- rection corresponding to the length of the body or limbs, and which are situated where a bandage can be used. It consists of a double-headed roller, having a slit betweenPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 6£ the two heads. The slit must he sufficiently large to allow one head of the roller to pass through it with facility. The surgeon is to take one head of the roller in each hand, and apply the bandage first to that part of the limb which is opposite the wound. One head of .the roller is then to be brought round, so as to bring the slit precisely over the breach of continuity. The other head is then to be brought round in the opposite direction, and passed through the slit. The bandage is next to be drawn mode- rately tight, and its two heads being carried round the limb again, the same artifice is to be repeated. A suffi- cient number of turns of the roller must be made to cover the whole length of the wound. When the wound is deep, jt is recommended to place small longitudinal compresses beneath the roller, at a little distance from the edge ofthe wound. As the uniting bandage can only be made use of for Ion* giludinal wounds, which never have a considerable tend- ency to gape, it is quite wrong ever to apply it exceed- ingly tight. The advantages of this bandage are, its having mors power than adhesive plaster alone, to maintain the oppo- site sides of deep wounds in contact; and its acting wit hout the irritation, frequently arising from the application of -resinous substances to the skin. It is not, however, exempt from inconveniences. Its total concealment of the wound ; its lying in irregular folds, so as to create an uneven cicatrix, &c. might be mentioned. 3. ADHESIVE PLASTER. This has been absurdly termed the dry suture, to distin- guish it from sutures, which are attended with bleeding ; and it is erroneously set down in numerous surgical books, as being only applicable to superficial wounds of the skin. It is true, that adhesive plaster has no direct effect of bring*FIRST LINES OF THE 64 ing together the edges of a deep, muscular wound ; but, let it be remembered, that, while it proves effectual in maintaining the edges of the skin in contact, it presents no obstacle to the adoption, at the same time, of a proper po- sition, compresses, and bandages, which are means having more effect on the deeper part of the wound. It is also an error to suppose, that adhesive plaster cannot be used in situations where hair grows, or where the application is apt to become moistened. If the part be well shaved, and perfectly dried at first, the plaster will not become loose so soon as to prove ineffectual. It is generally applied in strips, between every two of which an interspace is recommended to be left for the purpose of allowing discharge to escape. To bring the edges of the wound effectually together, and, at the same time, to cover as little of the w ound as possible, are the objects to which we ought to attend in using adhesive plaster. Hence, when the strips are broad, it is not unfrequent to cut out an oval piece of each strip, just where it crosses the wound. Equal parts of the empl. litharg. and empl. litharg. c. resina, form the composition commonly used in this coun- try. Desault, and some other eminent foreign surgeons, re- commend English gummed taffeta, spread w ith isinglass and a balsam, because it is not irritating, nor so subject to produce erysipelatous complaints, as others composed of diachylon, &c. 4. SUTURES. Of the numerous lands of sutures, practised by the old surgeons, there are now only four ever employed. These are the interrupted, the quilled, and the twisted sutures, with another one named gastrm'aphe. The twisted suture will be spoken of in the chapter on the harelip, and gas- iroraphe will be noticed in that on wounds of the abdo- men.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 65 interrupted suture. The curvature of the needle employed should form a segment of a regular circle. When the needle is so shaped QS&to be curved towards its point, and straight towards its eye, it is obvious that it is not advantageously con- structed for passing through parts with facility. It should be double-edged for one-third of its length from the point, and its broadest part should te somewhat broader than the ligature, in order that the latter may tra- verse the wound with the utmost ease. When the bleeding has been suppressed, and all ex- traneous substances have been removed, the surgeon is to place the limb in such a posture as shall enable him to bring the lips of the wound easily into contact. The needle, armed with a ligature, is then to be introduced into the right lip of the wound, at a small distance from its edge, and is to be directed across the bottom of the wound, so as to come through the left lip from within outward. The needle is then to be cut off, and the ligature tied in a bow. These sutures should never be placed nearer toge- ther than an inch. Strips of adhesive plaster,and a band- a,re, are commonly employed at the same time. ,o » QUIT.LED SUTURE, So called from a quill being formerly used in making it. This means of uniting wounds has been occasionally prac- tised, when the muscles have been deeply wounded, and it was employed on the supposition, that it produces a more perfect support of every part of a wound than the preceding suture. The same kind of needle is used as for the interrupted suture ; but, it must be armed with a dou- ble ligature. When double ligatures have been intro- duced through the lips of the wound, at as many places as the length of the vround may require, their ends are to be separated, and then tied *in a bow over a piece of FFIRST LINES OF THE fit) *- -V • # bougie, quill, or any similar thing-, placed along each lip of the -wound. 1) ion is first leprobated the adoption of this suture, and it is justly 1 ejected by almost all the moderns, so that it is unnecessary to consider any of its modifications. REJECTION OF SUTURES. In the present schools of surgery the use of sutures is not recommended as it was in former days. It is now known that, by the conjoined operation of position, adhesive plaster, and a bandage, almost all wounds arc capable of being united, as expeditiously and well as they could be, were sutures to be employed. Therefore, were it only to avoid superfluous pain, we ought to reprobate the practice in general. Did sutures, however, only create a little ad- ditional pain, and no other evil, still their employment would be justifiable, if they really possessed the power of rendering union by the first intention, a matter of greater certainty, in only a limited proportion of cases to which they are applied. In the cure of the harelip, and perhaps in large wounds, penetrating the abdomen, we must admit their utility. In the first case the incessant and unavoid- able motionof the part: and, in the second,the distention of the w ound, arising from the viscera, and the danger of their being protruded, are reasons which explain the advantage of sutures in these particular instances. But, in general, the promotion of union by the first intention, cannot be set forth as a valid argument in favour of sutures being commonly used. Inflammation, above a very moderate pitch, always destroys every prospect of this nature, and occasions the secretion of pus, instead of the exudation of coagulating lymph. Sutures have fallen into disrepute, principally because they tend to increase inflammation. The new wounds w hich they make, their irritation as ex- traneous bodies, the forcible manner in which they drag the living parts together, and their incapacity in general 5PRACTICE Of SURGERY. " to accomplish any useful purpose, which position, adhesive plaster, and bandages, cannot effect, are strong motives .or reprobating their being commonly used. In fact, it often happens, when sutures are employed, that considerable inflammation of the wound is the consequence, and its swollen edges evince marks of suppuration, unless soon relieved from the irritation of the ligatures. In this case, if the surgeon lie sagacious enough to cut the liga- tures, and remove them in time, suppuration may still -often be avoided. Extensive erysipelatous redness, sur- rounding wounds, will often be found to originate from the irritation of sutures. Mr.Pibrac’s remarks on this subject, in the third vol. of lheMem.de l’Acad. deChir. are highly worthy of universal consideration. After relating many convincing facts, he concludes with asking, what practice the partisans of su- tures would adopt, were they necessitated, as they fre- quently are, to cut the ligatures, and remove them ? Or, were they to find, as is often the case, that the ligatures had made their way through the lips of the wound so ns 1<> leave them gaping ? They would then never think ol in- troducing new sutures, but would have recourse to a bandage in order to unite the wound. They who assert that the good effect of sutures is in many cases supported upon the solid basis of experience, ought to prove that the same effect could not be produced by the conjoined operation of a proper posture, adhesive plaster, and the pressure of bandages. Whoever wishes to investigate this subject further should peruse M. Louis’s Observations on the Fundamen- tal Principles of Union by the f irst Intention. This justly famous man proved, that even the harelip could be united very well without a suture. (Mem. de l’Acad’. dc Chit.)-FIRST LINES OF THE 6S CHAP. XV. PROCESS BY WHICH THE WOUND IS UNITED. \\ IIEN the opposite sides of arr incised wound are maintained in contact by the foregoing means, they soon become permanently connected together. The vessels of the wounded surface cease bleeding, and their extremities become impervious to the blood itself, but not to the coagu- lating lymph, which forms the general bond of union be- tween living parts. This uniting medium is the primi- tive and most simple connexion, that takes place between the two sides ofa wound. In many cases, however, where the wound is put into a state of apposition, before the he- morrhage has had time to cease, no doubt a coagulum of blood itself constitutes the first bond of union” and, as Wounds must thus be frequently united through the me- dium of red blood, the propriety of cleaning a wound from it so exactly as some surgeons do, may be called in ques- tion. The simple agglutination of the sides of a wound together, is what may be considered as taking place direct- ly they have been brought into contact. The next step, in the process of union by the first intention, is the genera- tion of vessels in the coagulating lymph, or blood, and this is soon followed by an intercourse between the vessels of the two sides of the wound. The manner in which the new vessels arise in the uniting medium,-as well as the way in which the inosculation of the divided vessels happens, are at present only matters of conjecture. Mr. Hunter conceived, that blood and coagulating lymph, as long as they retained the living principle, possessed the faculty of generating vessels within themselves, quite independently of any adjoining surfaces. In the growth of the chick, there are some appearances in favour of this opinion.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 69 The celerity, with which the process of union by the first intention is completed, is a circumstance that must excite the admiration of the philosophical surgeon. In the short space of seventy-two hours, the wound, produced by amputation of the thigh, is often securely united throughout its whole extent, without any suppuration, except just where the ligatures are situated. Incised wounds, of a moderate size, may in general be completely healed by this method in forty-eight hours. How dif- ferent then is the surgery of the present day to that of hall a century ago, when the bigoted prejudices of our an- cestors deterred them from doing, not only what was most salutary, but most simple! The complicated business of accomplishing digestion, incarnation, and cicatrization, is now reduced to the easy duly of bringing the edges of a clean cut wound into contact, and maintaining them so, until they have grown together. CHAP. XVI. PUNCTURED WOUNDS. PUNCTURED wounds are not only dangerous, on account of their frequently extending to a considerable depth, and injuring important blood-vessels, nerves, and viscera, they are also dangerous inasmuch as they frequent- ly give rise to very extensive inflammation. It is not un- common to see formidable collections of matter follow wounds of this description, especially when the instrument, w ith which they have been made, has penetrated any apo- neurosis, or fascia. Stabs, and all other punctures, are not simple divisions of the fibres of the body, they are at- tended with more or less contusion and laceration. Hence there is not the same readiness to unite, which we observe70 FIRST LINES OF THE in wounds made with sharp cutting instruments, and, when ligamentous expansions are among the objects of injury, both the structure ot the wounded parts, and the nature of the wound itself, often produce a train of severe local and constitutional symptoms. When an artery of consequence is punctured, the hemorrhage must be sup- pressed, either by exposing the vessel and tying it, or by applying graduated compresses and a bandage. The choice of these means must be determined by considera- tions, already hinted at in a preceding chapter. Immense agitation of the nervous system very often follows the in-? diction of a punctured wound, and this has been attributed to the injury o 1 tendons, or nerves. This doctrine is now almost quite exploded, as surgeons so frequently see nerves and tendons wounded without the occurrence of great constitutional disorder, in five cases out of a hundred. The explanation of tire fact, that great derangement of the system is very apt to follow punctured wounds, is not yet unfolded in a satisfactory manner ; but the fact itself is fully established on the surgical records of all ages, and the firm basis of daily experience. Punctured wounds are frequently very difficult and tardy of cure, on account of their being attended with the formation of deeply-seated abscesses and sinuses. The narrowness of their orifices also renders the extraction of any extraneous bodies by no means easy of accomplish- ment. TREATMENT OF PUNCTURED WOUNDS. In this part of practice erroneous suppositions have very commonly led to very serious abuses. The unlimited idea that the severe consequences of most punctured wounds are in a great measure owing to the narrowness of their orifices, induced numerous surgeons to practise, indis- criminately, deep and extensive incisions, for (he purpose of rendering their external communication considerablyPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 71 wider. To have constantly in view the conversion of such injuries into simple incised wounds, was always a maxim, strongly insisted upon, and set forth as the reason of the above method of treatment. The doct l ine even occasioned the frequent dilatation of punctured wounds by the still more absurd and cruel employment of tents. Certainly, if the notion were true, that an important punctured wound, such as the stab of a bayonet, is actual- ly changed into a wound partaking of the mikl nature ot an incision, by the mere enlargement of its oriticc, the cor- responding practice would be highly commendable, how- ever painful it might be. But the fact is otherwise ; the rouah violence done to the fibres of the body by the gener- ality of stabs, is little likely to be suddenly removed by an enlargement of the wound. Nor can the distance, to which the punctured wound frequently penetrates, and the number and nature of the parts injured by it, be at all altered by such a proceeding. These, which arc the grand causes of the collections of matter that often take place in the cases under consideration, must exist, whether the mouth and canal of the wound be enlarged or not. The time when incisions arc proper is when there are foreign bodies to be removed, abscesses to be opened, or sinuses to be divided. To make painful incisions sooner than they can answer any end, is both injudicious and hurtful. They are sometimes rendered quite unnecessary by the union of the wound throughout its whole extent, without the least suppuration. It is true, making a free incision in the early stage ot these cases, seems a reasonable method of preventing the formation of sinuses, by preventing the confinement of matter, and, were sinuses an inevitable consequence ot all punctured wounds, for which no incisions had been prac- tised at the moment of their occurrence, it would undoubt- edly be unpardonable to omit them. To many this may seem a very specious, and fair pretext tor making a lree/2 first lines of the incision to enlarge a punctured wound- Fair, however, as it may appear, it is only superficially plausible, and a small degree of reflection soon discovers its want of real so. lidity. Under what circumstances do sinuses form ? Do they not form only where there is some cause existing to prevent the healing of an abscess? This cause may either be the indirect way, in which the abscess communicates externally, so that the pus does not readily escape; or it may be the presence of some foreign body, or carious bone; or lastly, it may be an indisposition of the inner surface of the abscess to form granulations, arising from its long du- ration, but removable by laying the cyst completely open to the influence of the air. Thus it becomes manifest that the occurrence of suppuration in punctured wounds is onlv followed by sinuses in cases where the surgeon neglects to procure a free issue for the matter after its accumulation, or where he neglects to remove any extraneous bodies. But, as dilating the wound at first can only tend to aug- ment the inflammation, and render the suppuration more extensive, it ought never to be practised in these cases, but for the direct objects, of giving free exit to matteral- ready collected, and of being able to remove extraneous bodies palpably lodged. I shall once more repeat, that it is an erroneous idea, to suppose the narrowness of punc- tured wounds so principal a cause of the bad symptoms, with which they are often attended, that the treatment ought invariably to aim at its removal. , Recent punctured wounds have absurdly had the same plan of treatment applied to them as old and callous JislulcB. Setons and stimulating injections, which in the latter cases sometimes act beneficially by exciting such in- flammation as is productive of the effusion of coagulating lymph, and of the granulating process, never prove ser- viceable where the indication is to moderate an inflamma- tion, which is too apt to rise to an improper height. The counter-opening that must be formed, in adopting the usePractice of surgery. 73 of a scton, is also an objection. Why, however, should we mention the use of a seton ? What good can possibly arise from it ? Will it promote the discharge of forciga bodies if any are present ? By occupying the external openings of the wound, will it not be more likely to pre- vent it? In fact, will it not itself act with all the inconve- niences and irritation of an extraneous substance in tire wound ? Is it a likely means of diminishing the immode- rate pain, swelling, and extensive suppuration so oflen at- tending punctured wounds ? It will undoubiedly prevent the external openings from healing too soon ; but cannot this object be effected in a better way ? If the surgeon ob- serves to insinuate a piece of lint into the sinus, and pass a probe through its track once a day, the danger of its closing too sooii will be removed. The practice of enlarging punctured wounds by inci- sions, and of introducing setons, is often forbidden bv th* particular situation of these injuries. In the firststage of a punctured wound the indication is to guard against the attack of violent inflammation. Where no considerable quantity of blood has been lost, general and topical bleeding should be practised, in short, the antiphlogistic plan is to be followed. As no man can pronounce whether such wounds will unite, or not, and as no harm can result from the attempt, the ori- fice ought to be closed with strips of adhesive plaster, anti gentle compression applied along the whole course of the puncture. Perfect quietude is to be observed. When the pain is very severe, opium is to be administered. Sometimes under this treatment the surgeon is agreeably surprised to find the consequent inflammation mild, and the wound speedily united by the first intention. More frequently, however, in cases of deep stabs, the pain is intolerable; and the inflammatory symptoms run so high, as to leave no hope ot avoiding supp iration. In this condition an emollient poultice is the best local appU-74 FIRST LINES OF THE cation; and, when the matter is formed, the treatment must conform to the principles already noticed in tin- chapter on suppuration. CHAP. XVII. OF LACERATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. A LACERATED mound is one produced by a force that overcomes the attraction of cohesion among- the fibres of the body, by violently tearing the parts asunder. The edges of this kind of wound are irregular and jagged. A contused mound is occasioned by the collision of a blunt instrument againsta part of the body. Both these sorts of wounds are much more perilous than incised ones. Wounds made with sharp instruments are frequently attended with vast retraction of the divided parts, and profuse hemorrhage; but it is known, at the same time, that they are generally capable of being united by tire first intention. It is almost a constant effect of la- cerated and contused wounds to pour forth very little blood, even when important blood vessels have been injured. Whole limbs have been torn from the body without the oc- currence of bleeding. The experienced practitioner is not deceived by the absence of this symptom; for he knows that in proportion as the bleeding from large contused and lacerated wounds is trivial, the violence applied to the in- jured parts has been great. TREATMENT OF CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. In these wounds we do not find the same disposition to unite, which is observed in simple incisions. They are not mere breaches of continuity, but injuries attended will)PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 75 the application of such violence to (he divided fibre?, that suppuration, and even sloughing of some part of the wounded surface, are generally the consequences. From severe contused and lacerated wounds a rapid mortification often arises, which extends itself over a whole limb, and frequently occasions death. The inflammation attending lacerated and contused wounds seldom restricts itself to those moderate bounds, in which alone the process of adhesion can take place. Thus the advantageous prospect of union by the first intention disappears, and we arc left to promote a more circuitous plan of cure instituted by nature. The first indication is to remove extraneous bodies, the irritation of which always aggravates the local mischief ; and in these wounds extraneous bodies are much more fre- quently present than in wounds made with clean sharp in- struments. As the inflammation that follows is likely to be violent, it is proper to promote any moderate effusion of blood from the wound, and in bad cases even to employ the lancet. Though wo cannot expect that any considerable extent of contused and lacerated wounds will heal by the first in- tention, yet we know that it is advantageous to approxi- mate their lips, just as we do those of incised wounds. When a wound is left gaping, there is not only a larger ca- vity for nature to fill up, but no opportunity is afforded to any part of the wound that may be disposed to unite at once to do so. For it is to be observed, that different parts of wounds of this description arc injured by different de- grees of violence. In some places the violence may not totally prevent the effusion of coagulating lymph ; in some it renders suppuration inevitable; while in others, that have been most forcibly injured, sloughing must happen.- I am not intending to inculcate, that contused and lace- rated wounds are to be put in a state of apposition with the same exactness as incised ones. Their jagged and irregularFIRST LINES OF THE 76 ctl^es would render it impracticable ; and were it possible, the confined and compressed state necessary to maintain these edges perpetually in contact, would greatly aggra- >a(e (lie unavoidable ill effects of the ensuing inflamma- tion. It is only meant to represent the propriety of not leaving many wounds with their edges very distant asun- der ; and (o recommend the practice of applying, here and theie, a strip of adhesive plaster, that their cavities may not be so extensive and exposed. Until the edges and surface of these wounds assume a clean appearance, no application is so proper as ag emollient poultice. When all the sloughs have separated, and the secretion of healthy pus lias commenced, dry lint, or a pledget of sim- ple ointment, is all that is requisite. CHAP. XVIII. OF GRANULATIONS AND CICATRIZATION; GRANULATIONS are formed by an exudation of the Coagulating lymph from the vessels of the wounded or ex- posed surface. Into this substance, it is probable, both the old vessels extend, and in it new ones are formed, so •* that granulations become very vascular. The vessels of granulations pass from the original parts beneath to their bases, and thence towards their external surface, in almost parallel lines. Granulations have the same disposition to secrete pus as the'surface from which they were produced. The surfaces of granulations are very convex, having a great many points, or small eminences, so as to appear rough. The smaller these points are, the more healthy we find the granulations, The colour of healthy granulationsPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 77 is a deep florid red. When of a livid colour they are commonly unhealthy ; and such an appearance denotes that the circulation of the blood in them is languid. Po- sition produces this livid hue, by retarding the return of blood. This is the reason why some sore legs are so back- ward in healing, when the patients are allowed to stand and walk. Granulations when healthy, and situated on an exposed or flat surface, rise nearly to the level of the surrounding skin, and often a little higher ; but when they exceed this, and assume a growing disposition, they are unhealthy, be- coming soft and spongy, and losing the power of producing new skin. Healthy granulations are always prone to join with each cl her, and their vessels soon begin to inosculate. Granulations do not possess the powers of the original parts of the body ; and, consequently, are very subject to mortify, or be absorbed. These new substances must be supplied w ith nerves and lymphatics ; how tender they frequently are every one knows; and it is equally well known that medicines, ap- plied to the surface of ulcers, sometimes find their way into the circulation by means of absorption. Granulations partake of the same qualities, whether they grow from the surface of a bone, or of the soft parts. It is by the foregoing process that nature fills up the hol- lows of deep wounds, which cannot have their edo-es brought into contact, and it is by the same st»ps that she succeeds in filling up the cavities of abscesses. The worL, however, is not quite reducible to this simplicity. All modern practitioners observe, that as soon as the formation of granulations commences, the diameter of the wound be- comes diminished from every two points of its circumfer- ence, even before any new skin appears to be formed. 1 he natural elasticity of the skin, and the contraction of muscles, satisfactorily account for the separation of the7S FIRST LINES OF THE edges ol a wound. But how these edges become approxi- mated, during the granulating process, is not so well under- stood. It has been said that it arises from the diminution of the swelling that surrounds the wound. This is by no means a satisfactory explanation, because we know that the separation ot the edges proceeds from a ditferent cause, and takes place prior to the swelling, and immediately on the occurrence of the wound. Mr. Hunter attributed the beneficial effect to a contraction of the granulations. He says: u The contraction takes place in every point, but “ principally from edge to edge, which brings the cir- <c cumference of the sore towards the centre, so that the “ sore becomes smaller and smaller, although there is “ little or no new skin formed.” This contraction of granulations takes place in a greater degree, and has a greater effect, when there is a looseness of the parts on which they are formed. When they are formed on parts naturally fixed, as the scull, shin, &c. the contraction is impeded. This contraction of granulations is not confined to open wounds ; it takes place in the cavities of abscesses, which by this means contract, like the urinary bladder, till little or no cavity is left. When the granulations cannot con- tract further, if any cavity be remaining, it is obliterated by the opposite granulations growing into each other. Besides the contractile power of the granulations, there is also a similar power in the surrounding edge of the cica- trizing skin. As the granulations contract, the old skin becomes ex- tended over the part which had been deprived of skin. Mr. Hunter thought this elongation of the old skin not the mechanical effect of its being stretched, but the conse- quence of what he would term interstitial growth. The contraction of granulations appears one of the most beautiful examples for illustrating the wisdom with which the natural principles of our body have been established.79 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. By it the formation of much new skin is rendered unneces- sary ; a great advantage, as parts originally formed are much fitter for the purposes of life than those that are newly formed. By it, wounds which from chirurgical neglect, have lost the opportunity of uniting by the adha* sive inflammation, and others which must necessarily heal in a more circuitous manner, are ultimately brought almost into the same state as if they had been united by the first intention. The cicatrix, compared with the original breadth of the wound, is by this beneficial process often made as one to three. After the whole wound is covered with skin, the remains of the granulations beneath it will continue to contract, till hardly any thing more is left than what the new skin stands upon. This is a very small part, in comparison with the first formed granulations ; and it in time loses more of its apparent vessels, and becomes white, and like ligament. OF THE GROWTH OF NEW SKIN OVER GRANULATIONS. When a wound begins to heal by the granulating pro- cess, the surrounding old skin, close to the granulations, no longer discovers the glossy redness, about one-fourth, or one half, of an inch in breadth, which it previously shewed. The angular margin of the skin becomes con- verted into a roundish, smooth, and white boundary; and the nearer to the cicatrizing edge, the whiter it is. This white substance Mr. Hunter suspected to be a beginning cuticle. Skin is a very different substance, with respect to tex- ture, from the granulations, upon which it is formed. Whether it is a new matter, deposited on the granulations, and produced by them, or only the surface of the granula- tions themselves changed, is not easily determined. The new skin most commonly takes its rise from the ad- jacent old skin, as if elongated from it: but this is not re-80 FIRST LINES OF THE gularly the case. I remember a man who was dreadfully burnt over the greater part of his body, in consequence of which he had extensive sores, occupying nearly the whole surface of some of his limbs. When these ulcers had con- siderably diminished, the power of producing skin seemed to lessen at the edges, but, at the same time, new portions of skin made their appearance at various parts of these ulcers, standing (as Mr. Hunter ingeniously describes) upon the surface of the granulations like little islands. ■ Mr. Hunter was of opinion that this production of skin, in the centre of sores, never happened the first time of their being sores. In the patient just mentioned, whom I saw in Mr. Ramsden’s private practice, and attended along while, the contrary fact took place. In general, the surrounding skin seems to communicate the disposition to the surfaces of the adjoining granula- tions to form skin ; just as bones give an ossifying dispo- sition to granulations formed upon them. The new formed cutis is neither so yielding, nor so elastic, as the original. It is also less moveable, and des- titute of the furrows observable on the old skin. At first it is extremely full of vessels ; but afterwards both it and the granulations beneath become free from visible vessels, and therefore whi'e. The surrounding old skin is puck- ered into loose folds, while the new constantly retains a stretched, shining appearance. The production of cuticle from the new cutis is a much easier process than the generation of skin. The formation of skin is chiefly progressive from the surrounding cutis ; but the cuticle is frequently formed at once, equally from every point of the cutis. The rete mucosum is not so readily formed as the cuti- cle ; for in blacks a cicatrix remains whitish a consider- able time, and sometimes even throughout life.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. Si CHAP. XIX. GUNSHOT WOUNDS ARE produced by hard obtuse bodies, projected from some species of fire-arms, and violently penetrating the living solids. The differences of gunshot wounds are referrible to three principal causes. 1. The kind of body projected. 2. The velocity of the body. 3. The nature and peculiarities of the parts injured. 1. KIXD OF body PROJECTED. , Former surgeons seeing the terrible mischief frequently arising from gunshot wounds, entertained a suspicion that the injured parts were either dreadfully burnt by the heat of the projected body, or were irritated by the presence of poison, as well as by mechanical violence. The moderns, better acquainted with the component ingredients of gun- powder, rightly attribute the ill consequences of gunshot wounds to the violence, contusion, and laceration, indicted on the wounded parts. This violence, produced in ge- neral by such an obtuse body as a musket ball, and often done with immense velocity, cannot fail to be j reductive of a high degree of inflammation. Bullets are the most com- mon bodies shot into the injured parts; but the wound may be produced by cannon balls, pieces of broken shells, and, very olten onboard ofship, by splinters of wood. Large bodies of irregular figure, it is obvious, must occasion a greater quantity of mischief than such as are externally smooth, of a round form, and of moderate size. Pieces of clothes are often carried along with (he ball into the wound. But gunshot wounds, by what bodies soever produced, GFI 11,ST LINES OF THE S2 are always attended with contusion and laceration, by which most commonly some of the fibres immediately Sur- rounding the wound are deadened, and must be thrown of? in the form of a slough before the wound can heal. Hence gunshot wounds rarely admit of being united by the ad- hesive inflammation ; and on this same account they sel- dom bleed profusely, except when very considerable blood vessels are wounded. 2. VELOCITY OP THE PROJECTED BODY. Besides the figure and magnitude of the body impelled into the living solids, the velocity with which it .moves has considerable influence. This wc arc assured of by finding, when a ball has passed with little velocity (which is ofien the case with balls at their entrance, but most commonly where they are near their exit), that the wounds may often be healed by the first intention. At the entrance of the ball the circumference is usually depressed; at its exit prominent. On account of the parts surrounding a gunshot wound, being often deadened, the nature of the injury cannot al- ways at first be comprehended. Some viscus, a part of some large artery, or even a bone,, may have been deaden- ed by the violence; but the mischief does not manifest it- self till the separation of the slough takes place. When the ball moves with little velocity, there is always less sloughing than when it has penetrated with rapidity. When the divided parts have not lime to yield to the di- viding body, they must of course be proportionally bruised. , If the velocity of the bail be great, the direction of the wound is mure likely to be straight. .j. NATO nr; AND PECULIAitn IES OIT THE PARTS INJURED- When a gunshot, wound only injures soft parts of ordi- nary importance, if is lyrmed sunplc.- 83 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. When, at the same time, it fractures a bone, wounds a large artery, nerve, or important viscus, it is then called compound. OF CIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING- THE COURSE OF BALLS. The form, the momentum, and the direction of the shot that is received; the position, and the variety of struc- ture, or, in other words, the variety of density, and powers of resistance, in the part receiving it, are the grand agents directing the course of the ball, in its passage through the substance of the body. Every new resistance which a shot in motion meets with, operates so as to produce not only a diminution of its momentum, but also a change in its direction* By adverting to the above circumstances, the strange course which some balls lake, running nearly all round the body beneath the skin, is satisfactorily accounted for. QF GUNSHOT CONTUSIONS WITHOUT ANY EXTERNAL BREACH OF CONTINUITY. It has been a prevailing idea, that a ball may injure parts of the body in two ways, viz. by actually striking them, and by passing close to them without touching them at all. This last injury has been supposed to origi- nate from the violent commotion produced in the air by the rapidity of the ball. It commonly consists of a consi- derable contusion, and even comminution, of the soft and hard parts situated beneath the skin, which remains itself entire. The above mode of explaining how this violence is oc- casioned is too absurd to need a serious refutation. The slight perturbation of the air is too feeble to account for the degree of violence committed. The air, to which the ball must impart the greatest motion, is* that which is di- rectly bdore it; and yet this does not the smallest degree of violence to the parts surrounding the spot where the g 2FIRST LINES OF THE S4 ball enters, Cannon balls often strike limbs without the neighbouring parts being in the least hurt. There is as little foundation for attributing the injury to electricity, produced by the violent friction of the ball in the bore ot the gun, and said to be communicated to the injured part ; for metals do not become electric from fric- tion. It is highly probable the injury is caused immediately by the ball itself. Its occasioning a violent contusion without wounding the skin, or entering the limb, is to be ascribed to the sloping direction in which it first st rikes the surface. KINDS OK EXTRANEOUS BODIES USUALLY LODCED IN GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Extraneous bodies are more frequently met with in gun- shot wounds than in any others. They are commonly of three sorts: 1. Pieces of clothing, or other substances, which the ball has driven into the limb : 2. the ball itself: 3. or, lastly, loose, splintered portions of bone. Such foreign bodies are the causes of many bad symp- toms. They irritate the sensible parts, exciting pain, in- flammation, a disposition to hemorrhage, copious, and long-continued suppuration, &c. The more uneven, pointed, and hard such foreign bodies are, the more they arc apt to create these unpleasant occurrences. EFFECTS OF TIJE SHOCK OF SOME GUNSHOT WOUNDS ON THE NEIGHBOURING PARTS, AND THE WHOLE MA- CHINE. When a ball strikes a bone a concussion happens. If trivial, its eflect is limited to the seat of injury. Some- times the shock extends to the nearest articulation, where it occasionally produces inflammation and suppuration. When a cannon ball tears olf a whole limb, it may cause a concussion of the n hole body in a very violent degree.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 85 and an universal derangement of all the animal functions, instantaneous loss of all the senses, swooning, and incapa- city to move, arc the ordinary effects immediately pro- duced on the system by such a violent species of injury. Authors are even inclined not to limit the consequences of the shock to what I have stated ; but mention inflammation and suppuration of the liver, lungs, See. as sometimes en- suing from it. TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. The first thing in the treatment of a gunshot wound in one of the extremities, is to determine whether it is more advisable to amputate the wounded limb immediately, or to undertake the cure of the wound. When a bone, especially at a joint, is shattered into nu- merous fragments ; when the soft parts are, at the same time, extensively contused and lacerated, with injury of an important blood vessel and nerves : when the whole limb is thrown into a cold and insensible condition by the violence of the shock ; no resource is so safe as amputa- tion : and to delay, under such circumstances, would lead to almost certain death. But below this violent pitch of injury, in which the ne- cessity of amputation is visible to every eye, there are se- veral inferior degrees, where the soundest judgment is re- quired to form a prudent determination. In many of these cases the scale is so delicately ba- lanced, that an opinion is not to be formed from a consi- deration of the injury alone. The patient’s constitution ; the possibility, or impossibility, of procuring good accom- modation, rest, attendance, and pure air, arc matters that ought to have immense weight in dubious cases. Gunshot wounds rank as accidents. Every surgeon knows, that a man who has been long habituated to dis- ease, is more likely to bear an operation well than another*6 FIRST LINES OF THE man who is suddenly necessitated to part-with bis limb for an accidental injury, while be remains, in other respects, perfectly healthy. The perturbation into which the system is thrown by the sudden occurrence of an alarming local injury, is also urged as an objection to immediate imputation. These objections are, in some measure, well founded; and they ought to be allowed to have a certain weight in all cases where the propriety of amputating is a matter of doubt on other accounts; but I cannot agree that they ought to overrule every other consideration. First, let it be remembered, that in accidents of this na- ture there are only two periods at which amputation can be performed. The first is immediately after the occur- rence of the injury, before inflammation arises, and before a disposition to gangrene commences in the limb. This period only lasts a few hours; and when these have elapsed, the dangers of mortification and death must be laced. 1 o amputate when the limb is swollen, and in a stale approaching to gangrene, would only be to torture the last moments of life. If these immediate perils are got over, and the wound is brought into a state of suppuration, the violent inflamma- tion and swelling abate, and, while the patient’s strength yet remains adequate, the opportunity to amputate is once more afforded. This is another nice point, which demands the utmost discernment. By a prudent perseverance in the attempt to preserve the limb, the patient’s constitution sustains the labour, and success crowns the surgeon’s efforts. But an indiscreet anxiety to save a limb too often proves fatal; and the system, subjected to the ravages of copious suppu- rations, and of painful incisions for the discharge of matter and foreign bodies, sinks beneath the weight imposed Upon it.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 67 There are further reasons for preferring amputation to an attempt to preserve limbs that have been severely shat- tered by gunshot wounds. 1. By the operation the patient gets rid of a dreacful contused wound, which threatens the greatest peril to his very existence, and exchanges it for a simple incised wound. g„ The pain of the operation is not, upon the whole, a greater severity than the aggregate pain arising irom the inflammation, irritation of extraneous bodies, and incisions for their evacuation and that of matter, in cases where the effort is made to preserve the limb. 3. The loss of the limb ought not to be taken into the scale ; for the surgeon only amputates on the principle of/ saving the patient’s life by that privation, Y, hen life is at stake, and it is more likely to be saved by the operation than both life and the limb together without the operation, it is our duty to amputate. By this maxim, no doubt, a small proportion oi limbs that might lie preserved will be sacrificed, but the patient’s life will be more frequently saved. Limbs that are saved after such dreadful injuries, arc also very often not more useful than a wooden leg ; and the vigour of the constitution is oftentimes irrecover- ably lost for a limb that is rather a burden than a conve- nience. rilli DILATATION OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS BY INCISION, AND EXTRACTION OF FOREIGN BODIES, CONSIDERED. When amputation is not deemed necessary, the surgeon, according to the customary precepts., is to enlarge the aper- ture of the w ound by an incision. Numerous advantages have been said to result from such a dilatation- It has been said to facilitate the extraction of foreign bodies, to occasion a beneficial effusion of blood, and to promote the escape of fluids extravasated into the surrounding cellular substance. Dilating the wound by au incision has beenFIRST LINES OF THE absurdly supposed to convert the fistulous track of a ball info an open incised wound, and thereby reliefer its nature mine h-nign. Another good effect, supposed to result rom dilating a gunshot wound, was the division of un- yielding- parts, which confined, and thus aggravated the internal swelling. More modem experience, however, shews, that the uti- i j o t lese incisions lias been overrated. The knowledge ia. gunshot wounds are of very various description! ought at once to condemn the unlimited plan of dilatino- aH of them. When the course of the ball lies in soft parts'! and has neither touched a bone, nor a considerable blood vessel, whether the wound has one or two openings, the scheme ol dilating it is productive of no good. In gun- shot wounds the apert ure in (he skin is larger than in punc- tured wounds and stabs ; for in the former there is a real loss of substance in the skin, die part of which first struck by the ball is generally driven into the wound. By (he sepa- ration of the sloughs the canal of the wound becomes still more ciliated, so that not only matter, but foreign bodies, may find an easy exit. Moreover, incision's usually soon close again, and the wound becomes, in a few days, in the same condition as if no dilatation had been made. Gunshot wounds are only to be dilated when there is seme plain and beneficial object'to be accomplished by it. Ao doubt it is right to extract, at first, as many foreign bodies as possible ; for while they continue in the wound they always exasperate the inflammatory symptoms, and sometimes create agitation of the whole nervous system. By an early extraction of them profuse suppuration may mien be prevented. Vet let it be remembered, that the search for foreign bodies is frequently attended with great in nation ot (he wound ; and that ii is frequently impossi- ble to find, and extract them immediately, w hile they lie deep, and fast in the parts. When the wound becomes widened by the separation of sloughs, the foreign bodies ge-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 89 Tier ally grow loose, and,on both accounts, their extraction can t hen be more easily practised. AY hen t hey are deeply lodged, they often spontaneously approach the surface on the occurrence ol suppuration, Lastly, ii is to be ob- served, that foreign bodies, of smooth figure, have often been found to lie, without the least inconvenience, in parts from which they could not. possibly be extracted. Hence the surgeon acts wisely who seeks at first to ex- tract only such foreign bodies as arc near the external open- ing, and are loose, and removable without much irritation. When they make pressure on an important part, a large artery, a considerable nerve, or important viscus, so as to create violent and dangerous symptoms from this cause, an incision is warrantable to remove them, even when deeply lodged. If a large artery bleed, it is to be exposed and tied, as in other wounds. Sometimes when there is reason to expect a fracture of the skull, an incision may be judi- ciously made to examine the bone. Depressed portions of the sternmh and ribs may require incisions, just as the same injuries of the cranium. When the ball lodges in any of flic large cavities, inci- sions arc usually improper, because it is impossible to trace the foreign body, and therefore they answer no direct pur- pose. When the ball enters far into the substance of a bone, to dilate the wound would also be of no utility. But all that 1 have said upon this head is insufficient to guide the surgeon in all cases. If the dilitation of the wound, for the purpose of extracting foreign bodies, should be less likely to aggravate the inflammation than the pre- sence of those bodies, then it is highly judicious to put it into practice. In every case where the ball cannot easily be discovered, one may safely decide to abandon all painful and irritating examinations. Experience shews that its lodgment rarely creates trouble, or bad symptoms. Lead has been observed58 FIRST lines of the io irritate less (ban any other hind ot extraneous body.* Somc'imes, however, the ball may be so easily got at, that ! 0,;? ; U,ldoub^y «* extracted. In some instance, the ball remains on the side of the limb opposite to its en- trance, beneath the integuments. If the skin, under which £ a 15 lo(JoC(!) be contused in such away that it will probably slough, it is to be considered as a lifeless part, * • an opening is to be made into it for the extraction of the ball. But when the ball lies so (hr from theskin that one can omj, just feel i, and the skin itself remains uninjured, it is improper to make a counter-opening. Experience proves that, the wound heals much better when the ball is left alone, and that the chief inflammation is not in the vi- cinity of the foreign body, but about the month of the wound. In cases where a counter-opening had been made Mr. Hunter noticed that the same inflammation sometimes attacked it, which took place at the entrance of the ball. Such instruments as screws, gimlets, and bullet drawers, ought never to be used in extracting bullets. The fingers are commonly the most proper instruments; and when forceps are judged more convenient, they should not be of a large clumsy construction. AI though one might judiciously omit an incision to ex- tract a smooth, round body, like a leaden bullet, one might not always act w ith erjual judgment by doing so, when the extraneous body is of an angular figure, and large size, so as to be likely to cause immense irritation. i>ef ached splinters of bone are very irritating extraneous bodies. TV hen their extraction can be accomplished, con- sistently with the above principles, it ought never to be neglected. In gunshot wounds ligamentous bands sometimes appear to compress the tumefied parts beneath. But it is only when they visibly do so, that the knife should be employed to di, vide them, „ * Vide Encyclopedic Methodique, Partie Chirurgicalo91 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. DRESSINGS FOR GUNSHOT WOUNDS, AND CONSTITUTIONAL* treatment. From the degree of.contusion, laceration, and sloughing, produced in almost all gunshot wounds, no hope of union by the first intention can be entertained. If we except the employment of means to moderate inflammation, and the measures noticed in the preceding section, the surgeon is not required to take any very active part iu the treatment, at least during the inflammatory stage. The dressings are to be of the mildest description possible; a pledget of white cerate, and an emollient poultice, are the best applications. What good can introducing lint into the orifice ot a gun- shot wound produce ? Is this practice designed to prevent its closure ? If it is, the idea is absurd, as gunshot wounds are not very apt to unite by the adhesive inflammation. Fomenting the part, two or three times a day, with a de- coction of white poppies, deserves recommendation ; for it always diminishes pain, and consequently must have a good effect on the inflammation. The consolidation of a gunshot wound is the work ot nature. The steps she takes to effect it have been noticed iu treating of granulations. A suppurated gunshot wound is only an abscess, in which there are frequently extraneous bodies. To maintain a ready exit for the pus, and to remove all extraneous mat- ter that is loose, and sufficiently near the surface of the body, is all (hat the surgeon can usefully do. During the inflammatory stage, the application of leeches to the neighbourhood of the wound, and venesec- tion, are highly commendable. In short, every thing re- commended for inflammation is to be adopted. OF WHAT IS TO BE DONE WHEN A CANNON BALL HAS ' TORN OFF A LIMB. In this case some advise the amputation of the stump to procure the patient an eycn, smooth incision, instead of anFIRST lines of the irregular, jagged, and highly dangerous! wound. As the limb has sometimes endured a furious concussion, and is almost senseless and motionless, the bone beino- at the same time often split upward, it is also advised to perform am- putatioii, if possible, above the nearest joint. Others condemn the operation in this instance, on the ground that such wounds are disposed to end favourably without amputation, and that the state of the system does not admit of the operation being done with the best pros- pect of success. But as when the operation is not done, an irregular wound of this description requires considerable inbisions tor the extraction of foreign bodies, the discharge 6f mat- ter, and for the purpose of shortening the projecting mus- cles and tendons, the last objection to amputation is not extremely weighty. Such incisions would produce as much, and even more, irritation than amputation, without the production of equal good. Besides, Hie urgency for the operation is, in many cases, not so great, but that it mav be delayed till the irritability of the whole bodv, arising from,the injury, has subsided. Such wounds having been occasionally cured without amputation, evinces nothing more than that in a few in- stances it is not impossible to cure them without the opera- tion. J he surgeon may here more readily make up his mind to amputate, as the loss of a limb is not in question. However, the injury may, in particular case's, be so conditioned, that the performance of amputation would not only be unnecessary, but injurious. With respect to amputating above the nearest joint, this must depend on the distance of the injury from the articu- lation : n6 one would think of amputating above the knee when the acccident is situated near the ankle.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 93 r'*~ . i . CHAP. XX. OF POISONED WOUNDS. AS poisoned weapons are not made use of among civi- lized nations, and venomous animals are not numerous in this country, we have not many oppoilunilies of observing poisoned wounds. The most common wounds of this description are the stings of gnats, wasps, bees, and hornets. The bites of mad animals, and of the viper, are the most serious. It is highly probable that the poison, insinuated into wounds, does not always derange the whole system merely in consequence of absorption. 1 lie constitute.nal symp- toms would seem sometimes to happen per consensus, be- fore the local poison has had time to find its way into the circulation, as in the bite of the cobra de capello of the East Indies, and the American rattle-snake. Hence in the treatment of all severe poisoned wounds two chief indica- tions arise: 1. To prevent absorption of the poison and its alarming effects, either by quickly cleansing the wound from it, or by rendering its qualities inert. 2. To appease the sympathetic disorder of the constitution by medicines of the sedative and anlispasmodic kind. Various are the means that have been used to fulfil the first object. Scarifying and cupping the wound ; suc- tion ; the actual cautery ; setting fire to gunpowder placed in the part; different kinds of oil; powdered cantharides, and excision of the injured part, are the principal ones. The second indication demands the internal exhibition of opium, the volatile alkali, camphor, musk, and similar remedies. STINGS OF INSECTS. Bees, wasps, hornets, and other insects of this country,94 FIRST LINES OF THE produce, in consequence of their sting, a great deal of pain redness, heat, and swelling in the part affected; but the injury never gives rise to any .alarming symptoms. There is an extraordinary irritability in the skin of many per- sons, who invariably suifer more than the generality 0f mankind from the bites and stings of insects. / It is certain, that the sting of an insect is not simply a line puncture, tor, if it were, there could be no cause for such great local uneasiness as it usually creates. It is com- mon to believe, that the sting is left behind in the wound, and excites irritation. Whether this is the case, or not, we cannot doubt that the sting imparts to ihe wound some noxious matter which remains behind.*'’1' Lemon-juice, vinegar, Goulard’s lotion,-cold water, oil, and hartshorn, are the principal local applications recom- mended in ihece cases. As the symptoms obviously depend upon local irritation, such of the above remedies, as are best calculated to relieve it, ought to be selected. When the patient has been stung in many places, bleeding, mild jJHigatives, and low diet, ought to be prescribed. The stings of insects are generally injuries of too trivial a nature to demand the interference of a surgeon. BITE OF THE VIPER. The poison of the viper is lodged-in a capsule, situated at the root of two fangs in its upper jaw, and is pressed out when the animal bites. The bite of a viper is not invariably followed by the train of severe symptoms we are about to enumerate. This may depend on varies circumstances : the animal, just Myw»rlhy uni* ingenious friend Mr. Lawrence has reminded me ol the barbed shape of a bee’s sting, as corroborative of tiie opinion that it remains behi.pl. I have spoken in the above undecided way from knowing that a wasp can sting repeatedly, and from having seen its sting enter a thick glove, and be drawn out again several times suc- cessively. M lt~rn. / Jf . Qjh i.lv/topractice of surgery. 95 before biting the patient, may have bitten something else, so as to have emptied the poison-bags completely. The bite may have taken place through clothes, and great part of the poison may have lodged on them. Though the poison may be lodged in the wound there may be a tardiness of absorption, and the virus may there- fore be washed off by suppuration without having affected the constitution. Or the means made use of may ha"\c iC- moved it completely from the wound. The narrowness of the injury is, however, very unfavourable to any attempt of this kind. The bad symptoms usually commence in about twelve or fifteen hours. An acute pain, and a burning heat, are experienced in the,part affected, which begins to swell. I he tumefaction, tension, heat, and pain, gradually spicad over the whole limb, and, in some cases, the whole body is said to be swollen. Dejection of spirits ; smallness and weakness of the pulse ; headache, nausea, and vomiting ensue. A fixed pain is felt in the region of the heart, and all the surface of the body assumes a yellow tinge. The urine seems as if it were impregnated with bile. Cold per- spirations and convulsions take place, and death some- times finishes the tragedy. •The bite of the viper seldom proves fatal in this country. It might, however, kill a child, though it does not ge- nerally destroy an adult; for Fontana makes it appear probable, that the danger is in proportion to the smallness of the animal bitten. It has been attempted to investigate the nature oi the poison, but hitherto without any practical good. M e a;e told by Dr. Mead and Fontana, that it is neither of an acid, nor alkaline nature. Fontana suspects the faintness following the injury to proceed very frequently from fear, and he even thinks, it may have a considerable effect in occasionally producing death. For my own part, 1 do not concur in this condu- it)FIRST LINES OF THE 9o sion, since we have every reason to believe, that the poisons ot serpents are quite pernicious enough in their nature to account for every bad effect. They indeed oftentimes ap- peal to. operate on the system in a more sudden manner than through the medium of the absorbents ; whether we term it sympathy, or Compare the effect to thatnf electri- city, is ot little consequence treatment ok the bite of a viper. . The treatment is divided into the local and constitu- tional means. By the former we endeavour to prevent the 1 eftc‘?(s absorption - by the hitter we strive to appease the derangement of the system, arising either from absorp- tion ot the poison, or per co/i&ensum. 1. TREATMENT APPLIED TO THE WOUND. In the first section of this chapter I have explained vari- ous means for the purpose of preventing the ill conse- quences of absorption. The Abbe Fontana informs us, that tying a ligatureround the limb on the side of the wound towards the heart, was the only thing he observed to be uselul. 1 cannot give my approbation to this method which takes no step to prevent the poison entering the’ mouths of the lymphatics, but only stops it after it h;* en- tered, from proceeding beyond the ligature towards the thoracic duct. The ligature continued for a long time applied, must itself create considerable swelling of the limb, and very serious inconvenience. At length it is taiven awAy, and v, hat then remains to impede the pro- gress of the virus into the blood-vessels ? Excision of the injured part, as soon as possible after the occurrence of the accident, is, beyond a doubt, the most efficacious and advisable plan. All the other means designed to extract the poison completely from the wound, or to destroy its pernicious nature, as uncertain in their agency, ought always to yield the preference toexci- Me u l •97 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. sion of the part, especially when the fortitude of the pa- tient goes hand in hand with tlie advice.of the surgeon. Oil, when applied, must act either by its insinuating itself between the poison and the wounded surface, or by becoming blended with the virus, and rendering it inert. Powder of canthdrides produces a copious discharge of matter, by which the poison is probably washed out of the wound. The actual and potential cauteries must act in the same way as excision, by killing the part, and allowing the poison to be taken away when the slough separates. Perhaps, indeed, they may decompose the poison ; but they are not deemed of such certain efficacy as the imme- diate removal of the wounded part by the knife. Yet they are certainly preferable to every means, except ex- cision. Great care should be taken in excision to go deeper than the bite. I have heard it proposed to apply an alkaline lotion to the part affected, but I am not acquainted with any facts that would lead one d priori to expect particu- lar benefit from it. Indeed, the opinion of Fontana and Dr. Mead, that the poison is not of an acid nature, does not make it appear likely to do good upon a chemical principle. 2. CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT. Emetics have been very much extolled by Dr. Mead, for the relief they afford in bringing the nausea and sick- ness, arising from the bite, to a conclusion. But the testimony of almost all w riters decides in favour of medicines, that possess the faculty of allaying irrita- bility and promoting perspiration. The volatile alkali has obtained the greatest celebrity. Ten drops of the aq. ammon, pur. may be given every hour. Opium, musk, and camphor, are other medicines to which one may ad- yantageously resort. n/ . * 9* FIRST lines of the ' BITE OF A MAD DOG.—HYDROPHOBIA/ Of all the poisoned wounds (hat happen in this country, the bite of a mad animal is the most dangerous. The hy- drophobia has been known to originate from the bite of several mad animals besides dogs, especially (hat of cats, ■wolves, and cows. It even arises occasionally from the bite of an angry animal which is not actually mad. JTheie are some wed attested instances of its having come on spontaneously, and one of these is given in the first volume of the Medical Lssays, where hydrophobia oc- curred during an inflammation of the stomach. W hat so frequently occasions the peculiar madness in dogs has not yet been ascertained. The hydrophobic poison resides in the saliva of the mad animal, and there- fore, when a person is bitten through a boot, or other clothing, the danger is much diminished by the chance, that the poison may have been wiped from the teeth before they penetrated the skin. All the symptoms, which ensue in consequence of the bite of a mad animal, are^ very slow in making their ap- pearance. Hence we may infer, there is a considerable ck probability of preventing them in aM cases. However, we can only expect to prevent, for when hydrophobia has come on, the instances of a cure are so few, that we can place no vast degree of confidence in any medicine hither- to tried. That something does prevent the disease in many cases is very certain ; for only a few are seized w ith hy- drophobia out of great numbers that are bitten by almost every mad dog. Dr. Kush, and some other respectable practitioners, are ot opinion, that hydrophobia bears a very strong resem- blance to tetanus. SYMPTOMS OF HYDROPHOBIA. J he peculiar symptom of this disease, from which itsPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 99 name is derived, namely, the dread of water, is usually preceded by others. The disease is properly divisible into two stages; the melancholy, and raving* 1. melancholy stage. I have mentioned, that the bad symptoms are usually tardy in making their appearance, and even the local in- jury often heals as favourably as any other wound, attend- ed with an equal degree of contusion and laceration. A dull heavy pain first takes place about the wounded part, which swells and becomes hard. If the wound is in the hand the pain and numbness gradually proceed up- ward to the axilla. But long before any unpropilious changes occur in the neighbourhood ot the wound, a gloom is diffused over the spirits. The patient becomes anxious, sleeps unsoundly, and loves solitude. I think the latter circumstances may be rationally imputed to the alarm of mind, and not to the operation of the canine poison. . 2.' RAVING STAGE. This may be said to commence with the horror of water. The patient not only becomes unable to swallow liquids, but cannot behold them without terror, nor hear them mentioned without disgust. Every effort to swallow fluids occasions an intolerable sense of suffocation, and the attack of violent convulsions. The patient, incapable ot swal- lowing his own saliva, spits it out, and an oppressive dry- ness Of the mouth and throat is produced. It is very ex- traordinary that dry things can often be swallowed with- out the smallest difficulty. The muscles of deglutition are affected with excruciating pain, which gradually extends itself to the diaphragm, and abdominal muscles. Convul- sion and pain of the muscles continually augment: the patient’s countenance is full of horror, and his eyes look ‘ . n 2100 FIRST LINES OF THE red and furious. The patient sometimes, notwithstanding such symptoms, retains his senses to the last. TREATMENT OF HYDROPHOBIA. As no medicine, hitherto known to the medical world, is capable ot infallibly counteracting the baneful effects of the canine poison, practitioners arc strongly called upon to inculcate upon the mind of the patient and his relations, the necessity of doing whatever is most likely to prevent file system from being affected. As a preventive, surely nothing is more rational, nothing is so forcibly indicated, as the excision of the part bitten immediately after the accident. In all poisoned wounds, the adoption of other steps to prevent the system from be- ing affected, is inferior to the obvious efficacy of excision. It is well known, that a young gentleman of rank in this country, not many years ago, died of hydrophobia, though, caustic was applied as a substitute for the excision of the parts. No man of conscience, or discernment, would neglect to urge in strong terms the use of the knife. In every case where there is strong suspicion that the bite is inflicted by a mad animal, common prudence dic- tates a complete removal of the wounded parts by the scalpel. Practitioners chiefly decide in favour of employing, in- ternally, medicines of the antispasmodic and diaphoretic sort. Camphor, musk, the volatile alkali, and belladonna, are the principal ones used. The cases, on which the preventative virtue of such me- dicines is founded, are all however very questionable and inconclusive. In general, before these are given, -stepsare taken to free the wound from the canine poison. Hydro- phobia also only happens in a small proportion of those patients who are bitlen ; and the animal is frequently not mad when it is supposed to be so. 4PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 101 When the system is affected the event is almost always fatal. As the symptoms of hydrophobia are visibly attend- ed with a disposition to spasm in the muscles, some pal- liation may be reasonably expected from the above class of medicines. But as the disease is of a. most violent nature, no considerable benefit can be expected unless they are ad- ministered in large doses. Opium, in such doses as are given in tetanus, may very properly be administered in conjunction with the medicines named above. The treat- ment, after the constitution is once affected, may render the journey to the grave more comfortable, but it is perhaps never efficacious enough to restore health. Plunging the patient in the sea, or cold bath, and keep- ing him under the water till nearly drowned, is frequently practised with a view of preventing the disease. Mercurial frictions have also been employed, both be- fore and after the system has become affected. JEther might perhaps be serviceable, when the consti- tutional symptoms have commenced.* \ -• ' • i . CHAP. XXI. AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVOUS AND MUSCU- LAR SYSTEMS, AND MATERIA Vlr£M, IN CONSEQUENCE OF WOUNDS. WOUNDS are sometimes followed by very extraordi- nary symptoms, and such as we can often only attempt to explain, by referring them to the effect of local irritation * The rest of the subject of wounds, will be arranged with particular surgical subjects in Part 2.1&2 FIRST LINES OF THE on a particular state of tlic constitution. In the affection to rvhich I allude, the sanguiferous system is not princi- pally disturbed, as it is in the sympathetic inflammatory lever ; nor do the symptoms seem to bear any proportion to the quantity oflocal injury. ; The chief symptoms in question are, restlessness; vigi- lance; sudden dejection of the .spirits; unaccountable prostration of strength ; delirium ; spasms and convul- sions ; retention of urine ; vomiting ; cholicky pains; palpitations of the heart; coldness of the surface of the body ; oppression in the chest; difficulty of swallowing ; locked jaw ; tetanus, &c. I have seen a man die almost instantaneously after the amputation of his leg, although the operation was adroit- ly performed, the patient not particularly debilitated, little blood had been lost, and there were no appearances on dis- section to account for the sudden catastrophe. Violent emotions of the mind ; the irritation of foreign bodies in the wound; the application of a very tight bandage ; the distention of the wound with lint the im- proper position of the limb, or part; the inclusion of large nerves, and too much flesh, in the ligatures on the arteries; the employment of sutures, &c. are circumstances to which nervous and spasmodic symptoms may be occasionally ascribed. Sometimes these complaints are connected with irrita- tion, not situated in' the wounded part. Worms in the alimentary canal, and the disordered state of the abdomi- nal viscera, together with a local irritation of a wound, may seriously agitate the nervous system. In narrow punctured w ounds of tendinous parts, alarm- ing nervous symptoms are particularly likely to occur, and do not admit of very satisfactory explanation. But, though the causes may puzzle the curiosity of mankind, the fact, is now firmly established by the records of all ages. Authors have adverted to several circumstances, which103 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. certainly add to the danger attendant on such injuries . for instance, they notice that suppuration frequently takes place in the sheaths of the tendons, so that the matter can- not make its way to the skin., and therefore not only causes considerable local irritation by producing distension, but also increases the concealed mischief by diffusing itself in different directions. No reasoning ot this kind however can satisfy a philosophical, much less a sceptical mind. We see violent nervous, spasmodic, tetanic affections, take place without any matter, blood, See. being confined by ligamentous, or tendinous expansions; we see the same complaints sometimes take place in extensive muscular w ounds, though not so often as in narrow tendinous ones ; and, lastly, as the most dreadful wounds are sometimes exempt from such constitutional symptoms, it is obvious tiiat all efforts to explain the cause by the nature ot the in- jury must prove unavailing. Some further remarks, relative to this subject, will be found in a future chapter, on the bad symptoms occa- sionally originating from the wound made in venesection. From the following account of tetanic disorders, it will appear probable, that in some cases tlie nervous system, and maleriaxitce, are first disturbed by the local complaint, and that this disturbance exists, and increases afterwards independently of the local in jury ; perhaps, in consequence of some peculiarity of the constitution, or what amounts to the same thing, the particular condition in which that constitution exists. In general, however, the train of symptoms, enumerated above, require the employment of such means as diminish the local irritation, and tend to sooth nervous and spasmo- dic complaints. TETANUS. The complaint is sometimes idiopathic, in which case the treatment belongs entirely to the physician. Though 8FIRST LINES GF THE ' 104 tetanic disorders occasionally affect all sorts of persons, they seem to attack those of middle age more frequently than the old, or the young ; the male sex more frequently than the female ; the robust and vigorous more frequently than the weak; and the inhabitants of warm climates much more frequently than those of cold ones. When the disease arises in consequence of a wound, it does not com- monly make its attack for many days after the accident; very often, when there is neither pain nor uneasiness in the wounded part, and very frequently when the wound is even quite healed. The disorder is said to be more com- mon in situations near the sea, than in inland countries. If a wounded person, in a warm climate, expose himself to the cold nocturnal air, he is particularly subject to the disease. In the majority of cases tetanus is the consequence of wounds, generally of stabs in tendinous parts, and of in, juries of the fingers and toes. It must be clear, however, from the preceding remarks, that the wound is not the sole cause, and that the disorder would in general not take place if the wound were not in a particular situation, the patient not of a peculiar temperament, nor under the influ, ence qf climate, &c. „ SYMPTOMS. The muscles of the lower jaw first become hard, and in- cessantly contracted, so that some difficulty is experienced in moving the part. At length the patient cannot open his mouth at all. The muscles concerned in deglutition are oftentimes the next affected, and the difficulty of swallow- ing makes the complaint bear some resemblance to hydro- phobia, The muscles of the neck, back, and indeed of the whole body, become successively affected with the most rigid spasm. The limbs are stiff and immovable, and (he muscles of respiration being prevented from performing their office, the patient dies. The symptoms are sometimes rapid sometimes slow inPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 105 their progress. In the first case the patient scarcely e\ei recovers. If he survive the fourth day his chance of being preserved is greater than before that period. Tetanic af- fections never recede except by slow degrees. When the spasms are violent and general, the pulse is hurried and irregular, so is respiration. The heat of the body is commonly not increased, and very often the ex- tremities are cold. The head is seldom affected with deli- rium, or the least confusion of thought, until the last stage. The digestive functions of the stomach arc not much im- paired. Sometimes the urine is suppressed, or is voided with difficulty and pain. The bowels are generally costive, perhaps in consequence of the opium commonly adminis- • tered. The pupil is neither particularly contracted nor dilated, and except during the violence of the spasms, the sleep is not much interrupted The hlood taken away iu tetaniccases does not exhibit the inflammatory crust. VARIETIES. 1. Opisthotonos, when the body is thrown back by spasmodic contractions of the extensors of the spine and head. 2. Emprosthotonos, when the body is spasmodically bent forward : this is extremely rare in modern times. 3. Trismus, or the locked-jaw. 4. Pleurosthotonos, when the body is affected only on one side. TREATMENT. As the disorder frequently makes its attack after the wound is healed, and, most commonly, when there is no great degree oflocal irritation ; as also topical means seem to have very little, if any, influence over the constitutional disturbance ; we are led to conclude that, after the symp- toms have once come on, there is little or no connexion be ween them and the original local cause. The estab-106 FIRST LINES OF THE lishment of tliis point is of tile highest importance, for it shews the absurdity of amputating the wounded part cn- • largmg the wound, and making it inflame bythcappHca- lion ofstimulating dressings. If certain constitutional means only avail in a limited, proport ion of cases; if only the same degree of success at- icnd the combined effect of removing the wounded part, and administering internal medicines ; we must infer, that t ie operation had no influence whatever, and, as causing superfluous pain, and the loss of a finger or limb, it ought not to have been undertaken. Whoever wjll take the trouble of reading such cases as have been brought forward to prove the efficacy of removing the part, or enlarging the wound, will easily perceive, that nothing more is proved than that the cure was accomplished in this way in a li- mited number of instances, and generally with the assist- ance of internal medicines; that, the proportion of suc- cess is not greater than when only constitutional means were adopted ; that though these operations probably do not considerably diminish the chance of preservation, ex- cept when a whole limb is amputated, yet there is no evi- dence of their being at all useful. The symptoms ot tetanus are of a spasmodic nature, and the remedies should therefore be antispasmodic. Opium is the piincipal one; but it must be given in unusually large doses, in the quantity ot at least a grain every two houis. It is curious, that although this medicine be given so liberally in these cases, it never produces any great propensity to sleep, nor any ill consequences. If the spasms abate, the opium must not be suddenly relinquished. Half an ounce of laudanum, in a clyster, has sometimes stopped the progress of the disorder. Opiate frictions may also be employed on the cheeks, temples, and neck, when the muscles about the jaw are chiefly affected, and oa the back in universal tetanus.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 30» The operation of opium maybe aided by combining this medicine with such others as any particular symptom may indicate. When the perspiration seems suppressed, the warm bath, blisters, camphor, volatile alkali, musk,anti- monial wine, and small doses of antim. tart, may be tried. When there is evident debilily, bark, the cold bath, and the liberal use of wine, are recommended in conjunction with the opium, which must always be considered as the grand medicine. * Some practitioners have tried the effect of salivation, on the supposition that the mercurial action on the constitu- tion might alter that condition of the system with which tetanus is evidently connected. Little, however, can be said in favour of the plan. All the best writers on this subject condemn evacuations ; but clysters and aperient medicines may, now and then, be administered to remove the constipation caused by the « opium. There never can be any difficulty in conveying food and medicines into the stomach, now that surgeons arc so well acquainted with the uses of hollow bougies. I am not unaware that Mr. Abernethy has suggested the propriety of attending to the state of the chylopoietic or- gans in tetanus ; 1 know that Dr. Hamilton endeavours to make it seem probable that the utility of purgative medi- cines might be extended to this disorder; but from the ex- tensive trial of purgative medicines already made in this disease, from the complaint not attacking particularly un- healthy subjects ; and from the regularity of the digestive organs, so particularly noticed by all writers ; I am afraid that these suggestions present but a very faint prospect of practical benefit.}#8 FIRST LINES OF THE CHAP. XXII. ' • / - X CONTUSIONS. A CONTUSION is an injury occasioned by (lie im- pulse of a blunt instrument against any part of tile body, the skin remaining unlacerated. The consequences of such violence are a diminution of the tone of the injured fibres, and a rupture of an infinite number of small vessels. The bruised muscles are weak- ened, and cannot be exerted without pain : and the extra- vasation of blood causes swelling, and discolouration of the skin. Sometimes Vessels of considerable size are rup- tured by the force, and very copious accumulations of ef- fused blood are the result. In contusions of the head we often see the scalp enormously elevated by hemorrhage be- neath it, and large collections of blood are frequently found exlravasated in the cellular substance of almost any situation in the body. Very violent contusions not only affect parts on which the force immediately falls, they extend eveu to such as are remote from the place which was struck. The second sort of contusion is what the French have termed a contre-coup, in which the injury is to be imputed to the elfect of a for- cible concussion. The mischievous effects of a contusion are not always proportioned to the force applied ; they often depend on the nature of the injured part. If the bruise take place on a bone, which is thinly covered with soft, parts, the latter always suffer very severely in consequence of being wound- ed, at the time of the accident, between two hard bodies. Hence bruises of the shin so frequently cause sloughing, and troublesome sores.PRACTICE OF SURGERY, 1C9 treatment. Slight contusions may be considered as occasioning only a weakness of the bruised vessels, and a degree of extra- vasation in the part. Any corroborant, astringent appli- cations, suffice for tln^se accidents. The injured parts are to have linen, moistened with vinegar, cold water, brandy, lime-water, solutions of alum, or ot acetite of lead, ap- plied to them. When muscles are bruised, they ought to be relaxed, and kept perfectly quiet. Nothing is more conducive than quietude to the restoration of their proper tone. Rest, one of the above mentioned topical remedies, and a dose of any mild purgative salt, generally complete the cure of ordinary bruises. When the contusion, however, is of a more violent de- scription, and the quantity ot extravasation is consider- able, bleeding, and other evacuations, are proper. The topical applications should be such as are mildly stimulat- ing, and, consequently, such as are adapted to excite the action of the absorbents. Sal ammoniac, dissolved in equal parts of vinegar *and water, or the aq. amnion, acel. forms an excellent lotion. When the inflammation has subsided a little, liniments containing camphor may be used. In cases where there is no danger of serious inflamma- tion, and the chief indication is to promote the absorption of extravasated fluid, bandages act very beneficially, by the remarkable power which they have of exciting the ac- tion of the lymphatics, by means of the pressure which they produce.FIRST LINES OF TI1E 110 lchap. xxiii. POLYPI. A POLYPUS is a fleshy excrescence, growing- on it thin pedicle, which is named its root. As it may arise in many parts of the body, it seems proper to class it with general disorders. Although it is most frequently met with in the nose, uterus, vagina, rectum, meatus audito- rius extern us, and maxillary sinus, it may undoubtedly originate in other situations. Similar excrescences even grow from the surface of the skin itself. The polypus of the nose is the most frequent of all, and is principally of three kinds. 1. Sometimes the tumour is red, soft, and sensible, but free from pain, and, in every respect, like a piece of healthy flesh. This is named the fleshy polypus. It is the most common, and, fortunately, the most benign of all. 2. In other instances the swelling is hard, scirrhous, and painful, and is then denominated the malignant polypus. It is said to be even capable of con- version into carcinoma. It may cither be malignant from its very origin ,-or from being of a mild description at first, it may have subsequently assumed this unfavourable dis- position. 3. The third kind of polypus is properly named by Richter the polypus of the mucous membrane of the nostrils.* It is very tough ; its colour is pale; and there is a viscid secretion from its surface. At particular periods, and especially when the weather changes, it un- dcraoes an alteration of its size. In fact, the tumour con- sists of the mucous membrane of the nostrils, which is elongated at the part affected into the shape of a polypous * Iu German schlcimpolypc.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ill tumour, and the disease rather merits the appellation of a prolapsus of the Schneiderian membrane than of a poly- pus. The whole membranous lining of the nostrils be- comes occasionally thus relaxed and thickened, so as to ftnder these cavities quite impervious : a case partaking of the same nature as what has been named the polypus of the ‘mucous membrane. Though such are the principal varieties of nasal polypi, tliere exist others, which, however, are less common, and important. Some are quite pale, soft, and brittle. - Some are hollow,-and resemble a membranous pouch, containing a fluid, or matter of a slimy, pulpy, or even denser con- sistence. These bear a great similitude to encysted tu- mours, and are termed vesicular polypi. Some polypous tumours are quite smooth, some knotty, while others have long appendages attached to them. The fleshy polypus may grow at any part of the cavity of the nose; but it most frequently takes its origin from the ossa spongiosa. Sometimes the body of the tumour is situated in the nostril, while its root is firmly fixed in the ductus nasalis, the sinus frontalis, or the antrum maxillare. A polypus can naturally have only one root. But it oc- casionally happens that the tumour is adherent to several parts of the Schneiderian membrane, especially when the disease has acquired much magnitude, and the lateral pa- rietes of the nose are pressed and inflamed. The inexpe- rienced may mistake such adhesions for roots. The ex- crescence is originally always shaped like a pear ; but af- terwards it adapts its figure gradually to the form of the cavity in which it is situated. As long as this kind of polypus continues small, it occa- sions but little inconvenience. The patient usually sup- poses that he has caught a tedious cold ; for in damp weather the tumour swells, and obstructs the nose. In a dry atmosphere it shrinks, and then such complaints cease. This state, however, lasts only a short time. TheFIRST LINES OF THE ns polypus becomes gradually larger, so as at length to fill the nose incessantly, and even to cause an external protru- sion. The excrescence projects forward into the nostril; extends backward to the throat, where it has more space ; and, in general, soon enlarges in such a manner thatitaev quires the form of a cylinder, which terminates, before and behind, in an irregular protuberance. The anteriour pro- tuberance expands the nostril, and occasions great defor- mity ; the posteriour one obstructs deglutition, and, ulti- mately, respiration. The polypus, still continuing its progress, elevates the ossa nasi, and separates them from each other; it hinders the passage of the tears into the nose, and thus produces a fistula lachrymulis; and it pushes the septum nasi towards the opposite side, thereby creating not only great deformity, but also a gradual clo- sure of the other nostril. In a still more advanced state it distends powerfully the whole cavity of the nose, giving rise to severe pains, which, extend over the greatest part of the head; exciting inflammation, and ulceration of the Schneiderian membrane, and causing caries of the sur-» rounding bones, together with a most fetid discharge. It is easy to discern, that when the necessary measures are de- layed the disease may at last acquire an incurable pitch, and from the extent of the caries even prove fatal. Some polypi are very prone to bleed profusely, and thereby they not unfrequently cause excessive debility. TREATMENT OF THE FLESHY POLYPUS QF THE NOSE. » f A solution of sal ammoniac, frequently injected into the nostril, is asserted to have effected a dispersion of the tu- mour. But this practice cannot have been attended with much success ; for it would soon have superseded the ne- i cessity of adopting more painful measures. / EXTRACTION. Polypi may either be extracted, tied, or destroyed byriL\CTIC£ OF SURGERY. caustic. Extraction is the most common, and proper. This operation is performed with forceps constructed for the purpose. Their blades arc perforated by holes, and are internally rough, in order to take hold of the tumour more firmly. The handles should be rather long, m order that the instrument may be more firmly closed, and more conveniently twisted. Forceps are, however, not applicable to all cases, lhe anteriour part of the polypus is sometimes quite hard, and distends the nostrils so much, that when the forceps arc in- troduced the blades are so separated from each other by the part of the tumour which is between them, that the in- strument cannot be introduced sufficiently far to take hold of the tumour at a proper depth; or it introduced to a proper depth, it cannot be closed. In such cases one might, perhaps, advantageously make use of a pair of forceps, the blades of which may be separated, and put together again at the joint, and diverge from each other behind the joint, and touch again at their extremities. After separating the two pieces, the blades might be sepa- rately introduced, and then joined together again ; and the anteriour indurated portion of the polypus might lie in the interspace, without preventing the closure of the in- strument. It is of importance to take hold of the polypus close to its root; for in this way the whole tumour is commonly extracted, and there is less danger in regard to hemorrhage, which is naturally more profuse when the polypus is broken at the thick, middle, part of its body. This plan may easily be pursued when the polypus is not too large, But in many instances the tumour is so large, and the nostril so completely occupied, that it is impracticable to get hold of the root. In this circumstance it is often al- together impossible even to discover where the root lies. "VVe must then take hold of the polypus as high as possi- ble, and attempt to extract it. The tumour sometimes i114 FIRST LINES OF THE gives way at its root, even although the anteriour part is taken hold of; but in other cases ihe polypus breaks where it is grasped, a portion being left behind, and a profuse hemorrhage ensuing. The latter event is void of danger, when the surgeon immediately introduces the forceps a&ainjgrasps the remaining piece, and extracts it. This is the most infallible method of diminishing the hemorrhage. In this way a large polypus is frequently extracted piece- meal, without any serious loss of blood. After the polypus has been propelled as far forward into the nostril as it can be, by blowing strongly through the nose, its anteriour part is to be taken hold of by a small pair of common forceps, held in the left hand, and is to be drawn gradually and slowly out, in order to make room for the introduction of the polypus forceps. The more slowly we proceed, the more the polypus is elongated, the narrower it becomes', the greater is the space in the nostril for the introduction of the polypus forceps, and the higher can this instrument grasp the tumour. After it has grasp- ed the polypus as high as possible, it is to be twisted slowly round, and at the same time pulled outward till the tumour breaks. It is a very important rule rather to twist than pull the instrument, and thus rather to writhe the tumour off than drag it out. The longer and more slowly the po- lypus forceps are twisted, the more the place where the ex- crescence separates is bruised, the less is the danger of he- morrhage, and the more certainly does the tumour break at its thinnest part. When the polypus has given way, an examination should be made whether any portion remains behind. When the polypus is very narrow at the place where it has hroken, and when the patient can breathe freely through the nose, there is reason to presume that the polypus has given way at its root. -The finger, however, or the probe, when this cannot be introduced, obtains the most certain Information.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. H5 The danger of hemorrhage may always be lessened, as was before mentioned, by slowly twisting the polypus at its root, instead of pulling it directly out. When only a portion of the tumour has been extracted, the surest mode of checking the bleeding is to extract the remaining part without delay. If, when the polypus has given way at its root, the bleeding should be profuse, we may first try ice- cold water, or brandy, which may be injected into the nose. If the hemorrhage should still continue, it may always be checked to a certainty, how copious soever it may be, in the following manner : Roll a considerable piece of lint round the end of a probe; wet it completely through with a strong solution of zincum vitriolatum ; introduce it into the nostril, and press it as strongly as possible against the part whence the blood issues. As soon as the blood ceases to flow we may conclude that the pressure acts on the bleed- ing point. This plan is almost invariably successful. When the source of the blood lies very deeply in the nostril, it might be difficult to direct pressure precisely against it. At all events, we may then pass a piece of cat- gut through the nostril, and bring it out of the mouth by means of a pair of forceps ; a roll of lint may next be fastened to the ligature, and drawn through the mouth into the nose, so as to completely stop the posterior aperture of the nostril. The front opening may be filled with a suffi- cient quant ity of lint. It is generally deemed prudent only to attempt the ex- traction of such polypi as are of a pale, greyish, 01 light- brown colour ; are trivially, or not at all, painful, unless when pressed; increase in damp rveather, and diminish m dry ; move backward and forward in respiration ; and round the anteriour part of which a probe may be freely passed. We are advised not to extract those which arc attend* d i 2TIRST LINES OF THE ■vvith pain in the forehead, and root of the nose j which have been from the first extremely red, and always continue of the same dimensions; which either bleed spontaneously 01 lorn the slightest causes; which sometimes create pain, are fixed in the nose, and cannot be moved backward and forward in respiration ; and, lastly, which are hard to the touch, produce a fetid discharge, and will not allow a probe to be passed with freedom round their anteriour portion. The reason assigned for this inculcation is the impossi- nlity of extirpating such polypi completely, and the dan- gei of irritating a malignant disease, so as to convert it into carcinoma. However, there is certainly truth in the following remarks made by Richter on this subject : It is not to be denied that polypi of the first description may generally be easily extracted with little pain, because they are small, no where adherent, and in every respect benign. It is equally certain that polypi of the latter kind generally cannot be extracted without difficulty ; they are large, complicated with adhesions, and bleed pro. fusely. But is a patient thus afflicted to be left without as- sistance ? When the polypus is so large that its root can- not be got at, its anteriour part is to be taken hold of, and the tumour extracted piecemeal. Experience does not prove that the polypus, which often bleeds profusely, is apt to occasion a violent hemorrhage in the operation; and even if it should do so, powerful measures may be adopted with a certainty of success. If the polypus should be here and there adherent to the membrane investing the nostrils, it is proper to separate it before the operation; Richter recommends for this purpose the introduction of Jong, flat, thin, pieces of tortoise-shell. The only ground on which the operation becomes im- proper is the malignant nature of the polypus ; so far I differ from Richter, and coincide w ith Pott. But I am ofPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 117 opinion with the former, that adhesion, immoveableness, ulcerations, disposition to hemorrhage, &c. are not ade- quate causes for leaving the disease to itself. Sometimes the greatest part of the polypus extends back- ward, hanging down behind the palatum molle, towards the pharynx. When only a little of the polypus is visible in the nostril, the extraction must be performed backward in the throat. This is usually accomplished by means of a pair of curved forceps, which arc to be introduced through the mouth, in order to seize and tear off the tumour as high as possible above the soft palate. Care must be taken not to irritate the epiglottis, or else a vomit- ing and coughing are excited, which disturb the opera- tion. When the polypus cannot be taken hold of pro- perly, some advise dividing the soft palate, a thing that can very rarely be necessary. As in this method the poly- pus is not twisted, but pulled away, the hemorrhage is com- monly copious. If a fragment of the tumour should remain behind, it may in general be extracted through the nose. When the polypus is situated both in the throat and the nostril, the above mode of operating might also succeed. However, as its anteriour part would often continue at- tached, and require being, after all, removed through the nostril, it is best to operate at once in this manner. An- other reason for twisting off the anteriour part of the poly- pus first, is, that the mass in the throat is often rendered so loose that it can be easily extracted. Whenever it is con- jectured that the polypus will come away in two pieces, it is always preferable first to extract the part in the nostril, and afterwards that in the throat, because the separation of the last is constantly productive of most bleeding. Some- times the following plan succeeds in detaching the whole polypus at once. Both the part in the nostril and that in the throat are to be firmly taken hold of with forceps, and drawn at first gently, and afterwards more forcibly, back- ward and forward, until the tumour gives way.1,8 FIRST lines of the Polypi are very apt to grow again, especially when airy portion is left behind. LIGATURE. The extraction of nasal polypi being constantly attend- ed with hemorrhage, wliich is sometimes profuse, another more modern method of cure has been put into execution. This consists in tying the root of the tumour with a liga- ture, by which means the polypus is thrown into a state of inflammation, suppuration, and sphacelus ; and at length becomes detached. A silver wire is to be introduced through a double eanula, so as to form a noose at the up- per end of the instrument, proportioned in size to the ante- riour part of the tumour situated in the nostril. The two ends of the wire are to hang out of the two lower apertures of the double eanula, and one of them is to be fastened to a small ring on its own side of the instrument. The polypus is next to be taken hold of with forceps, and drawn a little out of the nose. The noose is then to be carried over the forceps and polypus into the nostril, care being taken to draw out the loose end of the wire gradually as the instrument is introduced further. Silver wire is more easily applied than any other kind of ligature, on ac- count of its elasticity. When the noose has been carried as far as possible over the polypus, the loose end of the wire is to be drawn out at the lower end of the eanula, and rolled round the little ring on that side of the instrument. Thus the proper degree of constriction on the root of the polypus may be produced. The wire must be tightened every day until the tumour has separated. The ligature is attended with so many difficulties, that the forceps are infinitely preferable in the majority of cases. Hemorrhage is the only inconvenience for which extraction is abandoned ; and this, as was before stated, is far less dangerous than is represented. The inconveniences of thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. ' 119 ligature are much more serious and numerous. The litter mode of cure is always accomplished with much less expe- dition. When the polypus is so large as to fill the whole nostril, it is generally impracticable to introduce the noose sufficiently far. The figure of the polypus renders it al- most impossible to tie its root; for the tumour commonly expands very much before and behind, and the wire must be carried over the posterior part of the polypus ere it can be applied to its root. In general the noose includes only the front part of the polypus, while the root and back portion remained untied, and consequently do not become detached. The polypus nasi is commonly very sensible, so that ty- ing it proves severely painful. The constriction not only makes the polypus inflame, but the whole extent of the Schneiderian membrane. The pain and inflammation often extend to parts at some distance; such as the throat, eyes, &e. and considerable fever is excited. When the polypus is tied it swells very much* and all the complaints which it previously caused are exasperat- ed. In particular, the part situated in the throat is apt to create such impediment to deglutition and respiration, that prompt relief becomes indispensable. This sta’e is reliev- ed by scarifying the tumour, the size of which dimi- nishes as the blood is evacuated. During the detachment of the polypus the fetid dis- charge must be washed away by repeatedly injecting a so- lution of alum into the nostril. •i * CAUTERY. The cautery, formerly recommended for the cure of the polypus nasi, is now almost entirely rejected j and, in- deed, in the manner it was customary to use it, little good could be done. It was applied to the anteriour surface of the tumour in the nostril; and its employment was repeat- ed every time the slough separated. Its action could na-*20 , first lines of the turally be only of small extent, as it only came into con* tact with a trivial portion of the polypus. The only cases in which it might be proper still to em- ploy the cautery, arc those in which the polypus is dis- posed to bleed profusely from the slightest causes, and in which the patient, owing to debility, cannot bear the further loss of blood. There are a few very uncommon cases, also, in which this plan might be practised instead of extraction, in consequence of the tumour having liga- mentous connections. In employing the cautery the object is not to effect by its direct agency the gradual destruction of the polypus, but to excite such an inflammation, suppuration, and mortifi- cation, of the whole of the excrescence as will lead to this event. A heated trocar is to be introduced through a ca- nula into the middle of the tumour. Injections into the nostril ought also, in this plan of treatment, to be repeat- edly made when the discharge commences. \ CUTTING INSTRUMENTS Have always been reprobated, because they usually occa- sion a profuse hemorrhage, and can hardly ever be passed far enough into the nose without doing mischief. Yet. there are instances'in which their use might be productive of advantage. The front of the polypus is sometimes so thick and hard, that it is utterly impossible to introduce the forceps for the performance of extraction, or the ca- nula for the application of the ligature. In such a case, it might be a judicious step to cut off the front of the po- lypus. Polypi of the mucous membrane of the nostrils, mere relaxation of that part, may be benefited by astringent in- jections, containing alum, muriate of ammonia, &c. Ex- traction is never applicable to them ; but when necessary, »nd the thing is possible, they may either be tied, or cut away.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 121 YVhen the Schneiderian membrane fs universally swollen, and the nostril is quite obstructed, the pervious state of the cavity is to be restored by the introduction of catgut. At first a very slender piece, and afterwards a larger and larger one, is to be used. Some advise using flexible tubes. POLYPI OP THE UTERUS Are of three kinds, in respect to situation. They cither grow from the fundus, the inside of the cervix, or from the lower edge of the os uteri. The first case is the most fre- quent, the last the most uncommon. Polypi of the uterus are always shaped like a pear, and have a thin pedicle. They are almost invariably of that species which is deno- minated fleshy; hardly ever being scirrhous, cancerous, or ulcerated. The polypus growing from the fundus uteri is very dif- ficult to detect in its incipient state. While small it pro- duces not the smallest perceptible change in the organs of generation. As it enlarges it distends the. uterus, and often excites a suspicion of pregnancy, which, however, a more attentive investigation soon dispels. The swelling of the abdomen does not take place in the degree, and space of time, which it docs in gestation ; the menses continue to flow: the breasts do not become full; and, in the pro- gress of the case, no motion is to be felt. While thapo- lypus lies in the uterus i!s growth is slow. Even at this early period it frequently occasions profuse bleeding. Wo- men afflicted with the disease are seldom pregnant: and when they are so, parturition commonly happens prema- turely. Sometimes, however, delivery takes place in the regular manner. As the polypus increases it expands the os uteri, and at length protrudes into the vagina. Sometimes this event is preceded by pains similar to those of labour. When the tumour has arrived in its new situation, as it is no longer*22 FIRST LINES OF THE compressed by the uterus, it begins to grow more rapidly, and occasion far more troublesome complaints. It presses the bladder and rectum, and thus is apt to disturb the eva- cuation of the urine and faeces. But, in particular, it causes repeated and profuse hemorrhages, which weaken the patient exceedingly, and often bring her to the brink ot the grave. The root of the polypus is situated in the os uteri, and is there so compressed, that the blood in tha tumour is prevented from returning through the veins ; consequently all the vessels become turgid, and the above effusions of blood are the result. Though these generally cease spontaneously, the least circumstances cause their re- currence, even slight concussions of the body in walking, See. In the mean while a quantity of mucous and aqueous fluid is voided, by which the strength is still more reduced. The polypus, the source of this blood and mucus, is fre- quently misunderstood, and, the patient is in a perilous state. Hence the propriety of always examining per xa- ginam in cases of preternatural discharge from the uterus. After the polypus has remained some time in the vagina, it at length protrudes from it externally. Now it again ex- cites additional grievances. As it cannot descend so low without dragging the fundus uteri downward with it, and occasioning a prolapsus of that organ, a very painful sen- sation is generally experienced in the pelvis in standing, or walking. As the bladder and ureters are also forced into a deranged position, the evacuation of the urine is disturbed or impeded. The flow of the urine over the po- lypus, frictions, &c. frequently in this state cause it to inflame, become painful, and even to ulcerate. The polypus situated in the vagina, or protruding ex- ternally, may easily be mistaken for a prolapsus uteri. This serious error may as easily be avoided. The polypus is softer, and less sensible, than the uterus in the state of prolapsus. The imperfect prolapsus uteri, in which this viscus is not turned inside out, is betrayed by theostincae.123 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. which is plainly perceptible at its lower part. In this situation the polypus may, indeed, occasionally have a de- pression, resembling the os tincae, but easy of discrimina- tion from it. A probe can be introduced deeply into the os tincae, but not into the other sort of aperture. The po- lypus resembles an inverted pear, that is, it is thickest below, and becomes gradually thinner upwards. The above species of the prolapsus uteri is thinnest below, and gradually increases in width upward. A probe may be introduced by the side of the polypus deeply to the fundus uteri. When passed by the side of the fallen uterus it is very soon stopped. It is much more easy to distinguish a polypus protruded externally, from a perfect prolapsus of the uterus without inversion. The os uteri at once characterizes the uterus, as it can here not only be felt but seen. A probe maybe passed deeply into the vagina along the side of the poly- pus, but not so by tbe side of the uterus. Besides, the figure of each kind of tumour betrays its real nature. The inversio uteri is commonly the consequence of a dif- ficult labour, and hence is in general easily discriminated from a polypus. W hile the inverted uterus lies in the vagina, its shape is broad above and narrow below ; where- as the polypus is thin above and broad below. For this reason, in cases of very large poly pi in the vagina, the os uteri is little dilated, while it is extremely distended by the incomplete descent of the inverted Uterus itself. When the inverted uterus hangs out of the vagina, its figure, like that of the polypus, is thin upward and broad downward, and, like the latter tumour, has no aperture at its lowest part. Here an erroneous opinion has often led the way to the most mischievous practice, that of ampu- tating the uterus itself, on the supposition of its being a polypus. It is to be observed, that the inverted uterus includes a circular fold at its upper part, next to the orifice of the vagina. This fold is actually the os uteri itself, 10t'-H FIRST LINES OF THE through Which the body of the viscus has descended* A here is nothing of this kind to lie felt in cases of polypi. rJ he finger, or probe, may be introduced deeply into the vagina along the side of a polypus, but not so along the side of the uterus. The root of a polypus is firm and hard ; the upper thin part of the uterus, being hollow, has a soft flabby feel. Difficult labour, the common cause of the inverted uterus, also throws light on the case. Po- typb situated either on the inside of the cervix, or at the margin of the os uteri, soon protrude into the vagina, and when large produce all the complaints above mentioned, except frequent profuse bleedings. These seldom occur, because the root of the tumour suffers no constriction in the os uteri. As such polypi descend out of the vagina, they occasion a prolapsus uteri without inversion. Uterine polypi, when once extirpated, are not so prone to be reproduced as those of the nose are. They ought never to be pulled off', as the attempt might produce a pro- lapsus uteri. A few instances occur, in which they might be conveniently twisted off. This is sometimes the case when the pedicle is very thin, or after the ligature has been applied a certain time. The ligature is the most proper means of extirpating uterine polypi, and is here much more easy of application than in the nose. That a polypus cannot be tied, while it lies in the uterus, is easily comprehensible. But, as soon as it has descend- ed into the vagina, the operation is practicable. The most convenient mode of applying the ligature is by means of two silver canulaa.* It is hardly necessary to * See Plate 2. A strong ligature is to be introduced through both canul®, so that its two ends hang out of the lower apertures of the tubes (fig. 1.) C, D, while its middle portion forms a noose between ,tl;e two upper apertures, A, B. Both the tubes are to be introduced to- gether to the root of the polypus. One is then to be kept stationary, while the other is to be conveyed round the polypus to the oppositeriaPRACTICE OF SURGERY, 125 mention bleeding, injections, clyster,&c. may be proper after the ligature is applied. When a polypus, having a pedicle attached to the fun- dus uteri, suddenly falls down, it occasions an inversion of this viscus. In order to relieve, as speedily as possible, the great pain and danger of this case, the surgeon must tie the root of the polypus as soon and as firmly as he can, and then amputate the tumour below the ligature. The uterus is to be reduced immediately afterwards. This is almost the only instance in which a cutting instrument can be employed with advantage in the present kind of case. Fleshy excrescences sometimes grow in the vagina, some of which have a broad, and others a thin basis. The last merit the appellation of polypi, and may be tied by means of a double canula, when situated deeply, and with the hand when they are near the mouth of the vagina. Polypi may grow in the oesophagus, and cause an impe- diment to deglutition. They can only be tied when capa- ble of being brought into the mouth by exciting an effort to vomit, and even then with difficulty, as the patient’s side of the canula, which is not moved. The ligature being properly applied, in this manner, its ends are to be introduced through the little double cylinder E (fig, 1.), which is only one-third of an inch long, but so wide as to be capable of being pushed over the two canukr, a b, c d, with the fingers as far as the letter g, and with the fork (fig. 3), quite to the letter l, (fig. 2,) or letter o, (fig. 4.) Then ano- ther double cylinder, through which the ends of the ligature have been introduced, F, (fig. 1.) and wide enough to pass over the long double canula;, is to join together their lower ends (M. fig. 3). The ligature is then to be drawn tight, and fastened to the rings. Herbiniaux has recommended placing pieces of thread, of various colours, on the lower ends of the ligature, with certain interspaces be- tween them (•«, n, n, n, fig. 2), in order to ascertain how thick the root of the polypus is, and how fast the cure proceeds. This engraving is taken from one in Richter’s Avfangsgr. dcr Wun- darzn. The ligatures are to be tightened gradually, as they become uteck by the destruction of the root of the tumour.FIRST LINES OF THE 126 respiration being obstructed by this state, the opportunity is only a momentary one. When such tumours are si- tuated far down the oesophagus their removal by an oper- ation is impracticable. Polypous excrescences in the rectum may also be tied with the aid of a double canula, and more easily with that of the two single ones. .Ex- crescences in the meatus auditorius may be extracted, or cut off, if near the outer part of the ear. CHAP. XXIV. ULCERS. ULCERS present themselves in very various forms; but I think it is sufficient, in a general view of the subject, to consider four kinds : viz. the healthy, the irritable, the indolent, and the specific. However, before proceeding further, it seems right to state, that sores of every description are chasms, or breaches formed in the substance of the body by a process, termed ulceration, in which the absorbents of the part remove the old particles back into the system more quickly than the new ones are laid down by the secerning arteries ; or some- times sores are the consequence of wounds, which have not united by the first intention ; or they are the immediate result of the separation of mortified portions of the body. 1. HEALTHY ULCERS. Healthy ulcers secrete white, thick pus, which does not adhere to the surface ; and their granulations are small, florin, and pointed at top. As soon as the granulations have risen to the level of the surrounding skin, those next the old skin become smooth, and covered with a thin semi-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 127 transparent film, which afterward becomes opaque, and forms cuticle. An ulcer, answering this description, is in a healing state, and the surgeon can only be useful by keeping the surrounding skin clean ; applying soft scraped lint to ab- sorb the redundant quantity of matter, and covering this simple dressing with a pledget of any unirritating oint- ment, with a view of preventing evaporation from the sur- face of the sore ; a thing which would lead to the forma- tion of a scab, and often change the favourable condition of the ulcer. A roller may be applied, unless it should seem to act perniciously ; in most instances, it not only serves to re- tain the dressings and as a kind of defence to the sore, but also to support the muscles and skin, which are fre- quently loose and flabby, from the want of natural exercise of the limb. 2. IRRITABLE ULCERS. Irritable ulcers cannot always be known by their ap- pearance, though, in many instances, they can be so dis- criminated. A sore will invariably partake very much of the nature of the constitution, and when this is known to be irritable, the local complaint will also be often found to be so. A surgeon, however, is frequently quite unaware of this quality of an ulcer under his care, until, perhaps, at the end of a little time, not finding the sore heal sufficient- ly quickly, he ventures to apply some stimulating appli- cation, or to roll the bandage round the limb more tightly than before. The next day he is mortified to find that his patient has passed a miserable night, and several dis- coloured sloughy places have formed on the surface, and also at the circumference of the sore. At other parts the granulations have been rapidly absorbed, and whatever matter lies on the surface of the ulcer, is diminished in quantify, and of a blackish, fetid quality. When the ex-FIRST LINES OF THE \2& c'cllent plan of treating many ulcers', recommended by Mr. Baynton, was first introduced into practice, I saw much mischief result from the method being very often indiscri- minately applied by dressers to the kind of ulcer under consideration. y borne appearances at once shew the ulcer to be of an ir- ritable kind. When the margin of the surrounding skin is jagged, and terminates in a sharp, undermined edge; when the bottom of the ulcer is made up of concavities of different sizes ; when there is no distinct appearance of granulations, but only of a whitish spongy substance, co- vered with a thin ichorous discharge; when touching the surface causes pain, and very often hemorrhage ; the sore maybe set down as an irritable one. Irritable sores are particularly often situated over the lower end of the fibula, the anterior surface of the tibia, and ligament of the patella. The applications to irritable ulcers should be of the se- dative kind. The steam of warm water acts very benefi- cially on these cases. A warm decoction of poppy-heads, applied every morning and evening, as a fomentation, by moans of flannels, is highly useful. The extract of hem- lock, or opium, dissolved in hot water, makes a very use- ful fomenting liquor, w hen the irritability is great. Emollient poultices may be employed as the continued application,, and that made of linseed is the best. ■ It is frequently particularly serviceable to lay immediately over the surface of the sore, under the poultice, lint dipped in a solution of opium (3ifs. to Ifej. of water). When the weight of the poultice seems to have a bad effect, the lint wet with the above lotion, may be covered with a pledget of simple ointment. The carrot poultice, particularly when made by boil- ing the vegetable, and beating it into a pulp, deserves to be noticed, as a remedy which agrees with as many irrita- ■ hie sores as any tiling known. /PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 129 Powdered carbon and cream have obtained repute for their good etFects on irritable ulcers. It is of great use, in these cases, to have a choice of remedies ; for those, which agiee at fitst, generally los~ their virtue after being used a certain tune, and it become^ necessary to have recourse to others. Thus six or seven different applications may all have a period, at which they are productive of benefit. Bandages, so used as to make pressure, are always per- nicious to irritable ulcers; 3. INDOLENT ULCERS. The appearances of indolent ulcers are, as Mr. Home observes, the very reverse of those characterizing irritable ones. The edges of the surrounding skin are thick, pro- minent, smooth, and rounded. The granulations are smooth and glossy; the pus is imperfectly formed, and is blended with flakes of coagulating lymph, which adheres so firmly to the surface of the ulcer that it can hardly be wiped away. The bottom of the sore forms almost a level, and its general aspect, as Mr. Home describes, gives the idea of a portion of the skin, and parts underneath, having been for some time removed, and the exposed surface not having commenced any new action to fill up the cavity. This is the most genuine indolent ulcer; in other cases the appearances bear some resemblance to those of that op- posite kind of sore, the irritable one. Indolent ulcers form the majority of those which are to be seen in the large hospitals of this metropolis. Their granulations are endued with a weak living principle, and are very apt to be suddenly absorbed without any assign- able* cause. When poultices are improperly applied a long time to indolent ulcers, the chasms w ill be filled up with large, loose, pale, glossy granulations, which would never ac- K130 FIRST LINES OF THE quire the power of forming a durable cicatrix, if the same relaxing treatment were to be continued. These weak un- healthy granulations, when stimulated by topical applica- tions, undergo a considerable change, becoming smaller, jnoic compact, redder, and free from their glossy appear- ance ; and the cicatrix, which follows, is more apt to con- tinue healed, than when the sores have been healed by re- laxing applications. Solutions of lunar caustic ; touching the surface of the ulcer with the caustic itself; diluted nitrous acid; the unguent, liydrarg. nitrat. ; and the unguent, hydrarg. ni- trat. rubr.; and supporting the sore and the neighbour in a- skin and muscles with a roller; are the best means w hich were used for healing common indolent ulcers, before Mr. Baynton laid before the public his very successful me- thod. This gentleman’s practice consists in applying strips of adhesive plaster round the limb, so as to cover the sore, and, at least, one inch of the parts both above and below the ulcer. The strips of plaster are to be two, or three, inches broad, and long enough to surround the limb, and leave an end about four inches long. The middle of the strip, so prepared, is to be applied to the sChnd part of the limb, opposite the inferior part of the ulcer, so that the lower edge of the plaster may be placed about an inch below the edge of the sore; and the ends are then to be drawn over the ulcer with as much gra- dual extension as the patient can well bear. As many strips are to be applied in this manner as will cover the whole surface of the sore, and one inch of the limb below and above it. Soft compresses are to ba laid over the part; and the limb from the foot to the ankle is to be rolled with calico bandages. The affected parts are then to be kept moist with coldPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 131 spring Mater, which enables the surgeon to remove the strips of plaster without hurting the patient, and at the same time keeps oft inflammation. The advantages of this method are now fully confirmed by repeated trials ; the prominent edges of the sore become levelled ; the opposite sides are approximated, so that the cicatrix is rendered smaller than it would otherwise be ; the patient can be cured while walking about; and the new formed cicatrix is stronger, and more likely to con- tinue sound, than after the old method of treatment. 4. ULCERS WITH SPECIFIC ACTION. By a specific ulcer, is implied one which is complicated with some peculiar morbid action, owing to the state of the constitution, or to the disposition of the part affected. The varieties of such ulcers are almost numberless, and baffle description. Scropliulous and venereal sores are specific, and arc noticed in other chapters of the present work; cancer and the noli me temgere, which are also con- sidered in a different place, partake of a specific nature. Inveterate ulcers, into which many venereal local affec- tions change, after the syphilitic action has been destroyed, are specific; but as they are mentioned in the chapter on the venereal disease, nothing further is requisite to be said concerning them in the present one. All that I propose to do now is to point out a few spe- cific ulcers, which cannot be noticed elsewhere in this pub- lication. Ulcers occur on the instep and foot with a very thick- ened edge, and a diseased state of the surrounding skin, very similar to elephantiasis in appearance. Mr. Home observes, that he has several times met with these ulcers in such servants of opulent families, as have led indolent lives, and lived freely. In cases of this sort the ht/drar- gjjrus sulphuratm ruber is recommended by Mr. Home to be used as a fumigation. Tn some instances, an ointment k 2FIRST LINES OF THE 132 composed of calomel and hog’s lard', or of the ung. hj- rircrg. nit. mixed with camphor, is said to answer better than any other application. A class of irritable ulcers, situated in the vicinity of the ancle, attended with enlargement of the joint itself, and surrounded with a degree of thickening, arc much bene- fited, according to Mr. Home, by poultices and fomenta- tions, containing the conium maculatum. There is a kind of ulcer which does not extend deeper than the cutis, but spreads in all directions. The specific morbid action does not continue in the parts which have ulcerated, but only affects the edge of the skin, where the ulcer is increasing; for the surface, first affected, heals, while the parts beyond arc in a state of ulceration. For such ulcers, of which there a re-several varieties, a solution of the argentum nit rat am is the best application. The last specific ulcer, which I shall here notice, is the fungatccl one. Jt is seen on the calf of the leg and sole of the foot, shooting out a fungus from the surface. The new-formed substance is externally broad, and narrow at its root; it is tender, and bleeds from very slight causes. The disease in its origin somewhat resembles ascrophulous affection of the metatarsal bones, until the skin ulcerates, and the fungus protrudes. One species of this ulcer contaminates the lymphatic glands in the course of absorption ; another kind docs not so. The first case cannot be cured by the internal and ex- ternal use of arsenic ; the second may. From threc-to ten drops of a solution, made by boiling white arsenic in water for several hours in a sand heat, may be given internally. For external use, 3j of this so- lution is diluted with ibj of water, and the mixture may bc gradually made stronger, till it is of double strength.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 133 CIIAF. XXV. 0 J encysted tumours. THESE swellings consist of a cyst, in which is con^ tained a matter, very various in its appearance and con- sistence. Sometimes it is soft, sometimes quite fluid, and in other instances hard, and even ossified.* W hen the matter is fluid, like honey, the tumour is named melicens ; when of a pappy quality, atheroma; when fatty, steatoma. These swellings have a soft or hard feel, according to the nature of their contents; but the consistence of the con- tained matter cannot always be ascertained by the touch, especially when the cyst is very thick. Sometimes the cyst is very thin, sometimes very thick, but in general, though not always, its thickness is pro- portioned to its age. It is often quite firm, like parch- ment or cartilage ; and it commonly contains only one cavity ; however, this is frequently insected by several par- titions. Sieatomatous tumours sometimes consist of several contiguous cysts, which may easily be separated from each other. Encysted tumours are usually situated immediately un- der the skin; but occasionally they form in deeper situa- tions. Such swellings, especially steatomatous ones, fre- quently attain an enormous magnitude. At first they are constantly moveable, and probably would continue so, if all external pressure were kept from influencing them. I» time they become immovable, that is, they become ad- herent to the skin and subjacent parts. The surgeon may either discuss these tumours, or ex- * When the skin ulcerates, some of this sort protrude and appear Ji;e horns. * '134 FIRST LINES OF THE tirpate them. Their dispersion cannot be accomplished in the majority of cases, and this does not seem extraordinary Avhen we recollect that the contents are often a thick, un- vascular matter. Besides, even if it were in our power to bring about the absorption of what is contained in the cyst, still the cyst itself would remain, and its extirpation would be required. After promoting the absorption of the contents of en- cysted tumours, or after discharging them by an opening, it has indeed been recommended to obliterate the cavity of the cyst altogether, by making its opposite sides grow together by means of external pressure. But there is al- ways some risk in irritating encysted tumours, and cases arc not wanting in the records of surgery, by which it is proved, that such diseases are in this manner very capable of being converted into fungous and inveterate ulcers, and even carcinoma. The most successful applications for discussing en- cysted tumours arc such as contain sea salt, sal ammo- niac, &c. The best practice, however, is the operation by which the swellings are cut out. The art of doing this with adroitness consists in dissecting the parts, surrounding the tumour, without wounding the cyst. If (lie latter accident, occur, tlie contents frequently flow out, the cyst collapses, and the continuance of the dissection is attended with more difficulty. It is a great point to remove every par- ticle of the cyst, and hence it is satisfactory to take it out entire, that is, without wounding it. 'When any portion remains behind, the wound will frequently not heal, in con- sequence of fungous granulat ions, arising from the diseased part. Unless the swelling be large, a single incision through the skin is sufficient; but in other instances it is advantageous to make two cuts in this manner () ; first, because it facilitates the removal of the tumour; secondly, because it prevents a redundance of skin, which would take135 PRACTICE OF SURGERY, place if none were removed, and would greatly retard the cicatrization of the wound. After the operation, the edges of the wound are to he brought together with sticking plaster, and a compress and bandage are to be applied. CHAP. XXVI. SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. FLESHY tumours, not contained in a perfect globular cyst, like that of the foregoing swellings, have received this appellation. They are of very various kinds, and conse- quently every attempt to devise appropriate names to dis- tinguish them is at least laudable. Mr. Abernethy, whose ingenuity is ever active in the advancement of medical science, has published a classifica- tion of tumours, and to him we owe the plan, of applying to the various species of sarcoma, terms deduced lrom their anatomical structure. 1. COMMON VASCULAR, OR ORGANIZED SARCOMA. Under this title are comprehended all tumours, which appear to be composed of the gelatinous part of the blood, rendered more or less vascular by the growl h of vessels through it, without having any distinguishable peculiarity of structure. This kind of organization in tumours is the most simple, and, perhaps, may always precede other de- scriptions of structure. Vascular sarcoma not only makes its appearance as a tumour, which is altogether extraneous in regard to tire136 FIRST LINES OF THE original fabric of the body: it also enlarges natural pads, particularly the testis, mamma, and absorbent glands. . W!len this sort of’ swelling lias attained a considerable size, the superficial veins become quite varicose. If left to itself, the tumour generally grows till the skin is so dis, tended that it ulcerates, and exposes the new-formed sub- stance, which sloughs and falls out. The disease might be got rid of in this manner; but such are the constitutional irritation attending if, and the fetor and frightful appearance of the part, that the rest of the swelling is generally removed by ap operation, 2. AE1P0SE SARCOMA, Fatty tumours are exceedingly common, and are gener, ally surrounded with a very thin capsule, which is only slightly connected to them by means of vessels. Adipose tumours generally grow in a regular, slow, and progressive manner ; their vessels are neither large nor numerous. Hence the removal of these swellings is attended with little danger from hemorrhage, and they are very easily sepa- rated from the surrounding parts. When they have beoq inflamed, howeyer, the detachment is more difficult. O. PANCREATIC SARCOMA. This is the term which Mr. Abernethy applies to such sarcomatous tumours, as resemble the pancreas in their in- ternal structure. The substance of which they consist is composed of ir- regular-shaped masses. These are connected together by a fibrous kind of texture. This species of sarcoma is some- times formed distinctly in the cellular substance, but most commonly occurs in the female breast, perhaps originating in the lymphatic glands. Abernethy mentions a case, in which the lymphatic glands beneath the jaw were affected with pancreatic sar?practice of SURGERY. 13' coma. This sort of tumour increases slowly, and is not prone to inflame and suppuraic. The morbid structure in question frequently takes place in the breast, a little above, and on that side of the nipple which is next to the arm. In general the disease is chronic, and does not involve the absorbent glands in the vicinity. But in a few instances this species of sarcoma, when situat- ed in the breast, deviates from its ordinary indolent natim-, and occasions severe and lancinating pain, an inflamma- tory state of the integuments, and an adhesion of them to the tumour. The axillary glands also enlarge. Pancreatic sarcoma is sometimes so irritable a disease, that Mr. Abernethy thinks it may frequently be considered as a cancer. When the glands in the axilla become affect- ed, one generally swells at first, and is extremely tender and painful ; afterwards the pain abates, and it remains indurated; another then becomes a fleeted, and runs through the same course. Dr. Bouttatz, of Moscow, has published an account of a tumour, which resembled the pancreas in its structure, and grew beneath the conjunctiva of the eye. 4 . CYSTIC S A IICOM A. This name is applied because the disease contains cyst*, pr cells. Cystic sarcoma sometimes occurs as a distinct tumour, but is commotdy met with in the testis and oi ary. The cysts, both in the former and latter part, are capable of being rendered red by anatomical injection. I he cavi- ties generally contain a serous fluid, but sometimes a case- ous substance. Mr. Abernethy believes this last sort of case, when the testicle is concerned, is peculiarly intract- able. 5. MASTOID, OR MAMMARY SARCOMA, So named from its resemblance to the mammary gland in structure. Mr. Abernethy has not frequently seen thisFIRST LINES OF THE J 38 ki,Hl of tumour and his attention was called to the nature Of the disease, by a case in which a swelling, partaking of the above structure, and about as large as an orange, was removedfrom the front of the thigh. The wound seLed tl lrS. C 1Sp°Se(1 to lieaI5 but it degenerated afterwards into a malignant ulcer, which occasioned death in the course of two months. As this kind of tumour is gradually lost in the sur- rounding parts, which probably retain a disposition to as- sume a similar morbid alteration, Mr. Abernethy very ju- diciously recommends a more extensive removal of them, than was practised in the above example. Mr* Abernethy thinks this kind of sarcoma more malig- nant than the preceding species, but not so much so as the following are. 6. TUBERCULATED SARCOMA Consists of an aggregation of small, roundish tumours, of various sizes and colours, connected together by a kind of cellular substance. Mi. Abernethy has chiefly seen this disease in the lym- phatic glands of the neck. The tumours ulcerated, be- came painful incurable sores, and destroyed the patients. Tuberculated sarcoma is so terrible a disorder that it may be deemed a fatal one: fortunately it is uncommon. 7. MEDULLARY SARCOMA. This is commonly seen affecting the testis, and has been termed the soft cancer of that part. The tumour resem- bles the structure and appearance of the medullary sub- stance of the brain. The inguinal glands on each side become affected'with the same morbid change, in consequence of the diseased state of the testis, and acquire a very enormous size. The skin covering the disease in the groin gives way, and the most prominent of the enlarged glands inflame, and arePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 139 gradually detached in the form of sloughs. Hemorrhage succeeds the separation of each slough, and can only be suppressed by means of continued pressure. After all the dead portions have been thrown off, the skin heals, and continues cicatrized till the distension of another gland re- news the foregoing process', and the patient is at length exhausted. Dissections after death evince, that the glands in the pelvis and abdomen are affected with the same disease. Mr. Abernethy relates a case, in which a tumour, par- taking of this structure, formed on the thigh. The base of the disease was situated near the bone. The lymphatic glands in the ham, pelvis, and loins, were all affected w ith the same morbid enlargement. These circumstances were ascertained after death. The facility with which medullary sarcoma is propa- gated along the absorbent vessels, is one of its more striking peculiarities, Mr. Abernethy adds another species of sarcoma, wnicli he calls "carcinomatous. This I shall omit in the present chapter, because the name docs not properly enter into the above arrangement, which is founded on the anatomical structure of tumours; and because carcinoma cannot al- ways be considered as a tumour, the diseased part fre- quently being- shrunk, and even smaller than in the healthy state ; and lastly, because cancer is a sufficiently important subject for a separate chapter. or THE GROWTH OF SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS, AND OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. Every kind of fleshy tumour, every enlargement of an original part of the body, can only be the effect of an un- natural action in the vessels. Whatever matter is depo- sited in the interstices of a gland, or any other part, must be placed there by those secerning arteries, which, in the healthy state, only secrete a sufficient quantity of new par-140 first lines of tue S:: Tfy (h;f °nCS rCm0VCd * the Sorbents. , , . 10U °f (he sccerni% arteries, and that of the ymp*iA xcj ought to be equal; and whenever more matter is deposited by the blood vessels than is taken away "the soroen.s, a tumour forms in the disordered part. It is P°S , to co,lceive> howewr, that when original parts are enlarged, the morbid change may be owing to an im- perfect absorption, and not to any wrong action of the bloou vessels. But in cases of tumours which are quite , lS U1Ct’ a‘ld whlch constituted no original part of the °dj’ thc formation of tlie disease is probably always the result ot a morbid state of the surrounding arteries. 1 he process by which sarcomatous tumours, and indo- lent indurations, and thickenings, are formed, is termed chrome inflammation. The blood vessels, which we must generally suppose to be the active organs in these cases, de- posd a superfluous quantity of new matter; and to do so they must assume an increased action, though not of that throbbing sort which happens in cases of acute inflamma- tion. It is very likely that coagulating lymph is the first kind ot matter which is thrown out from the vessels in cases of sarcomatous tumours : that it then becomes vascular itself, and-is converted by the action of its own vessels into the various kinds of morbid structure already mentioned.. In proportion as a tumour increases in size, it compresses i ie suiiounding cellular substance, which becomes con- verted into a kind of membranous capsule, surrounding he swelling. In sarcomatous cases the cyst is, in ge- neral, thin ; and sometimes there is even no cyst what- ever. 1 he grou th of indolent tumours does not derange the constitution; they form in an insidious manner without increased heat, and generally without any uneasiness in the part. A ^mour. when once it has begun to form, becomes it-practice of surgery. 141 self an additional source of irritation, and a cause of in- creased action in the vessels. Hence it will continue to en- - large, unless checked by surgical applications, or removed by the knife. TREATMENT OF SARCOMATOUS TUMOURS. The growth of all indolent tumours may be retarded by repeated topical bleeding, and the application of linen wet with the aq. litharg. acet. If the enlargement ot a swelling be completely stopped in this manner, the next ooject is to promote the absorp- tion of the new-formed substance. Mercurial frictions, electricity, blisters, and stimulating topical remedies, are proper for this purpose; but the attempt generally fails, because if you stimulate a tumour too much it is apt to slough, and leave a dangerous, extensive, and frequently malignant, sore; and if you do not stimulate so much, still the irritation employed often renews the increased ac- tion, checked by the first kind of remedies, and the tumour begins to enlarge again. For these reasons, the practice of trying to disperse in- dolent tumours is not deserving of much praise. The re- moval of the disease by the knife is the best measure, and the sooner this is done the better ; for a common adipose tumour, now about the size of an apple, and capable oi being extirpated with the utmost safety, may in the course of a few years become so large as to weigh near fifteen pounds; and the magnitude of the wound necessarily made in cutting out so large a mass would be very peril- ous. Besides, sarcomatous tumours, when removed in an early state, are not so apt to leave the surface of the wound in a morbid condition. When the tumour is known, at the time of the opera- tion, to be either a mammary, a tuberculated, or medul- lary, sarcoma, care should be taken to make a free removal of the surrounding substance.FIRST LINES OF THE / The operation is performed in (he same May as that of removes a; a diseased breast; and the reader is referred (o the chapter on the latter subject. CHAP. XXVII. 01' SCIRRHUS, OR CANCER, PREVIOUS TO ULCERATION. A HARD and painful glandular swelling, having a disposition to become cancer, says Richter, is the common, but inadequate and erroneous definition of scirrhus. The disease is not regularly attended with swelling; sometimes scirrhous parts diminish in size, and shrink. Hardness is not a characteristic property; for many tumours, which are not scirrhous, are exceedingly indurated. The disease is not always situated in a gland: it oftentimes attacks structures, which cannot be called glandular: and hard glandular swellings are often seen, which do not partake of the nature of scirrhus. The disposition to cancer cannot be enumerated among the marks of scirrhus, since it is not discoverable till carcinoma has actually commenced. Its termination in open cancer is not an invariable occur- rence; and other tumours become cancerous, to which no one would apply the term scirrhus. We cannot but admire the discrimination with which Richter views this part of an abstruse pathological sub- ject. We retire from the page, however, with unsatisfac- tory information; for instead of learning what peculiar features characterize scirrhus, we only collect that certain symptoms sometimes attend it, sometimes do not attend it, and sometimes attend other diseases, so that they form no di- agnostic criterion of the particular one under consideration.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. l4.> The terra scirrhus must undoubtedly have some definite meaning, when employed by scientific men. Unreflecting surgeons may use the word vaguely; and, perhaps, in- fluenced by its etymological import, they may call an im- mense number of various morbid indurations scirrhus. I have always considered scirrhus as a diseased hard- ness, in which there is a propensity to cancerous ulcera- tion, and a greater backwardness to recede, than exists in any other kind of diseased hardness, although the skin may occasionally not break during life, and a few scirrhous indurations may have been lessened. Though Richter states that this disposition cannot be discovered till carcinoma has actually taken place; though Messrs. Burns and Home confirm that other indurations and tumours may terminate in cancer; though Mr. Abernethy shews that sarcomatous and encysted turnouts may end in most malignant diseases, and such as merit the name of cancer; yet it is now well ascertained that in all these instances the changes which precede cancerous ulcer- ation bear no similitude to the genuine scirrhus. The puckering of the skin, the dull leaden colour of the integuments, the knotted and uneven feel of the disease, the occasional darting pains in the part, its fixed attachment to the skin above, and muscles beneath, form so striking an assemblage of symptoms, that, when^they are all present, there cannot be the smallest doubt that the tumour is a scirrhus, and that the disease is about to acquire, if it have not already acquired, the power of contaminating the sur- rounding parts, and the lymphatic glands, to which the absorbents of the diseased*part tend. CHARACTERS BT WHICH SCIRRHUS MAT BE DISTIN- GUISHED FROM OTHER DISEASES. A scirrhous induration is not prose to acquire the mag- nitude which almost all other tumours are apt to attain when their growth is not interrupted.H4 FIRST lines of the Ollier tumours are commonly more moveable than scir- rhous ones, especially when they have not been inflamed. It we except the fungus hsemafodes, other tumours do not involve every kind of structure, skin, muscle, cellular substance, &c. and the integuments seldom become affected before the distension produced by the size of such swell- ing5 becomes very considerable. In scirrhous cases the skin soon becomes contaminated, discoloured, and puck- ered. Some few tumours may be harder and heavier than a few scirrhous ones ; but the reverse is commonly the case. As otkei indurations and tumours may assume the can- cerous action, and even end in cancerous ulceration ; and as some true scirrhi, when not irritated by improper treat- ment, may continue stationary for years; the occurrence of actual carcinoma cannot prove that the preceding state wa* that of scirrhus. The only criterion of the latter dis- ease which we possess, is deduced from the assemblage of characters already specified ; for except the peculiar puck- ering, and speedy leaden discolouration, of the skin, no other appearances, considered separately, form any line of discrimination. The most characteristic mark of a scirrhus is its struc- ture being intersected w ith white ligamentous bands, which often extend a good way into the surrounding fat. This texture cannot be detected till the disease has been re- moved. The fact corroborates the prudence of taking away a considerable portion of the substance surrounding a scirrhous tumour. Sometimes cysts, containing a transparent fluid, and supposed to be hydatids, are found in the substance of scirrhi; but they are not so frequently attendant on the complaint as to form any part of its character. The superficial veins are usually very much dilated. 4v. JV ...PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 145 OF CANCER IN THE STATE OF ULCERATION. The diseased skin covering a carcinomatous tumour ge- nerally ulcerates before the swelling has attained any great magnitude. A large chasm is then produced in its subr stance, partly by a sloughing, and partly by an ulcerating process. A copious discharge of very fetid, sanious mat- ter follows. The ulcer becomes irregular in its figure, and unequal on its surface. The edges are thick, indurated, and extremely painful; they often exhibit a serrated ap- pearance, being sometimes retorted, at other times invert- ed. The ulcer sometimes spreads with rapidity to a great extent, and its progress produces frequent hemorrhages, which, joined with the irritation of the disease, reduce the patient to the lowest state of debility. Granulations gene- rail}' grow on the ulcerated surface, when the ravages of the disorder seem to undergo a temporary stop; but this apparent attempt at reparation only ends in the formation of an inveterate fungous substance. At length the absorbent glands become diseased, and death puts an end to the patient’s sufferings. Previous to this event a cough and difficulty of breathing generally occur. TREATMENT OF SCIRRIIUS AND ULCERATED CANCER. The treatment of scirrhus embraces two objects, the dispersion, and the removal, of the tumour. When the • -hardness is so situated as to be easily removed by the knife, no delay should be occasioned by attempting to disperse a swelling of this nature. The operation ought to be per- formed early, as the chance of effectual extirpation is then greater. On the other hand, the attempts at dispersion rarely succeed; the means employed are tedious in their operation, often injure the health, and when of an irritating nature, and incautiously applied, convert the scirrhus into a cancer. Prudence will only allow the operation to be LFIRST LINES OF THE 146 postponed, and discutient remedies tried, when the hard- ness is below its usual degree, when the pain of the disease is not so great as to denote a tendency to ulcerate, and spread with rapidity; and when the swelling, induration, &c. have already seemed prone to diminish. The best internal plan of treatment consists in giving some of the following medicines, together with a light fluid diet; cicuta, belladonna, digitalis, preparations of mercury, arsenic, tinct. ferri mur., muriate of barytes, veg. and fos. alkali. Pain is to be moderated by opium, and saline purgatives prescribed at due intervals. Electricity, and a course of emetics, have been recom- mended by respectable practitioners. The aq. laurocerasi, in the dose of thirty or forty drops, has been found serr viceable. Retaining a scirrhns in an equal temperature, and de- fending it from external irritation, by means of a piece of swan’s down, or rabbit’s skin, ought always to be ob- served. In some instances local applications, containing cicuttc and belladonna, have done good: indeed these are the most safe remedies of the kind ; for mercury, gum ammoniac, and several others, occasionally employed, are dangerous, because too irritating. The mode of removing a scirrhous tumour w'ill be der scribed in the chapter which treatsof the extirpation of a diseased breast. Even when a cancer has proceeded to ulceration, if the disease be not too extensive, and the patient not too much reduced, the operation oyght to be practised without de- lay. If it is too late, the treatment can only be pallia- tive, and some of the above remedies must be prescribed. The most common external applications, are prepara- tions of lead, arsenic, solutions of iron, or of the hi/drarg. mur., the carrot or fermenting poultice, pure oil, &c. The operation itself may prove an exciting cause of car-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 147 cinoma, and will certainly be so if the scirrhous part be not completely removed. The portion left behind will in- evitably become cancerons. The chance of success de- pends on the entire extirpation of the disease; and in no operation is celerity more dangerous. Above all t mgs, a free removal of the skin covering and adjoining the sltua- tion of the tumour is to be recommended. Even when the disease has been most completely cut out, together with a large portion of the surrounding sub- stance, the wound sometimes changes into a cancerous ul- cer; and every prudent surgeon, therefore, always ensures his own reputation by making a guarded prognosis. CHAP. XXVIII. GANGLIONS. A GANGLION is a small hard tumour, unattended with pain; and composed of a cyst, which is of a firm tendinous texture, and contains a fluid resembling the white of an egg. It is usually moveable (in a greater or less degree) beneath the skin ; its growth is slow, and it is seldom much larger than a hazel-nut. Its figure is com- monly round, smooth, and even ; it seldom inflames, and still more rarely does it suppurate; but when the latter event happens, an ill-conditioned ulcer is generally pro- duced. Ganglions occur most frequently on the hands and fin- gers, and always over a tendon, with which the sac is connected by a slender neck. These tumours are usually preceded by a bruise, or violent sprain ; and they move along with the tendon, to which they are attached. Deformity, and impediment to the use of some partieu- 2first lines of the 148 l.ir muscle, are the utmost inconveniences commonly re- sulting from this disease; but when the tumour ulcerates, a very foul, and even dangerous, ulcer may be the result. TREATMENT. The common plan ot treating ganglions is to apply •pressure, or stimulating applications, to them, with a view of causing them to be absorbed. Binding a piece of lead on a ganglion with a roller is a very good meth- d. The oleum origani, or hartshorn, may be used as a lini- ment, when the stimulating plan is preferred. No doubt, when ganglions are only attached to the subjacent parts by a slender pedicle, they might be as safely cut out as encysted tumours, if care were taken to leave no part ot the sac behind. The disease, however, is not se- vere enough to induce the generality of patients to submit to an operation, particularly as the t umours may be always greatly diminished, or even quite dispersed, by the pre- ceding measures. CHAP. XXIX. ANEURISMS. • WHEN any part of an artery is preternaturally di-. latcd, the tumour is named a true aneurism. In such cases the artery is either only enlarged at a small part of its track, and the tumour has a determinate bor- der ; or the vessel becomes dilated for a considerable length, in which circumstance the swelling is oblong, and loses itself so gradually in the surrounding parts, that its margin cannot be exactly ascertained. The first case, which is the most common, is denominated the circum- scribed true aneurism; the second is named the diffused true aneurism.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 14» When 1 jiootl escapes from a wound, or rupture, of an artery into the adjoining cellular substance, the swelling is termed a false aneurism. In tliis'instance the blood either collects in one mass, dis- tends (lie cellular substance, and converts it into a cyst, so as to form a plainly circumscribed tumour; or it is injected into all the cavities of the surrounding cellular substance, and extends along the course of the great vessels from one end of the limb to the other, thus producing an irre- gular oblong swelling. The lirst case is termed the ch - cumscrihed false aneurism; the second the diffused false aneurism.* In cases of true aneurism the coats ot the diseased ar- tery are found in a thickened, cartilaginous, and often os- sified state. The vessel is either dilated at the whole of its circumference, or only on one side : the latter case some- times happens, when the artery lies near a bone, which im- pedes the expansion of one side of the vessel. The first thing the patient perceives is an unusual throb- bing; and on examination he discovers a small pulsating tumour, which entirely vanishes when pressure is made, but immediately reappears when the pressure is taken oft. It also spontaneously subsides when the artery above it is compressed, and returns as soon as the compression no longer operates. Il is free from pain; and the skin co- vering it is of its natural colour. \V lien once the tumour lias originated it continually grows larger, and at length attains a very considerable volume. In proportion as it becomes larger its pulsation becomes weaker; and, indeed, is almost quite lost when the disease has acquired much magnitude. % e Nw * When the external coat of an artery, is wounded, and the internal ones are consequently dilated, the case is by many writers named a mixed aneurism. This seems a very superfluous distinction. Authors are also not perfectly decided about the application of the term; Monro applying it to cases in which the artery is first dilated, and then rup- tured. _ISO FIRST LINES OF THE The diminution of the pulsation of the tumour is as- cribable to two causes: 1. The'arterial tunics lose their di- latable and elastic property in proportion as they become distended and indurated, and, consequently, the aneuris- mal sac is no longer capable of an alternate diastole and systole with the action of the heart; 2. Coagulated blood is deposited on the inner surface of the sac, particularly in Inrge aneurisms, in which some of the blood is always des- titute of motion. In true aneurisms, however, the blood does not coagulate so soon, nor so frequently, as in false ones. When there is coagulated blood present, pressure can only produce a partial disappearance of the swelling. The larger the sac becomes, the more weakly does the blood flow into the continuation of the artery below the swelling, so that the pulse in the lower, part of the limb is small and feeble, and the limb not so warm as it ought to be. On dissection, the lower portion of the artery is fre- quently found preternaturally small and contracted. The pressure made by the tumour on the veins and the adjacent parts frequently causes oedema, caries, &c. The greatest peril occurs when the aneurismal sac bursts. The event may be foreseen by the part about to give way becoming particularly tense, elevated, thin, soft, and of a dark purple colour.* Internal true aneurisms are only discoverable at first by an unusual and incessant throbbing in particular situa- tions ; but after such tumours have acquired an immense size, they protrude externally, and then their nature is easily detected. As all the arteries partake of the same structure, they are all subject to the true aneurism; but as it occurs more frequently in the large than the small arteries, it is evident * This state is followed by the formation of a little slough, and the fatal hemorrhages take place after the detachment of this, as I had an opportunity of seeing, in the case of an axillary aneurism in St. Bar- . tholomew’s hospital.151 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. that the impetus of the blood must frequently have a con- siderable share in its origin. The true aneurisms, as Monro justly fir ought, occur as often in the aorta, parti- cularly its arch, as in all other arteries together. They frequently occur in the ham, and wherever the arteries run unsurrounded by muscles, and are most exposed to exter- nal violence. It very frequently happens that patients have several aneurisms at the same time, and that the artery is diseased for a considerable extent from each tumour. In this case, and probably in the majority of instances, aneurisms are the consequence of a morbid affection of the whole arterial system. We may infer this from the disease frequently originating spontaneously, without any assignable local cause; and from frequently finding, in aneurismal sub- jects, various arteries studded with white, cartilaginous, or osseous specks. The false aneurism is always owing to an aperture in an artery, from which the blood gushes into the cellular sub- stance, in the manner already explained. A sadden and violent strain may lacerate an artery, and cause this dis- ease; or a wound may give rise to it. The false aneurism most frequently occurs at the bend of the arm, in conse- quence of the brachial artery being accidentally wounded in phlebotomy. When the artery is thus wounded the surgeon endea- vours to stop the hemorrhage by pressure, which may oc- casion a diffused aneurism, in consequence ot the external aperture being closed, so that the blood can ho longer escape, and must necessarily insinuate itself into the cellu- lar substance. The swelling thus created is uneven, more or less prominent, and extends upward and downward along the course of the artery. The skin covering it is of a dark purple colour. bud) is the origin of the diffused false aneurism. It in- creases in size, as long as the internal bleeding continues ;133 FIRST lines of tile and if tins have not a timely stop put to it, the case excites violent pain, deprives the member of the power of motion, and causes inflammation and gangrenous mischief. Tiie circumscribed false aneurism arises in the following manner: when proper pressure has been made in the first instance, so as to suppress the hemorrhage, but the band- age has afterwards been removed too soon, or before tiie ar- tery lias healed, the blood passes through the unclosed wound, or that which it has burst open again, into the cel- lular substance. As this has now become agglutinated by the preceding pressure, the blood cannot diffuse itself into its cells; and, consequently, a mass of it collects in the Vicinity of the aperture of the artery, and distends the cel- lular substance into a sac. Sometimes, when the aperture of the artery is exceed- ingly small, the blood first effused coagulates, and prevents < the entrance of that which follows into the cavities of the cellulai substance, and obliges it to collect in one mass. 1 he sy mptoms of a circumscribed false aneurism do not differ very much from those of a circumscribed true one. . But, in general, the two caseS may be easily discriminat- ed. The true aneurism readily yields to pressure, and as readily recurs on its removal; the false one yields very gradually, and returns in the same way. The blood in the sac can only pass and repass slowly through the opening of the artery. Frequently also a hissing sound is very au- dible, as the blood gushes into the sac again. The pulsa- tion of the false aneurism is always more feeble, and, as the tumour enlarges, is lost sooner, than that of the true aneurism. In consequence of coagulated blood lodging in false aneurisms much sooner than in true ones, the former become hard, and incapable of disappearing on pressure, much sooner than the latter. The diffused false aneurism has little or no pulsation, except very near the aperture of the artery. . When the artery is wounded at the bend of the arm, thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 153 mode of applying- pressure has been already described in the chapter on hemorrhage. Even when a circumscribed false aneurism hhs origi- nated/compression is still applicable as long as the swell- ing is soft, and can be pressed away. A tourniquet is first to be applied to the upper arm, the blood is then to be pressed back into the artery, and pressure applied. But in case there is a great deal of coagulated blood in the aneu- rismal sac, and the tumour is incapable of disappearing on pressure, compression can no longer be of service. The coagulated blood, situated over the aperture oi the vessel, prevents the pressure from operating with sufficient effi- cacy. However, when the quantity of coagulated blood is trivial, a trial of pressure may be made. Sometimes it succeeds; and should it not, still it is productive of some benefit; because while it more or less obstructs the flow of blood through the main artery, it obliges this fluid to pass into the collateral branches, which then become dilated, so that the operation is afterwards more likely to succeed. The varicose, or venous aneurism, is the only one remain- ing to be described. Sometimes in bleeding, the lancet quite transfixes the vein, and enters the subjacent brachial artery. The external wound of the vein heals, but the in- ternal one being prevented from doing so by the How of ar- terial blood into the vein, the latter vessel becomes dilated in the situation over the preternatural communication be- tween the two vessels. Besides the dilatation, there are a tremulous motion, and a pulsation in the vein, attended with a hissing noise, arising from the gushing of the blood into the vessel from the artery. This disease is not dan- gerous ; and we have no instance of its attaining any con- siderable size, or requiring an operation. TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. Internal aneurisms may be considered beyond the reach of surgery ; and all that can be done is, to recommend thefirst tines of the 154 patient to live in a very abstemious manner, to avoid every fcmd of exertion, and to lose a little blood occasionally. Every thing tending to create plethora, or accelerate the circulation, must hasten the patient’s death. The most common aneurism, for which surgical skill is required, is that occurring in the ham. 'I he principle on which aneurisms are cured, consists in preventing the entrance of fresh blood into the aneurismal sac; for when this is effectually accomplished, the blood already contained in the sac is gradually absorbed, and the tumour diminishes in proportion. This object may sometimes be fulfilled by a skilful ap- plication of pressure, particularly if the aneurism be small, and the whole of its contents can be made to recede. 1 he same thing occasionally happens even in cases of very large aneurisms, which cure themselves by compressing the portion of the artery leading into the tumour, so as to render it impervious. However, though it is generally -’roper to try pressure in the early stage of the disease, it . annot be said that such practice is attended with much t.uccess. 11 the communication, between the aneurismal sac and artery, does not become obliterated in consequence of this means before the end of a fortnight, there is no great raison to expect that it will do to in a longer time. The in- stances recorded ol aneurisms being cured by along per- severance in pressure, are probably cases which would na- turally have got well without this means. I he operation for the cure of popliteal aneurisms, con- sists in exposing the femoral artery about the middle of the thigh, and putting a ligature round the vessel. It is preferable to tic the artery at this distance from the tumour, because the vessel is very frequently in a morbid state higher up than the visible swelling would lead us to conjecture. We are indebted to Mr. John Hunter for this method of operating. 1 he plan, however, has undergone consider- able improvements since his time; and of all surgeonss PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 155 who have exerted their abilities in the achievement of this object, no one has been so successful as Mr. Abernethy- This gentleman soon perceived that the occurrence of he- morrhage, after tying any artery, did not commonly origi- nate from the mechanical bursting of the vessel, or from the ligature becoming lax, and changing its situation, but from ulceration of the artery. The blood vessels are themselves vascular, and derive their supply of nourish- ment from vessels transmitted to them from the surround- ing substance. How proper must it therefore be to ap- ply a ligature round an artery as near as possible to where it lies involved in its natural connections! In this situa- tion the ligature is much more likely to produce an adhe- sion of the sides of the vessel to each other, and the danger ofnlceration is less, than if it were applied, as was formerly done, to the middle of the exposed portion of the artery, where the vessel has been quite separated from its connections by the passage of the surgeon’s finger underneath it. In short, Mr. Abernethy’s mode of operating consists in mak- ing an incision about two inches and a half in length through the skin and fascia of the thigh, on the inner edge of the sartorius muscle ; as soon as the femoral artery is felt, an incision is to be made on each side of it, in order to enable the operator to pass his finger beneath it ; and, lastly, a double ligature is to be introduced by means of a blunt needle under the vessel, observing to leave out the femoral vein, and accompanying branches of the anterior crural nerve. One portion of the ligature is to be tied as high, the other as low, as the detachment of t he artery will allow. The part of the vessel between the two ligatures is then to be divided. Thus the two ends of the artery will be in the same state as those on the surface of a stump after amputation. The limb, if cold after the operation, may be covered with flannel and gently rubbed. I shall not notice any mechanical contrivances, to pre- vent the ligature slipping off the vessel, because I consi-156 first lines OF TilE der them pernicious. What power can possibly drag- the ligatuie off the artery ? In short,^hemorrhage may be said to be always produced by ulceration, except in a few in- stances, in which the ligature comes away after remaining applied the usual time, but still the sides of the vessel from sonie unknown cause have had no disposition to grow to- gether. Mr. Abernethy has rendered surgeons more confident in the success of operations for popliteal aneurisms by his bold, yet judicious attempts, to relieve aneurisms situated in the groin. Thrice has he tied the external iliac artery, and established the fact, that the inosculations, even in such ' a high situation as this, are quite sufficient for conveying a due quantity of blood into the limb beloW. By his last attempt he preserved the life of a person, w ho would cer- tainly have been in the grave in a very short time by the rupture of the tumour. A similar operation was done with success about the same time at Birmingham. The plan of doing it is simple, and consists in making an incision about three inches in length through the inte- guments of the abdomen, a little above Poupart’s ligament, and half an inch on the outside of the abdominal ring, in order to avoid the epigastric artery. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is then to be divided in the di- rection of the wound. The lower margin of the internal oblique and transverse muscles is also to be cut with a crooked bistoury. The finger may then be passed be- tween the peritoneum, by the side of the psoas muscle, so as to touch the artery. A double ligature is to be carried under the vessel, and tied as in the operation for the popli- teal aneurism. In operating for an aneurism at the bend of the arm, an incision is to be made through the integuments covering the tumour ; then the fascia of the biceps muscle is to be divided, and the artery tied both above and below the swelling. Here two ligatures arc indispensable; for, ifPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 137 the vessel were only tied above the aneurism, the inoscula- tions between the brachial artery,and the recurrent arteries of the fore arm, are so free, that the blood would continue to find its way into the aneurismal sac, almost, if not quite, as easily as before. 1 Aneurisms sometimes form in the axilla, and to save the patient from immediate death, it is the surgeon’s duty to tie the axillary artery at the place where it proceeds over the first rib. I have been informed that Mr. Keate has done this operation with success. The vessel might be got at by an incision either above or below the clavicle. I lie surgeon-general, I understand, selected the latter mode, and I am very much inclined to suspect that it is the best, for when there is an axillary aneurism, the clavicle is so much elevated, and the artery so deep below it, that it is very difficult to get at the vessel in the other method. An incision, about three inches long, might be made through the integuments, a little below the clavicle, and immediately over the hollow between the deltoid and pec- toral muscles. The axillary vein lies before the artery, and as a wound of it would probably be fatal, the ut- most caution must be observed in the dissection. Care must also be taken not to mistake one of the cervical nerves for the artery. A tolerably strong ligature should be put under the vessel as soon as it is distinctly ascertained to be such, and the vein and any adjacent nerve should be care- fully excluded. No man ought to undertake this opera- tion who is not a steady operator, and is not well acquaint- ed with the anatomy of the parts. If the aneurismal tu- mour should extend far inward, toward the sternum, this plan of operating however would not be practicable. The operation must then be attempted above the clavicle. An incision should be made just over the sternal end of the clavicle, and the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido masfoideus muscle detached with a blunt-pointed curved bistoury. No further use should be made of a cutting in-158 FIRST LINES OF THE strument. The chief difficulty would be, to get a ligature under the artery ; but it might be done with the assistance of an aneurismal needle. As the artery communicates its pulsations 'o the cervical nerves in the vicinity, the oper- ator, il not aware, would be very likely to tie one of them for the artery. It might be necessary to perform one of these operations, were the axillary artery wounded ; but here the chance of success would be less, because in aneu- risms the anastomosing branches have time to enlarge in proportion as the disease obstructs the circulation through the main artery, and thus they become adequate to sup- plying the limb with blood. In the case of a wound, therefore, the surgeon should be particularly vigilant after the axillary artery, and should amputate without the least delay on the approach of mortification, for the inosculations would very probably be sufficient to nourish the stump, though not to preserve the whole limb. Diffused false aneurisms are the most dangerous of those occurring in the extremities, particularly when the arte- ries, from which they arise, are such as the femoral, brachial, or posterior tibial. The injection of an enorm- ous quantity of blood into the cellular texture proves both an impediment to the free circulation in the limb, and a frequent cause of gangrenous symptoms, in addition to the obstruction to the passage of blood through one of these large arteries in consequence of the operation. Aneurisms of the carotid artery are rare; but were a sur- geon to meet with one in an advanced state, humanity would oblige him to operate. Mr. Abernethy has tied this vessel ; but the patient had a very immense lacerated Avound of the neck, and had lost, a very large quantity of blood, so that pertiaps it is not accurate to conclude from the termination of this case, that tying the carotid would produce any fatal derangement of the brain. In order to get at the vessel, Mr. Abernethy has recom- mended making an incision on that side of it next the159 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. trachea, where no important parts can be injured, and then to pass the finger underneath the artery.^. The par vagurn must be carefully excluded from the ligature, for to tic it would be a fatal error. CrV CHAP. XXX. \ VARICOSE VEINS. THE veins, as well as the arteries, are subject to a pre- ternatural dilatation, technically termed a varix. Any cause producing a long-continued turgescence of particular veins may in the end rentier them varicose. Thus the gravid uterus, by pressing on the iliac vessels, fre- quently gives rise to varicose veins in the lower extremity, and rectum, in which latter situation they are named piles. In the same way a depending position of a limb, long con- tinued, may cause the disorder. The superficial veins are most subject to become varicose, and the varix generally first occurs in the situation of a valve. At first the tumour is commonly circumscribed below, in which direction the disease seems to be bounded by the valve ; but as the case advances, the distention of the vein extends higher, and the varix loses its determinate figure, particularly at its upper part, and becomes more oblong. The contained blood is at first fluid, and the tu- mour is so soft as to yield readily to the touch*, but at a more advanced stage the blood coagulates, and the varix is then bard, and no longer recedes on pressure. Some- times a tolerably long portion of the vein is filled with co- agulated blood, which, when drawn out of the yessel, ap- pears like a worm.160 FIRST LINES OF THE When the distended vein is filled up with coagulutn, the circulation ot blood cannot go on through it, or at least but very imperfectly, and this fluid then accumulates below the varix, and dilates the contiguous branches. Thus the disease is increased', and frequently the veins are rendered varicose over the greater part of the leg. While the distention is trivial it occasions little incon- venience, but as it increases it is attended with a trouble- some and almost insupportable itching, and sometimes with very violent pain and inflammation. In the latter case suppuration may be the consequence. The matter is always at first contained in the cellular substance sur- rounding the varix, and is often the forerunner of very ob- stinate ulcerations. Varicose veins often burst when accidentally and sud- denly distended, or when pressed or scratched. In this circumstance a great deal of blood may be lost if care be not taken to stop the hemorrhage. AVer bleeding in this manner the varix seems to undergo a diminution, but this is olily temporary. There are two indications in the cure of varices, viz. to remove every impediment to the free return of the blood, and to restore the distended vessel to its former dimen- sions. Any tumour pressing upon the trunk of the vari- cose veins, should, if possible, be removed ; and wdien practicable, the limb kept in an horizontal posture. When, the cause of the impediment to the return of the blood can- not be removed, the cure is difficult to accomplish. Preg- nant ay omen cannot be cured of the complaint till after de- livery. Astringent cold applications are the most efficacious in promoting the diminution in the diameter of the dilated veins. Cold water, ice, snow, brandy, or a solution of alum in vinegar, should be used topically, while at the same time a bandage should be applied round the limb with a proper degree of tightness. It seems probable, thatPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 101 a bandage operates beneficially in cases of varix, by obli- ging the blood to return through the deep-seated veins ; so that the superficial ones, not being distended with b oo become diminished in diameter. The pressure on the thick- ened vessels may also promote the diminution of them. In more obstinate cases, particularly when promse he- morrhages frequently take place from a varix, relief must be attempted by an operation ; which consists in dividing the skin over a superficial trunk of the diseased vein, and passing a ligature underneath the vessel, so as to be able to tie it firmly in the same manner as the arteries are tied. When the vena saphena is to be tied, as it passes oyer the knee-joint, the patient must stand on any thing ot a convenient height; the integuments are to be pinched up into a transverse fold, and divided ; and a silver bluntish needle will serve to convey a ligature under the vein, with- out risk of wounding it. hemorrhoids. As I am on the subject of varicose veins, I think it most convenient to notice here the complaint termed he- morrhoids or piles, by which is implied any considerable distension of the veins near the termination of the rectum. When the dilated veins do not bleed, the swellings ara called blind piles ; but when they do, they are denominated open piles. Sometimes they are external, at others internal. In general the inconvenience which they produce is very supportable; but when they bleed profusely, or are in- flamed, or strangulated by the sphincter ani, they gi\e rise in the first circumstance to weakness from loss of blood, and in the two latter cases, to very severe pain. Any tiling capable of retarding the return of blood through the hemorrhoidal veins may cause the disease. The pressure of the gravid uterus, the frequent retention of hardened fasces in the rectum, and a sedentary life, are fre- quently the occasion of piles, and hence women aic more1G2 FIRST LINES OF THU . subject to the complaint than men, though it is also very common in the latter subjects. - treatment. When piles are constricted by the sphincter ani, and pain and inflammation are the consequences, the tumours ought to be returned into the rectum, unless it be judged more advisable to remove them. When they are inflamed, leeches and the cold saturnine lotion may be advantage* ously applied. The balsam copaib. should be taken in the dose of fifty or eighty drops in the morning, botli in order to keep the bowels open, and to relieve by a peculiar virtue, which this medicine possesses, the local uneasiness attendant on the complaint. The rectum should also be kept empty by the judicious employment of laxative clysters. In cases of piles the coats of the veins, and the adjoining cellular substance, are frequently so diseased and thick- ened, that the tumours are of very considerable size, so as to obstruct the free passage of the faeces, prevent a person from walking with pleasure, and actually render him in- capable of riding on horseback. This state is rendered worse by the repeated occurrence of bleedings. Here it is best to extirpate the tumours with a knife, a mode much preferable to that of tying them with a ligature. It is al- ways in the surgeon’s power to stop the bleeding. How- ever, if tying the tumours should be preferred, there is very little art in doing it.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 163 CHAP. XXXI. ' ' ' .. \ WARTS AND CORNS. WARTS are small cutaneous excrescences, which oc- cur on all parts of the body, but chiefly on the face and hands. They arc generally hard and free from pain, and are cither connected with the skin by a slender pedicle, or by abroad base. The skin beneath the wart is in general moveable, and may be easily elevated, but sometimes it is attached to the parts below. Young people are more sub- ject to these excrescences than those who are advanced in age. Warts seldom attain any very considerable size; the largest seldom exceed the size of a pea, nor are they often troublesome, though sometimes they become pain- ful, and produce, especially when rubbed or scratched, very unpleasant ulcerations. Such irritable warts are commonly from the first of a red, or livid colour, and are usually situated on the face. Verrucas frequently occur on the penis, labia pudendi, and about the anus, and in such situations are frequently suspected to arise from a syphilitic cause. They may certainly be sometimes removed by tedious salivation ^ but, as they yield to the same remedies as cure common warts, we have no reason to believe that they have a ve- nereal origin. These kinds of warts are the largest which we see in practice. Numerous local remedies of a stimulating quality will cure warts. Only a few can here be noticed. Aqua am* monise and tinct. canthar. are good applications ;*the warts should be frequently moistened with one of them every day. > m 2164 FIRST LINES OF THE A powder, composed of savin and cerugo reris in equal proportions, is a common and very efficacious remedy ; it is particularly useful in destroying warts growing around tlie corona glandis. Lunar caustic is another application, which may be em- ployed W lien the excrescences arc very large, they may always be extirpated with the knife, and with more safety than by the use of stimulants; for large irritable warts, when sti- mulated, sometimes form very unpleasant sores, which throw out fqngoilsgranulations. CORNS. A corn is a brawny hardness of the skin, sometimes ex- tending into the subjacent cellular substance. In the first case, the indurated part is moveable ; in the second, it is fixed. Frequently it elevates itself above the skin, and is not unlike a flat wart. It is as hard, dry, and insensible, as the thickened cuticle on the hands of labourers. Corns of the feet are usually owing to wearing tight shoes, and consequently women and genteel persons are more frequently afflicted than the lower classes. With re- gard to females, high-lieeled shoes render them more liable to the complaint, by causing the whole weight of the body to fall principally on the toes, which thereby become wedged in the extremity of the shoe. Sometimes corns do not occasion the least inconveni- ence ; but in other instances, they excite such violent pain as almost deprives the patient of the use of his feet, or at least renders walking and standing extremely incommo- dious. Doubtless, the pain proceeds from an inflamma- tory state of the parts in the circumference of the corn, which state is excited and kept up by the pressure of the induration. Corns arc generally more painful in warm, than in cold w’eather. There are two objects in the treatment; either to pro-PRACTICE OF. SURGERY. 165 cure a temporary relief, or to accomplish a permanent ? » cure. When the pain is severe the patient usually finds relief on sitting, pulling off his tight shoes, placing his feet in a horizontal posture, and becoming cool. But the pain is thus not prevented from returning, when he again puts on his tight shoes and walks about. The pain may begot rid of for a somewhat longer period by cutting off the prominent portion of the corn, as far as it can be done, without exciting pain and bleeding, and by bathing the feet a few times in warm water. In order to cure corns radically the afflicted person must wear wide shoes, made of soft leather, and for a time must stand and walk as little as possible. When a person, however, cannot avoid walking, he may adopt a contrivance for keeping pressure b um operat- ing on the corn. Eight or twelve pieces of linen, smeared with an emollient ointment, and having an aperture cut in the middle, exactly adapted to the size of the corn, are to be laid over each other, and so applied, that the corn is to lie in the opening, in such a manner that it cannot be touched by the shoe or stocking. When the plaster has been applied some weeks, the corn commonly vanishes without any other means. Should the corn be in the sole of the foot, it is only necessary to put in the shoe a felt sole, in which there is a hole corresponding to the situation, size, and shape of the induration. Acorn may also be infallibly and permanently cured by the following method, especially when the felt sole with a hole in it, and the plaster are also employed. The corn is to be rubbed twice a day with any emollient ointment, and in the interim is to be covered with a softening* plaster. Every morning and evening the foot is to be put for half an hour in warm water, and whilst there the corn is to be well rubbed with soap. Afterwards all the soft, white, pulpy outside of the corn is to be scraped off, taking care166 FIRST LINES OF THE not to give the least pain. The same treatment is to be continued without interruption until the corn is totally ex- tirpated, which generally happens in eight or twelve days. There are numerpus emollient plasters in repute for the cure of corns. One composition, said to be infallible, consists of two ounces of gum ammoniacum, the same quantity of yellow wax, and six drams ofverdigrease. In a tortnight, if the corn yet remain, another plaster is to be applied. CHAP. XXXII. FUNGUS HJEMATODES, OR SPONG’OID IN- FLAMMATION. WE are indebted to Mr. Burns of Glasgow, and Mr. Hey of Leeds, for the accounts of this most terrible disease. It commences with a small colourless tumour, which is soft when not covered by an aponeurosis, but firm when situated beneath such a part. It is at first free from unea- siness,but afterwards becomes the seat of acute, darting, and incessant pains. For a considerable time the tumour is smooth and even, but afterwards projects irregularly at one or more points, and here the skin becomes ex- tenuated, and of a livid red colour, The swelling has a considerable degree of elasticity, yielding to pressure, and rising up again immediately this is taken off. Openings at length form in the projecting parts, and a thin bloody mat- ter is discharged. Almost immediately after the formation of these apertures a small fungus protrudes, and this ra- pidly increases both in breadth and height, and fre- quently bleeds profusely. The discharge is thin and ex- ceedingly fetid. The integuments round the ulcerationPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 107 are red a,rd tender. The neighbouring glands swell, and assume the spongy morbid structure of the anprnl - rnour. If the patient still survive, similar tumours form in other situations, and hectical symptoms put a period to On examining the affected parts after death, or amputa- tion, the tumour itself is found to consist of a soft sub- stance, somewhat like the brain; membranous partitions intersect it, and there are cells, or abscesses, m various places. The tumour frequently dives between the muse es down to the bones, and is not invariably contained in an entire cyst. The adjoining muscles are of a pale colour, and lose their fibrous appearance, becoming more like liver than muscles. The bones near the tumour are always carious. The disease is sometimes caused by external vio- lence ; but frequently the cause is quite unknown. There is no remedy, with which we are acquainted, that seems to have the least power in checking this dire disease ; all escharotics, even undiluted oil of vitriol, are incapable of destroying the fungous growths as fast as they are re- generated. Nothing seems to offer a prospect of preserv- ing life, but the early and total removal of the disease with the knife. This of course is not always practicable on ac- count of the situation of the tumour. W hen it can be done, no part of the surface, surrounding the tumour, should be left, as the disease would certainly recur. This malady is very different from the medullary sar- coma described by Mr. Abernethy, and though it is pro- bable that it has generally been confounded with cancer, it is undoubtedly a widely different disorder, as may be seen by comparing this chapter with that on cancer.FIRST LINES OF THE 165 CHAP. XXXIII. ' 1 'S '> SCROPHULA. PERHAPS this is a subject that requires more elucida- tion than any other, with which medical practitioners have so much to do. Though we daily see myriads of persons afflicted with various forms of scrophulous disease, we know little more than its symptoms, and remain almost in utter ignorance in regard to its causes and cure. The fungus haematodes, cancer,and lues venerea, are cer- tainly hoirid afflictions ; but perhaps they are preferable to scrophula; for we can sometimes totally extirpate the two former maladies by an operation, and we possess a specific for the venereal disease, while no operation can era- dicate scrophula from the system, and though a few medi- cines seem to palliate, not one is efficacious enough to put a certain stop to strumous disorders. Scrophula is more terrible by being an hereditary disease, and th(j peculiar constitution, in which the strumous ten- dency dwells, is very often denoted by particular appear- ances. A fine skin, a delicate complexion, lig’ht-blue eyes, a tumid unhealthy countenance, and a swelling of the upper lip, are so frequently observable in scrophulous subjects, that such marks arc deemed emblems of this pecu- liarity of constitution. The local mischief, produced by scrophula, seems to in- vade ti:c lymphatic glands and the joints more frequently than any other parts. Scrophulous inflammation is attended with a soft swell- ing of the affected part, which is very frequently a.lym- phatic gland. The covering of the gland becomes slightly thickened, and its substance doughy. The swelling in-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 169 creases, and the doughy feel changes by degrees into that of elasticity or fluctuation, and a circumscribed, hardened margin can be felt round the base of the t umour. The skin is slightly red. If, at this time, a puncture be made, little or no matter is evacuated, the lips of the wound in- flame and open, displaying a sloughy looking substance within, and betwixt this and the skin a probe can often be introduced for some way all round. When the disease is farther advanced, the tumour is soft, flaccid, and fluctuating; the skin becomes of a light purple colour, and small veins may be seen ramifying on its surface. The skin at. length becomes thinner, and more dark-coloured at a particular part, then bursts and dis- charges a thin fluid, blended with a curdy matter. 1 he redness of the skin continues, but the aperture enlarges, in proportion as the tumour subsides, and thus a scrophulous ulcer is the result. The margins of this ulcer are smooth, obtuse, and overlap the sore ; they are ol a purple colour, and rather hard and tumid. The surface of the ulcer is of a light-red colour; the granulations arc flabby and indistinct. 1 he discharge is thin, and contains flakes ot coagulated matter. The pain is inconsiderable. Such is the excellent and accurate descript ion of scro- phulous inflammation, suppuration, and ulceration, as afforded us by Mr. Burns. The limits of this work will not permit us to trace every form which a scrophulous ulcer assumes. If a diseased bone be situated under a sore of this kind, there is generally a sinus leading dow ir to the carious part. Scrophulous sores and abscesses frequently heal in one place and then occur in another; and they are generally worse in summer than in w inter. The white swelling of the joints will form the subject of an ensuing chapter, and the bronchocele and lumbar ab-170 FIRST FINES OF THE scess, which may be reckoned strumous disorders, will be noticed in the second part of the work. GENERAL REMARKS ON THE TREATMENT OF SCROPHULA. There is no medicine which, internally administered, has the power of completely correcting the peculiarity of constitution implied by the term scrophulous habit. But there are many medicines which seem to improve this state of the system, and to promote the spontaneous amendment, which strumous affections frequently undergo. Scrophu- lous subjects are possessed of constitutions, in which the natural actions do not proceed with vigour, and it is per- haps on this account that every thing tonic is more or less Useful in cases of-strumous disease. Bark, sea-air and sea-bathing, are among those means, from which patients afflicted with scrophula derive most relief. The muriated barytes has been recommended by Dr. Crawford ; but repeated trials have not greatly in- creased the repute which this medicine suddenly obtained. Mr. Burns gives the following formula ; IP Terras ponder, salit. chryst. gr. x. Aq. font. Aq. cassias utriusque uncias iij. Syrupi Aurentii uncias ij.—To begin with a dos« of|fs twice or three times a day. ' , Burnt sponge, and natron ptt.* are extremely service- able in the relief of scrophula. Cicuta has been greatly recommended, and it ought to he noticed, that its efficacy is chiefly apparent, when given jn cases where there are scrophulous sores of a more irrita- ble nature than common. Mercury, when exhibited so as to produce a salivation, is always hurtful; the only way in which it does good is as an alterative ; and calomel, or the corrosive sublimate, is file most eligible preparation. . * >P Natri ppt. 3j. Saponis 9j. M. ft. pi!, xii. Dosis cjuatuor ter quotid.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. \7\ Two or three drams of nitrous acid, taken daily, are said to have promoted the suppuration of scrophulous glands, and disposed ulcers to heal. If no good effects should he produced in a fortnight, the medicine ought to be discon- tinued. In malignant scrophulous ulcers the hepatised ammo- nia, in the dose of eight or fen drops thrice a day, has proved beneficial by abating pain, and changing the bad aspect of the sores. Vitriolic emetics, repeatedly exhibited, are said to be useful. With respect to the local treatment of scrophulous tu? incurs and ulcers, little is to be said. Such glandular swellings might be safely extirpated with the knife, when they are favourably situated, and the wound would heal as well as could be wished, hut surgeons do not adopt this practice, perhaps because patients experience no se- vere pain from an indolent sort of enlargement, which also in time very often spontaneously gets well, and because the removal of a scrophulous gland can hardly be said to do much good to a patient, whose whole system is under the influence of strumous derangement. Suppurated scrophulous glands ought never to be open- ed, unless the quantity of contained matter is copious, which is very seldom the case. Sometimes such swellings spontaneously diminish without ulceration ; but when a puncture is made this chance is destroyed, as the wound changes into an unhealthy sore. CIIAP. XXXIV. COW POX. AN animal poison, derived from specific sores on the teats and udders of cows, and therefore termed tacrine, Jxas lately become an object of profound and universal at- /172 FIRST LINES OF THE tent ion ; and the English, led on Iiy the immortal Jenner, have obtained for their country the glory of having first brought to light facts relating to this Subject, which are of the very highest importance to the whole.world. The circumstances which now render the cow pox an enquiry of the most interesting kind, are: that the disor- der is capable of being imparted by actual contact to the human species; that the aflection is not merely local, but, produces a general, though, for the most part, a mild in- disposition , and that the person who has once undergone it, is ever afterwards incapable of being contaminated by the small pox infection. PROGRESS OF THE DISEASE AFTER INOCULATION. The first mark ot the operation having succeeded is a small inflamed spot, very distinguishable about the third day. This continues to increase in size, becomes hard, and a small circular tumour is formed, which rises a little above the level of the skin. About the sixth day the centre of (lie tumour has a discoloured speck, in conse- quence of the formation of a small quantity of fluid. The pustule continues to become fuller and fuller after- wards, till about the tenth day. As soon as the pustule contains any fluid, it may be opened to obtain inoculating matter for other patients. From the sixth to the tenth days inclusive is a convenient and advantageous period. After the eighth day, when the pustule is perfectly formed, the effects on the constitution begin to shew them- selves, and are generally preceded by a pain in the pus- tule, and in the axilla; beadach, shivering, loss of appe- tite, &c. A febrile increase of the pulse then ensues. Such symptoms continue, more or less, for one or two days, and subside spontaneously. During the general indisposition, the pustule, which was advancing to maturation in a regular form, becomes *173 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. surrounded with a broad, circular, inflamed margin, which is a criterion of the whole system being affected. When the fever occurs at all, it always takes place before this ef- florescence. After this period the fluid in the pustule dries up, and the surrounding discolouration becomes fainter j a dark-coloured scab forms on the surface of the pustule, and, unless removed, remains about a fortnight. The local appearances above mentioned are more regular than the constitutional symptoms, which are frequently so slight as to escape observation. CHAP. XXXV. VENEREAL DISEASE. THE venereal disease is the consequence of a specific, morbid poison, which, being applied to the surface of the body, produces effects, either on the part to which it is im- mediately applied, or on various parts of the system, iu consequence of absorption. Though we are so well acquainted w ith the operation of the venereal poison on the human body, we remain in per- fect ignorance in respect to its general properties. Our want of information on this subject is, however, the less to be lamented ; for were we as well acquainted with the na- ture.of the venereal virus as we are with that of the acids and alkalies ; were it iu our power, in consequence of this knowledge, to introduce such remedies into the system as would completely neutralize the syphilitic poison out of the body; still our projects would fail, since it is the establish- ed doctrine of the disease, that the mere contact of the vi- rus is sufficient for the future production of the malady.; that the poison, when once introduced into the circulation,FIRST LINES OF THE' 174 produces a disposition to tlie disease in such parts as are susceptible of being affected ; that after the disposition is formed the disorder must follow, even though every atom of the poison be expelled from the system ; and that the number of parts affected depends on circumstances, which we cannot explain. Besides, substances, which might al- ter the nature of the poison out of the system, would pro- bably not have the same effect when introduced among the animal fluids. We know how to dissolve urinary cal- culi in the laboratory ; but we cannot accomplish this ob- ject while the stones, are in the bladders of living patients. It is not likely that the virus remains very long in thesys- tem; very probably it is expelled from the constitution, together with some of the excretions. The disease after- wards occurs in such parts as have acquired the venereal disposition, and these have the power of forming the sy- philitic poison. CHANCRES. Chancres signify sores, which result from the applica- tion of venereal matter to a part of the body ; and conse- quently they are generally situated on the genitals. Tha syphilitic matter, thus applied, produces its specific in- flammation and ulceration, attended with a secretion of pus, and the matter secreted partakes of the nature of the matter first applied. A chancre has commonly a thickened base ; and al- though the common inflammation sometimes spreads much further, the specific is confined to this spot. The preced- ing inflammation begins with an itching ; and if thcglans penis be the part affected, a small pimple, full of matter, forms, without much hardness or swelling. When the disease occurs on the prepuce, or fraenum, the effects of the inflammation are more extensive and visible. The itch- ing is gradually changed into paiiyrthe surface of the pre- puce is, in some cases, excoriated, and afterwards ulcerates;PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 175 In others a small pimple precedes the formation of the ul- cer. Then a thickening of the part takes place; and while this effect remains altogether specific, it is very cir- cumscribed, and its edge terminates rather abruptly. The base of a chancre is hard, and its margin somewhat promi- nent. Sores of this description, situated on the glans, gometimes cause profuse bleeding. In women chancres are usually situated on the labia, or nymphae; sometimes on the perineum, but very rarely in the vagina. TREATMENT OF CHANCRES. Chancres admit of two modes of treatment; 1. to de- stroy them with escharotics, or remove them with the knife ; 2. to overcome the venereal irritation by means of the specific remedy for that poison. By the first method the chancre is reduced to the state of a common sore or wound, and heals up as such. This can only be done on the first appearance of the chancre, when the surrounding parts are not yet contaminated. If the sore be on the glans, touching it with the argentum ni- tratum is preferable to an incision, because the hemorrhage in the latter way would be troublesome. But as in most cases it is uncertain whether absorption has taken place, this practice is not entitled to much confi- dence, even when tire chancre has been destroyed on its first appearance; and it is generally right to give mercury internally. The best dressings for chancres are unguent, hydrarg., or a solution of cuprum, or zincum vitriolat. The modes of giving mercury internally \vill be pre- sently considered. It is here necessary to state that chancres are often in- fluenced in their progress by constitutional causes. In ir- ritable, weak habits, even after the venereal quality of the sores is destroyed by mercury, tire ulceration may conti- nue to spread, or extensive sloughs may form. -The foulFIRST LINES OF THE 176 appearance of the diseased surface leads the unwary prac- titioner (o increase the exhibition of mercury ; and thus the system becomes more and more deranged and debili- tated, and the local mischief proceeds from bad to worse. When chancres spread rapidly by a sloughing process, there is always strong reason to believe^hat the circum- stance is owing to an unfavourable state of the constitu- tion, and irritability of the diseased part. The omission of mercury internally should, in such cases, be tried ; bark, fresh air, and food of a nourishing quality, should be given ; and of all local applications, no one is more ser- viceable than a solution of opium, in the proportion of a dram and a half to a pint of water. Thus the state of the system will be amended ; and, as this happens, those mor- bid appearances of the sore, which depended on general weakness and irritability, will disappear, and then, if ne- cessary, mercury may be given again. An indolent knob, or lump, is sometimes the forerunner, sometimes the consequence of a venereal sore on the penis, and it is very tedious in undergoing any change. BUBOES. Wrhile no venereal matter has been taken up from the surface of a chancre by the absorbent vessels, the disease is entirely a local one. The matter in being absorbed, is very apt in its passage through the inguinal glands, to oc- casion an inflammation and enlargement of them, followed by suppuration and ulceration. This secondary affection is named a venereal bubo. The syphilitic poison may lodge on the sound skin, and be absorbed, without the oc- currence of an ulcer, and a bubo may be the consequence. Buboes are, however, commonly preceded by a chancre; and they more frequently follow sores on the prepuce, than those on the glans. The absorbent glands in the groin are subject to enlarge- ments, altogether unconnected with venereal causes, andPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 477 the practitioner should discriminate syphilitic affections of this kind from other swellings in .lie groin arising from dit- ferent causes. Mr. H unter was of opinion, that common- ly only one gland is affected at the same tune, in conse- quence of the absorption of venereal matter, and, if tins be the case, we have one criterion, by which we may know howto distinguish a venereal bubo from other swellings. 'Venereal matter also affects the glands nearest the seat of absorption, and never those which are situated m the course of the iliac vessels, and higher up. The bubo commonly begins with a sense of pain, and a small hard tumour soon becomes perceptible. This in- creases like every other inflammation that has a tendency to suppurate, and, if not checked, advances to suppuration and ulceration, the progress of the matter to the skin being quick. Some few venereal buboes are slow in their progress, and Mr. Hunter suspected, that, in these instances, the inflam- matory process is retarded by mercury, or a scropliulous ' tendency. The true venereal bubo is usually confined to one gland, and does not become diffused before suppuration has taken place. It is rapid in its progress from inflammation to suppuration and ulceration. The quantity of matter that forms is copious, and the pain is very acute, ihe colour of the skin, affected with inflammation, is a florid red. The nature of an enlarged inguinal gland is always at- tended with more uncertainty, when the swelling has ori- ginated without being preceded by an ulcer on the geni- tals. .JBuboes, which are not venereal, are generally preceded, and attended with a slight fever, or as Mr. Hunter says, the common symptoms of a cold, and the swellings are usually indolent and slow in their progress. When more quick than common, they become more diffused than ve- nereal buboes, and affect more than one gland. In general. NFIRST LINES OF THE 178 they do not suppurate, but continue stationary ; and, when they do suppurate, it is slowly, and often in more glands than one. The matter comes slowly to the skiu, unattend- ed with much pain, and the colour of the integuments is a dark purple. If the swelling is only in one gland, is very slow in its progress, ancl gives but little, or no pain, it is probably scrophulous. TREATMENT OF BUBOES. In attempting to disperse venereal buboes, it is a great object to make as much mercury as possible pass through the swelling, by rubbing tiie unguent hydrarg. on sur- faces, from which the absorbents tend to the local disease. The same plan is equally commendable when a bubo is in a suppurated state; for both in this and the preceding stage of a bubo, the medicine, thus applied, cannot pass, to the common circulation without going through the dis- eased parts, and it must promote the cure in its passage through them, while at the same time it prevents the mat- ter, which has already passed, and is still continuing to pass into the constitution, from acting there, so that the bubo is cured, and the constitution preserved. The thigh, leg, or part of the abdomen, on the same side as the bubo, are the proper places. Mercury, however, can only cure the specific quality of the inflammation. "W hen the common inflammation rises very high, bleeding, purging, and fomentations may be useful auxiliary means. If the bubo be conjoined with erysipelatous inflammation, bark is indicated; if with scrophulous, administer hem- lock, and apply poultices made witli sea-water. Buboes ought seldom to be opened. When it is thought proper to open them, the skin should be allowed to become as thin as possible, as the abscess will heal better in consequence of this rule being observed. The mercurial frictions are to be continued in the way above mentioned, but it is not al-PRACTICE OF SURGEEA. 179 "ays ligUt to persevere in £ *^r" w'- br S^S’SL^u’potent medi- ^ "oases, where the bub. has heaMra^ mercury should be given for a fortmght, or hr«w after thedisease in the groin is quite well. It is impossl to lay down any unexceptionable rules in these cases. Sometimes the sores produced by buboes assume an ^ conditioned appearance, even when they are os g, quite deprived of the venereal disposition. We are no always to set down the backwardness of a bubo to heal, as a mark of the presence of the original disease. The derail, ment, produced in the system by a course of mercury, is frequently a cause why syphilitic buboes are gradu Ily converted into phagedenic ones, or such as nil not cica- trize. In scrophulous constitutions the irritation of nereal matter in its passage through an absorbent ghind frequently gives rise to a scrophulous enlargement of the o-roin, and this disease will not be made to heal by the in- fluence of mercury ; on the contrary, if the system should have already suffered much from a mercurial course, per- severance in this treatment will change the usual indolence of a scrophulous abscess and ulcer, into a very foul, spread- ing, ill-conditioned local disease. Bark, sea-bathing, pure air, and the internal and ex- ternal use of hemlock, are highly serviceable in such cases. LUES VENEREA. A chancre, or a bubo, may occur without the general sys- tem being at all contaminated; but when the virus has been conveyed into the circulation, the whole constitution is, as it were, impregnated with the syphilitic poison, and lues venerea is said then to have taken place. The first order of parts, becoming diseased, in conse- n 2180 FIRST LINES OF THE quenco bf fins diffusion of tlie virus through the system, consists of the skin, tonsils, nose, throat, inside of the mouth, and sometimes the tongue* I he second order of parts, or those becoming affected in the latter stage of lues venerea, comprehends the perios- teum, fasciae, and bones. V'E.VERBA L ERUPTIONS. At first the skin is generally mottfed with discoloura- t ions in every part of the body, no part being more suscep- ^tiole than another. Many at these discolourations disap- pear, while, others continue, and increase with the disease. In Other instances, there are distinct blotches, often not observed till the scurfs are forming. In'some cases the eruptions come out in the form of small distinct inflamma- tions, containing matter, and resembling pimples : but not so pyramidicu!, nor so red at the base. Venereal blotches are often attended with a degree of transparency, particularly in warm weather. The degree of inflammation, first attendant on the eruption, soon goes off, and Hie cuticle peels off in the form of a scurf. A copper-coloured dry inelastic cuticle forms ; this is thrown off and a new scurf of the same kind is regenerated. These appearances spread to the breadth of a sixpence but seldom more extensively, at least for a considerable time. Every succeeding scurf becomes thicker and thicker, fill at last it becomes a common scab, and matter forms in the cutis beneath, so that at last the blotch becomes a true ulcer, which usually spreads, although in a slow manner. ^ ..•■..ft'. VE.VEilEAIi SORE THROAT. In the throat, tonsils, and inside of the mouth, lues ve- nerea generally makes its appearance as an ulcer, without much previous swelling. Common inflammation of the tonsils often suppurates in the centre, so as to form an ab-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. • 131 sciss, which bursts by a small opening: but this com- plaint never looks like an ulcer, which begins on the sur- face, like the true venereal one. This kind of case is al- ways attended with too much inflammation, pain, and swelling, to be venereal, and immediately the little ab- scess has burst, the swelling subsides ; the complaint is also, in general, attended with febrile symptoms. Another disease is an indolent enlargement of the ton- sils, and it is peculiar to persons disposed to scrophula. There are portions of thick mucus, or perhaps coagulating lymph, on the surface of the tonsils, and these are fre- quently mistaken for sloughs, or ulcers. When there is doubt, such matter may be taken away with a probe to shew that there is no cavity beneath. An ulcerous excoriation of the tonsils is another disease, liable to be mistaken for a venereal ulcer of these parts. This sometimes becomes very broad and foul, having a regular margin, but never extending deeply into the sub- stance of the parts, as the venereal ulcer does. The true venereal ulcer is a fair loss of substance, part being as it were dug out from the body of the tonsil. It has a defined edge, and is commonly very foul, having thick white matter adhering to it, like a slough, which cannot be washed away. When the tongue is affected, sometimes if becomes thick- ened and hardened. At other times it ulcerates. NODES. The swellings of the periosteum, tendons, and bones, from a venereal cause, are so called. The progress of the disease iu this form is extremely slow, and attended with little pain. In some cases, however, the pain is consider- able, particularly in the night time. Nodes continue a long time before matter forms, and then it is a very imper- fect kind of suppuration which follows.132 FIRST LINES OF THE Sudden Swellings of the periosteum, without nocturnal pains, are not venereal. v The bones, which are peculiarly liable to nodes, are such as are superficial; for instance, the front surface of the tib a, the bones of the cranium, the triangular part of the ul ua below the olecranon, &c. VENEREAL OPHTHALMY. Mr. Hunter doubted the existence of this case ; but the generality of modern practitioners admit it in the class of diseases. The conjunctiva is said sometimes to have spots on it, somewhat similar to those on the skin.* VENEREAL ULCERS IN CONSEQUENCE OF LUES VENEREA. In the beginning of this chapter it was stated, that a ve- nereal abscess, or ulcer, has the power of generating mat- ter of a specific quality, and similar to that which first caused the disease. This remark, however, only applies to a chancre and a bubo; for secondary venereal sores, or such as result from the general contamination of the sys- tem, do not secrete matter, capable of communicating the disease by inoculation or absorption, TREATMENT OF LUES VENEREA, Mercury is the great specific in the eure of all venereal complaints, and it may be conveyed into the system, either externally by the skin, or internally by the mouth. In particular constitutions mercury employed in one way seems to have no effect on the constitution, or disease, and then it must be tried in the other. In the same way, when one preparation of the medicine proves ineffectual, another should be tried, as the change is frequently followed by * The symptoms and treatment will be described in the chapter op ophthalmy.183 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. more beneficial effects on the disease than many might suppose. • Sometimes the bowels can hardly bear mercnry, and, m this circumstance, it is to be given in the mildest form pos- sible, conjoined with other remedies for diminishing its bad effects on the viscera. The external employment of mercury is in general t e most advantageous and convenient. In ‘dving mercury the first attention should be to the quantity, and its visible effects at a given time; for v lien these effects have attained a certain pitch they are not to be increased, but only kept up, while the decline of the disease is watched ; thus we judge of the invisible or spe- cific effects of the medicine. The visible effects of mercnry are of two kinds ; the one on the constitution, the other on parts capable of secretion. In the first it appears to produce universal irritability, quick pulse, &e. Salivation, or an extraordinary secre- tion of saliva, attended with soreness of the gums and mouth, forms the second description of effects, T he latter affection forms the criterion, by which practitioners gener- ally calculate the influence, under which mercury has placed the constitution. Mercury should always be introduced into the system gradually, beginning with small quantities, which may af- terwards be increased. One scruple, or half a dram of mercurial ointment may be rubbed in at first every night, if the mouth is not affected, the quantity may be gradual ly increased to two or three drams. If all the symptoms dis- appear, the frictions may be continued a fortnight after- wards by way of security. When mercury is given internally, there are three pre- parations commonly preferred in venereal cases ; the pil. hydrarg. which may be given in the dose of gr. x every night, either with or without opium, as circumstances .nay Indicate ; the^ hydrarg. calcin. in the dose of gi. i. with184 FIRST LINES OF THE or without opium ; and lastly, a solution of the muriate of mercury (sublimate). One fourth of a grain, dissolved m brandy, or any aromatic water, is the usual dose. With respect to the preparations of mercury, the most simple are not only best, in consequence of their acting whli least violence to the system, but also because they prove most efficacious in the cure of the disease. Hence frictions with the ointment, and the pil. hydrarg. are the most commendable. It is incumbent on me to mention fumigation, another mode of introducing mercury into the constitution through the*skin. Mr. Abernethy has spoken of the advantages of this plan in a publication, and he recommends a powder for the purpose, made by agitating calomel in water, mix- ed with the volatile alkali. The patient is to be placed in a machine, not unlike a sedan chair, but having an open- ing at the top, out of which the patient can put his head. A heated iron is placed in the inside, and when the pow- der is thrown on the hot surface of the iron it becomes vo- latilized, and deposited on the surface of the patient’s body,* This is a most expeditious mode of impregnating the constitution. Mr. Abernethy has thus cured a venereal sore throat in the short space of sixty hours. „ When a patient is too weak to rub in mercury, or to bear its inter- nal exhibition, this plan might be very useful. The established doctrine is, that mercury cures the vene- real disease, not on any chemical principle, but by the particular action, which it excites in the constitution and parts affected. AY ith respect to nodes, mercury is frequently incapable ot removing the whole of ihe swelling. In such cases, * Ihe patient is afterwards to put on his flannel waistcoat and drawers. Very probably it would be quite sufficient to fumigate the inside ol the clothes, and let them be put on carefully afterwards.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 185 blisters applied in the vicinity, and kept open with the savin cerate, are highly beneficial. It is impossible, in a work of this sort, to treat of the whole of this extensive subject. Phymosis, paraph .mo- sis, gonorrhoea, hernia humoralis, &c. will be explained in the second part of the publication. CHAP. XXXVI. WHITE SWELLINGS, AND OTHER AFFEC- TIONS OF THE JOINTS. WHITE SWELLINGS. THE large joints, such as the knee, ankle, wrist, and elbow, are most exposed to the attack ol this alarming malady. In the first stages of the disease the skin is not at all altered in colour. The swelling sometimes yields in a certain degree to pressure, but is generally sufficiently firm to make the uninformed examiner believe, that the bones contribute to the tumour. Whatever degree of pain may attend the early stage of the disorder, it particu- larly affects only one point of the articulation, in general its centre, or the head of the tibia. In most cases the tu- mour at fintt is very trivial, although the pain is severe. When the knee is,affected a fulness is first observed to oc- cupy the little hollows, which are naturally situated on each side of the patella. This prominence augments, and the whole articulation soon becomes every where very pal- ' pably enlarged. As the patient cannot bear the weight of his body on the affected limb, he gets into the habit of only touching the ground with his toe, and thus the knee is generally kept a little bent, and the power of completely extendingfirst lines of the eased joints, and influenced by general opinion, I once 1*6 11 again is soon lost. In advanced cases, the knee is al- ways found in a permanent stale of flexion. , f * IenSth tbe leased joint attains an enormous size, ut the skin is not materially affected, a shining smoolh- neSS> and a few var*cose veins, being the only uncommon appearances. The skin, however, cannot now be pinched up into a told, as it could in the early stage of the disease. At last abscesses form around the joint, and their con- tents arc discharged through ulcerated apertures. These openings sometimes heal after a time, and other similar abscesses take place at a different part of the tumour. The patient’s health gradually becomes impaired by the Iqca! disease. His appetite fails ; lie cannot sleep at night; his pulse is spall and frequent ; he has profuse perspira- tions ; and his bowels are otten disordered with diarrhoea. Under such symptoms dissolution follows sooner or Tater, unless the local disease be relieved. There is another kind ot white swelling, termed rheuma- tic, and it is very different from the scrophulous just de- scribed. fn the rheumatic the pain is said never to occur without some swelling being evident., nor does the acuteness of the pain subside in proportion as the tumefaction increases. On the other hand, scrophulous white swellings are al- ways preceded with pain, which is not so acute after the swelling commences as it was before. In rheumatic cases the pain is not confined to-a particular point , but extends over the whole articulation, and the health is not so much impaired as in the other instances. I believe, also, the bones do not undergo the morbid alteration, which is pe- culiar to scrophulous affections of the joints. Rheumatic cases are more frequently cured than scrophulous ones. It is a very prevailing notion, that, in white swellings, the heads of the bones are preternaturally enlarged. I must frankly own, that, deceived by the feel of many dis-187 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. imbibed the idea, that there is oftentimes a regular expan- sion of the heads of scrophulous bones. But, excepting an occasional enlargement, which arises from spicule ot osseous matter, deposited on the outside of the tibia, ulna, &c and which alteration cannot be called an expansion of those bones, I never have been an eye-witness of the head of a bone being of preternaturally large dimensions, in consequence of the disease known by the name of white swelling. I have been in the habit of frequently inspect- ing the state of the numerous diseased joints, which are an- nually amputated in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, and though I have long been attentive to this point, my searches after a really enlarged scrophulous bone have al- ways been in vain. The change, which the head of the tibia undergoes in many cases, is first a partial absorption of the phosphate of lime throughout its texture, while a soft kind of matter seems to be secreted into its substance. In a more advanced stage, and indeed in that stage which most frequently takes place before a joint is amputated, the head of the bone has deep excavations in consequence of caries, and its structure is now so softened, that when an instrument is pushed against the carious part it easily pe- netrates deeply into the bone. A cursory examination of the diseased joint, even when it is cut open, will not suffice to shew that the bones are not enlarged. I dissected one a few weeks ago, and on first looking at the parts, the swelling had every appearance of arising from an actual expansion of the bones. An intel- ligent medical friend, who was present, felt the ends of the bones after the integuments were removed, and he co- incided with me, that the feel, which was even now com- municated, seemed-to be caused by a swelling of the bones themselves. But on cleaning them, the enlargement was demonstrated to arise entirely from a thickening of the 6oft parts. The soft parts undergo a material change ; they are both188 . FIRST lines of the thickencl and softened ; and there is a large quantity of a viscid fluid intermixed ivilli the cellular substance. In shorl, the whole texture of the cellular membrane becomes thicker and softer than in the healthy state. In the cavity of the joint we sometimes find a quantity of curdy matter, aud the cartilages absorbed in various places. TREATMENT OF WHITE SWELLINGS. ' , Whiie spellings, whether of that description which has been termed rheumatic, or of that which is denominated scrophulous, present themselves in practice in two very dif- ferent stages : in one, there is a degree of acute inflamma- tion about the joint; in the other, the affection is entirely chronic. Topical bleeding, and cold saturnine lotions arc cer- tainly indicated when acute inflammation is present, and what is implied by the antiphlogistic treatment may now be advantageously employed. I cannot, however, with- hold my censure from those practitioners, who lose weeks and months in the adoption of such treatment. The plan is truly useful, as long as the integuments are hot and ten- der, and there are symptoms of inflammatory fever; but no sopner is this stage past, than such treatment becomes ridiculously inert, and by preventing the employment of really efficacious measures, it may even be considered as in some degree conducive to the increase of a most terrible disease. Some mild cases of while swellings, probably rheumatic, may be cured by using topical applications, composed of strong astringents of the mineral and vegetable kingdom. Mr. Russell recommends a solution of alum in the decoc- tion of oak bark. There are other instances, in which the employment of sea-water as a lotion to the joint is beneficial. I have seen several cases, in which the enlargement has been diminish-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. »S§ ed by Ibis application; but I cannot say that I have ever known one example, in which a perfect cure was accom- plished by it. Sea-air and sea-bathing undoubtedly have very powerful elfects on scrophulous alFections in general, and most particularly so on such diseases, when situated in the joints. With respect to electricity, I believe it is of no use in these diseases; in a tew instances, it is true, it has seemed to do good ; but in others, according to my own judg- ment, it rather exasperated than diminished the disorder. Fomentations and poultices I consider perfectly inert, and quite unworthy the praises which some writers be- stow on them. The only method of treatment which my own personal experience enables me to recommend, consists in keeping up a continual discharge of pus trom the surface of the joint. In these cases I am rather inclined to prefer blisters to issues, as being more efficacious; but when blisters some- times create much irritation all over the joint, a caustic issue is to be preferred. The blister should be large, and the excoriated surface dressed with savin cerate. Some practitioners recommend blistering first one side of the joint, then the other alternately for a considerable time. Thus while one blister is healing, the other is forming. This method is said to be attended with considerable suc- cess. Caustic issues are usually made on each side of the joint, and in knee cases they are commonly as large as halt-crowns. DISEASE OF THE HIP JOINT. For the purpose of comprehending tlie whole subject of diseased joints in the present chapter, I enter on the consi- deration of the hip disease, particularly as it is very analo- gous to the disorder which we have just quitted. Disease of the hip joint is most commonly met with in children uader the age of fourteen; but no age is exempt190 ElRST LINES OF TIIE from the malady, so that though children form a large pro- portion of those subjects who are afflicted, yet the number of adults, and even old persons, is also considerable. The approach of the hip disease is far more insidious than that of a white swelling. The latter is generally pre- ceded by severe pain, while frequently the only forerunner of the forrrter is a slight weakness and limping of the affect- ed limb. As at first there is often no complaint of uneasi- ness in the hip, while pains affect the knee, it is not uncom- mon to observe the seat of the disorder mistaken, and appli- cations erroneously made to the latter joint. Even when a fixed pain begins to be felt behind the trochanter, as the joint is not visibly enlarged, the affection is too often disre- garded as one of no importance in young subjects, and as a mere rheumatic or gouty complaint in adults. The pain is also not confined to the seat of the disease, but shoots downward in the course of the vastus exbgrnus to the knee, and along the outer part of the fibula to the malleolus ex- ternus. Many refer their painful sensations to the groin. Almost as early as the least limping can be perceived, some diminution in the circumference of the leg and thigh has actually taken place. When pressure is made on the front of the acetabulum, pain is excited. Another strong pathognomonic symptom is the elongation of the limb in the incipient stage of the hip disease. I his change is easily discoverable by comparing the condyles of the osfemoris, the patella, the trochanter major, and malleolus inlernus, of the diseased limb, with the same parts of the sound one. This elongation of the lower extremity in the present case is a very striking circumstance, and one which has never yet been satisfactorily accounted for. The natural fulness and convexity of the nates become flattened. The gluteus m&gnus is emaciated, and its edge no longer forms so bold a line as it naturally does at the up- per and back part of the thigh, in the sound state of the limb.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 191 Though there may he more pain ahout the knee than the hip at some periods of the malady, the former joint may al- ways be bent and extended without any increase of uneasi- ness ; but the thigh bone cannot be moved without making the patient experience an increase of suffeiing. Patients soon get into the habit of keeping the thigh somewhat bent, and it can seldom afterwards be complete- ly straightened. Such is the first stage of the disease in its ordinary forms when the health is commonly little impaired. The second stage of the disease is that which is attended with suppura- tion. The symptoms, which are the forerunners of the forma- tion of pus, are different in different cases. This variety depends on the presence of acute, or only chronic inflam- mation. When the former occurs, the parts surrounding the joint, become tense and painful; the skin is even red- dish, and sympathetic inflammatory fever occurs. As the local pain abates rigors take place ; and a swelling, which very soon points, forms in the vicinity of the joint. When the abscess is the consequence of that languid kind of inflammation, which usually occasions scrophulous col- lections of matter, there is not so remarkable an increase of pain in the articulation previously to the occurrence ofsup- puration. Startings and catchings during sleep, are said to be among the most certain siffns of the formation of mat- ter. When the pus forms in this chronic manner, it does not make its wray to the surface so quickly as in cases of ac- tive inflammation. A large fluctuating tumour forms, but it does no* immediately point. At last the limb becomes shortened, and this circumstance when the retraction is considerable, arises from nothing less than an actual dislocation of the h<#d of t he thigh bone, in consequence of the destruction of the cartilages, ligaments, and articular cavity. The shortening of the limb some- times happens before suppuration, for the most part after it.192 FIRST LINES OF THE There arc instances in which the head of Ihc bone is dislo- cated, and anchylosis follow's without any occurrence of ab- scesses. Sometimes before matter forms, patients are greatly de- jected by hectic symptoms. In the suppurative stage, the effects on the constitution always become worse. The openings through which the abscesses are dischar- ged, continue in most instances, to emit an unhealthy kind of matter for a long while. The patient either dies of hec- tic symptoms, or escapes with an anchylosis. Morbid anatomy evinces, that the disease, in its advanced state, produces a destruction of the ligaments and cartilages of the joint; the ossa innominata composing the acetabu- lum, are softened in texture, and have large portions defi- cient in consequence of absorption. The head of the os femoris is also frequently affected in tlie same way, and sometimes dislocated on the dorsum of the ilium, large ab- scises occasionally surrounding it. The remote causes of the hip disease are often in disco- verable. A scrophulous habit, external violence, and ly- iruc on the damp ground in summer, undoubtedly frequent- ly contribute to the production of the disease. TREATMENT. From the analogy between the white swelling and hip disease, it is easy to perceive, that the two cases ought to be treated on similar principles. Every thing said on this subject, in the preceding part of the chapter, is lor the most part applicable here. However, though I have thought blisters most effica- cious in checking disease of the knee, caustic issues excel in hip cases. The benefit resulling from both sorts of appli- cations is to be imputed partly to the counter irritation, and partly to the discharge which they occasion. The proper situation for the issue is in the depression just behind and below the trochanter major. It should bePRACTICE OF SURGERY, 193 somewhat larger than a half crown when the patient is an adult. The Bath water has been much extolled in these cases, as an external application. Patients who try it are put into a warm bath. It is very probable, that its efficacy has been much exaggerated, and that many of the cases, stated to have been cured by it, have been gouty or rheu- matic affections. OF CARTILAGINOUS SUBSTANCES IN JOINTS. These preternatural bodies are either attached to a part of the inside of the joint, or are quite unconnected and loose. They are mostly met with in the knee, though we have instances on record of their being found in the arti- culation of the rjaw, ankle^and elbow. It is in the knee that they become objects of surgical attention. AVhile they continue by the side of the patella, they cause but little trouble; but when they slip under the ligament of t hat bone, or between the same bone and the condyles of the femur, or between the latter bone and the head of the tibia, they impede progression, cause considerable pain, and often excite inflammation. Cartilaginous tumours only continue to enlarge as long as they are connected by a pedicle with some part of the cavity of the joint. They seldom exceed an almond in size. Mr. Home, however, mentions an instance, in which one became nearly as large as the patella. TREATMENT. If we except making an incision into the joint, we are not acquainted with any certain means of freeing a patient from the inconvenience of this complaint. To this plan the danger attendant on all wounds of so large an articula- tion in the knee is a very serious objection. Messrs. Middleton and Gooch endeavoured to conduct the extraneous body into a situation where it produced oFIRST LINES OF THE 194 no pain, and to keep it there by bandages a consider- able time, under the idea that it Mould not afterwards change its place, and cause inconveniences. The cases adduced by these gentlemen are not conclusive, as they had no opportunity of seeing their patients again at the end of a reasonable length of time, and it is not uncommon for cartilaginous substances in the joints to disappear for halt a year, and then re-appear, and become troublesome again. Mr. Hey tried the efficacy of a laced knee-cap, and the cases, which he has produced, clearly demonstrate that the benefit thus obtained is not temporary, at least as long as the patient continues to wear the bandage. Considering the evidence which we have on this sub- ject, and the perilous symptoms sometimes following wounds of the knee-joint, I think the effect of a knee-cap, or of a roller and compress, ought generally to be tried be- fore having recourse to excision. I say generally, because the conduct of the surgeon ought in such cases to be adapt- ed to the condition and inclination of the patient. If a man is deprived of his livelihood by not being able to use his knee; if he cannot, or will not take the trouble of wearing a bandage; if he is urgently desirous of running the risk of operation; if a bandage is not productive of sufficient relief; and lastly, if excessive pain, and inflam- mation of the joint are frequently produced by the com- plaint, I think it is the duty of a surgeon to operate. » ' \ OPERATION. When we remember that the disorder is often attended with a degree of heat and tenderness in the articulation; when we recollect that the danger of the operation is pro- portioned to the subsequent inflammation ; and when we also recal to mind, that if the wound unite by the first in- tention, a great deal of the danger is removed ; we cannot , doubt the propriety of keeping the patient in, bed a fewI PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 195 days before operating, and of applying leeches and cold saturnine lotions to the articulation. Ihus the joint is brought into a perfectly quiet state before the incision is made. A mild saline purgative should also be previously exhibited. As the cartilaginous body can generally be moved round the joint, the surgeon can chuse the situation for his in- cision. I think Mr. Abernethy’s plan is as safe and com- modious as any method. This gentleman recommends bringing the piece of cartilage on the inner surface of the internal condyle of the os femoris, where the assistant is to confine it by placing the points of his fingers in a circular manner round it. The integuments are to be drawn to one side, before the wound is made, in order that they may cover the opening in the capsular ligament immediately after the operation. As soon as the cartilage is exposed, it can be taken hold of with a tenaculum and extracted. HYDROPS ARTICULI. The knee is more subject than other joints to dropsical disease. The affection is very frequently preceded by se- vere rheumatic affections and local violence. "W hen the fluid is not so copious as to produce very great distention of the capsule, a fluctuation is easily distinguishable. Also, if tlie limb be extended, so as to relax the ligament of the patella, pressing the collection of fluid causes a rising of that bone, and a fullness on each side of it. The disease is commonly not attended with much pain, but there is a degree of rigidity in the joint. Mr. Russd has adopted the opinion, thal some cases of this kind are venereal, and others serophulous, though he has not supported the doctrine on any solid foundation. Hydrops articuli sometimes follows fevers. > TREATMENT. The indication is to excite the absorbents to remove the Q 9190 FIRST LINES OF THE preternatural quantity of fluid. I never saw any instance which did not yield to blistering the part, and keeping up a discharge by means of the savin ointment. The opera- tion of a blister may always be very materially assisted by a bandage. Moderate exercise ; frictions with flannel, im- pregnated with the fumes of vinegar ; camphorated mer- curial ointment; electricity, and mercurial purges, are useful means. When hydrops articuli occurs during the debility, con- sequent to typhoid and other fevers, the complaint can hardly be expected to get Avell before the constitution has regained strength. I have never; seen any case in w hich the circumstances seemed to justify making an opening into the joint. But excessive distention, in some neglected cases, might cer- tainly be an urgent reason for performing such an opera- tion. Also, if the complaint should resist all other plans of treatment, and the irritation of the tumour should greatly impair a weak constitution, the practice would be justifiable. A case ofthis sort is related by Mr. Latta. CHAP. XXXVII. SEVERAL DISEASES OF THE BONES. VENEREAL nodes, and the scrophulous change of the bones, have already been noticed. SPINA YENTOSA. When matter forms in the internal structure of a bone the disease has received this w himsical name. The com- plaint is most frequently met with in unhealthy children,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 197 and it begins with a dull, heavy, deeply-seated pain, the limb appearing outwardly quite sound. In general the disease is not ascertained before the affected bone becomes expanded. At length the matter arrives beneath the peri- osteum, and a tumour resembling a deep-seated abscess is produced. As soon as the nature of the case is ascertained, the mat- ter ought to be evacuated through a perforation made into the bone with a small trephine. Unfortunately it is difficult to know the early existence of the disorder with certainty. Exfoliation generally takes place before the termination of the case. Amputation ought not to be practised, unless the immediate preservation of life should be at stake. Bark, wine, good air, and nourishing diet, are peculiarly necessary in this tedious and debilitating sort of case. Analogous to the spina ventosa is the formation of mat- ter in the medullary structure of the cranium, in conse- quence of a violent blow on the head. As the matter is secreted it spreads throughout the diploe, and at length portions both of the external and internal table of the skull are absorbed, so as to form numerous foramina, and allow the pus to insinuate itself between the cranium and dura mater, or beneath the pericranium. In this case an opening should be made with the trephine very early, in order to prevent the diffusion of mischief. NECROSIS, EXFOLIATIONS, &C. The death of a whole bone, or chief part of one, is term- ed necrosis ; the same affection of a smaller portion is de- nominated an exfoliation, or caries. When necrosis occurs, new bony matter is frequently deposited around the dead bone, and in time the latter is removed by the absorbents. These vessels seem, however, to act with energy in the accomplishment of this work, only when the external ulcerations are very small, or quisle198 FIRST LINES OF THE healed. The new-formed bony case, which is so large as to include the whole bone, and so strong as to support the body, gradually, though slowly, diminishes nearly to its natural size.* TREATMENT, It is a great object to make any sore heal. "Wlien large portions of dead bone are loose, openings must be made in the skin in order to extract them ; but when new bony matter is deposited all round the old bone, little more can be done than to keep up the patient’s strength, and en- deavour to heal every ulcerated aperture. The latter ob- ject very frequently cannot be fulfilled. Mr. Hey’s saw may sometimes be useful in cutting out dead pieces of bone, which are tardy in exfoliating. These cases are frequently so tedious, and impair the health so much, as to render amputation inevitable. Osseous tumours growing from bones are termed exos- toses. Some persons seem to have such a tendency to the disorder, that common injuries, which would create no particular consequences in ordinary constitutions, are fol- lowed in them by the growth of bony swellings. It has been recommended in such cases to give muriatic and other acids, and to forbid all food containing earth. I rather suspect the disorder is quite beyond the reach of medicine. Exostoses might, however, be occasionally re- moved by surgical operations. MOLL1TIES 0SS1UM. The bones sometimes become softened throughout their texture, and preternaturally flexible. The morbid affec- tion is connected with a deficiency of lime in the altered bones, which yield to the actions of the muscles, and * Mr. Lawrence has informed me of a case, under Mr. Crowther, where blisters were eminently useful in promoting the curative process, in a necrosis of the thigh bone.199 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. bend in various directions. The case of Mad. Supiot is the most remarkable, which we have on record s her thigh bones were so pliable, that her feet might easily be laid on each side of her head ; almost every bone in her body was affected in the same way, so that before she died she had become deformed in a most extraordinary manner, and was two feet two inches shorter than she was originally, before being affected with the disease. This case may be considered quite beyond the reach of medical skill. fragilitas ossium. Mr. Gooch lias described an instance, in which the bones became unusually brittle, before the morbid flexibi- lity of them took place. RICKETS. Weak and particularly scrophulous children are sub- ject to this disorder, in which the bones, in conse- quence of a deficiency of lime in their structure, cannot bear the weight of the body, and become distorted. In infants, who are too young to walk, the action of the mus- cles is sufficient to make the bones, particularly those of the lower extremity, deviate from the natural figure. There are various mechanical contrivances sold in Lon- don for supporting rickety bones, and gradually restoring them to a straight figure. It is not necessary to offer here a description of any apparatus for the purpose. Bark, tonic medicines in general, and cold sea bathing, improve rickety children by strengthening the system ? for in pro- portion as this happens the phosphate of lime becomes se- creted in a more regular manner, and wish the aid of me- chanical contrivances, very great deformities are gradual- ly removed. In all the three abovementioned disorders, as there seems to be a want of earth in the texture of the bones, it has been proposed to give internally the phos* phate of lin^e.FIRST LINES OF THE £00 CHAP. XXXVIII. FRACTURES. FRACTURES are of two principal kinds, viz. simple and compound. By a. simple fracture is implied, a division of one or more bones, without any external w ound, caused by the protru- sion of the ends of the fractured bones. By a compound fracture is meant a breach in the continuity of one or more bones, together with a laceration of the integuments, which laceration is caused by the protrusion of one or both the ends of the fracture. To these divisions of the subject some add a third, call- ing that fracture complicated, which is attended with se- veral breaches of continuity in the injured bone, and with the wound of any large nerve, blood-vessel, &c. Fractures arc also distinguished into longitudinal, transverse, and oblique, according to the direction in which they run. SIMPLE FRACTURES. The symptoms of fractures are exceedingly various ac- cording to thebones which are broken; and though almost all writers have indiscriminately mentioned loss of motion in the injured limb, deformity, swelling, tension, pain, &c. as forming the general diagnosis of fractures, yet it is easily comprehensible by any one acquainted with the' structure of the body, that numerous fractures cannot pre- vent the motion of the part, or occasion outward deformity; and every surgeon must know, that though at first there may be pain in the situation of a fracture, no swelling and tension take place till after a certain period.PRACTICE OF SURGERY, 201 When therefore a limb is broken, and the event is not manifest from the distortion of the part, it is proper to trace with the fingers the out-lines of the suspected bone, and wherever any unusual pain occurs, or any unnatural irregularity appears, to try if no grating, or crepitus, can be felt on endeavouring to make one end of the bone rub against the other. When the os humeri, or os femoris, is the subject of injury, a crepitus is felt almost as soon as the limb is touched, and in the case of the thigh, there is con- siderable shortening of the extremity, unless the fracture be of the transverse kind. But when there are two bones, as in the leg and fore-arm, and only one is broken, the other continues to prevent the limb from being shortened, and thrown out of its natural shape, so that a crepitus can only be felt by a proper examination with the fingers. I am aware that considerable harm, and great unnecessary pain, have been occasioned in the practice of surgery by an over-officious care to feel the grating of fractured bones, find whenever the case is sufficiently evident to the eyes, I cannot refrain from censuring those practitioners who indulge their own ill-judged habits at the ex pence of torture to the unfortunate patient. A fracture is an in- jury that is necessarily attended with considerable pain, and followed by a great deal of tension, and to increase these evils by rough handling of the part is above all things cruel, and, I would add, unsurgical. In cases of fractures the muscles of the limb are often af- fectcd witli involuntary spasms, which put the patient to great pain, and when the thigh-bone, arm-bone, or both bones of the leg, or fore-arm, are broken, occasion great distortion, while the violence of each spasm continues. PROCESS BY WHICH FRACTURES ARE UNITED. The steps of nature, in the union of broken bones, are very similar to those which she pursues in the union of wounds of the soft parts. The vessels ramifying on the ends of the fracture first effuse coagulating lymph. This202 FIRST LINKS OF THE i gradually becomes vascular ; and as its vessels acquire the power ot depositing earthy matter, it is ultimately con- verted into new bone, termed callus, which becomes the bond of union between the two portions of the fractured bone. In order that the first connecting substance may speedily become organised, and fitted for the formation of callus, no- thing is so favourable as perfect quietude. Hence the chief surgical indication in (lie treatment of fractures, after the ends of the bones, are replaced, is to keep them perfectly motionless : nature completes the rest. .Different bones re- quire different lengths of time to become firmly united ; the ribs and clavicle unite as soon as any; the os brachii is commonly tolerably firm in five weeks ; but the bones of the leg and the os femoris seldom become per- fectly strong in less than six weeks. These calculations refer, however, to adults'; for in children fractures are cured much more quickly than in grown up persons. The more vascular the bone's are, the sooner is the union of their fractures accomplished. GENERAL PRINCIPLES IN THE TREATMENT OP FRAC- TURES. Relaxation of such muscles as have the power to dis- place the ends of a fractured bone, extremely facilitates the reduction. A proper position is, indeed, the first thing to be attended to in almost all cases, in which the broken extremities of the bone are not in even contact. The muscles are the powers which cause the displaced condi- tion of the fracture, by drawing that end of the bone which is most moveable, out of its proper position in regard to that which is most fixed. Hence, in the extremities, the lower ends of fractures are those which are truly displaced by being drawn upward, or to one side, by the action of ' certain muscles, which have their origin and insertions both above and below the situation of the breach of conti-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 203 nuity. The muscles, therefore, which have the power of displacing the lower ends of such fractures, are the powers which we ought principally to endeavour to counteract. In oblique fractures it is much more difficult to keep tie ends of the bones in a proper state of apposition, because two oblique surfaces make no mechanical resistance to that effect (viz. retraction of the lower portion of the broken bone), which the strong muscles have a continual tendency to produce. But relaxation of the muscles which have the greater influence over a fracture, is not only to be observed during the time when the surgeon is setting the broken bone : it is to be strictly adopted throughout the whole cure, at least until the two ends of the bone have become firmly united together. Were this plan not to be followed, the fracture would very soon be displaced again by muscular action. The principle from which the utility of relaxing mus- cles in these cases arises, is the fact that every muscle can only contract to a certain degree of shortness; and that in proportion as its origin and insertion become approximat- ed, it loses both the power and disposition to act in an in- voluntary manner. The reflecting reader may enquire, what particular po- sition can relax every muscle connected with a broken bone ? The same position which relaxes the flexors seems to have quite an opposite effect on the extensors. The answer is, that no posture will completely relax every set of muscles in every instance; and in this circumstance the joints must be placed in the middle state, between perfect flexion and perfect extension, as in this manner, though complete relaxation is not effected, most ot the muscles will not be in the state ot tension "W hen, however, every muscle having the power to displace a fracture can be le- laxed,the others, which have no power over the progress of the case, may be neglected, and the posture determined accordingly. Thus in the fracture of the thigh, where wefirst lines of the m cannot perfectly relax every muscle capable of disturbing the fracture, we place the hip and knee-joints in the mid state, between perfect flexion and extension : in the frac- ture of the patella, where we can relax every muscle which can resist the object of the surgeon, we regulate the pos- ture, without any regard to muscles, which have no influ- ence over the fracture. . 'Illc ProPer positions for particular fractures will be no- ticed in the second part of this work. Having relaxed the muscles according to the above principles, and placed the ends of the fracture into as even a situation in regard to each other as the nature of the case will allow, the next object is to keep them securely and quietly in this state, until they have become firmly united. Incapacitating the most powerful muscles by position is one great means towards this measure. But in certain constitutions almost all the muscles of the injured limb are continually acting in a violent, involuntary, and spasmodic manner. Such patients, if young and robust, should be bled, and should always take an opiate as soon alter the occurrence of the accident as convenient. But much as position facilitates the favourable union ol fractures, other means are necessary for maintaining the ends of the broken bone in their proper situation, and in a perfectly quiet state. Mechanical contrivances are em* ployed to give that degree of support to the limb, which the breach ol continuity in the bone or bones has taken away. Instruments, called splints, are applied for this pur- pose, so as to form as it were a kind of steady, unyielding case for the limb. Splints ought to be made of strong mateiials, and of a sufficient length to reach beyond tLe two joints nearest the fracture, and they ought to be adapt- ed in shape to the contour ol the limb. They are gene- rally secured by straps, or tapes. Since splints, however, are hard, and would give pain, if firmly applied to the limb without the intervention ofPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 205 soft materials, it is customary to place a piece of the em- plastrum saponis immediately over the fracture, and to apply, what is termed, aneighteen-tailed bandage, between which latter and the splints, are also interposed pads filled with tow, or any other soft substances. Compresses are generally placed in situations under the splints, where the pressure from such hard instruments is likely to give most pain. When there is much swelling before the ^racture is set, surgeons generally apply cold saturnine lotions instead ot a plaster for the first few days ; and the linen employed for this purpose can be kept sufficiently wet (without taking off the splints), by squeezing the lotion out of a sponge into the interspaces betw'een them. The great parade in making violent extension, in order to reduce fractures, is quite abandoned by the moderns. When the muscles are relaxed in a scientific manner, the ends of the fracture may, in general, be put into a state of apposition with the greatest ease, and very little extension is necessary. Many fractures are not in the least dis- placed. ciiap. xxxix. COMPOUND FRACTURES. A COMPOUND fracture is accompanied with a wound of the integuments, caused by a protrusion of the end of the broken bone. When the wound is large and lacerated, when the bone or bones are splintered into several pieces, and when the neighbouring muscles have suffered a violent degree of contusion, the case must be considered as extremely dan-206 FIRST LINES OF THE gerous, and the brightest talents are required to guide its treatment. A limb in this condition submitted to the inspection and judgment oi the discerning and scientific practitioner, pre- sents to him one of the most difficult cases, requiring a sudden decision, that is met with in surgery. Under these circumstances the loss of one quarter of an hour often determines the event ot the case in a fatal manner. So great and considerable an injury inflicted upon parts endued with life and sensibility, capable of inflammation, suppuration, and gangrene, cannot be expected to take place without being followed by the most severe effects of constitutional sympathy. Let us picture to ourselves, that an experienced surgeon has decided it to be most pru- dent to attempt the preservation of a limb which has suf- fered a compound fracture; let us suppose that he has adopted the ablest method of treating tire case; the frac- ture being placed as nearly in its natural situation as cir- cumstances will admit, and the wounded integuments brought nicely into contact by means of adhesive plaster, in order that the union of the wound by the first intention may succeed. Perhaps the case may take such a fortunate and favourable course, that the degree of local inflamma- tion shall not be extensive, nor so high as to prevent the adhesive inflammation from uniting the external wound ; and whenever there is little local inflammation the sympa- thetic fever is alwaj^s proportionally moderate. The primary grand object in view, in all cases of com- pound fractures, is to convert them into simple ones, by uniting the external wound of the integuments as speedily as possible : an object which, from the laceration and con- tusion present, is often frustrated. Let us represent to ourselves another case, in which the local violence is followed by higher inflammation, so that the wound has not united by the first intention, and sup-207 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. puration lias been the consequence ; here, probably, a con- siderable degree of sympathetic fever takes place, and very great powers of constitution will be necessary to bear the irritation and copious discharge that is likely to come from the wound for a great length of time. Sometimes, in this state, the constitution impaired and weakened by the local disease, is attacked by hectic symptoms; fresh irritation happens in the fracture ; large suppurations take place undeu the fascia, which require puncturing, and the patient is thus brought to the lowest condition, which must soon inevitably conclude, if it is not in the power of sur- gery to make a prompt attempt to alter the nature of the case. At other times, the patient’s constitution holding out, the suppuration in 'the wound is soon accompanied with the formation of granulations, and cicatrization fol- lows. We will consider a third case, where the violence done to the limb has been more severe, so as to be followed by a speedy mortification of the w hole extremity, and death of the patient. Here, perhaps, had the limb been sacrificed, and amputation been performed immediately after the re- ceipt of the accident, the patient’s life might have been preserved. But no sooner have the symptoms of gan- grene made their awful appearance, than experience for- bids the recourse even to amputation, and the patient is, as it were, out of the reach of surgical aid. Hence arises the absolute necessity of determining primu facie, the pro- priety, or impropriety, of attempting to preserve a limb which has met with a compound fracture. When the appearance of inflammation takes -place (which quickly happens), when there are violent throbbing and pain in the whole limb, the operation is too late, and it w ould only be adding an increase to the patient’s suffering to attempt it, as gangrene of the stump would be inevitable. There are then two grand moments always to be observed, and20S FIRST LINES OF THE profited by, in cases of compound fractures, when the sur- geon has it in his power to decide, -whether it is most ad- visable to try to preserve the limb, or to sacrifice it for the sake of the patient’s life. The one is immediately after the occurrence of the acci- dent, and before an inflammatory and gangrenous tendency in the limb has had time to form. Ihe otliei is atter the subsiding of the first inflamma- tory symptoms consequent to the injury, when the consti- tution seems incapable of bearing any longer the great ir- ritation and immense discharge from the wound, and when hectic fever seems more likely to close the patient’s exist- ence, if a further perseverance in an attempt to save the limb be made, than that the object in view should be ac- complished. The treatment of a compound fracture is similar to that of a simple one, only a more rigorous attention to quietude and diet is necessary on the part of the patient, and a more vigilant care on the part of the surgeon. The limb must, as in the simple fracture, be placed in a relaxed position ; the tracturc, if displaced, must be reduced as speedily as possible; the limb must be laid upon a splint, long enough to keep steady the two nearest joints, and having upon it a soft pad, filled with tow, and an eighteen-tailed bandage. The wound must then be approximated, to give it an op- portunity of reuniting by the first intention, which, when it happens, is a most desirable circumstance, as the fracture is immediately converted into a simple one. When the wound suppurates it must have such dressings as circum- stances require, taking care that at each application of .them the fractare is disturbed as little as possible. Though one might, in cases of compound fracture, ge- nerally be induced to have recourse to phlebotomy to com- bat the local inflammation, it is found by experience, at least in London, to be ultimately prejudicial; it weakensPRACTICE OF SURGE RA . 209 ti,e constitution too ranch; for great powers are required in the system to bear the long and copious discharge ot matter that often ensues. Indeed compound fractures do so much better in the country than in this large metropolis, and patients bear so much better the rigorous employment of antiphlogistic measures, that it is right to attempt the preservation of numerous limbs out of town, which in London would re- quire amputation. CHAP. XL. DISLOCATIONS. T) ’ WHEN the articular surfaces of bones are thrown out of their particular places, the accident is termed a disloca- tion , or luxation. Dislocations are divided, like fractures, into two princi- pal kinds ; viz. simple and compound: simple, when there is no externa} wound communicating with the cavity of the dislocated joint; compound, when the injury is attended with a wound of this description. Luxations have also been distinguished into ancient, and recent; complete, and incomplete. The diagnostic marks of dislocations chiefly consist of circumstances arising from the functions of the affected joint being interrupted; and the lodgment of the articular extremity of a bone in an unnatural situation, and among parts which it compresses and renders painful. Hence there is a loss of motiojj in t he joint; the limb, or part, is either shortened, lengthened, or distorted to one side, ac- cording to the kind of dislocation ; the pressure of the dislocated head of the bone on the surrounding parts causes p2)0 FIRST LINES OF THE considerable pain, which is immensely increased when the surgeon moves the limb in order to examine the case. The head of the dislocated bone may sometimes be distinctly felt, forming a preternatural tumour or projection, while in the situation ot the articular cavity there is an unusual de- pression, or want of fulness in appearance. I he symptoms, however, of particular dislocations are not a proper subject for present consideration. Luxations are produced by external violence, which rup- tures such ligaments as naturally restrain the dislocated heads of the bones from being thrown into the particular directions in which, in various cases, they are found si- tuated. Even tendons proceeding over the surface of the joints are frequently lacerated. f he degree ot danger, in cases of luxations, is very much altered by the circumstance of the case being a sim- ple or a compound one. Simple dislocations, when re- cent, may commonly be reduced with facility/ and they cannot be reckoned at all dangerous cases. Compound dislocations of large joints, on the other hand, are, like compound fractures, frequently attended with danger; and the same nicety of judgment is requisitein determining whether amputation ought to be immediately performed, or an effort made to preserve the limb, as in cases of com- pound fractures. Most, of the remarks contained in the preceding chapter are equally applicable here. The de- gree of violence and laceration done to the soft parts, the great or little chance of healing the wound by the first in- tention, and the youth or advanced age of the patient, are circumstances which ought to influence the judgment in this difficult part of surgery. In the country also many cases would recover, which in town would not do so with- out amputation. The indications, in the treatment of dislocations, are to reduce the displaced articular surface as speedily as possi- ble, and to support the joint with bandages, or splints,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 211 Until the lacerated ligaments, tendons, &c. have had an op- portunity of uniting. . . In cases of compound dislocations it is a most important point to obtain a prompt union of the wound, as the in- jury can afterwards only be regarded as one of a simple kind. The lips of the wound arc, therefore, to be brought accurately together with sticking plaster, and the joint kept perfectly quiet in splints. , In order to reduce dislocations without difficulty, it is necessary to consider what muscles have the power of op- posing your attempt to bring the dislocated head ot the bone into its proper place, and these should be relaxed at the time when the extension is made. The position in which the limb ought to be placed until the ligaments have united, ought to be determined on the same&principies as in cases of fractures. Dislocations, however, when reduced, are* in general, not so trouble- some to keep right as fractures, and are not so easily dis- placed by the action® of muscles. The modes of reducing particular luxations will be no- ticed hereafter. It must be exceedingly bad practice ever to satf off the protruding end of a dislocated bone in compound cases. The bone may always be replaced; and what good the pro- posers of this plan can have in view is difficult ot concep- tion. Old luxations can hardly ever be reduced; for not only the muscles become permanently shortened, and the articu- lar cavity more or less obliterated, but the head ot the dis- located bone acquires adhesions to the parts in its new si- tuation. Though dislocations arc commonly occasioned by ex- ternal force, they arc, now and then, the consequence of disease in the joints. We have already noticed* how a luxation of the thigh bone is caused, in the disease of the hip, by the destruction of the circumference of the accta,*212 first lines of the bulum, and articular ligaments. We do not often see a dislocation, take place in cases of white swellings of the knee, but it does occasionally occur. Mr. Lawrence told me, that he saw last summer a child, whose bones of the leg were drawn upward, considerably towards the tuberosity of the ischium, in consequence of disease in the knee. I lately saw with this gentleman, and Mr. Langstaff, a person afflicted with a diseased knee, whose affected joint could be bent to a very great extent towards each side, and this even when the leg was brought completely for- ward. END OF TIIE FIRST PART. -6( 213 )■ / the first lines OP THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ; V PART II. PARTICULAR SURGICAL SUBJECTS. GHAP. I. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. AVE shall divide this extensive subject into remarks on superficial injuries ; fractures of the cranium; pressure on the brain from extravasation ; pressure on the brain from matter; concussion; phrenitis; the operation ot trepan- ning. SUPERFICIAL INJURIES. Injuries of the scalp are not free from danger, as the inte- guments of the head have some connexion with the parts within the skull by means of vessels. Contusions of the head sometimes occasion abscesses beneath the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle. The matter ought to be evacuated as soon as its existence is ascertained ; and, if possible, the opening should be made in a depending si- tuation. Contusions of the head, in other instances, occasion an extravasation of blood beneath the aponeurosis of the oc- cipito-frontalis muscle. This kind of tumour, when ex- amined by the fingers, communicates a sensation so like214 FIRST FINES OF TIIE that of a fracture, with depression of the cranium, ns may be easily mistaken. Mild purges, and the lotion of vine- gar and sal ammoniac,' commonly very so'on occasion the absorption of the effused blood. Cuts of the integuments of the head, without injury of the skull, are simple wounds, unattended with any pecu- liarity. They admit of direct union, unless it is inter- rupted by some incidental circumstance. Many contused and lacerated wounds of the scalp may also be united. The flaps, angles, and detached portions of these wounds, provided they are connected with the rest of the scalp at some point or another, ought never to be removed, so as to cause an unnecessary exposure of the cranium; they ought to be carefully laid down, and in very many in- stances they will be found to live and unite to the surround- ing part of the scalp. The success of the attempt w ill de- pend, in a great measure, on the degree of contusion that lias been inflicted. I shall only mention, on this subject, one additional case, in which the integuments of the head become affected with an erysipelatous inflammation, in consequence of a wound or bruise. This is particularly common in persons habituated to inebriety, and in bilious subjects. Bleeding, saline purges, and cold saturnine applications, are, in ge- neral, sufficient for the production of a cure. FRACTURES OF THE CRANIUM, When the breach of continuity in the bone is very fine, it is termed a Jissure ; when wide and open it is named a fracture. When the fracture happens in a situation, at some distance from the spot on which the external violence immediately operated, it is denominated a counter Jissure. The skull, at the fractured part, either continues on a level with the rest of the cranium, or it is depressed. Fractures of the cranium, abstractedly considered, are quite destitute of danger and evil consequences* This isPRACTICE OF SURGERY* ?\5 consistent with reason and e*penuncc/"fteoc- ' cranium h^f,^^s Whatever. The alarming currence ot any baa .y 1 , the skull is . • l, mutinies originate w non me s —■»■"■ * not productive itself of any alarnung effects, « unattended with any particular symptoms I s ext tence ean ollly be ascertained by the eye, or the touch . ud therefore its diagnosis is only easy when tu «H “ consequence of a wound. However, a surge,«ed jot be solicitous to find out au undepressed fracture for . symptoms demand the application of the trephine, he is apply it to the bone, whether it is fractured or no.. Bleedings from the nose, mouth, and ears are no signs of a fracture of the.craniura. The only i,.terence from them is that the force applied to the head lias been violent. Bttt even this inference is not a certain one, for some per- sons have hemorrhages of this sort from very slight causes Though a mere breach in the skull itsell is not a source o danger, yet considered as a symptom it is of the highest importance. It shews in the majority of cases, that very considerable violence has been applied ; and, consequently, it excites a well founded apprehension that the parts be- neath have, at the same time, been injured. Such conco- mitant injuries are not the effects of the fracture, but t e direct effects of the same force which produced the breac 1 of continuity in the bone. The surgeon, who considers these injuries as consequences of the fracture, directs his whole attention to the latter, searches for the causes of the bad symptoms beneath it alone, and often is unable to find them there. Although the internal mischief is mostly situated be*216 FIRST LINES OF THE' ncalh »!]crc the external violence has operated with most force that «, beneath lire fraclurc, yet it not „„fe. quenlly lies tn a remote part. The same violence which reaks tile cranium may occasion a concussion of the brain an extravasation of blood beneath the cranium, and a sub- sequent inflammation of the brain and its membranes. Fractures, with considerable depression of the bone are sometimes unattended with alarming symptoms; and, in this circumstance, the application of the trephine is unne- cessary. We shall see from what follows that there can only be one genuine reason for trephining, vis. to remove such pressure from the surface of the brain, as gives rise to existing bad symptoms. The only treatment which a fracture of the skull requires consists in taking- measures to guard against the inflamma- tion of the brain ; a consequence which is sometimes caused by the mechanical irritation of the fracture, but, in most instances, by the same violence which broke the bone itself If we could ascertain that the inequalities, or pressure, of1 t e fracture, caused the bad symptoms, we should be war- ranted in removing the fractured part with a trephine; but all we can rationally do, in common cases, is to bleed tuie patient freely and repeatedly from the temporal ar- tery and the arm, and prescribe saline purgative medicines and a low diet. The antiphlogistic regimen should be continued at least a month; for it is by no means uncom- mon for inflammation of the brain to follow injuries of the hea l, a very considerable time after the patients have had reason to suppose themselves in perfect safety. / PRESSURE ON THE BRAIN FROM EXTRAVASATION. External violence, applied to the head, very frequently occasions a rupture of the spinous, or some other, artery of the dura mater ; and a large quantify of blood becomes effused on the surface of this membrane beneath the cra- Bium.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 217 / , The symptoms of pressure on the brain, whether that pressure be caused by a depressed portion of bone, by blood, or matter, are all of one kind. Mr. Abernethy has thrown more light on this abstruse subject than any other author, and his writings will greatly assist me in this part of the present work- in cases of extravasation of blood, the patient has usu- ally been stunned by a blow, from which state he some- times recovers very soon afterwards, and in other instanees remains senseless. When he regains his senses soon after the first effects of the violence have subsided, and then gradually relapses afterwards into a drowsy condition, and then into a state which I am about to describe, consi- derable light is put upon the case by there having been an interval of sense. That the following symptoms cannot arise from the concussion is proved by the patient having recovered his senses, which he at first lost by being stunned ; that the symptoms cannot be imputed to a depression of any part of the skull is clear, because the patient would have continued senseless frojn the first; that the same symptoms cannot be attributed to matter beneath the skull is certain, because the time would not have been sufficient for (he formation of matter, and there have been no symp- toms of inflammation of the dura mater. Here any re- flecting man must know, that hemorrhage beneath the skull must exist, and as it increased after the accident, that it alone can occasion the perilous symptoms. When the quantity of blood is at first small, drowsiness and head-ach may be the only symptoms. When, how- ever, the pressure on the brain is augmented by the in- creased extravasation, the patient is gradually deprived of all sensibility, as in apoplexy. The eyes are half open ; the pupil dilated and immoveable, even when a candle is brought near the eye ; there is no sickness, which betrays sensibility in the stomach and oesophagus ; the pulse beats regularly and slowly; and respiration is carried on with difficulty, and with a stertorous noise.218 FIRST LINES 01' THE When such symptoms exist, the trephine ought to be applied at that part of the head, where there are traces of external violence. Even when there are no external ap- pearances to determine the place on which the trephine should be applied, it is proper to perform the operation : one perforation might in this circumstance be made in the course of one spinous artery of the dura mater ; if this should not detect the seat of the extravasation, another perforation might be made on the opposite side of the head.* Paralysis is a symptom of pressure on the brain, and when it seems to affect one side of the body more than the other ; when one pupil seems more dilated than the other ; we have great reason to suspect that the extrava- sation is on that side on which there is least paralysis, and least dilatation of the pupil. pressure on the brain from matter. When a considerable collection of matter forms on the surface of the dura mater, it finally produces the same sort of symptoms as have been just described. But, previously to their occurrence, the patient must have betrayed signs of an inflamed dura mater, while, in the situation imme- 4 . . diately over the collection of matter beneath the cranium, the symptoms of pressure from tins cause must have been preceded by a puffy, circumscribed, indolent tumour of the scalp, and a spontaneous separation of the pericranium from the skull under such tumour. If a wound be situated immediately over the part of the cranium, covering the suppuration of the dura mater, the edges lose their vermi- lion hue, and become pale and flabby ; instead of healthy pusathin gleet is discharged, and the pericranium is loosen- ed from the skull, for some extent from the edges of the sore. * Mr. Abernethy has observed, that when blood lies on the dura mater, the bone above it does not bleed when scraped. This is a most valuable remark, if the criterion be found to agree with general expe- rience.f?19 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. This case demands the immediate application of the trephine, in order to give vent to the matter beneath the bone. The antiphlogistic treatment is also proper. CONCUSSION. When the brain is violently shaken, the effect is termed concussion. The patient is at first stunned and in a state of total insensibility; his extremities are frequently cold, his pulse slow and intermitting, and in short he is in a state, which is the immediate result of the violent collision, which the brain has suffered. This is what Mr. Aberncthy has so judiciously called the first stage of concussion. In proportion as the stupefaction, arising directly from the in- jury, goes off (supposing the violence not to exceed a cer- tain degree, for then no signs of returning sensation fol- low) sickness and other symptoms take place, which arc followed by symptoms of inflammation of the brain. 'J'he tendency to phrenitis increases gradually as the first effects of concussion subside. If the patient’s eyelids are now opened he will shut them again in a peevish manner ; the pupil is contracted, and though the patient is regard- less of slight impressions, he is not by any means insensi- ble. There is no stertor attendant on respiration. The treatment of this case consists in taking away very copious quantities of blood repeatedly from the temporal artery and arm, in administering saline purges, and ape- rient clysters, and ordering a low diet. In the first stage ot concussion, when all the animal functions are, as it were, at the lowest ebb, such measures every body will allow are not necessary ; but when the second stage arrives, which is invariably attended with more or less inflammation of the brain, or its membranes, the antiphlogistic t reatment alonfi holds forlh the chance of preservation. Counter-irritation should also be excited on the outside of the head by a blister. It is wonderful what immense quantities ofblooditis necessary to take away in these cases, in order to keep down the symptoms of phrenitis.220 FIRST LINES OF THE PHRENITIS. Inflammation of the brain is a frequent consequence of injuries of the head. There is an increased and disordered i stale of the sensibility of the whole nervous system ; the retina cannot bear the usual stimulus of light ; the pupils are contracted ; the pulse is frequent and small; the eyes are red and turgid, perhaps in consequence of the ophthal- mic artery arising from the internal carotid ; the counte- nance is flushed, and the patient is restless, mutters inco- herently, and grows wild and delirious. Phrenitis is treated on the antiphlogistic plan. Copi- ous bleedings and other evacuations are highly proper. Tire blood should be taken from the temporal arteries. The skin ought to be kept moist with antimonials, and a counter-irritation should be excited on the scalp by blisters. OPERATION OP TREPHINING. / This operation consists in removing a portion of the skull, for the sake of elevating a part of the bone producing dangerous pressure on the brain, or in order to give vent to collections of matter, or blood, which have the same effect. Every part of the cranium cannot be trephined with equal safety. The moderns have discovered, however, that the mere presence of a suture ought not to deter the surgeon from making the perforation in any place, which seems advantageous. We ought not to apply the instru- ment, except where it can take out a complete circle of bone, without injuring the dura mater beneath. I: believe trephining may be performed in any practicable situation, without being deterred by the fear of wounding the longi- tudinal sinus,* or spinous artery of the dura mater. The * Before this vessel reaches the os occipitis. The spinous artery might certainly be wounded, where it lies in a groove, at the anterior inferior angle of tire parietal bone ; but a small plug of lint would un- doubtedly stop the hemorrhage.221 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. longitudinal sinus Las often been purposely punctured, and the bleeding never proved troublesome. You cannot safely apply the trephine lower down in front than half an inch above the superciliary ridge of the os frontis, nor over the frontal sinuses. If requisite the trephine may be ap- plied to the squamous portion of the temporal bone ; for -wounds of the temporal muscles are now not so much dreaded as they were by our prejudiced ancestors. There are only two small spaces on each side of the groove for the longitudinal sinus, which can he safely trephined in the occipital bone, and here it would be advisable to use a small trephine. When the bone is already sufficiently exposed by a wound, the operation may commence at once ; but other- wise, it is first requisite to make room for the application of the trephine by making an incision of a crucial form, or shaped like the letters T or V. None of the scalp should ever be removed, as it is quite unnecessary, and might oc- casion afterwards serious deformity. The incision should be made down to the bone at once ; but in the case of large fractures, attended with great sepa- ration of the broken edges, or with loose pieces, the danger of pressingtoo hard w ith the scalping knife is obvious. Mr. Pott informs us, that a suture, or the impression of a vessel on the surface of the bone, may be discriminated from a fracture or fissure, by the undetached state of the pericranium. This membrane is always found loose and detached from the track of a fracture ; besides which, the edges of a fracture are always found rough to the probe, or finger. The natural situation of the sutures is also a source of information to a surgeon, who is not deficient in anatomical knowledge. It would be dangerous to apply the crown of the tre- phine on depressed portions of the skull. The perfora- tion is always to be made on that side of the fraci ure at which the elevator may be most conveniently ..introduced223 FIRST LINES OF T&E beneath the depressed bone for the purpose of raising ifj attention being paid to anatomical objections to trephining particular situations. In cases of extravasation, the per- foration ought to be made at the place •where there are traces of violence done to the scalp, for in most instances the blood will be found beneath this situation. When the scalp has been divided, and loose splinters of the cranium are found lying underneath, they ought to be taken away with the forceps or linger ; they can only be regarded as extraneous bodies, and their own continuance may be productive of considerable irritation. The de- pressed pieces of the skull causing the bad symptoms, are sometimes completely detached from the rest of the cra- nium, and maybe taken away in the same manner. In every instance of fracture with depression, unat- tended with any motives for supposing that part of the pressure on the brain arises from extravasation, provided such depressed fracture can be raised with a pair of for- ceps, or an elevator, without applying the trephine, the latter operation may be dispensed with. It is customary to scrape the pericranium from the part of the bone on which the crown of the trephine is to be placed. Iu order to fix the centre pin of the trephine, surgeons make a small hole in the external table ofihe skull with an instrument named a perforator. The crown of the,trephine is to be turned alternately iiTone direction, and then in the other by the pronation and supination of the surgeon’s hand. As soon as the teeth of the instrument have made a circular groove, sufficiently deep for fixing the trephine,the centre-pin is to be taken out, lest it should injure the dura mater before the. internal table of thecranium is perforated. At first the operation may proceed with briskness, as the surgeon cannot possibly do mischief; and every now and then the t rephine is to be taken out of the circular groove, that the bone-dust may be brushed from the teeth of. (lie instrument.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 223 When the sawing is more advanced the surgeon must proceed with greater caution, and examine frequently with the point of a quill, whether any part of the circle is nearly or completely sawn through. When this is the case, the pressure of the instrument is to be inclined to the parts which are not sufficiently perforated. It is al- ways better to use a little force in raising the circle of bone with tire elevator, than to run any risk of injuring the dura mater and brain, by sawing too deeply. in some cases the surgeon clearly perceives, when the saw has penetrated the dipipe, by the sensation which the instrument communicates to his iingers, in consequence of entering a soft substance, immediately after having divid- ed the hard texture of the outer table, and by the blood which then appears in the circular groove, and on the teeth of the saw. 'flic operator, however, is not warranted in sawing too boldly until some criterion of this sort takes place; for in many skulls, and in different parts of (he same skull, tliediploe is very thin, and in old persons it is sometimes quite obliterated. When the surgeon knows with certainty that he lias arrived at tin* diploe, the rest of the saw ing should be ac- complished with slowness a id circumspection. After having removed the circle of bone, if the lower edges of the perforation next the dura mater arc splintered, they may lie made smooth by means of an instrument, called a lenticular. When the whole track of the depression cannot be raised, or the whole quantity of blood or matter cannot be evacuated, by making one perforation, 1 lie trephine must be applied again ; and indeed as often as the circumstances of each particular case demand. The mere removal of a portion of the skull cannot be regarded as very danger- ous, compared with the peril which would result from not completely effecting the object of the operation, viz. to re- move the pressure from the surface of the brain. She pain224 first Lines of the of the operation is here no objection ; for the majority of patients, on -whom it ought to be practised, are almost destitute of sensation. When the operation is finished the scalp is to be laid down in its natural position, and dressed very lightly with a pledget of any simple, unirritating ointment. Mr. Hey very seldom uses the trephine, or trepan, but a saw made of the forms represented in the annexed plate.* With the convex one you can saw in a curvi- lineal direction. There are certainly numerous cases, in which.it is unnecessary to remove a whole circle of the cranium, for the purpose of raising a depression ; for in- stance, if the fracture were shaped like the letter V, and beaten inward, by making a division across its base, the depressed portion might easily be taken away. Mr. Hey’s saws are also highly useful in cases of diseased bones; for no instrument is so well calculated for the removal of large portions of dead bone, which are wedged in the substance of that which is living. CHAP. II. I HERNIA CEREBRI. When a portion of the brain, together with its mem- branes, protrudes through a preternatural opening in the cranium, the disease, is named hernia cer'ebri. The case sometimes occurs in young children before the ossification of the cranium is completed, and then the tu- mour is covered by the common integuments of the head. The nature of this instance is, however, very different * Plate 3.e //«? bt- R /.4PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ^ from the hernia cerebri, commonly following the operation of the trephine. 4 . This case, which is the most frequently met with, is a tumour which usually takes place a few days after the operation. It protrudes through an ulcerated opening ot the dura mater, and very soon attains the magnitude of a pigeon’s, or hen's egg. Frequent hemorrhages occur as it enlarges, and its surface is commonly darkened with co- agulated blood. In a few cases it is not attended with loss of the mental faculties, though, in most instances, we find that there are coma, insensibility, and other marks of pressure on the brain. # Mr. Abernethy’s observations have tended to explain the nature of this singular malady. It seems to proceed from an injury done to a part of the brain at some distance from its surface, which injury produces a diseased stale of the vessels similar to what occurs in apoplexy. 1 he mor bid state increasing, one or more vessels give way, and an effusion of blood into the substance of the brain follows. This occurrence, if the skull were entire, would probably occasion apoplexy ; but when there is a deficiency of bone, that allows the brain to expand, this viscus and its membranes protrude through the aperture. The dura mater soon ulcerates, and the tumour rapidly increases, in proportion as the internal hemorrhage goes on. At last the pia mater, and stratum ot the brain, covering the effused blood, give way, and the blood oozes out, and I coagulates.* The proper line of surgical conduct, in these cases, is hardly yet determined. Mr. Hill successfully pared ofl the tumour with a knife, in several instances : and patients have been known to tear off the whole tumour, without any particular ill consequences ensuing. AV e should not expect these facts d priori, and considering the history of * M r. C. Bell considers this disease as an organized iungous growth. /FIRST LINES OF TI1E 216 the disease. If the hernia cerebri were free from urgent, symptoms, perhaps the surgeon acts rightly who interferes Mith it as little as possible. The patient ought certainly to be-very freely bled/just as if the case were an apo- plexy. If there were urgent symptoms of great pressure on the brain, the surgeon would be warranted to -remove the surface ol the tumour, and endeavour to expose the in- ternal bleeding vessels, to try to put a stop to mischief, which, if left to itself, would certainly soon prove fatal. Unfortunately these are generally complicated cases, the pia mater and brain being frequently at the same time in- llamed, and in a morbid state. CHAP.'III. TINEA CAPITIS. THIS disease consists of cutaneous ulcers, which affect the scalp, and are concealed beneath thick, dry,whitish,yel- lowish, or greenish scabs. When these are removed, a thin * discharge ofa very peculiar fetor is effused ; and the surface of the cutis underneath has a red, excoriated appearance. From being at first of small extent, the disease is apt to spread in such a degree, that it not unfrequently occupies not only the whole of the scalp, but also some of the sur- face of the adjacent parts. Sometimes the complaint arises without any evident cause ; and sometimes it is com- municated from one person to another by contact. No age is exempt from its attack ; it is often very obstinate, and very apt to recur repeatedly. Uficleanliness seems particularly conducive to the disease; and hence poor persons are more frequently affected than the higher classes. TREATMENT. To loosen and remove the scabs; to keep the sores clean, and covered witli proper applications; to have the lpractice of scegerv. affected part of the sain d, , ~37 iterative medicines; are tie cW°r ^ Suifab!« Ja ^le ^ealnicnt. °Jjects fo be observed he hair bein'? cniWnli Wi"‘ 4 fc So as to fadh w ’ r1- "l0 “*'* rubbcd “llp sl,ouI<l ««l te well washed will, SC‘para,io"s Ik# ■ » “‘"-'I- TI,o JMrt affoc(ct, is '"«* c°™°" soap, and veredovitb an ointment, fo * ^ to be d™l, and co- pkur in equal proportions Tile f ' V’T ° P‘tcli a»<J Sul. <h« “»™r, h ^^leartonceeviyrtwlS: ^ ^ '“***><* —» (0 ban lion composed of a pi„l „f «t, ora I„. 16 /'“4 •mlP/<>m,tum, may be Lv ' 7 a"d '"° drams of decoction of tobacco is ^ ^geonsl^ tried. A ” obstinate cases alone internal r grC‘U Kp"le- “V* ** - an altotSed'Cr *•**. ,,’ thc «•"* quantity of ’ /T mnS “ ffrain "f ; .cc;;o^n,s „fresi„ „rsuaiaciim. CHAP. iv. i.NAbis WOONDS OF the fjcb, *^^**%i !° no“ce a few Peculiarly cm,"p"“ms''i! ^ Ph“ in "k^dcfornA, is 'cnt"» formal,, £** “ f»‘ Point alwnj, to> b>- mdWour ,o^Z,XoftTCFIRST LINES OF THE 228 Wounds of the eyebrows sometimes cause a species of blindness, named the gutta serena. This consequence is commonly thought to be owing to an injury of the nervous filament, which comes out of the orbit, at the notch in the superciliary ridge. It is very probable, however, that the affection of the eye is not altogether dependent on the in- jury of this nerve ; for the blindness very often occurs when the cut is not situated near the track of the nerve, and frequently does not occur when (he nerve is known to be divided. It is when the wound is nearly, or quite heal- ed, that the event is most likely to happen. When a wound, in any part of the face, cannot be pro- perly brought together by means of sticking plaster, the twisted suture, employed for the cure of the hare-lip, is generally made use of. As the parotid duct passes beneath the integuments of the cheek, over the masseter muscle, it is much exposed to wounds, which, it not properly treated, end in what are termed salivary fistulae. This is the subject of the ensuing chapter. CHAP. V. , • SALIVARY FISTULA. r A SALIVARY fistula is an opening on the cheek, from which saliva escapes, when the patient masticates or con- verses. At this time the saliva flows out so copiously, that it wets the patient’s clothes. During a meal, two ounces of saliva have been known to escape, in the short space of a quarter of an hour. The great loss, every day, of a fluid so serviceable in digestion, is apt to occasion a loss of ap- petite, indigestion, weakness, and emaciation; and thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. constant dribbling of the saliva over the adjacent parts is, at least a very vexatious annoyance. A wound, or abscess, penetrating either the paro ..land or duct, is the cause of the malady. In the firs case, the fistulous opening is close to the ear; m the second it is situated on tlie cheek. When the parotid duct is recently wounded, an attemp mrv rationally be made to unite the » ound by the first m- tention^in the expectation that one end of the duct rtself may, at the same time, coalesce with the other. Butw en the wound has existed a good while, the latter hope would be vain; for the part of the parotid duct, on the side oi the wound most remote from the gland, soon contracts, and becomes obliterated, when the saliva ceases to flow through it in the usual manner. The plan next most commonly pursued, is to apply a graduated compress to the fistulous aperture. In this manner fistula of the parotid gland itself may generally be very expeditiously cured. But where the fistula pro* ceeds from the duct, the method is seldom proper; for the pressure prevents the excretion of the saliva, when it is se- creted, so that its accumulation gives rise to a painful and cedemalous enlargement of the gland, extending a consi- derable way down the neck. Thus it becomes necessary to remove the compress. Pressure does, however, sometimes succeed. The application of caustic to the fistulous aperture is another means. This is practised with a view of produ- cing an eschar sufficient to close Ihe opening, and prevent the issue of the saliva. To make the slough continue un- detached long enough for the fistula to heal underneath, it is recommended to bathe it frequently with brandy, or strong astringents. This plan cannot succeed unless the outward aperture be very small, and the saliva have some other fistulous channel for escaping into the mouth. Efforts haye been made to re-establish the obliteratedFIRST LINES OF THE 230 part of the duct, by passing a probe from tile fistulous aperture through it, and keeping it open by a seton, intro- duced m-this manner into the month. A degree of success has Certainly attended this method. It is obvious, however, that there is no occasion to re- establish the obliterated part of the duct; and it is not so easdy accomplished as making a new and more direct channel for the saliva into the mouth. This plan is also attended with greater success. The perforation is best made by.means of a very small trocar ; and the puncture should be made so close to the end of the fistula, as to be, as it were, a continuation of it. By following this mode the saliva more easily finds its way into the mouth. The wound is to be prevented from healing by a seton, which is to be worn a reasonable time. When the seton is removed, the next object is to heal the external fistulous opening. When small, applying the argentum nitratum. will make it heal; when large, at- tempts should be made to approximate its edges with sticking plaster. If the plan, just described, should not answer, it. is re- commended to introduce, with the trocar, a small carTula, ■which is to be left in the cheek, while attempts are made to heal tlie external opening, During the treatment of these cases, it is necessary to make the patient refrain, as much as possible, from masti- cating, or talking. CHAP. VI. H ARE LIP. THIS is, for the most part, an original malformation flora the time of birth. In a few instances it is the conse- quence of a wound. It is mostly met with in the upperI I PRACTICE OF {SURGERT. lip, and very seldom in the loner onc.^ *wtet T'1'' ™ '^stance b hm'f a"d stance, tnc imervem opCTtfon ;■ but if nar- long, it is best >• H' - ' , ^ J„ some cases the vow ami short, '1 — the milW|e of the lip ; in fissure only extends a, „ one of t]ie n0s- others it reaches to the nose, an. c ■ - ‘ trih. In the latter circnmstance the nos.nl « much expanded, and much wider than its the fissure in the Up, -here is frequently - ^ ‘ “ the upper jaw and palate bones, “ Sm;,ctimes there is a fissure in the soft palate; though lor the most part, this is perfect. In some cases the jav. >■>■'<-, > i(‘c.t into the cleft in the lip* . , » ' This case is not only a great deformity, but »«U«^ with a defect in the speech ; and when 1 u -s u.e along die palate, with an impediment to the power ol suck- ing ami swallowing* . , . , . The hare lip is cured by an operation, in wh <.h the sureron pares off the margin of the lissure, brings i< «>, cutanrfaces into contact, and keeps them ... this position until they have grown together by the first intention. As infant* are very subject to convulsions alter open- lions, modern surgeons seldom undertake the cure till a child is 'about two years of 'age. In the operation, the object is to make the wind ns smooth and even a cut as possible, in order that it may more certainly unite by adhesion, and of such a shape that the cicatrix may form only one narrow line. I he may . „f the fissure ought never to bo cut off with seissars, as these instruments always bruise the fibres, which they divide. Thcbest plan is, cither to place any flat instrument, like the spatula, underneath the lip, and then cut away toe edge of the fissure with a sharp bistoiuy ; or o 10 ( i lip with a pair of forceps, in such a in,mm i, that as .inn232 FIRST LINES OF THE of the edge of (he fissure as is to be removed, is siluafcrl onones.de of the blades of the instrument, so that it eon be cut off wall one sweep of the knife. This is to be done on each side of the cleft, and the two incisions are to meet nt an angle above, thus in order that the whole track is wound may be brought together, and united by (ho first intention. . \'e hps/lre so very moveable, and it is so very de- grade in this case to heal the wound by adhesion, that a particular process is always pursued to keep the lips of the vound in contact. Two silver pins, made with steel points, are introduced through the edges of the wound; and a piece of thread is then repeatedly wound round the ends of the pins from one side of the division to the other, first transversely, then obliquely, from the right or left end of one pin above, to the end of the lower on the opposite side, &c. 1 hus the thread is made to cross as many points of the wound as possible, and greatly contributes to main- tain Fs edges in even apposition. It is obvious, that a great deal of exactness is requisite in introducing the pins, m order that the edges of the incision may afterwards be precisely applied to each other in the proper manner. The pins ought never to extend deeper than about two- thirds through the substance of the lip. It would be a gieat improvement always to have them constructed a little curved. This is what is named (he twisted suture. The pms may usually be removed in about four days, the sup- port of sticking plaster being afterwards quite sufficient,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 233 CHAP. VII. CANCEROUS DISEASES OF THE LIP. WHAT is commonly called a cancer in tlic lip, is met with in various'forms : sometimes it has the appearance of an ulcerated, wart-like, excrescence, which occasionally becomes as large as an apple ; sometimes it is seen in the form of a very destructive ulcer, which consumes the sur- rounding substance of the lip ; and in other examples the disease resembles a hard lump, which at length ulcerates. The disease in its infancy is often no more than a pimple, which gradually becomes malignant. All obstinate hardnesses and ill-conditioned ulcers on the lips, are not always cancerous ; many may be cured by the remedies mentioned in the chapter on cancer. A course of emetic and purgative medicines has sometimes accom- plished a cure. Black hellebore, internally administered, is said to be particularly efficacious in many instances. Very foul ulcers on the lips arc occasionally quite depend- ent on the projection of a sharp, rough tooth against the parts. The under lip is commonly the scat of cancer, the upper one being but seldom affected. Whenever there is reason to believe that the disease is of an unyielding cancerous nature, the sooner it is extirpated the better. For this purpose some surgeons admit the pro*, priety of using caustic, when the whole disease can be completely destroyed by one application. But as the ac- tion of caustic is not capable of being regulated with so much precision, as the extent of a wound can be, the knife is generally preferable: it is also the least painful. The operation should be done as tor the hare lip, making the wound of such a shape as will allow its edges to befirst LINES of the 234 evenly united by adhesion, and taking care to extirpate , cverY P°rtion of the morbid part. When the affection is extensive, the surgeon is, however, frequently necessitated to remove the whole of the lip; a very unpleasant occur- rence, as the patient’s saliva can only be prevented from continually running over his chin by some artificial, me- chanical, contrivance, while the deformity is very great; and swallowing, and the pronunciation of words, can only be im perfect ly per fori n ed. CHAP. VIII. DISEASES OF TIIE ANTRUM. ‘ * i t UL antrum is the seat of various diseases. Its mem- branous- lining may inflame and ulcerate; polypi, and other fleshy excrescences, may grow in it; the mucous se- cretion of the membrane may be of bad qualify ; anil the opening, through which tlie mucus naturally passes into the nose, may be closed. The bony parietes of this ca- vity may be carious, or may form osseous funguses. » / i / INFLAMMATION AND sui>5>u ration in the antrum. The first*symptoms are difficultly understood. There is a darting pain in the side of the face, extending from the teeth to the orbit, and unattended with any external swell- ing. The pain and tenderness do not affect the integu- ments, which may be 'handled without inconvenience to the patient. This state of the disorder is not attended with much fever, and is usually regarded as a tooth-ach. In some instances matter flows into the nose; and its being discharged from one of the nostrils, excites a suspi- cion of the nature of the case. But many patients do not distinguish the pus from the usual mucous evacuation;235 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. and frequently, in consequence of the communication be- tween the nose and antrum being closed, there is no puru- lent discharge whatever. The disease, when more advanced, becomes more ob- vious. The whole antrum now expands, and its parietes become extenuated by absorption, the expansion of the bone towards the nose may produce a complete obstruction of the nostril, or ils swelling above may raise the floor of the orbit, and push the eye out ol its situation. l»ut the greatest degree of expansion commonly takes place to- wards the surface of lire body, for all collections of matter have a natural tendency to burst externally. At. length the abscess makes its way through the bony parietes of the antrum, and continues to be discharged through ulcerated openings. In some instances the matter finds a passage into the mouth, through one of the sockcls for the teeth. The most common cause of suppuration in the antrum, is a caries of one or more of the upper grinding teeth. The general causes, however, capable ol exciting local in- flammation in any situation, may also have the same effect in the present one. An obstruction of the opening, through which themucus flows-from the antrum into the nose, may create such an accumulation of this secretion as shall occa- sion suppuration. The indications in the cure arc chiefly two, viz. to pro- cure a vent for the matter confined in the antrum as spee- dily as possible; and to check the suppuration, and pro- mote the separation of any exfoliations which are taking place. When there is any carious tooth below the antrum, the surgeon should always extract it; for thus he not only re- moves a source of great irritation, but frequently makes at once a depending opening into the antrum. When the fang of the tooth does not extend quite into this cavity, the perforation must be completed with a sharp gimlet. If236 FIRST LINES OF THE all the leeth aic sound, the third or fourth grinder is to be selected. Theie are cases in which fleshy, or bony funguses, or de- tached portions of dead bone, are situated in the antrum, and in which it is requisite to make a larger opening into this cavity, than can be obtained at its lower part. In- stances also occur in which the patients have lost the grind- ing teeth, and the sockets are quite obliterated, so that a perforation from below could hardly be effected. In such Circumstances an opening may be made into the antrum with a small trephine, through the malar process of the su- perior maxillary bone. The detachment of carious portions of bone is altoge- ther the work of nature : the only way in which the sur- geon can be useful, being’ to extract, through proper inci- sions, such exfoliations as are already loose. The fistulous Sinuses generally require dilating, to allow the pieces of bone to be taken away. If there be no caries, the ulcera- tions generally heal spontaneously, when the matter in the antrum lias a depending opening, through which it can escape. / • ' FUNGUSES OF THE ANTRUM. The worst diseases to which the antrum is liable are fun- gous, and other, tumours growing in its cavity, and pro- ducing first an enlargement, and then a destruction of its bony parietes. These frequently cause all the neighbour- ing teeth to fall out, and the eye to be displaced from its socket. The excrescence makes its way through (he al- veolary processes into the mouth, and, by expanding the bones, renders the adjacent nostril quite obstructed.' At last the excrescence makes its way through the cheek, and assumes a very frightful aspect. The pro per mode of treating this case is to trephine the antrum as soon as the existence of the disease is known; and to make such a free opening into the cavity, that everyPRACTICE OF SURGERY. C37 atom of the fungus can be conveniently cut out. It is an unfortunate truth, however, that this terrible disease has generally advanced too far to be cured before its existence is ascertained; the fungus grows again, and the extension of the surrounding mischief goes on, until it proves fatal. Tumours growing from the antrum are sometimes of a bony nature. / fii1 CHAP. IX. NOLI ME TANGERE. THIS term is applied to a species of herpes, which Ts frequently seen making its attack on the skin of the nose. The disease consists of small, superficial ulcerations, which usually commence on the alee ol the part, and are, more or less, concealed beneath furfuraccous scabs. The com- plaint is connected with specific morbid action in the part affected , and the matter secreted seems to have the power of infecting the adjoining skin, to which it is applied. Hence the noli me tangere often proves exceedingly obsti- nate, spreading on one side, healing on another, and then breaking out again in places where, at one time, the com- plaint seemed to have entirely ceased. I have repeatedly seen nearly the whole nose gradually destroyed by this frequently intractable malady. 1 have several times seen the morbid process suspended for six months, or eve^a year, and then renew its ravages with in- creased vehemence. Such authors as have attempted to explain the causes of this species of herpes, have only displayed their own cre- dulity, without throwing the least light on the subject. TREATMENT. In these cases it is generally useful to employ internal alterative medicines- as well as topical applications.338 FIRST LINES OF TIIE H will only be possible to notice in this work a few me- dicines, which seem to deserve a trial, in preference to many others. The solution of arsenic may be taken internally, in the way mentioned in the chapter on ulcers. Arsenic may also be safely exhibited in the following formula : R, Kali arsenicati, gr. ij. An. menth. sativ. Jjiv. Spir. vin. ten. fj.—Miscc et cola. Dosis 3 ij ter quotidie. Jn other instances we may exhibit twice a day a pill, containing a grain of calomel, a grain of the sulphur an- thii. pro: dp., and two grains ot the resin of gum guaia- cum. Sometimes the decoction of sarsaparilla, and a pill composed of three or four grains of the succus cicutos spis- solus, and a grain of calomel, given thrice a day, liave ap- parently produced very good eifoefs. iEthiops mineral is alscrsometimes useful. With respect to external applica- tions, tiie ung. hj/drarg. uilr., the ung. picis, nml ung. snip fun i$) ii esc! ve to be mentioned. There is some incon- venience in applying fluid remedies to the outside of the nose; b.ip, 1 believe, they are generally more beneficial in cases of noli me laugere, than any other application. The , solution of lunar caustic Oj to *fs. of water) may be ap- ■ plied by dipping very small, soft pieces of lint in it, pla- cing them accmately on the little ulcerations by means of a probe; and then covering (he nose w ith a pledget of the wig. sperm, cel., or, if judged necessary, one of the oint- ments above enumerated. The solution of arsenic, men- tioned in the chapter on ulcers, may be used in the same maimer. In some instances it answers better to touch the little sores with the lunar caustic itself, before covering them with a dressing. The scabs slipukl be, every now and then, softened with the ung. sperm, cet., and removed with as little irritation as possible.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 239 CHAP. X. FISTULA L ACITIiYM A LIS. * WULNEVLR the tears cannot pass freely Yirough the ductus nhsalis into the nose, the lachrymal sac becomes distended, so as to form a preternatural tumour, situated just on one side of the root, of the nose, below the internal angle of the eye. The contents of the sac, however, are hot merely the tears, but also the mucus, which the sac it- self naturally secretes. In consequence of this state, the tears cannot freely enter the puncta lachrjjmdia; and, every now and then, a drop of this secretion falls from the corner of the eye down the cheek. On compressing the space between the eye and nose, the tumour is, ior a time, diminished, in consequence of its' contents regurgitating through the punctu laclir i/m alia ; and also, in some mea- sure (when the obstruction in the nasal duct is slight), by reason of their passing downward into tue nose. This is the first stage oi the disease, absurdly named the fistula lachrjjmalis. The second stage is, when-ulceration has formed an ex- ternal aperture in the lachrymal sac, which ulcerated open- ing is prevented from healing by the contents ot the sac Continually oozing through it. This state ot the disease . r-J- * * Lachrymal parts of the eye. Plate IV. fig. i. u. b. The lachrymal sac. c. The.tendon of the Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. d. Puuctui^ lachrymale supetius. e. PUnctum lachrymale iiiferius. f. Caruucula lachrymalis. jj. Portion of the orbicular muscle reflected from the surface of the lachrymal sac.FIRST LINES OF THE 240 sometimes induces a carious affection of the os unguis, and thus the malady becomes more complicated. I utmost in- stances the neighbouring eye is more tender than in the healthy state, and in some it is always more or less in- flamed. Professor Scarpa asserts, that the chief part of the-yellow viscid matter, which accumulates in the lachrymal sac, is secreted by the lining of the eyelids, and by the little glands of Meibomius, and that the altered quality of this secretion has a principal share in the cause of the disease. He states, that the truth of this fact may at once be ascer- tained by everting the eyelids, and especially the lower one of the affected side, and by comparing them with those of the opposite eye. I lie former will constantly exhibit an unnatural redness of the internal membrane, which appears villous along the whole extent of the tarsus, while the edges are swollen, and numerous varicose vessels are dis- tributed on its surface. The follicles of Meibomius are also turgid and prominent. TREATMENT. d he first stage of the fistula lachrymalis, sometimes named the epiphora, and by Scarpa called the purulent palpebral discharge, may frequently be cured by very simple means. I shall not enter into the question, whe- ther the morbid state of the Meibomian glands, and of the internal membrane of (he eyelids, is the cause, or only an effect, of the obstruction in the ductus nasalis; I think the discussion of this point quite superfluous ; for whether it is one, or the other, it is proper to follow the same prac- tice, namely, to make such applications to the inside of the eyelids as have a tendency to improve the quality of the secretion from them, and to endeavour to restore the free passage of the fears into the nose. W hile the lachrymal sac is entire, that is, while the disease is not in an advanced state, the most judicious241 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. plan which the practitioner can possibly follow, is to in- ject warm water into the lachrymal sac, through the lower punctum lachrymale, by means of Anel’s syringe. This is done with a view of mechanically washing away any thickened mucus, or other matter, which may obstruct the ductus nasalis. The fluid should be injected so as to make it pass, if possible, with some velocity into the nose. Some practitioners inject quicksilver by means of the tube, com- monly used by anatomists for injecting the lymphatics ; but Mr. Ware’s preference to the syringe is, I believe, per- fectly just. The lachrymal sac, and ductus nasalis, should be washed in this manner at least once every day. At'the same time the patient should employ a colhjrium, composed of five grains of zincum vitriol, dissolved in lour ounces of aq. vos. ; or he should introduce, every morning and evening, between the palpebne and eyeball, a small quantity of the ttng. hjjdrurg. nitrat. lowered ; or ot an ointment, consisting of half an ounce of liog’s lard, two drams of bole armcnic, the same quantity ot prepared tutty, and one dram of white precipitate. This is Janin’s famous ophthalmic ointment, and it must be used, at first, blended with twice or thrice its quantity of lard. These applications to the inner surface of the eyelids operate very beneficially on the disease, by correcting the morbid secretion transmitted into the lachrymal sac. Perseverance in this kind of treatment, for two or three weeks, will often effect a complete cure ; and Scarpa’s practice, whatever we may think ot his theory, is un- doubtedly commendable. When the above measures have not the desired effect, or when there is already an ulcerated aperture in the sac, Mr. Ware’s method is to be put in practice. A small puncture is to be made into the sac, if it has no external opening, or if this should be unfavourably situated. A very spear-shaped lancet is the best instrument for the pur. pose. Then a silver probe, somewhat smaller in size than RI f > , ✓ 242 FIRST LINES OF THE ■\yliat is commonly contained in an ordinary pocket case of surgical instruments, is to be introduced through the small puncture into the lachrymal sac, and then through the ‘ductus nasalis into the nose, so as to clear away all mecha- nical obstructions, and restore the pervious state of thena- tural channel for the tears. The ductus nasalis is to be kept from closing again by a silver style (plate 4, figs. 2 and o.) ot about the same diameter as the probe, and form- ed with a flat head, like thajtofa nail, only placed oblique- ly, in order that when the instrument is placed in the duct, the top may lie in close contact with the skin cover- ing the sac. I he style for an adult should be about an inch and a quarter, or an inch and three eighths in length. When it is judged necessary to make a small perforation in the os unguis, with a view of forming an entirely new passage from the sac into the nose, the style is also to be worn as in the preceding case. If the lining of the eye- lids be in a morbid state, Scarpa’s applications are also to be used. The style produces such little inconvenience (and one might say no deformity, as its head being blackened lias the appearance.of a small piece of court plaster) that patients are generally very careless about relinquishing its em- ployment. The only thing necessary to be observed is, to withdraw the style'two or three times a week, and in- ject warm water through the external opening down into the nose. At the end of six weeks the instrument may commonly be left off, and the aperture allowed to heal. When the os unguis is carious, it may in some instances be proper to make a larger opening into the sac, in order to endeavour to cut away any tedious exfoliations. But now that the practice of cramming the sac with tents, escha- rotics, &c. has given place to the mild methods above ex- plained, caries is found to be much more seldom in its occurrence. 'T he troublesome ulcerations, sometimes attendant onr 2 jhstula lias alls probe, vented tion of PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ~43 lachrjinalis, commonly heal soon after the ductus is rendered pervious' by the introduction of the In a few examples this desirable event is pre- by some constitutional causes, which the exhibi- bark, and the sublimate, generally removes. CHAP. XI. DISEASES OF TIIE EYELIDS. INFLAMMATION OF TIIE EYELIDS, OR PSOROPHTHALM UN the purulent ophthalmy a thick viscid kind of pus is always found on the edges of the eyelids, gluing them together. The glands of Mcibomius are probably the chiei source of this discharge. The inflammation generally affects only the edges of the eyelids ; but sometimes it ex- tends to every part of them, and even to the cheek, where it creates an erysipelatous swelling. The inner edges of the palpebrce are often ulcerated. This complaint of the eyelids may commonly be cured by smearing the edges of the palpebrce with the unguent. hydrarg. nitrat. by means of a hair pencil. This is to be done once or twice a day. In the morning, when the eye- lids are adherent to each otl^er, they must not be forcibly opened, but carefully separated, after being bathed with warm milk, and rubbed with fresh butter. lippitudo. A chronic inflammation of the lining, and particularly of the edges of the eyelids, is termed lippitudo. rIhe eye seems to be surrounded with a red circle, and the palpe-~i4 , FIRST LINES OF THE brcc cannot be easily opened in the morning, owing to a morbid secretion of glutinous matter. The most successful treatment is to wash the eye fre- quently in the day time with a .vitriolic collyrium, and to melt a little of the unguent, hydrarg. nit. in a spoon, and smear it over the inner surface and edges of the eyelids every night, just before the patient goes to bed. This can be best done with a hair pencil. In many instances the complaint is very obstinate, and requires the internal exhibition of alterative medicines. PURULENT EYES OF INFANTS. In new-born children a peculiar inflammation of the eye- lids is sometimes seen ; they become red and swolltm,*and a yellow, thick, purulent matter is discharged, which sometimes covers the whole front of the eye-ball. When the child cries, or any attempt is made to inspect its eye, the eyelids become everted. As it often happens that the eyelids cannot be opened, the matter is apt to accumulate underneath them, and excite inflammation, abscesses, and opacities of the eye itself. This case is relieved by a camphorated lotion made ac- cording to the following formula : & Cupri vitriol. Bol. armen. a a giv. Camphor, ^j. M. F. pulvis, de quo projice Jj in aqua: bullientis Jbiv. remove ab igne et subsideant feces. % One dram of this remedy is to be mixed with an ounce of cold clear water. The application may be diluted, or strengthened if requisite. The best mode of applying it to the inside of the eyelids is with a syringe, and, in vio- lent cases, this should be done oneeor twice every hour. Mr. Ware also recommends the eyelids to be covered with a poultice made of the curds of milk, coagulated with alum, and an equal part of unguent. sambuci. or axungia porcini.* Plate 4. tig. 4. t PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 245 CONCRETIONS OF THE EYELIDS. Of this disease there are two kinds ; one, in which the inner lining of one or both eyelids has become adherent to the eyeball; the other, in which the two eyelids have ad- hered together at their edges, to a greater or less extent. This complaint is sometimes an original malformation ; but it is most frequently produced after birth by violent ophthalmies, burns, &c. When the edges of the eyelids have grown together, the preternatural connexion is to be divided with a bistoury, taking care not to wound the eye- bal. The cut surfaces are then to be kept asunder by the interposition of a suitable piece of lint, until they have healed. When the edges of the eyelids have grown toge- ther-m>m the outer to the inner canthus of the eye, it is of no use to separate them, when the cornea underneath is known to be perfectly opaque. Only in cases, where the adhesions betiveen <he eyelids and eyeball are loose, limited to a small extent, and not situated over the cornea, is it very practicable to do good by dividing them with a knife. Even in such instances it is frequently very difficult to prevent the adhesions forming again. The irritation of substances, interposed between the cut surfaces, is generally so great, that the surgeon is obliged to withdraw them. The only plan, which can then be followed, is to make the patient move his eyelids about, and to smear the cut surfaces every now and then with a little of the unguent , satumirmm by means of a hair pencil. ectropium. This disease for the most part affects the lower eyelid, which becomes everted towards the cheek, and does not apply itself to the eyeball.* Thus the inner lining of the palpcbra is turned outward, and the lower portion of theFIRST LINES OF THE 246 * Plate 4, fig. 5. eyeball is uncovered. The consequence is, that the ex- posure of the eye and sensible lining of the eyeball induces in these parts a species of chronic inflammation, not only attended with a constant flux of tears and pain, but also with a preternatural redness and thicken in a; of the lining: of the everted eyelid. The exposed membrane is at length converted into an indurated, callous substance, which lies just under the globe of the eye. It is obvious, how this dis- ease must obstruct the flow of tears towards the inner angle, and through the panda lachrymalia, and why the complaint should always be attended with a weeping .of the eye. One of the most common causes of this malady is a con- traction of the integuments of the eyelid, or neighbouring part of the face. This change usually follows the cica- trization of burns, ulcers, and wounds. Slight cases, arising in this manner, may sometimes be cured, by keeping the eyelid gradually raised more and more every day, by small strips of sticking plaster, which are to be applied'to the outside of the affected eyelid, and to the lower part of the forehead. It must be confessed, however, that this method seldom proves permanently efficacious. In most instances it is necessary to remove a consider- able portion of the thickened everted lining of the eyelid with the aid of a convex bistoury, and a pair of dissecting forceps. In proportion as the wound heals afterwards, the eyelid, being properly supported by a compress and bandage, returns to its natural position. In the operation, care must be taken not to cut the pimcta lachrymalia. The eyelid is drawn inward again by the same principle, which caused itp eversion, viz. the contraction of a cica- trix.'* There is another species of ectropium, mostly met withpractice of surgery. 217 in old persons, which arises from a relaxation of the conjunctiva, and from a fungous thickened state the lining of the everted eyelid. Trivial eases of .is may be cured by turning the eyel.d completely out, aul rubbing the argentum nUratmn along its fungous surface, until a slough is produced, and afterwards using such re- medies as will be recommended in the chapter on oph- thalmy, for curing the relaxation of the conjunctiva, l he eyelid must be kept everted, until the whole ot the caustic has been completely washed off the slough, and the pat smeared with oil. trichiasis. In this disease the eyelashes arc turned inward toward the eyeball, which they irritate so much, as to produce very serious complaints. The malady is of two descrip- tions; one, in which there is no defect of the eyelid, and th<* whole grievance depends entirely on the wrong direc- tion, in which the cilia grow ; in the other, the defect lies altogether in.the eyelid itself, the margin ot which is pre- ternaturally turned towards the eye, so that the cilia rub against the front of this organ, and cause considerable in. convenience. The latter case is termed entropium. The causes of the distorted position of the cilia are, for the most part, cicatrices, and little indurations on the edges of the eyelids. A preceding inflammation, or ulceration, has caused the hairs to fall oft, and when they glow again, they shoot in a wrong direction. The trichiasis, if not relieved, generally destroys the eyesight; for the fnc tion and pressure of the hairs against the eye occasion se- vere pain, constant inflammation, and, at length, ulcers and complete opacities of the cornea. The cure of the first description of trichiasis consists in plucking out the inverted hairs, and preventing their grow- ing again in the same direction. W hen many piojeci in- ward, it is as well lobe content with eradicating a few everyFIRST LINES OF THE day, lest the operation should create too much pain and inflammation. The prevention of the hairs growing again in the same position, is frequentl y very difficult. After plucking out the hairs, the most successful plan is tosmear the whole inner half of the margin of the eyelid, by means of a fine hair pencil, with theaq. amnion, pur., or a solution of the argentum nitratum. The second kind of case, called entropium, is far the inost frequent. In the upper eyelid the defect is often owing to a relaxed state of the legator muscle ; and then it may sometimes be cured by supporting the eyelid for some time with tlie aid of sticking plaster, but almost always by producing a cicatrix. , r The most common cause of the entropium is an unna- tural relaxation of the skin of the eyelid ; and, in this case, it is generally requisite to remove a portion of it. ‘ • I r ■' <• * > 1 ‘ ’ t PTOSIS. lids is an affection of the upper eyelid, which the pa- tient cannot elevate in the natural manner. There are va- rieties of the complaint; the first depends on a preterna- tural elongation of (lie skin of (he upper eyelid ; the second on a weakness or total paralysis of the levator muscle ; hrkl the third on a spasmodic contraction of the orbicularis palpebrdrum. , The first kind is the most frequent, and is cured by the removal of the redundant integuments of the eyelid. i he second species is principally met with in old per- sons.-in whom the cure is often impracticable. This sort of ptosis sometimes seems to be symptomatic of other af- ,feet ions, 'chlorosis j irriiation in the stomach and bowels, worms, &c.' Sometimes it is entirely a local defect. The chief means of cure are, the external use of the tinc- 1 live of cantharidos and cold water ; the shower bath ; the internal exhibition of bark $ the use of camphorated lini* Incut; electricity. This ptosis is frequently periodical. : . .< i •PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 249 The third species of ptosis arises from a spasmodic affec- tion of the orbicularis muscle, and is the most uncommon. The affection is never continual, but makes its attacks at certain, or uncertain periods, and its duration is sometimes short, sometimes long. The spasmodic ptosis usually depends on some sympa- thetic irritation in the system. The removal of this par- ticular irritation, whatever it may be ; the internal exhibi- tion of antispasmodics ; applying a blister to the temple ; and bathing the eye with warm milk containing saffron, or with a decoction of poppy-heads, or cicuta, are objects to be observed in the treatment. » . . ' - . ! *. - • LAGOPHTHALMOS.—HARE EVE. This is a complaint, in which the eyelids cannot be shut, nor the eye covered. The inconveniences, resulting from the malady, are of various kinds. The eyes weep con- stantly, because the interruption of the alternate closure and opening of the eyelids hinders the tears lrom passing into the nose; the patient becomes blind in a very light situation, in consequence of his not being able to diminish the rays of light which tall on the eye ; and, on the same account, the sight becomes gradually very much weaken- ed ; the patient cannot sleep in any situation where there is the least light; and the extraneous substances in the at- mosphere, settling on the eyeball, cannot be washed away by the action of the eyelids, so that they occasion irrita- tion, pain, and redness. The cause of this complaint sometimes depends on a swelling, or protrusion of the eyeball out of the orbit. But the defect commonly lies in the upper eyelid. Some- times, though very seldom, it originates from a paralytic affection of the orbicularis muscle. This case requires the same kind of treatment as the second species of ptosis. Lagophlhalmus most frequently arises from a contrac- tion of the skin of the upper eyelid, in consequence of250 ' , FIRST LINES OF THE wounds, abscesses, burns, &c. This case is lo be treated on the same principles as the ectropium. Until the complaint is permanently cured, the eye should be protected by a shade from exposure to strong light. HORDEOLUM, OR STYE. The tumours of the eyelids are of various kinds. The stye is always situated at the edge of the eyelids. It is a very small, circumscribed tumour, about the size of a bar- leycorn. An inflamed stye is commonly very red and pain- ful ; and is very similar, in every respect, to a small boil, or an inflamed encysted tumour. J The cure of the inflamed stye demands the external em- ployment of emollient applications, for the tumour always suppurates ; and the more this is promoted, the sooner is the patient freed from inconvenience. Even when the stye has already suppurated, emollients are the best applica- tions, until the hardness has subsided. When the suppu- ration has terminated, a weak solution of the acetite of lead may be used to disperse the remaining redness and swelling. The indurated stye, as it is called, occasions a gooddeal of inconvenience, by frequently inflaming, and becoming painful: hindering the motion of the eyelids, and prevent- ing the free enjoyment of sight. The best mode of curing this disease is to touch the little induration with the argen- tum nitration, until it is destroyed. ENCYSTED TUMOURS OF T1IE EYELIDS. These are most frequently situated immediately under the skin ; but sometimes they lie so deeply, that they can be taken out more easily from the inside than the outside of the eyelid. They seldom become very large; and are more commonly observed on the upper, than the lower, eyelid. When they have attained a certain size, they hin- der the elevation of the eyelid, and occasion a ptosis.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 251 The attempt to disperse encysted tumours of the eyelids generally fails; and as the operation of removing them wnli a knife is by no means serious, it is almost absurd to tam- per with the complaint. Scarpa is a strong advocate tor removing the generality of these tumours, by making the incision through-the luting of the eyelid._ One would con- ceive, that if the tumour were on the outside of the cartilage of the eyelid, the operation must be most easy, when me wound is made through the integuments of the part. CHAP. XII. o P II T H A L M v. SYMPTOMS. OF all the disorders of the eyes inflammation is the most frequent, and there are few on which it is not attend- ant. Of many it is a symptom, or consequence. Fain and redness arc its chief diagnostic symptoms; the latter one is particularly so, the healthy eye being free from all redness. But this appearance is not essential to ophthal- my; for many eyes, undergoing vehement inflammation, are little, or not at all, fed. The internal ophthalmy is of this description. The red appearance, when present, is most evident in the white of the eye; but when ihe inflam- mation is severe, red vessels are frequently seen ramifying over the cornea. Little vesicles, containing extravasated blood, also, sometimes form on this transparent membrane. The dark red swelling of the conjunctiva, termed chemosis, arises from an effusion of blood into the loose cellular tex- ture, which connects this membrane with the sclerotica. The eyelids also commonly partake of the redness attend- ant on ophthalmy..FIRST LINES OF THE 252 In mild cases, the pain may be compared to a sense of heat m the part affected, or to a sensation, seeming to arise from the lodgment of sand, or dust, underneath the eye- ids. In more severe instances there is a violent, burning, spasmodic, darting pain in the eye. When the patient feels as if the orbit were too small for the eyeball; when ie experiences a darting pain in the eyebrow, sometimes shooting as far as the occiput; we may infer, that the oph- thalmy is ot a very vehement sort, and that there is danger of suppuration. file exposure of an inflamed eye to the light is produc- tive of considerable pain, attended with a copious dis- charge of tears; consequently patients affected with oph- thahny are generally observed with their eyes, more or less, closed. Ophfhalmy is sometimes attended with a diminution, or total loss of vision ; and this unpleasant event may depend on opacity of the cornea, a closure of the pupil, or a para- lytic state of the retina. Tumefaction, which accompanies inflammation in ge- neral, seems principally to affect, in these cases, the con- jnnetiva forming the white of the eye. In very violent ophthalmies, this membrane swells, in such a manner, that it- covers the whole cornea, protruding like a thick fold be- tween the eyelids, which cannot be shut. The whole eye- ball seems, on (his occasion, like a portion of red flesh. The cornea is also liable to become considerably thickened, so as to come into contact with the iris, and adhere to it, or to form an opaque prominence forward, termed staphy- loma. In ophthnlmy the eyelids are not unfrequently very much swollen. Acute inflammations of the eyes are usually accompanied with the common symptoms of inflammatory fever, the constitutional disturbance being proportioned to the vehemence of the local affection. In severe ophtlialmy, two di-.tinct stages are commonly ob-253 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. stirvablc ; the first is attended with a great deal of heat and pain in the eye, and considerable febrile disorder; the second is, comparatively, a chronic affection, without pain and fe- ver. The eye is merely weakened, moister than in the healthy state, and more or less red. The second stage is frequently very obstinate, and much more difficult to cure, than the iirsl. causes. Ophthalmy may be the consequence of the generalify of such exciting causes, as operate in producing inflamma- tion in other situations. A severe of cold, in which the eyes are affected, at the same time, with the pituitary cavitiesy fauces, and trachea ; change of weather ; sudden transi- tions from heat to cold ; tln^prevalencc of cold winds: re- siding in damp, or sandy countries, in the hot season ; ex- posure of the eyes to the vivid rays of the sun; are causes usually enumerated, and considering which, it does not seem extraordinary that ophthalmy should often make its appearance as an epidemic, and afflict persons of every age and sex. Besides these exciting causes, writers also gene- rally mention the suppression of some habitual discharge, as the menses, bleedings from the nose, hemorrhoids, &c. ; worms, dentition, &c. No experienced man can entertain any doubt, that there is a very intimate sympathy between the eyes and the abdominal viscera. TREATMENT OF ACUTE OPTHAtMY. In general, mild cases are easily cured by means of low diet, and gentle purging, with small repeated doses of the antim. tart. Scarpa recommends the following formula: li Antim. tart. gr. j. Decocti hordei foiss. Crystal!, tart, 3j. Sacchari pur. 3ij.—M. This mixture is to be taken every day in convenient doses. After searching for any extraneous body, that may have in- sinuated itself beneath the eyelids, the eye may be repeat-254 FIRST LINES OF THE edly washed with warm milk put into an eye-cup, and the a dec fed organ may afterwards be covered with a very soft bread and milk poultice, included in a little bag of very line linen. Under this treatment the acute stage of the ophthalmy commonly ceases in four or five days. The patient no longer complains of that oppressive sense of heat, weight, tension, and throbbing, experienced at first, and bears a moderate light without such a profuse evacuation of tears as w as produced by this cause before. At this period, how red soever the conjunctiva may ap- pear, it is no longer affected with acute inflammation ; and the ophthalmy has relapsed, from its inflammatory stage, into one comparatively chronic, attended with weakness and relaxation of the vessels of the conjunctiva, and mem- branous lining of the eyelids. Emollients are now impro- per, and astringent and corroborant collyria are indicated. Iy Zinci vitriol, gr. v. Aq. ros® ^iv. M. Or, Cerussx acet. gr. viij. Aq. foeniculi jfvj. Spir. via. camph. gtt. x.—M. One of these lotions should be applied to the eye, four or five times a day, by means of an eye-cup. The severe acute ophthalmy, and that which is attended with chemosis, require the antiphlogistic treatment in the most rigorous degree. Both general and topical blood- letting should be speedily put into practice, attention being paid to the age and constitution of the patient. Leeches should be applied to the vicinity of the eyelids, or, what is still better, blood should be taken from the tem- poral artery. When the chemosis is very considerable, the distention of the conjunctiva may be relieved, by ma- king an incision into this membrane, near its junction with the cornea. When bleeding and evacuations have been put into prac- tice, the next most useful measure is to apply a blister to the temple, or nape of the neck. At first, emollient applications arc the most beneficial,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 25> such as the bread and milk poultice, or the soft pulp of a roasted apple, included in a little appropriate muslin bag. Remedies of this description should be renewed, at least, every two hours. When the ophtkalmy is accompanied with an insupportable pain in the head, a strong decoction of poppy heads may be used as a fomentation. In older to prevent the eyelids from adhering together in the night time, their edges may be smeared with the spermaceti oint- ment. Under the preceding treatment, the acute stage of vio- lent ophthalmy commonly ceases in about a week. The 'burning heat, and darting pains in the eyes; the fever; and the tension of the eyelids, subside ; while a discharge of thick matter succeeds a secretion of thin serum, or a preternaturally dry state of these organs. A moderate light can now be borne without vast irritation. Notwithstand- ing the eyes may continue red, and the conjunctiva tume- fied, evacuations and emollient applications arc to be aban- doned. One of the above mentioned collyria is to be em- ployed ; and such patients as cannot bear the application cold, are to be permitted to use it warm. In proportion as the irritability diminishes, the warmth of the collyrium should be lessened, until the application can be borne quite cold. The tinebura ihebaica proves a most efficacious remedy for ophthalmy connected with local vascular weakness. Two or three drops may be insinuated between the palpc- brae and eyeball twice a day. However, in some instances, once in the evening proves sufficient. The application, at first, excites severe pain, and a copious flux of tears; but these symptoms soon go off, and leave the eye in a very im- proved state. When this remedy proves unsuccessful, it is usually when it has been employed prematurely, while great irritability and aversion to light exist. Whenever the patient can easily bear a moderate degree of light, all coverings should be removed from the eye,FIRST LINES OF THE 259 except a shade of green silk. A brighter light should every day be admitted into his chamber, so that he may become habituated to the open day light as soon as possible. Nothing has a greater tendency to maintain and augment the morbid irritability of the eyes, than keeping them unnecessarily long in a dark situation, or covered with compresses and bandages. PURULENT OPHTHALMY IN AnULT SUBJECTS. The purulent eyes of infants have already been noticed in the preceding chapter. There is another kind of puru- lent ophthalmy to which adults are subject, and which is so generally represented by the best modern authors, as arising from two very peculiar causes, viz. the suppression of a gonorrhoea, and the inadvertent application of go- norrhoeal matter to the eyes, that the mention of the case cannot be prudently omitted. The disease produces rather a swelling of the conjunc- tiva than of the eyelids. This tumefaction is followed by a discharge of a yellow, greenish matter, similar to what issues from the urethra in cases of clap. Heat, and pain in the eyes; great aversion to light; and, in some in- stances, an appearance of hypopium in the anteriour cham- ber ; attend the malady. When the complaint proceeds from the second cause, it is said to be less severe, TREATMENT, With respect to the case alleged to originate from tho- suppression of a discharge from the urethra, the injection of warm oil, the introduction of a bougie into the passage, and the application of poultices to the perineum, with a view of renewing the discharge, form the outline of the practice of those surgeons, who place implicit reliance in the reality of the above mentioned cause. Ilow'cver, the rarity of the complaint, upon the sudden stoppage of a gonorrhoea; the possibility of an ophthalmy arising asPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 37 well at this as at any other period, and totally independent of the urethral affection; and the fallacious nature of any inference, deduced from the supposed resemblance of the discharge from the eyes to that from the urethra, cannot fail to raise, in a discerning mind, a degree of doubt con- cerning the assigned cause. But should the fact be indis- putably established, it would proven very sympathetic connexion between the urethra and organs of vision ; but not any metastasis. The treatment of purulent ophthalmies, from what cause soever they may arise, consists, at first, in adopting anti- phlogistic means, applying emollient remedies to the eyes, and a blister to the temple, or nape of (he neck. The eyes may be frequently fomented with a decoction of white poppy heads, and warm milk may be repeatedly injected beneath the eyelids. To prevent the palpebra; from ad- hering together, the spermaceti cera(e may be smeared upon the edge of each tarsus every night at bed time. When the heat, and pain in the eyes, and febrile symp- toms have diminished; when an abundant discharge of pus has commenced; all topical emollient applications are to be relinquished, and a collyrium, thus composed, ft Aq. rosaejx. Ilvdrarg. mur. gr.j.—M. made use of. Scarpa affirms, that in the ophthalmy ori- ginating from the inadvertent communication of gonor- rhoeal matter to the eyes, applications in the form of oint- ment, such as Janin’s ophthalmic ointment, or the ling, hydrarg. nitrat. are more efficacious than fluid remedies. CHRONIC OPHTHALMY. We have seen, from the_foregoing account, that every acute ophthalmy has a second stage, which is, when com* pared with the first, of a chronic nature. However, when we speak of chronic ophthalmy, we generally mean the dis- ease as it appears in a very protracted state. sFIRST LINES OF THE 25S CAUSES. < The general causes of chronic opiithalmi/ are of three kinds. 1. An increased irritability continuing, in the eye after acute ophtkalmy. 2. Another affection of the eye and adjoining parts, of which the chronic ophtkalmy is only an effect. 3. Constitutional disease. 1. The first kind of case requires the internal exhibition of bark and valerian. The patient should take nourishing, easily digestible food; a moderate quantity of wine, and gentle exercise ; and he should reside in a mild and salu- brious situation. The spirit, am'mon. comp. (L. P.) should be applied to the eye through a funnel for half an hour, three or four times a day, and the eyelids and eyebrow may be rubbed with the Hnimmtuvi camphorcp. 2. The disorders in the eye and its vicinity, on which chronic ophthalmia depends as an effect, cannot be consi- dered in this chapter. scRornur.ous opiithamy. No specific for scrophula being known, the treatment consists rather iii preventing an aggravation than attempt- ing the radical cure of the complaint. Every thing debi- litating is injurious; as evacuations, indigestible food, in- tense study, a sedentary life, damp marshy residences, low- nessof spirits, frequent transitions -from heat to cold. On the other hand, keeping the bowels regular with small doses of ha/i Ictrl., antim. tarl., or rhubarb; and the exhibition of bark'j to which may be occasionally added the find, guaiaci ammon., are particularly useful. The JEihiops ?mncralis may be advantageously given from gr. ss. togr. xx. every day for three weeks. Scarp;! also recommends the aq. col- ors to be taken in‘brofhs for several months. Sea-bathing, and friction of the body with a flesh-brusl), are always be- neficial. With regard to topical remedies, soft relaxing applica-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 259 tions prove hurtful. Slightly astringent colli/via, the tinct. thebaic, and ung. tutias, are proper ones. All coverings must be removed from the eyes, except a shade of green silk. Scrophula often disappears spontaneously, as children approach the adult state, and with it this afiection of the eyes. CHRONIC OPHTHALMY SUCCEEDING TIIE SMALL POX. This species is described as peculiarly obstinate. Setons in the nape of the neck are among the best remedies. Scarpa recommends either the following powders, or pill, for a child ten years old : ft Crem. tart. |ss. Antim. tart. gr. j.—M. This quantity is to be divided into six equal parts, one of which is to be taken every morning and evening. ft Caloiu. gr. j. Sulph. aur. antim. gr. j. Pulv. cicut. gr. iv. ft. pit. When great irritability prevails, Scarpa recommends a mixture of 3 iij of vinum antim., and 3j of the tinct. theb. to be given iu doses of five or six drops, in any convenient vehisle, and aromatic spirituous vapours to be applied externally to the eye. In other cases, saturnine collyria, containing a little camphorated spirit; tinct. theb.-, Janiu’s ophthalmic ointment, &e. VENEREAL OFHTHALMY. ' * ' I » The case usually supposed to deserve this name, is said to be peculiar ill- not betraying manifest signs of inflamma- tion, stealing on clandestinely, without much uneasiness. It afterwards relaxes the vessels of the conjunctiva, and luring of the eyelids, and alters the secretion of Meibomius’s glands. Ulceration of the margin of the eyelids is caused, the eyelashes fall off, and the cornea becomes opaque. In the worst stage, the malady excites itcliiag in the eyes, 3 2260 FIRST LINES OF THE exasperated at night, and diminished towards the morn- ,ing. Mercurial frictions, together with the decoct, sarsap. and /’.are recommended. A few drops of a collyrium, containing the hydrarg. mur. are also directed to be in- stilled under the eyelids every two hours. At night, Ja- . ”m’S °m<menf’ ‘he wig. hydrarg. nitrat., may be used tor smearing the palpebrce. Violent inflammations of the eyes may terminate in a ge- neral suppuration of those organs, and render the restora- tion of sight totally impracticable. CHAP. XIII. OPACITIES AND ULCERS OF THE CORNEA. OPACITl of the cornea is one of the worst consequences of obstinate chronic ophthalmy. Scarpa distinguishes the superficial, and recent state of the disease, from the albugo and leucoma, which are usually accompanied with inflam- mation, assume a clear pearl colour, and affect the very sub- stance of the cornea. The nebula, or slight opacity, now to be considered, is preceded by, and attended with, chronic ophthalmy. The iris and pupil can be seen through a kind of dimness ; and of course the patient is not entirely bereft of vision. The veins of the conjunctiva, greatly relaxed by the protracted duration of chroiyc ophthalmy, become preternaturally turgid, irregular, and knotty; first in their trunks, then in their ramifications, near the union of the cornea with the sclerotica;* - and, ultimately, in their most minute * See Plate V. fig. l. A, the nebula; B, dilated vessels.t 1* * - f-'V i . ■ ■■ ■ ' I ►PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 251 tranches, returning from the delicate lamina of the con- junctiva, spread over the anteriour surface of the cornea. When this happens, a milky albuminous secretion begins to be superficially effused in the interspaces between the red streaks. The opaque specks, thus produced, may cover only a part, or the whole, of the cornea. The opacity of the cornea, sometimes occurring in vio- lent ophthalmies, is essentially different from the nebula, and arises from a deep extravasation of coagulating lymph into the cellular texture of the cornea, or irom an abscess between the layers of this membrane* TREATMENT OF THE NEBULA. Very active measures ought to be taken in the incipient state of the disease ; for though it may at first only occupy a small portion of the cornea, if left to itself it will conti- nue to extend towards the centre of this membrane; an«. the veins become more and more varicose, it will convert the delicate layer of the conjunctiva, spread over the sur- face of the cornea, into a dense, opaque film. The curative indications are, to make the varicose vessels recover their natural diameters ; and if that be impractica- ble, to cut off all communication between the trunks ot the most prominent varicose veins of the conjunctiva, and those on the cornea. The first plan is executed by using Ja- nin’s ointment, or the wig. hr/drarg. nitrat., together with astringent colly via. The second is accomplished by the excision of the fasciculus of varicose veins, just at the base of the opacity ; and the most convenient instruments arc, a very sharp pair of dissecting scissars, and the com- mon anatomical forceps. ALBUGO AND LEUCOMA. These are effects of severe acute ophthalmy, and consist of an extravasation of dense lymph into the very substance202 FIRST lines OF the *>f the cornea,. The disease is sometimes the consequence of an ulcer, or wound of this membrane. The first spe- cies, arising from the extravasation of lymph, is named albugo; while the term leucoma is particularly applied to the other form of the complaint. The recent albugo may sometimes be dispersed by the same treatment as is applicable to violent ophthalmy, viz. at first general and topical bleedings, internal antiphlogis- tic remedies, and topical emollients; in the second sta°ge, astringent, and moderately stimulating, topical applica- tions. However, all our efforts are unavailing when the action-of the absorbents in the part has been, as it were, deadened, and the texture of the cqrnea disorganized. In recent cases, as soon as the inflammation of the eye has been subdued, there is no better remedy for promoting the absorption of the extravasated opaque matter than the un-. gnent. ht/drarg. nitr., applied accurately to the seat of the opacity by means of a hair pencil. The eye may also be frequently washed with the following collyrium, mentioned in Scarpa’s excellent book on the diseases of the eyes : Two Scruples of sal ammoniac, four grains of yerdigrease, dis- solved in eight ounces of lime water: the mixture is to stand twenty-four hours, and is then to be filtered. The treatment should be continued for three, or four months, before'the case is abandoned as incurable. In the true leucoma, arising from a cicatrix, nothing known has the power of restoring the transparent state 0} the cornea. < ULCEUS OF THE COHNE.L An ulcer of the cornea is Commonly the consequence of the rupture of a small abscess, which not unfrequently. forms beneath the dedicate layer of the conjunctiva, conti- nued over the cornea, or in the very substance of the cornea itself, in consequence of violent ophthalmy. At'other timesPRACTICE OF SURGERY. *» the ulcer !s V■“l,°^^icUnme, pieces stances in contact ^itn j ? S rtll^n Viscid, -Ret n.r* particle of it ever issues^from an opening, m,i the «ouud «*p^ t disease, increases the danger of opaedy of the«^«. SrS by bathing the eye with warm milk and water, an ,7 P rtlviriff to it emblUeiit poultices. - ., i „ P Tie ulcer of the cornea is of a pale ash-colour; its edges are high and irregular ; it creates acute pain dirges* serous matter, and has a tendency to spread widely an deeply- Scarpa has observed, that tins character is no peculiar to ulcers of the cornea, it is common to a ros sores which are situated where the skin is delicate, tense, and exquisitely sensible; as on tire hippies ot the the gitiris penis, lips, apex of the tongue, &c. lien the ulcers of the cornea spread superfiem . , transparency of the membrane becomes destroyed ; v. on <m proceed deeply, and penetrate the anteriour chamber of the aqueous humour, this fluid escapes, nod a fistulous opening may remain, or a prolapsus of a portion «#*•«»<» take place. If the ulcer be large, even the crystal bnekns and vitreous humour may fall out: nod, m short a total destruction of (he whole organ of sight be the result. 1 cicatrix of a large ulcer impairs the texture of the cornea go much, that the injury is irremediable. TREATMENT OF ULCERS OF THE CORNEA. In order to determine what, plan ot cure should be fol lowed, it is very important to know that, akliou-;>h t k uFIRST LINES OF THE S«s*»!K5sa: but afterThl T’ 6 to« the farmer; attempted, is to destroy «j**° b° immedi*ely bility of the ulcer Trf cyeme sensibility and irrita, , 1CCr‘ In Prnportion as this intension is f„] :of?gr q ires the use of an astringent collyrium. . xhe best plan is to take a niece nf fi10 turn, scraped to a point, like a^ci, and 7 7 -rateip to the ulcerated surfa^f^ c „ n bathed in warm milk Till afterwards to be applied .bcpai: ;mpA, c:r an,it tucaus,ic* he is amply compensated for th , ^ ^! but the comfort experie”d ave v f ^ "*** b* Ponced a very few m,notes after the open* rence of n moving the eye and eyelids, the surgeon, without May , rmeW the “PPlmation of the argevtum mlratum taking care to make as good an eschar ifs before, ovc2 whole surface of the sore. The same benefit, experienced from the previous operation, will be experience a-min he eirr" M “"** “ l° “d “ °ft“ »s i‘W « - necessary At every separation of the eschar, the dis- the ulcer" will'f "'l' °C’ a”d the «l™t and depth of •om a| ’1 •bC ‘°“nd more an<1 morc diminished. The •ore also loses its ash colour, and assumes a pink hue: aPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 2<35 certain mark of its disposition to heal. We must now abandon the use of the caustic, and be content with em- ploying the vitriolic collj/rium. Towards the end of the case, if relaxation of the cornea should continue, Janin’s ointment may be serviceable. Slight excoriations of the cornea, being mere separations of the layer of the conjunctiva, naturally spread over that membrane, do not require the use of caustic: for them the vitriolic collj/rium is quite sufficient. Sometimes, as Scarpa accurately describes, the ulcer of the cornea, already very extensive, and being wrongly treated, assumes the form of a fungous excrescence, which seems to derive its support from a plexus of blood vessels in the conjunctiva. This sort of ulcer, left to itself, or treated with slight astringents, produces, in general, a loss of sight. The1 most vigorous measures are indicated. These consist in cutting away the fungus with a pair of small scissars, to a level with the cornea, and continuing the in- cision far enough on the conjunctiva to remove, with the excrescence, the net work of vessels, fromwhich it was sup- plied with blood. Having accomplished this, and al- lowed the blood to flow ireely, the argentum nitratum is to be applied to all that surface of the cornea, which ap- pears to have been the seat of the J'ungus. The applica- tion of the caustic must be repeated, until the ulcerative process changes into the healing one.HE ST LINES OF TIIE Iflts CHAP. XIV. i , ' ' OF TIIE PTERYGIUM AND ENCANTHIS. 1. PTERYGIUM. THIS term is applied to the little, preternatural, red- dish, akh-coloured, triangular membrane, usually growing from the internal angle of the eye, about the caruncula la- cfiryhwlis, and extending over the cornea to the great im- pairment of vision. Although ihis kind of membrane ge- nerally proceeds from the inner cantlius, it occasionally arises from the outer one, and, in some instances, from the superiour and inferiour hemisphere of the eye itself. "Wheresoever it originates, it is a remarkable fact, that it is invariably of h triangular shape, the base of the triangle being towards the white of the eye, the apex towards the contccr, sometimes at a greater, sometimes at a lesser dis- tance, from the axis of sight. In a few uncommon cases, two* or three pterygia., of various sizes, arc met with in the same eye, arranged with different interspaces around die circumference of the organ. Sometimes their points meet, and coalesce on the centre of the cornea, so as to completely abolish the functions of the eye. Scarpa observes, with his usual accuracy, that between chronic varicose ophthalmy with relaxation of the con- junctiva, the superficial opacity, termed nebula, and the pterygium, the only difference is in the degree of the dis- * Plate V. fig. 2. Two pterygia, of different sizes, on the same eye. A, the larger one, next the no-e ; 13, the smaller one, next the temple. The straight and semicircular lines on the pterygium A, de- note the double direction which ought to be given to the incision ter extirpating the malady.PRACTICE OE SURGERY. 56t ease. All three consist of a varicose state of the vessels of the conjunctiva, over a certain extent of this membrane, together with a degree of relaxation of the tunic itself. In the chronic varicose ophthalmy, the preternatural magni- tude, and knottiness of the veins, and the relaxation of the conjunctiva arc confined to the white'of the eye; in the nebula the vessels of the conjunctiva arc dilated and knotty even over some part of the delicate layer of this membrane,' coveringthe transparent portion of the eve : in the ptery- gium to the varicose state of the vessels on the surface of the cornea, is added a thickening of the lamina of the conjunctiva spread over this membrane. Avery peculiar feature of the pterygium is the facility with which it may be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and raised in a fold over the cornea. It is worthy of no- tice, however, that sometimes the pterygium assumes a ma- lignant cancerous nature, and then it has a bright red co- lour, like sealing w ax, easily bleeds when touched,' is firm- ly adherent to the cornea, and occasions lancinating pains, which extend over (he whole eye and temple. Scarpa re- commends this case to be treated on the palliative plan ; but it seepis questionable, whether it might no! be proper to attempt the total excision of the malady ; if the trial should fail, we might (hen extirpate the eye; an operation truly horrible, but one, which would certainly become inevit- able, it the malignant pterygium were allowed to increase, and one, which can be avoided by no other means, than an effort to extirpate the recent disease. TREATMENT OF THE PTERYCJ lUtwl The cure is performed by accurately cutting away the opaque triangular membrane from the surface of the cor- nea. As the pterygium itself is the delicate layer of the conjunctiva, forming the natural covering of the cornea, a cicatrix, and a degree ot dimness, necessarily remain after£65 _ FIRST LINES OF THE * See the shape of the incision. Plate 5, fig. 2. the operation. The opacify, however, is always of much less extent than the pterygium. A pair of small dissecting forceps, and a pair of very sharp scissars, suffice for the operation. Scarpa has found it unnecessary to detach every pterygium, from its point to the termination of its basis ; but only to continue the detachment from its point, as far as the commencement of the sclerotica, and then to complete its separation from thereye by a semilunar transverse incision,* comprehend- ing a portion of the conjunctiva one line in breadth. The subsequent part of the treatment chiefly consists in pre- venting inflammation. 2. ENCANTHIS. The encantliis,in the incipient state, is a small, soft, red, and sometimes livid excrescence, growing from the carun- cida lachry mails, and neighbouring semilunar fold of the conjunctiva. In the inveterate state its magnitude is con- siderable ; and its roots extend beyond the caruncula la- chrymalis, along the lining of one or both eyelids. The com- plaint excites chronic ophthalmy, prevents the complete closure of the eye, and by compressing and displacing the pttneta lachrymalia, obstructs the free passage of tears into the nose. The surface of the excrescence is at first granulated like a mulberry, but after the tumour has be- come laige, only a part of its outside has the above appear- ance, while the rest sterns like a smooth, whitish, ash-co- loured substance. In this advanced state the body of the encanlhis divides (to use Scarpa’s figurative expression) like a swallow’s tail, so as to form two elongations, one of which extends along the inner surface of the upper eyelid, the other along the inside of the lon er one. As ofpterygium, so there is a malignant species of cn- c ant h is, denoted by its dull red colour, bleeding tendency,PRACTICE OF SURGERY.^ 26* lancinating' pain, excessive hardness, and very fetid dis- charge. The same practical observations apply to this case, as to the cancerous pterygium. TREATMENT OF THE ENCANTHIS. • The cure of this disease is accomplished by raising the tumour from its base, and lifting up the elongation, ex- tending along the inside of the eyelids with a pair of for- ceps, and detaching them with a pair of sharp scissars, or a bistoury. No more of the caruncula lachrj/malis is to be removed than is absolutely essential to the success of the operation, is the deficiency would be likely to occasion an irremedi- able weeping of the eye. CHAP. XV. STAPHYLOMA PROLAPSUS OF THE IRIS CLOSURE OF THE PUPIL. 1. STAPHYLOMA IS the name given to that disease of the eye, in which the cornea loses its natural transparency, rises above its pro- per level, and even projects between the eyelids, in the form of a whitish, pearl-coloured tumour, which is attend- ed with total loss of sight. The malady commonly results from some violent spe- cies of ophthalmy, particularly that which is termed pu- rulent, and afFects children, and that which is consequent to the small pox. As Scarpa observes, the stophj/loma is one of the most serious diseases, to which the eyeball is subject; for to the total and irremediable loss c f sight are^70 first lines of the added all tile evils, which necessarily result from the pro- tuberance of the cornea in advanced cases. The eyelids cannot be closed ; the exposure of the eyeball to the con- tact of the'air. and extraneous matter suspended in it; the friction of the eyelashes against the tumour ; the incessant Hux of tears down the subjacent check; render the eye painful and inflamed ; sympathetically induce ophthalmy in the sound one ; and cause ulceration both on the dis- eased part of the eye, and on the lower eyelid and cheek. TREATMENT OF STAPHYLOMA. 9 ' The opacity being irremediable, the only surgical object is to prevent the inconveniences arising from the protuber- ance of the diseased cornea. In recent cases, when the tumoui does not project forward, it is best to do nothing. In inveterate cases the prominent part of the cornea must be cut olf. Scarpa recommends doing the operation as far from die conjunctiva as the case will allow. This eminent practitioner introduces such a knife as is used in extrac- tion of the cataract, completely across the staphyloma, at the distance 01 one line and a half, or two lines from the centre of the tumour. The lower half of the prominence is to be detached by pushing the knife onward, till its edge comes out through the membrane below ; then the flap is to be turned up with a. pair of forceps, and the incision rendered completely cir- cular with the same bistoury. The aqueous humour,, crystalline lens1, and some of the vitreous, humour usually escape immediately after the operation, and the.eye conse- quently becomes so diminished as. to allow the eyelids to be shut. Qphfhalmy and suppuration succeed, i molliout poultices are to be applied, until the violence of the inflam- mation has a,bated, the quantify of matter diminished, and the wound betrayed a disposition to heal. Then they may he.left oil, and occasionally touching the sore with the ar-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 271 senium nitraum, and applying a pledget over the eye, to will complete the cicatrization. 2. ritOT.A^SUS OF THE IRIS. Sometimes, when the aqueous humour has escaped through an ulcer, or wound of the cornea, the iris is press- ed forward by the humours situated behind it, until a por- tion of it protrudes from the eye, at the same opening, through which the aqueous humour made its escape. The little tumour is of the same colour as the iris, \ iz. brown, or greyish, and is surrounded at its base by an opaque circle of the cornea. If we reflect a little on the delicate structure of the itisr ^on the exeat quantity of bloodvessels which enter it, and the numerous nervous filaments which are distributed to it, we shall easily conceive the nature and severity of those symptoms which are wont to attend this disease, how small soever the portion ot the iris projecting from the cornea may be, even when not larger than a pin s head. Pain, similar to what would arise lrom something pricking the eye ; an oppressive sense ot tightness in the whole eyeball; inflammation of the conjunctiva and eyelids ; a copious ef- fusion of tears ; and an absolute inability to endure the light ; arc the symptoms which successively follow this complaint. The pupil deviates from the centre of the iris, towards the seat of the prolapsus, and assumes an oval shape. In very old cases the protruded portion of the iris seems frequently to become less sensible and irritable, so that patients do not experience inconvenience equal to the above account. TREATMENT OF PROLAPSUS OF THE IRIS. Tn the early stage of this disease some recommend en- deavouring to replace the iris in its proper situation by. means of a small probe, and, in case of difficulty, to dilate the opening- in the,cornea by an incision, just as we areFIRST LINES OF THE £72 accustomed to do, in order to return a strangulated henna. Others recommend suddenly exposing the eye to a strong light, with a view of making them's contract with sufficient force to disengage the protruded portion, Scarpa con- demns every attempt of this sort, and maintains that, in this disease, the total loss of sight is prevented by the aque- ousJiumour being kept from continually escaping, the con- sequence of the protruded part of the iris acting like a plug, and stopping up the aperture in the cornea. How- ever, I think no one can question (he propriety of endea- vouring to replace the iris, when it is recently protruded through a wound of the cornea. .But when the prolapsus' has existed some time, we ought probably to be content with accomplishing two objects ; one is to diminish, as speedily as possible, the exquisite sensibility of the pro- truded portion of the -iris ; the other is to destroy gradu- ally the projecting part of this membrane, sufficiently to prevent the little tumour from keeping the edges of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, so much asunder as to im- pede cicatrization. For this purpose the projecting portion of the ms is to be touched with the argentum nitratum, so as to form an eschar. The patient experiences acute pain during the operation, but it soon subsides when the eye has been bathed with warm milk. The consequent relief only lasts while the eschar remains adherent, and when this is detached two or three days afterwards, the abovementioned com- plaints are experienced again, though in a milder degree. The caustic is now to be once more applied, and even used, if necessary, a third and fourth time, until the pro- minent part of the iris is sufficiently reduced to a level with the edges of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, to create no obstacle to cicatrization. Then the surgeon is to be con- tent with directing a vitriolic collt/rium to be used, and the ung. htjdrarg. nitrat. (lowered) to be smeared over the inner surface of the eyelids every morning and evening.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 273 Some recommend the projection of the iris to he cut off with a stroke of thescissars, but this method is deemed less successful) than the plan already explained. The shape of the pupil always remains somewhat oval; however, this is productive of very trivial impairment of sight, and in time the opening in the iris becomes much wider, than it is immediately after the cure. 3. CLOSURE OF THE PUPIL. When this occurs, it is most frequently the consequence of a violent inflammation of the internal membranes of the eye, especially the iris, inconsequence of an operation. In particular instances the malady follows extraction and de- pression of the cataract, but without an inflammatory af- fection of the interior of the eye appearing to have any share in its origin. After an indeterminate time from the operation, the pupil is perceived to diminish in diameter daily, without any evident cause, and ordinarily closes so much, that it can hardly admit a pin’s head. The iris is motionless, and assumes a radiated rugose appearance. When no opacity exists behind this membrane, a little black speck is seen in its centre. W hen the retina is sound the patient may sometimes re- gain a considerable power of vision, by having an artificial pupil formed. Some surgeons prefer opening the cornea, and making a perpendicular division ot the iris by means of a pair of scissars. Cheseldcn was the first, who performed an opera- tion, with a view of diminishing the blindness produced by this malady ; he introduced a couching needle, having a sharp edge only on one side, through the sclerotica, about a line and a halt from the margin of the cornea. After perforating the iris, towards the external angle, and then pushing the point of the needle transversely through the anterior chamber, as far as the edge of the iris next the nose, he turned the edge of the instrument backward, and x274 FIRST LINES OF TH •withdrew it, so as to make a transverse division of the iris. Scarpa thinks the artificial pupil is more easily made, by detaching a certain extent of the circumference of the iris next the nose from the ciliary ligament, by means of a couching needle. ciiap. xvi. HYPOPIUM; DROPSY OF THE EYE; CaINCI E AND EXTIRPATION OF TIIE EYE. 1. HYPOPIUM. HYPOPIUM is an accumulation of a glutinous, yel- lowish fluid, like pus, in the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, and frequently also in the posterior one, in consequence of violent ophthalmy. The symptoms, exciting apprehension of an hypopium, arc the very same which occur in the highest stage of vio- lent acute ophthalmy, viz. prodigious tumefaction of the eyelids ; redness and swelling of the conjunctiva, as in chemosis ; burning heat and pain in the eye ; pains in the eyebrow and nape of the neck ; fever; restlessness ; aversion to the faintest light, and a contracted stateof the pupil. As soon as the hypopium begins to form, a yellowish, semilunar streak makes its appearance at the bottom of the anterior chamber, and regularly, as the glutinous fluid is secreted, it increases in all dimensions, and gradually ob- scures the iris, first, its inferior part, next where it forms I he pupil, and lastly, its whole circumference. While the inflammatory stage of the violent dphthalmy lasts, thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 275 hypopium never fails to enlarge; as soon as this stage ceases, and the op'htlmlmy becomes connected with local weakness, the hypopium leaves off increasing, and from that moment is disposed to diminish* TREATMENT* During the first stage of the violent ophthalmy, while the hypopium is increasing, the same treatment, as is re- commended for severe acute inflammation of the eye, is the most proper. In the second stage of the ophthalmy, when the hypopium has become stationary, surgeons, little versed in the treatment of diseases of the eyes, would sup- pose. that an opening ought to be made in the most depend- ing part of the cornea. But experience proves* that di- viding this membrane, in cases of hypopium, is seldom suc- cessful, and most frequently gives rise to evils worse than the hypopium itself, viz. the reproduction of violent oph- thalmy ; a greater effusion of matter into the chambers of the aqueous humour; and an ulcer of the cornea, attended with prolapsus of the iris. Scarpa only admits (he pro- priety of making an opening in one particular case, which is when the quantity of extra v a sated matter is so consider- able, that the excessive distention, which it produces of all the coats of the eye, occasions such vehement symp- toms, as not 01 dy threaten the entire destruction of the or- gan, but even endanger life. From knowing, that blood, extravasated in the eye in consequence oi blows, that the fragments of membranous cataracts, that milky and caseous cataracts, nay, that the firm crystalline lens ilself, can be totally removed by the lymphatics, we may easily conclude, that the resolution of an hypopium, by means ol absorption, is the primary indi- cation to which the surgeon should direct his attention. After subduing the violence ot the ophthalmy by the most rigorous employment of the antiphlogistic treatment, the surgeon must endeavour to quicken the action of the abr t 2FIRST LINES OF THE 276 sorbents in the eye. Camphorated emollient poultices may be applied ; the vapours ol the spir. ammon■ comp. may be directed against the eye, through a tube two or three times a day ; a blister may be put on the nape of the neck ; and when the irritability of the, organ has di- minished, the vitriolic collyrium may be used. This may afterwards be strengthened by the addition of a few drops of camphorated spirit. Under such treatment the hypo- pium most commonly disappears, in proportion as the chronic ophthalmy is relieved. But success does not invariably follow the most skilful treatment, and sometimes nothing can prevent ulceration, opacity, and bursting of the cornea, and a succeeding pro- lapsus of the iris. 2. DROPSY OP THE EYE. When the secerning extremities of the arteries, and the rhinutc mouths of the absorbent vessels of the eye, do not act in their naturally reciprocal manner, the organ may become distended with a morbid redundance of an aqueous secretion. This malady constitutes what is termed dropsy of the eye, and is attended at first with great weakness, and afterwards with total loss of sight. Scarpa, who has had many opportunities of dissecting dropsical eyes, is inclined to believe, that in the generality of instances the disease chiefly depends on a diseased secre- tion of the vitreous humour, and also occasionally, on a morbid alteration of the alveolary membrane, by which this tumour is produced. The eye affected assumes an oval shape, terminating in a point on the cornea ; then, as the organ enkirges in all dimensions, it projects from the orbit in such a manner that it causes immense deformity, and prevents the closure of the eyelids. The disease is sometimes preceded by blows on the eye, or adjoining temple; sometimes by an obstinate internal ophthalmy. In other instances ii is preceded by no in-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 27/ conveniences, except an uneasy sensation of tumefaction and tension in the orbit, a difficulty of moving the eyeball, and a considerable impairment of sight. \V hen the eye has assumed an oval figure, and the anterior chamber has become preternaturally capacious, the iris seems situated backward in an unnatural degree, and tremulates in a very singular way, on the slightest motion of the eyeball. The pupil remains dilated in every degree of light, while the crystalline is sometimes discoloured from the very begin- ning of the disease, and sometimes does not become opaque, till the affection has arrived at its highest pilch. W hile the eye is not considerably enlarged, and the crystalline is not deeply opaque, the patient can usually distinguish the outlines of objects and brilliant colours. But when the eye has acquired a larger volume, and the whole crys- talline has become opaque, the retina becomes completely paralytic, probably, from the excessive distention which it suffers. In the last stage of the disease, when the dropsical eye projects from the orbit, so as not to admit of being covered by the eyelids, to the inconveniences already enumerated, others associate themselves, arising sfrom the dryness of the eye ; the contact of extraneous bodies ; the friction of the eyelashes ; the very viscid secretion from the eyelids ; the ulceration of the lower eyelid, and even of the eye it- self. He nee the advanced stage of dropsy of the eye in- duces violent ophthalmias, followed by ulceration and total destruction of the organ. TREATMENT. In tire incipient period of the disease, it is usual to pre- scribe mercurials, or cicuta internally, and to make a set on in ihe nape of the neck. Scarpa describes astringent appli- cations as hurtful, and recommends the eye to be bathed with a decoction of mallows.FI 11 ST LINES- OF THE G7S W hen the disease has attained such a pitch that the eye protrudes from the orbit, there is no means of opposing the •grievous dangers now impending, except making an inci- bion in order to evacuate (lie superabundant fluid in the eye. To defer the operation any longer is the same thing as abandoning the patient to the inconvenience of an habi- tual ophthalmy, the danger of ulceration of the eyeball, and lower eyelid, and what is worse, of carcinoma of the whole eye. Simply puncturing the eye is no more ade- quate to produce a permanent cure of the dropsical affec* lion, than puncturing the tunica vaginalis is sufficient to produce a radical cure of the hydrocele. Inflammation and suppuration must be excited, besides discharging the redundant humours contained in the organ. The best method to pursue is that which has been re- commended for the cure of the inveterate staphyloma. A portion of the centre of the cornea, about as 'broad as a pea, is to be cut out, and so much of the humours are then to be pressed out as will permit the eyelids to be brought over the eye. Nothing but a pledget of dry lint, kept on by a bandage, is to be applied before the inflammation has laken place, which is usually about the third or fifth day. Then antiphlogistic means may be adopted, and emollients employed. Mr. Ford lias recommended the introduction of a seton through the eye in these cases, 3. CANCER OR THE EYE, Carcinoma is said to make its appearance in this situa* tion in three forms. Sometimes the eyeball becomes irre- gulir and knobby, and swells to the size of an apple ; the sight is gradually lost.; the blood-vessels in the white of the eye enlarge ; and the whole external and internal structure of the organ becomes so altered, that the part resembles a piece oi flesh, and no vestiges of its original organizationPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 2.9 remain. Sometimes a portion of the cornea is still exter- nally visible. Internally may sometimes be discerned a small aperture, through which may be distinguished the remains of the vitreous humour, and of the choroid coa ^ In some instances the eyeball is ulcerated, and emits a fetid discharge. In others there is not the smallest appearance of ulceration, and the eyeball resembles a piece of firm flesh. The patient commonly experiences in the eve, from the first, considerable burning, and at last violent darting pains, extending over one side of the head. Hus is 1 ie most frequent description of cancer of the eye. Sometimes excrescences form on the anterior surface of ihe eye, especially on the transparent cornea, and frequent- ly admit of being radically cured by the knife, caustics, or ligature. But occasionally, they regularly grow again after the employment ot these means, becoming broader, more malignant, and even cancerous, and at length chang- ing into a spongy fungus, which is very painful, covers the whole anterior surface of the eye, and renders extirpation indispensable. This is the second sort of cancer of the eye. On several occasions ulcers form on the tront of the eye- ball, which, though generally curable by proper means, sometimes arc exceedingly inveterate, entirely destroying the eyesight, and becoming so malignant as to obtain the appellation of cancer. This is the third species of cancer of this organ. 4. extirpation of the eye. . / When the eyeball is exceedingly enlarged, it is neces- sary to divide the eyelids at the external angle, in order to facilitate the operation. The surgeon can operate most conveniently when he employs a common dissecting kniie, and when his patient is lying down with his face exposed to g.good light. That operator must be endued with very2,10 FIRST LINTS of the ■ little dexterity, who find, i, necessary to introduce ,looks and ligatures through the eye, with , view ofdrawin.it outward, while he is dividing the surrounding parts. .nan of common adroitness can require anyotber means, for ^ is purpose, than llls own lingers, or a pair of forceps. .1 hen the eyelids are diseased they must be first removed ; mt when prudence sanctions their being preserved, this is an immense advantage. No particular directions how to accomplish the operation seem requisite, The eye must not be drawn out too forcibly before the optic nerve is di- vided, and care must be taken not to penetrate any of the fommma,ox thin parts of the orbit, with the point of the knife ,or fear ot injuring the brain. Great care should also x. taken to leave no diseased parts behind in the orbit, he hemorrhage may be securely stopped by filling the orbit with soft scraped lint. It is always advisable to re- move the lachrymal gland, as this part seems to be parti- cularly apt to be the source of such inveterate fungous dis- cases, as too oden follow the operation. The antiphlogistic treatment is proper for a few days af- ter'warns. Sometimes fungous granulations contiouallyform in the orbit, notwithstanding they are repeatedly destroy. , ed, and the patient is at last, exhausted. Sometimes the tusease in the mbit extends even to the brain, and pro- duces fatal consequences. When malignant fungous ex- crescences grow from the cornea alone, it is unnecessary to extirpate the whole eyeball..PRACTICE OF SURGERY. i 261 CHAP. XVII. GUTTA SERENA, OR AMAUROSIS. A BLINDNESS, depending on a paralytic affection of the retina and optic nerve, is termed gntta serena, or amau- rosis. The disease is either complete, or incomplete; inveterate, or recent; continued, or periodical. SYMPTOMS, VARIETIES, &C. Almost all the symptoms of a gutta serena are falla- cious. In many cases the pupil is dilated, immoveable, and retains its natural black colour and transparency. But sometimes, in the most complete and incurable gutta se- rena, the pupil is of its natural size, and, in a few instances, is capable of motion. The pupil of an eye, affected with this malady, seldom exhibits the clear, shining blackness, which is seen in a healthy state of this organ ; for the most part, this aperture has a dull, glassy, or horny appearance. Sometimes its colour is greenish. In some instances it gcems whitish and opaque, so as to be mistaken for an in- cipient cataract. The white appearance in the pupil ge- nerally arises from a reflection of light from the retina, in consequence of this membrane having lost its. natural trans- parency. Richter mentions strabismus as the only symptom inva- riably connected with amaurosis. The blindness, produced by the gulta serena, is generally preceded by an appearance of numerous insects, or sub- stances like pieces of cobwebs, interposing themselves be- tween objects and the eye. The origin of a cataract, on the other hand, is usually attended with a simple cloudi- ness in vision.282 FIRST LINES GF THE , ^ ' OmpJ.ClG inveterate amaurosis, with organic in jury of the substance, constituting the im- mediate organ of sight, is a disease absolutely incurable. T-he incomplete recent amaurosis, particularly that which is periodical, is ordinarily curable; for it is mostly 'sympathetic Avith (he stomach and primes via’, Or depend- ent on causes, which, though they affect the immediate or- gan ot sight, are capable of being dispersed, without leav- ing any vestige of impaired organization in the optic nerve, or retina. When amaurosis has prevailed several years, in persons of advanced age, wliose eyesight has been weak from their youth; when it has come on slowly, at first with a morbid increase oi sensibility in the immediate organ of sight, then Avith a gradual diminution of sensation in this organ, to the state ot utter blindness ; Avhen the pupil is motionless, ! and has lost its circular shape, without being \-ery much dilated; when this aperture is dilated in such a deovee. that the iris seems, as if it were, Avanting, and its margin is irregular and fringed ; and Avhen the bottom of the eye, independently of any opacity of the crystalline, presents an unusual paleness, like that of horn, or else a greenish hue; the malady may generally be considered incurable. * Those cases may also be deemed irremediable Avliich are attended Avith universal head-ache, and constant sense of ’ ‘ tension in the eyeball; Avhich are preceded by a violent, protracted excitement of the Avhole nervous system, then by general debility, and languor of the Avhole constitu- tion. There is no remedy for such cases as arc preceded or accompanied by epileptic fits, or frequent hemicrania ; nor for such as arc the consequence of severe, obstinate, internal ophthalmias. We may also set down those cases as incurable, Avhich, besides being of long standing, lnn’e originated from violent concussions of the head, or blows on the eyeball. The same may be said of amaurosisfPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 283 vvlicn it arises from a violent contusion or laceration of the supra-orbitary nerve; when it proceeds from the entra nee of foreign bodies into the eyeball ; when it is attended with exostoses on the forehead, sides of the nose, or os maxillare ; and when conjoined with a manifest change in the figure and dimensions of the whole eyeball. On the contrary, all cases of incomplete recent amauro- sis, are mostly curable, when not produced by any causes capable of contusing or destroying the organic texture of the optic nerve and retina, and when the immediate organ of sight retains some sensibility to the impression of light. Recent and sudden cases, in which the pupil is not exces- sively dilated, and in which the disk of this aperture re- tains its regularity, w hile behind it the bottom of the eye is of a deep black colour; cases which are not accompanied by any acute and continual pain in the head and eye- brow', nor by any sense of constriction in the eyeball -r cases which originate from violent emotions of the mind ; excessive fulness of the stomach ; irritating matter in this viscus ; plethora; suppression of some habitual evacua- tion; great loss of blood; nervous debility, of not an in- veterate .nature, in young subjects; are all, generally speaking, curable. Amaurosis is also remediable when it comes on during convulsions; the efforts of difficult par- turition ; towards the termination of acute, or intermittent fevers ; and w hen the malady partakes of a periodical na- ture, so as to come on, and at intervals disappear. TREATMENT OF GUTTA SERENA. The most consummate continental surgeons all agree, that this disease, in its curable, and incomplete state, com- monly depends on a morbid irritation of the gastric sys- tem, sometimes being also complicated with general ner- vous debility, in which the eyes participate. - Jleucc, the chief indications in the majority of recent,t ?84 first lines of the incomplete cases, is to empty the stomach and bowels * then to strengthen the tone of the digestive organs, to*£ tiier with that of the whole nervous system ; while, at The same time, sflorts are made to invigorate the action of the nerves of the eye in particular. In the early part of the treatment, emetics and internal resolvents completely answer the purpose. Three grains of the antim. tart, (for an adqlt) are to be dissolved in six ounces of water, and one spoonful of this mixture is to be administered every half hour, until it produces nausea, ■succeeded by copious vomiting. On the following day, Scarpa recommends the exhibition of resolvent powders, composed of an ounce of cream of tartar, and a grain of the'antim. tart., divided into six equal parts, one of which is to be taken in the morning, another four hours after- wards, and a third in the evening, for eight or ten days in succession. These powders will create a little nausea, a few more alvine evacuations than usual, and perhaps, in the course of a few days, vomiting. If, during the use ot these resolvent powders, the pa- tient should make vain efforts to vomit, should complain of bitterness in his mouth, loss of appetite, and no melioraJ ■ lion of his sight, an emetic must be repeated. The latter ' medicine is to be given a third, and even a fourth time, j should the presence of irritating matter in the gastric sys- 1 tem, the bitter taste in the mouth, the tension of the hv-« pochondria, f he acid eructations, and the inclination ia vomit, make it necessary. For, as Scarpa remarks, the first emetic often only produces an evacuation of an aque- ous fluid, blended with a little mucus; but, if it be re- peated a few days after the resolvent powders have been administered, it occasions a discharge of a considerable quantity of yellow greenish matter, with great relief to the stomach, head, and eyes. This part of the treatment having been striofly put intoPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 235 practice,ScUmuckcrV or Richter's,+ resolvent pills are to be ordered. Under this plan the patient sometimes begins to perceive the outlines of objects, the very day on winch he takes the emetic ; at other times lie does not reap this benefit till the fifth, seventh, or tenth day ; and, in some instances, not before some weeks have elapsed after the ex- hibition of the emetic, and the uninterrupted use of the re- solvent powders and pills. , As soon as Hie state of the gastric system has been im- proved in this manner, the surgeon is to prescribe a pow- der composed of Jj of bark, and |fs. of valerian, divided into six equal parts, one of which is to be taken, m any convenient vehicle, every morning and evening. These powders are to be continued, at least, five or six weeks. The diet must consist of nourishing and easily digestible food, with a moderate quantity of wine. I he patient should have, if possible, very good air, and take proper exercise. * ft Gum. sagapen. Galban. > 3a- 3j- Sap. venet. ' Rhei opt. 3 its Antim. tart. gr. xvj. Sue. liq. 3j.—liant pilulas gran, quinque. Three of these pills to be taken every morning and evening, for i month or six weeks. f ft Gum. ammon. Ass. fetid. Sap. venet. Rad. valer. s. p. Summit, arnicas Antim. tart. gr. xviij.—riant pit. gran, quinque. Six i to betaken thrice a day for several weeks. The author has directed the pills to be made larger than the foreign surgeons pre- scribe, as it would seem almost ridiculous in this country to order iii- teen pills to be taken, two or three times a day. as Richter and Scbinucker do on the continent. 1 .sing. 3'J- J286 first lines of the In OK cr to excite the languid nerves „f ,he c g Clneets the fumes of the spirit „f sal amraonJ^ 1 ietl to the organ till a copious secretion of tears and J, ness occur, then the practitioner must desist a lit-!,. I i ruust renew tile application in this times at once, and persevere till the amaurosis is cored e action of the ammoniacal vapours may be aided > o er external stimulants, applied to such parts of the oi y as have a great deal of sympathy with the eyes. Blisters to the nape of the neck ; frictions, with liniments on the eyebrow; sternutatories; and electricity; are the chief auxiliary means. Hie periodical amaurosis docs not derive benefit from bark, as might be expected, unless emetic and resolvent medicines be previously exhibited. icrc are cases of incomplete amaurosis; in the forma- tion of which other causes operate, besides the most fre- quent one already stated : .these demand the employment of particular curative means. Such is the instance which takes place suddenly, in consequence of the body beiim- excessively heated ; exposure to the sun ; and violent an- gci in plethoric subjects. This case requires, above all things, general and topical bleedings, and the application of cold washes to the eye and whole head. Then an eme- tic should be given, and (he patient purged with kali tar- tariz., or small repeated doses of antim. lartaris. In the amaurosis, arising from the suppression of the menses, the first evident indication is to re-establish the evacuation ol blood from the uterus.7 Scarpa directs leeches to the labia pudencl, and bathing the feet in warm water. Ihen an emetic, and the above resolvent pills. If these re- medies fail, this eminent practitioner speaks with great confidence of a stream of electricity, conducted from the loins across the pelvis, and thence repeatedly to the thighs and feet. This is the outline of the most successful practice in thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 2S7 morality of so cl. cases of gullu scrcm as admit of care- The nature of this work will not permit us to piocce tlier into this interesting subject. CHAP. XVIII. CATARACT. WHEN the crystalline lens, or its capsule, is affected -with opacity ; the species of blindness, thence resulting, is denominated a cataract. SYMPTOMS, PROGRESS OF THE DISEASE, &C. This opacity originates, for the most part, gradually, and augments in the same manner. Sometimes, however, the malady makes its appearance suddenly, and in. a very high degree. The first effect of an incipient opacity is a mist before the eyes, surrounding every object, and after- wards gradually increasing so much in density as to ren- der things quite invisible. The opacity, behind the pupil, increases” in proportion as the cloudiness in vision aug- ments. As the lens is thick at its centre, and thin at its edo-e, the incipient opacity, when viewed externally, al- ways seems the greatest in the middle of the pupil; while the circumference of the lens appears like a black ring, surrounding the white nucleus ot the crystalline. Some ray oi light are capable of penetrating the thin margin of the lens in its most opaque state; and hence patients with cataracts are almost always able to distinguish light from darkness; and in the early stage of the complaint discern objects best when these are a little on one side of the axis of vision, and not immediately opposite the eye. Ilencg also such patients see better in a moderate, than a brilliant288 first lines of the light, which makes the pupil contract over the thin cir- cumference of the lens. . different kinds of cataracts. When the opaque lens is either more indurated than in re natural state, or retains a moderate degree of consist, once, the case is termed a firm, or hard cataract. Mr. Pott as ^plained, in lus usual elegant style, that an opaque ns is very rarely firmer than, or even so firm as, a healthy one; and bot li I Ins eminent surgeon and Richter make it ap- pear probable that the harder-a cataract is, the thinner and smaller it becomes. The latter slat*, that a/m cataract nsua y presents cither an ash-colonred, a yellow, or a broumish appearance. The interspace between the cala- ract and pupil is very considerable. The patient very dis- tinclly discerns the light, and can even plainly perceive urge bright objects. In the dilated state of the pupil, a block circle, surrounding the lens, is very perceptible. The motions ol the pupil are free and prompt; and the anterior surface of the cataract appears flat, without the least degree of convexity. When the substance of the lens seems to be converted into a whitish, or other kind of fluid, lodged in the cap- sule, the case is denominated a milky, or fluid cataract. - ccording to Richter, this species of the malady has usually a white appearance, while irregular spots and streaks, different in colour from the rest of the cataract, are often observable on it. These arc apt to change their Jgurc and situation, when frequent and sudden motions of the eyes occur, or when these organs are rubbed or pressed. ie lower half of the pupil seems more opaque, fhanfhe ^ upper one. The crystalline lens, as it loses its firmness, commonly acquires an augmented size. Hence the fluid cataract is thick, and the opacity close behind the pupil. Sometimes one can { erceive no space between the cataract - and margin of the lens. In advanced cases the pupil isPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 2Sg usually very much dilated, and the iris moves very slowly and inertly, in consequence of the cataract touching this membrane, and impeding its action. Patients who ha\e milky cataracts, usually distinguish light from darkness very indistinctly, and sometimes not at all; partly because the cataract, when bulky, lies so closely to the iris, that few, or no rays of light can enter between them into the eye ; and partly because the fluid cataract always assumes a glo- bular form, and consequently has no thin edge, through which the rays of light can penetrate. When the opaque lens is of a middling consistence, neither hard, nor fluid, but about as consistent as a thick jelly or curds, the case is termed a soft, or caseous cata- ract. As the lens softens in this manner, it commonly grows thicker and larger, even acquiring a much greater size than that of the fluid cataract. Hence this species of the malady impedes the motion of the pupil even more consi- derably, than the latter sort of case. , The only other species of the disease necessary to be noticed in this work, is the secondary membranous cataract, which is an opacity of the anterior or posterior layer of the crys- talline capsule, taking place after the lens itself has been removed from this little membranous sac by a preceding operation. All cataracts may be complicated with other diseases of the eyes, chronic ophthalmy, lippitudo, gutta serena, ad- hesion of the opaque lens to the iris, &c. CAUSES, &C. Though persons above the age of forty are reckoned more liable to cataracts than younger ones, the disease is by no means unfrequent in the latter: even children are otlen seen affected w ith this kind of blindness, and some are born with it. Persons exposed to strong fires, as black- u-90 TffiST LINES OE THE smiths, glassmen, &c. are more subject to this affliction than the generality of mankind. But commonly a cata- ract; seems to arise spontaneously, without any assignable cause. In a few instances external violence occasions the opacity of the lens: a case which more frequently than any other gets well without an operation. TREATMENT. Many internal medicines have been exhibited with a view of dispersing opacities of the crystalline lens. None seem to have obtained the confidence of experienced men. The remedies which Mr. Ware has found more effectual than others, are the application of one or two drops of ailher io the eJe ‘'self, once or/wice a day, and the occa- sional rubbing of the eyey over the lid, with the point of the finger, first moistened with a weak volatile, or mercu- rial liniment. Some little attention is requisite to distinguish those cases ot cataract, which afford a reasonable prospect of benefit from an operation. There is always reason to expect success when, in the incipient state of the disease, the patient discerned objects, as it were, through a mist, which, increasing in density, at length became a complete impediment to vision ; when the opacity of the crystalline lens supervened gradually, un- preceded, and unaccompanied by internal ophthalmy; when no particular headach, nor pains in the eye and eye- brow have been experienced ; when the pupil preserves its circular figure, and the faculty of varying its dimensions in the different degrees of light; when the patient can distin- guish light from darkness ; and especially when' in a mo- derate light, where the pupil is usually not too much con- tracted, lie is able to discern bright colours, and the out- lines of objects. A case answering this description is the most favourablel’Ulle VI. I'liKrhrit4/>rjl tjtittJ &?■ JLFhiUifi*, JJntfyt Str**t,Rkuk/yuw, Lenjan tecp-r sculflPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 291 one; but almost any case unattended "with gutta screna; may derive benefit from an operation, and no serious harm can ever result trom the attempt* Cataracts are usually cured, either by removing the opaque lens from the axis of vision by means of a needle; or by extracting the lens from the eye, through a semicir- cular incision made at the lower part of the cornea. The first operation is termed couching, or depression, of the ca- taract; the second is named extraction. Each method has its advocates ; and as I have given a detail of the argu- ments in favour of couching in another publication,* I shall only premise a description of this operation by stating, that it is applicable to every species of the malady ; that it produces subsequent symptoms far less severe and danger- ous than those which frequently happen after extraction; that it may be successfully repeated when any incidental circumstance has rendered the primary attempts fruitless ; that it is much the most easy operation of the two ; that it is not so liable as extraction to be followed by the secondary membranous cataract; and that Pott, Callisen, Lucas, Scarpa, Hey, Latta, and many other eminent and unbi- assed surgeons have given it the preference. DESCRIPTION OF COUCHING, OR DEPRESSION OF THE CATARACT. The best needle is the one which Scarpa employs,t or else that used by Mr. Hey.^ If the curved couching needle is made use of, it is to be held with the convexity of its cur- vature forward, its point backward, and its handle parallel to the patient’s temple. The surgeon having directed the * Critical Reflections on several important practical Points relative to the Cataract. 1805.—Published by Longman and Co. f See Plate VI. fig. 1. The part between the handle and the dotted line m'ay be advantageously deducted from its length. t See Plate VI. fig. 2, 3, 4. The two last are magnified views. TjOFIRST LINES OF TF1E 292 t. i patient to turn (lieeye towards the nose, is to introduce the instrument boldly through the sclerotic coat, at the dis- tance of not less than two lines from the margin of the cor- nea, in order to avoid the ciliary processes. 1 he exact place where the point of the needle should next be guided, is between the cataract and ciliary pro- cesses, in trout of the opaque lens and its capsule; but as the attempt to hit this delicate invisible mark borders upon impossibility, and might even endanger the iris, it seems satcr to direct the extremity of the instrument immediately over the opaque lens, and, in the fifst instance, to depress it a little downward with the convex flat surface of the end of the needle. -Thus room is made for the safe conveyance of the instrument between the cataract and ciliary processes, in front of the diseased crystalline and its capsule. Care must be taken, in this latter step of the operation, to keep the marked side of the handle forward, so as to have the point of the instrument turned away from the iris. The needle will now' be visible in the pupil, and its point is to- be pushed in a transverse direction as far as the inner edge of the lens. Then the operaor is to incline the handle of the instrument towards himself, by which means its point will bo diiected through the capsule into the substance of the opaque lens; and on inclining the needle downward and backward, the former will be lacerated, and conveyed with the latter deeply into the vitreous humour. It is deemed of great importance to lacerate the front layer of the capsule in the operation ; for this plan renders the absorption ot the opaque lens more certain and quick afterwards, and the occurrence of a secondary membranous cataract almost im possi ble. Such is Scarpa’s excellent plan of operating for a Jinn cataract. W hen the case is a fluid, or milky one, the contents of the capsule flow out as soon as the little membranous sac is pierced with the needle, and they sometimes completelyPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 293 conceal the iris, the pupil, and the instrument, from ihe operator’s view. The object now is to lacerate the capsule as much as possible. Both the fragments and the extra- vasation of the milky fluid in the two chambers of the aqueous humour are regularly absorbed after the opera- tion, so as to leave the eye in a transparent state. When the cataract is soft, the particles of which it is composed will frequently elude all efforts made with the needle to depress them. This, however, is quite unneces- sary. The operator may either be content with a tree la- ceration, and disturbance of them, or he may imitate Scarpa in pushing the fragments of the capsule, and the particles of caseous matter, into the anterior chamber. In this cavity absorption seems to be carried on with more a i- gour than behind the pupil. When the cataract is a secondary membranous one, the surgeon is to turn the point of the needle cautiously to- wards the pupil, and pierce the opaque capsule. I his is to be broken, as far as it is practicable, at every point ot its circumference; and the fragments may either be left in their situation, or pushed forward, through the pupil, into the anterior chamber, in t he way whicli Scarpa practises. When the capsule is adherent to the iris, it may often be separated by skilful and delicate movements of the needle. If the operator should prefer the straight needle, lie must be careful to depress (he cataract a little in the first instance, before making any attempt to place the instru- ment in front of the cataract, in order to be able to depress it, downward and backward, in the most convenient man- ner. As the point of a curved needle is turned backward, it may evidently be brought forward with more safety than a straight one, which has a tendency to rua directly against the iris. Whenever an operator prefers lacerating the front layer of the capsule, and pushing the particles of soft and membranous cataracts forward, he will accom-294 first lines of the plish his objects with far greater safety by means of Scar* pa s needle than it is possible to effect with a straight one, provided / e is well acquainted with the anatomy of the eye’ tfle scientific mode of using the instrument, and has a tolerably steady hand, and good eye of his own, DESCRIPTION OF EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT. Baron Wenzel s knife for dividing the cornea is repre- senfed, plate VI., fig. 5. A, the back of the blade; B, its edge; C, a mark on the handle to- distinguish (he back from the edge of the blade. Mr. M are employs a knife which bears a great resemblance to Wenzel’s, and chiefly differs from it in being less spear-pointed. The lower edge of Wenzel’s knife is sharp throughout its whole length; but the upper edge, though thin, is not sharp, except to the extent of one-eighth of an inch from the point. Every knife designed for dividing the cornea, should be so con- structed as to increase gradually in thickness from the point to the handle ; by which means, as Mr. Ware ob- serves, the aqueous humour will be prevented from esca- ping before the section is begun downwards. M’hen the aqueous humour escapes prematurely, (he iris falls forward beneath the edge of the knife, and is apt to be wounded. The instrument should, therefore, be so contrived, that not a particle of this fluid can escape from the eye before the lower part of the cornea is completely divided. The patient is to sit in a low chair, and not in too strong a light, as this makes the pupil contract too much. The sound eye is to be covered with a compress. Both these directions are equally applicable to couching. The sur- geon is to raise the upper eyelid wi b the forefinger of the hand not occupied with the knife, and he is to press the tarsus against the upper edge of the orbit. The operator should be seated a little higher than the patient, resting his right foot on a stool, in order that his knee may be raised high enough to support the elbow. The knife is to be heldPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 29? like a writing pen, and the little finger of the hand is to rest steadily on the outside of the check. When the eye is still, and so turned towards the outer angle, that the inner and inferior part of the cornea can be distinctly seen, the operator is to plunge the knife into the upper ar.d outer part of (his tunic, at the distance ot a quarter of a line from the sclerotica, and a little above the transverse diameter ot the cornea. Baron Wenzel objects to making the least pressure on the eye. However, Mr. Ware has so often perceived the ill effects of leaving the eye unfixed at the time ot making the incision through the cornea, that he has successfully adopted in practice the plan ot employing pressure just at the instant when the knife is carried across the cornea, taking care to remove it before any attempt is made to di- vide this tunic downward. The first process ot the inci- sion Mr. Ware calls punctuation; the second, secl?>n ot the cornea, fie directs the operator to place the fore and middle finger of the hand, not used in holding the knife, upon the tunica conjunctiva, just below, and a little on the inside of the cornea. At the same time the assistant is to apply one, or if the eye projects sufficiently, two of his fin- gers upon the conjunctiva, a little on the inside of, and above, the cornea. The fingers of the operator and assist- ant, thus opposed to each other, will fix the eye, arid pre- vent the lids from chising. The knife is to be pushed through the cornea slowly and steadily, without the least intermis&i n. When about one-third of the blade of Mr. Ware’s knife has emerged from the inner part of the cor- nea, near its margin, the punctuation is completed. ,The broad part of the blade is now between the cornea and iris, and its edge below the pupil, so that the latter mem- brane is then, according to Mr. Ware, out of all danger of being wounded. Every degree of pressure must now be taken off the globe of the eye, and consequently the fin- gers both of the operator and his assistant are instantly to296 FIRST LINES OF TIIE be removed from tins pari, and applied only against the eyelids. I lie blade of the knife is now to be pressed slowly down- ward till it lias cut its way out, and divided a little more than half of the circle of the cornea. Though Mr. Ware considers the iris out of danger as soon as the knife has completed what he terms punctua- tion, the authority of Richter, who has had immense expe- rience in this branch of surgery, might be adduced to prove the contrary; and that if the aqueous humour be allowed to escape before the edge of the knife has begun to divide the lower lamina; of the cornea, the iris is still apt to fall for- ward, and be cut. Hence the author of the present volume requests the reader to be very particular in employing a knife which will regularly, as it is introduced, till the wound; which has a blade broad enough to divide the lower part of the cornea before its point has approached too near the * hose; and, lastly, which will effect this object by being merely pressed in a transverse direction, and without any previous escape of the aqueous humour. The incision of the cornea being accomplished, the next object is to divide the anterior layer of the capsule of the crystalline lens, in order to allow the opaque lens itself to escape. Wenzel, who, no doubt, was a man of uncom- mon dexterity, used to puncture the capsule with the point of the knife, at the same time that he was dividing the cornea. Mr. Ware has very properly discouraged this method, by stating that it is rather a work of dexterity than usefulness, and is ofen attended with much hazard of wounding the iris. Even the adroit Baron himself found it necessary, in particular cases, to divide the cornea first, and then open the capsule with a gold needle, made for the purpose. ' . Ihe exit of the opaque lens, in general, very readily fol- lows the division ot its capsule, on very gentle pressure be- ing made on the eye. If any fragments of opaque matterPRACTICE OF SURGER’'i. 297 remain behind, they are usually taken away by an instru- ment resembling a very minute spoon, termed a curdle. A very small pair of forceps is commonly employed for extracting tire capsule itself, when deprived of its natural transparency. CHAP. XIX. RANULA. ' THIS is a tumour arising from a distention of the sali- vary duct underneath the tongue, and from an accumula- tion of the saliva in the dilated part. 1 he cause ot this malady is probably owing to a stoppage of the orifice of the salivary duct. The swelling is usually situated on one side of the freemum linguaj, and particularly when it is large, sometimes extends under the apex of the tongue. The tumour consists of a sac, which is composed of the di- lated portion of the duct, and is either filled with clear sa- liva, a purulent fluid, or an earthy substance. Its size va- ries considerably in different cases, from that of a pea to that of a hen’s egg. It may become so very large, and ele- vate the tongue so much, that deglutition and respiration are greatly obstructed, and its pressure may even render the lower jaw-bone carious. Some swellings of this kind have been known to contain a pint of matter. Sometimes ranulce arc quite free from pain ; in some in- stances they are very painful, when the tongue is moved ; and in others they are in an inflamed state. Encysted tumours arc liable to form under the tongue, and cannot easily be distinguished from ranulce ; but this is of no importance, as the same plan of treatment is appli- cable to both diseases.FIRST LINES OF THE 298 " a”"te 1,aTe '"'“me as large as a nut, they com. ,-b“ S|X,nti,neo'1,7- The ulcerated opening, ilow_ ever does not heal, being kept from doing so bv f he con i- nua cslt matter from (he cuvitj- of the sac. TREATMENT7. From what has been stated it might be inferred, I hat the cysts of tiiese swellings ought to be dissected out, in the saibe maimer as those of encysted tumours. This is not exactly the case. If the surgeon were to endeavour to take out the whole sac, he could hardly avoid wound!,m <jie ramnal artery, the hemorrhage from which might prove excessively troublesome, and even fatal. Practitioners in this country are, in general, content ■wnh laying open the tumour from one end to the other ; squeezing out its contents; and removing every particle of calcareous matter that can be felt within the wound. Fo- reign surgeons, after opening the tumour in this manner, very frequently cut away the whole anterior portion of the sac with scissars, and even attempt the destruction of the rest by applying caustics to it. W hen the substance of a tumour beneath the tongue is fat, as soon as the surgeon has ascertained the nature of the case by an incision, his best plan is to take hold of the tu- mour with a hook, draw it forward, and carefully take it ■ out, by detaching it from the surrounding parts in front vitli a bistoury; and breaking the connexion, on the side towards the raninal artery, with his fingers. This may be safely and easily done, It there should be much bleeding after either of the ope- rations above mentioned, it may be stopped by pressing some lint into the wound. When this plan does not an- swer, the patient must first wash his mouth with brandy, and then press a dossil of lint on (lie wound again. No dressings can be conveniently kept on the wound jPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 29» and til ft surgeon need only cause the part to be washed very frequently, by means of a syringe. Sometimes calcareous concretions form in tire salivary ducts when there is no evident swelling ; and they are a,,t to occasion pain and uneasiness under the tongue. In some instances the calculus projects from tire orifice of one of the ducts into the mouth, and admits of being drawn out will, a pair of forceps. In others it is necessary to make an in- cision, for the purpose of extracting (ho extraneous sub- stance • The French surgeons, Desault and Chopart, have pro- posed introducing a small probe into the obstructed orifice of the salivary duct, in cases of rarnhe, with a view ot rendering the tube pervious again, and thus curing t ne dis- ease. This plan can only be expected to succeed in very recent cases; and the introduction of an instrument into the duct, when closed, is by no means a very easy thing. ciiap. xx. DIVISION OF THE FLl/ENUM LING LEE. I THE preternatural confinement of the apex of the tongue may arise from two causes; viz. the freeman may extend too far forward, to the very extreme point of the tongue; or it may not be of sufficient length to allow the tongue to be duly elevated from the bofiom of the mouth. The first malformation is the most common; but both kinds impede the motion of the tip ot ilie tongue, prevent children from sucking, and cause an incapacity ot articu- lating sounds in the proper manner. Hence the freeman linguee of persons born dumb should always be examined. As this defect pi the formation of the freeman is supposedFIRST LINES OF THE SCO hy the generality of persons to be an exceedingly common one, and the operation for its relief, is not totally exempt rom danger, it is highly necessary for every surgeon to now that, in infants, an incapacity to suck, in conse- quence of the evidently immoveable state of the ton<me caused by the above defects, forms the only just ground lor dividing the freeman. Ilence, before performing an operation, the surgeon s oukl not be satisfied with merely hearing that a child cannot suck; as this incapacity may be owing to other causes, particularly the large size of the nurse’s nipple adhesions of the sides of the tongue to the inside of the mouth, &c. The practitioner ought to examine with his eyeS whether the frcenum extends to the apex of the tongue m an undue manner: a thing most easily ascertained, "as, in the natural state, about a quarter of an inch of the un- der surface of the tongue, from the apex backward, re- mains quite unconnected with the frcenum. When this part ties the tongue too closely to the bottom of the mouth, by reason of its shortness, the surgeon cannot raise the tongue towards the palate even with his own fingers. The operation consists in dividing the frcenum, as far as seems necessary; and it is so simple, as to require no par- ticular explanation. Tire best instrument for performing it is a pair of sharp scissars with blunt points. No more of the frcenum ought to be divided than is essential to the object in view; and pointed instruments should never lie employed. The situation of the raninal arteries renders this inculcation of the highest importance; for many chil- dren have lost their lives by these vessels having been un- skilfully wounded by careless or ignorant operators.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 301 CHAP. XXI. DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. ULCERS on the tongue, of a very painful, obstinate, and malignant-looking nature, are sometimes produced by the sharp, or rough, edge of a tooth. This mechanical kind of cause is easily detected, on examination with the finger. If the tooth be sound, the projection, or rough- ness, must be filed off; if it be carious, the best plan is to extract it. When these objects are accomplished, the sore usually heals without further trouble. Very obstinate ulcers originate on the tongue, which may be cured by a long perseverance in the use of the anlim. tart., exhibited alternately in small doses, and then in larger ones, so as to excite vomiting. Ulcers deserving the epithets malignant and cancerous, not unfrequently form on the tongue. Sometimes the ma- lady, in its most incipient state, appears as a sore. Some- times a circumscribed moveable, or immoveable scirrhous swelling is first pbservable, which gradually becomes pain- ful, and id cerates. In some instances there is, in the be- ginning, only an induration in the substance of the tongue, without the smallest appearance of any swelling. The ul- cers, under consideration, are always surrounded by hard- ness. Sometimes they first make their appearance at the edges; sometimes at the apex of the tongue. In some cases the w hole, or a large portion, of this organ is cover- ed with numerous small scirrhous tubercles, w hich gradu- ally fall into a state of ulceration. These I have seen greatly diminished by a gentle course of mercury. All the medicines tried in other cases of cancer may be exlii-30* first Lines of the bited in tlie present ones; but, on the whole, the timely employment of the knife merits the most confidence. Ihe following' kinds of cases have, however, yielded tit particular remedies. A malignant exceedingly painful ulcer in the tongue, sunounded with a good deal of inflammatorv hardness, has been cured by the continued internal use of opium! The dose is to be gradually augmented ; patients are stated to have taken, at last, eighteen grains in one day. One species of malignant ulcer yields to the long conti- nued exhibition of tartar emetic. The doses musT be in- creased, in proportion to the time which elapses from the first taking of the medicine. ^ ery malignant and unyielding sores on the tongue are said to have been cured by repeatedly applying leeches to the undersurface of this organ., It would be inexcusable to pass over in silence such ill- conditioned ulcers of the tongue as originate during vio- lent salivations. Sometimes similar sores, produced by the same cause, take place, at the same time, on the ton- sils; and, in this circumstance, inexperienced surgeons, or mistaken practitioners, who are blinded with the fear of syphilis, are very apt to suppose the sores to be venereal ones. This error leads to the freer use of mercury: the sores frequently slough ; and the patient’s health becoming greatly deranged, he is thrown into a state of great peril. In this case it is hardly necessary to observe, that the use of mercury must be immediately omitted, and the mouth washed very frequently with a solution of alum. Violent inflammations, followed by ulcerations of this sort, are particularly apt to occur when patients, under the influence of mercury, catch cold. The removal of a cancerous portion of the tongue seems to need no particular description. A bistoury is the best instrument for the purpose; and the patient’s mouthPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 303 should be kept open by something interposed between the teeth. The hemorrhage is the most troublesome circum- stance ; but we have instances related of the anterior half of the tongue being amputated, and of the bleeding being easily suppressed, either by ordinary styptics, or the actual cautery. 1 think a tolerably dextrous man might tie the mouth of an artery in this situation, with the assistance of two pair of forceps to draw theends of the ligature, when the noose has been put over the tenaculum, round the bleeding point. Certainly, cancerous diseases of the tongue may have advanced to such a degree, that an operation cannot be prudently undertaken. The bleeding would be a se- rious objection ; and the contaminated state of the adja- cent lymphatic glands, below the jaw, usually existing in this advanced state of the malady, would render a radical cure quite impracticable. t JhJ’fc Ajilh f>'.x v/ ' !aJ*~ ** ' * XX^r> i CHAP. XXII. DISEASES OF THE TONSILS AND UVULA. THE tonsils are very liable to inflame; and sometimes the swelling thus produced is so great as to obstruct deglu- tition and respiration in a very dangerous degree. Prompt succour is now very urgently required ; and relief is com- monly obtained by scarifying the enlarged tonsils, and promoting the bleeding by warm gargles. This operation may be done with an ordinary lancet, or with one contained in a sheath, and constructed so that its point can only be pushed out to a proper distance. Pha- ri/ngotomus is the name usually applied to this instrument. Abscesses in the tonsils are, also, to be opened, when the swelling causes considerable inconvenience.> FIRST LINES OF THE 304 1 he tonsils sometimes become enlarged, without being inflamed. This swelling is improperly termed scirrlius. The glands are only swollen, and of moderate firmness. A portion ol such an enlarged tonsil may be cut off, without the least danger-of the rest assuming a malignant nature.- This preternatural swelling of the tonsils is mostly owing to repeated inflammations. Sometimes there is no palpable cause. The malady is constantly free from pain. When the tumefaction is considerable, it obstructs the speech, deglutition, and respiration. Biscutient and astringent applications prove ineffectual. Tiie tumour must be diminished by a surgical operation. But it is unnecessary and improper to remove the whole tonsil. A dangerous hemorrhage might be the consequence. Only so much of the swelling should be taken away as is sufficient to afford relief. The remaining portion commonly heals without the least difficulty: a clear proof that the disease is not of a malignant or cancerous nature. I he extirpation of part of a tonsil thus diseased has been . accomplished by caustics, the actual cautery, the ligature, and cutting instruments. The first is now quite abandon- ed, and the second also, as no modern surgeons employ it, except now and then, with a view of destroying fun- gous excrescences, which, in a few instances, originate after a part of the tumour lias been removed by some other operation. Some very good surgeons still prefer tying diseased ton- sils to cutting them away, and the mode to be adopted differs according as the swelling has a narrow or broad base. The ligature ought to be made of silver wire, or catgut. When the tumour has a narrow neck the liga- tuie is to be doubled and introduced through the nostril, so that the noose becomes visible in the throat. With the aid of a pair of forceps, the noose may then be easily placed round the neck of the tumour. The ends of the ligature arc then to be brought through a double cannula, and the305 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. latter instrument introduced as far as the tonsil; a he li- gature on each side is then to be drawn tightly, and fastened round rings at the end of the cannula. The instru- ment may next be twisted till a due degree of constriction is produced. When the base of the tumour is broad, Cheselden’s plan of introducing adouble ligature through the swelling, and tying One portion over each half of the base, need only be mentioned, as no practical surgeons are now likely to adopt the method. We have already observed, that the removal of the whole enlarged tonsil is unnecessary, and therefore injudicious. We may now notice, that a portion of the tumour may be cut away without any just ground for fearing a dangerous bleeding. The application of a ligature occasionally produces a very perilous degree of swelling of the diseased tonsil. Bertrandi, and many other eminent surgeons, have been in the habit of cutting aw-ay enlarged tonsils, without ever meeting with an instance of danger from the subse- quent bleeding. The operation may be done with a pair of scissars, con- structed with short blades and long handles ; or it may be performed with a bistoury, which, in general, must be the best instrument. The hemorrhage may usually be stopped by washing the mouth repeatedly with very cold water. When the enlargement of the tonsil is really of a scir- rhous nature, an operation, performed so as to remove only a part of the indurated enlargement, would not be followed by success. Calculous concretions have been known to form in the tonsils, and occasion troublesome coughing, sore throats, See. The propriety of extracting them, when their exist- ence is clearly ascertained, is almost too obvious to require being mentioned. xFIRST LINES OF THE .306 EXTIRPATION OF A PART OF THE UVULA. When the uvula is permanently elongated, so as to in- terrupt swallowing, and occasion uneasiness in the throat, coughing, vomiting, &c. it is proper to remove the reduiv dant part. Slight relaxations of the uvula may generally be cured by astringent gargles, composed of the infusion of roses, alum, tincture of bark, &c. When the inconvenience is not removed bj' such means, the superfluous portion of the uvula must be cut off with a pair of sharp scissars.* The fear of hemorrhage, and the recommendation of the liga- ture in these cases, still introduced in very modern surgical books, are almcfct absurd. CHAP. XXIII. WOUNDS OF THE NECK. WOUNDS, in which only the skin and muscles are con- cerned, require the same kind of treatment, as similar wounds in other situations. WOUNDS OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. ' I - •‘ These commonly prove immediately fatal from loss of blood before any assistance can be obtained. If a sur- geon should arrive in time to render aid, there is no alter- * A pair of scissars, constructed like those represented in plate 7, fig. 1, seem well adapted to this operation, as the transverse extremity of one of the blades can be put behind the uvula, and prevent its slip.- ping away, without being completely divided.Plate VJ1.PRACTICE OF SURGEtlY. 30? native, and applying a ligature both below and above the wound, is the onlystep that affords the smallest chance of preserving life, In passing the ligatures beneath the vessel, great caution is requisite; for the eighth pair of nerves lie close to it, included in the same sheath of cellu- lar substance. The situation of this nerve is on the out- side of the artery, between it and the jugular vein. In- cluding it in a ligature with the artery would alone be an adequate cause of death. Whether suddenly tying the trunk of the carotid ar- tery vould produce any bad effect on the brain is un- known. I have seen it tied by Mr. Abernethy in are- markable case, which that gentleman has related in a pub- lication,* to which I beg leave to refer the reader. No apparent derangement in the functions of the brain ensued for several hours after the ligature was applied. But the patient afterwards relapsed into a state, similar to that of a person who has suffered concussion of the brain, and he died on the following morning. However, in the case there were particular circumstances, from which dif- ferent persons might draw different conclusions, with re- gard to the cause of the brain being affected. 1 lie narra- tive of the case, in Mr. Abernethy’s own words, is highly deserving of attention. This excellent surgeon recommends, as I mentioned be- fore in the chapter on Aneurisms, a very safe method of passing a ligature beneath the trunk of the carotid, incase of necessity. An incision is to be made on that side of the artery, which is next to the trachea, where no important parts can be injured, and where the finger can be intro- duced under the vessel so as to compress it. An aneurism needle is then to be passed with a ligature behind the ar- tery, and Us eye-part is to be brought up as cjose as pos- * Surgical Observations. 18Q4.first lines OF THE - '308 6.ble to that edge of the vessel which is next to the internal Jugular vc,ti. In this way there can be no risk of wound- mg the latter considerable vessel, nor of tying the eighth pair of nerves. ° a 1 he primary brandies of the external carotid, viz. the ex rnal maxillary, the lingual, and the thyroideal arte- ries, are the most frequently injured in wounds of the neck. 1 ersons, who attempt to commit suicide, usually make ieir incision too high toendanger the carotid artery. WOUNDS OF THE TRACHEA. Wonnds of,!hal part of the trachea which is within the chest are sometimes followed by emphysema, arising from he diffusion of a,r through the adjoining cellular subs- ance. uch -wounds are also very dangerous, because they arc of the punctured kind, and generally injur, other important parts at the same time. Wounds of the larynx commonly produce more irrita- tion than those of the trachea. A convulsive cough is par- ticularly often attendant, on them, in fact the larynx is a much more sensible part than the windpipe. W ounds above the os hy aides penetrate the mouth, and are usually attended with profuse hemorrhage. Air, sa- liva, and victuals, arc apt to be discharged from them. In most cases, wounds of the thyroid cartilage heal veiy favourably, unless other parts ol consequence are also injured. Transverse wounds of the upper part of the trachea ge- nerally do well, when only its anterior half is divided. Such injuries generally leave nerves and vessels of conse- quence untouched. Loss of the voice ; the entrance and <*xit ot air through the wound ; and sometimes an emphy- sematous swelling of the integuments ; are the speedy con- sequences ot the injury. „ Wounds of this description, made by gunshot violence, are more dangerous ; but even these not unirequeutly terminate well.309 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. Transverse wounds of the trachea, which have not di- vided it completely through, may, in most instances, he cured by the strict observance of a proper position. By bringing the patient’s chin downward and forward to the sternum, and maintaining the head in this posture by the support of pillows, the edges of the wound in the trachea may be placed, and kept in contact until they have grown together. The manner in which sutures aggravate the cough, and inflame the wound, often necessitates the surgeon to with- draw them when they have been employed. Besides the irritation, which, as extraneous bodies, they Create in the trachea, they arc, to say the best of them, in general ver> unnecessary. Nothing prevents a wound of the trachea from uniting more than the disturbance ot a convulsive cough, and the irritation of sutures always increases this hurtful symptom in a much greater degree than they do good by maintaining the edges of the wound in contact. In fact, when the whole trachea is not completely divided, there never can be such a space between the edges ot the wound, that they cannot be brought into contact by the assistance of a proper posture. When the troublesome cough seems be ow ing to an in- flammatory state of the wound, the complaint may be mi- tigated by bldeding and soo -dug remedies. In cases where there does not appear to be any particular local ir- ritation to account for the violent coughing, lluv almond emulsion, spermaceti mixture, and opium, may be given with beneficial effect. To prevent the entrance of (he discharge and blood into the trachea, it has been directed to make the patient lie on his side instead of his back. However, nothing prevents these occurrences more, than keeping the edges ot Ihe wound accurately in contact, and the patient’s head may be much more steadily supported forward, when he lies ou his back, than when be is ou his side.FIRST LINES OF THE , 310 The hoarseness and weakness of die voice, sometimes re, maining. after the wound is healed, often disap. ears in a gradual manner. Surgical writers are certainly right when they inculcate, that the patient should refrain from making forcible ex- pirations, and drawing the head suddenly backward, fora certain time after the wound is healed. By such causes the recent coalescence of the wound may be easily de- stroyed. W hen a wound has detached the upper portion of the trachea from the lower one, and it is not immediately fatal by the injury of other important parts, the bleeding vessels are first to be tied, and the two ends are then to be brought into contact. In this sort of case I think that the employment of a suture is warrantable, on account of the immense separation of the divided parts, and the inef- ficacy of position alone to prevent it. A flat broadish li- gature should be employed, and the needle should not be introduced through the lining of the trachea. One stitch i-> quite enough, when the chin is kept properly approxi- mated to the breast. W ounds, made by bullets in the front of the trachea, have been known to terminate well. M. Kavaton men- tions instances, which were followed by a recovery of the voice. Sutures are not applicable to these cases. A strict adop- tionnfthe position recommended above, and the applica- tion of an emollient poultice, contained in a fine linen bag, aie the chief local chirurgical measures. Bleeding, and antiphlogistic remedies ot every description, will also be generally proper, WOUNns op THE OESOPHAGUS. A total division of the oesophagus may be considered as fatal. Ihe inevitable injury of other important parts, at the same time, would render such a case at once mortal.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 311 Hie celebrated Prussian surgeon, Schmucker, lias treated small wounds of the pharynx, and upper part of the oeso- phagus with success. In the Memoirs of the French Aca- demy of Surgery, wounds dividing half, or even two-thirds of the tube, arc stated to have been cured. The possibility and impossibility of a cure must obviously depend on what other parts of consequence are injured. Incised wounds, which divide the front of the oesopha- gus, must derive additional danger from the simultaneous division of the whole circle of the trachea. A punctured wound, penetrating the side of the oesophagus, may not be complicated with injury of the trachea, and therefore may not be attended with so much peril. Such stabs, however, though not regularly mortal, arc always alarming cases. When the trachea is at the same time divided, the sur- geon may diminish the space between the edges of Un- wound in the oesophagus, by approximating the divided portions of the trachea. This effect must result from 1 he manner in which the posterior part ot the windpipe is con- nected with the oesophagus. But for this purpose a su- ture is only to be used, in such a state of the wounded trachea, as has been already mentioned, and, in all othei cases, a proper position of the head, and the use ot adhesive plaster to the external wound, are the means with which the surgeon must be content. In cases of wounds ot the oesophagus, it was recommend- ed as long since as the time ot Itavatou, to inject nourishment, and medicines into the stomach, through a smooth tube of a suitable size, introduced down the passage. In Desault’s journal it is shewn, that a tube of this kind may be passed through one of the nostrils, down the oesophagus, where it may be advantageously allowed to remain several days tor the above purpose. We read in the transactions of a society for the promo- tion of medical and chimrgical knowledge, that Hunter introduced down the oesophagus, with the aid of a w haleboneFIRST LINES OF THE 312 probang, a small fresh eel skin, through which nourishment was injected with the utmost convenience. A small hollow bougie, or elastic gum catheter, is what is now most commonly preferred. The great utility of this plan of conveying food into the stomach ought not to be limited to wounds of the oesophagus. As deglutition is necessarily attended with elevation and depression of the trachea, the bad effect Avlnch it must produce on all wounds of this tube, is so o ivious, that it should always be prevented. Milk, fluid jellies, and broths, by way of nourishment, should be in- jcctcd through a hollow bougie down the oesophagus. I oelievc Mr. Abernethy is entitled to.The honour of hav- ing first recommended this practice to be followed ii> • wounds of the trachea, as well as those of the cesophagus. CHAP. XXIV, FOREIGN BODIES IN THE CESOPHAGUS. FOREIGN bodies, which ought to be extracted from the oesophagus, when possible, are such as might create bad symptoms, if pushed downward into the stomach, in con- sequence of their hardness, indissolubility, pointed angu- lar shape, or other hurtful qualities. Such foreign bodies, on the other hand, as will produce no harm when in the alimentary canal, and are capable of being digested, may at once be pushed down into the stomach. Foreign bodies most frequently lodge about the upper or lower orifice of The oesophagus ; seldom in the middle por- tion of this tube. When they are low down the surgeon is often obliged, contrarily to his wishes, to force them into the stomach, even though they are of such a quality thatPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 313 their extraction would be very desirable. The foreign body is mostly situated above in the pharynx. Hence it is an important rule always to press down the tongue, and examine the back of the throat, before doing any thing else. Thus substances may frequently be discovered, and extracted with the fingers, or forceps, when from the patient’s account one would conjecture, that they had de- scended much further. Substances, which lodge in consequence of their size, cannot easily be extracted, because they fill the whole dia- meter of the oesophagus, and prevent the introduction of any instrument. Though in the majority of cases it is far better to extract, than push down extraneous substances, of what kind soever they may be; yet it is commonly much more difficult, and the surgeon is often necessitated to follow the latter method. When a foreign body is situated about the upper orifice of the oesophagus, it may very often be felt by the surgeon’s finger, and, if incapable of being removed in this manner, it may commonly be extracted by means of a pair of curved forceps. One of the most common instruments for extracting things from the oesophagus, is a kind of hook. This is best constructed of strong flexible wire, doubled, and twisted to- gether, in such a manner, that the bent end forms a noose, of the shape of a hook. * ^ Very small bodies, such as needles, fish-bones, &c. arc generally more easily extracted with a piece of sponge introduced beyond them. The art of employing compress- ed sponge, in the most advantageous manner, consists in taking a piece about the size of a chesnut, and introducing each end ofa strong ligature through it. The ends of the ligature are then to be passed through a tubc,+ anrl fasten- ed to that end of the instrument which the surgeon holds. • Plate 7, fig. f Plate 7, fig. 3.FIRST LINES OF THE 314 The sponge is then to be introduced down the oesophagus beyond the foreign body, and water is to be injected through the tube, in order to moisten the sponge and make it expand. After tliis the ends of the ligaturearc to be firmly drawn, for the purpose oi pressing the sponge against the extre- mity of the cannula to make it expand still more. Then the tube is to be withdrawn, together with The sponge* observing to twist the instrument to the right and left, in this part of the operation. When the foreign substance cannot be extracted with this instrument, a probang may be tried, to the end of which a bunch of thread, doubled so as to make an im- mense number of nooses, is fastened. Little bodies may frequently become entangled, and be extracted in this way, when the other one fails. Some practitioners are in the habit of giving emetics ; but this practiceis very improper when the foreign body is angular or pointed, and is seldom of much use in any case, as patients usually' make eflbrls to vomit of their own accord. When foreign bodies in the oesophagus produce urgent sym.pt°ms,aml cannot be extracted, it becomes necessary to push the extraneous substances into (lie stomach, let them be of any kind whatsoever. The surgeon may the more readily adopt this plan, as experience shews, that such bodies, as one would imagine likely to produce very alarm- ing symptoms, when pushed into the stomach, very often occasion no dangerous symptoms, and even not the smallest inconvenience. A whalebone probang is the common and most convenient instrument for forcing substances down the oesophagus into the sfomaoh. When foreign bodies in the oesophagus can neither be extracted, nor pushed downward, the consequences are various. Sometimes the patient is soon suffocated. In other instances, inflammation and sloughing take place inPRACTICE OF SUkGERY. 315 tlie oesophagus, and occasionally febrile and convulsive symptoms come on. The consequences, however, are not invariably dangerous. Foreign bodies, especially when small anil pointed, very frequently excite suppuration, after which they become loose, and are eitlier carried into the stomach or rejected from the mouth. Sometimes they make their way towards the surface of the neck, occa- sioning abscesses there, out of which they may be ex- tracted. In some instances foreign bodies, especially such as needles, after making their way through the oesophagus, travel a great way about the body, and at length make their appearance at the surface of remote parts, behind the cars, at the shoulders, feet, &c. where they occasion au abscess, which leads to their discovery and extraction. In the memoirs of the Academy of Surgery, we have an ex- ample of a needle, which was swallowed, remaining in the body eighteen years before it made its appearance extei- nally. ^During most of the above space, not the slighest inconvenience was experienced. I think it superfluous to describe in this work oesopha- gotomy, an operation which few would ever venture to perform. By this remark, I do not mean, however, to assert that a case might not occur, in which a surgeon ought to make the attempt, especially when the foreign body is large, like an apple, and its situation is not too low- down.FIRST LINES OF TIIE CHAP. xxv. tracheotom y. THIS operation is performed for various purpose* ; 1st, 115 orc^er to bc able <0 lnfiafe the lungs, in cases of suffoca- tion,.drowning, &c. ; 2dly, to make an artificial opening, through which respiration may be carried on, when the natural passage for the air through the mouth and nose is so obstructed, that the patient is threatened with suffo- cation ; 3dly, tracheotomy is practised for extracting foreign bodies, which have accidentally fallen into the. trachea. It is proper to distend the lungs with air, in all cases where animation has been recently suspended by immer- sion under water, or by noxious vapours. This measure is highly proper in conjunction with electricity, the com- munication of caloric to the body, the application of strong volatiles to the nostrils, and the injection of some such beverage, ns warm wane into the stomach, by means of a liollow bougie. From the manner in which the epi- glottis covers the top of the larynx, it is obviously very inconvenient to make any attempt to introduce the muzzle of a pair of bellows into the rima ,g!ottidis frven though the pipe be curved). It is much better to have recourse at once to a very safe and simple operation, which con- sists in making an opening into the front of the trachea, sufficient to admit the pipe of the bellows. The surgeon is obliged to make an artificial opening into the trachea to enable the patient to respire, when the l itter is prevented from doing so, in the natural way, by diseases and tumours about the back of the throat, the larynx, and upper portion of the trachea. As suffocation would inevitably follow the neglect to make an openingPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 317 into the trachea, and as the operation is quite simple, and free from danger, the line of conduct for the surgeon is obvious beyond the shadow of a doubt, and he who is too timid, or irresolute to act with decision in such cases, ouo-ht to be stigmatized, as destitute of such qualities as are essential to a practical surgeon. The incision is usually made between two of the rings of the trachea, and of suf- ficient size to admit the introduction of a short silver can- nula, through which the patient is to breathe. In France an opening has been made info the larynx, between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, for the purpose of introducing the cannula. As Richter observes, though this plan can be followed without wounding any part of importance, it is difficult to conceive what advantage it possesses over the common method ; indeed, as the larynx is a much more irritable part than the trachea, one must infer, that it is generally better to make the incision in the latter part. The last kind of case, for which tracheotomy is indicat- ed, is when any foreign body has accidentally fallen into the trachea, through the rima glottidis. This is a very dan- gerous sort of accident, and frequently produces almost in- stantaneous suffocation. As the catastrophe sometimes happens, even when the extraneous substance is small, compared with the diameter of the trachea, we must con- clude, that suffocation is often not so much the consequence of that tube being completely obstructed in a mechanical manner, as by the spasmodic contraction which it under- goes, in consequence of the presence of the foreign body. When urgent symptoms exist, or when a person has only been suffocated a very few minutes in this manner, it is the duty of the surgeon to make an immediate incision into the trachea, and with the aid of a narrow pair of for- ceps to endeavour to extract the extraneous body. I have known several instances of children being suddenly suf- focated by this kind of accident: one was brought to my318 FIRST LINES OF THE house about three months ago, which died almost instanta- neously, in consequence of a piece of apple falling into the windpipe. I proposed making an immediate attempt to extract the piece of fruit, and inflate the lungs ; but as the friends were averse to the proceeding, and some time was lost before the child was brought to me, I was obliged to relinquish an experiment, which I conscientiously believe ought to have been made. When a free incision into the trachea is requisite, the surgeon is to divide the integuments with a scalpel, be- ginning the wound just below the inferior lobes of (he thyroid gland, and ending it at a little distance above the sternum. The sterno-tbyroidei muscles are then to be pushed a little towards the side of the neck, and a longi- tudinal wound, of the necessary size, is then to be made in the front of the trachea. The knife must not be carried either to the right or left hand, in order to avoid all risk of injuring the large blood-vessels, and the incision should not extend at all below the first bone of the sternum, lest the subclavian vein should unfortunately be cut. CHAP. XXVI. WRY NECK. IN this complaint the head is drawn towards one of the shoulders. The face is commonly turned towards the op- posite side ; but occasionally towards that, to which the head inclines. The affection, when in a high degree, ren- ders the head quite immovable, so that neither the patient nor another person can place it in its proper position. Hence, when the patient wishes to look jin any other direc- tion, than immediately before him, he is necessitated to turn319 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. bis whole body. Sometimes the bead can be moved, but not brought into a straight posture. In some instances, the patient with exertion can manage to keep the head straight for a short time ; biit it soon becomes again in- clined towards the shoulder. The complaint is usuaLly owing to a defect in the mus- cles, concerned in moving the head. "YV hen, however, the deformity has existed a very long time, and particu- larly yvhen it began in an early period of childhood, and has continued during the growth of the body ; the cervical vertebras either assume a preternatural formation, or be- come anchylosed, in which circumstances the case is totally incurable. This participation of the vertebrae in the dis- order does not, however, always exist, even though the de- formity may have begun at a very early period of life, and existed a considerable time. The malady may originate from a mere contraction of the integuments on one side of the neck. This cause is easily detected by the presence of a scar on the skin. Most surgeons are aware of burns, and sores in the neck, being sometimes followed by the deformity under consideration. In this kind of case the cure is not so easy to accomplish, as many might imagine. A transverse incision is made through the integuments, and the head is afterwards kept in a straight posture by some mechanical contrivance, un- til the wound is perfectly healed. It is found to be ad- vantageous to divide the skin high up in the neck, and the wound should go quite through or it will be of no ser- vice. It must be confessed, that the benefit resulting from this operation, is, for the most part, only a temporary one. The operator ought to avoid cutting the external jugular veins. After making a small wound through the skin, it is best to enlarge it to the necessary extent by means of a blunt-pointed curved bistoury. The wry neck is sometimes accompanied with an indura- tion and contraction of the muscles on one side of the neck.First'lines of the 820 The affected side is often, in some degree, painful. Frft* quently an induration of considerable extent is externally perceptible to the touch. The cure of this case is very imperfectly understood. The usual means, which sometimes succeed, are camphor- ated mercurial frictions on the part, even till salivation occurs; the internal exhibition of opium, together with mercurial frictions; electricity ; stimulating embrocations; the shower bath ; blisters, issues, &c. These remedies should be assisted with mechanical contrivances, for gra- dually bringing the head into a straight position. The malady sometimes originates from a contraction of the muscles on one side of the neck, quite unattended with the smallest perceptible induration. This is the sort of ease, for which an operation is advised for dividingtbe con- tracted muscular fibres. This,, however, must only be performed, when the wry neck depends entirely, or princi- pally, on a contraction of the sterno-cieido-mastoideus. When the defect is situated in the other muscles, the oper- ation is not practicable. \V lien the above muscle is alone, or chiefly concerned, the face is always turned from that side to which the head is inclined ; and, in endeavouring to put the head in a straight position, the fibres of the muscle are rendered exceedingly tense. But in (his in- stance, the operation should only be undertaken, when there is no malformation of the cervical vertebrae. Wry necks sometimes depend on paralysis of the mus- cles on one side of the neck, particularly of the steruo-cleido* mastoidcus. i lie muscles of the opposite side, in this case, draw the head out of its proper position, in consequence of not being counteracted by their paralytic antagonists. Electricity has been know n to cure a case of this descrip- tion. Th,e head should be kept in a straight position dur- ing the trial of this remedy, as paralytic muscles are more apt to recover their tone, in a tense, than in a. relaxed state. If this plan should fail, a division of the soundPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 321 tterno-cliedo-mdstoideus may sometimes be rationally pier- formed. In some instances the wiy neck is entirely a spasmodic Complaint. In general, it is quite sufficient to divide the clavicular portion of the muscle. If the surgeon should determine to cut out a part of the fibres, the incision should be made through the skin exactly in the direction of this portion of the sterno-clicdO-mastoideus. If he means only to divide it, a transverse wound will suffice. On this part of the muscle being completely exposed, the rest of the operation is to be completed by passing a director, and blunt-pointed curved bistoury, under where the division is intended to be made. If a part of the muscle is to be removed, the ope- rator may most conveniently finish the operation with a pair of forceps, and a comon knife. If great, but not complete, amendment should follow this division, the judgment of the practitioner must decide whether cutting the sternal portion of the muscle across, presents a reasonable chance of doing further good. CHAP. XXVII. URONCIIOCELE. BRONCHOCELE signifies an indolent enlargement of the thyroid gland; and, of course, it is attended with a swelling of the upper and front part of the neck. The tumour is quite free from pain; and, in its incipient state, is of a soft, spongy, elastic consistence. Its base is usually broad. When the case has existed some time, the gland loses its natural figure, assumes a firm fleshy feel, being, however, firmer in some places than in others, and spreads towards each side of the neck. The diseased gland may, in time, attain a prodigious magnitude. When the adja-322 FIRST LINES OF TIIE cent cellular substance, and lymphatic glands, participate in the disease, the base of the swelling sometimes extends from one side of the neck to the other. In some instances only one lobe of the gland is affected. The bronchocele seems to be endemic in several moun- tainous countries; Switzerland, Savoy, Tyrol, Derbyshire, &c. It is most frequent in young persons; and occurs more often in the female than the male sex. Dr. Baillie observes, that when a section is made of the thyroid gland, affected with this disease, the part is found to consist of a number of cells, containing a transparent viscid fluid. The ordinary bronchocele is entirely a local disease, pa- tients usually finding themselves, in other respects, per- fectly well. The tumour itself frequently creates no par- ticular inconvenience, only deformity. Large broncho- celes, however, are frequently attended with obstruction to respiration, and hoarseness of the voice. There is no ma- lignancy in the disease, and the swelling does not readily inflame.. I shall say nothing of causes, as they are involved in great obscurity. It is sometimes undoubtedly connected with a scrophulous habit. TREATMENT OF BRONCHOCELE. The disease, in a recent state, may frequently be cured when inveterate, though it is often capable of being consi- derably diminished, it is hardly ever entirely removed. The most celebrated remedy for bronchocele is burnt sponge, given in the dose of a scruple, two or three times a day. The powder may be made into an electuary with syrup. Some prescribe burnt sponge in the form of a troche.* It is sometimes customary to add a grain of calomel * This is said to be more efficacious when placed under the tongue* and. allowed to dissolve there gradually. / „ ,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 323 to each of the above doses. Some practitioners exhibit a mercurial purgative about once a fortnight, during he trial of the medicine. Natron ptt. (mineral alkali) is another medicine, occasionally employed in the present cases. Other remedies are, two scruples of calcined eggshells, given every morning in a glass of red wine; 3 fs. of the kali sulphuratum, dissolved in water, taken daily; ten or fifteen drops of the tinct. digit, purpur, twice a day, the dose be- ing gradually increased ; muriated barytes; cicuta ; bella- donna, &c. External applications may also be employed, in con- junction with some of the above internal remedies. Re- peated frictions of the swelling, with a dry towel, and bathing it very often with cold water, prove very benefi- cial. Some practitioners direct the part to be rubbed with theo^. ammon. acet., or with a liniment, composed of an ounce of camphor, three drams of olive oil, and the same quantity ofthespir. ammon. comp. Very large bronchoceles sometimes, though not very fre- quently, obstruct respiration, deglutition, and the return of the blood from the head, in such a serious degree, that the surgeon would feel greatly inclined to make any rational attempt to relieve his patient, even though it might be one of a bold description. The extirpation of the whole en- larged gland is entirely out of the question. In small bronchoceles this operation is indeed practicable; but in these cases the symptoms are not sufficiently urgent to war- rant the practice. When the respiration becomes consi- derably obstructed by the pressure of a very large diseased thyroid gland, it is certainly a very warrantable proceed- ing to expose and tie the superior thyroideal artery. When the quantity of blood flowing into a tumour is greatly lessened, the size of the swelling commonly soon under- goes a considerable diminution. This may be regarded as a general principle in the treatment of all tumours what- soever. This operation has been actually practised; and y 2FIRST LINES OF THE .324 though a fatal hemorrhage succeeded, the great decrease in the size of the gland, before death, is a sufficient encou- ragement to repeat the trial, particularly as the method of applying ligatures round large arteries is now brought into a very improved state. If the femoral, and even the exter- nal iliac arteries will heal, when tied in the manner recom- mended by Mr. Abernethy, avc can entertain no doubt that the superior thyroideal will do so. CHAP. XXVIII. WOUNDS OF THE THORAX ARE divided into such as do not penetrate, and into others which do penetrate that cavity. The former do not differ in their nature from common wounds; and therefore do not demand particular conside- ration. Cuts and sabre wounds hardly ever interest the parts contained in the chest; stabs and gunshot wounds are the ordinary kinds of violence by which the thoracic viscera are injured. Wounds which simply penetrate the chest, without wounding any contained part, are often unaccompanied by any material consequences. It is frequently difficult to pronounce positively, whether a wound extends into the cavity of the thorax or not. Many punctured wounds are very long and narrow, so as not easily to admit a probe to their termination. Many are made when the patient is in a posture which you can- not precisely ascertain, and in which alone their track can be traced by a probe. But if the symptoms do not indi- cate any difference between a superficial wound of the chest, and one which just enters its cavity, no practical good can result from knowing to which description it an-325 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. swers, and much mischief may arise from tedious exami- nations. However, sometimes the passage of air into, and out of the chest, through the wound, leaves no doubt that the in- jury extends beyond the pleura eostalis• But this syrupy tom can only be expected when there are no circumstances present rendering the wound tortuous, or not freely per- vious. The entrance and exit of air, through the wound, arise from the alternate enlargement and contraction of the tho- rax in respiration. It is well known, that, in the perfect state, the surface of the lungs always lies in close contact with the membrane lining the ribs, both in inspiration and expiration. The lungs themselves are only passive organs, and are quite incapable, by any action of their own, to ex- pand and contract, so as to maintain their external surface constantly in contact with the inside of the thorax, which is continually undergoing an alternate change of dimen- sions. Every muscle that has any concern in enlarging and diminishing the chest, must contribute to the effect of adapting the volume of the lungs to the cavity in which they are contained, while there is no communication be- tween the cavity of the pleura and the external air. In in- spiration, the thorax is enlarged in every direction, the lungs are expanded in the same way, and the air, entering through the windpipe into the air-cells of these organs, prevents the occurrence of a vacuum. But when there is a free communication between the at- mosphere and the inside of the chest, on this cavity being expanded, air must enter at the bag of the pleura, and the lung remain proportionally collapsed. There are several reasons why this event does not regularly take place in wounds of the chest; the principal one is, that the open- ing is seldom sufficiently ample and pervious, and is soon covered with dressings; another is the great frequency ofFIRST LINES OF THE S26 adhesions between the pleura costalis, and pleura puhno- nalis. ^^en, however, air has entered the bag of the pleura through the wound, it is partly forced out again when the muscles of expiration diminish the capacity of the thorax. It is a wise arrangement to have no communication be- tween the two bags of the pleura: if it were not so or- dained, suffocation \Vould be a common consequence of large wounds extending into the chest. Bertrandi informs us, that if a free opening is made into each side of the chest m an animal, suffocation is always the consequence, be- cause both lungs collapse. We shall next notice the most urgent symptoms likely to follow wounds of the chest, and the method of treating them. EMPHYSEMA. This is a term applied to a swelling, arising from a dif- fusion of air among the cells of the cellular substance. This symptom may occur from wounds that just enter the cavity of the chest; in others, that extend more deeply, so as to wound the lungs; and also in cases where these organs are wounded by the spiculce of a broken rib or cla- vicle. I believe emphysema is never very extensive, un- less the air vesicles oi the lungs are injured, and' there is no outer wound ihrough which the air can freely make its escape. Hence we find, that emphysema is a more com- mon consequence of fractured ribs and narrow stabs than of large penetrating wounds ; because in the latter cases the air readily passes and repasses through the opening. When the vesicles of the lungs are wounded, the air, at toe time of expiration, is compressed out of these organs, partly through the wound, but principally through the trachea, as in the natural state. Thus some of the air gets into the cavity of the thorax. But as the pleura costalis,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. * 327 -and intercostal muscles are lacerated, part of the air also most commonly gets through the above wounded mem- brane and muscles into the cellular substance on the out- side of the chest, and thence it is sometimes diffused through the same substance over the whole body, so as sometimes to inflate it to an extraordinary degree. The inflation of the cellular substance lias been considered the most dangerous part of the disease i but Mr. Hewson very ably shews that this is a very erroneous supposition. ' This gentleman remarks, that the wound of the pleura and intercostal muscles may sometimes be too small to suffer the air to get readily into the cellular membrane, but may confine a part of it in the cavity of the thorax, so as to compress the lungs, and cause the same symptoms of tightness of the chest, quick breathing, and sense of suffo- cation, which water does in hydrops pectoris, or matter in empyema. One of the most remarkable cases of emphysema is re- lated by Littre (Acad, des Sciences, 1713). The swelling on the chest was eleven inches thick, nine on the abdomen, and four on all other parts of the body, except tlie scalp, palms of the hands, and soles of the feet. The patient spit blood, had much difficulty of breathing, and made violent efforts to inspire. So unlimited is the diffusion of air, in some cases, that the cellular substance beneath the conjunctha of the eye has been known to be prodigiously inflated. From what has been stated, it is evident, that fn cases of emphysema the danger does not depend so much on the degree of external swelling, as on the degree of compres- sion produced on the mediastinum, diaphragm, and the luffg of the opposite side. If air does^ not diffuse itself in the cellular substance be- fore the third or fourth day from the accident, there is not ^«uich chance of its doing so afterwards, because the extra-FIRST LINES OF THE 32* vasation of coagulating lymph around the wound shuts up the pavities of the cellular substance, TREATMENT OF EMPHYSEMA. In cases where the air has not escaped from a wound of the lungs themselves, and only a moderate quantity has yet insinuated itself into the bag of the pleura, I see no objec- tion to covering the external aperture of the wound with adhesive plaster. It is true, as soon as the air, already pre- sent, finds an impediment to its escape from the wound, it will be likely to diffuse itself in the surrounding cellular substance. Tq counterbalance this inconvenience, it is cleqr, that in proportion as the air diffuses itself in this manner, the lungs must expand to fill up the vacuum pro- duced in the cavity of the thorax, and the oppression of respiration be diminished. The external emphyscmatou? swelling cannptbp productive of any serious consequences, and can only increase as long as the stock qf air in the chest yemains unexhausted. If the swelling should be very large, two or three small scarifications pray be made, iq order to give vent to the confined air. Jfust before placing the adhesive plaster over the external aperture qf the wound, it is erroneously directed that the patient should draw as much air into the lungs as possible, and retain it there till the plaster has been applied. The air enters the cavity of the chest through the wound at the same time, and from the same causes, as it enters the lungs through the trachea ; consequently the exact moment when the mouth of the wound should be closed, is at the end of an expiration. The difficulty of ascertaining positively whether the lungs are not superficially wounded, so as to furnish a part of the air, may sometimes make it difficult tp decide whether it is right to adopt the foregoing practice or not. Wheq the external wound has been closed, and the difficulty ofPRACTICE OF SURGERY. ^29 breathing increases, while the emphysema spreads, it is then rational to conclude that the air escapes from a wound of the lungs into the cavity of the thorax, and thence into the cellular substance in tlje vicinity of the external wound. In this circumstance the air must be allowed to pass and repass through the wpund, until sufficient time has been allowed for the wound in the lungs to be closed by coagu- lating lymph; and if the symptoms of pressure on the Jungs are very urgent, and the air does not very readily escape through the wpund, it is proper cither to enlarge it, if conveniently situated, or to make another opening into the bag of the pleura. The mode of performing paracen- tesis thoracis will be mentioned hereafter. In emphyse- matous cases a very small, but direct and pervious opening is proper; for if there be much air compressing the lungs, it will escape through a small, as well as a large opening, and without so much chance of inflammation as when a large one is made. In five or six days we may generally conclude that the wound in the lungs is healed ; and this may be known by the great diminution in the quantity of air issuing through the wound. The external wound may now be closed ; and the lungs will gradually expand, as the air is ab- sorbed. Bandages round the chest, in emphysematous oases, must, generally' speaking, be exceedingly improper, as long as air passes from the wounded lung into the bag of the pleura. They must strongly tend to prevent the air issu- ing from the chest, and therefore augment the degree of compression on the lungs. ^ydien the emphysema is large, it is always proper to give an outlet to the air, by making small punctures in va- rious situations, and promoting its exit by frictions. In- deed the surgeon is always to be content with this prac- tice, unless the symptoms of compression on the diaphragm ^nd opposite lung, and the approach of suffocation, de-FIRST LINES OF THE 330 note that the air cannot get out of the cavity of the pleura so quickly as it finds its way into it; in which case a , smaIl> but direct, opening is to be made into that side of the chest on which the wound is situated. The practice of endeavouring to exhaust the air from the chest by syringes is now generally deemed superfluous, as it is soon absorbed; and the use and possibility of making the collapsed lung expand in this sudden way, are not credited by the best practitioners. The objection to immediately closing a wound practised to relieve the pres- sure of the air on the diaphragm and opposite lung is, that this pressure may possibly recur - but if the wound be keptnpen by a cannula, though one lung will collapse, the other will suffer no compression, and will support life till the wound in the opposite lung is healed-. Unfortunately the pressure on the lungs in these cases is Upt always simply owing to air: copious extravasations of blood not unfrequcntly exist at the same time. WOUNDS OF THE LUNGS, &C. When blood is coughed up immediately after the chest has been wounded, and when, at the same time, blood, blended with mucus and air, issues from the external open- ing, the lungs are certainly injured. Wounds of the lungs are attended with greatdanger; fatal hemorrhage, extravasation of blood into the large branches of tbe bronchia, and consequent suffocation ; co- pious effusions of blood into the cavity of the pleura ; vio- lent peripneumony, and suppuration in the chest; form a long list of very alarming consequences. When the wound takes place near the root of the lungs, it is commonly fatal, on account of the large size of the vessels at that part. Superficial wounds of the lower arul anterior portion of the lungs are frequently cured.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 331 treatment. When a wound of the lungs is not immediately mortal, the -rand surgical indication is to keep the consequent pe- ripnetunony from becoming so violent as to occasion death, or supparsu ion tri the oh st. The antiphlogistic treatment, in the full sense of the expression, is to be put into prac- tice, and, in a most particular manner, bleeding. The lancet must be used a often as the pulse betrays the least disposition to rise. Le Dran bled one man, whom be cured of a wound of this description, not less than fifteen times. Schmuckcr bled a patient, in a similar case’, four times a day for eight days successively. Leeches should also be repeatedly applied to the outside of the chest. Perfect quietude is to be enjoined. The patient should be cau- tioned not to talk, nor make any strong expiration or in- spiration. A cough is, above all things, to be appeased, as it creates immense disturbance of the wounded parts. The dressings are to be merely superficial. The intro- duction of tents is very seriously hurtful. After a few days the lungs usually contract an adhesion to (he pleura costalis, at the circumference of the wound ; and this con- nexion, which is desirable, because it prevents the insinua- tion of matter into the chest, is very likely to be hindered from taking place by the irritation of tents. YVhen the lungs happen to be wounded in the centre of an adhesion between the pleura pulmonalis, and pleura costalis, it is a fortunate circumstance, as there is then no chance of air, blood, and pus, finding their way into the cavity of the thorax. Great*constitutional derangement sometimes occurs im- mediately alter a wound of the lungs : such as feeble respi- ration ; a small, almost imperceptible pulse; Vomiting; coughing ; coldness of the extremities ; swooning, &c. As * long as such symptoms exist, phlebotomy may be deferred,' and opium is the best medicine. But immediately the pa-FIRST LINES OF THE 332 ticnt lias recovered from this state, bleeding is to be freely practised. It is said, that the substance of the lungs occasionally be- comes emphysematous : the air escapes from tliG air vesi- cles into the interstitial cellular texture; so that the former are compressed, and the palient dies sulfocated. EXTRAVASATION OF BLOOD IN TIIE THORAX. This is liable to happen in all cases, in which the lungs, the intercostal, or internal mammary arteries are^ winded. The symptoms ot blood thus effused are, cv ppresr sipn of the breathing; inability to stand, or ‘,-ing to the weight of the fluid on the diaphragm ; i ; 0st easy posture is on the affected side, but the patient cannot lie on the opposite one without great aggravation of his oppressed breathing ; the respiration is short, frequent, and interrupted ; the countenance is particularly pale. logether with these symptoms, which are indeed very inconclusive, the extremities become cold; a clammy per- spiration takes place ; and if the lungs are wounded, frothy blood is spit from the mouth, and air often escapes from the wound. It is to be regretted that these symptoms are very fallacious. TREATMENT. Though sometimes, when the quantity of blood has been moderate, the symptoms have not urged the necessity of removing it, and the absorbents have afterwards per? formed this .office ; yet, in general, the indication is to take some surgical steps for its immediate evacuation. Several things which promote this end have been prac- tised. 1. Placing the patient in such a posture as is fa- vourable to the exit of blood from the wound. 2. Drawing the blood out by a syringe. 3. Enlarging the wound. 4. Making use of injections. 5. Making an opening qt a depending part of the chest. 1. We can only expect to afford relief by mere posture*'PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 333 i # , when the wound is large, and direct in its course, and the blood is in a fluid state. 2. Syringes, to exhaust the blood out of the chest, are seldom necessary : when the blood is fluid, it will escape spontaneously on a depending opening being made ; and when coagulated it cannot be drawn out by a syringe. 3. The wound should only be enlarged when its situa- tion is favourable to the escape of the blood. 4 . When the blood is coagulated, the injection of warm water is extremely proper. It should not be done with too much force ; and it may be repeated every day till the fluid returns untinged with red globules, and quite free from coagula. 5. When the wound is narrow, and situated either at a fleshy part of the chest, or at its upper part, a counter opening should be made in a depending situation, which will be mentioned in the next chapter. » CHAP. XXIX. PARACENTESIS THORACIS. THIS operation consists in making an opening into the cavity of the chest, for the purpose of giving vent to air, water, matter, or blood, by the pressure of which the func- tions of the lungs are dangerously obstructed. The surgeon can hardly ever know with certainty that a fluid is contained in the chest, so equivocal are the symp- toms ordinarily enumerated by writers. If there were not this most cogent reason, still the idea of performing the present operation with such an instrument as a trocar, isFIRST LINES OF THE *34 deserving of the strongest reprobation. The proper instru- ment is a small sharp bistoury ; and the operation, when adroitly executed with this, cannot be deemed a dangerous one. Hence, though there may be doubt in almost every case concerning the presence of a fluid in the chest, still the practice of paracentesis is sometimes exceedingly plausible. When the cavity of the chest is filled with water, the disease is termed hydrops pectoris ; when with pus, empy- ema, a word implying internal suppuration. Both water and pus, extravasated in the chest, have some symptoms common to them ; such as short and difficult respiration, the lungs not being able to expand themselves properly in the fluid, which surrounds and compresses them. In both cases also expiration is even more difficult than inspiration, on account of the weight of the fluid, which strongly op- poses the elevation of the diaphragm. Sometimes when the patient moves in bed, he distinctly feels the undulation of a fluid. If this is contained in only one cavity of the chest, he cannot lie comfortably on the opposite side, be- cause the fluid then compresses the other lung. The ribs on the affected side are observed to be more arched than is natural, because the fluid resists their depression. When no symptoms of suppuration have occurred, the case may be deemed hydrops pectoris. The face and integuments of the chest are frequently cedematous, and sometimes the arm on the side affected. Sometimes the dropsy of the chest is joined with the same general affections of the body. All these symptoms, however, may indicate empyema, when combined with preceding marks of inflammation and sup- puration in the ehest. If symptoms of acute peripneu- mony should have taken place ; if vigors should have oc- curred at the termination of the inflammatory fever, and just before the commencement of the above kind of symp- toms ; it is rational to infer, that the case is empyema. I remember a man in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, whosePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 335- heart was pushed quite to the right side of the chest by a collection of matter in the left bag of the pleura.- The pre- ceding existence of inflammation in the chest, the occur- rence of rigors, and the palpitations of the heart quite on the right side of the thorax, enabled me to foretel the na- ture of the case before tLe man died. With regard to the place which is the most proper for making an opening into the chest, a few words are neces- sary, because some very excellent modern surgeons, and among them Bertrandi, disregarding every other considera-. tion but that of making a depending aperture, advise us to perform the operation between the third and fourth false ribs, counting from the last, and about four or five finger- breadths from the spine. But every object can be effec- tually obtained by making an opening more forward, where there are no muscles, except the intcrcostals, to be divided. The most eligible place is between the sixth and seventh true ribs, just at that point where the indigitations of the serralus major anticus terminate. By placing the patient on his abdomen, this opening may be rendered a very depending one. An incision about three inches long must be made through the integuments. These are first to be drawn lo one side, if it be intended to close the wound immediately afterwards. The intercostal muscles are next to lie cau- tiously divided, and a small puncture carefully made in the pleura eostalis, as soon as it is exposed. The inter- costal muscles must be divided closely to the upper edge of the lower rib, in order to avoid any chance of wounding the intercostal artery, which runs in a groove along the lower edge of the upper rib. In emphysematous cases a small puncture will gene- rally suffice; iu hydrops pectoris it maybe made somewhat larger; and in empyema the matter must have an opening of sufficient size to allow the fluid to escape freely, and a cannula, to be afterwards introduced.FIRST LINES OF THE 336 CHAP. XXX. REMOVAL OF A DISEASED BREAST, AND fti* taOURS IN GENERAL. THE manner of removing encysted tumours has al- ready been described. AV hen the breast is affected with any disease of an incu- rable nature, the surgeon can sometimes extirpate the ma- lady by cutting away the whole of the diseased parts. If the disease be of a scirrhous or malignant nature, some particularity in the mqdc of operating is requisite. The surgeon ought, in this case, not to be content with merely removing parts, Avhich are palpably and visibly diseased, but he should also endeavour to remove a cer- tain quantity of the substance, which is in the immediate circumference of the disease. In the observations on scirrhus, in the first part of this work, we have mentioned the propensity of the skin to be affected, and the frequent extension of white morbid bands into the surrounding adi- jtose substance. These facts greatly confirm the propriety of making a free removal of the skin, whenever it is in the least discoloured, puckered, adherent to the swelling be- neath, or in any way altered ; and of taking away a good deal of the fat, in which scirrhous tumours are sometimes involved. When there are no reasons for supposing the disease of the breast to be any tiling else than a mere sarco- matous enlargement, the removal of the skin must certainly be considered unnecessary. When cancer recurs, the skin is the first part in which it usually makes its appearance, and the skin of the nipple in particular. Hence many surgeons always make a rule to remove the latter part, when it is judged proper to take away any of the integuments*PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 33V The operation is usually performed as the patient is in a sitting posture, well supported by pillows and assistants. The pectoral muscle is to be made tense by keeping the arm back, by means of a stick, placed transversely behind the back, in front of the forea rms. If none of the integuments are to be removed, a straight incision is to be made through then! ; the tumour is to be regularly dissected all round from the circumjacent parts; and, lastly, its base is to be detached from its connexions, from above downward, till the whole is separated. This is the mode of removing all simple tumours, which are not of a malignant nature, and which are not of an immense size. When the tumour is of a malignant nature, and adherent to the skin and pectoral muScle beneath, the operator is to remove, at least, an inch or two of the fat on every side of the disease. The portion of the skin intended to be taken away must be included in two semicircular incisions, which meet thus Q at their extremities ; and w^en the base of the tumour Is to be detached, the surface of the pectoral mus- cle, wherever it is adherent to the tumour, is also to be re- moved . It is sufficiently obvious, that the advantage of making the incision in the above manner, consists in enabling the surgeon to bring the edges of the wound together after the operation,-so as to form a straight line, and unite by the first intention. The mere magnitude of a tumour frequently renders it highly judicious to take away a portion of the skin in the above method. If some were not removed, the dissection of the tumour would be exceedingly tedious; and, after the operation, the loose undistended skin would lie in folds, and form, as it were, a large pouch for the lodgment of matter. The tumour being removed, the surgeon should examine zFIRST LINES OF THE 333 the interior of the wound, in order to ascertain that no in- durated partis left behind. If any hardness should be felt, it is proper to remove it. The surgeon should also examine the surface of every scirrhous tumour, imme- diately it is taken out, for the purpose of knowing whether any of the white bands, shooting into the surrounding fat, have been divided; for, in this case, some portions have been lett behind, and ought to be taken away. Their si- tuation may easily be known, by considering the position of the tumotfr before the operation. When the dissection of a swelling, will occupy a con- siderable time, it is always judicious practice to tie every large artery as soon as it is divided. This remark is not meant to comprehend vessels of such a diameter, that though they bleed when first cut, they do not emit blood afterwards, so as to require a ligature. It was Desault’s invariable method, in cutting out tumours, to tie every large artery before he continued the dissection. hen a tumour of the breast has been entirely detach- ed, and the hemorrhage suppressed, the stick confining the arm backward is to be removed. Then if there are any diseased glands in the axilla, it is a very excellent plan to tie the pedicles, by which they are attached on the side to- wards the axillary artery, before attempting to cut the tu- mours completely away. It would be extremely difficult, after taking off the gland, to tie the little short artery which enters the swelling, almost immediately it has quitted one of the thoracic arteries. The bleeding also, in conse- quence ol the shortness of the vessel, and vicinity of its ori- fice to the thoracic arteries, would be exceedingly profuse, seeming rather to arise from a wound of the latter vessels than of a small branch. 1 he celebrated Desault used to pursue tlie practice above recommended; and sir Charles Blicke has long been in the habit of observing the same rule, in the numerous opera- tions, which he has performed with the utmost benefit to the afflicted, and well deserved honour to himself.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 339 The operation being finished, the skin of the wound uf to be relaxed, and the edges brought together with adlA Sivc plaster. Compresses and a bandage should next ■ applied. If a breast has been removed, the arm on tft same side should be kept perfectly quiet in a sling until tft wound is healed. CHAP. XXXI. WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN ARE divisible into such as penetrate that cavity; and into others which only interest its parietes. The former differ very much in their nature, according as they do or do not injure parts of importance contained in the abdo- men. The latter are not very different from the generality of other superficial wounds. To lower inflammation, and to prevent collections of matter, are the chief indications ne- cessary to be observed in the treatment. There are, how- , ever, a few particularities in superficial wounds of the ab- domen claiming notice. SUPERFICIAL WOUNDS. All authors, From the remotest antiquity, have recorded, that wounds of tendinous parts are more dangerous than those of fleshy ones. Almost the whole front of the abdo- men is covered with tendinous expansions ; and hence it is not uncommon tcrobserve wounds in this situation followed by great local inflammation, which ends in the formation of abscesses. The constitution is, at the same time, dis- turbed with sympathetic fever. As the tension of the ab- domen subsides, rigots occur, from which we have ground to suspect that suppuration is about to take place. z 2FIRST LINES OF THE 340 The mailer that forms in these eases sometimes makes its way into the tendinous sheath of the rectus muscle; and when the collection of matter in this situation remains un- discovered till a pointing happens, no sooner does it burst, or it is opened, than-some quarts of pus will often gush out. The surgeon should bear in his mind the nature of this case, as there is frequently no change of appearance in the integuments to denote the occurrence and extent of the suppuration, which properly ought to be punctured at an early period, and in a depending situation, sometimes at the veiy lowest part ot the sheath for the rectus muscle. When matter also forms beneath the abdominal muscles, on the exterior surface of the peritoneum, the abscess should be opened soon, to prevent its discharging itself into the abdomen. The propensity of pus to make its way to the surface of the body, is often seen to have im- mense influence in this sort of case. Though there is only a thin membrane intervening between matter so situated, and the cavity of the abdomen, yet it mostly points ex- ternally, if the surgeon neglects to make an opening into it. In all cases where the abdominal muscles arc wounded, it is an indication to place the patient in such a posture as shall relax them. As the peritoneum is connected with the inner surface of the abdominal parietes, there is always a chance of the inflammation of the muscles communicating itself to thi& membrane. The event is to be averted by the rigorous em- ployment of the antiphlogistic treatment. When any point of the peritoneum is affected, the inflammation often spreads with immense rapidity over ifs whole extent. The same treatment is applicable to superficial wounds of the abdomen as to ot hers. Union by the first intention is to be attempted in every case where there is reason to ex- pect success.34* PRACTICE OF SURGERY. WOUNDS PENETRATING THE ABDOMEN WITH, AND WITH- OUT, INJURY OF THE VISCERA. A narrow, oblique wound may penetrate the cavity of the abdomen, without there being any mode of ascertaining easily whether it has done so, or not. This is ot no prac- tical importance ; for when there are no urgent symptoms evincing the nature of the case, the treatment ought ob« « viously to resemble that of a simple w ound. When a wound penetrating the abdomen is of sufficient size, the appearance of a portion of intestine, or of omen- tum in it, leaves no doubt that the peritoneum is divided. Profuse hemorrhage, from a wound ot the abdomen, is a ground for suspecting that some viscus of consequence is injured. There is no artery in the parietes of the abdo- men, except the epigastric, from which much blood can be effused, and it is easy to learn whether the hemorrhage proceeds from it. The escape of the contents of particular viscera some- times manifests what has happened. lint whether any appearance of this kind happens, must depend on the size and course of the wound. When there are no external marks, denoting what vis- cera are injured, the surgeon may always form a judgment from the symptoms which follow, and which are of two • kinds, general, and particular. The former consist of a small, feeble, contracted pulse ; pallid countenance; coldness of the extremities; great and sudden debility; hiccough; vomiting; spasm and tension of the abdomen. Such symptoms may, indeed, occur in irritable, timid subjects, without any important part being injured; but then they usually gooff vary soon. The particular symptoms evince what parts arc wound- ed. They arc, bloody urine, when the kidney's, or uri- nary bladder is wounded; vomiting of blood, when'the342 FIRST LINES OF THE stomach is injured; evacuation of blood with the fteces when the large intestines are wounded. ^ Deep stabs have often been indicted without wounding any parts of importance, contained in the abdomen; or if such parts have been injured, the ensuing symptoms were so mild as not to discover it. The great elasticity and mo- bility of the intestines may sometimes allow them to glide out of (lie way of a penetrating instrument. Wounds piercing the cavity of the abdomen, without injuring the contained parts, are not exempt from danger. They are sometimes productive of great irritation, inflam- mation, and suppuration, on the inner surface of the peri- toneum. These effects are, probably, not merely attri- butable to the formation of an external communication ; for the breach of continuity itself is a cause of inflamma- tion. Perhaps too much stress has been laid on the introduc- tion of air into the abdomen as the cause of inflammation. In fact, the cavity of the belly is always so completely occupied by the various viscera, that the whole inner surface of the peritoneum is constantly in close contact with them, and consequently air cannot so easily diffuse itself from the wound throughout the abdomen, as has been conceived. Notwithstanding the advice of numerous u'rifers, that punctured wounds of the abdomen ought to be kept open by tents for a few days, to allow matter to flow out, in case it should form, there can be no rational doubt that an attempt ought always to be made to unite at once every kind of wound penetrating the abdomen. Success will pnly attend this effort when the stab has produced but little contusion and laceration of the fibres ; and when, con- sequently, there is no necessity for suppuration to occur. Yet it is judicious to take the chance ; for if the external ^ound heals by the adhesive inflammation, it is impro- bable that the deeper parts will not do so, when they have suffered only equal violence, and are naturally more prone to the adhesive inflammation, than parts nearer the sur-343 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. face of the body. The introduction of tents is itself a considerable irritation, and renders the formatron of matter inevitable. ' f^ ■. It is advisable, therefore, to dress -wounds of the abdo- men according to the common principles. W hen of the incised sort, their edges are to be approximated by relax- ing the muscles that are interested ; by the use of adhesive plaster; and by the application of the uniting bandage. Bleeding is to be practised ; the mildest purgatives, such as oleum Heim, manna, and natron HlHolalum, are to be given; and perfect quietude is to be prescribed. In cut wounds we usually know whether any of the bowels are Ss wounded. When it is a punctured wound, without evidence of any important viscus being injured, the dressings should be quite simple and superficial. A pledget of the unguen- lum spermatis cell, a small compress over it, and a roller applied moderately tight round the body, to diminish the motion of the viscera, arc the best measures to be adopted. The patient is to be bled freely, and the smallness ot the pulse, a peculiarity in inflammation of the peritoneum and bowels, is not to deter the surgeon from using the lancet, but ought rather to convince him of the existence of such inflammation. Hernia; often occur after wounds penetrating the abdo- men have healed ; it is therefore recommended to wear a truss afterwards on the situation of the cicatrix. PROTRUSION OF T1IF. VISCERA. A portion of intestine, or omentum, usually protrudes through large wounds-penetrating the abdomen. The sooner such parts arc returned, the more effectually will the irritation, arising from exposure, and the pressure of the circumference of the wound on them, be prevented. Fomenting the protruded parts, as is sometimes recom- mended, is a fruitless measure, and hurtful, inasmuch as itFIRST LINES OF THE 344 delays the reduction of them. The natural warmth and moisture of the abdomen are far more congenial to them than any other application whatsoever. To facilitate the return of a piece of intestine, or omentum, that is pro- traded, the muscles of the abdomen should be relaxed bv posture, and the large intestines be emptied by a glyster. ie mesentery ought to be returned before the intestine • t ie intestine before the omentum ; but the last protruded portion of each of these parts ought to be the first to be reduced. It is only where the intestine and omentum are free from gangrene, and unwounded, that they are always to be re- turned into the cavity of the belly without hesitation. Ihe two index fingers are most convenient for reducing the parts ; and it is a rule to keep the portion first returned from protruding again by one finger, until it has been fol- lowed by another portion introduced by the other finger. The second portion is to be supported, in the same way,°by the finger used to return it, and so on, till the whole of the displaced parts have been put info their natural situation. The pressure should be made in a straight direction into the cavity of the abdomen ; for when it is made obliquely towards the edges of the wound, the parts are liable to suffer confusion without being reduced, and to glide be- tween the layers of the abdominal muscles. When (he wound is in the anterior part'of the belly, pressure, made in this manner, may cause the viscera to slip into the sheath of the rectus muscle. As soon as the reduction seems complete, the surgeon is to assure himself of it, by introducing his finger into the cavity ot the abdomen, to feel that the parts are all freely reduced, and do not suffer any constriction between the edge of the wound and the viscera, in the abdomen Ihe distention of the protruded intestine by the air or feces in its cavity, may. create a difficulty of reducing it. By pressing the contents towards the wound, they may hePRACTICE OF SURGERY, 345 frequently made to pass, by little and little, into that por- tion of the intestinal canal which is within the abdomen, and the gut may then be returned. Sometimes a piece of intestine, protruded from the belly at a narrow wound, suffer such constriction, that dilating the wound becomes indispensable. Relaxation of the ab- dominal muscles; drawing a little more intestine out of the wound, and gently pressing its contents through the Constriction into the abdomen, will, however, occasionally render the protruded part sufficiently reducible. When it is absolutely necessary to enlarge the wound, the dilatation should be made in a direction that will not endanger the epigastric artery. The incision should, if possible, be made in the direction of the muscular fibres. It is unpardonable to make the dilatation to a greater ex- tent than is necessary, for hernias are very liable to hap- pen whenever the peritoneum has been divided. For the description of the method of dilating the wound, the reader is referred to the account of the mode of dividing the stricture in cases of hernia?. When the protruded intestine is wounded, the aperture is to be closed by a particular suture, before the part ought to be returned into the abdomen. Mortification of a part of the exposed intestine may hap- pen before surgical assistance is obtained. This event is rare in cases oi wounds, bnf not uncommon in those of incarcerated hernia?. The kind of treatment, applicable to it, will be explained in the account of ruptures. When the protruded intestine is in a state of inflamma- tion, its immediate reduction is, beyond all dispute, the means most likely to set every thing right. Even when die inflammation has arisen to a vehement pitch, a timely reduction of the displaced part, and the employment of the antiphlogistic plan, will often serve to prevent the occur- rence of gangrene. The dull, brown, dark, red colour of the protruded intestine may induce the practitioner to sup-1IRST LINES OF TI1E 340 pose, cither that it is already gangrenous, or that gangrene is inevitable, and consequently he may delay returning it into its natural situation. But, notwithstanding this sus- picious colour ot the intestine, its firmness will evince that it is not in the state of gangrene, and its immediate reduc- tion ought therefore to be put into practice. The reco- very of a portion of intestine, so .circumstanced, is always a matter of uncertainty, but the propriety of speedily re- placing it in its natural situation, is a thing most certain. In case it should mortify, after being reduced, all hopes of the preservation of life are not to be abandoned, as we shall again notice at a proper opportunity. It is unnecessary to state any thing here concerning the reduction of protruded omentum, as every useful informa- tion on the subject will be found in the chapter on hernia?, OF GASTRORAPIIE, Gastroraphe is a quilled suture employed to unite wounds penetrating the cavity of the abdomen. The only circumstance in which it differs from the quilled suture already described, is its being introduced through both lips of the wound from within outward, in order not to endanger the adjacent viscera. Two needles are, therefore, placed on the same ligature. The perito- neum, muscles, and integuments, are all to be included in the suture. Gastroraphe is to be aided by the observance of a proper posture, the application of adhesive piaster, and the unit- ing bandage. Every thing that puts the abdominal mus- cles into action, drags the suture, irritates the wound, and creates a risk of the t hreads cutting their way through the part, in which they are introduced, consequently it must be avoided. To prevent exertion of the muscles, the bowels are to be emptied by clysters. Opium quiets the sickness frequently attendant on wounds of the abdomen. The ri- gorous adoption of antiphlogistic means is to be observed.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 347 In about eight days the sutures may generally be re- moved, and the cure is to be conducted with the use of sticking plaster, and the uniting bandage, and the observ- ance of a position that affords the greatest degree of relax- ation to the injured muscles. When any part of consequence is wounded, and pours forth its contents into the cavity of the peritoneum, it is re- commended to leave the most depending angle of the wound unclosed. In a memoir dn the abuse of sutures, inserted in the third volume of the Academy of Surgery, we find cases which evince, that wounds of the belly readily unite by means of a suitable posture, and a proper bandage, without having recourse to gastroraphe. These are, however, less decisive than relations of the Cajsarean operation, the extensive wound of which has oftentimes been healed by these sim- ple means, after the failure of sutures. A bandage, made upon the plan of an eighteen tailed one, might be very useful in longitudinal wounds of the abdomen. It is not only possible to dispense with gastroraphe, in the treatment of wounds of the abdomen, it has even been manifested, that this operation has sometimes occasioned very bad symptoms. Under certain circumstances, it may however be essentially necessary to practise gastro- raphe. For instance, were a large wound to be made across the parietes of the abdomen, a suture might becoipe indis- pensably necessary to prevent a protrusion of the bowels. Yet even in this case, the sutures should be as few in num- ber as possible. EXTRAVASATION IN THE ABDOMEN. The ordinary consequence of a wound, piercing any of the parts contained in the bag of the peritoneum, is an ex- travasation of a fluid among the surrounding viscera. This fluid may be undigested aliment, chyle, pancreatic juice,FIRST LINES OF THE 348 fseces, bile, urine, blood, &c. according to the nature of the injured part. There are three distinct and successive classes of bad symptoms, resulting from the effusion of blood in the ab- domen. 1. l he first class depends on the loss of blood itself, and consists of paleness, faintness, sinking pulse, and swooning. 2. The second arises from the presence of blood in the cavity of the peritoneum, and consists of a swelling of the abdomen, and sundry inconveniences produced by the pressure of the extravasated blood on the viscera. If the quantity of blood be small, the inconvenience will be so slight as not <o be noticed. 3. The third is produced by the irritation of the blood in the abdomen. But this irritation can only arise from the putrified state of the extravasated fluid, when the external air has free access to it. In whatever way its presence ir- ritates, we sometimes see local pain, spasms, fever, inflam- mation, hiccough, vomiting, suppuration, and sometimes swelling, and a fluctuation, the effects of its lodgment in the cavity ofthe abdomen. Extravasated urine, bile, and the contents ofthe stomach and intestines, produce a higher and more rapid degree of irritation than effused blood. But, whatever is the nature of the fluid extravasated in the abdomen, the chief consequences are of the third de- scription, and are all of the inflammatory kind, inducing hazard of suppuration and gangrene. The irritation, arising from the quality of the .effused fluid ; the pressure and distention, resulting from its quantify, are sufficient to account for the origin of such mischievous effects. The symptoms, caused by wounds of parts contained in fhe abdomen, may either appear immediately or sometime afterwards, and they are of two kinds, local and consti- tutional.34<j PRACTICE OF SURGERY. The ordinary constitutional ones are, spasm, weak- ness, fever, vomiting, anxiety, oppressed respiration, &c. The local consist of pain and tumefaction. When these symptoms appear soon after the wound, and after a time gradually diminish, or go off entirely, but sooner or later originate again, there is reason to consider their first occurrence as the immediate effect of the injury; their second, as the effect of an extravasation. Yet this plan of decision may, sometimes, lead to error. When urine and bile are extravasated, the symptoms of extravasation arise very early, and often continue from their commencement extremely urgent, and without any intermission of mildness. In such cures the local pain, swelling, and fluctuation, often afford ample information, and the latter symptom is particularly decisive when it precedes the pain. Sometimes the escape of some of the extravasated fluid, out of the external wound, conveys instruction to the prac- titioner. It has already been noticed, that all the parts contained in the abdomen are closely in contact with each other, and with the inner surface of the peritoneum. Hence the ex- travasation in question is seldom extensively diffused, as one might suppose, among the exterior surfaces of the different viscera, they commonly lie in one mass. The pressure of the elastic bowels, of the diaphragm, and ab- dominal muscles, not only frequently presents an obstacle to the expansion of extravasated matter, but it oftentimes propels it towards the external wound. We can conceive no power capable of overcoming the resistance so produced to the wide diffusion of extravasated fluids in the cavity of the abdomen. Numerous cases are on record, of persons being stabbed through the body without any evil conse- quences. The bowels have been supposed, in these in- stances, to have eluded the point of the weapon. Indeed, it is rational to credit that this has many times been- the350 FIRST LINES OF THE actual occurrence; but it is highly probable, that in many of these cases the bowels have been punctured, and an ex- travasation ot the intestinal matter has been impeded by the Apposite pressure of the adjacent viscera. «It is further probable, that such resistance and pressure have sometimes occasioned intestinal matter, actually ex- trayasated^ to repass into the wound of the bowel, and thus to be speedily removed. Such copious evacuations of blood per anum have followed stabs of the abdomen, as could hardly proceed from the arteries of the intestines. This mode of an extravasation being got rid of, must however be rare, compared with that by absorption, But the adhesive inflammation is a principal circum- stance preventing the wide diffusion of extravasated fluids among, the viscera.of the abdomen. All the surfaces, in contact with each other, and surrounding the track of the wound, become generally so intimately connected together by the adhesive inflammation, that the wound forms a sort of canal, entirely destitute of all communication with the cavity of the peritoneum. The rapidity, with which such adhesions take place, is often very great. When the extravasation takes place to a certain degree at the moment of the wound, the effused fluid often be- comes, in a very short time, shut up in the cyst, in conse- quence of the adhesive inflammation having united all the surrounding surfaces to each other. Sometimes the extravasation is, however, diffused in va- rious degrees over the abdomen, owing to the patient being subjected to a great deal of motion, or to violent spasmodic contractions of the intestines, arising from the irritation of the extravasated matter. Urine and-bile are more fre- quently dispersed extensively among the convolutions of the viscera than blood. TREATMENT OF EXTRAVASATIONS. W hen an extravasation is perceived at first, a part ofPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 35\ (he wound is to be left open, and the posture of'the patient is to be so regulated as to make the wound as depending as possible, in order to promote the escape of the effused fluid. In case it is not perceived till after the wound has been dressed, it is directed to remove the means employed to close a part of it, and to place the patient in a proper pos- ture with a bandage applied round the body. Should in- ternal hemorrhage still prevail, there is no application equally efficacious witli cold washes. When symptoms of irritation prevail, attended with local inflammation, pain, and a fluctuating tumour, the extravasated fluid may be evacuated by the puncture of a trocar. When there are no symptoms to denote the exact seat of the extravasation, the employment of antiphlogistic means, a suitable posture, and the introduction of a tube into the wound, are all the measures that can be adopted. For my own part I would restrict the plan of treatment to avert- ing inflammation, as in this circumstance, no bene- fit can be derived from posture, or from a tube that docs not actually reach the effused fluid, and the former must often be irksome, the latter always irritating. A bandage applied rather tight round the body ought not to be omit- ted, as it is a certain mode of promoting that compact state of parts contained in the abdomen, by which the ill consequences of extravasation are so materially dimi- nished . When the situation of the effused fluid is not precisely known, the case is dangerous, but not hopeless. Some- times, by pressing the intestines a little backward from the wound, if it be Urge enough for this purpose, the extra- vasated matter has an opportunity to escape. In other in- stances, it does not find an exit till suppuration has taken place, and the abscess has burst externally. Occasionally it makes its way (by exciting ulceration) into the aliment- ary canal, and is discharged per anum.t 352 FIRST LINES OF TflE Urine, bile, and intestinal matter, extravasated in the abdomen, occasion dangerous inflammation, and not un- frequently gangrenous mischief. No measure can lead to the patient’s preservation but a timely evacuation of such effusions. The antiphlogistic plan alone is quite ineffec- tual, and even the discharge of the extravasated fluid will not avail, unless speedily practised ; for after the inflam- mation has attained a certain pitch, gangrene becomes in- evitable. When the extravasation is situated near the external wound, the surgeon must endeavour to make a way for its escape, by gently separating the bowels from each other, and the peritoneum, by means of a probe, on his own fingers. The wound may even be enlarged to promote this object. When the extravasation is situated remotely from the external wound, an opening must be made into it by a trocar, or a scalpel, at a depending part. The trocar is the most eligible instrument in cases where the extrava- sation is thin and limpid, the swelling large, and the fluc- tuation distinct. When the extravasated matter is not very fluid, as for instance, excrement and coagulated blood; when the swelling is not very prominent, the undulation is not very plain ; it is safer and more effectual to employ a scalpel. WOUNDS OF THE INTESTINES. Vomiting of blood, or dischargerof it by stool; the escape of fetid air, or of intestinal matter from the exter- nal wound; an emply, collapsed state of a portion of bowel protruded at the aperture ; arc the ordinary visible symptoms attending a wound of the intestine. When the wound happens to be situated in the protruded portion, it is then obvious to the surgeon’s eye ; but when the in- jury has occurred at a part of the intestinal canal, situatedPRACTICE OF SURGERY. OJJ far within the abdomen, the nature of the case does not manifest itself till an extravasation happens. , The surgeon nlay adopt three different lines of conduct in the treatment of a wounded or mortified intestine. J. He may endeavour to unite the breach of continuity in the bowel by a suture. 2. He may endeavour to form an ar- tificial anus. 3. Lastly, lie may only employ general means, and trust the rest to nature. The circumstances that ought to determine the choice are our next consideration. Vv hen lire wounded part ot the bowel is protruded, the suture is to be made use ot before the partHs reduced. . ^ When the wound of the intestine is situated within the' cavity of the abdomen, a suture is impracticable^ and ex- cept general means to avert inflammation, nothing can be done. ’/ / The true object of applying a suture to a wounded intes- tine, is not to procure an union of the edges ot the wound to each other, by making them touch at every point; nor is it designed to prevent the escape of air, and intestinal matter, from the cavity of the bowel into the bag of the peritoneum. The thin, moveable membranous edges the wound of the bowel would render such aims quite nu- gatory, unless such numerous stitches were''employed, as *. might, themselves prove the cause of sloughing, rather than the means of promoting a permanent cicatrization of the intestinal wound. A breach of continuity in an intestine is never repaired by the growth of the opposite edges of the wound to each other. The inflammation that regularly ensues, occasions an adhesion of the ad jacent viscera to the wounded portion of intestine, and thus the breach in it becomes closed. The only true object of applying a su- ture to a wounded bowel, is to confine the injured part - closely behind the external wound by means of the liga* ' lures, in order that any extravasated matter may find its A A354 FIRST LINES OF THE p. 0 (W r way out of the external aperture, and not into the abdo- men. When the wound of an intestine is situated within the abdomen, remotely from the external wound, no uiun is practicable.[ 'The surgeon seldom knows, at first, that the bowel is injured ; for the matter extravasaied from its cavity does not appear at the wound ; and when the ex- travasation is afterwards discovered, it would be impossi- ble to get at the wound of the intestine, on account of the ia cxc erg^x^dhesion that soon forms. C- 'L.i' tc Even if the wound of the intestine were discovered on its first occurrence, no suture could be applied to it without fehlarging the external wound, searching for the wounded bowel, and drawing it out of the cavity of the abdomen. By these steps a wound, that might not previously have been dangerous, would very probably be converted into a mortal one. /hf When the wound of the intestine is first detected, on the occurrence of an extravasation a few days afterwards, the discharge of the effused fluid is the only thing to be done. A suture for the wound of the bowel is unnecessary, as the adhesive inflammation has already fixed the part in > its situation,' and the aperture in it is closed in the man- ner already explained. When the wound of the intestinal canal is situated in the abdomen, closely behind the inner wound, the em- ployment of a suture is also unnecessary, as the contents of the gut are discharged through the external aperture, and there is no reason to fear a diffusion of them among the viscera, if care be taken to keep the external wound open. There is also no cause to fear that the wounded bowel may i change its situation, and become distant from the outer wound. Nothing but violent motion of (he body could cause so unfavourable an accident, and this ought always to be avoided. The adhesions, which take place in the IPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 355 course of a day or two, at length render it impossible for the bowel to vary its situation. When the wounded part of the intestinal canal is pro- truded, there is no difficulty in applying a suture to it. The object of this suture is, as I have already noticed, to prevent the wound of the bowel from becoming very dis- tant from the external wound, and thereby to diminish the chance of any extravasation among the viscera. The wound of the bowel is to be sewed up, the part reduced, and the ends of the ligatures are to be left hanging out of the external wound, and, by their means, the injured intestine is to be confined closely to the aperture in the pe- ritoneum. When the whole intestine is not nearly cut through, asingle stitch is usually sufficient, and not much inconvenience can be apprehended trom its irritation. A fine round needle, threaded rvith fine siltc, is the most proper to be used. Sometimes oid5r one end of the divided gut protrudes at the wound, and" the other lies in the cavity of the alxlo- mcn. If the other end cannot be found, without enlarging the wound, I question, whether the urgency of the case does not warrant the practice. If the upper end should happen to be concealed in the abdomen, certain death must result from its continuance there. If it be the lower one, and no attempt be made to find it, the patient can only survive with the loathsome affliction of an artificial anus. When the protruded intestine is mortified, the case is exactly similar to a mortified enterocele. With regard to the constitutional treatment, in cases of wounded intestines, it is necessary to say only a few words. The principal indication is to prevent a dangerous de- gree of inflammation,, and therefore the rigorous adoption of the antiphlogistic plan of treatment is indispensable. Let not the surgeon be deterred from employing it, by the apparent debility of the patient, his small contracted a a 2356 FIRST LINES OF TIIE pulse, and Hie coldness of his extremities ; symptoms com- mon to acute im fla inmat ion oi the bowels, and requiring repeated venesection. Wounds of the small intestines are attended with more vehement inflammation than those of the large ones. , All flatulent, stimulating, and solid food, is to be avoided. The bowels are to be daily emptied by glysters, by which no matter will be allowed to collect in the intestinal canal, to create irritation and distention. When excrementitious matter is discharged through the external wound, it is highly necessary to clean and dress it very frequently. It is useful, also, to make gentle pres- sure with the fingers, at the circumfereifee of the wound', at every time of dressing, in order to promote the exit of any extravasated fluid. 1 he patient'should always lie in such a posture as v, ill render the external wound depending. The threads of the suture may be removed on the fifth <>r sixth day, when commonly the adhesive inflammation has so united the intestine to the vicinity of the outer wound, that there is no danger of its altering its situation. It is quite unnecessary to allow the threads to remain till no more extravasation appears in the wound, nor should the surgeon fear letting the Avound close. It the case should terminate favourably the intestine ge- nerally undergoes a diminution in its diameter at the place where the Avound was situated. When this is incon- siderable, the patient occasionally experiences colic pains at the part, especially after eating food that tends to pro- duce flatulence. As these pains usually quite go off after a time, and no inconvenience remains, it is probable that the intestine may recover its wonted capacity. A more considerable constriction of the intestines, at the situation of the Around, has sometimes been known to givc rise to a fatal miserere. Even the intestine itself has been knoAvn io burst in this situation, after its contents have accumu- lated behind the contracted part. Patients, aaIio have ,357 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. had -wounds of their intestines healed, should afterwards be particularly careful not to swallow any hard substances, or indigestible, flatulent victuals. Sometimes the contents of the intestines continue to be discharged through the wound, so that either a fistula, or an artificial anus is formed. There is reason to appre- hend the formation of a fistulous*opening, when an intes- tine has been injured by a ball, when it has been quite cut through, or is in a mortified state. But numerous cases have evinced that this is not invariably the consequence, and that a perfect cure has frequently followed each of these occurrences. When an intestine is completely cut through, or is mor- tified, the upper end being exposed, and the lower inac- cessibly concealed in the cavity of the abdomen, there is a necessity to promote the formation ot an artificial anus. For this purpose the extremity of the intestine is to be at- tached by a fine suture to the edges of the external wound. To distinguish the upper end of the intestine from the lower the surgeon should give the patient something to drink, and observe whether it issues, after a certain time, from the mouth of the gut. Until this point is ascertain- ed the surgeon is unwarranted in practising a suture ; for if the upper end should be situated in the abdomen, no one can doubt the propriety of enlarging the wound to search for it, as it is the only means of affording the pa- tient a rational chance of preservation. Gunshot wounds of the abdomen are scarcely ever at- tended with protrusion of the intestines. The treatment 'in thc^e cases is limited to the employment of general means, which have sometimes the happiest effect. y3 IS FIRST LINES OF THE CHAP. XXXII. PSOAS ABSCESS. THIS signifies a collection of matter which usually forms behind the peritoneum, in the cellular substance surrounding the psoas muscle. The origin of this malady is not, in general, attended with any symptoms of acute pain and inflammation, nor with any febrile disturbance of the constitution. There is a dull uneasiness in the re- gion of the loins ; but this, so far from leading to a suspi- cion of the nature of the disease, is usually regarded as rheumatic. The matter is formed slowly and impercep- tibly, occasioning, at first, no manifest swelling nor fluc- tuation, and no material symptom whatever, excepting the uneasiness in the loins, and a slight weakness of the thigh and leg on the affected side. The causes of lumbar abscesses are frequently involved in great obscurity; sometimes the malady has been pre- ceded by a violent strain of the loins, but very commonly we cannot trace the least assignable reason for the disorder. While the abscess occasions no external tumour the diagnosis is always difficult, and any opinion, founded on the existing symptoms, is very undeserving of implicit con- fidence. , The outward swelling at length occurring, may take place in various situations. For the most pru t the matter descends, by its own gravity, in the course of the psoas muscle, passes forward under Poupart’s ligament, and oc- casions an external, fluctuating tumour, quite free from pain and inflammation. The exemption from the latter circumstances is a clear indication that the matter is not originally formed at the place where it first makes its ap»t PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 3^ pearance. The enlargement of the swelling when the pa- tient draws in his breath ; its diminution in an horizontal posture, and on pressure being made; and lastly, the fluc- tuation perceptible to the surgeon’s fingers, when the pa- tient coughs, are circumstances which, combined with the other preceding complaints, clearly evince the nature'of the case. The swelling in the groin seldom becomes exceedingly large, because the matter in general soon insinuates itself beneath the femoral fascia. In some instances it descends as far as the knee, and forms there a prominent swelling. Sometimes the matter makes its way downward into the pelvis, and occasions a swelling in the neighbourhood of the anus. Sometimes it tends towards the loins and sa- crum, giving rise to a swelling just, where abscesses often make their appearance in the disease of the hip joint. In a few instances, the matter causes a swelling in the vicinity of the vertebra;; and less frequently still, it makes its wav ill rough the abdominal muscles, and occasions a tumour at some part of the abdomen. Lumbar abscesses are sometimes attended with a carious state of the vertebra:. The disease of the bones is by some considered as a cause, by others, as an effect of the other jnalady. 1 TREATMENT. 9S* \ In considering suppuration we have inculcated, as a ge- neral principle, liable to particular exceptions, that acu!e abscesses ought to be allowed to burst spontaneously. With respect to chronic abscesses an opposite inculcation seems proper, and surgeons may generally decide to open them as soon as their existence is known, li not opened, they do not make their way through the skin for a very long time, during which period the quantity ot matter is continually increasing, and the cavity of the cyst becoming larger and larger. Psoas abscesses cannot be opened be*FIRST-LINES OF THE 3G0 (> rehe swelling occurs, on account of their very deep situation, and the-difficulty of knowing witli certainty their existence. Hut as soon as a swelling and fluctuation have become evident, the sooner the matter is discharged the better. Experience shews, that when a psoas abscess is opened in the common manner death in general follows sooner, than if the swelling were allowed to burst of itself. The formation of a large opening, but particularly the aper- ture being afterwards left unclosed, occasions an inflamma- tory affection of the whole cyst of ihe abscess, and the most violent description of constitutional disturbance. The discharge is profuse, and its quality becomes thin and fetid. The patient’s pulse becomes small, rapid,'and ir- regular ; copious perspirations, and uunemitting diarrhoea; even delirium ensue, and death very commonly closes the scene. I have had so many opportunities of appreciating the practice recommended by Mr. Abernethy in these cases, that 1 must consider it, in the present state of surgery, as the only one warrantable. This gentleman’s method is to open-the tumour with a broad abscess lancet, observing to introduce the instrument somewhat obliquely. This wound is .generally sufficient for the. discharge of coagula, which are very commonly blended with the contentsof lumbar abscesses. The abscess being completely emptied, the lips of the orifice are to be brought together by means of lint and sticking plaster, in the same way as after phlebotomy, and a compress and bandage are then to be applied. The wound generally heals without trouble. The matter of course collects again, and regularly as it is secreted descends to the lower part of the cyst, on which account the upper part of the cavity will remain a good while undistended, and have an opportunity of contract- ing, When the integuments are ngaih sufficiently ele-' C- ' 1‘lnS'X PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 361 • vated to allow a puncture to be made, without hazaid of wounding the subjacent parts, the abscess is to be emptied again, and the wound healed, just in the manner above de- scribed. Thus the operation is to be repeated as often as may be necessary. By this method the cyst of the abscess, particularly its upper portion, is not. allowed to be distended, and its ca- vity gradually diminishes in size. In conjunction with this treatment, attempts may Le made to promote the absorption of the matter by electri- * city ; giving two or three limes a week a scruple of zincum vitriol. as an emetic; and by blistering the integuments. Care should be taken not to apply the blister at a part where it may be necessary to make a puncture in the ab- scess. A discharge should be kept up. from the blistered surface by the savin cerate. When there is reason to sup- pose the vertebrae, diseased, issues are sometimes beneficial. When the abscess seems disposed to burst by ulceration, the event may sometimes be prevented by a timely punc- ture at a part of the tumour, where the integuments are tree from inflammation. CHAP. XXXIII, PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. THIS operation consists in making an opening into the cavity of the peritoneum, for the purpose of discharging the fluid collected therein dropsical cases. The proper instrument for making the opening is a tro- car, with a cannula, through which, the fluid can readily, escape.first lines of the Until very lately, it was the invariable practice to intro- duce the instrument at the central point of a line, drawn from the umbilicus to the anterior superior spinous process of the ns ilium, and on the left side, in order to avoid all risk of injuring the liver. Modern practitioners usually prefer making the punc- ture in the linea alba for several weighty reasons. The fiist is, that in the other method you are not sure of intro- ducing the instrument in the exact situation of the linea semilunaris, and consequently may unnecessarily wound the thick muscular parietes of the abdomen, instead of meiely a thin tendinous part. Another reason is, that the epigastric artery has sometimes been wounded by very skilful men, when they have attempted to tap in the linea semilunaris. In dropsical cases the rectus muscle is fre- quently much broader than in a healthy subject; and, as it always yields to the distention of the fluid in a greater proportion, than the lateral layers of muscles, the above mentioned measurement is very likely to cause the wound to be made near the course of the epigastric artery. When the operation is to be performed in the linea alba, the instrument should be introduced about two or three inches below the r>uYel. ' •r- - J" As soon as the trocar meets with no further resistance, it is not to be pushed more deeply, without any object, and with a possibility of injuring the viscera. The stilette is now to be withdrawn, and the fluid allowed to escape through the cannula. In consequence of the sudden removal of the pressure of the fluid on the viscera and diaphragm, patients are very apt to swoon, and even become affected with very extraor- dinary and dangerous symptoms. To prevent these un- pleasant occurrences, the abdomen is to be compressed by a bandage, or belt, during the discharge of the fluid, and afterwards is to be covered with a flannel compress, and a roller, applied in rather a tight manner.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. CHAP. XXXIV. HERNLE. BY the term hernia, surgeons imply a preternatural tu- mour, occasioned by some of the viscera oi the abdomen <ru being displaced out of that cavity. The disease, in common language, is called a rupture ; and this appellation seems to have proceeded from an er- roneous idea formerly entertained, that the case was al- ways attended with laceration of the peritoneum. The moderns, with more accuracy, insist, that, in ordinary cases, there is only a dilated state of the parts, in which a hernia is included. The contents of a hernial tumour are usually, either a portion of intestine, or of omentum, and, not uncommonly, of both, at the same time. However, there is scarcely any viscus of the abdomen that has not been protruded in less common cases. When intestine alone is contained in the hernia, the case is termed an enterocele; when omentum alone, epiplocele; and when both are contained in the tumour, it is named an entero-epiplocele. When a hernia contains the stomach, liver, bladder, &c. it is sometimes named accordingly, gasirocele, hepatocele, and cystocele. Besides this division of hernias into several kinds, de- duced from the nature of their contents, there are other surgical distinctions, derived from their situations. Thus, when any of the contents of the abdomen slip through the abdominal ring into the groin, the case is termed a bubo7?o- cele, or inguinal hernia.; and w hen the parts descend lower into the scrotum, or labia pudendorum, the hernia is called3b4 FIRST LINES OF THE an oscheocele. The name oi femoral or crural hernia, is applied to that which occurs below Pouparl’s ligament and 19F most frequent in women. When any of the abdo- nnnal viscera are protruded at the navel, the tumour is termed an umbilical hernia, or exomphalos. The hernial tumours, manifesting themselves below the pubis, near the attachment of the superior head of the triceps and pecli- xeus, are called her nice of the foramen ovale. Sometimes the hernial tumour projects into the vagina, and is there- fore named a hernia of this part. Others, appearing at any other part of the abdomen not mentioned above, are called ventral her nice. One Wi y peculiar case is termed hernia congenita. It exists from the time of birth, and in it some of the abdo- minal viscera,arc actually lodged in tlie tunica vaginalis, in contact with (he testicle. Haller and John Hunter seem equally deserving of the honour attached to the discovery, and explanation of the nature of this particular case. The disease is produced in consequence of a piece of intestine, or omentum, slipping into the tunica vaginalis, before the natural communication between the cavity of (his mem- brane and that of the abdomen, is obliterated in the young subject, In common cases, the contentsofa hernia are always in- cluded in a complete membranous pouch, which is, in tact, formed by the peritoneum. This membrane, every novice in surgery knows, lines the whole cavity of the ab- domen ; and when any viscus protrudes out of the belly, it necessarily carries before it a portion of < lie elastic bag, in which it is naturally included. Such is the simple manner in which a hernial sac is formed. In general, this partis of a thin texture in recent hernias, and of a thick structure in old cases. In an epiplocele, as Le Dran observes, there is nothing to be felt except a doughy softness, which neither abso- lutely yields to the touch, nor very sensibly resists it. ThePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 365 tumour lias a flabby, unequal feel; and, when there is ju> stricture, is perfectly indolent. It is more compressible than that arising from protruded intestine; and when the quantity of omentum is large, the epiplocele may, in some measure, be /distinguished by its weight. Xn an enterocele the tumour is usually more flatulent and elastic. If the intestine be distended with wind, have any degree of stricture made on it, or be inflamed, the swelling will be tense, resist the impression of the fingers, and give pain upon being handled. On the contrary, if there be no stricture, and the gut be neither distended with air, nor in- flamed, the tension will be trivial, juul no pain will occur upon handling the tumour. When the patient coughs, an enterocele feels, as Mr. Pott observes, just as if it were blown into. When an intestine, containing air, is re- duced, it frequently occasions a guggling noise. In the entero-epiplocele, of course, the symptoms arc mixed. Some herniac are capable of easy and immediate reduc- tion. This is usually the case when the aperture, through which the parts protrude, is not so small as to produce constriction, and when these same parts have not contract- ed any adhesions. In old cases of epiplocele, the omentum frequently cannot be reduced, in consequence of tiie mor- bid enlargement which the protruded portion has under- gone, even though its neck may not sutler any degree of stricture. When hernias can be reduced by the hand, this ought always to be done ; and the patient should afterwards con- stantly retain the parts in their natural situation by wear- ing a truss. Many hernia1 are incapable of being reduced, though not in a state of strangulation or inflammation. The incapa- city of reduction, in this sort of case, is commonly ow ing to the largeness and quantity of the contents of the hernial sac; to a morbid thickening and enlargement of them;366 FIRST LINES OF THE and to adhesions, which they have contracted with each other, or with the inside of the sac. Persons afflicted in this manner should avoid every rough description of exercise; should support the hernial tumour with a bandage, and carefully keep it out of the way of all harm from pressure, bruises, &c. and should be particularly attentive to avoid all irregularity of diet and costiveness. As Mr. Pott observes, it is fit that mankind should be apprised that the quiet, inoffensive state of this case is by no means to be depended upon : an-inflam mat ion of that part of the gut which is down ; any obstruction to the passage of the aliment, or faeces through it; a stricture made on it by the opening through which it protrudes; are circum- stances always likely to put the life of the patient into danger. A stricture, in this case, is more dangerous than in or- dinary instances, because there is hardly a possibility of obtaining relief, except by an operation. An irreducible omental hernia, free from constriction and inflammation, is not productive of much immediate dan- ger; but it is always apt to induce perilous symptoms, when affected with inflammation from any accidental cause. Such patients may always be considered very lia- ble to a protrusion of a piece of intestine into the sac. Some hernia} are reducible, but not without difficulty, the patient being subjected to a good deal of pain and danger. The difficulty of rcducii**, the pain, and the danger, may depend on the magnitude of the piece of omentum, or its inflamed state; the quantity of intestine and mesen- tery ; an inflammation of the gut, or its distention by fasces or air ; or on the smallness of the aperture through which the hernia protrudes. But, as Mr. Pott remarks, to what- ever cause it be owing, if the prolapsed body cannot be im- mediately replaced, and the patient suffers pain, or is pre-367 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. vented thereby from going to stool, it is called an incarce- rated, or strangulated hernia. 'I he perilous symptoms at- tendant on this case will be presently detailed, as well as the best means for relieving the patient, and avoiding, if possi- ble, an operation. All that I need observe in this place is, that the bad symptoms are entirely dependent on the con- striction made on the hernial contents, on the oostmetion to the passage of the aliment and fasces through the in- testinal canal, and on the inflamed, and even gangrenous, state of the parts contained in the hernial sac. Other hernias are both strangulated, and incapable of being reduced without an operation. SYMPTOMS OF A STRANGULATED HERNIA. The first symptoms are, a tumour in the situation of the rupture, attended with pain, not only in the part, but all over the belly ; sickness, and inclination to vomit; sup- pression of stools; and some degree of fever. It these complaints are not appeased by the return of the intestine, they are soon exasperated; the-sickness becomes, in the words of Mr. Pott, more troublesome, the vomiting more frequent, the pain more intense, the tension of the belly greater, the fever higher, and a general restlessness comes on, which is very terrible to bear. If, in this state, the operation is improperly delayed, the vomiting is soon ex- changed for a convulsive hiccough, and a frequent ejec- tion of bilious matter from the stomach ensues. The ten- sion of the abdomen, and the febrile symptoms having been greatly increased for a hours, the patient sud- denly becomes quite easy, the swelling of the belly sub- sides, and the pulse, from having been hard, full, and fre- quent, becomes feeble, and generally irregular. The skin, especially that of the extremities, becomes cold and moist. As Mr. Pott describes, the eyes have now a languor and a glassiness not easj- to be described; the tumour ot the part disappears, and the skin covering it sometimes changesFIRST LINES OF THE 3G8 its natural colour for a livid hue. Whether it keeps, or loses its colour, it has an emphjsetnatous feel, a crepitus to the touch. This crepitus is the sure indication of gan- grenous mischief within. In this state the gut either goes up spontaneously, or is returned with (he smallest degree ot pressure; a discharge is made by stool, and the patient fancies himself better. This feeling, however* is of short cluiation; for the hiccough, and the cold sweats continu- ing and increasing, with the addition ot convulsive symp- toms, death soon follows. CAUSES OF HEHNI.E. Every motion, exercise, or exertion, in which the abdo- minal muscles are thrown into a state of powerful action, compress the viscera, and diminish the capacity ofthe ab- domen* must be considered as particularly conducive to the occurrence of hernial On such occasions the bowels necessarily push against the elastic peritoneum, and make it protiude in the form ot a pouch, at any point where the parietes ot the abdomen do not make sufficient mechanical resistance. Rut as in the common occupations and.habits of life, the abdorniiial muscles very ofien make considerable pressure! on flie viscera, and only a certain proportion ot mankind is afflicted with ruptures, we must' conclude, that in those persons, who are afflicted* there must have existed a want of strength in such parts of the pa- fietes of the abdomen as are the seat of the hernia?. This sentiment is corroborated by the ordinary occurrence of the disease at such places as seem naturally to present the least resistance to protrusion of the viscera; for instance, the abdominal ring, and space beneatli Pouparl’s ligament. The opinion is also continued by the occasional origin of ruptures in situations where the peritoneum has, some time before, been wounded. Some men may naturally have abdominal rings of a larger dimension!, and of a w eaker fabric, than those of the /369 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. generality of mankind ; and such may be particularly dis- posed to hernias. An unusually long mesentery, or omen- tum, are mentioned by some writers as predisposing persons to the disease. The doctrine, tlwt eating a good deal of oil is conducive to ruptures, seems only to deserve a place among the nu- merous hypotheses* with which the human judgment is in- cessantly blinded. TREATMENT OF A STRANGULATED HERNIA, BEFORE HAVING RECOURSE TO AN OPERATION. There is no truth, in the whole body of surgical know- ledge, more confirmed by experience, than what is contain- ed in the following passage of Mr. Pott’s treatise on rup- tures: “ A hernia, with painful stricture and stoppage of stools, is one of those cases in which we can seldom stand ‘still even fora short space of time; if ive do not get “ forward, we generally go backward ; and whatever does “ no good, if it be at all depended upon, certainly does “ harm, by occasioning an irretrievable loss of time.” When we reflect upon what parts are wounded by the ope- rator; when We view the operation in an abstract light, and put out of consideration the whole of that constitu- tional derangement, which invariably results from the con- tinuance of the strangulation; there seems ample cause to believe, that the generality of fatal events, consequent to the operation, are attributable to the disease itself, and not to the attempt madefor its relief. Mr. Hey very justly remarks, that if Mr. Pott’s opinion be true, that the operation, when performed in a proper manner, and in due time, does not prove the cause of death oftener than perhaps once in fifty times; it would undoubtedly preserve the lives of many to perforin it almost as soon as the disease commenced, w ithout increasing the danger, by spending much time in the use of means which cannot be depended upon. Indeed the necessity of having a speedy recourse to the a u i370 FIRST LINES OF THE operation as soon as tlie surgeon lias unsuccessfully put .into practice some of the most efficacious, and least dilur tory plans of treatment, is indicated by daily experience. 1 his is moie particularly the case, since we find it recorded in almost every writer upon the subject, that the intestine is often found in a state of mortification a very few hours after its first protrusion from the cavity of the abdomen. Hence, in selecting a method of treatment previously to the operation, it is a matter of the highest importance al- ways to be actuated with a determination to lose no time. The loss ot a single hour may launch the patient into a state from which no skill, no human power, can extricate him. Every surgeon, anxious for his own professional character, or the welfare of his patient, will be cautious to employ only such means, as at once possess the greatest efficacy, do not. tamper with an urgent disease, and create no perilous delay in recurring to a timely operation. The tcu'is, or reduction of the hernial contents by the hand, ought to form the primary object of a surgeon called to an incarcerated hernia. To perform this well in bubo- noceles is impossible, without an accurate knowledge of the precise situation of the abdominal ring; and it has often been a matter of surprise to me, that surgical authors, who have generally been tediously particular in relating the mode of performing the taxis, should never have remind- ed their readers of the great utility of attending carefully to the situation of the opening through which the hernia protrudes. The projecting point of bone, termed the an- gle of the pubis, is the chief guide to the situation of the ring. The opening lies a little above, and on the, inside of this bony prominence, which is very distinguishable in the fattest subject. The contents of a bubonocele descend through the rirnr downward and inward, the sac usually lying immediately beneath the integuments, in front of the spermatic cord. Iu attempting reduction with the hand, all our pressurePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 371 should be concentrated in the direction upward and out- ward, so as to press the contents of the hernia towards the ring. The external oblique muscle should be relaxed. For this purpose the thorax should be elevated, and turned towards the opposite side. Since, also, the femoral fas- cia, when tense) tightens Poupart’s ligament, and may thus, in some degree, straiten the abdominal ling, the thigh should be bent, and rotated inward. In the femoral hernia the viscera descend downward and outward, and the pressure should therefore be made up- ward and inward. The external oblique muscle should be relaxed, and the thigh bent, as in the case of bubonocele - Gimbernat and Mr. Hey have apprised the public, that in femoral hernia; the stricture is -not made, as was supposed, by Poupart’s ligament, but by a band of ligamentous fibres, situated more deeply, to which we shall advert in describing the operation* But as this band is connected with Poupart’s ligament, the relaxation of the latter must necessarily also relax the former part. When manual attempts at reduction have failed, other auxiliary means should immediately be tried. In the opi- nion of the most experienced men, bleeding, cathartics, clysters, cold topical applications, the warm bath, and to- bacco smoke or decoction, introduced into the intestines, arc the most efficacious* Yet it is not enough to possess this information , for to render our knowledge likely to be productive of a judicious practice, it behoves us to learn precisely what degree of reliance should bo placed upon each of these means, and the exact order in which they ought, to be tried, so as to procure the greatest chance of relief, without occasioning any hazardous delay, beyond that critical moment, at which the operation is most strong- ly indicated. When reduction by the hand proves impracticable, I am inclined to think venesection should be immediately Bli 2FIRST LINES OF TKtf # . , ' i V practised. The testimony of the best writers is in favour of this plan ; and the little time consumed in trying its ef- fect, is anotner weighty circumstance in its recommenda- tion. A strangulated hernia is to be regarded as a disease ac- companied with a considerable tendency to inflammation : the impeded functions of the intestinal canal may, and do certainly ,prod u ce alarming derangement of the constitution; but I cannot help considering the advanced progress of (lie inflammation in the contents of the hernia, as the most fre- quent cause of death, the degree of danger being in some degree proportioned to the state of the protruded vis- cera. Hence bleeding must also prove useful, by coun- teracting the inflammatory symptoms. In very old and feeble subjects, the use of the lancet might certainly be sometimes judiciously omitted ; but, in general, venesection must be deemed a very proper mea- sure. The examination of every subject after death, in conse- quence of this disease, discloses, that inflammation and gangrene are almost infallible consequences of the strangu- lation being continued beyond a certain period. I enter- tain a firth opinion, that Mr. Wilnunyof Coventry, not- withstanding the bad effects which he imagined to arise from bleeding, has only offered a visionary and unfounded theory in explanation of tire cause of death in these cases. Had he been entirely divested of prejudice, it would be difficult to conceive how he could have overlooked the strong and manifest traces of inflammation, apparent in every subject after death. Mr. Wilmer’s idea, that bleed- ing renders the subsequent operation more dangerous, is very ably refuted by Mr. Hey. Mr. Alarison thought, (hat bleeding never promoted the success of the taxis. However, this opinion is contrary to the sentiments of the best writers, and most experienced prac-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 3'3 proved ineffectual. I would only recommend it to be dis- titioners. The authority of Le Dran, Pott, Sabatier, and of a hundred other celebrated surgeons, might be ad- UIn performing the operation, a large opening should be made in the vein, in order that the sudden evacuation of the blood may make the patient faint; for the taxis is ob- served to be particularly successful during a swoon. For the same reason, a liberal quantity of blood should be taken away. Haying bled the patient, it becomes advisable to make another attempt to reduce the parts by the hand: and h taint- ing should occur, this favourable opportunity ought not to be lost. Too often, however, the hernial contents are not to be released from their incarcerated state by such mild treat* rnent. ] calculate, that half an hour would be amply sufficient for putting into practice what has been above recommend- ed, viz. the attempts at reduction by the hand, and bleed- ing. Success not being obtained, I would next recommend the patient to be placed in a warm bath, if one could be spee- dily provided. But though 1 have reduced several her- nia;, while patients have been in this situation, and though 1 place considerable reliance on its efficacy, so perilous does delay appear to me, in these circumstances, that should any great length of time be unavoidably necessary to prepare the bath, I think it would lie most judicious not to remain inactive. The effect of a semicupium being also very uncertain, I would recommend it either to be dis- pensed with entirely, or to be prepared during the trial of other means. I sincerely hope that my words convey my meaning ; and 1 repeat my great reliance in the efficacy of the warm bath, on which account it appears to me wor- thy of a trial, immediately the taxis and phlebotomy have0,4 FIRST lines of the pensed with, when its employment would unavoidably oc- casion much delay. In case a warm bath cannot • speedily be prepared, let not the surgeon tamper with a disease so urgent in its na, lure, so rapid m its progress, and so often fatal from the inert and timorous conduct of the practitioner. Let him not, at all events, consume any material time in trying the effect of clysters and cathartics. The utility of the latter in cases of enferocele may be very rationally questioned. Lveryone, however, will admit, that, in cases of epiplocele, they must be beneficial, and oughtto be administered. In every instance, in which there is reason to believe the strangulated hernia to be of :he intestinal kind, no sooner have the repeated attempts at reduction with the hand, as- sumed by bleeding, and the warm bath, failed, than the sur- geon should immediately try the united effect of cold, ap- plied to the tumour, and of a tobacco clyster, or its fumes introduced into the large intestines. Snow or ice pounded ’ and mixed with salt, and put into bladders, or folded up in linen, should be applied to the swelling. In case these substances could not be obtained, the evaporation ofaither, or spirits, from the surface of the swelling, might be tried as a substitute. Some practitioners prefer tobacco fumes 5 others the de- coction, injected into the rectum. The latter seems to me the most eligible, because the smoke apparatus is frequently out of order, or cannot be immediately obtained. In pre- paring the tobacco clyster, it is very wrong and unneces- sary to lose half an hour in infusing the pl*nt, as is some- times directed. ft Nicotianx 3 j. At|. ferventis j- Thc plant to be macerated ten minutes, and the liquor then strained for use. One half should be first injected, and soon afterwards the other, unless the clyster should operate very violently.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 37? Frequently, during the combined action of the ice and tobacco, the contents of the hernte return spontaneously into the abdomen ; but, at *11 events, the surgeon should make another final effort to reduce the parts by the hand. If this again fails, even when the patient has been da y pu under the influence of the tobacco, and if the symptoms ot strangulation, at the same time, continue to increase, 1 io operation ought undoubtedly to be undertaken withou further delay. *- , ' % . BUBONOCEEE. In this case the parts first protrude (as Mr. Astlcy Cooper has explained) at a part, which is situated about an inch and a half from the abdominal ring, in the direction towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The hernial sac descends through the ring over the sper- matic cord, and is covered by a fascia, sent off from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. Beneath this fas- cia, the cremaster muscle is also situated over the sac. When the hernial sac has descended a certain way, it lies upon the tunica vaginalis, as well as the spermatic cord. The epigastric artery commonly passes between the mouth of the sac and the symphysis pubis. This vessel, the above surgeon observes, runs in some degree under (lie sac, and along its inner side. There is no vessel ot importance either above, or on the outside of this part. In old hernim, however, the internal opening of the pas- sage, through which the parts protrude, becomes situated more opposite the abdominal ring. In consequence of the place, where the viscera first, protrude, being situated in the above manner, Mr. A. Cooper recommends the pads of the trusses to be so constructed as to make pressure upon it. Though the hernial sac commonly lies upon the sper- matic cord, it should be remembered, that there are in- stances recorded, in which the vas deferens and spermatic vessels have been situated in front ot the sac.first lines of the m diseases which ARE most liable to be mistake., TOR A BUBONOCELE. -n?7 afA •the CirC0Cele’ bJ,dro“Ie. bernia humoral!,, and enlarged inguinal glands. °f disciiminalin* «" fin* ewe is eirplauied in tne chapter on circocele. n Jof rrtrbe disiinguis!,ej p«fe* cqun. lily of the whole tumour ; tlm smallness of sperraalio process isthe abseiice of pain „„ handling (hovelling . (Ue fluctuation of the water; the gradual formation of mour; its having begun below, and proOceded upward- its not being affected by any posture or action of the pa.’ t,ent nor mcreased by his coughing; and, lastly, the ab- so ute impossibility of feeling the testicle at the bottom of the scrotum. ’> rV1™ hr°raliS maj bC knPWn V hardened stateof the epidydimis ; the exemption of the spermatic cord from all unnatural fulness, the generally preceding gonorrhoea ; the pain in the testicle and loins ; the weight of the tumour; and the tense, reddish, smooth, shinin^ uncorrugated appearance of the scrotum. An indurated gland may be distinguished from a her, uia by lts being unconnected with the sjiermatic cord and by its circumscribed, incompressible hardness. When >t is in a suppurated state, a fluctuation of matter may be OPERATION POR THE BUBONOCELE. The incision is to commence about a quarter of an inch above the ring; and, unless the tumour be very lar-e it is best to extend the wound nearly to the most depending P'ii ole swelling. This cut, through the skin and cel- lular substance covering the sac, also divides the external pudendal artery, which crosses the hernial sac near the ab- dominal ring, and sometimes bleeds so freely, that it oughtPRACTICE OF SURGERY. a:? at once to be tied. This incision, as Mr. Astley Cooper accurately describes, exposes the fascia, which passes off from the external oblique muscle, and covers the sac. With a pair of dissecting forceps, a portion of the fascia must next'be raised, and a small opening made in it, suffi- cient for the introduction of a director, on which instrument the surgeon is to divide the fascia, upward to within an inch of the abdominal ring, and downward to the end of the first wound. This division of the fascia exposes the creinas'er muscle, which is to be opened precisely in the same manner. The sac being now completely brought into view, the operator is to take hold of some of the cellular substance, which adheres intimately to the anterior inferior part of the sac, with a pair of dissecting forceps, and thus he is to raise the sac itself. Tiien the edge of the knife is to be turned horizontally, and in this way the surgeon is to make an opening just large enough to admit (lie blunt end of a probe, or director, upon which the sac is to be fur- ther divided upward to within an inch of the abdo- minal ring, and downward to the bottom of the tumour. The anterior and inferior part of the sac is selected as the place for making the first opening, because the intestine seldom descends so low; and whenever fluid is contained in the sac, it gravitates to this situation. Mr. Astley Cooper’s reasons for not extending the division of the sac nearer to the ring, are to avoid making the closure of the wound more difficult, and to lessen the danger of perito- neal inflammation. The next object is the division of the stricture. Mr. Cooper directs the surgeon first to introduce Ins finger into the neck of the hernial sac, for the purpose of ascertaining the exact situation of the strangulation, which lie will find either at the abdominal ring, or about one inch and a half from this aperture, in a direction upward and outward ; or, lastly, in the mouth of the heruial sac.FIRST LINES OF THE 378 When the stricture is produced by the .abdominal rin^, the above gentleman recommends the surgeon to pass his finger into the sac, as far as the stricture, and then to convey a probe pointed bistoury, over the front part of the sac, into the ring, -which is next to be divided, in a di- rection upward, opposite the middle of the neck of the sac, and to an extent just sufficient to allow the protruded parts to be returned into the abdomen, without hurtinV them in the act of doing so. The chief advantages of dividing the ring upward, de- pend first on the fabric of tills aperture not being so much weakened as it would be by cutting upward and outward, 60 as to divide the transverse tendinous fibres, which cross its upper part; and, secondly, on the safety of the me-i thod, in regard to the epigastric artery. However, Mr. A. Cooper has explained, that a frequent situation of the stricture is not at the abdominal ring, but at the place where the sac opens into the abdomen ; that is, an inch and a half, or tw'O inches, towards the anterior su- perior spinous process of the ilium from the ring. Here the strangulation is caused by the transversalis muscle and its tendon, which pass over the hernial sac, in a semicir- cular direction, and by a fascia arising from Poupart’s li- gament, the semicircular border of which passes under the sac. In this case the surgeon must introduce his finger in'o the sac, through the abdominal ring, as.far as the stric- ture, and then the probe-pointed bistoury, with the flat part of its blade turned towards the finger, is to be insi- nuated between the front of the sac and the abdominal ring, till it arrives under the stricture, formed by the lower edge of the transversalis and obliquus intern us. Then the edge of the instrument is to be turned forward, and the stricture cut in the direction upward, by which method the epigastrip artery pan scarcely be cut, whatever be its situa*PRACTICE OF SURGERY.. 379 tion in regard lo the sac. The division should only be of such an extent as will allow the finger to pass through the strangulation. Another advantage, attributed by Mr. A. Cooper to not dividing the sac is, that in case the epigastric artery should ever be accidentally wounded, the blood could never be- come extravasated in the abdomen. When the stricture is caused by the neck of the sac it- self, the probe-pointed bistoury must be carefully intro- duced, and a division made directly upward. Haying removed ihe stricture, the next object is to re- turn the protruded parts into the cavity of the abdomen. Nothing but an absolutely gangrenous state of the intestine should deter the practitioner from reducing it; the dark chocolate brown decolourations, with which the protruded part is often affepted, generally produce no permanent mis- chief, and ought to be discriminated from the black purple or lead-coloured spots, which arc the ordinary forerunners of mortification. The intestine is to be reduced before the omentum. The portion nearest the ring should be intro- duced first, and held there by the surgeon’s finger until followed by another portion. It is a point of great importance to examine with the finger after the operation, that the reduced parts are fairly and freely in the abdomen. Recent adhesions of the intes- tines to the inside of the sac may commonly be easily broken by the fingers. When the adhesions arc old the cautious employment of the knife is necessary; if they are sufficiently lung to allow the intestine to be raised a lit- tle from the sac, they may be easily divided. When they are so short, that the inside of the sac and peritoneal coat of the intestines arc in close contact, more ski^l is requisite, and the adherent parts of the sac must be cut off and re- turned into the abdomen, still adhering to the bowels. As soon as the intestine has been reduced, the omentum, if not diseased, is next to be replaced. However, when muchFIRST LINES OF TtlE 382 commence from tire point where the hernia protrudes; that is, let it begin just hbove Poupart’s ligament, a little nearer to the S} mphysis pubis, than the femoral vessels arc, and ltd continued the whole length of the tumour. Any glands, which may lie over the hernia, should be avoided. The sac is still concealed beneath cellular substance, which is here much thicker than where the bubonocele occurs, and beneath aponeurotic fibres, which proceed from the femo- ral fascia, ascend obliquely over the- front of the thigh, and are connected with the lower and external part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle. These fibres must be divided before the hernial sac can be exposed ; but iri doing this some caution is requisite, on account of the fe- moral vessels, whichy though' commonly situated behind the hernial tumour, may be found immediately on the side ot the swelling, when it is very small. The object, how-4 ever, may be safely accomplished with a director, which is to be placed under the fibres before they are cut* The hernial sac is to be opened by means of a pair of dissecting fiorceps and bistoury. The operator is to raise the part by taking hold of the cellular membrane attached to it, aud is then to make a very small aperture by a superficial horizontal cut. Through this opening a director may be introduced, and the surgeon may then safely divide the sac nearly as high as Poupart’s ligament, and quite to the bottom of the tumour. The next object is to divide the stricture; Until very lately practitioners have been in the habit of supposing the stricture, in these cases, to be always caused by Poupart’s ligament, and consequently its division has generally been deemed the chief point of the operation. Le Dran (obs; 57) had long ago observed, in operatingfor a crural hernia, that the closest strangulation was not made by this liga- ment ; and when he divided the neck of the saC, no doubt he cut what Mr. I ley has since named the femdral liga- ment ,■ the part generally producing the pressure on tlieI Practice of surgery. 3&3 t , strangulated viscera. This experienced surgeon was in- duced to examine repeatedly the parts concerned in the formation of the femoral hernia, from having read Gim- bernat’s work, which describes the part really causing the strangulation. Mr. Hey’s account of the femoral ligament is as fol- lows : the parts descend within the aponeurotic sheath, which envelopes the great vessels ol the thigh, and which is strongly attached at its superior part to the os pubis. The anterior layer of this sheath is formed, in part, by a continuation of the fascia of the abdominal muscles passing down upon the thigh. About three-eighths of an inch below Poupart’s ligament there exists in this aponeurotic sheath another ligament, somewhat similar to that ol Poupart, but smaller. It runs transversely, but does flot descend obliquely as that ligament does. On (he contrary, it ra- ther ascends towards the symphysis of the pubis, passing, behind and decussating the extremity ol Poupart’s liga- ment. It docs not lie in the same plane as the latter part, but more deeply. Gimbernat has termed the space beneath Poupart’s liga- ment the crural arch. The anterior crural nerve always passes on the outside of the abovementioned sheath to- wards its external and posterior part. Before the external iliac artery enters it sends off the epigastric. This vessel passes obliquely inward, between the crural arch and '.spermatic vessels. On the inside of the cavity of the sheath, and immediately on the inside of the great iliac vein, there is a foramen, sufficiently distinct, almost round, at which many lymphatics enter. It is sometimes stopped up by a lymphatic gland ; but the parts which form the crural hernia always pass through it, and consequently Gimbernat calls it the crural ring. Having laid open the hernial sac in the manner above recommended, a director should next be introduced within the crural ring, on that side of the intestine, or omentum,FIRST LINES CF THE 3S4 which is nearest to the symphysis of the pubis, and an in- cision shonld be made directly upward (according to Mr. Hey) for the purpose of cutting that part of the ring which this gentleman names the femoral ligament. Cim- bernat recommends introducing a director into the ring, with its back towards the intestine and its groove towards the symphysis pubis. Along the groove a narrow, probe- pointed bistoury is to be introduced into the ring, to divide the internal edge of the femoral ligament closely to the pubis. UMBILICAL HERNIA, OR EXOMPHALOS. The viscera protrude either through the navel or through 0 tD an opening in its. vicinity, produced by a breach in the fibres forming the linea alba. Ihe umbilical hernia is more common in children than adults, doubtless, because the navel becomes less capable of dilatation, in proportion to the length of time after birth. Women who are pregnant, or who have borne many chil- dren, and all subjects who are exceedingly fat, or afflicted with dropsy, are particularly liable to the umbilical hernia. Owing to the gradual manner, in which the disease usually originates, and to the largeness of the opening, through which the viscera protrude, the exomphalos is very seldom attended with strangulation. Hence, it is of the highest importance to be aware, that though patients having this kind of rupture, are very often affected with symptoms of disorder of the stomach and bowels, the indisposition, in most instances, does not proceed from the existence of strangulation. When practicable, this rupture should be reduced and supported by a truss, and in young subjects a radical cure Sometimes follows the continued use of this instrument. The best truss for umbilical hernia is described by Mr. Hey. It consists of two pieces of thin elastic steel, which' - * \ : , tl * £ ■ ? .A/T CJlells balls for examining Strictures.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 38* surround the sides of the abdomen, and nearly meet be- hind . At their anterior extremity they form conjointly an oval ring, to one side of which is fastened a steel spring. At the end of this spring is placed the pad, or bol- ster, which is to press upon the hernia. By the elasticity. of the spring the parts disposed to protrude are retained within the abdomen in every position of the body. A piece of calico is fastened to each side of the oval ring, having a continued loop at its edge. Through this loop a piece of tape is to be drawn, and fastened round the pa- tient’s body, so as to preserve the instrument in its pro- per situation.* I shall not introduce an account of the radical cure of the exomphalos by a ligature ; the plan may now be con- sidered as completely exploded. The only modern ap- proved method of trying to accomplish a perfect cure is compression, and no bandage can execute this so well as the truss abovementioned. When an operation is unavoidable, and the hernia is large and of long standing, the whole sac should not b<j opened. An incision, about three inches in length, made through the integuments covering the upper part of the tumour, would be quite sufficient to enable the operator either to open and dilate the mouth of the sac directly up- ward, or merely to divide the linea alba immediately above the tumour in the same direction. However cases may occur, in which the strangulation may arise from the pressure produced on the intestine by the thickened omentum in the sac, and in which it would be necessary to expose freely the contents of the tumour, and to remove the diseased omentum. The only instance in which I have seen an operation performed was of this kind ; and no dilatation of the aperture, through which the parts had protruded, was requisite. * Plate VIII. fig. 1. c cFIRST LINES OF TIIE 3S6 CONGENITAL HERNIA. In this case the intestine, or omentum, is situated in contact ■with the testicle, and consequently in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, which forms, as it were, the hernial sac. The occurrence of this particular hernia arises from the change of situation, which the testis undergoes in the foetal state. This part, originally formed and situated in the loins, descends into the scrotum about the eighth or ninth month. The bag-, which is destined to make the future tunica vaginalis, is a production of peritoneum, situated in the groin under the integuments, and in the foetus always has an open communication with the abdomen. After the descent of the .testis, the opening through which it passed becomes closed and obliterated. But occasionally this cir- cumstance is hindered from taking place by the intrusion of a piece ol intestine, or omentum into the tunica vagi- nalis. In the congenital hernia the testicle cannot be distinctly felt on the outside of the tumour, at its inferior and poste- rior part, as it can in other cases. In this instance it lies in the same cavity in which the protruded viscera are situated, and consequently can only be felt in a very obscure manner. The tunica vaginalis also frequently contains at the same time a fluid, so that a fluctuation is perceptible, and the disease is liable to be mistaken for a hydrocele. Mr. Astley Cooper states, that this complication may be ascertained by returning all the contents of the tumour into the cavity of the abdomen, when the patient is in a horizontal posture, and then on putting the finger against the abdominal ring, the water will insinuate itself into the scrotum, so as to produce a kind of hydrocele. If the pressure of the finger is now di- minished, and the patient is desired to cough, the intestine and omentum will be felt falling down into their former situation.f f PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ’ treatment. . 1 • s The congenital hernia, when returnable, ought like all other ruptures to be reduced,, and constantly kept up b} a proper bandage; and when strangulated, its treatment, does not materially differ from that of common herniae. When the testicle, however, has not completely descend- ed, a truss should not he worn, as it would prevent this part from arriving in its proper situation. In performing an operation to relieve a strangulated congenital hernia, the tunica vaginalis is to be opened in the same manner as a common hernial sac, and the stric- ture divided either directly upward, or upward and out- ward. . ■, The surgeon should examine with his finger, to ascertain whether the incarceration is produced by the transversalis, or by the orifice of the tunica vaginalis. In the first case the bistoury need not, in Mr. A. Cooper’s opinion, be in- troduced within the neck of the latter part. HERNIA or THE BLADDER. This case differs from every other species of hernia, in having no hernial sac covering the protruded viscus. The peculiarity is entirely owing to the bladder being actually situated on the outside of the cavity of the peritoneum, it is true this membrane, w here it forms a kind of a parti- tion, between the abdomen and pelvis, covers the fundus and posterior surface of the bladder as far as the insertion of.the ureters ; but when, by the reiterated pressure of the neighbouring parts, this viscus is made to protrude through one of the abdominal wings, its anterior, or rather lateral part, will be the first to make its exit, in consequence of being nearest the aperture. But before the protrusion takes place, the above part of the bladder must separate that portion of the peritoneum which lines the inside of the abdominal ring. The ante- c c 2 *FIRST LINES OF THE 388 1 / nor part of the viscus, having once entered the opening, the posterior one must necessarily follow, together with the portion of peritoneum attached to it, and to the fundus of this organ. Thus the continuous part of this membrane, lining the abdominal ring, will become in the end dragged, so as to occasion a pouch, following the portion of the bladder which forms the hernia. In intestinal and omental ruptures the hernial sac always precedes the viscera ; but in the case of cystocele the bladder is first protruded, and the peritoneum follows it. The peritoneal pouch following the displaced bladder being empty, and its cavity communicating with the ab- domen, it is easy to conceive how a hernia of this organ should sometimes be complicated with one of the omentum or intestines. In most instances the spermatic cord lies behind the above pouch, but Le Dran and others have met with it situated in front. The diagnosis of the cystocele must be rendered suffi- ciently manifest by the regular subsidence of the tumour whenever the patient makes water, and by his being ob- liged to compress the swelling, in order to accomplish this evacuation with ease. TREATMENT. While recent this hernia is easily reducible, and may be kept up by a bandage, or truss ; but when of long stand- ing, or large size, the outer surface of the bladder has be- come adherent to the surrounding parts, and the patient must be contented with a suspensory bag. The rarer sorts of hernim cannot be treated of consistently with the plan of the present publication.339 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. CHAP. XXXV. HYDROCELE. OF this disease there are three principal kinds ; one, in which the fluid is lodged in the cellular texture of the scro- tum ; another, in which it is contained in the tunica va- ginalis ; and a third, in which the fluid collects in the spermatic cord. The first sort is strictly only an anasarcous swelling of the scrotum, and a symptom of a dropsical affection of the whole system.' The two other kinds are absolutely local, generally attack one side only, and are frequently found in persons, who are perfectly free from all other complaints. The case, in which the water is contained in the cellular texture of the scrotum, if a symptom of dropsy belongs to the province of the physician, and if ever a local affection, it requires nothing more to be said concerning it, than what is contained in the chapter on (Edema. HYDROCELE OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. SYMPTOMS. The symptoms of this complaint are a colourless, smooth, roundish, pyriform, sometimes oblong swelling, which slowly and gradually extends upward from the lower part of thescrotum. ' The tumour does not disappear on pres- sure. At first it is soft and fluctuating ; and on the fingers being removed, it immediately rises to its former level. The swelling cannot' be diminished, nor pushed into the cavity of the abdomen, by any artifice of the surgeon. When the disease is more advanced, a,nd has attained a larger size, the tumour becomes oblong, heavy, and hard, though much less so than in the case of an enlarged testi- cle. At the same time the fluctuation grows less distinct.■390 » first lines of the • > i If the fluid contained in the tunica vaginalis be clear, this membrane not much thickened, and a candle be placed be- hind the tumour, the scrotum has a semi-transparent ap- pearance. At last, the hydrocele so conceals the testicle, that this body can only be distinguished, at the upper and back part of the tumour, by a certain hard feel. The spermatic cord, however, is still quite obvious to the touch. Though the swelling may have acquired its greatest size, and the scrotum be considerably distended, the corrugations of the latter part are seldom so obliterated as in the anasarcou$ hydrocele. The penis seems small, and, as it were, sunk in the tumour. The integuments of the scrotum also acquire an increased thickness ; the veins appear large, and there is rather a sense of elasticity than of fluctuation, communicated to the surgeon’s fingers. The spermatic cord itself even becomes somewhat con- cealed, when the hydrocele has ascended very far. In these cases, the tunica vaginalis always becomes more and more thickened, which change is common to all mem- branes when they are long distended. TREATMENT. The h}rdrocele of the tunica vaginalis is relieved either in a palliative or radical manner. ‘*r ; • 1 . I PALLIATIVE CUKE. / This consists in merely puncturing the tumour with a lancet, or trocar, for the purpose of evacuating the fluid. The latter instrument, when small, is always to be prefer- red, as the cannula facilitates the escape of the water, and prevents its diffusing itself in the cellular texture of the scrotum. The palliative treatment ought first to be prac- tised, when the hydrocele is of an immense size, and the radical cure should not be undertaken, till the tumour has acquired about two-thirds of ils former magnitude. When the radical cure of a very large and extremely tense hy«301 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. droccle is at once practised, the succeeding pain and in- flammatory symptoms often rnn to an unnecessary height. From the above account of the disease it must be clear, that the proper place for introducing the trocar is at the anterior and lower part of the tumour, this spot being commonly the most remote from the testicle. A small piece of soap plaster should be put on the punc- ture, and a bag truss worn after the operation. RADICAL CURE. This is accomplished by evacuating the fluid, and ex- citing such a degree of inflammation in the tunica vagina- lis and testicle as shall lead to an universal adhesion of this' membrane to the tunica albuginea, and consequently occa- sion a complete obliteration of that cavity, in which the water was collected. The object may be achieved by a seton, by caustic, by an incision, or by distending the cavity of the tunica va- ginalis with a proper kind of injection. SETON. Mr. Pott used to give the preference to this method. The tumour is to be pierced, and the fluid discharged by means of a trocar in t,lie common way. A seton-cannula is then to be passed through that of the trocar, until it reaches the upper part of the tunica vaginalis. This done, a Sharp-pointed eye probe, armed with a seton, is to be conveyed through the latter cannula ; the tunica vaginalis and integuments are to be pierced by its point, and the seton to be drawn through the cannula, until a sufficient quantity is brought out at the upper orifice. The two cannulaeare then to be withdrawn. The patient is to be put to bed, and may take twenty or twenty-five drops of the tinct. opii. CAUSTIC. The kali pururn cum calcc viva is usually employed \FIRST LINES OF THE 392 with it an eschar is made along the whole front of the tu- mour, about half an inch broad. This method may now be considered as entirely exploded ; when the eschar sepa- rates the opening seldom, extends into the tunica vaginalis, and an instrument must after all be employed to discharge the fluid. The destruction of a part of the scrotum is quite unnecessary ; and the operation is both more pain- ful and less certain in its effect, than any of the others aboyementioned. INCISION. The anterior and inferior part of the tumour is to have a, puncture made in it, of sufficient size to enable the opera- tor to introduce the end of his fore finger into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. This he should do immediately, and before the fluid is all discharged, and the tunica vaginalis collapsed. Then, with a blunt-pointed curved bistoury, the tunica vaginalis may be safely divided throughout its whole length. When the tunica vaginalis is very much diseased, this method has the advantage of allowing the operator to re- move any part ot tlie thickened indurated membrane, .rifter the operation the wound is to be covered with a small quantity of fine lint, over which a pledget is to be placed. This plan of cure is certainly superior to that by caustic ; but it is not so good as the employment of a seton, in the way recommended by Mr. Pott. INJECTION. The Hydrocele is to be tapped with a trocar at its ante- rior and inferior part, and as soon as the fluid is entirely discharged, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is to be dis- tended to its former dimensions with an injection, com- posed of two parts of red wine, and one of warm water. 1 he injection is to be allowed to remain in the part aboutPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 393 five minutes, after which it is to be discharged through the trocar. The public are indebted to Sir James Earle for his having brought the mode of curing hydroceles by an injection, into a state of great perfection. The fluid is recommended by this gentleman to be injected into the tunica vaginalis through a pipe, one end of which is made to fit the can- nula of a trocar, the other adapted to receive the neck of an elastic bottle, with a valve or ball in the centre of the pipe, to permit the entrance, and prevent the exit of the injection. Sir James has found the latter contrivance in- finitely more convenient than a stop cock, which requires a hand to turn it. When the tunica vaginalis is suffi- ciently distended, the body of the syringe may be removed. The cure by injection is that, which is now generally preferred by the best English surgeons. The treatment of the local inflammation, afterany of the above operations, is similar to that of the hernia humoralis, on w hich subject we shall very soon offer a chapter. Sometimes the tunica vaginalis contains a good deal of fluid, in consequence of there being a preternatural com- munication between it and the peritoneum. This case is termed the congenital hydrocele. Desault used to cure this complaint by a red wine injection. If any viscera were protruded from the abdomen, he used to reduce them, and .then tap the hydrocele in the common manner. An as- sistant at the same time w as employed in making pressure, so as to close the communication between the tunica va- ginalis and abdomen. 1 hen the injection was introduced, and allowed to remain a short time, after which it was let out, and a truss Applied to keep any of the visccrA from descending. The French state, that this operation is suc- cess! ul, and does not produce any inflammation in the abdomen. HYDROCELE OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. In some instances this is an cedematous affection of the. FIRST LINES OF TI1E whole ox the cellular substance of the spermatic cord; in others, the fluid is confined to one or more cavities within the sheath of the spermatic vessels. The first case is term- ed simply hydrocele of the spermatic cord; the second, encysted hydrocele of this part. The first complaint is not a very common one, does not cause much inconvenience, unless when very large, is usually mistaken for a varix of the spermatic cord, or an adherent omental hernia, and seldom leads the patient to do any thing else, than wear a suspensory bandage. W hen the disease is of a moderate size, the scrotum ap- pears quite healthy, except that when not corrugated, it seems rather fuller, and hangs rather lower on that side than on the other. The testicle can be distinctly felt, below this fulness, quite unenlarged. The spermatic cord feels consi- derably enlarged, as it its vessels were varicose, or (here existed an irreducible epiplocele. The tumour is broader at the bottom, than at the top. It seems to diminish when compressed, but immediately resumes its former size, when this pressure is discontinued, and as easily in a supine as in an erect posture. There is a very trivial uneasiness, not in the swelling itself, but in the loins. W hen very large, the complaint creates considerable de- lormity and inconvenience. The only mode of radically curing (he disease is making an incision into the tumour from the abdominal ring down to the testicle. Unless the disease were very large and troublesome, the patient should be content with a suspensory bandage. ENCYSTED HYDROCELE OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. This most frequently occupies the middle part of the cord, between the testicle and groin, and is generally of an oblong shape. It is so tense, that the fluctuation of the water within it cannot always be easily distinguished. It is perfectly circumscribed, and occasions no pain. The395 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. testis and epididymis can be distinctly felt below the tu- mour quite independent of it. The upper part of the cord in the groin is usually very distinguishable. As Mr. Pott observes, it undergoes no alteration from change of posture, nor is it affected by coughing. The functions of the alimentary canal are not disturbed by it. Infants are much more subject to (his disease, than adults.' In the former, the fluid may often be dispersed by aperient medicines and fomentations. If it should not yield to this treatment, a small puncture, sufficient to evacuate the fluid, commonly produces a cure. In adults, it is some- times requisite to make an incision through the whole length of the tumour- Perhaps, it might be better to have recourse to the red wine injection, after discharging the fluidby means of a very small trocar. CUAP. XXXVI. H.'EMATOCELE. THIS signifies a swelling of (he scrotum, or spermatic cord, occasioned by blood. The disease is of four kinds, two of which have their -seat in the tunica vaginalis ; one within the albuginea, and the fourth in the membrane investing the spermatic vessels. J. In letting out the water of a hydrocele a vessel is sometimes wounded. Aflcr the operation the blood insi- nuates itself partly into the tunica vaginalis, and partly into the cellular substanceof the scrotum, so as to form, in a very short time, a tumour nearly equal in size to the original hydrocele. The blood colours the fluid of the hydrocele, when it is flowing through the cannula.396 FIRST LINES OF THE 2. Another species is when the blood is effused in conse- quence of a spontaneous rupture of a vessel after the ope- ration, and it is entirely confined to the cavity of the tu- nica vaginalis. The fluid of the hydrocele is not tinged with blood when discharged. 3. In the third kind of haematocele, the blood is extra- vasated within the tunica albuginea, from the vessels of the glandular part of the testicle. 4. The fourth arises from a rupture of a branch of the spermatic vein. TREATMENT. The two first cases may generally be cured by opening the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, removing the effused blood, and applying dry lint to the inside of the membrane. If the quantity of blood were very small, discutients might disperse it, and do away all necessity for operating. The two other cases are less frequent. The third arises from a morbid state of the substance of the testicle, and can only be cured by castration. The last species of haematocele, or that arising from a rupture of the spermatic vein, is generally caused by great or sudden exertions, contusions, &c. When the case is clearly distinguished from a hernia, attempts must be made to promote the absorption of the extravasated blood, by applyingto the tumour the sal am- moniac lotion, or even camphorated liniments. About twice a week a purgative should also be exhibited. If (he case should obstinately resist such treatment, a thing which can hardly occur, an incision must be made into the tumour, and the bleeding point being discovered, it should either be tied, or stopped w ith a dossil of hut.397 PRACTICE OF SURGERY- CHAP. XXXVII. DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE; SARCOCELE. THIS is the term applied to every chronic, fleshy, en- largement of the testicle. Hence not only several kinds of sarcoma affecting this body, and noticed in the chapter on that subject, acquire this name, but also some diseases of the testicle, generally considered to be scrophulous. Even scirrhus and cancer, when situated in this part, have been improperly blended with numerous other morbid affec- tions, and comprehended under one common title,s«rcoce/e. It seems quite unnecessary to insert here an account of sarcomatous diseases of the testicle ; for they have no pe- culiarity in them, except what arises from their situation. The testicle is particularly liable to the common vascular, cystic, and medullary sarcoma, and each of these species has been described in the chapter on sarcomatous tumours. The testicle is sometimes converted into a truly scrophu- lous mass. It is enlarged in size; and when cut into, a whitish or yellowish coagulated matter is discovered, mix- ed with pus. This complaint is not attended with so much pain and induration as a scirrhous disorder of the testicle, nor does it produce any unfavourable state of the health. As Dr. Baillie observes, the testicle is often found con- verted into a hard mass, of a brownish colour, and genc- rally intersected by membranes. Sometimes there are cells in the tumour, filled with a sanious fluid. This is the truly scirrhous testicle, which is attended with great hardness, severe pains, darting along the spermatic cord to the loins, and an unequal, knotty feel. The health commonly be- comes impaired. To use Mr. Pott’s words, sometimes the fury of the disease brooks no restraint; but making its598 FIRST LINES OF THE way through all the membranes -which envelope ttie testi- cle, it either produces a large, foul, stinking, phagedenic ulcer with hard edges, or it thrusts forth a painful glect- ing fungus, subject to frequent hemorrhage. These latter states of the disease are denominated the cqncer of the testis,. , Sooner or later the scirrhous induration extends from the epididymis upward along the spermatic cord, even within the abdominal ring. In the latter circumstance, the lym- phatic glands in the loins usually become diseased; and this extension of mischief, together with the impossibility of removing (be whole of the diseased cord, too frequently deprive the patient of every chance of getting well. It is now well known, that the most simple sarcomatous enlargements of the testicle are capable of assuming, in a very sudden manner, a malignant and cancerous tendency ; and that sometimes the scirrhous induration of the cord makes a rapid progress upward. Hence that surgeon acts with prudence, who recommends an early extirpation of every testis that is incurably diseased, and so deprived of its original organization, as to be totally unfit for the secre- tion of the semen. r Chronic enlargements of the testicle are sometimes at- tended with an accumulation of limpid fluid in the tunica vaginalis, and the disease is then termed hydro-sarcocele., From what I have seen of savcoceles, 1 am entirely of opi- nion with Mr. Pott, that the man who has the misfortune to be thus afflicted has very little chance of getting rid of the disease by any means but extirpation ; and all the time the operation is deferred, he carries about him a part not only useless and burdensome, but which is every day liable to become worse, and unfit for such an operation. As leaving a man with a malignantly diseased testicle, quite unassisted to meet his lingering fate, is a very serious step, all surgeons ought to be well apprised, that every en- largement of the spermatic cord, in these cases, is not ofPfiACTICE OF SURGERY. , 399 that particular description, which amounts to a prohibi- tion of an operation. One enlargement of the cord is perfectly free from malig- nancy, and proceeds either from a varicose dilatation of the spermatic veins and arteries, or from a collection of fluid in the membrane enveloping the said vessels. In this case, the cord, though enlarged, is smooth, soft, and compressf- ble; the whole process is loose and free, and will easily per-. Jiiit the fingers of an examiner to go all round it, und to distinguish the parts of which it is composed; and it is not painful when touched. In that morbid state of the cord, in which the operation is forbidden, the part is unequally hard and knotty ; the parts of which it consists are undistinguishably blended together; and handling it occasions pains, shooting up to the loins and back. There is a particular affection of the testicle, in which a fungus grows from the glandular substance of this body, and, in some cases, from the surface of the tunica albugi* noa. I his excrescence is usually preceded by an enlarge- ment of the testicle, in consequence of a bruise, or some species of external violence. ' A small abscess takes place and bursts, and from the ulcerated opening the fungus gradually protrudes. If, when the inflammatory affection of the testicle has subsided, the substance ot this body should not be much indurated or enlarged, it is a very rational practice to en- deavour to extirpate the fungus, and diseased portion of the testis, without removing the whole of this body. The object may sometimes be fulfilled by destroying the fungus with the lapis infernalis. But, at all events, the fungus, and whatever superficial portion of the substance ot the testicle is also diseased, might be removed with a knife. Such an operation has very lately been performed with success in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, by Sir James Earle.400 FIRST LINES OF THE Though this seems to be judicious practice,-when the or- ganization of a considerable part of the testicle is hot to- tally subverted by disease, and particularly when the fun- gus grows entirely from the tunica albuginea; yet if the whole substance of the testicle were so diseased, that the part would still be an useless and troublesome mass, though Ae fungus were removed, the surgeon ought undoubtedly to perform castration. It frequently happens, that the tunica vaginalis becomes very much thickened, indurated, and even cartilaginous, at the same time that its cavity is filled with fluid. The feel of the tumour is very apt to deceive the surgeon, and to make him suppose the case to be a hydro-sarcocele, while, in fact, the testis itself is perfectly sound. I have seen several preparations of this disease in anatomical mu- seums, and, in general, the parts had been injudiciously removed by castration. This is one kind of hydrocele, for which the radical cure by an incision is the best; because the surgeon is thereby enabled to cut away the hardened tunica vaginalis, and to ascertain with his own eyes the actual state of the testicle. o 1 • CHAP. XXXVIII.. CASTRATION. - THE incision should commence a little above the place where the operator purposes to divide the spermatic cord, and it should be continued nearly to the bottom of the tu- mour. The generality of surgeons next make a short inci- sion on each side of the place where they intend to divide the cord, in order to detach this part from the adjoining fat, a«nd to be able to put their finger under it. This being401 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. done, (hey introduce a 'ligature under the cord, and tie it in a very firm manner. At the moment of doing this, the patient is put to excruciating lorture ; such suffering, in- deed, as few can endure without complaint, let their forti- tude be ever so great. A very considerable part of (his agony is known to arise from including the vas deferens in the ligature. As this vessel can always be distinctly felt, by reason of its firm structure, at the back part of the cord, as it can always be most easily separated from the rest of this process, and no good whatever can possibly result from tying it; the sur- geon who puts the patient to unnecessary pain by includ- ing the whole spermatic cord in the ligature, is highly re- prehensible. At all events, it is his duty to leave out the vas deferens. A common aneurism needle is the most con- venient instrument for introducing the ligature, which is afterwards to be firmly tied. But when the spermatic cord is free from disease, and it is unnecessary to divide it near the abdominal ring, there is a method of proceeding still better than that which I have already mentioned. Desault, and several other excellent modern surgeons, have shewn in their practice, that, under such circumstances, the spermatic cord may be safely di- vided with a knife at once, the hemorrhage being stopped by the surgeon firmly holding the upper end of the di- vided part between his finger and thumb, until the arteries have been tied in the common way, with the assistance of a pair of forceps. However, if the surgeon should prefer tying the cord, let him never neglect to leave the vas deferens out of the ligature: having done this, he is to pass a curved bistoury under the whole cord, and divide it below where it is tied. The rest of the operation is extremely simple. It merely consists in dividing the loose cellular substance, which connects the testicle with the inside of the scrotum. Ih d n402 FIRST LINES OF TIIE performing this easy task, it is proper to incline the edge of the knife towards the tumour, which, after the division of the cord, may be considered as dead, and destitute of sensation. If any artery in the cavity of the scrotum should bleed freely, it ought to belied before the wound is closed. The edges of the incision are to be brought together with sticking plaster; over which a pledget, compress, and the T bandage are to be applied. Sometimes after (he patient is put to bed bleeding takes place ; and if the wound be opened, no particular bleeding point can be discovered. 1 have generally observed, that the application of cokl water to the scrotum, bv means of wet linen, -placed over the adhesive plaster, is the best way of checking this kind of hemorrhage. CHAP. XXXIX. CIRCOCELE AND VARICOCELE. TlIE latter term implies nothing more than a preterna- tural dilatation of the blood vessels of the scrotum. These, like the Vessels in other parts of the body, are liable to be- come varicose; but they are seldom so much enlarged as to be troublesome, unless such enlargement is the conse- quence of a disease either of the testicle, or of the sperma- tic cord. In this circumstance, the original disease claims our attention, and not this simple effect of it; and there- fore, as Mr. Pott observes, the varicocele, considered ab- stractedly, is a disease of no importance. The circocelc is a varicose distention and enlargement of the spermat ic veins. It frequently occasions great uneasi- ness, and sometimes a wasting of the testicle. It is com-403 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. monly limited to that part of the spermatic cord which is below the abdominal ring; and the vessels are generally larger the nearer they are to the testicle. The enlargement of the'spcrmatic veins is more fre- quently mistaken for an omental hernia than any otner dis- ease. A friend of mine, who was in the army in Bengal, put himself to the expence of returning to England, incon- sequence of his having been told by the surgeons in India that he had a rupture, while, in fact, his complaint was merely a varix of the spermatic veins; Circocele, as Mr. Astley Cooper remarks, in his book on the inguinal hernia * resembles, in several respects, the lat- ter disease. When large it dilates upon coughing ; and it appears in an erect, and retires in a recumbent, posture of the body. The above surgeon observes, that there is only one sure method of distinguishing the two complaints: place the patient in a horizontal posture, and empty the swelling by pressure upon the scrotum. Then put the fingers firmly upon the upper part of the abdominal ring, and desire the patient to rise : if it is a hernia the tumour cannot reappear as long as the pressure is continued at the ring; but if a circocele, the swelling returns with increas- ed size, on account of the return of blood into the abdo- men being prevented by the pressure. Circocele is attended w ith a sense of weight in the scro- tum ; an unequal knotty swelling; and, if the disease af- fects the whole corpus pampiniforme, with a feel that seems to arise from a bundle of ropes or cords. Excepting the uneasy sensation of weight in the scrotum, the recent cir- cocele is productive of very trivial, or even no inconve- nience. Butin an advanced state of the disease very se- vere pains gradually come on, sometimes extending up- ward to the back and loins, and downward to the thigh. treatment of circocele. A radical cure can seldom be effected. When the dis> a n 2FIRST LINES OF THE 404 order occasions pain, cold, saturnine, and alum, lotions should be applied over the testicle and cord ; blood should be repeatedly taken away by means of leeches ; the bowels should be kept gently open ; the patient should be placed in a horizontal posture; and the testicle should be support- ed by a bag truss. ' In ordinary cases, supporting the testicle by this kind of suspensory bandage-, is the only thing, to which the patient finds it necessary to attend. One can hardly suppose a case so severe, and incapable of palliation, as to require the performance of castration, though such instances are mentioned by very good au- thors. CHAP. XL. HERNIA H UMORALIS, OR INFLAMED TESTICLE. THE first symptom is generally a soft, pulpy, fulness ot the body ot the testicle, which is exceedingly tender when handled. This fulness increases'to a hard swelling, accompanied with considerable pain. The hardest part is commonly the epididymis, and principally the lower por- tion of it, as may be distinctly felt. The spermatic cord is olten affected, and particularly the vas deferens, which is thickened, and painful when touched. The spermatic veins, according to Mr. Hunter, sometimes become vari- cose. A severe pain in the loins is usually attendant on the complaint. The scrotum in consequence of the disten- tion which it suffers, becomes smooth, loses its corrugated appearance, and becomes redder, than in the healthy state. The causes of inflammation of the testicle arc, for thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 40.5 most pari, similar to such as excite this affection in oilier parts. A bruise may occasion a hernia huinprn*Iis ; we see it purposely caused by (he surgeon, when he underlakes the radical cure of a hydrocele. But (liemost common cause of tin's complaint is irritation of the urethra. Hence it more frequently arises in consequence of a gonorrhoea than any other cause; and persons with very bad stric- tures, for which they arc using bougies, are very much ex- posed to its attack. It is very remarkable, that in cases of gonorrhoea, the pain in making water, and the quantity of the discharge, are almost always very suddenly diminish- ed, as soon as the testicle begins to enlarge; the discharge, indeed, is frequently quite stopped. This curious circum- stance has attracted a great deal of attention, and has been repeatedly adduced by theorists as a proof of the metastasis of a disease, or of a sympathy between the testicle and urethra. Jjeaving these abstruse points to the considera- tion ot such readers as may feel inclined to theorize upon the subject, I shall rest contented with merely knowing and mentioning the fact, that the occurrence of hernia hu- moralis usually produces a sudden, and considerable, di- minution, and even a total cessation, of the strangury, and discharge from the urethra, in cases of gonorrhoea. This amendment, in the latter complaint, continues till the ve- hemence of the hernia humoralis has abated, and then the pain in making water, and the copious discharge, fre- quently recur. In a few cases, the swelling of the testicle is not followed by any diminution of the discharge from the urethra. I TREATMENT OF HERNIA HUMORALIS. 1 lie patient should be kept perfectly quiet, and in a bo. rizontal posture in bed. If he be young and robust, the swelling ol the part considerable, and the pain in the loins very violent, phlebotomy may be practised. In almost every case, however, bleeding with leeches is to be repeat-FIRST LINES OF THE 406 edly put into practice, and saline purgative medicines ad- ministered. As far as my own observations extend, fomen- tations and poultices prove more beneficial than cold sa- turnine lotions. But an object of the highest importance is to keep the testicle constantly supported, by means of a bag truss, or suspensory bandage. This often relieves the violent pain in the loins, in a very surprising manner, and is a measure, which should never be neglected. Mr. Hunter states, that emetics have been known to re- move the swelling almost instantaneously. Without giv- ing full credit to the literal meaning of this observation, it is very certain, that the great degree of swelling, in cases of hernia humoralis, often occurs and subsides more ra- pidly, than in any other inflammatory affection whatever. When the pain in the part and loins is unusually vehe- ment, opiates become necessary. After the inflammation is completely subdued, the indu? ration of the epididymis commonly remains. Sometimes this may be lessened by frictions with camphorated mer- curial ointment; but, in general, more or less of the hard- ness continues during life. Mr. Hunter suspected, that some testicles, which remain indurated at the epididymis, are rendered totally useless, by the cavity of the latter part being in an impervious state. CHAP. XLI. CANCER SCROTI, OR CHIMNEY SWEEPERS’ CANCER. THIS disease always mahes its first appealance in the inferior part of the scrotum, where, as Mr. Pott observes, b produces a superficial, painful, ragged, ill-docking sore,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 407 with hard and rising edges. This eminent surgeon never saw the complaint occur under the age of puberty. In no great length of time, it makes its way completely through the scrotum, and attacks the testicle, which it enlarges, hardens, and renders thoroughly distempered. Next it extends up the spermatic cprd, contaminating the ingui- nal glands, and parts within the abdominal ring, and then very soon becoming painfully destructive. It is supposed that this terrible malady commonly de- rives its origin from the lodgment of soot in the rug® of the scrotum- Hence, at iirst, it must be entirely pi a local nature. THEATMEXT. Mr. Pott remarks, that if (here be any chance of putting a stop to the above mischief, it must be the immediate re- moval of that part of the scrotum where the sore is; for if it be suffered to remain until the testicle becomes affected, the performance even of castration will generally be too late. Mr. Pott states, that lie has many limes made the experiment, and that though the wound made by such " operation sometimes healed favourably, yet, in the space ot a few months, the patients returned either with the same disease in the other testicle, or in the glands of the groin, or with such a diseased state of the viscera, as scum ended in a painful death. I have never seen this disease materially Ix'uetitcd by any medicines, or topical applicTifioiis; and I am, there- fore, str ugly impressed with the propriety of an early re- moval of the affected part of the scrotum. The loss of a portion of this part can never be attended with future in- convenience ; and, as Mr. Pott very justly observes, it is a very good and easy composition for the preservation of life.FIRST LINES OF THE 408 CHAP. XLII. GONORRHOEA. WHEN an irritating matter of any kind is applied to a secreting surface, the natural secretion becomes increased in quantity, and altered in quality; and when the ordi- nary mucous secretion of the urethra is, in (his manner, changed into a fluid, resembling pus, the disease is named a gonorrhoea. The complaint is commonly supposed to arise in conse- quence of the application of venereal matler to the ure- thra. However, common preternatural discharges from the urethra may result from any kind of irritation in that canal. Strictures, and the employment of bougies, are both very frequent causes of what might be termed a go- norrhoea. When the complaint follows some species of contamina- tion contracted in coition, it usually commences about six, eight, ten, or twelve days afterwards; but it ig capa- ble of affecting some persons much sooner, and others much later. The first symptom is usually an itching at the orifice of the urethra, sometimes extending over the whole glans penis. A little fulness of the lips of the urethra is next observable. Very soon after the discharge has appeared, the itching changes into pain, especially at the time of voiding the urine. The penis, and particularly its glans, seem swollen. The latter part has a transparent appear- ance around the mouth of tlie urethra, the skin seeming distended, smooth, and red, like a ripe cherry. Sometimes the glans is, more or less, excoriated, as well as the begin- ning of the urethra. This canal becomes narrower, as isPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 409 proved by the stream of urine being smaller than com- mon, and the circumstance is owing to two causes, viz. the swollen state of the lining of the canal, and its spasmodic contraction. Small swellings are often observable along the lower surface of the penis, in the course of the uretlira. These were suspected by Mr. Hunter to be the enlarged glands of that, canal. Cowper’s glands in the perineum, in some instances, also inflame and suppurate. The natural discharge from the urethra is first changed from a transparent viscid secretion, to a watery, whitish, pellucid fluid; and this, becoming gradually thicker, as- sumes the appearance of pus. The matter often changes its colour and consistence; sometimes it is almost white, sometimes quite yellow, and in other instances greenish. Mr. Hunter was of opinion, that in ordinary cases the morbid affection of the uretlira did not extend very far along this canal from the orifice, perhaps about an inch and a half, or two inches. This is what he named the specific extent of the inflammation. Besides the symptoms already mentioned, there is a very acute, scalding pain experienced in making water, which can often only be discharged by drops, or in an ex- tremely small broken stream. The patient is also obliged to void his urine very frequently. A variety ot other affections is occasionally produced in the neighbouring par's: pain, soreness, and uneasiness, are sometimes experienced all over the pelvis; and the scrotum, testicles, perineum, anus, and hips, become disa- greeably sensible. The testicles often require being sus- pended, and arc so irritable, that the least exertion makes them swell. The inguinal glands often enlarge; and, in this case, the swelling is termed a sympathetic bubo. The bladder occasionally becomes unusually irritable, and can- not bear the least distention, so that the patient is, almost every five minutes, obliged to make water with violent pain410 FIRST LINES OF THE in the bladder and glans penis. This pain frequently con- tinues after the urine is discharged. o V OF THE POWER OF THE MATTER OF GONORRHOEA TO COMMUNICATE THE VENEREAL DISEASE. The arguments in support of this doctrine arc, first, the probability that the Otaheiteans had the venereal disease propagated to them by European sailors who were affected with gonorrhoea ; for these could hardly be supposed to have a chancre, during a voyage of five months,without the penis being destroyed. Secondly, Mr. Hunter mentions a gentle- man who had a gonorrhoea thrice, of which he was cured without mercury. About two months after each infection he had symptoms of lues venerea. The first were ulcers in the throat; the second were blotches on the skin; both which forms of the disease yielded to mercury. Thirdly, two punctures were made on the penis, with a lancet dip- ped in the matter of a gonorrhoea. One of these produced, on the part of the prepuce w here it was made, a red, thick- ened speck, which increased and discharged some matter. This supposed chancre healed on having its surface re- peatedly destroyed by caustic. The other puncture was made on the glans, where it was followed by a pimple, full of yellowish matter. This pimple was touched with caus- tic, and healed in the same way as the sore on the prepuce. Four months afterwards the chancre on the prepuce broke out again; then it healed, and returned. This it did several times ; but always healed w ithout any application to it. While the sores remained on the prepuce and glans, a bubo formed in the groin. A sufficient quantity of mercury was given to cure the gland locally, but not to prevent the constitution from being affected. Two months afier the cure of the bubo, a venereal nicer,'according to Mr. Hunter, formed on one of the tonsils. This was cured b,y mercury ; but the medicine was purposely left oil' as411 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. aoon as tl,c sore was skinned over, in order to see what parts wonld next be affected. • . About three months afterwards, copper-colonrcd blotches made their appearance in the skin, and the ulcer on the tonsil recurred. This disease was again only palliated J mercury ; but the complaints returned m the same situa- tion as before; and were ultimately cured by a proper quantity of mercury. On the other hand, doubts must exist concerning this account of the matter of gonorrhoea, when the following circumstances are taken into consideration . 1st. It is impossible to say what time may elapse between the application of venereal poison to the penis, and the commencement of ulceration. Therefore, Bougainville’s sailors, alluded toby Mr. Hunter, might have contracted the infection at Rio de la Plata; but actual ulcers on the penis might not have formed till about live months after- wards, when the ship arrived at Otaheite. 2dly. The se- cond argument adduced by Mr. Hunter is certainly incon- clusive. Every ulcer in the throat is not regularly vene- real. A common ulcer may heal while the paiient is using mercury. Hence the cure, apparently accomplished by this medicine, is no proof that the complaint was syphili- tic. Sdly. The last fact of inoculation is undoubtedly very strong. But though the insertion of gonorrhoeal mat- ter, or any other morbid matter, beneath the cuticle, will undoubtedly produce troublesome local complaints, may wc not doubt that the sores, in the above case, were ac- tually venereal ohes ? Can we implicitly depend on the continence of the subject of the above remarkable experi- ments, during the long space of four months, between the healing of the sore on the prepuce, and its recurrence ? If we cannot, the inference, in regard to the power ot go- norrhoeal matter to communicate the venereal disease, re- mains unestablished. How much more conclusive, in this respect, the experiments would have been, had the inocu-■ FIRST L!N£§ OF THE lation been practised on any other part but the penis If the matter of gonorrhoea be capable of communicatino- the venereal disease, why does not the discharge commonly produce chancres on the glands and prepuce, with which parts it must he in contact a very considerable time in every case.' \V by also does not thcpresence ofa chancre frequently cause a gonorrhoea ? If the infection of gonorrhoea, and the venereal disease, be really of the same identical nature, certainly, it seems very extraordinary, that the former com, plaint should receive no benefit from mercury, and the latter disease invariably require this specific remedy. TREATMENT. The gonorrhoea is one of those peculiar diseases, which seem to have no specific remedy, but which, at the same time, have a propensity to get spontaneously well in a certain time. The complaint, however, is evidently of an inflammatory nature ; and though we cannot at once effect a cure, we may palliate the symptoms, and shorten their duration, by adopting certain antiphlogistic means in the first stage of the affection. Linen wet with the saturnine lotion should be kept con- stantly applied to the penis. The patient should keep his bonds well open with saline purges; live more abstemi- ously than common; avoiding spirituous drinks, and all spicy food; and render the quality of his urine as little irritating as possible, by taking in the course of the day copious draughts of some diluting beverage, such as bar- ley water, mucilage ofgum arabic, &c. Alter a few days, some attempt maybe made to alter the action of the vessels of the lining of the urethra, so as gra- dually to incline them to secicic again the healthy mu- cous fluid, with which the canal is naturally lubricated., instead of a purulent discharge. For this purpose astrin- gent injections may be employed. The most common is that containing the zincum vitriol; and for first use notPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 4i3 Hot more Ilian live grains of this salt should be dissolved in four ounces of water. The application may afterwards be gradually strengthened. When this injection does not seem to produce much good, another one, containing the hy drargyrus mu fiat us sometimes answers better. One grain of this substance, in eight ounces of distilled water, forms a fluid sufficiently strong for first employment. Another very good astringent injection is composed of fourteen grains of saccharum saturni, dissolved in eight ounces of water. As injections are only temporary applications, it is evi- dent that they ought to be used very frequently. At first, however, two or three times a day will suffice. The mouth of the syringe should not be pressed against the orifice of the urethra, as it creates a great deal of irritation, and even sometimes ulceration. When the strangury is very severe, and tliere is trouble from nocturnal erections, chorder', &c. opium should be given. ■Excepting opium and the balsam, copaiv., I have never seen any internal medicines produce any manifest good in cases of gonorrhoea. CHAP. XLIII. GLEET, CHORDEE, SYMPATHETIC BUBOES, BLADDER AFFECTED IN GONORRHOEA. \ , . 1 SOMETIMES, after the cure of the specific inflamma- tion of the urethra, upon which gonorrhoea is supposed to depend, a discharge still continues, mid, though unattend- ed with pain, is often exceedingly difficult to cure. A gleet is essentially different from a gonorrhoea in not being in-FIRST LINES OF THE 414 fectious, and in consisting of a discharge, which is com- posed of globules, blended with the mucous secretion of the part. The discharge, in cases of gonorrhoea, on the other hand, has the power of infection, and is composed of globules, mixed with a serous fluid. TREATMENT. Stimulating injections may be tried. Two grains of the Itydrarg. mur., dissolved in eight ounces of distilled wa- ter, form a very suitable application. Injections fre- quently produce a temporary cessation of a gleet, and the complaint soon afterwards recurs. On this account pa- tients should not relinquish their use too soon, on the sup- position of their being permanently well. It is generally advantageous to continue to employ the injection two or three weeks, after the complete stoppage of the discharge. In some instances, sea water makes a more efficacious injec- tion, than any other. It Avas very common formerly to in- troduce bougies, medicated with turpentine or camphor, and about four or five inches long, into the urethra, Avitha view of irritating the lining of this canal, and altering the mode of action in the vessels. HoAvever, the practice has gone a good deal into disuse, and this is a strong test of its not having been productive of more, or e\en so much, effi- cacy as injections, which can be used Avith less trouble. At the same time that injections are employed, the sur- geon may direct the patient to fake thirty drops of the bal- sam. cop ah. thrice a day; or the tinct. catharid., begin- ning Avitli a dose of ten drops thrice a day. If these medi- cines produce no good, though taken regularly for a Aveek or ten days, they may be discontinued, as affording no hope of their becoming useful afterwards. Many gleets will not yield to the above plan of treat- ment. Patients, so circumstanced, may try cold bathing (if possible, in the sea), and rough horse exercise. If de- bilitated, they should take bark and steel internally. Elec-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 415 fricity, and even blistering the skin underneath, the ure- thra, arc recommended in very inveterate' cases. • *- - '* V CIIORDEE. In cases of gonorrhoea, when the inflammation is not confined merely to the surface of the urethra and its glands, but affects the reticular membrane, it produces in the latter part an extravasation of coagulating lymph, which unites the cells together, destroys the power of distention of the corpus spongiosum urethras, and makes it unequal, in this respect, to the corpora cavernosa penis. Hence, a curva- ture takes place, at the time of an erection, aud is termed a chordce. The concavity of the curvature is, generally, at the lower part of the penis. " t TREATMENT. When much inflammation is present, bleeding from the arm, and,mere especially, from the part itself by leeches, is proper. The penis may be exposed to the steam of hot water. Camphorated fomentations and poultices are also very beneficial applications. At the same time, opium aud camphor may be given as internal medicines. When all inflammation has been subdued, the indica- tion is to effect the absorption of the coagulating lymph; and, for this purpose, nothing is better, than friction on the part with camphorated mercurial ointment. SYMPATHETIC BUBO. Gonorrhoea is sometimes attended with a swelling of the inguinal glands, termed a sympathetic bubo. This com- plaint is supposed to originate from mere irritation, and not from the absorption of matter. We know that the lympha- tic glands are capable of becoming inflamed in this man- ner ; for in various diseases we see them frequently swell at a more remote situation from the thoracic duct, than the local complaint, which is the exciting cause of their en-4lG FIRST LINES OF THE largement. The pain, which sympathetic swellings of the glands occasion, is much less, than that arising from the true veneieal bubo. Such swellings also seldom suppu- rate. Mr. Hunter was of opinion, that a real venereal bubo might sometimes tako place, in a case of gonorrhoea, in consequence of the absorption of matter. TREATMENT. W hatever may be the nature of the sympathetic bubo, certain it is, that mercury is by no means necessary in the treatment. The swelling may be reduced by the repeated application of leeches, and keeping up a continual evapo- ration from the part, by means of linen, wet in the satur- nine lotion. In short-, the case is to be treated as a simple phlegmonous inflammation. BLADDER AFFECTED IN GONORMItEA. Opiate clysters, the warm bath, phlebotomy, if the pa- tient be young and robust, and leeches applied to the peri- neum, are the most eligible measures to be adopted. In cases, in which the alfection continues very long, an opiate plaster may be applied to the loins, or a small blister to the perineum. When the irritability of the bladder exists alone, and for a long while, opiate clysters, cicuta, bark, seabathing, and a blister on the perineum, are proper. A scruple, or half a dram of the powder of uva ursi, has been recommended to be given, three times a da}7, when the bladder is extremely irritable, in consequence of a go~ norrheea.4:7 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. CHAP. XLIV. PHYMOSIS AND PARAPHYMOSIS. WHEN the opening of the prepuce is so much con* traded, that this part cannot be drawn backward, the complaint is termed phymosis. On the other hand, when the prepuce is drawn backward, behind the glans, and cannot be brought forward again, the malady receives the name of paraphymosis. These diseases arise from a thickening of the cellular substance of the prepuce, in consequence of some species ot irritation. This is most frequently produced by a chancre; but it is also very often the result of a common gonorrhoea, or ol inflammation and excoriations beneath the prepuce, which are common in persons, who neglect cleanliness, and allow the natural sebaceous secretions to lodge, and become acrid. The inflammation of the pre- puce is sometimes vehement, and of the erysipelatous kind, i he pait often has an anasarcous appearance, owing to the extravasation of serum. Many persons are born with a contraction of the aperture of the prepuce; and the phymosis is then called a natural one. 1 he paraphymosis very frequently follows the phymo- sis, by the prepuce being improperly drawn backward be- hind the glans. In this circumstance the constricted part ot the prepuce acts as a ligature round the body of the pe- nis, and retards the return of blood from the glans, and the portion of the prepuce beyond the stricture. Hence an cedematous inflammation attacks the latter, and the former part becomes prodigiously distended. In adults, and par- ticularly old persons, sometimes the prepuce contracts so much, without any evident cause, that its cavity becomes418 FIRST LINES OF THE filled, with urine during the act of making water, and great pain is produced. A phymosis is very often productive of bad conse- quences, when it is attended with chancres behind the glans. The latter part being situated between the sores and the orifice of the prepuce, frequently prevents the pus from finding its way outward, consequently there is an ac- cumulation of matter behind the corona glandis ; and this kind of abscess produces ulceration on the inside of the prepuce. When the matter bursts externally, the glans often protrudes through the opening, throwing the whole prepuce to the opposite side. Sometimes paraphymosis is the occasion of worse conse- quences, viz. mortification of the prepuce, including tin* part lorming the stricture. In numerous books, written by very modern surgeons, we find it stated, that the above complaints are almost al- ways owing to a venereal taint. From the preceding ac- count, however, it is sufficiently clear, that any cause, oc- casioning an inflammation and swelling of the prepuce, may give rise either to a phymosis, or paraphymosis; and that of whatever nature the cause may be, the effect itsell is always quite free from all venereal taint. TREATMENT OF PHYMOSIS. No operation should be practised on children for the na- tural phymosis, unless great inconvenience should imme- diately result from the malformation. It is very certain, ihat the constriction frequently goes off, as such subjects approach the adult stale. When a phymosis originates from the irritation of a chancre, a gonorrhoea, or excoriation underneath the pre- puce, the best treatment consists in making the patient re- main quietly in bed, very frequently injecting the satur* nine lotion underneath the prepuce, and applying linen, wet in this remedy, round the penis. 1 hese measures are419 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. vsot (o interrupt the exhibition of mercury, when chancres are known to exist. When the patient is not taking the latter medicine, he should not neglect to keep his bowels well open. When a phymosis is occasioned by the lodg- ment of acrid, sebaceous matter, beneath the prepuce, no- thing produces relief, more expeditiously, than uncovering the corona glandis, if possible, and washing the part with soap and water. Then the employment of the saturnine lotion, both as an injection, and a lotion, for keeping the inflamed part cool, will very soon accomplish a cure. From the extensive sloughing, which I have frequently seen follow operations, performed on the prepuce, during its inflamed and oedematous state, in cases of phymosis, I have no hesitation in asserting, that such practice is very injudicious, and hurtful. No inflamed phymosis can ever require the employmentof the knife, if we except the parti- cular instance, in which the matter accumulates under the prepuce, and cannot make its exit, but by an ulcerative process. The application of dressings to sores is never a sufficient reason ; for these may be washed with an injec- tion, and, when kept clean, they w ill heal, as soon as a due quantity of mercury has been exhibited. When matter is completely confined beneath the pre- puce, behind the glans, a puncture may be made into the collection of pus with a lancet, and, through this opening, proper washes may be injected. The ca-es, which require an operation, are such as are natural, and do not amend as the patient advances to the adult state; such as occur without acute inflammation, and, to all appearances, spontaneously; and others, w hich arise from the puckering of the prepuce, in conse- quence of former ulcerations. OPEIIATIOX FOR THE PHYMOSIS. lintil very lately, surgeons used to slit open the prepuce with a curved bistoury, a little on one side of the centre of f. e 2 »m . FIRST LINES- OF THE its upper part. This method, it'is obvious, would leave two very inconvenient flaps, or angles. The best modern operators, in this metropolis, prefer cir- . cumcisipn. The prepuce is taken hold of with a pair ol forceps, and, as much of the part being left out as seems necessary to be removed, the surgeon cuts a complete circle of the prepuce off by one stroke of the knife. The exter- nal layer of the skin of the prepuce is then usually pre- vented from becoming separated from the inner one by a fine suture, introduced through both their edges. TREATMENT OF THE PA R APHYMOSIS. This case may very often be at once relieved, by com- pressing as much of the blood as possible out of the glans penis, and then pushing the part back again through the stricture. In order to perform this operation adroitly, the surgeon should first make continued pressure on the glans, by placing it between the ends of the thumb, index, and middle fingers, of each hand. The whole surface of the part should thus be gradually-compressed, at the same time, for the space of four, or five minutes. Then, the two thumbs are to be employed, both in pushing backward the diminished glans, and, together with the fingers, in draw- ing forward the prepuce. I cannot say, that I have ever seen more than one case, in which this plan, when properly tried, did not succeed. When the attempt fails, leeches should be applied to the glans, and the flow of blood be afterwards promoted by immersing the penis in warm water. Frequently, the above (incthod will succeed, after such measures. However, if it should not, and no danger of gangrene should be present, the surgeon must be content with covering the penis with linen, kept constantly wet. When the cedematouS' swelling increases, instead of di- minishing, the only method of preventing mortification &i the glans and prepuce, is to make an incision just behindPRACTICE OF SURGERY- i? Hie former part, through the portion of the prepuce, form ing the constriction. A small scalpel is the best mstru ment, and care must be taken to cut to a sufficient depth. CIIAP. XLV AMPUTATION OF TIIE PENIS. IT is very generally set down, in surgical books, that cancer, and mortification of the penis, aieihe two causes, for which this operation is required. That the first is fre- quently a proper reason for amputating the penis, no man can question; but that mortification is so, every reflecting surgeon will deny. The mortified part will separate, and the living surface cicatrize afterwards, fully as well, as if the patient were to submit to a painful operation. When the case is a scirrhous, or cancerous disease, the prospect of a perfect cure will greatly depend upon the testicles, and glands hi the groin, being free from indura- tion. I have never seen this operation performed, except once, and, in that instance, the disease had extended to the testicles and inguinal glands, so that though the patient had got rid of (lie disease situated on the penis, the disor- der continued to increase in the groin and scrotum until life was exhausted. The operation is an extremely simple one. The surgeon commences by making an incision through the skin, all round that part of the penis, at which it is judged most advisable to amputate the part. The skin is then to be drawn a little towards the pubis, and exactly at its margin the operator is to make a complete division of the corpora cavernosa, and rest of the penis.4~~ FIRST LINES' OF THE The bleeding -will necessarily be rather profuse; but Jheieis never very great difficulty in suppressing it. T.hc supeificial branch of the internal pudendal artery, situated on the dorsum of the penis, and two arteries near the septum of the corpora cavernosa, may be tied. The he- morrhage, from the cells of the corpora cavernosa, may be stopped by applying scraped lint. In order to prevent a closure of the urethra, as well as to enable the patient to make water easily, and keep the urine from coming into contact with the wound, it is necessary, after the operation, to introduce a short silver cannula into this canal. The cannula must be made with little rin«s that it may be conveniently fastened in its situation. CHAP. XLVI. STRICTURES IN THE URETHRA. THE urethra naturally possesses a power of contrac- tion and relaxation. When any part of this canal is af- fected with spasm, it loses the power of relaxing itself, in a due degree, and a spasmodic stricture is the result. As Mr, Home observes, while a stricture is in this stage, it is only a wrong action of the membrane of the urethra; and if the parts could be examined in their relaxed state, there would be no appearance of disease. The second kind of stricture is both permanent and spasmodic ; so far permanent, that the affected part of the canal is always narrower than the rest; and so far spasms die., that this same part is liable to contract occasionally in a still greater degree. When the simple narrowness of the canal becomes a ridge, forming a continual projection, the case is a true423 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. permanent stricture. The disease generally occupies no great length of the passage, not extending further than it it vere produced by the urethra being surrounded with a piece of packthread. However, though this is the com- mon occurrence, the urethra, in some instances, is, un- doubtedly, contracted for more than an inch of its length. In certain cases, the canal widens very gradually in each direction from the most contracted point, so that the shape of this part of the tube may be considered as resembling two long cones, with their points in contact. I am perfectly convinced, that this is the case, which frequently baffles the operation of caustic, and which receives most benefit from the employment of common bougies. A stricture may also arise from a contraction ot only one side of the urethra. Whenever there is only one stricture, it is most commonly just behind the bulb of the urethra; the dis- tance from the external orifice being six and a half, or se- ven inches. Whenever there are other stiictures further forward, which is mostly the case, a stricture, which may be considered as the original one, will almost always be found to exist at the above part of the canal. > A true permanent stricture, unless very inveterate, or so advanced as to have rendered the urethra impervious, and to have occasioned fistulous openings in the perineum, is strictly capable of a further spasmodic, or muscular con - traction. This is clearly proved, by all strictures being less troublesome in warm, than in cold weather. The fit of an ague, violent exorcise, hard drinking, and retaining the urine too long, after an inclination to void it has been felt, are all circumstances capable of aggravating the in- conveniences of strictures, by adding a spasmodic kind of contraction to that, which is permanent, i SYMPTOMS OF STRICTURES. The most, early symptom is a diminution in the stream of urine, which, however, is usually disregarded, until the ex-424 FIRST LINES OF THE pulsion of this fluid is attendee! with some decree of diffi- . cutty. As the case advances, the evacuation is made more frequently, than is natural, requiring a considerable ef- fort, and being accompanied with pain, and a straining sen- sation, which continues, for some time, after the bladder is emptied. Pain is particularly experienced, about an inch and a half from theglans penis, as in cases of gonorrhoea, and stone in the bladder. When the stricture is consider- able, the urine flows out in a very small, spiral, or forked stream, A good deal of uneasiness is also frequently felt m the loins. A gleet is another very common attendant on the complaint. Patients, who have strictures, are often troubled with involuntary emissions of the semen during sleep. In some cases the obstruction prevents (lie due ejection of this fluid in coition, and, it is not till some time after the orgasm, that the seminal secretion oozes gradually out of the mouth of the urethra, instead of being ejected with force at the proper period. In certain case's, the bladder is unusually irritable, and secretes from its inner membrane a very large quantity of viscid muous, which is discharged with the urine. As strictures aremttended with several symptoms, which are common to gonorrhoeas, and cases of stone, it is of great importance that the surgeon should enquire, whether the urine ever issues in a full stream. If it should be found to do so, even though the stream may now be in a diminished state, and there may be difficulty in effecting the evacua- tion, it is quite clear that there cannot possibly be any permanent stricture ; for this would never allow the urine to come away in a copious current. Some patients, afflicted with strictures, are also very sub- ject to complete paroxysms of fever ; in other words, they often have a cold, hot, and sweating stage of febrile disor- der in regulkr succession. The indisposition differs from agflej by the sweating being much more profuse.425 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. In some persons strictures in the urethra occasion a swell- ing of the testicle. A stricture, when permanent and considerable, is very apt to cause, under particular circumstances, strangury; and retention of urine. If a patient go suddenly from a warm into a cald situation, if he drink too frceiy ot wine, eat hiffh-seasoned dishes, catch cold, commit any species ofjntemperance, or delay making water too long after feel- ing the inclination, he exposes himself to the danger of these latter grievances. TREATMENT OF STRICTURES. The first object is to ascertain the precise situation of the stricture nearest the orifice of the urethra. For this purpose a, common bougie, proportioned to the size of the aperture of this canal, is to be gently introduced. If the bougie easily enters the passage, the surgeon may lie well assured that the size of the instrument is not too large, and that no impediment to its further introduction can proceed from this circumstance-? for the mouth of the urethra is naturally its most narrow part. Small bougies, and such as are too much pointed, are very apt to be stopped bv the lacunae, or orifices of the mucous glands, and to lead inex- perienced surgeons into error. In introducing any instrument properly into the ure- thra some degree of skill is displayed. The surgeon should take hold of the penis, by placing the fore-finger and thumb of his left hand on each side of the prepuce, oppo- site the corona glandis ; thus he avoids making any pres- sure on the passage, into which he is about to pass an in- strument. This being oiled, is to be introduced a little way first; then the surgeon is to draw the penis forward, as it were, over the bougie with the index and thumb of his left hand, while, at the same time, he gently find steadi- ly persists in pushing the instrument further info the passage with his right hand. A bougie is to be held like aFIRST LINES OF THE 426 tvriting pen, and, as it enters the urethra, ought to be art- iully rotated first in one direction, and then in the other, in order that its extremity may more certainly escape be- ing entangled in any natural fold of the membrane lining the passage. Having ascertained, by the introduction of a bougie, the existence and situation ot the stricture nearest the mouth of the urethra, the next desideratum is to learn, whether the contraction is such as would be produced toy fying a piece of packthread round the canal; whether, on the other hand, it occupies a considerable extent of the length of the passage ; and lastly, w hat is the size of the bougie which can be introduced through it. It is on these latter circumstances that we ought, in my opinion, to de- termine, whether the common or caustic bougie should be preferred. Soon after Mr. Home had recommended an almost unlimited employment of armed bougies, I made many trials of his plan on patients in St. Bartholomew’s hospital. In a few of these eases I touched the strictures sixty, eighty, and even near a hundred times, without getting through them, although I followed the above gen- tleman’s directions in a very strict manner. Most com- monly, however, I found the caustic answer my expecta- tions. Now fiom reflecting on the manifest impotence of caustic to destroy a stricture, that occupies an inch or more of the canal, I have no hesitation in asserting, that when a stricture is accompanied with a contraction of some extent, both before and behind it, the common bougie is generally preferable to the caustic one. The fear of a re- turn of a stricture, when thus completely cured, has often seemed to me a suppositious and unfounded argument. Notwithstanding this sentiment, I shall recommend caust ic bougies in the majority of ordinary cases ; because in these the stricture is not more extensive, than if it were caused by a piece of packthread tied round the urethra, and there- fore it can be advantageously and expeditiously cured by the application of caustic.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 427 On account of the above reasons, and a conviction that strictures, occupying some extent of the passage, are far more common, than has been supposed, I think every sur- geon should endeavour to learn (before determining which sort of bougie he will use) whether the stricture is such a contraction as would originate from tying, a piece of packthread round the canal ; or whether it consists oi a more extensive diminution of the passage. Having ascertained that a common sized bougie will not pass beyond a particular point of the urethra, we ought to make an impression on the instrument with the nail, close- ly to the mouth of the urethra. Then the bougie should Iw* withdrawn, and the surgeon should take one of a smaller size, which he is to mark with his nail, exactly at the place corresponding to that of the impression on the first bougie. This smaller one is to be introduced so far as to bring its marked part exactly to the orifice of the urethra, at which period (lie surgeon knows that the extremity of the bougie has just arrived at the contraction, which would not allow the first common-sized bougie to pass. If the second bougie cannot be introduced further than t lie first, a still smaller one is to be tried ; but the surgeon should not have recourse to the smallest bougies at once, as the largest bougie that can be insimtated through the stricture ought to be the model of the soft white one, which should now be introduced for the purpose of shewing the shape and ex- tent of the stricture, by the impressions made upon it. If, after the soft bougie has remained a minute or two in the stricture, it should be marked with a distinct circular, or semicircular narrow furrow on being withdrawn, we have reason to believe that the stricture does not occupy much of the extent of the urethra. However, whether there is any gradual conical diminution of the passage, in front of the most contracted part of the stricture, may be known by considering, whether the situation of thefurrow, on the soft bougie, is exactly ^t the same distance from theFIRST LINES OF THE * Plate VIII, fig. 2 and 3. 478 mnrT< made on it by the surgeon’s nail, at the month of Hie urethra,as (hat. other dent made by the1 surgeon’s nail on the common-sized bougie is from the end of this latter instru- ment. If the distance between the impression of the stric- ture and the dent of the nail upon the soft bougie is greater than the space between the end of the common sized one, and the mark of the nail, we may conclude that there is a diminution in the diameter of the urethra, in front of the most contracted part of the stricture, which causes the distinct impression. For this kind of case I should cer- tainly not recommend the caustic, "We must acknowledge that it is somewhat difficult to ascertain, by means of bougies, whether the urethra is di- minished in diameter, immediately behind the most con- tracted part of the stricture. For this reason, and because it seems obvious, that the method of treatment ought to be different in cases of strictures, confined to a point of the urethra, and in others occupying some extent of the pas? sage, I think every invention for facilitating the discrimi- nation of the two kinds of cases, ought to meet the encou- ragement of liberal surgeons. Actuated by this sentiment, I feel much pleasure in noticing Mr. Charles Bell’s pro- posal to use a particular sort of probe for ascertaining the extent of strictures. u 1 procured (says this gentleman) a series of silver and gold probes,* with circular knobs ; the knobs varying from the full size of the urethra to what will just pass the narrowest stricture. By successively intro- ducing smaller balls, I ascertain the degree of stricture by the ball which passes easily, and I am secure of being in the passage, by passing, the probe onward, when it has got beyond the stricture. Then by the slight feeling of resist- ance in passing the ball, and in withdrawing it again through the obstruction, I ascertain the extent of the con- traction. If the ball of this probe be liable, like the pointPRACTICE'OF SURGERY. 429 Plate VIII, fig. 3. i uf the bougie, to enter one of the lacurue, or on passing it to rub upon its edge, yet by feeling whether the same rouga- ness or difficulty attends the withdrawing of the bulb the probe, or when it passed downward, we may be assur- ed f whether there be a stricture of the canal, or whether the obstruction be not caused merely by the lacuna. The author proceeds to observe, that, as the lacuna opens towards the urethra, its edge cannot catch the probe, while this instrument is being withdrawn, at which period a uniform smoothness must be felt, unless there be disease. When there is an irregular hardening of th« urethra, for a considerable extent, the probe moves along it with difficulty ; but no sooner has it passed the ob- struction, than it moves on with freedom.* Certainly* these balls seem well calculated for ascertain- ing the degree and extent of strictures, and, if found in practice to be productive of as much utility, as they seem to promise on paper, I have no doubt, that the cases pro- per for the armed bougie may hereafter be generally dis- criminated from others, which would receive most benefit from the common one. It is obvious, that a caustic bougie is not at all proper for removing an obstruction of any extent. It could only act on the anterior part of the contraction, without pre- senting any prospect of being sufficiently efficacious to burn its way, by repeated applications, through the whole extent of the stricture. Even could wc imagine, that it had this power, our judgment and common sense would revolt at the doctrine of this being the proper plan to be pursued. The common bougie, on the other hand, is in- troduced through the whole extent of the stricture, and acting like a wedge on every part of it, produces a general dilatation of the obstruction. When the stricture is co- nical the common bougie must also merit a preference.FIRST LINES OP THE 430 However, in cases When? no bougie can be introduced be- yond the stricture, I am of opinion, that Mr. Home’s plan of treatment is the best; the attempt to restore the pervious state ot the urethra, in these instances, by the formation of .successive eschars, must be attended with less irritation and pain, than any effort to get through the obstruction, by pressing the common bougie so forcibly against th« stricture, as to excite ulceration. method of using the common bougif. Hus instrument acts by producing a mechanical dila- tation of the stricture. However, as it operates on living matter, neither makes the dilated part adapt itselfto its new position, or recede by ulceration. Jf the case is one, that will allow even the smallest bougie to be introduced through the stricture, the cure may be considered as in our power. In many cases, in which the stricture is con- siderable, a great deal of trouble is given by occasional spasms, which either prevent the introduction of the bou- gie altogether, or only allow a very small one to pass. In such cases, Mr. Hunter was sometimes able to make (he bougie pass, by rubbing the perineum with one hand, while he pushed forward (lie bougie with the other. He was also in the habit ot frequently succeeding, by letting the bougie remain close to the stricture a little while, and then pushing it forward. The spasm has sometimes been removed by dipping the penis in cold water. ' it is sometimes difficult to ascertain, whether a small bougie has passed through a stricture, or lias only bent, in this case, a common-sized bougie should be previous!r introduced to learn the situation of the stricture, and after- wards, when the end ot the small bougie is known to have reached the obstruction, the surgeon should push the in- strument forward very gently, and for a short time. If (lie bougie enter the penis further, he may know whether it Ims entered the stricture, by removing the pressure from.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 431 the bougie; for if this recoil, it has not passed, but only bent. However, a very small bougie might be bent, and yet not recoil. After the bougie has passed a little way through the stricture, and remained there a short lime, we should with- draw, and examine its extremity. If this be flattened, grooved, or should have its waxen coat pushed up for some extent, or if there should be a circular impression on the bougie, or only a dent on one side, made by the spasmodic ac ion of the stricture, we may be sure that it has passed, as far as those appearances and impressions extend. Now it becomes necessary to introduce another exactly of the same size, and let it remain as long as the patient experiences no particular inconvenience. When the end of the first bougie is blunted, we may be sure that it has not passed the stricture at all. The best time for wearing bougies, is when the patient is in bed in the morning, or when he is not obliged to move about. The bougie should be gradually increased in size, as the stricture dilates, till the largest, one can easily pass, and its use should be continued for three or four weeks af- terwards, in order to habituate the parts to their new state. One advantage, which common bougies have over caustic ones, consists in their being calculated, when in- troduced into the bladder, to operate on several strictures at once. METHOD OF USING CAUSTIC BOUGIES. The idea of applying caustic to strictures, through a cannula, was known to Wiseman. It appears, that Mr. Hunter, without having been aware, that the method had been noticed by the above writer, adopted the same plan in his own practice. The instruments, which he employed for applying the caustic, consisted of a silver cannula, and a stilet. One end of the stilet liad a small bulb.FIRST LINES OF THE 432 \\>.ich filled up the end of the cannula, and made it pass more easily down to the stricture. The other end was a portcrayon, (hat contained the piece of camstic to be intro- duced through the cannula, and applied to the stricture. J he portcrayon, being guarded within the cannula, the whole was then withdrawn. As Mr. Home remarks, this method was found in prac- tice to be liable to many objections. The silver cannula could not be adapted to the flexible canal of the urethra, lienee, when the caustic Avas applied, and any degree of pressure employed, the effect of the caustic was necessarily produced upon the angle, between the stricture, and side ot the urethra, and not upon the middle of the stricture, the part intended to be destroyed. Mr. Hunter not only saw the inconveniences of the cannula, but devised a more simple and commodious method of applying caustic accu- rately to the centre of the stricture. Mr. Home explains the improved mode as follows: take a bougie, of a size that can readily be passed down to the stricture, and insert a small piece of. lunar caustic into the end of it, exposing the surface of the caustic, but sur- rounding it every where laterally by the substance of the bougie. This should be done some little time before it is used ; for the materials of which the bougie is composed, become warm and soft by being handled in inserting the caustic ; and therefore the hold which the bougie has of the caustic is rendered more secure by the instrument being allowed to cool and become hardened. This bougie is to be oiled ; but before passing it a com- mon bougie ot the same size is to be introduced down the stricture, in order to clear the canal, and to measure exactly the distance of the stricture from the external orifice. This distance .being marked upon the armed bougip, the latter is to be passed down to the stricture, as soon as the cbmmon one is withdrawn. In its passage the caustic can scarcely come into contact w'ith any part of the. lining ofPRACTICE OF SURGERY, 433 the urethra, as the point of the bougie, of which the caustic forms the central part, always moves in the middle line of the canal ; and indeed the quickness, with which it is con- veyed to the stricture, would also prevent any injury of the membrane* When the armed bougie is in contact with the stricture, it is to be steadily retained there, with a moderate degree Of pressure at first, which is to be afterwards diminished, as it would bend the bougie, when this becomes softened by the warmth of the urethra. The time it is to remain depends a good deal On the sensations of the patient, and the length of time the parts have been diseased ; but, on the first trial, it should be less than a minute, as it then commonly gives greater pain than at any subsequent application. Every other day appears, in general, to be as often as it is prudent to apply the caustic. Mr. Home, however, has applied it every day in obstinate cases, and I have often done the same myself. The bougie, introduced before the armed one, should be made of soft materials, that it may mould itself to the form of the passage, and communicate information* relative to the size, and position of the stricture. Mr. Whately Considers strictures of the urethra not merely as Contracted fibres, but as really diseased portion^ of the membrane lining that canal, with a continued dis- position to increased contraction. Hence, he approves of a remedy, Calculated both to remove the diseased affection, and to dilate the contracted part, without putting the pa- tient to the inconvenience of wearing a bougie. Such a remedy he thinks caustic, when it is judiciously used. But his great object is to recommend the employment of the kali purum in a particular manner, as being, according to his account, more efficacious, and less painful and ha- zardous, than bougies, armed with lunar caustic. Before the kali purum ought to be used, the urethra should be rendered sufficiently capacious to admit a bougie,FIRST LINES OF THE 434 above the .smallest size, into tbe bladder, and the strictures, it vc»y iuitablc, should have this irritability previously lessened by the use of common bougies. I he bougie is armed w ith the kali purum as follows : put a small quantity ot (his caustic upon a piece of strong paper, and break it with a hammer into small pieces, about the size of large and small pin’s heads. Tims broken, it should be kept for use in a phial, closed with a ground stopper. Tlie bougie should have a proper degree of cur- vature given to it, by drawing it several times between the finger and thumb of the left hand, and it should be just large enough to enter the stricture with some degree of tightness. Then let it be passed gently into the urethra, and when its point stops at the stricture, which it almost always does, before it will enter it, make a notch with the finger nail, on the upper portion of the bougie, exactly half an inch from the extremity of the penis. When tlie bougie is withdrawn, a small hole, about tlie sixteenth part of an inch deep, should be made at the extremity of its rounded end. Some of the broken caustic should then be put upon a piece of paper, arid a bit smaller, than the smallest pin’s head is to be selected for the first application. Let this be inserted into the hole of the bougie with a pocket knife, and pushed into it with the blunt end of a pin, so as to make the caustic situated rather below the margin of the hole. To prevent the kali from coming out, the hole should then be contracted a little with the finger, and the remaining vacancy in it filled with hog’s lard. The bougie being piled, is to be passed, with the curvature upward, to the anterior part of the stricture, the situation of which has been ascertained beforehand, and the bougie marked as already explained. The instrument should rest there for a few seconds, that tlie caustic may begin to dissolve. It should then be pushed very gently forward, about one eighth of an inch, when there should be another stop fora second, or two. The bougie shouldPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 435 next be carried forward in the same gentle manner, till it has got through the stricture. After this it should be im- mediately withdrawn by a very gentle motion to the part, at which it was first made to rest awhile. Then it should be passed very slowly through the stricture a second time , but without letting the bougie stop in its passage. I f pain or faintness arise, the operation is now to end, and the bou- gie be immediately withdrawn : but, if no such effects should be produced, the instrument may be passed, and Withdrawn, «nce or twice more, before concluding the ope- ration, which will occupy about two minutes. The application is to be repeated once every seven days, and, if the stricture be found dilated, the bougie must be proportionally increased in size every time. The piece ot caustic, in no cases whatever, ought to be larger than a common pin’s head. By the above procedure, Mr. Whately asserts, that the kali is equally diffused over every part of the slrictured surface, and only abrades the membrane ot the stricture, without producing a slough. Whoever wishes further information, concerning this method of treatment, must consult Mr. Whately’s publi- cation. Iu eases, in which the stricture occupies some extent, I should prefer common bougies ; and, when the contraction is such as would arise from tying a piece of packthread round the urethra, 1 should always prefer the bougies employed in Mr. Home’s method. OF A NEW PASSAGE. Mr. Hunter very justly informs us, that the greatest evil, arising from the improper use of the bougie, and the most dangerous, is the formation of a new passage. This is generally occasioned by an attempt to excite ulceration by the application of the end of the bougie to the stricture, when this instrument cannot be passed through it. Every lime a bougie is now introduced, it cannot be prevented f f l2FIRST LINES OF THE 436 from going into the new passage, and thus it is completely hindered from acting on the stricture. In this circumstance, Mr. Hunter recommends the fol- lowing operation. Pass astaff, or any such instrument into the urethra, as far as it will go, which will probably be to the bottom of the new passage, and this, we may be certain, is beyond the stricture. Feel for the end of the instrument externally, and cut upon it, making the wound about an inch long, if the disease be before the scrotum ; and an inch and a half, or more, if in the perineum. If the new passage be between the urethra and body of the penis, you will most probably get into the sound urethra, before you come to the instrument, or new passage. If so, introduce a probe into the urethra, through the wound, and pass it towards the glans penis, or, in other words, towards the stricture. When it meets with an obstruction, this must be the stricture, which is now to be got through, and after- wards dilated. To complete the operation, withdraw the probe, and, instead of it, introduce a hollow cannula for- wards to the stricture. Then introduce another cannula from the glans downwards, till the two tubes are opposite each other, having the stricture between them. An assistant is now to take hold of the urethra on the outside, with his linger and thumb, just where the two cannuke meet, in order to keep them in their places. Through the upper cannula next introduce a piercing instrument, which is to perforate the stricture, and enter the lower cannula. The piercing instrument is now to be w ithdrawn, and a bougie introduced through the first cannula and stricture, into the second cannula. The tubes are to be withdrawn, and the end of the bougie, in the wound, directed into the bladder, through the further portion of the urethra. It may also be necessary to lay the whole of the false passage open in order to make it heal; for otherwise, it might still obstruct the future passage of bougies into the proper canal. If the new passage be between the skin and urethra, the437 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. surgeon must extend his incision more deeply, for the pur- pose of finding out the natural passage. Then he is to proceed as above explained. The longer the first bougie is allowed to remain in the canal, the more readily will the second pass. The bougies must be gradually increased in size, and used till the wound is healed. The only improvement, which seems proper to be made in this plan, is to employ hollow bougies, or flexible gum catheters, which might be worn longer than common bougies, as the patient could void his urine through them. CHAP. XLVII. * FISTULA IN PERINEO, WHEN the urethra is very much obstructed, nature often endeavours to procure relief by ulceration o# the in- side of that part of the urethra, which is within the stric- ture. Hence, the urine insinuates itself into the loose cel- lular membrane of the scrotum and pemsf The extrava- sation of this fluid becomes the cause of suppuration, when- ever it is diffused, and even of mortification, first of all the cellular substance, and then of several portions of the skin. If the patient surv ive, all these sloughs are detached, leav- ing a free communication between the urethra and exter- nal surface. Every opening, thus produced, is termed a jistula in perineo, Sometimes the urine finds its way into the corpus spon- giosum urethra, becomes diffused through the whole of this texture, even injected into the glans penis, and occa- sions mortification of the parts, in which it is lodged,438 FIRST LINES OF TIIR Till, ATM ENT, A complete cure cannot be accomplished without re, moving the stricture. But this indication generally can- not be fulfilled in time to prevent all the mischief, arising from the extravasation of urine. An attempt should be made to pass the. bougie ; for sometimes the stricture is, more or less, removed by the ulceration. When this is the case, Mr. Hunter very properly advises the almost constant use of bougies, in order to procure a passage on-? ward into the bladder. While measures are taken for curing the stricture, every thing, calculated to diminish inflammation, is to be put into practice. Bleeding, and exposing the parts to the steam of hot water are particularly proper. Opium, given by the mouth, and in clysters, togethei with.the employ- ment of the warm bath, is the best means of lessening any spasmodic affection. However, all these measures arc too often insufficient, and therefore immediate relief, as Mr. Hunter observes, must be sough?, by endeavouring to um load the bladder, and to prevent the further effusion of urine into the cellular substance. This object is effected by making an opening info the urethra, some where be- yond the sfricture, but the nearer to it the better. Introduce a director, or staff, into the urethra, as far as. the stricture. Cut down on the extremity of the instru- ment, and extend the incision a little further towards the jinus, so as to open the urethra beyond the stricture. When the stricture is opposite the scrotum, Mr. Hunter recommended making an opening into the urethra in the perineum j but here we cannot have the end of the staff'to guide us, ancl we must trust to our anatomical kuowledgc, The rest of (lie .operation resembles that for the cure of a false passage. A flexible gum catheter slipuld then be introduced, and the wound healed. Great attention should still hie paUl to the inflamma- tion, which follows the diffusion of urine. Scarifications l439 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. ought to be made, in order to give vent to the urine and pus. When there are sloughs, the surgeon would of course prefer puncturing dead, rather than living matter. But this consideration must not lead him to omit making the scarifications in the most depending situation. In old cases of fistula in perineo, in which the dangers, arising from the diffusion of urine, are past, the surgeon is to endeavour to make the natural passage as free as possi- ble by the use of the common, or caustic bougie ; for fre- quently the fistulous openings in the perineum heal up spontaneously, as soon as the urine finds a free passage for- ward through the urethra. When thefistulcK in perineo do not heal, on the com- plete removal of the stricture, they are to be laid open, in the same manner, as other sinuses which have no disposi- tion to heal. In doing this as little as possible of the sound part of the urethra must be opened. Hence, the surgeon must direct himself to the inner orifice of the fistulce, by means of a staff introduced (if possible) into the bladder, and a probe passed into one of the fistulous passages. Here it is essential to remark, 'that however numerous the external openings may be, fistula- in perinea never have more than one internal openiug, by which they communi- cate with the urethra. The probe should be first bent, that it may more readily follow the turns of the fistula. When it can be made to meet the staff, so much the better for then the operator can cot just what is necessary. When the fistula is so straight as to allow a director to ' be introduced, this instrument is the best. If, as Mr. Hunter observes, neither the probe, nor the director can be made to pass as far as the stall1, we must open as far as the first instrument goes, and then search for the continuation of the passage, for the purpose of opening it. Certainly, there may be cases of fistula*, in perineo, at- tended with most unyielding/Strictures ; where it might be proper to cut through these obstructions, in the way re-440 first lines of the commended for the cure of a false passage. But we ought undoubtedly always to try the efficacy of bougies, before having recourse to such an operation. Having divided the Jistulce, as far as their termination in the urethra, a flexible gum catheter should be introduced, and .orn, at first almost constantly. When the sores become stationary, however, it is best to withdraw the ca- theter, and, only introduce it occasionally ; for its conti- nual presence sometimes prevents cicatrization. Tiie dressings are, at first, to be introduced down to the bottom of the wounds, for the purpose of preventing the union of the parts which have been just divided, and (to use Mr. Hunter’s words) in order to make the granulations shoot from the bottom, so as to consolidate the whole by one bond of union. | CHAP. XLYIII. RETENTION OF URINE. WHEN the evacuation of urine from the bladder is prevented by any particular cause, this viscus becomes dis;ended in a very remarkable degree. The swelling of the bladder, in this case, may be distinctly felt above the os pubis, and in the rectum. When one hand is placed just above the pubis, and a finger is introduced into the rectum, a fluctuation may easily be perceived, At first the patient experiences an incessant, and violent inclination to make wafer ; the whole abdomen gradually becomes tense and painful} cold perspirations, anxiety, oppressed respiration, hiccough, deliquium animi, &c. follow. When the disorder is not speedily relieved, several441 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. events are liable to occur. 1. When the bladder has been distended to a certain pitch, and the cause of the retention of urine is not such, as to close the urethra, the contents of the bladder at length begin to be discharged by drops. This viscus, however, is not emptied by the occurrence..j the same degree of distention and fulness continue, though they do not augment. It is this sort'of retention ot urine, that may last several weeks, without prodiicing further dangerous consequences. 3. "When the disorder is owing to a total closure of the canal, through which the urine is naturally evacuated, the distention and fulness of the blad* der continually increase, until at length inflammation, sloughing, and even death take place. Sometimes, how- ever, and, probably, when the slough is, as it were, only a speck, the bladder bursts at the affected point, the urine becomes diffused in the surrounding parts, and the patient becomes suddenly freed from the preternatural distention of the bladder. The result depends on the situation of the slough of this viscus. For the most part, the breach is formed in the vicinity of the neck of the bladder, so that the urine is extravasated in the cellular membrane of the perineum and scrotum, andfistula in perineo take place.* Sometimes the slough opens a passage for the urine into the rectum, and this fluid is suddenly discharged with the stools. The bladder occasionally bursts at its superior and anterior part, and the urine becomes diffused in the cellular substance of the abdominal muscles. When the fundus of this viscus bursts, its contents are effused into the cavity of the abdomen, and the consequence is fatal. Sometimes, the urine is discharged at the navel. In this instance, a preternatural pouch forms, which occasions a fluctuating tumour at the umbilicus, and, at last, the swel- ling inflames and bursts. This occurrence is commonly * In th« urethra, ulceration occurs, as we have described in the Chapter on fistulyt in perineo.first lines of the 442 seen in children.* The bladder is seldom found ruptured, unless a slough has previously occurred. " Sometimes, in consequence of the distended state of the bladder, no more uiiue can be transmitted into this recep- tacle. The lower terminations of the ureters arc mechani- cally shut, so that these tubes> and the pelvis of each kid- ney, become very enormously dilated with urine. Retention of urine is referrible to four principal causes ; 1. weakness, or paralysis of the bladder ; 2. inflammation of this viscuS, or of the adjacent parts.; 3. a spasmodic closure of the neck of the bladder, or urethra ; 4. and lastly, some obstruction in the passage. I v • RETENTION OF URINE FROM PARALYSES OF THE BLADJ)E II. In this case the passage for the urine is open ; but the bladder has not the power of contraction. The nature of the disorder is distinguished by the foregoing cause, and by the facility with which the catheter may be introduced. In persons of advanced age, the bladder becomes less sensible to the stimulus of the urine, and loses the power of contracting so completely as to expel the whole of its contents. This is the first degree of the retention of urine, common to'old subjects, and originating in a very gradual manner. The urine flows in a full, but a Aveak stream, and towards the end of every evacuation, the Avater only comes away in drops. The quantity of urine, expelled at a’time, becomes by degrees smaller and smaller, until a perfect retention occurs. This species of the disorder is often imputable to a perni- cious habit of not taking sufficient time completely to dis- charge the urine. Sometimes it. is owing to an injury done to the loins, and it. is then usually attended with a paralytic affection of the lower extremities. Most frequently, it is * One buck case 1 have seen myself.PRACTICE op surgery. 443 produced by an unusual distention of the above viseus,^ whereby this is deprived of the power of contracting itselt again. The distention occurs, either in consequence of re- taining the urine too long, after an inclination to void it is first felt; or in consequence of another species of reten- , tion, which has only attained a certain degree. The paralytic retention of urine is not so dangerous as the other kinds, especially those, which arc produced by a closure of the urinary passage. Inflammation and slough- « ing of the bladder seldom result from it. As the urethra is pervious, no sooner is the bladder distended in a certain degree, than the pressure of the abdominal muscles causes a partial discharge of its contents. I he nature of tluscase is very liable to be misunderstood, on account ot as much water being evacuated in the course oi the day, as usual, and in consequence ot the patient himself being able, by an effort of the abdominal muscles, and pressing the lower part of the belly, to make the mine flow out in a stream. There ar« two indications in the treatment of thhfkind of retention of urine; the first is to draw off the fluid dis- tending the bladder; the second is to restore the natural contractile power of this viscus, in accomplishing which latter object, it is necessary to pay attention to the cause of the malady. The catheter is the most certain means of draw ing ofT the water, and its introduction should never be impru- dently delayed, w hen the com plaint has been of any dura- tion ; for the distention of the bladder, and the loss of its contractile power, ure continually increasing, and of course a radical cure is rendered more and more difficult. Only in very recent cases, is it proper to be content writh try- ing at first swell remedies, as seem calculated to re-establish the contractile power of the bladder. W ith this latter view, fifteen or twenty drops of the tinct. emit liar, may be taken once a Jay ; a blister may be applied to the sacrum, or perineum^ and cold lotions to the hypogastric region.444 FIRST LINES OF THE It success should not speedily attend this treatment, the bladder is to be emptied by means of the catheter. When however, the contractile power of the viscus is totally lost! the whole of the urine does not flow out, even through this instrument, particularly if the patient should be lyin'- upon his back. In this case, the evacuation must be ast sisted by pressing the lower part of the abdomen, and making the patient stand up. I he second indication is to restore the contractile power of the bladder; for, as long as this faculty remains unre- covered, the distention and fulness of the viscus recur, and exasperate the malady. Hence, any large quantity of urine must be prevented from accumulating, by the continued employment of the catheter. This must be introduced se- veral times in the course of twenty-four hours. When the patient, on account of his remoteness, cannot be visited repeatedly, it is better to leave the catheter constantly in the urethra. Insimhp^ses, a flexible catheter, made of elastic gum, simSOTways be employed, in preference to a silver one. •-£ ' It is found ^fcst advantageous not to let the urine conti- nually dribble away, through the catheter, when this is left in the passage. The writings of Desault inform us, that the bladder is longer in recovering its tone, when con- stantly relaxed, than when it is allowed to be now flaccid, and now moderately filled with urine. Hence, it is better to stop the opening of the catheter, and only allow the urine to be evacuated every three hours. The instrument is to be witbdraw’n, and cleaned, about once every six days. As these cases are often tediously long, it is very useful to teach the patient himself to introduce the catheter. Together with the continued use of this instrument, the above means, calculated to restore the contractile power of the bladder, ought to be employed. The occasional causes are, also, to be considered. When the loins are injured, topical bleeding, the saturnine lotion,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 445 ihe volatile liniment, blisters, and electricity, are of ser- vice. Retention of urine is, in fact, very often merely a symptom of another disease, and then the removal of the latter generally cures the other alfection. When the bladder can completely empty itself, the ca- theter is no longer necessary. But the surgeon must assure himself by an introduction of the instrument, that this is really the case; for if any of the urine should be allowed to remain undischarged after each evacuation, the quan- tity would gradually increase, and a complete retention take place again. CATHETER. There are flexible, inflexible, and elastic catheters. The common inflexible catheter is a silver tube of such a dia- meter, as will allow it to be introduced with facility into the urethra, and of various figure and length, according as it is intended for the male, or female subject. A common male catheter is ten or eleven inches long. In general, a large instrument of this kind, like a large bougie, will enter the bladder with more ease, than a smaller one, because less likely to be entangled in the lacunae of the urethra. One third of the catheter, towards its point, should be mode- rately curved; the other two thirds, towards its handle, should be straight. The instrument, when gently curved, is found to be more easily introduced, than when it is very much bent. The female catheter is straight, excepting a slight curvature towards its point, and it is about six inches in length. The ordinary flexible catheter is nothing more than a hollow bougie; and the elastic one contains in its compo- sition clastic gum. The two last descriptions of catheters have the advantage of being less irritating to the urethra, and less apt to become covered with calculous incrusta- tions, than silver tubes. They can also be introduced, inFIRST; LINES OF TI1E 446 cases of obstructions in the urethra, when an inflexible sil- ver catheter could not be passed. Sometimes, the instrument is difficult of introduction, owing to a spasmodic affection of the urethra, and neck of the bladder. In this case, a dose of opium should be admin- istered, before a second attempt is made. When inflamma- tion is present, the introduction may often be facilitated by a previous bleeding. The operation of introducing the catheter may be per- formed, when the patient is either standing up, sitting, or lying doAvn. In performing if, one of the most important maxims is never to force forward the instrument, Avlien it is stopped by any obstacle. It there are no strictures, the stoppage of the catheter is always ow ing to one of the folIoAving cir- cumstances. Its beak may be pushed against the os pubis. This chiefly occurs, Avhen the handle of the instrument is prematurely depressed. Here the employ- ment of force can obviously do no good, and may be pro- ductive of serious mischief. The beak of the catheter may take a Avrong direction, and push against the side of the urethra, especially at its membranous part, Avhich it may dilate info a kind of pouch. In this circumstance, if force ■\vere exerted, it Avould certainly lacerate the urethra, and occasion a false passage. The end of the catheter may be entangled in a fold of the lining of the urethra, and here force would be equally Avrong. Lastly, the point of the instrument may be stopped by the prostate gland, in Which event force can be of no service, and may be pro- ductive of great harm. Hence, it is always proper, to Avithdraw the instrument a little, and to push it gently on- ward in a different position. As Richter states, the operation may be divided into three stages : in the first, the catheter passes, in the male subject, that portion of the urethra, which is surrounded by the corpus spongiosum ; in the second, it passes thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 447 membranous part of the canal, situated between the bulb, and the prostate gland ; in the third, it enters this gland, and the neck of the bladder. In the first stage, little trou- ble is usually experienced; for the canal is here so sup- ported by the surrounding corpus spongiosum, that it can- not easily be pushed into the form of a pouch, in which the end of the instrument can be entangled. The operator need only observe the following circumstance. The penis should be held, by placing the corona gland is between the thumb and the index finger of the left hand : in this way the en- trance of the urethra will not be at all compressed. The penis is then to be drawn upward, with moderate forces The catheter, being well oiled, is now to be introduced, with its concavity towards the abdomen, into the urethra, directly downward, until its point reaches the bulb. As soon as this occurs, and the beak of the instrument has passed under the arch of the pubis, the surgeon must very slowly bring the handle of the catheter forwards, between the patient’s thighs, and, while this is being accomplish- ed, the beak of thy instrument becomes elevated, and glides into the bladder. In this stage of the operation, the penis must be allowed to sink down, and not be kept tense, as this would only drag the membranous part of the urclhra against the os pubis, and render the passage of the instru- ment more dilficult. The operation, however, is not al- ways successfully accomplished in this manner. The beak of the catheter may be slopped by the os pubis ; it may take a wrong direction, so as to push the membranous part of the urethra to one side or the other: or it may be stopped by a fold of the lining of the passage. The first kind oi impediment is best avoided by not depressing the handle ot the catheter too soon : that is, before the poiut has passed beyond the arch of the pubis. W hen ihe mem- branous part ot the urethra is pushed to one side, or the other, the instrument ought to be withdrawn a little, and then pushed gently on in a diflerent direction. When this449 First lines of the expedient is unavailing, the index finger of the left hand may be introduced into the rectum, for the purpose of sup* porting the membranous part of the urethra* and guiding the extremity of the Catheter. When the prostate gland is enlarged* the diameter of the urethra does not undergo any diminution; but it turns upward very suddenly, just before its approach to the bladder. In such cases* the end of the catheter should be more bent upward, than the rest of its curvature. Mr. Hey has found, that* in withdrawing the stilet of an elastic gum catheter, the instrument becomes more curved; and he has availed himself of this information, by withdrawing the stilet (which is to be constructed of brass wire), as he is introducing the catheter beyond the arch of the pubis, by which artifice, the point of the instrument is elevated in the due direction. When such experiments fail, the surgeon should try ca- theters of various sizes, and curvatures. In the third stage of the operation, the beak of the instru- ment has to pass the prostate gland, "and neck of the blad- der. The chief impediments to its passage in this situa- tion arise from a spasmodic contraction of the neck of the bladder, and from the instrument being pushed against the prostate gland. The first obstacle may generally be ob- viated by waiting a few moments, and gently rubbing the perineum, before pushing onward the catheter. The im- pediment, caused by the prostate, is best eluded, by using an instrument, the point of which is more curved than its other part. Sometimes the surgeon himself presses the prostate towards the os pubis, by means of the finger in the rectum, and thus' prevents the passage of the catheter, by increasing the sudden curvature at this part of the ure- thra. Hence, as Richter observes, it is a very important maxim, never to introduce the finger so far into the rec- tum, as to press on the prostate gland itself. Many eminent surgeons prefer introducing the catheter,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 449 as far as the perineum, with its convexity towards the ab- domen ; then keeping the point stationary, they make the handle describe a semicircular movement upward, so as to bring the concavity of the instrument towards the pubis, as it is situated in the above method. Flexible and elastic catheters are introduced, either with, or without a stilet. These have the same curvature as the silver catheter. When there is difficulty in introducing an elastic catheter with a stilet, the latter is to be with- drawn, about an inch, in order to allow the end of the in- strument to become more curved. INFLAMMATORY AND SPASMODIC RETENTION OF URINE. Inflammation, occasioning this complaint, is frequently situated in the neck of the bladder, urethra, or adjacent parts. The difficulty of voiding the urine is rather to be attributed to the spasmodic affection of the urinary pas- » sage, than to the swelling produced by the inflammation. The complaint must obviously originate in this way, when the inflammation is not situated in the urethra, and neck of the bladder, but in some neighbouring part, lienee, the antiphlogistic treatment, and antispasmodic remedies, arc both indicated. It is commonly believed, that a mere in- flammation of the neck of the bladder may occasion relen- tionofurinc; but, as Richter remarks, the complaint is, most probably, generally owing to inflammation in the vi- cinity, for inflamed muscles are not prone to contract. In examining the bodies of those subjects, who die of enteri- v tis, we find the intestines preternaturally distended, not contracted. The inflammation, causing retention of urine, may arise from various circumstances. Violent fits of the stone; very bad piles; the use of stimulating diuretic medicines, especially the tinct. cantli. ; the absorption of canfharides from blisters; bruises of the perineum ; fistulas in ano, &c. G GFIRST LINES OF TIIE 450 may be productive of such irritation in the urinary pas- sages, as shall occasion (hem (o become spasmodically af- fccled. But the most frequent exciting cause of the spas- modic, or inflammatory retention of urine, is the irritation produced by strictures, and virulent gonorrhoeas. From this account, it is manifest, that besides taking care to em- ploy antiphlogistic and antispasmodic remedies, it is also necessary to pay attention to each particular cause of the irritation. The most potent means for relieving the retention of ui ine, non under consideration, are, copious venesections ; the application of leeches to the perineum, or vicinity of the os pubis; the exhibition of opium by the mouth, and in clysters; the warm bath ; and fomentations to the hy- pogastric region, and perineum. Some also recommend rubbing the latter part with an embrocation, composed of hartshorn, camphor, and tinct. opii. When these measures have been fairly tried, without suc- cess, the catheter is to be used without delay. The conti- nued lodgment of the urine, and the distention, arising from its quantity, may soon cause the paralytic affection of the bladder, already noticed, and even occasion, in the course of three or four days, sloughing, and a fatal extravasation of the urine. When no kind of ca- theter can be introduced, not even a small one made of clas- tic gum, and the other remedies are unavailing, it becomes necessary to puncture the bladder, in the way which we shall next describe.451 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. CIIAP. XLIX. t • < PUNCTURING THE BLADDER. THIS operation ought not to be considered a very dan- gerous one. It is probable, that when death follows, it is generally owing to the puncture not having been made suf- ficiently soon. We can hardly suppose, that a small wound made in such parts, as are divided in the opera- tion, can often occasion the fatal termination of these cases. Hence, I think there can exist no rational doubt, that when such means, as seem best calculated for promoting the dis- charge of urine, have failed, after having had a fair trial, the operation of puncturing the bladder becomes immedi- ately as much indicated, as the division of the stricture in cases of strangulated herniae, when other means have not been productive of the object in view. Mr. Charles Bell states, that the fifth, sixth, and seventh days, from the commencement of the total obstruction, aie those on which the urine may escape from the bladder into the abdomen ; and, consequently, he recommends the ope- ration to be performed on the fourth day. I am decidedly of opinion, that when other means have been fakly tried, the puncture should not belong deferred, and the allowance of forty-eight hours for making trial of remedies, previously to the operation, seems to me amply sufficient. There are three situations, in which surgeons may make an opening into the bladder, viz. from the perineum, above the os pubis, and through the rectum. Of the first opera- tion I shall say nothing ; it is now almost exploded, and, I hope, will so n be entirely rejected from the practice of surgery. G G 2452 FIRST LINES Ql THE OF THE FUNCTURE ABOVE THE PUBIS. The best mode of performing this operation is in the fol- lowing manner. Let the surgeon make a perpendicular in- cision, about two inches in length, through the integuments /, and fat, covering the lower part of the linca alba. The v ound ought not to he made, as some surgeons direct, with its lowest part full an inch above the os ppbis. There is no real reason for avoiding this bone, and, the lower the incision of the above extent is made, the nearer it is to that part of the bladder, which it is most advisable to punc- ture, and the further it is from the peritoneum. lienee, the bottom of the incision should just meet the upper part of the above bone. A cut of the same length is next to be made between the pyramidal muscles, and, this being done, the surgeon can feel with his finger the prominent, distended bladder. A trocar, the curvature of which forms a segment of a circle seven inches in diameter, is now to be introduced into the exposed part of this viscus. When this instrument is held with its convexity upward, that is, towards the patient’s navel, it can be more conveniently in- troduced obliquely downward and backward info the blad- der,in the direction of the axis of this receptacle, than any sfraight trocar can possibly be. As M. Sabatier observes, a curved instrument, of this kind, is much less likely to pe- netrate the back part of the bladder, and wound the rec- tum ; besides, having this advantage, that when the urine is evacuated, and the viscus collapsed, the cannula will not be so apt, as that of a straight trocar, to be separated from the part, in which it has been introduced. When the operator perceives, by the want of resistance, lhal the point of the instrument is in the bladder, he is to take hold of the mouth of the cannula, and, while he pushes this further into the viscus, he is to withdraw the stilet. The cannula is to be allowed to remain in the wound, after the urine is evacuated. Its mouth is to be stopped with aPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 453 linen tent, and it is to be kept from slipping out by tapes, passed through the two little rings at the sides of the in* strument. Some surgeons are in the habit of passing an elastic gum catheter into the bladder through the cannula, and then taking the latter away. I cannot say, that I can perceive any utility, or advantage in this method. An elastic gum catheter does not fill the wound ; consequently, Ihe urine is discharged, not only through its cavity, but aLo between the track of the wound and the circumference of the in- strument, so that the chance of the urine becoming diffused into the cellular membrane is not guarded against, as it is by allowing the cannula to remain in the wound, at leasi, two, of three days, until inflammation has agglutinated to- gether the surrounding cellular substance, and removed the possibility of the urine becoming extravasated. It is now known, that after the above period, the cannula may be safely and easily taken out, and Introduced, as occasion may require. However, it is obvious, that the exit made for the urine, by the above operation, is merely designed as a temporary one, and that, as soon as the impediment to the passage of the water through the urethra is removed, the wound ought tb be allowed to heal. Whenever the prostate glaud is known io be very much enlarged, one would certainly prefer this mode of operating to puncturing the bladder through the rectum. The wound is made at a place, where there is no risk of injuring any part of importance; but, in this method, little as the chance is of an extravasation of the urine taking place, it is certainly a possible event, and the opening is not made in a depending situation, so that the whole of the urine cannot be conveniently evacuated, OP THE PUNCTURE THROUGH THE RECTUM. The palient is to be put in the posture, w hich will be re-FIE ST LINES OF THE 454 commended for lithotomy. An assistant is to make pres- sure on the abdomen, just above the os pubis, in order to make the prominence of the bladder more distinct to the surgeon’s finger in the rectum. A curved trocar, with its point drawn within the cannula, is to be introduced with the right hand, and conveyed upon the index finger of the left, as high as the surgeon can reach up the intestine, along the swelling, formed by the distended bladder. The instrument should be kept exactly in the central line of the front portion of the rectum, and, when conveyed suffi- ciently beyond the prostate gland, the point of the trocar is to be pushed into the bladder, through the anterior part of the intestine. This operation is so easy of accomplishment, and so very safe, that it certainly merits a general preference. The coats of the rectum and bladder, at this part, are Jn imme- diate contact, and the instrument has to penetrate no thick- ness of substance. The operation is not more painful, than venesection, and the distended bladder is so distinctly per- .ceptible to the finger, that no mistake can well be made. The only chance of doing mischief arises from the situation of the xesiculcB saninalesj but all risk is removed, when the trocar and the finger are introduced very high into the rectum, and the puncture is made exactly in the central part of the Swelling. Hence, the trocar, employed for this operation, ought to be somewhat longer than an ordinary one. The only inconvenience following the operation, is the necessity of keeping the cannula introduced, through the rectum, until the urine resumes its natural course. This circumstance is not only very troublesome, when the pa- tient walks or sits ; but is particularly so, at the time, when he goes to stool. The trouble, attendant on the evacua- tion of hardened faeces, may always be diminished by in- jecting a clyster. Whenever the patient has a motion, he is under the necessity of holding the cannula with his fin- gers, in order to prevent its .protrusion.455 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. I am of opinion, that no harm would ever result from withdrawing the cannula, after puncturing the bladder through the rectum. If the urethra should not be per- vious at the time, the frequent passage of urine through the wound would certainly be sufficient to beep it from clos.n^,, and the occasional passage of urine through the lower part of the rectum, would not be so irritating and troublesome, as the continual presence of the cannula. We read in the Medical Communications, xol. I., an ir,stance, in which the cannula was inadvertently withdrawn, forty-eight hours after the operation, and could not be introduced again. The urine was discharged into the rectum, through the wound, for six days afterwards ; and when it began to flow through the urethra, the wound healed without leaving any fistulous communication between the bladder and the rectum. Richter states, that the cannula has even been withdrawn immediately after the operation, without any inconveniences following the occurrence. However, it is not my'intention to advise the cannula to be withdrawn. This operation is not eligible, when the prostate gland is very much enlarged ; w hen there are large hemorrhoids present; or when the rectum is, what is term- ed, scirrho-contracted. To women it is obviously inapplicable, for anatomical reasons. In female patients, however, it is very practica- ble to puncture the bladder from the vagina. But, in these subjects, the urethra is so capacious and short, lhat the surgeon can hardly expect to be ever under the neces- sity of puncturing the bladder ; the catheter may almost always be introduced. Though the female bladder might, and, indeed, has been punctured from the vagina, I do not mean to recommend this method) for to me the operation above the pubis seems a better one.FIRST LINES OF THE 1 456 CHAP. L. INCONTINENCE OF URINE. AN inability to retain the urine in the bladder is of three kinds : in one the water continually dribbles away 'without any inclination to void it, or any sensation of its being voided. In other instances, the patient can hold his nrine in a certain degree; but the propensity to evacuate it comes on so frequently, suddenly, and irresistibly, that lie is compelled to make water. The third kind of incon- tmence only occurs during night, when the patient is asleep. The first kind of incontinence depends on a weakness, or total paralysis of the sphincter muscle of the bladder! As the neck of this organ is constantly open, every drop of urine escapes into the urethra, immediately it has descend- ed from the ureters, and does not lodge in the bladder at all. Sometimes the weakness, or paralysis of the sphincter muscle is quite a local disorder ; but, most frequently, it is only symptomatic of some other affection. In the first case, it is often the consequence of a'difficult labour, in which the neck of the bladder has been a long while com- pressed ; or of the distention, caused by a stone lodged at this part of the viscus. Sometimes, incontinence of urine depends on a malformation of the urinary passages, and exists from the time ot birth. The complaintis often only an effect of apoplexy, injuries and diseases of the spine, &c. ' . , If Is not dangerous, though exceedingly annoying, in consequence of its continually wetting the clothes, causing a disagreeable smell, and even excoriating parts, over which the urine flows.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 457 When the malady is local, tonics and astringents are in- dicated. Cold bathing, bark, blistering the sacrum or pe- rineum, the internal exhibition of the tinct. the shower bath, electricity, and rubbing the spine and sacrum with stimulating liniments, arejtke chief means. When the incontinence of urine is merely an effect of another disorder, the latter claims the principal attention. The second species of incontinence of urine is of a spas- modic nature, and commonly depends on some irritation operating on the bladder. Hence, the indication is to find out the irritation, and, if possible, to remove it. Hemor- rhoidal complaints, suppressed menses, a stone in the blad- der, ajfistula in ano, &c. may cause the affection. When the particular irritation cannot be discovered, general sooth- ing and antispasmodic remedies, such as opium, the warm bath, fomentations, &c. should be prescribed. The uxa ursi is said to be very useful in these cases : a scruple, or half a dram of the powder may be given, three times a day. This kind of incontinence of urine is frequently only a symptom of epilepsy, or hysteria. Sometimes if is entire- ly dependent on some pressure on the bladder; and hence, it may be a symptom of polypi of the uterus, a prolapsus of this viscus, or difficult parturition. The last sort of case, is that in which the urine is voided involuntarily in the night time, when the patient is asleep. The infirmity is mostly met with in young boys and girls ; and, for the most part, spontaneously goes off, as they ap- proach the adult state. Such subjects as are troubled, in this manner, should avoid drinking any fluid, just before going to bed, and should be particularly careful to emptyr the bladder, before they go to sleep. When the infirmity afflicts adult persons, and does not yield to the above precautions, onc-fourth of a grain of the powder of cantharides, given with milk of almonds, every evening, has been known to be of service. If this45S FIRST LIftES OF THE medicine should be ineffectual, the practitioner may try the effect of exhibiting a grkin of opium, or two grains of ipecacuanha, every night, a little before bed-time. I have not thought it necessary to describe any particu- lar apparatus for catching the urine, in cases in which no cure can be accomplished. There is a particular incontinence of urine, arising from the formation of a preternatural communication between the bladder and vagina. It is usually the consequence of a slough, and sometimes follows difficult labours. The continual dribbling of the urine, through the opening, ge- nerally prevents it from healing ; but by making the pa- tient lie a good deal on her belly, the water is hindered from constantly escaping, and then the aperture sometimes heals. ' Attempts have been made to close the preternatural opening, by scarifying its edges, and keeping them after- wards in reciprocal contact, for a certain time, by means of a twisted suture. If such an operation were found to be practicable, it would be proper to make the patient lie on her abdomen, as much as possible, during the space of two or three days, that is, till the suture were removed. ' CHAP. LI. IMPERFORATED VAGINA. THE vagina, in these cases, is commonly found shut up by a membrane, which is, in fact, the hymen without any aperture in its centre. In new born infants, this mem- brane, sometimes, extends so far forward, that it covers the orifice of the meatus urinarius, and prevents the evacua- tion of the urine.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. Vv hen the membrane is situated behind the meatus tm- narius, no inconvenience is perceived, until the period, when the menstrual discharge commences. As this evacu- ation cannot escape externally, it accumulates in the va- gina, so as to occasion several local and general complaints, which lead to an examination of the parts, and to the de- tection of the malformation. Pain in the loins; a sense of heaviness and tension in the uterus ; hardness of the abdo- men ; frequent propensity to make water, and even a reten- tion of urine ; pain in going to stool, &c. are the inconve- niences usually resulting from the imperforated vagina. The patient is also observed to have no'evacuation from the uterus, at the age, when it naturally ought to take place. The above complaints are experienced every month ; but they afflict the patient continually, when a large accu- mulation of blood lias occurred. At length, giddiness, paleness, swelling of the belly, drowsiness, and ellorts, like those of labour, exasperate the state of the case. The nature of the disorder may easily be detected by an ocular examination. Careless practitioners, however, may easily fall into error, and suppose, that all the above com- plaints originate from chlorosis, or pregnancy. The operation for the relief of this case is very simple. The surgeon is to divide the membrane by a longitudinal incision, made from the place just below the meatus ur, ina- rms downward. After the accumulated fluid has been eva- cuated, the edges of the divided membrane are to be kept asunder for two or three days afterwards, by means of a dossil of lint. If the dark, thick discharge does not easily escape, warm water must be injected to promote the eva- cuation. Sometimes the vagina is closed, not by a membrane, but by a concretion of the opposite surfaces of the labia, nym- phee, and mouth of the vagina. No opening is discerni- ble, except a small one from which the urine flows. At the same time, tbere is always to be seen a white''raphe, or line.460 FIRST LIKES OF TIIE extending from the aperture directly downward, and easily distinguished from the other parts by its firmness; and whiteness. This case is sometimes an original malfor- mation ; but, in other instances, it results from neglecting to keep the parts asunder, when in an excoriated state. & When a director can be introduced, through the above Opening into the vagina, the surgeon is to pass a straight narrow bistoury along the groove of the instrument, and then make a division of the parts, in the direction of the above mentioned raphe. When the director cannot be introduced, the surgeon must use the knife cautiously, taking care not to wound the rectum, nor bladder. When only the nymphcz are adherent together, the se- paration is very easily accomplished. The divided surfaces are always to be kept asunder, by means of lint, or pieces of sponge, until the parts have bfe^ come completely cicatrized. CHAP. LII. IMPERFORATED ANUS. OF this case there are three varieties* In the first, the anus is either closed by a membrane, or it is too contracted to allow the fasces to be easily evacuated. In the second, the anus appears to be properly formed, and the finger, or probe, may be introduced into the cavity of the rectum, for some way ; but this terminates in a cul-de-sac above.- In the third kind of case, there is no Vestige whatever of the anus. With such malformations, we may arrange cases, in which the rectum opens into the bladder, urethra, or va»PRACTICE OF SURGERY, 4$1 gina. When such a circumstance occurs in female chil- dren, they may possibly lire, in. consequence of the great dilatation, of which their urethra is susceptible, and the vagina being a sufficiently capacious passage for the exit of the faeces. Male children, on the contrary, must ine- vitably perish. The first kind of imperforation is easily distinguishable. The child does not discharge the meconium; he makes great efforts, which, at last, are attended with convulsions. A membrane, of rather a transparent nature, is visible in the situation of the anus, and, through it, the colour of the meconium may be seen. In consequence of the continual efforts, which the infant makes, the membrane becomes mpre and more protruded, so as to form a tumour. When there is a very small opening, the fluid part of the meco- nium escapes; the child makes less considerable efforts; but these are sufficient to excite alarm. The defect is rea- dily detected by an examination. If the anus should be closed by a membrane, this should be divided by a crucial incision, and, if necessary, the an- gles may then be removed. The frequent evacuation of the intestinal matter will be quite sufficient to keep the opening pervious. When there is an aperture at the anus, but it is too nar- row, it is to be dilated, in the most convenient direction, by means of a crooked bistoury and a director. This case is not so simple as the former one; for the extremity of the rectum may be contracted, as well as the integuments. In this circumstance, the edges of the wound will be very prone to contract again, if not mechanically dilated, until a complete cicatrization has taken place. The whole of the sphincter ani may also be cut, and an inability to re- tain the fieces be the irremediable consequence. The second species of imperforated anus is very danger- ous, on many accounts; but, particularly, because very liable to be a long time unnoticed,, by reason of the exter-452 FIRST LINES OF THE i nal appearance of the parts being natural. The impedi- ment to the passage of the excrement may be ascertained by introducing the little finger Into the rectum, or, -when this is impracticable, by using a probe. If the obstruction is near the end of the rectum, a division of it might be made with a narrow knife, M. Sabatier recommends cut- ting from the sacrum, towards the scrotum, or pudenda. Any stoppage, situated far up,the intestine, can only be re- moved by puncturing it with a trocar, introduced through a cannula. The instrument should have a curve, corres- ponding .to the semilunar form of the rectum. This ope- ration is performed, as it were, in the dark, and is by no pietans a pleasant one to undertake. The third kind of imperforated anus presents nothing externally, by which the situation of the end of the intes- tine is indicated. This part may be so remote, that it would be impossible to find it by any practicable method. How can cutting instruments be employed in so deep a si- tuation ? If the operator were to succeed in procuring ap exit for the meconium, through what a thickness of parts would it not have to pass ? The light of anatomy, as M. Sabatier observes, would here be invoked in vain. Almost all infants have died soon after an operation for this sort of imperforation, even though the rectum had been found, and opened. In these cases, it has been proposed by Littre to cut into the abdomen above the left groin, and to endeavour to esta- blish an artificial anus, by opening the colon in this situa- tion. Such an operation, indeed, seems to have been prac- tised with success, by a French surgeon, named Du ret,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 4453 I ■ / CHAP. LIII. FISTULA IN ANO. ' i THIS terra is applied to every abscess in the vicinity of the anus, but very improperly ; for the idea of there being a fistula naturally leads to the adoption of measures, to- tally different from those, which are applicable to common Sr ' abscesses. Sometimes the complaint makes its attack, in the form of phlegmonous inflammation, attended with sympathetic fever. A part of the buttock near the anus is considerably swollen, and has a large circumscribed hardness. The middle of this hardness soon becomes very red, and matter forms in its centre. As Mr. Pott remarks, the pain is sometimes great, the fever high, the tumour large and ex- quisitely tender; but, however high the symptoms may have risen, before suppuration, yet, when that end is fairly and fully accomplished, the patient generally becomes easy, and free from fever. The matter, though plentiful, is good. On other occasions, the fistula in ano begins as an erysi- pelatous inflammation, without any of the circumscribed hardness, which characterizes the preceding tumour. The affection, on the contrary, spreads more extensively ; the disease is more superficial; the quantity of matier small, and the cellular membrane sloughy to a considerable ex-; tent. Sometimes the complaint begins somewhat like a car- buncle. Die skin is of a dusky red, or purple kind of co- lour, and, although harder than in the natural s'ate, yet it is not nearly so tense as in phlegmonous, or erysipelatous inflammation.464 FIRST LINES OF THE At first, the pulse is full and hard; but, if no relief be obtained, it soon becomes unequal, low, and faultering; and the strength and spirits are greatly dejected. The matter, formed under the skin, is small in quantity, and bad in quality, and the cellular membrane is in a sloughy state. This species of the malady affects persons, whose habit, as Mr. Pott remarks, is either naturally bad, or has been rendered so by intemperance. These different affections often influence parts in the neighbourhood of the disease. Hence, retention of urine, strangury, prolapsus ani, tenesmus, piles, diarrhoea, or ob- stinate costiveness, are frequently added to the above de- scribed mischief. , Sometimes thefistula in ono first appears as an indura-. tion of the skin near the anus ; but without pain, and altera- tion of colour; which hardness gradually softens and sup- purates. The matter may cither point in the buttock, at a distance from the anus ; or near this latter part; or in the perine- um. The matter may escape from one opening, or from several. Sometimes, there is not only an external aperture, but another internal one communicating with the cavity of the intestine. In other instances, there is only one exter- nal, or internal opening. The matter may be formed at a considerable distance from the rectum, which is not even laid bare by it; at others, it is laid bare, but not perforated ; sometimes it is both denuded, and pierced. TREATMENT. These inflammations can scarcely be prevented from, falling into suppuration. Hence, the indications arc, to moderate the symptoms, to promote the formation of mat- ter, and, when this has collected, to let it out, and treat the sore, in such a manner, as shall be most likely to produce a speedy cure. (465 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. A soft poultice is the best application for promoting sup- puration. When the inflammation is phlegmonous, the thinner the skin is suffered to become, before the abscess is opened, the better. If the patient be of a full, sanguine habit, venesection, and mild purgatives, are proper. When the attack is of an erysipelatous kind, and there is a sloughy state of the cellular membrane, the sooner it is opened, the better. As Mr. Pott observes, if we wait for the matter to point, we shall wait for what will not hap- pen, at least, not till after a considerable length of time, during which the disease in the membrane will extend it- self, and, consequently, the cavity of the sinus, or abscess, be thereby greatly increased. When the fistula in ano commences with that kind of in- flammation, which a carbuncle exhibits, no evacuations are necessary. The part should be opened early by a very free incision. In opening all abscesses about the anus, the incision should be so large as to divide all the skin covering the matter. Thus the abscess will be discharged at once; fu- ture lodgment of matter will be prevented : and convenient room will be made for the application of proper dressings. Allfistulas in ano do not necessarily interest the rectum : sometimes the matter is so distant from the intestine, that the surgeon has no more to do with this part, than if it were not to exist, and the abscess is to be treated upon ge- neral principles. The idea of callosity, naturally attached to the term fis- tula, is the great cause, why former surgeons were in the habit of distending abscesses, about the anus, with escha- rotics, and why they eycn sometimes cut away consider- able portions of flesh. It is true, there is hardness gone-* rally surrounding fistulas in ano, but this is only such as accompanies every other description of abscess. The dressings, applied to the cavities of those collec- tions of matter, ought to be so small in quantity, as to al- ii u400 FIRST LINES OF THE low li a Hire (o approximate the, si ties of the cavity together, and they should be quite miirritating. By such simple treatment, the necessity of meddling with the rectum will often be removed. But it more frequently happens, that the intestine, although not pierced by the matter, has yet been so denuded, that the sinus will not heal, without laying the cavity of the abscess, and that of the intest ine into one. The operation consists in dividing the rectum, from the top of the hollow, in which the matter is lodged, as far as the anus. Thus the sinus is converted into an open wound. A harrow* curved, probe-pointed knife, is the proper in- strument, and if it can be guided by a director, introduced through the track of the fistula, quite as far as the intes- tine, so much the better. The surgeon’s forefinger in the rectum w ill here feel the point of the knife. Then the di- rector, if used, is to be withdrawn, and the operation is to be completed, by bringing the knife out, with its point ap- plied to the linger, which was in the intestine. In this manner, all that is between the edge of the knife and the anus, must obviously be divided. Immediately after the operation, a soft dossil of fine lint should be introduced, from the rectum, betAveen the lips of the incision. This first dressing should remain, till loosen- ed by suppuration. All the future dressings should be light, soft, and unirritating. The hardness and swelling following the operation, must not be regarded as a diseased callosity, or lead the surgeon to use pernicious escharotic applications. A T bandage is usually employed. We have now to consider fistula: in ana in the state, in which they are after having spontaneously burst. When the matter has only made its escape through ex- ternal openings, these are termed blind external fistula When the matter has only an opening in the intestine, and none in the skin, the fistula is called a blind internal one. Fistula1, inning an opening, both in the skin, and gut, arePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 467 termed complete. The first and last kind of case is the most common. A probe is to be introduced to asceitain the nature of the case, and the operation, already describ- ed, is the proper one for obtaining a cure. When there are several openings, and corresponding sinuses, they are all to be divided, so as to make one cavity of the whole. This can be most conveniently done w ith a curved knife. In cases of blind internalfistulce, if the bursting and dis- charge of the matter should not produce a cure, which they sometimes do, though very seldom, an external open- in <r is to be made into the collection of matter, and then the same operation, as has been already described for other cases, is to be put into execution. The place, where the outward opening should be made, is alw ays sufficiently in- dicated by the induration. When the sinuses of abscesses have become really and truly fistulous, in consequence of mismanagement, and their long existence, nothing more is necessary than to lay them freely open, and dress them w ith simple unirritating appli- cations. Sometimes the health must yet be improved, be- fore a cure can be accomplished, and many, who cannot recover in hospitals, do so on removing imo the country, where the ay: is more pure. CHAP. LIV. PROLAPSUS ANI. < i OF this complaint there arc three varieties ; in one, the rectum, together with all its tunics, falls downward; in another, only its internal coal is protruded : and, in the third species, an upper portion of the intestine descends ipto the lower one, so as even sometimes to protrude at the II h 2468 ' f.IRST LINES OF THE anus. The last case is termed a volvulus, or intussusceptio. When we speak of a prolapsus ani, we commonly mean the first kind of disorder. As the intestine descends, it becomes turned inside out: hence, the outside of the pro- truded part is, in fact, the inside of the gut. There are two kinds of causes, by which tlieprolapsus is produced, viz. such as weaken the sphincter, and parts, re- taining the rectum in its situation ; or such as force the in- testine downward. Those of the first description are only predisposing ones; but the latter causes often occasion a prolapsus quite independently of the others. Costiveness, and hardened faeces, which distend thereetum and sphinc- ter ani; and emollient clysters, which relax these parts; are the chief predisposing causes. The prolapsus ani is mostly seen afflicting children and aged persons ; the first, on account of the relaxation and elasticity in their sj^- tems; the latter, on account of the want of muscular power in the sphincter #ni. When the rectum has once descended, a weakness and relaxation are very apt to con- tinue afterwards, occasioning a recurrence of the complaint from the slightest causes. Among the second class of causes, we have to enumerate, long continued inclination to go to stool, kept up by hemorrhoids; ascaridps; a fistula in emo : a stone in the bladder; diarrhoea ^labour pains, &c. When the prolapsus is recent and inconsiderable, its re- duction may frequently be effected by gentle pressure with the hand. But when the protruded portion of the gut is large, and the prolapsus lias existed several hours, the re- duction very often cannot be so easily accomplished. Then the following plan is to be tried. The patient having emptied his bladder, is to place himself in a position, in which he rests upon his knees and elbows. The surgeon is now to try to reduce the prolapsus, by making alternate pressure, first on one side, then on the other, of that por- tion of the gut, which is nearest the opening, until thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. m whole is returned. Though the whole may have been re- duced within the anus, still the gut is ready to protrude again at the first opportunity. Hence, the prolapsed piece of intestine must be pushed further upward, than just within the anus. Sometimes the reduction cannot be effected, on account of an incessant, involuntary, spasmodic straining. Here soft poultices, and opiate draughts, and clysters, are indi- cated. A large quantity of hardened excrement in the large intestines may render reduction difficult: in this case, the object can be accomplished, after the bowels have been emptied by clysters. When the prolapsed portion of the gut is very much swollen, its size may be lessened by applying leeches, or cold lotions to it; or by making long- continued pressure, before trying to reduce it. After the prolapsus has been reduced, the patient must keep himsejf, for a time, in a horizontal posture, for the intestine is very progc to fall down again. Also, to prevent this event, cor- roborant astringent clysters may be administered. But, above all things, it is essential to keep the bowels free from costiveness. When reduction is long delayed, the tumour may become painful and inflamed. Schmucker confirms, that the same symptoms as attend a strangulated hernia, and even death, may follow the protraction of the case. The immediate cause is the constriction, produced on the bowel by the sphincter' ani. The proper line of conduct for the surgeon is to employ general, and,particularly, topical bleeding; cold lotions ; and gentle, long-continued, equal pressure. If such measures should fail, and the dangerous symptoms increase, it is necessary to divide the sphincter ani, by means of a curved bistoury, and a director. Every prolapsus occasions a remaining weakness and re- laxation, in such pads, as retain the bowel in its natural position; and, for this reason, the complaint, when nog-470 FIRST LINES OF THE lectcd, often becomes habitual. A proper bandage, and corroborant astringent clysters may her'1 be of service. The clysters are usually composed of the decoction of oak bark, with alum, port wine, &c. When these fail, some benefit may be obtained from wear- ing the T bandage, with a piece of sponge, applied, as a compress, to the anus. It is to be observed, however, that though bandages keep up the bowel, a volvulus frequently follows their employment, and, as they are of necessity taken off, wheq the patient goes to stool, they present a very faint prospect of radically curing even the prolapsus am, as the bowel regularly descends, whenever there is a motion. The patient should be cautioned to prevent the descent of the gut with his finger, on this occasion ; but he cannot always hinder the event. When a prolapsus ani has been neglected, and has not been properly kept reduced, the protruded rectum often loses all vestige of its natural texture, and becomes indu- rated, exceedingly thickened, and, as it were, quite cal- lous and insensible. The patient experiences no inconve- nience, except what results from a large, hard tumour at the anus. Hence, the disorder is usually left to itself. However, a long perseverance in a horizontal posture, fre- quent long-continued pressure, and the constant use of cold washes, have been known to diminish the size o! such a tu- mour, so as to render its return practicable. If the large callous tumour should ulcerate, impede the exit o tie faeces, or become, in any other way, exceedingly trouble- some, the surgeon may amputate the part. VOLVULUS, on INTUS^USCEPTIC. This is hardly to be distinguished from the prolapsus ani The protruded intestine is not the rectum, but lire colon. The cecum, and even the ilium, may protrude out Of the rectum ; then, of course, the nature ol the case isPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 471 clear from the structure of these viscera. I he parts may be returned into the rectum ; but the case is incurable, for who can undertake to replace the colon, much less the other intestines, in their natural position ? CHAP. LV. PROLAPSUS UTLRL IN this case, the uterus falls down into the vagina, and the os lincce may be distinguished just behind the orifice of this tube. Sometimes the womb is even completely pro- truded from the vagina, so as to become situated in front of the external parts of generation. The first is the incom- plete : the second the complete prolapsus uteri. Patients, having an incomplete prolapsus, experience va- rious inconveniences, which originate from the pressure of the uterus on the bladder, and rectum, and from tlie drag- ging of such parts, as are connected with the displaced viscus. The principal complaints, from the first cause, are impediments to the passage of tlie fieces, and retention oi urine. A painful stretching sensation in the loins arises from the second one. The pressure, and irritation, of the tumour on the surrounding parts, are also usually produc- tive of a great discharge. When a complete prolapsus happens, the symptoms, dependent on the pressure of the uterus on the adjacent parts, abate; but those, which arise from the dragging of parts connected with this viscus, very often now undergo a considerable exasperation. The cervix uteri, in descend- ing, always carries downward with it the upper part of the vagina. When the uterus is protruded out of the ex- ternal parts, the whole vagina is drawnolownward viitk it,475 FIRST LINES OF THE so as to cover the external surface. The uterus now lianas down at the labia, between which and. the viscus there is no interspace, into which the finger, or probe, can lie intro- ' duced. This case cannot happen without the bladder and rectum being considerably deranged, in regard to posi- tion. The first is always drawn backward, so as to take the natural situation of the uterus, and assume, as well as the meatus urinarius, a horizontal position. Hence, we see in what direction a catheter should generally be intro- duced in these cases. As the return of blood from the prolapsed uterus is usually more or less obstructed, the part frequently be- comes very much swollen, and even copious discharges of blood occur. The naturally delicate texture of the lining of the vagina undergoes such an alteration, that iiseems more like the s'rucure of the common integuments. The triction of the clo'hes on the swelling, however, mostly occasions very painful ulcerations on the outside of the vagina, if the prolapsus should be recent. But when the parts have been long down, they adapt them- selves to their new situation, and hence we see an old negr lected prolapsus attended with no particular occurrences, except the descent of the tumour, when the patient is erect, and its return when she is in a recumbent posture. Polypi are the only disease, with which the prolapsus uteri can be confounded ; and the mode of discrimination must.be learnt by referring to the chapter on this other subject. The causes of theprolapsus uteri are such as either relax the parts retaining the ulerns in its natural position, or such as force this organ downward. Women, who have had many children, are particularly subject to the complaint. The prolapsus is also very liable to occur soon after deli- very, when all the parts of generation are dilated and re- laxed . The second class of causes are any great exertions, or473 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. •concussions of the body; but we can hardly conceive, that such circumstances would be adequate to the produc- tion of the case, if the vagina, and parts, retaining the uterus in its situation, were not greatly relaxed. There are two indications in the treatment : viz. to reduce the uterus into its natural position ; and to prevent its descending again. The first object is, in general, very easy of accomplishment, when the prolapsus is incomplete. The second is effected by making the patient wear a pes- sary in the vagina, and use corroborant astringent injec- tions. The reduction of a complete prolapsus, of long stand- ing, is sometime difficult. The operation should be done before the patient gets out of bed in the morning. It is sometimes of use to empty the large intestines, by a clys- ter, before a Tempting reduction. However, the thicken- ing of the prolapsed viscus, and the alteration made in the position of the surrounding parts, in some instances, ren- der the design quite impracticable. In this circumstance we must be content with drawing off the urine with a catheter, if requisite, and supporting the part with a bandage. The presence of ulcerations is no reason for not attempt- ing to reduce the displaced part. When the tumour is very much inflamed and swollen, it is sometimes advisable to defer the attempt to replace the uterus, until bleeding, the application of cold washes, &c. have diminished the above state. In recent cases of prolapsus uteri, we may hope to effect a radical cure by bringing the relaxed and dilated parts into another state. This may be accomplished by intro- ducing into the vagina, immediately the uterus has been reduced, a sponge, which is to be frequently vetted with some astringent lotion. A compress, supported by the T bandage, is, also, to be applied to the external parts of generation. The patient must remain in a horizontal IFIRST LINES OF THE 474 posture, and carefully avoid all strong efforts in going to stool, making water, &c. The piece of sponge should be of a globular, or cylindrical shape, Cold clysters may, likewise, be injected. Whenever a radical cure cannot be performed, pessaries are to be worn, that is, if the part can be reduced. For a description of pessaries, the author must refer the reader to books on midwifery. CHAP. LVI. INVERSIO UTERI. SOMETIMES, the uterus descends through its own mouth into the vagina, and occasionally quite out of the vulva. The first is the incomplete, the second the com- plete inversio uteri. In the latter, the vagina is, also, drawn downward, and inverted, so that tire whole tumour, situated before the parts of generation, seems to hang by a pedicle, formed of the inverted vagina. Between this pe- dicle, and the labia, there is no interspace, into which a probe can be passed. The outer surface of the tumour is, in fact, the inner lining of the uterus. As the fundus uteri evidently cannot descend through the os tincce, unless this aperture be very much dilated, it is obvious, that the inversio uteri can only occur immedi- ately after delivery. An unskilful employment of force, in extracting the placenta, is a very common occasion of the accident. Polypi growing from the fundus uteri are, however, particular cases, in which the inversion of this organ may occur from its being dragged dow nward by the weight of these tumours,475 practice of surgery. Great pain, inflammation, tumefaction, and hemorrhage, usually follow the inversio uteri. Even mortification, convulsions, and death may take place, in «nSequence of the complete stage of the disorder, parltcularly » ben it has occurred in a very sadden manner. The method of distinguishing the case from a polypus, has already been noticed in the first part ot this work The reduction of the inverted uterus ought not to bedc- layed a moment. The longer the operation is deterred, the more difficult it becomes ; for, in general, pam, nmam- mation, and swelling, come on with great rapidity. When inflammation has already occurred, leeches and fomentations should be applied to the tumour, and the reduction be afterwards attempted. In very old cases, in which the fundus uteri nas suffered long compressions in die vagina, the vneus becomes alter- ed in its structure and figure so much, that the inversion is totally incurable. T he further descent of the viscus can only be prevented by the employment of a pessary. CIIAP. LVII. RETROVERSIO UTERI. THE uterus may cither be turned forward, or backward; the last is the most common, and is named retroversio. In the first case, the fundus uteri becomes situated towards the os pubis, over the fundus of the bladder ; while the os uteri is inclined towards the sacrum, and middle part of the rectum, and is often situated so high up, that it can Jiardly be reached by the finger.FIRST LINES OF THE 476 Tlic pat leaf generally experiences a constant inclination to make water; feels pain whenever pressure is made above • the os pubis ; and, on standing up, perceives a hard body fall on the bladder, compelling her to empty this recepta- cle ; but the tumour regularly falls backward again, when she lies on her back. Tins case is usually easily relieved. The practitioner should place the patient on iter back, and make pressure ■with his hand just over the os ptibis. At the same time a finger introduced to the upper part of the vagina, is to press it forward, so as to urge the os uteri forward, while the pressure of the other hand is tending to push backward the fundus. The recurrence of the accident is to be pre- vented by introducing a pessary to support the os uteri; keeping the patient on her back; and applying a com- press and bandage to the abdomen just above the pubis. In the true retroversio, theo.s- uteri is inclined towards the pubis, while its fundus is approximated to the sacrum, and descends so far between the rectum and vagina, that' it occasions a tumour at the posterior side of the latter tube. The viscus, thus situated, may render the passage of the faeces exceedingly difficult, and even impossible. As the preternatural position of the uterus necessarily displaces the bladder and urethra, retention of urine always attends the case, and this is the more troublesome, as the catheter, in such circumstances, cannot be very easily introduced. The orifice of the urethra is so drawn upward, that it is sometimes situated higher than the arch of the pubis. When the bladder is very much distended, it prevents the os uteri from being felt with the finger. The retroversio uteri commonly happens during the second, third, or fourth month of pregnancy. In the latter months, the uterus is too bulky to become situated between the vagina and rectum. The retroverted uterus should always be replaced, ns soon as possible, in its natural situation. The longer thePRACTICE OF SURGERY. 477 case lifts lasted, tlie more difficult it is to icctiiy it, and tiie U)(3 danger ot tlic occurrence increases, d he greatest urgency arises from the retention of urine, and impedi- ment to the passage of the ioeces. The distention of the bladder and rectum must naturally render the reduction of the uterus more difficult. Sometimes abortion takes place, and this event has occasionally been known to be productive of relief. As the return of the uterus to its natural position is al- ways greatly facilitated by drawing off the urine with a catheter, this operation should be first performed. The uterus has often been known to resume its proper situation, on the bladder being emptied. So much difficulty has, sometimes, been experienced in introducing a catheter, in these cases, that some practitioners have been obliged to puncture the bladder. However, few, who know the way in which the urethra is displaced by a retrorcersio uteri, would find such a proceeding necessary. The rec- tum should, also, be emptied, if possible, by clysters. Reduction is accomplished by making pressure on the fundus uteri, with two fingers introduced into the rectum. The chief impediment to success arises from the projection of the sacrum. Hence, the pressure should be so directed, as to avoid forcing the uterus against this part. The operation should be accomplished, while the patient is kneeling, and leaning on her elbows ; for, in this position, the uterus becomes more distant from the sacrum. The fundus uteri should be pushed upward and forward, to- ward the navel. Sometimes it is preferable to make pres- sure with the fingers in the vagina.FIRST LINES OF THE 473 CIIAP. LVIIX. LITHOTOMY. WHEN a stone in the bladder is trivial in size, and very smooth externally, little inconvenience may result from it. However, when the stone is large, or irregular in its figure, it occasions various complaints. An uneasiness is felt at (he extremity of the penis, and hence, patients get into the habit of drawing the prepuce repeatedly for- ward, so that it becomes greatly elongated; a sense of weight is experienced in the perineum; there is frequent inclination to make water, and go to stool; the stream of urine sometimes stops suddenly, and is discharged in an interrupted manner, although the bladder still contains a large quantity ; the evacuation is attended with pain, es- pecially towards the end ; the urine contains a good deal of mucus, and sometimes blood, and earthy particles, when the patient has taken exercise. Besides such symp- toms, there is a numbness in the thighs; the testicles are often painful, and retracted, &c. An enlarged prostate gland is attended with symptoms, resembling those of a stone in the bladder ; but with this difference, that the motion of m coach, or horse, does not increase the grievances, when the prostate is affected, while it does so in an intolerable degree, in cases of stone. It also generally happens, that the fits of the stone come on at intervals, whereas the pain from a diseased prostate is nei- ther so unequal, nor so acute. As the symptoms of stone in the bladder bear a strong resemblance to those of several other affections, surgeons never form a decisive opinion, until they have introduced a metallic instrument into the bladder, and actually touch- ed the stone itself. As the extraneous body generally liesPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 473 at the lowest part of this viscus, the sound is usually made less curved than a catheter, in order that it may more easily touch any thing situated immediately behind, and below, the neck of the bladder. The sound is only a particular kind of probe, and, as its chief use is to convey informa- tion, through the medium of the organ of touch, its handle should be smooth and well polished, so that as many points of its surface may be in contact with the fingers as pos- sible. The mode of introducing this instrument is the same, as that of passing a catheter. When it is in the bladder, it is to be pushed downward, to ascertain, whether the stone lies beneath its convexity. If the extraneous body should not be felt in this manner, the instrument may be turned first to one, and then to the other side of the cavity of the bladder. Should the stone not be struck by moving the sound in this manner, the in- strument may be drawn forward, for the purpose of learn- ing, whether the calculus is more anteriorly situated. Frequently, the stone cannot be felt till the whole of the urine has been expelled, and the bladder lias become con- tracted. Sometimes the sound may be made to strike against the stone, by introducing the finger into the rec- tum, and thus raising the extraneous body upward. The calculus is even very often distinctly perceptible to the finger. Surgeons make it an invariable rule never to perform lithotomy, unless the stone can be plainly stricken by the sound, or staff, immediately before the operation. A man may have a stone in the bladder to day, and the surgeon may strike it so manifestly with the sound, as to make the circumstance perceptible to the cars of (lie byestanders, as well as to his own fingers; but to-morrow the stone may have protruded through the fasciculi of the muscular coat of the bladder, carrying along witli it a pouch, formed by' the lining ot this viscus, and, in this circumstance, theFIRST LINES OF THE 48(3 stone is no longer in the cavity of the bladder ; conse- quently, it can neither be felt by sounding, nor extracted by the operation of lithotomy. The rectum should be era tied by a clyster, before the time of operating ; the contents of the bladder, however, should not be evacuated, if this event can be hindered. _ i- A - J , 4 i LATERAL OPERATION. The patient is to be placed at the edge of a firm table, and the staff is to be introduced into the bladder. Then two garters, each about two yards long, are to be doubled, and placed, by means of a nno c, r ;und the patient ’s wrists. The patient is now to take hold of the outside of his feet with his hands, in such a manner, that the fingers are ap- plied to the soles. The two ends of the ligature are then to be carried round the ankle, next over the back of the hand, and under the foot. Then they are to be tied. In this manner, each hand and toot may be securely con- nected together. The staff, in fact, is only a director, with a groove for o’uidinff a cutting instrument into the bladder. It is shaped, 'like a sound, or catheter, in order to admit of being introduced through the urethra.' However, it is more curved and longer, than these instruments ; and its handle is rough, that the surgeon may hold it more firmly. There are two advantages in its being sufficiently curved : viz. its convexity is more plainly distinguishable in the .peri- neum ; and, on depressing the handle of the instrument, the groove, on the end of the convexity of the cuivature, can more readily be brought to run in the axis of the blad- der. The utility of the length of the instrument is very ob- vious \ as the operator is thereby less liable to think the staff in the bladder, when it is not so ; an i the beak of the gorget should still be in the groove, when introduced as far as necessary. An assistant is to hold the staff, making its convexitvPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 4SI prominent in the perineum, by keeping the handle of the instrument inclined towards the patient’s abdomen. The person who holds the Staff is to turn the groove a little to- wards the left side of the perineum, and is to raise the stratum with his left hand, in order td expose the peri- neum completely to the surgeon s view. In the majority of surgical works, Ihe operator is direct- ed to divide the bulb of the urethra, among other parts, cut by his first incision. This advice is exceedingly wrong, and the adoption of it is most likely to render the extraction of the stone exceedingly difficult. The opera- tor, for instance, begins his incision as high as the bulb of the urethra, and extends it to the usual length ; he next divides the prostate and neck of the bladder with the gor- get. Now, on attempting to take out the stone, the ex- ternal part of the wound is too high* in regard to the in- ternal portion* and the same impediment to extracting the stone arises, as if the wound were too small. I am de- cidedly of opinion, that a free, and direct opening, for the passage of the stone, ought always to be made in the opera- tion of lithotomy, and that the fatal termination of numer- ous cases, is entirely owing to the wound not being suffi- ciently ample and direct. The laceration of the bladder, which must happen under such circumstances, is too fre- quently productive of peritoneal inflammation, the most alarming consequence of the operation. Now nothing has a greater tendency to render the wound indirect, than making the incision through the skin too high up, or in other words, so high as to interest the bulb of the urethra. On the contrary, the wound should commence over the membranous part of the urethra, at the place where the operator means to make his first cut into the groove ot the staff'; and the incision is to extend about three inches obliquely downward, to the left of the rapine ot the peri- neum: Having made the necessary division of the integu- ments, Ihe next object is to divide the transzersales per inti4S2 FIRST LINES OF THE muscles* and to make an opening into the membranous part of the urethra, so as to be distinctly able to feel the groove and edges of the staff with the finger. Then the operator is to accomplish a very important object* and one which is, for the most part, very much neglected ; I allude to dividing the urethra with the knife, as far as pos- sible along the groove of the staff, towards the bladder. When this is properly done, very little remains to be ef- fected by the gorget. Every operator should be particularly careful, that the beak of the gorget is accurately adapted to the groove of the staff. In my opinion, the gorget ought not to have its edge turned upward, at an angle of forty-five degrees, as Mr. Abemethy advises. By cutting in this direction, the pudendal artery is more apt to be wounded, than when the incision is made more in a transverse manner, because the rami of the ischium converge as they ascend ; and, for the same reason, by using a gorget with an edge turned so much upward, the wound can hardly be made large enough for the extraction of stones of considerable size. The cutting edge of a gorget ought, certainly, not to ex- ceed three-fourths of an inch in length. Having made a free opening into the urethra, as low down as can be conveniently done, the operator is to place the beak of the gorget in the groove of the staff, and, being sure that this is accomplished, he is to take hold of the handle of the latter instrument with his left hand, while, with his right, he holds the beak of the gorget carefully ap- plied to the groove of the staff, along which it is to glide into the bladder. But before pushing the gorget onward, a most important thing is to be observed : this is to bring forward the handle of the staff, so as to elevate the extre- mity of the instrument in the bladder, by which means the gorget may be introduced, along the groove of the stafi, in the direction of the axis of the above viscus. In fact, the gorget should be introduced nearly in a direction, coi-433 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. responding to a line drawn from the o$ cocrygis to the umbilicus. By following this plan, the gorget can hardly ever wound the rectum, or insituate itself into the cellular substance, between this intestine and the bladder. The ut- most caution must be observed to maintain the groove of the staff, and beak of the gorget, in contact; When the gorget has been introduced, the staff is to be withdrawn, and a proper pair of forceps is to be passed, along the concave surface of the gorget, into the bladder, for the purpose of seizing, and extracting the stone; While the operator is passing the forceps along the gorget, the latter instrument must be kept quite motionless, lest its sharp edge should do mischief; and, immediately the forceps is in the bladder, the Cutting gorget is to be with- drawn. / It is very questionable, whether it would not be better always to withdraw the gorget, as soon as the incision is completed. Very good surgeons are of opinion, that when the wound is made in the above direction and free man- ner, there never can be any difficulty in passing the for- ceps into the bladder, without any guidance of the gorget. For my own part, I cannot conceive, that a blunt gorget need ever be introduced, after the cutting one has been withdrawn ; for the forceps must obviously pass through the wound, quite as easily as any blunt gorget can possibly do. The next object is to take hold of the stone with the blades of the forceps. In order to accomplish this pur- pose, the operator should not expand the instrument, as soon as it has arrived in the bladder ; but, he should make use of the instrument as a kind of probe, for first ascertain- ing the exact situation of the stone. If this body should be lodged at the lower part of the bladder, just behind the neck of the viscus, and be distinctly felt below the blades of the forceps, the operator is to open the instrument immediately over the stone, and, after depressing the nS'484 FIRST LINES OF THE blades a little, is to shut them, so as to grasp it. Cer- tainly, it is much more scientific to use the forceps, at first., merely to ascertain the position of the stone; for, when this is known, the operator is much more able to grasp the extraneous body, in a skilful manner, than if lie were to open the blades of the instrument immediately, without knowing where they ought next to be placed, or when shut. No man can duubt, that the injury, which the bladder frequently suffers, from reiterated and awkward movements of the forceps, is not au uncommon cause of such inflammation of this viscus, as is too apt to extend to the peritoneum, and occasion death. When the stone is found to be so large, that it cannot be extracted from the wound, without violence and lacera- tion, the surgeon may either break the stone wilh a strong pair of forceps, w'ith teeth constructed for (he purpose; or he may enlarge the wound with a probe-pointed curved bistoury, introduced under the guidance of the fore finger of the left hand., If the latter plan were very practicable, and sholiM seem likely to enable the surgeon to remove the stone with a due degree of ease, it seems preferable to breaking the stone, which is an exceedingly unpleasant circumstance, as it creates such a chance of calculous fragments remaining behind. If the operator, however, cannot safely extract the stone, by dilating the wound, he certainly ought to prefer breaking the extraneous body, to employing un- warrantable force in extracting it. When this has been done, and as many of the broken pieces have been taken out as the forceps can discover, the surgeon should introduce his finger, in order to feel whe- ther any fragments still remain behind. If they should do so, his best plan, provided they arc very small, is to inject lukewarm water, with moderate force into the wound, for the purpose of washing them out. The operator ought always to examine a stone, as soonPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 485 b ! as it is extracted : if its whole surfacebe rough, it is a pre- sumptive sign, that it is the only one ; if its outside should be smooth on one side, and rough on another, there may, very probably, be other stones. But, in every instance, the surgeon should introduce his fore finger, in order to ob- tain decisive information on this point ; tor, it would be unpardonable to put the patient to bed, while another stone remains in his bladder. Sometimes stones in the bladder cannot be grasped with the forceps, unless raised by the index and middle fingers of the left hand, introduced in the rectum. The majority of patients, who die in consequence of lithotomy, perish of peritoneal inflammation. Hence, on the least occurrence of tenderness over the abdomen, copi- ous venesection should be put in practice. At the same time, eight or ten leeches should be applied to the hypo- gastric region. The belly should be fomented, and the bowels kept open with the til. ricini. The feebleness of the pulse should not deter the practitioner from using the lan- cet ; this symptom is only fallacious ; and is attendant on all inflammation within the abdomen. Together with the above measures, the warm bath, blisters, and emollient clysters, are highly proper. I have seen several old subjects die of the irritation of a diseased, thickened state of the bladder, continuing after the stone had been extracted. They had not the acute symptoms, the inflammatory fever, the general tenderness, and tension of the abdomen, as in cases of peritoneum, they referred their uneasiness to the lower part of the pel- vis; and, instead of dying in the course of two or three days, as those usually do, who perish of peritoneal inflam- mation, they, for the most lingered, for two or three weeks after the operation. In these cases opiate clysters, and blistering the hypogastric region, are proper. In some instances of this kind, collections of matter form in the vicinity of the neck of the bladder.48G FIRST LINES OF THE The surgeons of the Westminster hospital have lately rc* vived the operation, practised by Frere Cosme, A com- mon staff is introduced into the bladder ; the first incision is made in the ordinary -way; the urethra is cut in the same place, and in the same manner; but instead of the gorget, the lithotome cache is introduced along the groove of the staff, into the bladder. The staff is now removed, and th^bistoury turned, in such a manner that its edge faces the left side of the bladder. The spring being now- compressed, the knife rises out of the groove, in which it yras concealed, and the instrument is then to be withdrawn by one uniform motion. The operation is finished, in the game manner, as when a gorget is used. I have never seen this operation performed ; but it seems to deserve encouragement on account of its simplicity, and the smoothness with which the parts must be divided, f am ready to grant, that the laceration of tfie bladder, fre, quently attendant on the hsual mpde of performing litho? tomy, is, for the most part, owing tp the smallness of the wound, in relation to the size of the stone ; but I am firm- ly of opinion, that the gorget itself sometimes tears the fibres, instead of cutting them in a smooth, even manner. ,-The danger of cutting the whole side of tfie bladder, or of wounding the pudendal artery, and rectum, does not seem to me sq great as Mr. Charles Bell w ould lead one to believe. With respect to wounding the whole side of the bladder, was such an occurrence ever known to occur to any modern operator ? the pudendal artery cannot be sq liable to be cut by a narrow bistoury, with which the sur? geon cuts, just as far as his prudence dictates, towards the rami of the is< hium, as when a broad cutting gorget is me- chanically introduced. As the bladder ought to be cut, in the same direction, as when the gorget is employed, I see no reason why the rectum should be more exposed to a wound in this than in the common operation. How- ever, | can readily conceive, how Frere Cosme, or anyPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 4a7 t f other surgeon of old times, might even contrive to wound the rectum. Mr. Charles Bell conceives, that the best method of per- forming lithotomy, may be accomplished with a staff grooved on the right side, a scalpel with a straight back, and the common lithotomy forceps. The surgeon is to make his incision under the arch of the pubis, by the side of the anus; he is to make the wound more deeply, towards the face of the prostate gland, cutting near the staff, but not cutting into it, and avoiding the rectum by pressing it down with the finger. Now, carrying the finger along the staff, the prostate gland is felt. The point of the knife is to be passed some- what obliquely into the urethra, and into the lateral groove of the staff, just before the prostate gland. The knife is pushed along the groove of the staff, until the urine flows. The forefinger follows the back of the knife, until this is in the bladder. The finger being passed into the bladder is to remain there, while, at the same time, the knife is withdrawn. Then the forceps is to be introduced, under the direction of the finger. CHAP. LIX, SPINA BIFIDA. SPINA bifida is a swelling situated on the spines of in- fants, commonly on the lumbar vertebras, occasionally on the dorsal, or cervical ones; and sometimes, though less frequently, on the os sacrum. A tumour of a similar nature is sometimes seen on the Jeead, IFIRST LINES OF THE 438 In spina bifida the swelling is soft, and gradually dimi- nislies, or even quite disappears on pressure; but the tu- mour returns immediately the pressure is removed. The fluctuation of a fluid is distinctly perceptible to the touch. The imcguments retain their natural colour and appear- ance. However, the children seem to experience pain, when the tumour is compressed, or when they are placed on their backs. The size of the swelling is very various. I have seen one, situated on the sacrum of a healthy looking child, about a year and a half old, which was larger than its head ;* in general, they seldom exceed the size of aq orange. The generality of children;, affected with spina bifida, are deficient in strength and vigour, and are subject to fre- quent diarrhoea. Some cannot retain their urine and fasces. A weakness and emaciation are particularly observable in the lower extremities, which, indeed, are sometimes almost paralytic. Though most children agree with this account, some are, in every respect, except the tumour, perfectly healthy, and well formed. The swelling cansists of a sac, filled with an aqueous fluid, and composed of the integuments, and of the mem- branous sheath, which lines the canal for the spinal mar- row. The lining of the spinal canal protrudes through a fissure in the vertebrae. This fissure is owing to an imper- fect formation of these bones, and is commonly found at their posterior part, where the spinous processes would otherwise be. The preternatural opening is sometimes con- fined to one bone, and then the swelling often has a small base. In many instances, several vertebras have not their ossification completed behind, so that the canal for the spi- nal marrow resembles an open furrow. The aperture has been known to extend through the body of the affected ver- * This case was shewn to me by Mr. Maul, of Newbury,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. tebra, and the finger could be passed quite through into the abdomen. The sac is commonly filled with a clear, transparent fluid ; but occasionally it is turbid, yellowish, and bloody. The portion of the spinal marrow, surrounded by the fluid, is generally softened, and almost like mucus. Children, afflicted with this disease, sometimes suffer, at the same time, from hydrocephalus. They seldom live longer than a year after birth. The tumour generally con- tinues to enlarge. Occasionally, it inflames and ulcerates, and then death very soon follows. Children are observed to live longest, when the swelling is remote from the head. The instances of persons attaining a middle age with this disorder are rare, and they have mostly had their lower ex- tremities in a paralytic, useless state. Experience proves, that puncturing the tumour, and endeavouring to discharge the fluid, cither at once, 01 gra- dually, is invariably followed by fatal consequences. Ty- ing the pedicles of such spinae bifidoe, as have narrow bases, is also productive of death. Diuretic and purgative medicines seem to be of little avail in the present cases; the latter only increase the weakness and diarrhoea, under which the constitution is very frequently already sinking. Pressure only repels the fluid out of the sac, into the spinal canal, and has no effect in causing the fluid to be absorbed. No known applica- tions have hitherto succeeded. Richter pr poses the trial of two caustic issues, applied at a little distance from the tumour. The completion of the ossification of the vertebrae is an object, which nature alone can possibly accomplish. There is not one instance recorded of spina bifida being cured. In general, the only good, which a surgeon can do, is to instruct the friends of the patient to keep the tumour out of the way of every thing, that has a tendency to make it inflame and ulcerate. All pressure should be avoided.FIRST LINES OF THE 493 The only topical applications, which seem io retard Ihe growth of the tumour, and avert inflammation and ulce- ration, are such as are of a spirituous, and gently astrin- gent nature. i CHAP. LX. DISEASED VERTEBRAE. THE disease, of which I next mean to treat, is an af- fection of the spine, attended with a total, or partial abo- lition ol tire power of using, and sometimes even of mov^ ing the lower limbs. To this distemper, as Mr. Pott remarks, children are the most subject; adults are by no means exempt from it; but it hardly ever affects persons after the age of forty,. In in- fants, the true cause of the paralytic disorder of the lower limbs is seldom discovered by parents, or nurses, who never imagine, that it is situated in the backbone. When the disease affects a child, who has been able to walk, the loss of the use of his legs is gradual, though not very slow. He at first complains of being very soon tired, and is unwilling to move about much ; and, very shortly afterwards, hefre? quently trips, and stumbles, although there be no impedi- ment in his way. Whenever he attempts to move briskly, he finds, that his legs involuntarily cross each other, by which he is frequently thrown down. Upon endeavouring to stand erect, even for a few minutes, his knees give way, and bend forward. To continue Mr. Pott’s accurate de- scription, when the distemper is a little further advanced, it will be found that he cannot, without much difficulty, and deliberation, direct either of his feet precisely to any exactPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 491 point; and very soon after this, both thighs and legs lose a great deal of their natural sensibility, and become per- fectly useless for all the purposes of loco-motion. In adults, Mr. Pott observed, that the progress of the disease was ra- ther quicker, than in children. The affection of the lower limbs is somewhat different from a common nervous palsy. The legs and thighs are rendered unfit for all the purposes of loco-motion, and do also lose much of their natural sensibility; but they have neither the flabby feel, which a truly paralytic limb has, nor that seeming looseness at the joints, nor that total inca- pacity of resistance, which allow's the latter to be twisted in almost all directions. On the contrary, the joints are often very stiff, and the feet frequently cannot be placed flatly on the ground, in consequence pf the toes pointing downward. The disease of the spine varies in situation, extent, and degree, being either in the neck, back, and sometimes, though very seldom, in the upper part of the loins; some- times comprehending only two vertebrae, sonic times three, or more. Some patients are rendered totally incapable of walking, at a very early periqd of the distemper : others can manage to move about with the help of crutches, or by grasping tjieir own thighs with their hands. When a weak infant is the subject, and the curvature, resulting from the morbid state of the spine, is in the verte- brae of the back, it is not unfrequently productive of de- formity, by rendering the back humped, and by altera- tions, which the position of the ribs and sternum under- goes, in consequence of the flexure and morbid state of the spine. The general health does not seem, at first, to be materially affected ; but when the affection of the spine has made much progress, many complaints come on, such as difficulty in yespiration, indigestion, pain, a sense of tightness in the*9? FIRST LINES OF THE stomach, obstinate constipations, purgings, involuntary discharge of urine, and faeces, &c. The paralytic affeclion of the legs is certainly owing to the particular statcin which the spinal marrow, surrounded by the diseased vertebrae, is placed. When the distemper has existed only a short time, the ligaments, connecting ths vertebrae, which form the curve, are somewhat thickened and relaxed, and the bodies of these bones affected with a change, similar to what I have described as taking plate in the heads of bones, in cases of white swellings. When the distemper has been of longer existence, the ligaments are more manifestly thickened, and the bones more obvi- ously altered, and even becoming carious. The quantity of elastic substance, between the bodies of the vertebra is much diminished, and, after death, in advanced eases, the bones are always found carious, while a quantity ofsanious fluid is lodged between them and the membrane, investing the spinal marrow. I am inclined to believe, that the corpora vertebrarum, how soever softened, diseased, or rendered ca- rious, they may be, are never found spread, and enlarged in their texture : at least, I have never seen them expanded in this way, though I have several times examined the parts after death. The curvature of the spine, attendant on the present dis- ease, is always from within outward, and is invariably pre- ceded, as well as the paralytic affection of the legs, by a distempered state of the ligaments and bones. TREATMENT. The only thing, from which relief is ever obtained in the present distressing affliction, is an issue, made on each side of the spinous processes of the affected vertebrae. The best mode of forming the issues is to rub the kali purum cum calce viva on the skin, until the part turns brown. To accomplish this object in a neat manner, it is as well to cover and defend the integuments by adhesive plaster,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. excepting the two longitudinal portions, about half an inch broad, which arc to be converted in'o eschars by the application of the caustic. The end of this substance is to be dipped in water, and treely rubbed on the situations of the intended issues. As soon as the shin has become quite brown, the caustic may be washed ofF with some wet tow, the adhesive plaster may be removed, and the part co- vered with a linseed poultice. As soon as the eschars are loose, and can be taken away without pain, the issues are to be filled with peas, or kidney beans. These arc to be covered with adhesive plaster, which will confine them in their situation. How- ever, as the hollows soon become filled up with granula- tions, unless considerable pressure be made, it is generally deemed necessary to bind a piece of pasteboard, or a com- press, containing a bit of sheet-lead, firmly on the situa- tion of the issues. The pressure, thus maintained, though creative of uneasiness, at first, will in the end save the pa- tient an immense deal of pain ; for, in consequence of its operation, the peas, or beans, will soon form as many little hollows in the cavity of the issue, as their own number, and into these the future peas may afterwards be placed, and retained, without the least uneasiness, provided the sur- geon give particular injunctions not to allow the bandage ever to be slack. The pressure saves the patient, in the end, a great deal of pain, which would otherwise be una- voidable, on account of the surgeon being necessitated to repress the rising granulations in the cavity of the issue, by sprinkling them with powdered cantharides, or tha pulv. ex cerug. ceris et sabin., or even rubbing them with the caustic. In most instances, however, it is now and then requisite to apply one of the above powders under- neath the beaus, or peas. In order to appty peas advan- tageously, they should be previously sofiened in warm wa- ter, and connected together, like beads, bv passing a thread through their centre. Then they should be allowed to be-FIRST LINES OF THE 494 come completely dry, when they are fit for immediate tise. There should always be a greater length of thread, than of peas, by which means, two little portions, at the eftd of the peas, may extend beyond each extremity of the issue, and be first attached there by a very small piece of adhesive plaster. This little contrivance will have great effect, in keeping the whole row of peas in their situation. When the issue is more than half an inch in breadth, two row3 of peas should be placed in it. The issues are to be kept open until the cure is complete, that is, until the patient perfectly recovers the use of his legs, or even for some time afterwards. Mr. Pott very properly notices, that it is prudent to heal only one of them first. In conjunction with the issue, bark, sea-air, and sea- bathing, are frequently proper. I am sorry, I cannot add, that mechanically supporting the spine seems to present any rational prospect of doing good. When the morbid affection of the corpora verte* brarum has advanced to a certain state, the adjoining sound bones, both above and below the seat of disease, become approximated to each other, and, at length, anchylosed. This salutary process, if influenced at all by mechanically supporting the spine, must obviously be retarded. From this account, we also see the reason, why the projection of the spinous processes, at least, in adult subjects, must al- ways remain. In children, however, a great diminution, and, I might add, an entire removal, of a certain degree of deformity, may take place, during the growth of the body. Every surgeon should peruse the excellent account of the present disease, published by Mr. Pott, to whom I am indebted for most of the above short description.495 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. * CHAP. LXI. AMPUTATION. AMPUTATION OP THE THIGH. TIIU thigh should be amputated as low as the disease will allow. The patient is to be placed on a firm table, with his back properly supported by pillows, and assist- ants, who are also to hold his hands, and keep him from moving too much during the operation. The ankle of the sound limb is to be fastened, by means of a garter, to the nearest leg of the table. The first thing is the application of the tourniquet. The pad of this instrument should be placed exactly over the femoral artery, in as high a situation, as can convenien'ly be done. When the thigh is to lie amputated very far up, it is better to let an assistant compress the femoral ar- tery in the groin by any commodious instrument, having a round, blunt end, adapted for making direct pressure on he vessel, without injuring the integuments. That the operator may not have the other thigh between himself and the one which he is about to amputate, he ought to stand on the outside of the limb to be removed. An assistant, firmly grasping the thigh with both hands, is to draw upward the skin and muscles, while the surgeon makes a circular incision, as quickly as possible, through the integuments, down to the muscles. The cellular sub- stance, connecting the skin, immediately above this wound, w ith the fascia is next to be divided all round tiie limb, till as much skin can be drawn back, as will afterwards, con- jointly with the muscles, cut in a mode about to lie de- scribed, cover the surface of the wouud with the utmost facility. >FIRST LINES OF THE 495 The ancient surgeons used to cut directly down to tire bone at once, aud the frequent consequence was, that the stump was a very conical, or sugar-loaf one, very unfit for bearing any degree of pressure, and, therefore, kept healed •with difficulty. The end of the bone, in fact, was very often seen protruding beyond the soft parts. Hence, the double incision, as it was termed, was eagerly adopted by surgical practitioners. In this method, the skin is cut, in the way already explained, and then the operator proceeds to the division of the muscles. But, notwithstanding the double incision, the protru- sion of the bone sometimes occurred. M. Louis, a surgeon, for whose memory every admirer of science ought to entertain the most profound veneration, was the first to discern the cause of this occurrence., and the method of preventing it. He observed, that the mus- cles of the thigh became retracted in an unequal manner, when divided. Those which are superficial, and extend along the limb, more or less obliquely, without, being attached to the bone, becoming retracted with greater force than others, which are deep, and, in some measure, parallel to the axis of the femur, and fixed to this bone throughout their whole length. The retraction begins at the moment of the operation, and, for some time after- wards, continues to increase. Hence, the effect should be promoted, and be as complete as possible, before the bone is sawn. With this view, M. Louis practised another kind of double incision ; by the first, he cut, at the same time, both the integuments, and the loose superficial mus- cles ; by the second, he divided those muscles, which are deep, and closely connected with the femur. On the first deep, circular, cut being completed, M. Louis used to re- move a band, which was round the limb above the track of the knife, in order to allow the divided muscles to be- come retracted without any impediment, and he then cut the deep muscles, on a level with the surface of those,4<j7 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. •which had been divided at first, and which were now in a retracted state. In this way, he could evidently saw the bone very high up, and the painful dissection of the skin from the muscles was avoided. I have always thought the reasoning of this eminent practitioner very strong, and his practice deserving of a more extensive trial, than I believe it has obtained in this country. However, my limits will not allow me to introduce, in this work, his very interest- ing observations on this subject: the reader must consult them himself, in the Mem. de l'Acad, de Chirurgie. Mr. Alanson’s mode of amputating is what still prevails in this country. The integuments being divided by a circular wound, the knife is to be applied to the inner edge of the vastus internus, and, at one stroke, an incision is to be made obliquely through the muscles, upward in respect to the limb, and down to the bone. In other words, cut in such a direction as to lay the bone bare, about two or three fingers breadth higher, than a perpendicular circular inci- sion would do. Now draw the knife towards you, so that its point may rest upon the bone, still observing to keep the instrument in the same oblique position; in order that the muscles may be divided all round the limb in that di- rection, by a proper turn of the kuife. During the per- formance of this movement, the point of the knife is to be kept in contact with the bone, round which it of course must revolve. I am happy to remark, that many excellent surgeons, whom I have seen operate, do not cut at once obliquely down to the bone, after the integuments have been sepa- rated ; but so far adopt the principles of M. Louis, as to divide the loose muscles first, and, lastly, those which are intimately attached to the bone, throughout their whole extent. This is certainly abetter mode of operating, than to follow precisely Mr. Alanson’s directions. However, I am obliged to state, that the attempt to divide the loose muscles first, and then the more fixed ones, is very apt to K. K4<>5 FIRST LINES OF TIIE make a surgeon cut the whole, or a greater part of the same muscle through more than once ; a fault in modern prac- tice, which, as far as my judgment extends, deserves repro- bation^ as much as any proceeding which can be instanced. To say how unnecessary it is to divide any muscle more than once, is as needless as to remind the reader of its doubling the agony of a very severe operation. Having cut completely down to the bone, a piece of linen, somewhat broader than the stump, should be torn at one end, in its middle part, to the extent of about eight, or ten iches. This is called a retractor, and is applied by placing the exposed part of the bone in the slit, and draw- ing the ends of the linen upward on eacli side of the stump. Thus the retractor will evidently keep every part of the surface of the wound out of the way of the saw. I have seen the saw. do so much mischief, in consequence of neg- lecting to use the retractor, that my conscience obliges me to censure such surgeons as are in the habit of employing the saw, without defending the soft parts by this simple con- trivance. I think no one can say, that the retractor can do harm ; and I know, that many, who have been with myself eye-witnesses of the mischief frequently done by the saw in amputations, are deeply impressed with an aver- sion to the neglect of this bandage. 1 have often seen the soft parts adroitly divided ; and I have, in these same in- stances, seen the operators directly afterwards lose all the praise, which every one was ready to bestow, by their li- terally sawing through one half ot the ends of the muscles, together with the bone. But, besides defending the sur- face of the stump from the teeth of the saw, the retractor will undoubtedly enable the operator to saw the bohe higher up, than he otherwise could do. Another proceeding, which seems to be fit for reproba- tion, is the practice of scraping up the periosteum with the knife, as far as the muscles will allow. I think this plan may sometimes be the cause of exfoliations, whichPRACTICE OF SURGERY. V happen after amputations. At all events, it is a superflu- ous, useless measure, as a sharp saw, such as ought to be employed, will never be impeded by so slender a mem- brane as the periosteum. All that the operator ought to do, is to take care to cut completely down to the bone, all round its circumference. Thus a circular division of the periosteum will be made, and, on this precise situation, the saw should be placed. If the bone should happen to break, before the sawing is finished, the sharp projecting spiculce, thus occasioned, must be removed by means of an instrument, called bone- nippers. After the removal of the limb,' the femoral artery is to be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and tied, wi.'hout in- cluding the accompanying branches of the anterior crural nerve in the ligature. None of the surrounding flesh ought to be tied, though the ligature should undoubtedly be placed round the artery, just where this vessel emerges from its lateral connexions. The other arteries are usually taken up with a tenaculum. After tying as many vessels as rccpiire it, one half of each ligature is lo be cut off near the surface of the stump. As Mr. Alanson judiciously directs, when the large ves- sels are tied, that the tourniquet should immediately be slackened, arid the wound well cleaned, to detect any ves- sel, that might otherwise lie concealed with its orifice blocked up by coagulated blood ; and, before the wound is dressed, its whole surface should be examined with the greatest accuracy. By this means, a pulsation may often be discerned, where no hemorrhage has previously appear- - ed, and a small clot of blood may be removed from the mouth of a considerable artery. The whole surface of the wound should always be well cleaned with a soft sponge, and warm water, as the lodg- ment of much coagulated blood would undoubtedly beun- iavourable to the speedy union of the wound.500 FIRST LINES OF THE The skin and muscles are now to be placed over the bone, in such a direction, that the wound shall appear only a line, across the face of the stump, with the angles at each side, from which points, the ligatures arc to be left out, as their vicinity to either angle directs. The skin is now commonly supported in this position, by long strips of adhesive plaster, applied from below upwards, across the face of the stump. Over these, and the ends of the li- gatures, it is best to place some pieces of lint, spread with the unguent, sperm, cet., to keep them from sticking, which becomes an exceedingly troublesome circumstance, when the dressings are to be removed. I am decidedly averse to the general plan of loading the stump with a large mass of plasters, pledgets, compresses, flannels, &c. I see no reason why the strips of adhesive plaster and a pledget of simple ointment should not suffice, when sup- ported by two cross bandages and a common linen roller, applied in a spiral way round the limb, from above down- ward. The first* turn of the roller, indeed, should go round the patient’s body. Two cross bandages are to be put over the end of the stump. I conceive, that the elastic woollen cap, commonly placed over all the bandages and dressings, if not put on with a great deal of care, has a tendency to push the skin backward from the extremity of the stump, and, as it must also heat the part very much, I think its employ- ment might very properly be discontinued. After the operation the stump should rost upon a pillow of very moderate thickness; for bending the thighbone too much causes a retraction of the flexor muscles. If possible, the dressings should never be removed be- fore the third day ; but, in general, it is quite soon enough to change them on the fourth. At the end of"five or six days, the surgeon may begin to try, in a very gentle manner, whether any of the ligatures are loose. However, he should not use the smallest force,PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 50* nor persist, if the trial should create pain. One would hardlj try, whether the ligature on the great artery is loose before the eighth or ninth day. AMPUTATION BELOW THE KNEE. In the thigh, we amputate as low as the nature of the case will allow us. In the leg, the common practice is al- ways to make the incision through the integuments suffi- ciently low, to enable the operator to saw the bones, about four inches below the lower part of the patella. This is necessary, in order not to deprive the stump of that power of motion, which arises from the flexor tendons of the leg continuing undivided. The tourniquet should be applied to the femoral artery, two thirds of the way down the thigh, just before the ves- sel perforates the tendon of the triceps muscle. This is a much more convenient situation than the ham. 1 he leg being properly held, the integuments should next be drawn upward by an assistant, while the surgeon, with one quick stroke of the knife, must divide the skin completely round the limb. Some recommend the operator to stand on the in- side of the leg, in order to be able to saw both bones at once. No reflections could ever make me perceive, that any real advantage ought strictly to be imputed to this plan. I know, that many think it diminishes the chance of the fibula being splintered, as this bone is completely divided rather before the tibia. But splintering the bones arises from the assistant, who holds the leg, depressing the ^imb too much; it would be difficult to explain, why the two bones should not be splintered, when a certain thick- ness of them has been sawn through, if the leg were too forcibly depressed. Having made a circular division of the integuments, the next object is to preserve skin enough to cover the front of the tibia and part of the stump, corresponding to the situa- tion of the tibialis anlicus, extensor longus pollici<} andFIRST LINES OF THE ' 502 other muscles, between the tibia and fibula, including those covering the latter bone. Throughout this extent there are no bulky muscles, which can be made very serviceable in co- vering the end of the stump, and the operator must conse- quently have sufficient skin in tins situation, by dissecting it irom the parts beneath, and turningit backward. On the posterior part of the leg, on the contrary, the skin should never be detached from the large Q'ustrocnc- mins muscle, which, with the soleus, will here form a suffi- cient mass for covering the stump. Hence, as soon as the skin has been separated in front, and on the outside of the leg, the surgeon is to place the edge of the knife in the in- Cisiori of the integuments, and cut directly through the muscles of the calf, from the inside of the tibia, quite to the fibula. Then the flap, formed by the calf of the leg, is to beheld back by tlie assistant, while the surgeon completes the division of the rest of the muscles, together w ith the interosseous ligament, by means of the catling, a kind of long, narrow, double-edged knife. In amputating below the knee, very particular care must be taken to cut every fasciculus of muscular fibres, before the saw is used. Every part being divided, except the bones, the soft parts are next to be protected from the saw, b> a linen retractor, made with three tails, one of which is to be drawn through the space, between the tibia and fibula. In the leg, there are only three principal arteries, re- quiring a ligature, viz. the anterior and posterior tibial, and the peroneal arteries. • \ • AMPUTATION OF THE A JIM, As M. Sabatier remarks, the structure of the arm bears a great analogy to that of the thigh. There is only one bone, round which the muscles are arranged, the deep ones being adherent to the os brachii, while the outer ones ex- tend along the limb, without being attached to this bpne.503 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. The first are the brocMalis iniernus, and the two short heads of the triceps; the others are, the j|>ng portion o the latter muscle, and the biceps. Hence, amputation, m this situation, is performed, in a very similar manner, .0 the same operation on the thigh, unless it be necessary o remove the limb above the insertion of the deltoid muscle. The patient may either sit on a chair, or he near the edge of a bed, and an assistant is to hold the arm in a horizontal position, if the state of the limb will allow it. The pad of the tourniquet is to be applied to the brachial artery, as high as convenient. The assistant is then to draw up the integuments, while the surgeon makes the first circular in- cision. In this operation, the skin need only be detached from the muscles to a very trivial extent, as there is no fear of not having sufficient flesh and integuments to co\er the bone. When the muscles, in front of the arm, are divided, the elbow,should, if possible, be bent by the assistant, w ho holds the arm, and, if this joint were quite moveable, the limb might be placed in a straight posture, when the divi- sion of the triceps is to be effected. It is best to divide the biceps first, and, after the retraction of this loose muscle, to cut the brachialis interims, which is fixed to the bone, by an incision sloping obliquely upward. However, the triceps may be cut through at once, by one sweep of the knife, with its edge inclined obliquely upward. The rest of the proceedings does not require de- scription, after the account already given of what is neces- sary in amputating the thigh. When it becomes indispensable to amputate the arm at a very high situation, there is no room for the application of the tourniquet. In this instance, the artery is <0 be firmly compressed, as it passes over the first rib, by an as- sistant, who can most effectually accomplish this im- portant object, by pressing a pad on the vessel with the handle of such an instrument as a key of suitable size. This may be done from above the clavicle, or, perhaps, IFIRST LINES £F THE 5o4 equally well, at the interspace, between the margins of the pectoral, and deltoid muscles, below this bone. The great particularity, in operating very high, is raising the deltoid muscle, alter first making an incision corresponding to its margin in shape and situation. Then the muscle is to be detached from the bone beneath, so as to form a flap, which is to be turned up. The operation is then to be finished in the ordinary manner.- » 1 ... amputation of tiie forearm. The forearm is to be amputated as low as the case will allow. The tourniquet is to be applied, a little above the condyles of the humerus, with its pad on the brachial ar- tery, at the inner edge of the biceps muscle. While one assistant holds the hand, another is to take hold of the forearm, above the place where the first circular wound is to be made. Thus, in conjunction with the person, who lias charge of the hand, he will fix the limb in a proper manner, and, at the same time, can draw up the integu- ments. The skin is to be detached from the fascia, a little Way upward, when the amputating knife has been carried round the limb. The muscles are then to be divided with the common knife, as long as this will do what is to be done with convenience, and the catling is afterwards to be employed for completing the division of the soft parts, si- tuated between the radius and ulna. The retractor is to be ' ( ' • applied, and the bones sawn, with the hand in the state of pronation. There are, in general, only four arteries to be tied, viz. the radial, ulnar, and two interosseous ones. AMPUTATION AT TIIE SHOULDER JOINT. I do not deem it necessary, or even proper, in this intros ductory work, to occupy the reader’s time, and attention, With a detail of every mode of doing this operation, pro- posed, or practised, since the time of Le Dran. My in-*PRACTICE OF SLTlGERY. 505 tention is only to mention the method, which, I believe, the generality of the best modern surgeons prefer. The loss of blood is to be prevented, by compressing the ax- illary artery, in the way mentioned in the account of the am- putation of the arm in a high situation. With a large com- mon bistoury, a semicircular incision is to be made, with its convexity downward, across the integuments covering the deltoid muscle, about four inches below7 the acromion.* The skin is not to be detached; but the surgeon is to proceed im- mediately to raise the muscle from the bone, quite up to the joint. If the circumflex arteries should bleed much, they are now to be tied, before the operator proceeds further. Then the surgeon should cut the tendons passing over the joint, and, also, the capsular ligament, so as to be enabled to dislocate the head of the bone fromdhe glenoid cavity of the scapula. Having proceeded thus far, he is to take an amputating knife, and, with one stroke, divide the skin and other parts underneath the joint so as to complete the operation. The mouth of the axillary artery should be instantly taken hold of with the fingers, and tied as soon as possible. The flap of the deltoid muscle is next to be laid down, and its edge will then meet the margin of the wound below. v - / V ? ■ *.' ' ‘ . AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERSLAND TOES. The removal of a toe, or finger, though easy of accom- plishment to a skilful surgeon, may make another one, w ho is not aware of the proper method of operating, appear ex- ceedingly awkward. A small semilunar incision is to be made on the back of the finger, or toe, to be amputated. This wound must extend across the part, and its greatest » ... — — ■ — — * The horns of the semicircle, if I may use the expression, are to extend upward along the anterior and posterior margin of the.deltoid muscle./ -5-06 FIRST LINES OF THE Convexity be about half an inch in front of (he joint, into ■which the surgeon intends to cut. The little flap is next to be raised, and reflected. Next the skin, in front of the fin- ger, and immediately over the joint, is to be divided, so that this second cut must extend across the finger, or toe, and meet the two ends of the first semilunar incision. The joint is now to be bent, and the capsular ligament opened. If the surgeon were to attempt to cut into the joint, with the finger, or toe, in a straight position, he might try a con- siderabletime before be would succeed. Things being ac- complished so far, the next object is to divide one of (he lateral ligaments, which, after an opening is made into the capsular ligament may be most easily effected. This al- lows the head of the bone to be dislocated, and the sur- geon has nothing more to do, than to cut such other parts, as still attach the part, about to be removed, to the rest of the limb. When the arteries'bleed much, they must be tied ; but, it frequently happens, that the hemorrhage will stop without a ligature, as soon as the flap is brought over the end of the stump, and the adhesive plaster has brought the edges of the wound accurately together. When it is necessary to remove the metatarsal bone of ' the great, or little, toe, it. is better to saw off the diseased portion, than to cut into the joints of the tarsus. Suffi- cient skin should be saved for covering the wound, and, wdien the saw is used, the adjoining soft parts must be dc.- fended from injury by a piece of pasteboard, placed be- tween them and the teeth of the instrument. When the thumb is to be amputated, a flap is, also, to be preserved for covering the end of the stump.507 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. CHAP. LXII. PARONYCHIA, OR WHITLOW. A WHITLOW is a very painful, inflammatory swell- ing, about the extremity of the finger, or at the root, or sides of the nail, and it is very prone to suppurate. Au- thors describe different sorts of whitlows. Only four merit distinction, and these chiefly differ from one another merely in regard to the depth of the situation, which they oc- cupy. The first is situated under the cuticle, and begins at the corner of the nail, in the form of a little tumour, which spreads all round. When matter is collected, it may be discharged, by cutting the cuticle with a pair of scis- sars; a thing, which may be accomplished without the slightest pain. Sometimes, the natural connexions of the root of the nail are destroyed, and this part separates to make way for a new nail, which nature produces. In the second species, an unpleasant sensation of heat is experienced at the extremity of the finger, for some days; the part becomes gradually more tender and painful; it swells, but the skin is not discoloured ; and, if the inflam- mation should not end in resolution, a thin matter collects between the skin and subjacent parts. On this fluid being evacuated by an incision, immediate relief is generally ob- tained. The third kind of whitlow, is .situated in the theca of the flexor tendons of the fingers. When the inflammation continues beyond a certain period, the suppuration, some- times, becomes palpable about the joints, and even in the hand, by a fluctuation, which is not distinguishable overSOS FIRST LINES OF THE : / i the phalanges, on account of the dense firm structure of the tendinous sheath. The fourth kind of whitlow extends to the periosteum and bone. The complaint is attended with an acute, deep-seated pain, and a swelling, which is more confined to the phalanx affected, than the tumefaction accompany- ing other whitlows. On an incision being made to dis- charge the fluid, this is found lodged beneath the periosr team, while the bone is, also, for the most part, discovered to be rough and carious. When whitlows are very severe, the throbbing of the arteries extends, for a considerable distance, up the arm, and the febrile symptoms are considerable. Whitlows often originate from external causes, such as jaruises, pricks, &c. but, in general, we find, that the com- plaint occurs, without being preceded by any assignable cause whatever. TREATMENT. Topical applications of two very opposite classes have been recommended, viz. fomentations, poultices, and all sorts of emollient remedies; and vinegar, spirits, and astringent applications in general. Excepting in the first case of whitlow, the formation of matter seems to be productive of no relief, and experience evinces, that there is no advantage in promoting the event. It is even certain, that the pain is increased by the accu- mulation of fluid. When matter is already collected, no benefit whatever is ever derived from emollients, espe- cially when the whitlow is deep, for then the fluid never partakes of (be nature of pus. Hence, the best practice consists in preventing a collection of fluid from taking place, bjr applying leeches and topical astringents to the part, and using antiphlogistic means. In very violent cases, in which the swelling extends as far as the arm, and.PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 569 the fever is considerable, venesection should be practised, and opium exhibited. Brandy, spirit of wine, or vinegar, are as good topical applications as can be mentioned. Let it be remembered, however, that such treatment is only proper for preventing matter from accumulating, and that, when fluid is already collected, the indication is to make an immediate opening for its discharge. The inci- sion should always be sufficiently large to allow the matter to escape in a ready manner. The surgeon should not wait for whitlows to point; the matter will spread very extensively within the tendinous thecas, and soon induce a carious affection of the bones, if the practitioner should im- prudently waft for a pointing to occur. On an opening being made into the collection of fluid, a director should be introduced, and the wound enlarged by cutting upon this instrument. A simple pledget will be a better dress- ing than poultices. When there is only one phalanx in a carious state, and when this one bone is much diseased, some practitioners deem it more advisable to enlarge the wound sufficiently to allow the part to be dissected out, than to wait for the completion of tedious exfoliations. CHAP, LXIII. VENESECTION; OCCASIONAL ILL-CONSE- QUENCES OF THIS OPERATION. IN whatever part of the body venesection is to be prac- tised, it is necessary to make pressure on the vein, betwixt the place, where the puncture is to be made, and the heart.510 FIRST LIKES OF THE Thus the return of blood through the vessel is prevented, consequently, it swells, becomes conspicuous, ar.d bleeds freely, which it would not do, if the blood could readily pass on towards the heart. In bleeding in the arm, a fillet, or bandage, is to be tied, with moderate tightness, round the arm, a little above the elbow. The design of doing this, is to intercept the pas- sage of the blood through all the superficial veins, without obstructing the circulation through the artery, as, in this circumstance, the veins evidently could not be rendered turgid. The surgeon, before putting a ligature round the arm, should always feel where (he pulsation of the artery is si- tuated, and, if equally convenient, he should not open the vein immediately over this part. It is also proper to exa- mine where a pulsation is situated, on account of the occa- sional varieties in the distribution of the arteries of the arm. The ulnar artery is sometimes given off from the brachial high up, and, in this case, it frequently proceeds superficially over the muscles, arising from the internal condyle, instead of diving under them, in the ordinary manner. , , In general, it is best to select a vein, which rolls least under the skin. Such a vessel, though sometimes not so superficial as another, may commonly be more easily open- ed, than the latter. However, the operator is always to fix the vein, as much as he can, by placing the thumb of his left hand a little below the place, where he intends to intro- duce the lancet. More depends on the mode of using this instrument, than on its shape. It should be pushed into the vein in an ob- lique direction, and, when its point is a little within the cavity of the vessel, it is not to be introduced turther, but the opening is to be rendered sufficiently large by carrying the front edge of the lancet obliquely forward and upward, by which movement, it is also brought out of the partPRACTICE OF SURGERY. . 5li again. In cases of herniae, it is ofien a great desideratum to make a free opening, in order that the sudden evacua- tion of blood may 'make the patient faint. The puncture being made, the patient is to support his arm, in a conve- nient position for allowing the blood to flow into a basin, by taking hold of a stick, which he may turn round and round in his hand, to put the muscles in action, and make the blood flow out in a fraer current. Sometimes, however, it escapes so readily, that there is no occasion to move the muscles of the arm. TV'hen the patient is so circum- stanced, that lie cannot take hold of a stick, the surgeon is to support the arm in a convenient posture; and, if the vein should not bleed in a free manner, he is to desire the patient to take hold of any small body, and move it about in his hand, in order to put the muscles of the forearm into action. 'fhe due quantity of blood having been taken away, the ligature is to be loosened, and removed. The current of blood now generally ceases, and always does so, when the surgeon places the thumb of his left band just below* the orifice. The arm in this state is to be washed with a sponge, and dried. The edges of the wound are to 11c placed in contact, and kept so by a small compress of lint, which is to be bound on the part, by applying the bleeding fillet round the arm, in the form of a figure of eight. The band- age is to meet and cross in front, exactly over the dossil of lint. When the external jugular vein is opened, the surgeon generally makes the necessary pressure with his thumb. The orifice should be made in the direction of the fibres of the platysma my aides muscle, and (lie vein is not so apt to glide out ol the way, when the surgeon opens the vessel, just where it lies over some part of the sterno-cleidd-jnas- toldens. The temporal artery, and its branches, are the only ves- sels in which surgeons perform artcriotomy. When the512 v FIRST LINES OF THE branch seems to be superficial, it may be punctured at once; but, in other cases, it is best to make first aSinall in- cision through the integuments. The bleeding may al- ways be stopped, after the due quantity of blood has been taken away, by means of a roller and compress. Some surgeons recommend cutting the vessel completely across, in order to allow it to'become retracted, when there is much hemorrhage after the operation. OCCASIONAL ILL CONSEQUENCES OF BLEEDING IN THE ARM. Ecchjjmosis. The most common troublesome occurrence, after bleed- pig, as far as my observation extends, is a swelling,, which originates from blood insinuating itself, from the orifice of the vein, into the adjacent cellular substance. Sometimes, this ecchj/mosis, as it is technically named, forms a tumour as large as, or even larger, than a walnut. The blood is mostly absorbed, in the course of a week, or ten days; and this desirable event should be promoted by applying lo- tions of vinegar, sal ammoniac, &c. In some instances, the tumour suppurates, and it becomes necessary to apply poultices. INFLAMMATION OF THE INTEGUMENTS, AND CELLULAR SUBSTANCE. This very often occurs, when the patient neglects to keep his arm quietly in a sling, for a day, or two, after the ope- ration. The improper motion of the limb makes the edges of the w ound rub against each other, and they necessarily inflame, and even suppurate. The inflammation and sup- puration are apt to be communicated to the surrounding skin and cellular substance, for a greater, or less extent. This case requires the same treatment, as other phleg- monous tumours.513 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. In persons, who lead intemperate lives, the inflamma- tion is very often of the erysipelatous kind. INFLAMMATION OF TIIE ABSORBENTS. These vessels, we know, are susceptible of inflammation, as well as other parts. We frequently feel them extending from a part, iu which there is some species of local irrita- tion, like firm cords, of much greater thickness, than one can suppose would arise merely from the swollen coat's of these delicate vessels. The fact is, the adjoining cellular substance is also affected, and contributes to the swelling. The inflamed absorbents may sometimes be seen running from the wound, in the form of reddish streaks; and if. this appearance should extend, both towards the thoracic duct, and also in a direction from it, we may conclude, that the affection is in consequence of irritation, and not of absorption. After bleeding, they are found occasion- ally running upward to a glandular swelling, situated about the middle of the arm, in the course of the large vessels, and to another glandular tumour, situated over the muscles of the forearm arising from the internal condyle. The ' treatment of this sort of case is entirely antiphlogistic. INFLAMMATION OF THE VEIN. Another occasional ill consequence of venesection is an inflammation of the vein. This affection may differ in degree and extent, as well as in its progress. One degree of inflammation may only occasion a slight thickening of the venal tube, and an adhesion of its sides ; a more Vio- lent degree may produce abscesses, the matter of which may sometimes become blended with the circulating; fluids, and produce dangerous consequences; or it may be cir- cumscribed by the thickening and adhesion of the sur- rounding parts, and, like a common abscess, make its way to the surface. A good deal of sympathetic fever is likely to attend an extensive inflammation of the vein; and this L L514 FIRST LINES OF THE affection, it is thought, may possibly become continued along the cuticular coat of the vessel to (he heart. If, however, an adhesion of the sides of the vein to each other should be occasioned, a little way from the wound, the expansion of the inflammation will be stopped at the place, where the vessel has been rendered impervious. In one instance, Mr. Hunter employed compression, and he imagined, that he thus limited the extent of the inflamma- tion by producing an adhesion of the above kind. The affccti,on sometimes spreads in the direction from the heart. The treatment should consist in attempting to diminish the inflammation by the usual antiphlogistic means, and, in applying a compress at some distance from the punc- ture, in order to produce an adhesion of the sides of the vein, and thus remove the danger, which would result from the spreading of the inflammation, along the lining of the vessel, towards the heart. INFLAMMATION OF THE FASCIA OF TIIE FOREARM. This is an event, which sometimes follows venesection. The arm cannot be moved, without pain and difficulty. The whole forearm is tender, when compressed, though the integuments are scarcely at all affected. There is ge- nerally a great deal of uneasiness in the axilla, and the af- fection is attended with sympathetic fever. After sup- puration has occurred, the matter does not readily point. The treatment should be antiphlogistic,’in every sense of the word. Leeches should be applied ; the pat ient purg- ed ; the arm covered with the saturnine lotion ; and kept quietly in a sling. W hen matter is known to have col- lected, an early depending opening ought to be made, and the arm should be gently compressed with a roller. Mr. Abernathy, in his ingenious essay oa this subject, seems to be of opinion, that the contracted slate of the for .arm, somet imes following inflammation of the fascia.' i A PRACTICE OF SURGERY. might be cured by dividing- the portion of fascia, sent off, at the bend ot the elbow, from the tendon of the biceps muscle. ILL CONSEQUENCES OF A WOUND OF A NERVE. The above gentleman informs us, that Mr. Pott, in his lectures, used to mention cases, in which patients had suf- fered distracting pain, followed by convulsions, and other 0 symptoms, which could only be ascribed to nervous irrita- tion. Mr. Abcrnethy lias treated this subject with much discrimination ; lie explains what nerves are exposed to injury; what are the effects likely to be produced by such an accident; and what means are most likely to afford relief. The two cutaneous nerves are most in the way of the lancet. Most frequently all their branches pass beneath the veins at the bend of the arm ; but sometimes many small filaments are detached from these branches, and pro- ceed over the vessels. The above eminent surgeon re- marks, that when a nerve is irritated, at any part, between its 01 igin and termination, a sensation is felt, as it some injury were done to the parts, which it supplies. Hence, when the cutaneous nerves are injured, the integuments of the forearm would seem to suffer pain. It seems highly probable, that some symptom conse- quent to venesection, in certain instances, have been un- foundedly imputed to the irritation of a nerve, arising fiom its partial division. As Mr. Abcrnethy observes, in the many operations which are performed, and in wounds of daily occurrence, it would be strange, if a partial di- vision of a nerve should not happen; yet no peculiar symptoms usually ensue. The practice of completing the division of the nerve, supposed to be injured, is very questionable, in regard to the utility which it presents. However, if the surgeon should think the plan justifiable, a transverse incision may i, l2FIRST LINES OF THE 5.6 be made above (lie orifice of the vein. This wound, as Mr. Abernethy remarks, need not be extensive, for the in- jured nerve must lie within the limits of the original ori- fice, and there is no occasion for it to descend more deeply than the fascia, as all the filaments of the cutaneous nerves lie above this part. I cannot do better, in concluding this subject, than re- fer the reader to Mr. Abcrnethy’s ingenious essay. The consideration of the several ill consequences, occa- sionally resulting from phlebotomy, is closely connected with the subject of all other wounds, which are followed by extraordinary symptoms. CHAP. LXIV. t PARTICULAR FRACTURES. FRACTURE OF THE OSSA NASI. THE lower portion of these bones is most subject to be broken by external violence. The two ossa nasi are not always broken together; sometimes one is fractured all across, while the other, without having suffered any solu- tion of continuity, is either elevated or depressed, these cases are often attended w ith a fracture of the perpendicu- lar lamella of the os ethmoides, which process, in this cir- cumstance, always becomes distorted to one side, and may be easily moved with the little finger, or a probe. Such accidents are commonly accompanied by inflammation oi the pituitary membrane, swelling of the whole nose and face, ophthalmy, a great deal of hemorrhage from the nos- trils, obstructed respiration, nay, the blow, which has517 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. broken the ossa'nasi, may also have produced a concus- sion of the brain ; an extravasation of blood within the cranium ; or pressure on the brain, from the ciista gclli be- ing actually driven inward. Unless the tumefaction be very considerable, the diag- nosis of a fracture of the ossa nasi is too obvious to need any detail. TREATMENT. The displaced portions of bone are to be raised, or de- pressed, to their proper level, by introducing a probe, rolled round with lint, to the upper part of the nostril, and moving the pieces of bone into their proper position, by means of the conjoint operation of the probe on the inside, and of the fingers on the outside, of the fracture. It the perpendicular process of the os ethmoides should be beaten to one side, it is to be replaced, as well as circumstances will allow, with the aid of a probe, if there should be reason to conjecture, that die crista galli is driven inward, and compresses the brain, the surgeon, after elevating the bony arch formed by the ossa nasi, should gently endea- vour to draw down the perpendicular lamella of the eth- moid bone. The ossa nasi, when replaced, are not very liable to be drawn out of their proper situation by the action of mus- cles : however, if the broken pieces should have a propen- sity to fall inward, they must be supported by dossils of lint, smeared with any softeniug oiutn>ent, and introduced under the fracilire. Most writers reconene d tubes, of a proper shape, to be placed in the nostrils, i-i order to sup- port the broken portions ofbone ; but, i believe, that te>v modern practical surgeons would think these instruments necessary. FRACTURE OF. THE LOWER JAW BONE. Thisboue is liable to be broken, either in its body, orFIRST LINES OF THE 513 rami; either on one side or both ; it may also be fractured near its symphysis ; and the injuries may, in some in- stances, be only mere solutions of continuity ; while, in others, they may be comminuted fractures, that is, cases in •which the bone is broken into several pieces. Fractures of the lower jaw are usually not at all displaced, when these injuries occur near the angle of the bone ; for then the pterygoid, temporal, and masseter, muscles, retaining the posterior part, the digastric, and other musclps, cannot dra w downward the body of the bone. A fracture of the lower jaw may be detected by intro- ducing' a linger into the mouth, ami pressing on the front teeth of tiie side on which the fracture is supposed to be, while, at the same time, the fingers of the other hand are applied to the basis of the hone, near the angle. On mak- ing alternate pressure in each of the above situations, the bone may be felt to move, or even a crepitus may be distin- guished When the fracture is displaced the diagnosis is still more easy. In tins case the body of the bone is drawn do .ward Irom the ranus ; the mouth is more or less open, and drawn to one side, in such a manner, that the commissure ol the lips, is much lower on the side where the fracture is, than ou the other ; while the front tee h are much below the level of the back ones. When one end of the fracture projects forward, and passes over the other, the mouth is more disfigured On the side, towards the injury; it forms a projection forward, and the teeth are not arranged in a regular, semicircular manner. TREATMENT. When tjie fracture is not displaced, the surgeon need only adapt some pasteboard, wet and softened in vinegar, to the outside of the jaw, both along its side, and under its basis. Over this wet pasteboard, a bandage with four tails is to be applied, the centre being placed on the pa- tient's chili, the two posterior tails pinned to the front part519 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. of a night cap, and the two anterior ones attached to a part of the same cap, more backward. When the pasteboard becomes dry, it forms the most convenient thing imagin- able for incasing, and supporting the fracture. A piece of soap plaster may now be applied to the skm underneath. When the anterior part of the bone is lower than the back portion, the index finger is to be introduced to the base of the coronoid process, which is to-be gradually pushed backward, while the index and middle fingers of the other hand are to be applied to the front teeth, and the thumb to the basis of the anterior part of the jaw. At the same moment, that the coronoid process is pushed back- ward, the front portion of the bone is to be raised. W hen oneeinl'of the fracture is situated over the other, the two parts of the bone are to be pushed in opposite directions, and, on this being skilfully done, the slightest pressure on the extremities of the fracture will suffice for placing them in contact. When any teeth are driven out of their sockets, they should be immediately introduced again, and, if necessary, tied to the adjoining teeth, by means of a piece of Catgut, or gold wire. However, when the displaced tooth belongs to the very situation, at which (he fracture has occurred, it is generally thought most advisable to remove it alto- gether. The extremities of the fracture having been placed in even contact, the jaw is to be incased in pasteboard, and the four-tailed bandage applied. It will also be necessary to counteract the action of muscles, between the lower ja w and os hyoides, by supporting the front portion of the bone with compresses placed under the bandage. The artery, running in the cannlis mentalis, is often ruptured in these cases, and the hemorrhage is very copi- ous : however, I have never seen a case, in which the bleeding did not cease, on the fractured ends of the bone being placed in a state of apposition.FIRST LINES OF THE 520 It is scarcely necessary to observe, that the patient must avoid talking, chewing, or moving the jaw in anyway whatsoever. His food should be so soft, as not to require mastication, and it ought, to be put into his mouth with a small tea-spoon. In these cases, I am of opinion, that it would be very proper to convey all nourishment into the stomach through a hollow bougie,, passed down the oeso- phagus. This.would certainly be preferable to the injection of nourishment, in the form of clysters, as advised in the best surgical books. FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. The transverse situation, and the natural slenderness of this bone, render it very liable to be broken, either at its middle, its sternal, or its scapular extremity. Fractures of the clavicle are either transverse, or oblique. The diag- nosisof the latter cases is most conspicuous, and the ends of the bone, thus fractured, must almost necessarily be dis- placed ; for, the scapular portion is drawn downward by the weight of the arm, and the action of the deltoid mus- cle, while it is, also, inclined inward by the action of the - pectoralis minor, and by the arm approaching the breast. The sternal portion of the clavicle, in the mean time, is not at all altered, in regard to its position. As the bone is hardly covered by any muscles, its fractures are very ob- vious to the eye and touch. Gently moving the shoulder and os brachii renders such injuiries still more manifest. No bad symptoms commonly attend fractures of the clavicle, unless emphysema should arise from the lungs being wounded by a spicula of bone, or the subjacent vessels should be injured, or compressed, by the ends of the. broken part. Somet imes, an acute extremity of the frac- ture makes its way through the integuments, and, gene- rally, cannot be reduced, without a dilatation of the wound. In older to reduce the scapular end of the bone into aPRACTICE OF SURGERY. proper position, with regard to the sternal portion, which is never in the least displaced, an assistant is to draw the patient’s shoulders backward, while another assistant raises the arm, so as both to relax the deltoid muscle, and take off the aveight of the limb. Then the surgeon should place the fracture in as even a position as he is able ; this being done, a piece of soap plaster is to be applied to the part; a figure of eight bandage employed to keep the shoulder backward ; and the elbow and forearm kept well supported in a sling. From the account already given of the manner in which a fracture of the clavicle is displaced, it must be sufficiently evident, that compresses, placed on the situation of the injury, cannot possibly do good, and are very likely to do harm, by pressing tbe scapular end of the fracture downward. Soft pads should be placed under tbe margins of tbe ftxillce, to keep them from being chafed, or otherwise irri- tated by the pressure of the figure of eight bandage. In troublesome cases, it would be proper to keep the arm raised from the side by a suitable pillow, as well as to elevate the shoulder sufficiently to bring the acromion on the side of the injury, as high as the corresponding part of the scapula on the opposite shoulder. In such instances, one would also prefer keeping the shoulder backward, by means of a mechanical apparatus with leather straps. 1 hough I have discouraged the use of compresses, ap- plied above the fracture, it is to be observed, that a skilful surgeon might undoubtedly find them useful in difficult cases, were he to place them judiciously just under the situation of the injury, instead of above it. FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. The greatest part of the scapula, being covered with a good deal of flesh, is not very easily fractured. However, this bone is every now and then broken, either at the body, spine, acromion, coracoid process, neck, glenoid cavity,£22 FIRST LINES OF THE or at its superior, or inferior angle. Fractures, situated in the body, or spine of the scapula, cannot be much dis- placed, and are, consequently, most easily cure !. But when other parts of ihe bone, especially its neck, are broken, the fracture becomes displaced, both by the action of muscles, and by the weight of the arm. When the body, or spine, of the scapula is fractured, it is unnecessary to do any thing more, than apply a piece of soap plaster to the situation of the injury, together with a spica bandage, and keep the arm of that side perfectly quiet in a sling. In the treatment of fractures of the acro- mion, or of the coracoid process, it is indispensably requi- site to place the arm in such a position as shall relax the muscles, which are attached to those parts, and cause the fractures to be displaced, ijence, in the first instance, the deltoid muscle is to be kept in a relaxed state by elevating the arm, and maintaining it in this posture by pillows, placed betecn it and the thorax. A piece of soap plaster, a compress, and the spica bandage are to be applied, and the limb kept completely quiet. When the coracoid process is fractured, the muscles connected with it are to be relax- ed, by keeping the os brack 'd advanced forward toward the sternum, bending the elbow and turning the band supine. Thelimb is to be kept in this position by a sling, aided by a roller, if necessary. A piece of soap plaster, a compress, and a spica bandage, will also be necessary. When the neck of the scapula is broken, (lie glenoid cavity, and os brack'd fall downward, a crepitus is usually felt on raising the limb, and this descends again, immediately it is left unsupported. The evident indications arc, to keep the elbow and whole arm properly elevated in a sling, and, to forbid all exercise of the limb. A piece of soap plaster; a compress, and a spica bandage, may be applied to the shoulder. The chief dependance must be on the assist* aqce of the sling, in maintaining the arm quiet, and thede*PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 52J tached portion af the neck of he scapula, as high as the part, from which it is separated. FRACTURES OF THE STERNUM. These, when mere solutions of continuity, only require general treatment : viz. a piece of soap plaster ; a roller round the body ; quietude and antiphlogistic means, espe- cially bleeding. However, when a fracture of the sternum is attended with a depression of a portion of (lie bone, the urgent symp- toms, tlius produced, often require a prompt elevation of the part beaten inward. For (his purpose, an incision must generally be made in the integuments covering the bone, and, if the depressed portion of the fracture cannot be raised, by means of an elevator, it must be removed, ei'her with a trephine, or one of Mr. Hey’s saws, according to the same directions, as are «aven in the chapter on injuries of the head. Copious bleeding will be proper after such an operation. Fractures of the sternum are frequently attended with a train of very alarming symptoms ; great pain in the chest, oppressed respiration, a violent cough, palpitations of the heart, extravasation of blood in the chest, and danger of su(localion. Inflammation of the pleura, pericardium, lungs, and heart itself; suppuration in the anterior me- diastinum ; caries ot the bone, and fistulous openings, may follow these injuries. FRACTURES OF TIIE RIBS. I he first rib cannot very easily be broken, on account of its guarded situation, beneath the clavicle ; the lower false ribs are seldom fractured, because their moveable dis- position makes them elude the eftect of external violence. When the force is applied by a broad surface, more ribs than one are usually fractured. The injury is most com- monly situated near the greatest convexity of the bone. AFIRST LINES OF THE 524 fracture, which is not displaced, is very difficult fo defect, and, no doubt, is very frequently never discovered. The surgeon should place his hand on the part where the pa- tient seems fo experience a pricking pain, or where the blow has been received ; and then the latter should be de- sired to cough, in which action the ribs must necessarily undergo a sudden motion, and a crepitus thereby be often rendered perceptible. However, all modern practical surgeons are in the habit of adopting the same treatment, w hen there is reason to suspect a rib fo be fractured, as if this were actually known to bathe case, by the occurrence of a crepitus, or by the projection of one end of the frac- ture, which, indeed, in instances which are displaced, makes the nature of the accident most conspicuous. When aspiculaof a fractured rib is beaten inward, we may easily perceive the reason, why very alarming symp- toms should frequently occur : extravasation of blood, emphysema, inflammation in the chest, &c. Excepting any particular urgent symptoms should arise, and whicli it is not my place to consider here, the treatment of fractured ribs is exceedingly simple. The object in view is to render the injured bone, or bones, during the cure, as motionless as possible. For this purpose a piece of soap plaster is to be applied to the situation of the fracture, and a broad roller is to be firmly put round the thorax. How- ever, as a roller is very apt to become slack, it is generally belter to get a piece of strong linen, sufficiently large to surround the chest. This cloth is then to be made to com- press the ribs, by being laced with proper tightness. Every person, in not a debilitated state, having a broken rib, or supposed to have such, should be bled as soon as the surgeon has applied a bandage. If a troublesome cough should afflict the patient, and disturb the fracture, the spermaceti mixture, with opium, should be exhibited.525 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRAE. The spinous, oblique, and transverse processes, and even the bodies of the vertebrae, are sometimes fractured. The spinous processes may be ascertained to be broken by the touch, uidess the swelling of the soft parts should be too considerable. The other fractures of the vertebrae can hardly be detected with certainty. When the broken spinous processes are out of their proper situation, they may generally be replaced with the fingers. Then the surgeon should place, on each side of the fracture, a piece of soap plaster, and over this a pad, and a small longitu- dinal strip of pasteboard. All these are to be retained in their situation by a roller applied round ihe body. Very alarming symptoms generally originate in case®, in which other parts of the vertebrae are fractured, and they are imputable to the concussion, compression, or other kind of injury of the spinal marrow. The higher frac- tures of the vertebra are, the greater is the danger. A frac- ture of the upper cervical vertebrae, or of the processus den- talus, or a rupture of the ligament of this process, is com- monly productive of instantaneous death. In general, when the patient is not killed in this sudden way, the sur- geon can do little more than employ antiphlogistic means. We read of incisions being made, and of the fragments of bone causing pressure on the spinal marrow, being elevat- ed and extracted ; but what practical surgeon would venture to imitate such practice ? FRACTURES OF THE OS SACRUM, AND OS COCCYGIS. The upper part of the os sacrum can hardly ever be broken, on account of its remarkable thickness; but, if it should be thus injured, the sugeori would have to adopt the same plan, as if a vertebra were fractured. When the lower part of the sacrum, or the os coccygis is broken, and when the detached piece of bone is driven inward, theFri?ST LINES OF TOE 526 surgeon is to introduce liis forefinger, previously oiled, into the rectum, and, with the assistance of the fingers of his ofher hand externally, he is to reduce the displaced part, i his being accomplished, little more can be done than ap- plying a pieCfe of soap plaster to the injured part, together with a T bandage; adopting the antiphlogistic regimen ; and enjoining the patient to avoid lying on his back, or sitting down. FRACTURES OF THE OS INNOMIN ATUM. This is not a very common accident; but it sometimes occurs, in consequence of such violence, as would be pro- duced by the passage of a heavy carriage over the pelvis, and the case is always exceedingly dangerous, on account of the simultaneous injury, which the viscera and other parts sustain. The antiphlogistic treatment seems to be the only thing likely to be of any utility ; for little good can be expected trorn bandages. In fractures of the bones ol the pelvis, it frequently becomes npcessary to use the catheter, in consequence of the patient’s inability to void his urine. The surgeon moist also direct his attention to any particular symptom that may arise. FRACTURE OF THE OS BRACIIII. This bone may be broken at its head, its lower part, or at any point between these two situations. A fracture of the head of the bone can oi ly lie distinguished by a very careful examination ; but when any oilier part of the os brachii is broken, ilie case is in general very easily detected by the occurrence of a crepitus. The fracture may be ^simple, compound, or complicated. The broken ends of the bone may be in a state of apposition : or they may be drawn asunder, and the limb be more or less shortened. When the lower end of the fracture is at all retracted, the biceps muscle, brarhialis interims, and coraco-1 rackialis, are to bejrclaxed, and moderate extension made. WhenPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 527 the fracture is situated near the elbow joint, the ends of the bone are hardly ever displaced, and, consequently, no extension whatever is commonly requisite. When the ex- ternal or internal condyle is fractured, the muscles, arising from the part, should be relaxed; a piece of soap plaster, a figure of eight bandage, and a splint, to the side of the arm, on which the injury is situated, should be applied, and the forearm placed in a sling. The external condyle cannot be broken without the fracture communicating with the joint, and in every instance in which there is reason to suspect this event, it is necessary to move the joint occa- sionally, in order to prevent the formation of adhesions with- in the capsular ligament, and an irremediable stillness of lire articulation. In ordinary fractures of the arm, it is usual to apply two pieces of soap plaster, which together surround the limb, at the situation where the accident has happened. Extension, if necessary, being now made by an assistant, who at once draws the lower portion of the bone downward, and bends the elbow, the surgeon is to apply a roller round the limb. The external splint is to extend from the acro- mion to the outer condyle, and being lined with a soft pad the wood cannot hurt the limb by pressure. Ti>e inter- nal splint is to reach from the margin of the axilla to a lit- tle below the inner condyle, and is to be well guarded with a pad, filled with tow, or any other soft materials. Some surgeons are content with the application of two splints; but though (he two above described are those on-which we are to place the greatest reliance; yet, as the cylindri- cal form ot the arm conveniently allows us completely to incase this part of the limb, in splints, I shall alwa ys lx: an advocate tor the employment of four ; one oil the outside, one on the inside, one on the front, and another on the back ot the arm. These arc to be carefully fixed in their respective situations by tapes.528 FIRST LINES OF THE jyta /:■ <') <**** FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. The radius and ulna may be broken at their middle, br extreme portions. Of the two bones the radius is far the most frequently fractured. When only one bone is broken, the ends of the fracture are, in general, not much dis- placed. Sometimes, however, the radius, when fractured alone, is drawn toward the ulna, and.in a few still more un- common instances, the latter bone, when-the only one broken is-inclined toward the radius. When both bones are broken, the ends of the fracture are liable to be dis- placed ; nay, cases are recorded, in which the radius and idna have so pressed against eacli other, that they have grown together, and the pronation and supination of the hand been totally destroyed. Fractures of the radius are very easily detected : for on endeavouring to rotate the bone, or, in other words, to place t he hand alternately in a prone, or supine posture, a crepitus is commonly per- ceived. When the two bones are broken, together with the crepitus, there is usually an evident distortion in the tigurc of the forearm. Fractures of the ulna, especially when situated high up, are not always very manifest to the touch ; however, if the surgeon make pressure on each side of the suspected point, with his thumbs alternately, he may generally distinguish a grating sensation. When only one bone is fractured, no extension is ordinarily re- quisite; but, if both the radius and ulna should be thus injured, moderate extension should always be made. During the treatment the elbow' is to be bent, and the hand put in the raid state, between pronation and supina- tion ; that is to say, the palm of the hand is to face the patient’s breast. Having reduced the ends of the fracture, if they should appear to be displaced, the soap plaster is to be applied, and over this a slack rollei. No one can doubt, (hat tight bandages may act very perniciously in fractures of the forearm, by pressing the radius and ulna529 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. M M together, causing them to grow to each other, or, at all events, making the fracture unite in an exceedingly uneven manner. Only two s lints are necessary; one is to be placed along the inside, the other along the outside of the forearm. Soft pads must always be interposed between the skin and the splints, in order to obviate the pressure of the hard materials, of which the latter are formed. The inner Splint should extend to about the last joint of the lingers ; but not completely to the end of the nails, for many pa- tients, after having had their fingers kept for several weeks in a state of perfect extension, have been a very long time in becoming able to bend them again. fracture of the olecranon. This case is easily distinguished, by the detached piece of bone being drawn upward from the rest of the ulna. The treatment consists in relaxing the triceps and anco- nams, by placing the arm in an extended position ; in pushing downward, and replacing the detached part of the olecranon ; and in confining it in a proper situation by means of compresses and a circular bandage, applied im- mediately above the point of the broken process. The arm is to be kept constantly extended by a splint, put in front both of the arm and forearm. After a time, it is re- commended to move the elbow very cautiously and gently, in order to prevent the occurrence of a stift’joint. FRACTURES OF THE METACARPAL BONES, AND FiNGERS, In the first sort of case the hand is to be laid on a fiat splint, after a piece of soap plaster, and a roller, have been applied. When the fingers are fractured, surgeons are usually content with keeping the part steady by longitu- dinal pieces of pasteboard put over the soap plaster, along each side of the finger, and tied on by tapes. During the treatment the hand should be kept quietly in a sling.530 .FIRST LINES OF THE FRACTURES OF THE THIGH. The fractured os fcmoris is a*tended with the following symptoms : severe local pain at the instant of the accident; sudden incapacity to move the limb ; a crepitus) which is sometimes very distinct on moving the ends of the fracture ; deformity, which occurs in a triple relation to length, breadth, aud direction. In regard to this latter diagnostic mark, viz. the deformity in cases of fractured thighs, it is necessary to have very precise ideas ; fur, as it has a con- tinual propensity to be reproduced, particularly in oblique fractures, its prevention is the principal object in the treatment. ' By far the majority of fractures of the thigh are attended with deformity ; a few transverse ones, and a few situated near the condyles of the os femoris, are the only excep- tions. If we consider the deformity, in regard to length, we find, that in oblique fractures, the limb is constantly shorter, than that of the opposite side, a circumstance plainly indicative of a displaced state of the ends of the fracture. By examining the situation of the .accident, one may easily ascertain, that the shortening of the limb arises, altogether, from the lower end of the fracture being drawn upward, beyond the upper one, which itself remains mo- tionless. The muscles are the only powers which caK cause this motion of the lower end of the fracture, from be- low upward. Attached on one side to the pelvis, and on the other to the patella, tibia, at 1 fibula, they make the for- mer their fixed, and the latter their moveable points ; and drawing upward the leg, (he knee, and the lower portion of the os femoris, they produce the displaced condition of the fracture. The triceps, semitendinosus, semimembrano- sus., rectus, gracilis, biceps, &c. are the chief agents. In Desault’s works, from which I have extracted the above accurate remarks, a case is mentioned, which affords a very striking illustration of the power of the muscles,, in531 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. M m2 producing a derangement of the ends of a fracture. A man broke his thigh, but the ends of the bone were not at all displaced, though the tracture was oblique. This circum-* stance was discovered to be o sing to paralysis ot the limb, and no sooner was the latter affection cured, and did the muscles regain their power of contraction, a few days af- terwards, than the lower end of the broken bone was drawn upward, as in ordinary cases. I have often observed, that fractured thighs are more apt to be followed by a permanent shortness of the limb, when they are treated on beds, which are too soft and yield- ing. Desault observes, that how firm soever the bed may be, as the buttocks form a greater projection than the other parts of the body, they soon cause a depression in the bedding, and hence a declivity of the plane, on which the trunk lies, is produced, so that the body glides downward, pushing before it the upper end of the frac ure, and making it pass beyond the lower one. No one can doubt, that the beds, on which broken thighs are placed, ought to be as unyielding as possible. Transverse fractures of the thigh are not so subject as oblique ones, to be attended with a shortening of the limb ; because the surface of (he upper end of Ihc fracture makes a mechanical resistance to the ascent of the lower one. The deformity of the limb, in regard to breadth, must necessarily accompany that in respect to length ; but, in transverse fractures, the first’sort of displaced state of the ends of the bone may, obviously, be the only one. In Desault’s works by Bichat, from which most of the preceding account is taken, it is next explained, how the deformity, in regard to direction, may result from the ope- ration of the blow causing the fracture; from the awkward- ness of those persons who carry the patient, or from the bad position in which the limb is laced. Besides the above kinds of deformity, the lower end of a fractured t-high bone is ordinarily rotated outward; anFIRST LINES OF THE effect, which all the strong muscles have a tendency to produce. \Ye may set it down as an invariable fad, that the higher a fracture is situated in the thigh bone, the greater is the difficulty in keeping the ends of the fracture in reciprocal contact. The reason of this circumstance is entirely ow- ing to the additional number of muscles, which, in this kind of case, acquire the power of drawing upward the lower portion ot the broken bone. It is obvious, that mus- cles, which have their insertion above the breach of conti- nuity, can have no effect in displacing the fracture, in re- gard to the length of Hie limb. When the neck of the os femoris is fractured, very se- vere pain is experienced at the upper part of the thigh, and especially, in the groin; and hence the limb cannot be moved without putting the patient to excruciating agony. The extremity is usually shortened ; the trochanter major., turned outward, and drawn upward upon the dorsum of the ilium. On extension being made, so as to bring down ihe end of the bone, which was displaced by the action ol the muscles, a crepitus may frequently be felt. It must ob- viously make a great difference, in regard to the degree, in •which the limb becomes shortened, whether the Iracture is situated within, or on the outside of the orbicular liga- ment. The ascent of the external end of the fracture must be greatly limited by this ligament, when the accident is situated within it, and the ligament itself is unlaccratcd. Nothing is a surer mark of the neck of the thigh bone being fractured, than the toes being turned outward, while the knee is in a moderate state ot flexion. When the fracture is within the orbicular ligament, the case is often difficult to ascertain with certainly ; pain, and inability to move the thigh, are almost the only symptoms. The knee, and toes, however, may be observed to be some- what more turned outward, than in the natural'state, in con- sequence of the action of the muscles, rotating the bone in533 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. this direction, being no longer counteracted by tlie resist- ance, arising from the continuily of the neck, and head of , the bone, when the latter part is lodged in the acetabulum. treatment of fractured thighs. Mr. Pott, seeing that the difficulty both in reducing dis- placed fractures of the thigh, and iu maintaining the ends of the bone in a proper state of apposition, arose from the action of such muscles, as could draw upward the loner portion of the broken os femoris, introduced into pract ice the method of placing the limb in a bent position, by which ?ie conceived the most powerful muscles were relaxed. The same position he recommended, both at the timeot reduc- tion, and during the future treatment. He states, that the position of the fractured os femoris should be on its out- side, resting on the great trochanter; the patient’s whole body should be inclined to the same side ; the knee sh utld be in a middle state, between perfect flexion and extension, or half bent; the leg and foot lying on (heir outside, also, should be well supported by smooth pillows, and should be rather higher in their level than the thigh. One very broad splint of deal, hollowed out and well covered with wool, rag, or tow, should be placed under the thigh, from above the trochanter quite below the knee; and another, some- what shorter, should extend from the groin below the knee on the inside, or rather in this posture on the upper side; the bandage should be of the eighteen-tail kind, and, v>ben the bone has been set, and the thigh well placed on (he pil- low, it should not, without necessity, be ever moved from it again until the fracture is united. Such is the plan, which was recommended by the above celebrated surgeon, and which is now most generally adopt- ed in this country. Whoever peruses Mr. Pott’s remarks on fractures with attention will be led to think, that this eminent practitioner actually conceived, that the above position oi the limb534 FIRST LINES OF TilE would relax every muscle connected with the broken bone; a thing1 which is certainly not effected. But, I believe, that when the direction, in which the lower end of the frac- tuie is displaced, is taken into consideration, viz. upward, behind the upper portion of the os femoris ; and when the muscles, which have the greatest tendency to produce this effect, arc calculated ; it will be granted, that most of such muscles, as have the greatest influence over the fracture, are more relaxed in the bent, than they are in the straight position of (he limb. However, Mr. Pott, by the term r<- laxation, might possibly mean only a state, in which the muscles are not. ac.ually stretched, though the origins and insertions of many of them might be brought much nearer together, There is one .part of the position, advised by Mr. Pott, for which i have never heard any reason assigned; and as the adoption of it seems tome likely to be detrimental, I cannot refrain fiom delivering my sentiments on the sub- ject, how presumptuous soever they may appear. 1 al- lude to (he direction to place the leg and foot rather higher in their level, than the thigh. Whoever has had oppor- tunities of seeing many cases of broken thighs, must know, that when (he ends of the fracture have become firmly united, the toes are frequently more turned outward than is proper. Now, I conceive, that nothing has a greater tendency to promote the occurrence of this defor- mity, than twisting outward the lower portion of the broken bone, by elevating the leg and foot above the level of the thigh ; and as this inconvenience does not seem to be counterbalanced by any manifest good, why should practitioners persevere in a servile adherence tp what they do not understand ? Mr. Pott has only mentioned two splints : the generality of practitioners now employ four. After placing the pa- tient in a proper position, the necessary extension is to be made. Then the under splint, having upon it a broadPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 535 soft pad, and an eighteen-tailed bandage, is to be laid un- der the thigh, from the great trochanter to the outer con- dyle. The surgeon, before applying the soap plaster, and oilier splints, is to take care, that the fracture lies as evenly as possible. FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. This bone is most frequently broken in a transverse direc- tion. The accident may happen in two ways, viz. in con- sequence of the action of external bodies, or of the exten- sor muscles. Jn the latter instance, the equilibrium of ihe body, having been inclined backward, the muscles in front contract to bring the line of gravity forward again ; the extensors of the leg, among other powers, exert themselves with such violence on the patella, that they pull the upper from the lower portion of this bone, and the patient falls down. Thus the fall is the consequence, not the cause, of the accident. The patella has been known to be fractured by making a very forcible kick : the olecranon, by merely throwing a stone. Longitudinal fractures of the patella are not very ob- vious : but transverse ones are easily recognized, in conse- quence of the upper portion of the bone being drawn a con- siderable way up the thigh, and there being a consider- able space, between the two pieces of the broken bone, very distinguishable by the touch. If the limb be extended, and the upper part of the patella be pushed sufficiently downward to touch the lower portion, a crepitus is felt. The patient cannot walk, suffers great pain, and expe- riences, in most cases, a total inability to extend the leg. However, the last circumstance must differ, according to the situation of the fracture, TREATMENT. The separation of the two pieces of a broken patella arises both from the contraction of the extensor muscles,FIRST LINES OF THE 536 ■which draw upward the superior portion, and from the flexion of the knee, bj which the inferior part is moved downward. Hence, the proper means for maintaining the fracture in a state of apposition, are such as oppose the action of the muscles, and such as keep the leg perma- nently extended. The power of the muscles is to be dimi- nished by putting them in a state of relaxation, and by compressing them with a roller. The leg is to be extended on the thigh ; this is to be bent on the pelvis; a bandage to beappLed to the whole thigh ; and, lastlj^some mecha- nical resistance is to be made above the upper portion of the broken bone. For the last purpose, a compress is usually put under the roller. The limb is most conve- niently kept in the proper position, by placing two splints along the sides ol the knee joint, and making the part of the bed on which the leg and thigh are laid gradually as- cend to a proper height, from the patient’* buttock to his heel. It is remarkable, that the broken patella hardly ever unites by means of callus: the connecting substance, in gt least ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, is found to be of a ligamentous, or cartilaginous nature. FRACTURES OF THE LEG. "W hen both the tibia and fibula are broken, the patienf~ cannot bear the weight of the body on his limb ; but when the fibula alone is fractured, though progression is attended with pain and difficulty, it is not altogether impracticable. In examining a leg, suspected to be fractured, the surgeon should trace the anterior surface of the tibia, called the shin, and the spine of this bone, in order to ascertain, whe- ther any inequality, or projection exists. However, in fractures of the tibia, a crepitus generally makes the nature of the case sufficiently manifest. When the fibula is the only bone broken, the injury is not so easily ascertained, because the tibia, (he main bone of the leg, still preserves53? PRACTICE OF SURGERY. the stability of the limb, while no crepitus is very often distinguishable. When both bones are broken, the action of the muscles of the calf, together with the weight of the limb itself, usually occasions a distortion of the leg, the heel being drawn backward, and the foot inclining towards the side, to which its own unsupported weight inclines it. In oblique fractures, the deformity is always most conspir cuous, and the sharp point of the lower end of the tibia frequently makes a considerable projection forward, threat- ening to protrude through the skin. The latter effect is entirely owing to the strong action of the muscles, on the posterior part of the leg. The same cause commonlypro- duces, at the same time, a shortness of the injured limb. Mr. Pott takes notice of a very common case, and one, which when care is not taken to relax the muscles, often proves exceedingly troublesome. This eminent practi- tioner observes, that when the tibia is forced from its just and perpendicular position on the astragalus, probably the capsular ligament, but always (hose strong ligamentous fibres, which connect the lower end of the tibia with the astragalus, and os calcis, must be lacerated. Such is the case, when the fibula breaks within two or three inches pf the malleolus externus; when the inferior end of the fracture fulls inward toward the tibia; when the malleolus fxternus is turned somewhat outward, and upward ; and the tibia, having lost its proper support, is forced off from the astragalus inwards. To this perfect fracture, and par- tial dislocation, is sometimes added a wound in the integu- ments, made by the bo e a he inner ankle. The difficulty in reducing the case, and keeping if so: the distortion of the foot upward, and outward ; are caused by the action of sue li muscles, as have tendons passing be- hind the tibia and fibula, under the os calcis, or at ached to these hones. Hence, in this instance, the utility of -■> laxing the powerful muscles, is strikingly exemplified if the limb be laid on its outside, u'ilk the knee moderately'533 FIRST LINES OF THE * Plate IX. bent, the muscles, forming the calf of the leg, and those, which pass behind the fibula, and under the os calcis, are, to use Mr. Pott’s expression, all put into a state of relaxa- tion, and non-resistance ; all the difficulty and trouble, in general, vanish immediately ; the foot may easily be placed right, the joint reduced, and, by observing the same posi- tion, every thing will commonly succeed. Mr. Pott’s pos- ture for a fractured leg and thigh, is represented in the an- nexed engraving.* Mr. Sharp’s splints, made of tin, instead of pasteboard, arc as good as any, which can be employed. They should always be of sufficient length, to extend from the condyles of the os femoris quite to the foot. The muscles being re- laxed by placing the limb in the position represented in the plate, the surgeon is to make such extension, as seems re- quisite for bringing the ends of the fracture into even appo- sition. Then he is carefully to raise the leg a little way from the surface of the bed, by taking firmly hold of the limb, below and above the fracture, and elevating the broken bones together in such a v ay, as shall keep both the upper and lower portions, as nearly as possible on the same level. At this moment, an assistant should put ex- actly under the leg the under splint, which has been pre- viously prepared, by covering iL w ith a soft pad, and lay- ing over this an eighteen-tailed bandage. The leg is now to be gently depressed, fill it becomes supported on the ap- paratus. The surgeon, before he proceeds further, should once more observe, that the ends of the bones are evenly in contact. Being assured of this important point, he is to apply a piece of soap plaster over the situation of the frac- ture, and lay down the tails of the bandage. Another soft pad, well filled with tow, is next to be put over the upper surface of the leg, and the other splint applied. The strapsfPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 539 should be tight enough, to make the splints prevent any motion of the ends of the fracture. The pressure of these hard instruments is pf'eu exceedingly painful, and even productive of sloughing, and ulceration, unless the sur- geon skilfully place soft materials, between them and such parts, as seein most liable to be injured in this manner ; for instance, the lower end of the fibula; the outside and in- side of the foot; the inside of (lie knee, &c. Besides the two splints and pads already mentioned, I find, when the fracture is oblique, and the heel has a great tendency to be drawn backward, that this effect is very much counteracted by applying a compress, and longitu- dinal piece of pasteboard, from the lower part of the belly of the gastrocnemius muscle to the heel, under the straps of the other splines. I have observed, that this method prevents deformity in a very powerful manner. When there is a great deal of contusion of !he soft parts, together with the injury of the bones, it is better, at first, to keep the leg wet with the lotion of sal ammoniac and vinegar, by means of linen dipped In this application, and put under the splints. The splints need not be taken off, every time it is necessary to wet (he linen again : it is quite sufficient to squeeze the fluid out of a sponge, info the in- terspaces between the above instruments. Nothingisso prejudicial, in cases of fractured bones, as too frequently proving the injured parts.FIRST LINES OF THE CHAP. LXV. PARTICULAR DISLOCATIONS, DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER JAW. THE lower jaw bone may be said to be subject to only- one kind of dislocation, in which the condyloid processes advance beyond the emirientia articularis, and slip under the zygoma. Sometimes, the luxation is only on one side, but, in general, on both. In the latter case, the appeal- ance of the countenance is much altered ; the mouth is widely open, and cannot be shut; and the length of the face is very much increased by the chin being thrown for- ward, and downward, towards the breast. When only one condyle is dislocated, the mouth is distorted, and turned towards the opposite side, while the fellow teeth of each jaw do not correspond. All dislocations of the jaw are attended with considerable pain ; an inability to arti- culate words ; an incapacity of swallowing; and a flux of saliva from the mouth. The jaw bone cannot be luxated in this manner, unless the mouth, just before the occurrence of Ibe accident, be very much open, in which state, the condyles of the bone are naturally moved forward. Hence, the dislocation mostly happens, when the patient is laughing, gaping, &C. £ blow on the jaw, when the mouth is very much open, may easily cause the accident. rlhe case is sometimes produced by the force, used in drawing a tooth. When- ever the lower jaw has once been dislocated, any ol the preceding causes, reproduce the occurrence with much more facility. It is evident from the circumstances, in which a personPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 541 •with a dislocated jaw is placed, that very severe com- plaints, and even death, may follow the accident, if no as- sistance should be given. In reducing a dislocated jaw, the surgeon is to make the bone act as a lever, in moving the displaced condyles. The thumbs, well covered with a thick pair of gloves, are to be introduced, as far backward as possible, along the grinding teeth. Then, with the fingers and palms of his hands, the practitioner is to take firmly hold of each side of the dislocated bone, and while he depresses the condyles with his thumbs, he is to elevate the chin. These two ac- tions co operate to produce the same'effect. As soon as the condyles are freed from the confined situation, beneath the zygoma, the contraction of all the muscles, which are concerned in shutting the jaw, almost at the same in- stant, both draws the condyloid processes back into their natural situation, and forcibly closes the mouth, so that the surgeon’s thumbs would be in danger of being bitten, if care were not taken to cover them with thick gloves, and withdraw them, immediately the reduction is effected. When only one condyle is dislocated, the same plan of re- ducing the part is applicable to the side, on which the ac- cident is situated. Reduction having been accomplished, the patient should, for some time afterwards, avoid all such actions as laughing, yawning, &c. and the jaw should be supported by a bandage with four tails, in the same way as was re- commended for the fractured lower jaw. DISLOCATION OF TIIL HEAD. The os oecipitis is so firmly connected with the first cervical vertebra, or atlas, that it is hardly posssible, that any separation should originate from external force. How- ever, the articulation of the atlas and deutata, that is, of the first and second vertebras, not being so strong, either a dislocation forward may occur, in consequence of a rup-FIRST LINES OF THE 542 turc of the ligaments, which naturally confine the processus dcntatus in its situation in front of the spinal marrow, or a luxation, sideways, may be produced, in consequence of that process itself being fractured. Such alarming accidents may happen, when a person is thrown from a horse, or falls from any high situation, so as to pitch on his head, or receive a very violent blow on his neck. When the processus dcntatus is dislocated back- ward, the head itself is thrown forward, and is preterna* tnrally moveable; the face swells ; the eyes become pro- minent; the mouth isopen; the tongue is motionless ; the respiration difficult; the pulse small, and slow ; the body is deprived of seiisibiliiy and motion; and the patient is in a dyingstate. A complete luxation of the upper cervical vertebras is productive of almost instantaneous death, by the injury, or compression, which the spinal marrow must inevitably suffer. .But an incomplete dislocation, we are informed, may sometimes admit of relief, and life be preserved by the timely interference of art. There arc, certainly, in dif- ferent museums, anchylosed cervical vertebrae, in which the canal for the spinal marrow is very much lessened, in con- sequence of a preceding partial luxation. Callisen in- forms us, that he has such specimens in his own possession. However, we may fairly infer, from the remaining diminu- tion in the canal for the spinal marrow, that art had very little share in the cure, and that (lie preservation of life was not owing to the dislocation having been reduced, but to the spinal marrow having accommodated itself to any slight pressure, which it might have suffered. There can be no doubt of the rationality of attempting an immediate reduction of the processus dcntatus, if signs of life should exist. This processes thrown back, so ai> t o compress, or injure the spinal marrow, while the atlas, and head itself, are thrown forward. The recollection of these circumstances will enable a surgeon to do what is proper, -PRACTICE OF SURGERY, * 543 better than any detailed directions. It seems, also, need- less to explain, exactly, how he should proceed, if the processus dentatus were fractured, and the second vertebra, consequently, luxated sideways. DISLOCATION OF THE VERTEBRAE. The dorsal and lumbar vertebrae arc very rarely dislo- cated, on account of the strength of the ligaments, and the conformation oi the bones themselves. However, occa- sionally, the oblique, or articular processes being fractur- ed, by the operation of great violence, the vertebrae are usually disloca.ted. 'Hie symptoms are, an incapacity to stand erect; the patient leaning sideways, or forwards; the spinous pro- cesses become irregular in their arrangement; and there are signs of the spinal marrow being injured, or compress- ed ; retention, or incontinence of the urine, and faeces; the lower extremities become paralytic and motionless; and even death itself may follow, The symptoms must neces- sarily vary, according to the degree of pressure, which the spinal marrow suffers, and the situation of the luxation. Very similar symptoms may also arise, when the spinal marrow has merely undergone a very violent concussion, without any dislocation of the vertebra?. The ancients have given us descriptions of various ma- chines kg reducing these luxations; but whoever considers the danger there is of increasing the pressure on the spinal marrow, instead of diminishing it, by the application of force, will be cautious not to be too bold. It is very certain, that most of the cases, mentioned hy authors, as dislocations of the vertebra?, have only been concussions of the spinal marrow, or fractures of the above bones. DISLOCATION OF THE OS COCCYGIS. This bone is said to be liable to two hinds of luxations;5-14 ElRST LINES'OF THE one inward, the other outward. The first case is always occasioned by external violence; the second, by the pres- sure of the child’s head, in difficult labours. The nature of these accidents is easily detected by the foregoing causey and by an examination with the fingers, externally, and within the rectum. Pain; retention of the faeces,- and urine; lin afflicting tenesmus; inflammation, sometimes, terminating in abscesses, uhicli interest the rectum; are symptoms, said to attend, and follow, dislocations of the os cbccygis. Luxations of this sort are easy of reduction. When the bone is dislocated outward, it may be readily replaced in its natural situation, by making proper pressure exter- nally, and supporting the little bone, at the same time, by a finger introduced into the rectum. The reduction being finished, a piece of soap plaster, a compress, and the T ban- dage, may be applied. W hen the os coccygis is luxated inward, the surgeon h to smear his fore finger with oil, and introduce it into the rectum. Then the bone,is to be pressed outward, while proper resistance is made externally with the fingers of the other hand. After the reduction, all pressure is to be care- fully avoided, lest the bone should be forced inward again. DISLOCATION OF THE ItIBS. These bones are very rarely luxated at their articulation with the vertebras; but the case is said to occur every now and then in practice. Authors state, that a hollow is per- ceptible at the side of the transverse process of the verte- bra ; and that when pressure is made on the thorax, so as to push backward the dislocated rib, the head of the bone may be distinctly felt moving into its proper situation, provided the fingers are duly placed for this purpose. The treatment of a dislocated rib is very simple r the displaced head of the bone is to be first reduced by firmly pressing backward its anterior end. Then a thick com'545 PRACTICE OF SURGERY. press is to be placed over the front extremity of the bony part of the rib; while another compress is put over the transverse processes of the vertebrae; and both are to be kept on by a roller. The same symptoms, which occasionally result from fractures of the ribs, may follow dislocations, and will re- quire such treatment, as was explained in the preceding chapter. When a rib is forcibly separated from its cartilage, or this from the sternum, the case demands the same treat- ment as a fracture. dislocation of the clavicle. Fractures of the clavicle are much more common than dislocations, as any one might easily infer, who considers the slender structure, and exposed position, of the bone, and the direction in which external force will commonly operate upon it. A dislocation is much more common at the sternal, than the scapular, extremity of the clavicle, on account of the greater degree of motion, which takes place at the former situation, and the weaker structure of the ligaments, than at the articulation with the acromion. When a dislocation happens at the sternum, the clavicle is usually thrown forward; sometimes, however, back- ward, in which event, the symptoms are commonly severe, on account of the pressure produced by the bone on the parts situated in the anterior part of the neck. The dislocation of the scapular end of the clavicle is always upwards; for the root of the coracoid process, on which it rests, will not allow the bone to descend below the acromion. A luxation of the clavicle frem the scapula is liable to be mistaken for a dislocation, of (he os brachii, in consequence of the front and upper portion of the deltoid muscle becoming flattened, and there being an apparent depression at the top of the shoulder. The treatment con- sists in taking off the weight of the arm, by placing the N NI is * FIRST LINES OF THE elbow and forcafm in a sling ; in pushing downward thesca- pillar end of the clavicle, while an effort is made to raise the acromion ; and in applying compresses, and a spica bandage, for the purpose of keeping the end of the clavicle from ascending again. At the time of attempting to reduce this dislocation, the trapezius muscle ought to be relaxed. Thc^dislocation of the clavicle from tlie sternum is to be reduced; by making pressure in a proper direction. The arm is to be kept quietly in a sling; and, in short, the same treatment is to be adopted, as if the bone were' broken. DISLOCATION OF THE OS URACI111. The shoulder joint, is so loose, and moveable, and (he glenoid cavity of the scapula so shallow, that more dislo- cations are said to occur in this situation, than in all the other join s together. The acromion and (he coracoid pro- cesses of the scapula, and the ligament, between them, pre- vent luxations upward. Th6 arm may be luxated directly downward, ill such a way, that some point of the head of the. bone rests against the inferior edge of the scapula. This case, however, is uncommon.' The head of (he os brachii may, also, be dislocated forwards, towards the breast; or it may be luxated backwards, under the spine of the scapula. The two latter cases arc exceedingly common. The three above mentioned dislocations are usually distinguished by the tends, downward, forward, and bavhtcard. In the dislocation downward, the arm seems longer than is natural, and it is a little raised from the side, while the forearm is extended, in consequence of the ten- sion of the triceps musold. The arm cannot possibly be approximated to the chest, nor can the forearm be bent, without creating pain. A vacancy is distinguishable mi- ller the acromion, and the deltoid muscle, being unsup-PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 547 ported by the head of the bone, the fulness of the shoul- der is lost. The head of the os brachii may be felt in the axilla, and the bone cannot be raised in a line with the acromioi^). When the luxation is backward, the elbow is very mnch inclined towards the fore part ot (lie thorax, from which posture it cannot be moved, without considerable pain. The pectoral muscle is in a state of tension, and the limb seems longer than is natural. This luxation is not so fre- quent as the next. When the os brachii is dislocated forward, the arm is very much shortened; the head of the bone may be felt forming a pi'otubeiance under the pectoral muscle: the forearm is somewhat bent; the elbow is thrown to a little distance from the side,' and cannot be placed near if, with- out) the patient experiencing tt good deal ot pain; the co- racoid process cannot be very easily fell; and the hollow, below the acromion, though Aery distinguishable, is not so manifest, as when the head of the bone is thrown downward into the axilla, or backward beneath the spine ot the sca- pula. When the head of the bone lodges in the axilla, its pressure on the nerves and large vein may occasion pa- ralysis, and oedema, of the limb. We may conclude, when the os brachii is dislocated for- ward, that the tendons of the muscle-, ot the scapula must often he ruptured. The best modern surgeons are of opinion, that none of the mechanical contrivances tor making extension, devised by the ancient*, are so eligible as a skilful employment of the power of the bands alone. The first object, in the treatment of a dislocation, is to dislo;!ge the head of the us bnifhii from the situation, which it occupies, in order to bring it on a level with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. To accomplish this pur- x n 2548 FIRST LINES OF THE pose advantageously, proper extension must be made, while the bone itself should be made to operate as a lev?r in moving the head to any side, by having a long towel placed a little below the axilla, by means of which towel, skilfully pulled by an assistant, the necessary fulcrum may be formed. As soon as the head of the bone is brought opposite the glenoid cavity, the limb should be resigned to the action of the muscles, which draw the bone into its natural situa- tion. When the extension is made, it is necessary to fix the patient’s body by placing a broad towel round the chest, and tying it to some very immoveable point. The clavi- cle and scapula are, also, to be kept back with the hand* of an assistant . The elbow is to be bent. The extending power should be applied a little above the con d v 1 oftheos brachii. The extension should be, at first, very gradual, and it should not be remitted till the object in view is accomplished. In this way the muscles of the most athletic man may be overcome ; while the most violent ' extension, not regularly maintained, will often fail. The part of the arm, round which the towel for making the chief extension is placed, should be defended by flannel. When the head of the bone has been so moved, that it seems likely to return into the gleuoid cavity, by the action of the muscles, the assistants, who are making the exten- sion, are to be directed to diminish it. On this being done, if the surgeon merely attend to keep the head of the bone on a level with the socket, the reduction spontane- ously follows. The arm is afterwards to be kept quietly in a sling, and a piece of soap plaster, and a spica bandage applied to the shoulder. Some surgeous use multiplied pulleys for mak- ing extension, and as far as my own experience extends, they answer the purpose extremely well. iI PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 549 DISLOCATION OF THE ELBOW. The forearm cannot be thrown forward without a frac- ture of the olecranon. The most frequent dislocation at this part consists in the ulna being pushed into the place of the radius, on the lower end of the humerus. The form of the bones is almost an insurmountable obstacle to a dis- location inward. From the perusal of books one mi;’ suppose, dislocations at the elbow were so obviou , hr.; n« mac, however deficient in talents and attention, could possibly fall into error. This is far from being true; for accidents of this kind are commonly productive of so rapid and con- siderable a degree of swelling, that the form of the joint is yery much obscured. When Ike ulna is pushed into the situation of the ra- dius, the space between the olecranon and internal con- dyle, is much greater than is natural. These points of bone are always very distinguishable let the joint be ever so much swollen, and hence the information, to be derived from an examination of them, may be obtained in every case, without exception. When the ulna is pushed into the place of the radius, the latter bone cannot be easily rotated, nor can the forearm be bent, and extended in a perfect manner. Sometimes the radius is driven forwards, and the ulna backwards, the coronoid process of the latter bone being generally at the same time fractured. Dislocations of the elbow joint are easily reduced, as soon as the necessary extension is made. The arm should afterwards be kept in a sling, and the inflammation of the joint should be averted, by keepingthe part constantly surrounded with linen, wet with the saturnine lotion. DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST. These cases are particularly obvious to the most super-FIRST LINES OF THE 550 fici?.I examiner r the hand becomes considerably distorted, whenever one of the lateral ligaments of the wrist is rup- tured. in cases, in which great violence has operated, the carpal bones are sometimes thrown before, or behind the radius. There is never much difficultly in reducing dislocations of the wrist. When the articular-surfaces are put in a proper situation, in regard to each other, a splint should be applied along the inside of the forearm, and palm of the 1 and, in order to keep the wrist from moving. I need hardly mention the propriety of wearing a sling. When the thumb or fingers are dislocated, they are to be reduced, and incased and supported in pasteboard, the hand and forearm being kept in a sling, till a cure is effected. DISLOCATIONS OF THE THIGH BONE. The most frequent case is that in w hich the head of'the os fern oris is dislocated on the obturator foramen, that is, downward and forward. This kind of accident is the most common, because the brim of the acetabulum is not so high in the above direction, and the ligamentum teres is in- serted so near the notch, which faces the obturator fora- men, that the head of the bone can descend in the above way, without the ligament itself being ruptured. The case, which ranks next in regard to frequency, is that in which the head of the thigh bone is dislocated to- wards the sacro-iscliiatic foramen, the great trochanter being situated forward, and the limb being turned inward. The most rare kind of dislocation is that, in which the head of the os femoris is thrown on the dorsum of the ilium, in such a manner, that the trochanter major projects backward, while the head of the bone is situated obliquely forward. Many surgeons of great experience have never seen this case. However, there is no doubt of its occasional occurrence, as my own observation enables me to state : a thin lad, about fourteen ^cars old, wasPRACTICE OF SURGERY. 5£l brought to St. Bartholomew’s hospital, during one of Mr. Long’s accident weeks, about seven years ago. r\ he boy had fallen down, by which accident one of his legs became considerably shortened, with (he toes turned very fir outward. The head of the bone could be plainly felt behind the trochanter major. There was considerable pain, and the patient was quite incapacitated irorn moving the limb. I could not move the extremity in any direction, without a great deal of difficulty and resistance, and without making the lad sutler considerable torture. When proper ex- tension had been made, the head of the bone slipped into the acetabulum, and the boy, almost instantly, became free from pain, and acquired the faculty of moving the thigh bone again in every direction. In about ten days he went from the hospital, able to walk in the most perfect manner. This is the only kind of dislocation of the thigh liable to be mistaken for a fracture of the neck of the bone, be- cause ihc toes are turned outward, and the limb shortened In the common luxation on the obturator foramen, the toes are turned outward ; but the dislocation is easily dis- criminated from a fracture, for the whole extremity seems elongated ; while, on the contrary, fractures are neyer at- tended with any apparent increase of the length ot the limb, but almost always, with a diminution of it, in conse- quence of the lower portion of the broken bone being drawn upward by the action of the muscles. When the on femoris is luxated upward and backward, with the trochanter major forward, and the head of the bone backward, the limb is shortened; the thigh, leg, and foot, arc turned inward ; the patient suffers immense pain, when the on femoris is moved outward, and the fibres of the triceps rendered still more tense, than they must necessarily be by the nature of fhe accident; the buttock appears more pro- minent, on account of the presence of the head of the bone;FIRST LINES OF THE '552 and the whole limb is often quite numbed, by the pres- * sure on the sciatic nerve. * ■ In reducing dislocations of the thigh, the surgeon should place the patient on the side, opposite that on which the 'accident has happened ; and fix the pelvis by placing a sheet underneath the perineum, and tying it to one of the posts of the bed. The multiplied pulley, if this be employed, or another sheet, is to be fastened round the lower portion of the os femoris, just above the condyles. If the head of the bone be on the dorsum of the ilium, or near the sacro-ischiatic foramen, the extension is to be made in a gradual, and un» remitting manner, and in such a direction as seems to be the midline between a right and perpendicular one, in re- gard to the pelvis. As soon as the head of the bone has been brought on a level with the acetabulum, the surgeon is to press it towards this cavity, at the same time that the assistants continue the extension. When the thigh bone is dislocated forward, and down, ward, the object is to make a lever of the bone itself, by placing a sheet a little way below the trochanters, which sheet being properly drawn upward by an assistant, after a little extension has been made, serves as a fulcrum, on which the head of the bone may be moved into the aceta. bulum. In order to accomplish this purpose, sufficient extension is to be made in the same manner as in the fore- going cases, just to dislodge the bone from the place which it occupies; then, while an assistant draws up- ward the sheet, placed a little below the trochanters, the surgeon is tq make a lever of the bone by depressing the Condyles. DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA.. The patella is sometimes dislocated inward, but, very' jarely, outward. The articular surface of the lower end fPRACTICE OF SURGERY." 553 of the os femoris is so high towards the outer condyle, that the latter case is very uncommon. * ' - The reduction is a thing most easily accomplished, as-, soon as the extensor muscles, and ligament of the patella, have been relaxed by a proper position. * ■ *' * ’ DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. The upper head of the tibia can hjirdly be completely luxated, without a laceration of the soft parts, and inte- guments, in such a degree, that the limb could not well be preserved. The leg is sometimes twisted outward, and this may happen without any rupture of the crucial liga- ments, the internal lateral ligament being the only one broken. On the other hand, when the bones of the leg are twisted inward, the crucial ligaments, and external la- teral ligament, must inevitably be ruptured. These cases are, for the most part, very easy of reduc- tion. The joint should afterwards be kept perfectly quiet for several weeks. However, many practitioners would be advocates for gently moving the joint occasionally, in order to prevent the formation of adhesions within the capsular ligament. DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE. I have already noticed, in the chapter ofl particular fractures, the dislocation of the foot outward, in which case, the whole weight of the body being transmitted to the slender fibula, this bone is at the same time most com- monly fractured. The occurrence is attended with a rup- ture of the internal lateral ligament. Mr. Pott has taken particular notice of this accident in his remarks on frac- tures. The foot may sometimes be luxated inward, and the external lateral ligament broken. Occasionally, the foot is thrown forward, so that the narrow part of the as- tragalus becomes situated before the space between the two554 FIRST LINES, kc. vinUeoIi. This case is very difficult to manage, in conse- quence of the powerful manner in which the muscles of the calf of the leg draw up the heel, and displace the bones. This event is more difficult to prevent, because the steadiness of the joint is not at all maintained by the lateral ligaments, which are both commonly ruptured. Dislocations of the ankle are rendered much more peril- ous, by being attended with a wound leading into the joint. However, compound dislocations, and fractures, have already been noticed in the first part of the work, aud I shall not now expatiate on the subject^ In reducing dislocations of the ankle, the strong mus- cles of the calf of the leg should always be relaxed. When the reduction is accomplished, the leg ought to be put in splints, and placed on its outside in a bent position, just as if the case were a fracture, » ■ .£ -.t t t * . . v.’ - Ip ’ ■ • > ■ , Y) f> ^ . ■ ' ‘ »' THE EmVALUABLE BOOKS .RECENTLY PUBLISHED ’ By RICHARD PHILLIPS, •••■• ■ ' - " •• No. 6, Bridge-Street, London. A NEW AND. COMPENDIOUS DICTIONARY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, completed within the year, by the publica- tion of a twelve shilling part on the First Day of every Month; the whole making Twelve Parts, or Two large and elegant Quarto Volumes, with One Hundred and Forty superior Engravings, Price 71. 4s. in boards. By G. GREGORY, D. D. Doctor in Philosophy and the Arts, and Honorary Member of the Imperial University of Wilfla ; Member of ;he Manchester and Newcastle Literary and Philosophical Societies; Honorary Member of the Board of Agriculture j Domestic Chaplain to the Lord Bishop of Llandaff; Vicar of West Ham; Author of Essays Historical and Moral; the Economy of Nature, &c. A Dictionary of Arts and Sciences in a compendious form, suf- ficiently copious without being prolix, accurate but not ctilfuse, divested of all superfluous matter, compressing rather than copy- ing what has been done by others, and exhibiting a clear but con- cise view of the present state of the various branches of human knowledge, has long been a desirable object to English Readers and students. The following are the immediate advantages which are pro- mised to the purchasers of this new Dictionary. First, It exhibits a compendium of the actual present state of all .human knowledge, the more luminous because cleared of all ex- traneous* matter ; rather practical than speculative; and in which particular attention has been paid to the most useful branches. Sefond, It is of a convenient and comparatively portable size, calculated to lie on the table of every studious person, as a book of constant reference. Third, It is printed so as to correspond with the quarto editions of Dr. Johnson’s Dictionary; and the possessors of both works thus have, in tour quarto volumes, and at a moderate expence, all the literary and scientific aid winch tire English student or reader can possibly require. History. The HISTORY of GREAT BRITAIN from the REVOLU- TION of 168S, (when Hume’s History' terminates) to the Treaty of Amiens in 1802. By William Belsham, Esq. A new edi-BOOKS PRINTED FOR R. PHILLIPS. «on, being the fourth, including recent corrections and consider- able additions by tlie author; with Appendixes, consisting of a series of State Papers and authentic Documents, illustrative of the Text and of English History from the Revolution to the present Time, in twelve uniform volumes octavo, price 61. 6s. in boards. N. B. This is the ONL\ HISTORY of the same period, and the only uniform work which continues the History of Mr. Hume to the present time, thereby completing a series of our national history, with spirit, fidelity, and ability, from the aboriginal Britons to the year 1802. The HISTORY of GEORGE the THIRD may be had sepa- rately, in eight volumes, price 41.4s. in boards, or any two volumes may be had separately, price 10s. 6d. each in boards. This work .enables those persons who are possessed of Smollet’s History to the death of George II. or of Smollet and Hume, to corn- pleat their series of English History down to the Peaee of Amiens in IS02. The Appendixes to the first ten volumes may be had separate- ly, price One Guinea in boards, by those who have bought those volumes without the State Papers; the 11th and 12th volumes have never been sold without the State Papers. ^ The HISTORY of ENGLAND, from the Invasion of Julius Caesar to the Revolution, by David Hume, Esq. in eight vo- lumes, 8vo, with portraits, price 2l. l6s. in boards. *.** Hume’s and Belsham’s Histories of England, including to- gether a Period of Time from the aboriginal Britons to the Peace of Amiens, may be had complete in Twenty uniform Volumes, price Nine Pounds in boards. ARCIIfiEOLOGlA GRHlCA or, the Antiquities of Greece : being an Account of the Manners and Customs of the Greeks, relating to their Government, Magistracy, Laws, Judicial Pro- ceedings, Religion, Games, Military and Naval Affairs, Dress, Exercises, Baths, Marriages, Divorces, Funerals, Domestic Em- ployments, Entertainments, Food, Music, Painting, Public Build- ings, Harbours, Weights and Measures, &c. &c. By William May or, price f2s. boards. Biography. The LIFE of GENERAL WASHINGTON, Commander in Chief of the American forces during the war which established the inu< nenaence of his country, and first president of the United States; compiled under the inspection of his nephew, the Hon. Eusi:roe Washington, from original papers bequeathed to him by his deceased relative. By John Marshall, Chief Justice '< f the United States, See. See. To which is prefixed, an intro- duction, containing a compendious view of the colonies planted . • t.h'e English on the continent of North America. Vols. I. II. Li; TV. and V. (which complete? the work) elegantly printed in 4to. price ll. Us.’fid. each in boards. Another edition printed in demy octavo, price 12s. each volume in boards.BOOKS PRINTED FOR R. PHILLIPS. A BIOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL* and CHRONOLO- GICAL DICTIONARY ; being a faithful account of the Lives, Actions, and Characters, of the most eminent persons of all Ages and Countries, with a recapitulation of the Revolutions of States, and tlie succession of sovereign princes 3 containing two thousand articles more than are to be found in any other Biographical Dic- tionary. By John Watkins, L.L. D. A new and greatly en- larged edition, m which are annexed the authorities of each arti- cle, price 3 6s. in boards. PUBLIC CHARACTERS of 1806—7> consisting of Biogra- phical Memoirs of eminent Living Persons, faithfully and impar- tially compiled from authentic Sources. In one large volume, Svo, price 10s. 6d, boards, *** Also new editions of the Eight preceding volumes, each at the same price, containing nearly five hundred contemporaries between 1797 and 1806. Geography and Topography. MODERN LONDON ; being the History and Present State ©f the British Metropolis, faithfully drawn up from die most au- thentic materials, and illustrated with a series of highly-finished engravings, on a plan entirely new. In ono large and elegant volume, 4to, embellished..widi fifty-four copper-plates, thirtv one of which are coloured, 31.3s. in boards. N. B. It lias been the intention of the editors of the present splendid and valuable work, to exhibit London as it is, and to furnish English- men and foreigners with a systematic, complete, and elegant perform- ance, worthy of being received as a faithful portrait of the greatest city in the world. This is, in fact, the only work of respectability and cha- racter which describes modern London, and which deserves to oc- cupy a place in a nobleman’s or gentleman's library, by the side of Mr. Pennant’s work, which it should be understood,'treats onlv of the Antiquities and former State of London. The PRESENT STATE of PERU, comprising an account of its Geography, Topography, Natural History, Mineralogy, Cc - merce, Customs and Manners, as well of its civilized . . uncivil- ized'Inhabitants, State of Literature, Philosophy, tile Arts vl The whole drawn from original and authentic documents, chiefi- written and compiled in the Peruvian Capital 3 to uh;ch L added7, an Appendix, containing the modern Travels of the ML..^ in the hitherto unexplored mountainous territories. ;,d other in- teresting particulars relative to tiie idolatrous tribes of Indians. In one large and elegant volume, 4to. illustrated oy twenty co- loured engravings, 2l. 5s. in boards. Voyages and Travels, TRAVELS in UPPER and LOWER CANADA, with Voyages on the River St. Lawrence, and the Great I • /.-<, containing a complete Account of the present State and Co ... ter tho,e im- mense and valuable Territories. By Geoege aIebiot, Esq.BOOKS PRINTED FOR R. PHILLIPS. Deputy Postmaster of British America. In one very large and elegant Volume, 4to. illustrated with Thirty Engravings from Draw ings by the Author, price 21. 15s. m boards, or 31. 5s. with the, plates coloured. Iv 11. A few Copies of the Plates prepared in colours have been clone pp in a separate Adas, price 3l. 13s. (id in boards. TRAVELS through HOLLAND and along the RHINE to MENTZ, in the Autumn of 180(i. By Sir John Carr, in 4to, illustrated with Twenty exquisite Engravings, price 21. 2s. in boards; A VOYAGE to DEMERAKY, containing circumstantial Ac- counts of that Settlement, and all the other European Settlements in Surinam. Ry H. Bolixgbroke, Esq. in Quarto, with a Map, price 11. lb's, in boards. TRAVELS from BRESCIA In ITALY to RIGA in RUSSIA, in the latter end of the Year 1806, including the Particulars-of the extraordinary Escape and Flight uf.Mrs. Spencer Smith, effected and written by the Marquis de Salvo, in one volume, small Svo. price 8s. in boards* Natural History. ANIMAL BIOGRAPHY, consisting of! authentic Anecdotes and Characteristic Facts of; the Lives, Manners, and Economy of the whole Animal Creation, collected from several hundred of the best Modern Voyages and Travels, and from expensive'and scarce works of Natural History, in various languages, aird ar- ranged According to the system of Linnaeus. By the Lev. W. Einglvy, A. B. Fellow of the Linnrean Society, and late of St. Peter’s College. Cambridge. In three volumes, Svo. the third edition, price 11. 10s. in boards. ■ T his work has been pronounced, bv various critics, to.be one of thr entertaining books in the English language, and the rapid sale of successive large editions proves the estimation in which it is help by naturalists, public teachers, and the public. The ELEMENTS of NATURAL HISTORY, according to the Linnaean arrangement, with popular and entertaining desi rptintis', in the manner of Goldsmith and Button; em- bellished with copper-plates, representing two hundred ot the most curious objects. By Dr. M avor. A new edition, price its. bound, ov with .the plates beautifully coloured, price IQs. ba,. bound. 1 Medical Science. The MEDICAL and PHYSICAL JOURNAL; published on the first day of every month, price hall a crown; containing the original correspondence of enimeiit practitioners, and the earnest information on subjects connected with Medicine, Surgeiy, Che- mistry, Pharmacy, Botany and Natural History. Conducted by Doctors Bradley, Batty, and Ahnbmam,BOORS PRINTED FOR It. PHILLIPS. N. B. The Former numbers of this Journal, which wore out of print, having been reprinted, complete sets, or any single nnm* ■her, may be had. The first fifteen volumes, containing eighty- eight numbers, may be had in boards, price 101. The first forty- six nun ibe!V sell at 2s. each, and the subsequent ones at 'is. -fid. cadi. Such is the variety, the value, and the importance of the information contained in the successive numbers of this original and invaluable Journal, that every medical Practitioner ought to be possessed of a complete set, and no medical Library can be deemed perfect wi.hdut it. A TREATISE on the ANATOMY and DISEASES of the EAR, with large plates, drawn from real dissections. By J. C. Saunders, Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. Thomas’s Hospital, and Surgeon to the Dispensary for Diseases of the Eye and Ear. Folio, Il.5s. An ENQUIRY into the CAUSES and PURE of DISOR- DERED RESPIRATION and CONVULSIVE ASTHMA: the Fourth Edition. By Robert Bree, M. D. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, London, Pec. &c. price Ss. in boards. OBSLR\ ATIONS on the Nature, Causes, and Treatment of INSANITY. By Thomas Arnold, M. D. Sec. Sec. 2 vols. Svo. price 13s. in boards. I he ELEMENTS of GALVANISM, in theory and practice. *>y C. W ilk: nsont, Fellow of the College of Surgeons, aud Lec- turer oil that Science, in Soho Square. In 2 volumes, Svo. with numerous plates, price ll. Is. in boards. MOTHERBY’s MEDICAL DICTIONARY, the Sixth edition, corrected, enlarged, and improved; to be completed in fair parts, forming two volumes in 4to with entirely new plates. The First and Second Part, price ll. -Is. each, sewed." 1 he NAVAL SURGEON, containing the entire Duties of Medical McnatjSea. By W. Turnrlll, Surgeon of the Navy &c, &c. with plates,. 9s. in boards. ' ' PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS on the DISEASES of LONDON in 179b, 1797, 179a, 1799, and 1300. By R. WIL- lan, M.D. F. A.S. Price 4s. (Id. A TREATISE on VACCINE INOCULATION: fo which ts added, an account of the CHICKEN-POX, the SWINE-POX and the HI\ ES ; with an Appendix, containing Letters from Phy- sicians and Surgeons, respecting the present state of Vaccination in many cities and principal towns of the United Kingdom By Robert Willan, M. D. F. A. S. No. &c. 4:o. with coloured en- gravings, 15s. boards. TREATISE on the Cause, Progress, and Cure of CONSUMP- TION, by John- Reid, M, D. Physician to the Finsbury Dis- pensary, 7s. boards.BOORS PRINTED FOR R. PHILLIPS. An INQUIRY into the Nature and Action of CANCER, with a view to a regular mode of curing that Disease, by Natural Se- paration. By S. Young, Member of the Royal College of Sur- geons, London. Price 4s. 6d. A TREATISE on the Process employed by Nature In suppres- sing the Hemorrhage from Divided and Punctured Arteries. By J. F. D. Jones, M. D. In one volume 8vo. with numerous plates, 10s. 6d. boards. A PRACTICAL TREATISE on DIETr and the most salu- tary and agreeable means of supporting life and health by aliment and regimen. Adapted to the various circumstances of Age, Con- stitution, and Climate; and including the application of Modern Chemistry to the culinary preparation of food. By William Nisbet, M. D. In one volume, 12mo. price 6s. boards. A SERIES of POPULAR ESSAYS on the Means of Pre- serving and Restoring Health, on a plan entirely popular. By Thomas Beddoes, M. D. In three volumes, 8vo. Price 11. 4s. in boards. SALUTARY CAUTIONS relative to the Treatment of GOUT, in reply to Dr. Kinglake. By John Hunt, 2s. 6d. The FAMILY .PHYSICIAN : or, DOMESTIC MEDICAL FRIEND ; containing plain and practical instructions for the prevention and cure of diseases, according to the latest improve- ments and discoveries; comprising every thing relative to the theory and practice of the medical art, adapted to the use of the heads of schools and families. By A. Thompson, M.D. Price 6s. boards, or 7s. bound. Trade and Commerce. The WEST-INDIA COMMON-PLACE-BOOK, being an Account of the present State of the Commerce, Policy, and Pro- ductions, of the West-lndia Islands, deduced from Official Do- cuments, by Sir William Young, Bart, M. P. 2cc. piice ll. 5s. in boards. Novels and Romances. GIL BLAS, newly translated by MARTIN SMART, and embellished by One Hundred exquisitely beautiful Engravings. In Four Volumes, forming one of the most elegant Books in the compass of English Literature, with Proof Impressions of the Plates, and printed on superfine post paper, price 2l. 2s.m boards. The Same Work,printed on smaller paper, with the same Hun- dred Plates, price ll. 8s. in boards. . N. B, Twelve Copies of the Proof Plates have been coloured in -the manner of Drawings, and these sets may be had, thus embel- lished, price 4l. 4s, each, elegantly bound. T. Gillet, Printer, Wild-court,. LincolnVImi-riekU. /* t( V vV'*' - V. •' • ‘ J ■■ (■" ■ ' - J ' "i ■ ■ *: r * *« ■ . ' . . A'V • ‘ t/ • • 'i ; 9 SI . • -- ,r\ vp m i yJU 1 ffU y ■ yi f- ■ ■ ■: ;7 r ;; ■d ■