17 elapsed, with the usual proportion of sickliness and mortality, blood- shed and slaughter, without any other step being taken to qualify the surgeons of the army and navy for their specific duties, than what was afforded to the civil practitioner. Of these even, it may be remarked, from the limited qualifications then prescribed, with the great number of medical officers required, the supply was rather stinted and penurious. At length, in the year 1806, when Lord Grenville was in office, it was deemed expedient to institute a pro- fessorship of Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh. * * * * # “ On the resignation of Dr. Thomson, in the year 1822, the pro- fessorship of Military Surgery was conferred on the author of the present volume, who forthwith proceeded, in the winter of 1823-4, to deliver a course of lectures. Dr. Ballingall had at first to contend with great difficulties, in consequence of a very general impression, that lectures on military surgery were superfluous, if not useless ; that all the necessary information was communicated by the teachers of surgery generally; and that even if instructions of this kind were requisite in time of war, the existence and prospect of a long period of peace held out little inducement to spend, in the acquisition of details which might never be requisite, time and money, which were urgently required for other professional studies. “ These considerations contributed to keep the chair long in the back-ground; and to a teacher of less perseverance and assiduity, might have formed insurmountable impediments. By persevering, however, in delivering annual courses of lectures,—by showing his capacity for the task—by collecting, digesting, and publishing what- ever information was pertinent to the duty of the medical officer,— and, above all, by making the course one not of military surgery, but military medicine and surgery, in the most comprehensive sense of the term, Sir George Ballingall has succeeded in obtaining for his department of professional study a degree of consideration which it probably never would have acquired by any other mode. In 1829 a favourable change of public opinion was evinced by the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, who had already prescribed two courses of surgery, allowing students to attend lectures on military surgery in place of one of these ; and last season, the heads of the medical department of the army and navy signified their desire that the course of military surgery in the University of Edinburgh should be allowed to stand for six of the twelve months’ study of surgery prescribed to candidates for admission into either of these divisions of the public service. C