12 and fully, and add what topics you think should be particularly dis- cussed in a course of lectures on Military Surgery. A. The plan of the course is in many respects excellent, and well adapted for instructing students with regard to the duties of medical officers in the public service. A course of lectures on Military Sur- gery, is, as we have already observed, extremely useful, inasmuch as it supplies that information which is peculiarly required by medical officers, and which can be but imperfectly communicated in a course of lectures, either on the practice of Medicine or Surgery. Among the many important topics which require to be considered in a course of lec- tures of this kind, the following seem to demand especial attention:— 1. The selection of recruits for the army or navy. 2. The means of preserving the health of soldiers and sailors un- der all circumstances, and in all situations to which they are liable. 3. The establishment, economy, and discipline of hospitals. 4. Military punishments, both coercive and corporal. 5. The peculiarities of gun-shot wounds. 6. Feigned disabilities. 7. The causes which permanently disable men for the public ser- vice. 8. The subject of climates in as far as regards health—Geographi- cal distribution of diseases—Medical Topography—Causes of endemic diseases. 9. Intertropical diseases. 10. Returns of sick, reports, military statistics. 11. Instructions to young medical officers regarding their general conduct, especially in relation to their superiors, their equals, infe- riors, and patients. H. Marshall, Deputy Inspector General of Hospitals. Robert Badenach, M.D., Surgeon to the Forces. Edinburgh Castle, 15th February, 1834. The same queries were submitted to, and similar answers returned by the following gentlemen, but these I have thought it unnecessary to reprint. Dr. White, Deputy Inspector General of Hospitals. Dr. Easton on the Half-Pay of the 15th Hussars. W. C. Callow, Esq., of the 6th or Inniskilling Dragoons. Alexander Copland Hutchison, Esq., Surgeon, Royal Navy, formerly Surgeon to the Naval Hospital at Deal. Alexander Cockburn, Esq., Surgeon, Royal Navy, Agent for Sick and Wounded Seaman and Marines at the Port of Leith.