15 vice, as the infantry, cavalry, or artillery;—medical inspection of re- cruits ;—the peculiar attentions which should he devoted to the care of recruits ;—the provisioning of troops. This is a very important subject, and deserves the most careful consideration; it ought, of course, to embrace fully, and in detail, every essential fact in regard to the quantity and quality of rations suitable in different climates ; as also the hours of repast, and the best mode of dressing the rations, and cooking utensils. The clothing of soldiers, in as far as health, comfort, and convenience are concerned ; connected with this topic is personal cleanliness, a measure intimately related to health. The construction of barracks—barrack equipment—hospitals—hospital equipment—general principles of military discipline—punishments — duty—amusements—marching—means of preserving health in the field—encampments—bivouacks—the embarkation of troops— the influence of climate upon the health of soldiers, and the best means of preventing hurtful consequences—the duty of discharging soldiers on account of disabilities, and of assisting in awarding to in- dividuals a recompense in proportion to the claims they may have upon the country. “ Dr. Ballingall’s work embraces a great number of the topics which we have enumerated ; and we trust he will find an opportu- nity of further extending it, and of discussing some of the subjects, merely glanced at for the present, more in detail. Dr. Ballingall will recollect, that he fills the only chair of Military Surgery in this country, and that to him particularly the army have a right to look for instruction upon the means of preserving the health of soldiers. His talents, his industry, his success as an author, and perhaps above all, his experience of the duties of a medical officer, in a tro- pical as well as in a temperate climate, eminently qualify him for the task. His present work does him infinite credit; it is full of important facts and observations, with which not only medical, but all classes of officers of the army ought to be intimately acquainted. We are aware that some individuals, even of the medical profession, endeavour to undervalue the importance of Lectures on Military Sur- gery, and the means of preserving the health of soldiers; the best conclusions we can come to on this point is to infer, that they never had any practical acquaintance with this subject respecting which they venture to give an opinion. * * * * * “ The Doctor evinces an intimate practical acquaintance witli the subjects discussed in these Lectures, as well as with the best authors who have written upon the means of preserving the health of sol-