AFFECTIONS OF THE ORGANS OF THE CHEST. CASES OF PHTHISIS PULM0NAL1S Name. 2S7 Brvce -292 CongaltOQ 293 Mitchell 296 | Campbell 29S Craig s; ■ 306 3. 3 SIS 323 331 332 344 34 3 3lo 345 339 361 373 374 376 379 380 885 386 3MI Lorage Murray Sutherland Pow Guun Elder Gunning Gun Penman Baxter Hay Bain Annandale Irving Carson Sineaton Shields Petrie Buchanan Sail Fisher Sex. Ago f. i 4$ f. I 21 m. j 52 f. | 36 2S 31 40 32 21 53 49 Occupa- tion. Duration of disease. Flax- Dresser Jeweller Image- maker Shoe- maker Jeweller Iron- founder Painter Porter Weaver Fleslier Joiner Washer- 399 403 412 117 418 419 421 439 451 462 Plank if. \ 49 Taylor 1 f. 1 S2 Rutherford I m. 1 36 arquhar f. I 24 46 4 484 494 516 517 519 529 Smith Intyre Lascelles Turnbull Hunter Johnston Harris 538 | 37 37 | m. j 58 | f. | 29 I f- 40 1 38 Hewing mason Servant Brewer Alexander f. 40 Falconer VI'Daid Kay Anderson Charles Finlay Wright Redpalh Davy 660 Ford 5C6 I Lench 21 f. f. m. I 36 m. 5 months 7 months months months IS months 2 months 5 months 3 months Cough for soru years 2i years l i years Cough for 15 months >ome years 3 weeks o months 3 months 3 months months 4 months 4 months 5 months Several years L year Not known, six months in jail 3 years Sy ’ mptoms. Affections Larynx and Trachea. Occasional haemoptysis; usual sual, p 120, resp. 60 Occasional haemoptysis; others usual Usual; pain of abdomen nausea and vomiting Usual Those of chronic latyn- gitis Nausea, vomiting, pain in epigast, others usual Usual, hemoptysis thick, rough, ulc. epiglot.destroyed partially A year nter cough S years 6 months nonths months Seyeral times in the hospital months Porter |l4 days [Hough from 3 years 'fid In 1 bad health for 5 months 6 veeks 16 days, at first __ igors Coiigh for more San a year m Usual Occasional voraitin; usual Hnemopt. at first violent, occasionally after, usual Pain of left side, much dyspnoea, p. 126 Epigast. tender, dropsy, died comatose Little expect., pain of chest, qough At first dyspeptic ; lne- mopt. others usual The usual copious lne- mopt. 2 days bef. death Dyspn. in parox. sound dull in left Usual, p. 150, bruit de pot fele at top of right Those of tabes mesen- teries, little cough Cough, diarrhoea, ah- dom. tympan. The usual Occas. hstnopt. dropsy, others usual Abdom. tumid, copious hemoptysis Insens. p. 120, dulness & crep. in upper of right Usual, much diarrhoea Much pain of left side, lalpitalions usual isy, palpita- tions \ Usual, acute pain of left, dyspn cel before death Pain in left side, lne- moptysik, oedema, Vomiting iof blood, of Sound, ocsophag. : ■- e constricted Through both both, most in left both right both both both eoalcscg. in up- per, miliary in lower both Through both both in groups both the middle of both yellow, cheesy the lower iobe of •ight both, more and larger in light both both Through whole of left and upper of right both, most in left Through left, in rami- groups in up. of rt. A few in both Hewing- mason Brass- founder Hawker ingests,main of side Usual Usual Those of i|i Asthma for some years, palpitations, dropsy Almost nocough, slight haemoptysis Usual, dittrhoea occa- sionally bloody 120, iesn. 28, no cough, much dyspnoea 40 46 Hawker Booksel- ler Bookbin- der Slatci | ro. I 25 | in. I 17 I f- | f. I 28 Pedlar Sailor ?ar after cold 6 weeks 9 months from cold 3 years, from cold 3 weeks t months 4 months Short time 4 months 4 months .Some years Usual, pain of throat Hcemopt- at first, usual Occas. hicmopt. aphonia. others usual Hicmopt.. others usual Hiemoptysls, dropsy P. 120, rejp. 72, great dyspnoea Pain of throat Acute , , The usual Ulcers in epiglot. larynx, & trachea Thicken. & ulcer- ation of lary The usual Usual, at dysentery Asthma, visual lust those Epiglottis and la- rynx ulcerated Lungs. Tuberculation. Yellow. I Grey. In upper lobes of both In left In both, most in left Very extensive in right Extensive in right Extensive in both In upper lobes of both Upper of both In upper parts of both In both dark, diffused round yellow tubercles In upper lobes of both both, most in left Throughout the right patch in left lower Through left, in starlike hard masses in right i whole right, iu form of whitish-yellow masses Throughout right, par- tial in left None In lower lobes of both Around tub. most in right In both In both Extensive in left Extensive in left In left In upper light Most extensive in left In right both Through left, none in right None Extensive in right In both ^ right, especially in lower lobe I masses anu single in both Through botll, most in left In right Tn both In both, gritty particles imbedded both Soft in right, hard in left None up. lobe of rt. light- yellow, friable; granular i both, in separate masses in right In both In both Tubercular infiltration in upper of right Through both Through whole of left anil upper of right In both Excavations. — Remaining Pulin. tissue. One large in upper of left, others smaller in rest and in right One large in upper lobe of left, ir- regular One large in upper left, with smaller in rest and in upper of right One size of orange in upper of right, smaller in rest In both, larger in the left One large in upper of right, smaller inferiorly in left Small through upper of both Large in upper of left, smaller in- feriorly and in right Large posteriorly in both, small an- teriorly Small in the apex of left Small through both, especially in upper lobes Small cavities in the tubercular de- position One large in upper of right, lined Some of the tubercles softened Large in the upper of left, slnall in n® . _ Sev. in up. left, 1 large contained a large vessel, canal pervious, l o rupt. Several ill left, two perforating pleu- ra, one in upper right Several in left, one in upper had burst In the upper of both, larger and more numerous in left One size of orange in upper of right, lined Numerous, irregular, not lined, in both Small, irregular in right None in either Hepatization in lower lobe of right Lower of right, hep. with bloody serum Lower lobe of right red and solid Tissue red, & con- tain. bloody serum Upper and lower parts of both lungs red and liepatized Lower lobe of right solidified Right loaded with serum Small, size of peas in upper of right One in right very large, fron apex to inf. edge, in rest & in lef small, Numerous in both, larger in the Mt Hepatization round tuberc. mass in left Small ecchymosed spots through light Red hepatization betw. tuberc. mass. In right around cavity Miliary, dissem. through both, some softened None Of nearly whole of left In both In both None In both Extensive in left and upper right In both In upper lobes of both Through right, and up- per of left Lower lobe of right, and part of upper left In both Infiltrated in right, cre- taceous, tub. puckering In lobular form, most in left In groups, bard in both In both, most in right In both, most in left In both In right Doubtful One large in upper of left, walls thin and perforated One large irregular in upper of left Small cavities in the upper of right One large in upper lobe of right, filled with pus Recent, from softening of the tu- bercles None One in upper and back part of left, containing pus with tuberc. matter Several in upper lobes of both, most in right In upper lobes of both, of various sizes In upper of left, one of size ot a fil- bert, round, containing cheesy matter In the upper lobes of both, one in right the size of an orange In both, largest in left Several in both, some of them gan- grenous In upper of right several small lined Large in upper lobes of right None Most in right In upper of both None Round yellow tubercles Extensive in right, in left none Most in left In apices of both None In upper of both, from size cl peas to walnuts, lined In the apices of both Numerous in the right Several in both Extensive and strong on both On the upper of both, very thick in left Universal of left, partial on right General, and firm of right Of both, extensive in upper of left On both sides At upper part in both Firm on left Strong of the upper of both Firm on both, most ex- tensive of right Extensive and firm on ;ht Partial, firm on right Of lower lobes of both On both, most extensive on left Of left strong Extensive of both, on left very thick Limited of the left Universal, and firm in left Leftinfiltratedwith bloody serum Mid. ofrighthepat. lower infiltr. serum Hepatization round the tubercles Red hepatization of lower lobes Red hepat. in lower lobe of right Red hepat. in lower lobe of right Hepat. between tu- berc. deposition Tissue between tub. red and condens. Redness of tissue between tubercles Adhesions. Pleurae. Effusn within. 3 lb. green-yel. pus in left Of air in left distending it Slb.serumwith lymph in left Serum andyel. lymph on both lb. of serum in each cavity Of pus in absc. bound by adh. Air, lymph, & serum in left Firm in upper parts of both Thick and universal on right Universal of left, right free On the posterior of right Universal on right, par- tial on left Universal and firm on -beth- irm over lower lobe of right In posterior part of right lung Universal of left, partial of right Strong of both Middle and upper of right On both sides firm Recent In both, most extensive and intimate ofleft Extensive and firm on both General of left, partial in right Tender adhesions on ight Extensive and strong on both sides Universal ofleft, confin ed to upper of right On both sides Of lymph and serum in right Air, lymph, & serum in left Of upper lobe of right Universal on right, thick and firm Old of both Partial on both Confined to upper of both Of both, most on left On both sides Universal of right Universal of left, partial of right Red and con- taining pus Reddened Tubes enlarg. and reddened -2 lb. ser. in rt, lymph in lower Of serum into both Lymph on pleura of right Lymph on low lobes of right Lymph on pleura of right Lymph pleura of right Lg. most affected. Reddened All tubes in rt. contain, blood Equally Left do Right do Equally do do do do do do Right alone Right Left do do do do Right Left Right Left Right alone Right Left Healthy do Patch of bony matter in mitral valves, otherwise healthy Large, cavities dilated, walls thickened Healthy Large globular vegeta- tions, J’oram. ovale open Right auricle and fora- men large Large, especially right adherent polypi Flaccid, 4 oz. ser. in peri- card. mit. valve indurat. Sound Distend, coats thin, internal reddened Distended Distended, coats thinned Sound Healthy Foramen ovale open, otherwise sound White spots on surface, sound Small, weighed 7 oz. Healthy — Redden eel Right alone Left do Right do Equally Right alone Left do do Right do Left do Right do , do do do Left do Right Left Healthy do do Hypertrophy with dila- tation of right side Healthy Large, mitral and aortic valves thickened Healthy Sound Healthy do do do Healthy do Large, flabby, foramen ovale open Healthy do do AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMINAL ORGANS. Stomach. Mottled Healthy Large, waxy Distend, coats thin, muc. at cardia soft. Large Large, dense, waxy Large scirrhous Blood ting.muc.coat ulcer in large curv. Healthy 4 ulcers in pyloric portion Softeningofmucous niemb. of cardia Red patches on mucus Distended with air Cardiac extremity softened Healthy Thinned in coats, cardiac end softened M em bi an e of cardia soft Liver. Glands (it lower part tu- bercular Enlarged glands at the lower part Ulcers in the lower part , Several ulcers in lower part Peyerian glands enlarged some ulcerated Ulcers in the lower part 3 or 4 |ulcers in lower part Nothing mor Large, pale, dark spots, fatty Firm Granular Large, pale, fatty Large, 7 lb. waxy Pole Pale, soft, greasy Large, cirrhotic cont. a few tuberc. Large, granular Small, hard, dark- yellow, granular Large, hard, mot- tled Mottled Hard and granular Large, pale 1 Small Intestines. Nothing mor bid found. Small inflamed ulcers in commencement Extensive ulceration. A perforation in coecuni Ulcers in the beginning Nothing mor bid found. Annular ulcer in ccecura bid found. Glands of lower part en- larged and ulcerated Other org All the or Large ulcs.in lower part com. in glands of Peyer Large deep ulc. corresp. patches in peritonieum Peyerian glands enlarged Glands enlarged and tu- bercular Glands enlarged com- Tiicn&fl? uicwwwn No ulce Large Intestines. do Ulcers in commence- ment ans sound, gans healthy. Extensive ulcerations in the beginning Extensive ulcers,onede- slroyed ileo-coccal valve 1 or 2 ulcers in ccecum 2 ulcers in caput ccecum One large ulcer in ccecum Glands large, a few ulce rated Ulcers in beginning of colon Mucous membrane dark congested Several ulcers in the commencement Pale, large, lace rable Large, pale, fatty Pale, greasy Pale and soft Pale, fatty Pale and fatty Others A few ulcers in lower part Glands enlarged with commencing ulceration Mesenteric Glands. Enlarged Enlarged and tubercular Enlarged and tubercular Much enlarg. Extensive ulcerations A few glands enlarged, no ulceration Glands enlarged with- out ulceration 2 ulcers on lower part, one on valve sound. Ulcers in beginning Ulcerated patches in be- ginning Some enlarged glands Numerous ulcers Small ulcers in com- mencement Small ulcers in colon Other Organs, Partial thickening of capsule of spleen r A piece of bone J of size and shape | of patella imbed- 1 ded in the spleen 2 stones in gall- bladder Pus & lymph in rt. iliac fossa & pelvis f A white hard |ar- { daccous tumour between layers of L mesocolon A few tubercles in the spleen 10 lb. of serum in peritoneal cavity Kidneys granular Several lbs. of se- rum in peritoneum Tubercles in spleen Somewhat en larged Healthy. No ulcer Glands enlarged, tuber- cular Mucousj membrane red, roughened, no ulceration Ulcerated in lower part Cicatrix of an ulcer in colon Several ulcers Same appearance as ileum Extensive in colon Kidneys pale and granulur J Omentum adhered partially tort.ovary