18 “ In this manner, it may he observed, that the chair of Military Surgery in the University of Edinburgh, which has been the earliest establishment of the kind in Europe, may at length become the model of similar establishments in different countries. War and all its demoralizing and expensive consequences, are doubtless condi- tions not to be desired; and, if it were possible to cease to cultivate the military art, it would be infinitely to the advantage both of na- tions and individuals. Such anticipations, however, it is scarcely permitted us to entertain, in the present state of the habitable globe. War is a necessary evil; and it becomes both nations and individuals to be prepared against its casualties and calamities. If one institu- tion is more necessary than any other, it is that, the object of which is to diminish the number, and mitigate the severity of the various evils necessarily attendant on those engaged in military and naval duties.”—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 117* “ Surgery has been greatly improved within a brief period by the writings of the medical officers of the army and navy; and those entering both these branches of the public service possess sources of information which had not existed even twenty years ago. So great was the demand for military and naval surgeons during the late wars, that young men were sent out as medical officers who were as incompetent as it was possible for them to be. When they commenced duty they were incapable of performing the simplest operation, venesection excepted, and their incompetence led to the most fatal consequences in numberless cases. After the peace of 1815, the senior surgeons of both army and navy made such repre- sentations to the heads of their respective departments, as led to a total change in the education of future military and naval surgeons. The course of education was so much enlarged, that the highest testimonial of competency was required for the subordinate situations of the medical department. “ Military and naval surgery was now enriched by the works of Baron Larrey, Dr. Hennen, Mr. Samuel Cooper, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Hutchison, and Mr. Hammick, and by various essays contributed by Sir James M'Grigor, Sir William Burnett, Dr. Yeitch, Sir Andrew Halliday, Mr. Bacot, Mr. Marshall, Mr. Murray, Mr. Dease, Mr. Lindsay, and many others. These writers communicat- ed a fund of the most useful information, a great part of which was new, as it never had been noticed in the best standard works on