I() diers. Our limits will not permit us to extend our remarks upon this valuable publication; we shall therefore conclude by observing, that it ought to be in the possession of every medical officer of the army, and that commanding officers should be intimately acquainted with its pages.”—United Service Journal, vol. ii. pp. 733 and 737- Extracts from Reviews of Sir George Ballingall’s “ Outlines if Military Surgery “ The idea of a school of Military Surgery appears to have oc- curred with great force to the original mind of the late Mr. John Bell of this city. Zealously devoted, for a whole lifetime, to the study of surgery, and especially to the operative department, that gentleman, with his characteristic enthusiasm and desire for im- provement, repaired to Yarmouth, in the autumn of 1797» to wit- ness, in the Naval Hospital there, the treatment of the wounded sea- men after the battle of Camperdown. It is probable that Mr. Bell saw much adventitious, as well as necessary suffering, in these men ; for he expresses himself as if he saw great room for improvement in the education of the persons intrusted with the care of the wounded. The general result of this visit was, the conviction in the mind of Mr. Bell of the necessity of the establishment of a general school of military surgery, in which officers destined for the public service in the army or navy might be taught all those principles and rules ■which might afterwards enable them to perform their duties in a manner satisfactory to themselves and useful to their country. He therefore addressed to Earl Spencer, then First Lord of the Admi- ralty, a memoir, dated from Yarmouth, 1793, in which he explains the reasons requiring the institution of one great school of military surgery, shows how beneficial it might be expected to be, and ex- plains the duties which he conceives belong to the Professor of mi- litary surgery. •x- * # * * “ Of the result of Mr. Bell’s suggestions to government we are not informed ; and several years of naval and military warlike ope- rations, with the single exception of the short-lived peace of Amiens,