n Extracts from Reviews of Dr. Ballingall's Introductory Lectures to his course of Military Surgery. “ Upon duty in either service, the practice of medicine is the de- partment in which the army or navy surgeon is mostly called upon to exercise his professional skill, even during war, and in peace al- most entirely so. During war, however, he has not unfrequently to add to these medical duties the more serious and anxious one of the experienced operating surgeon, and in situations, too, the most un- propitious—very different, indeed, from the accommodation afford- ed in the theatre of a London or Edinburgh hospital. The military surgeon is frequently called upon to perform some of the most diffi- cult and hazardous operations on the field of battle, possibly under a scorching sun, or exposed to the utmost inclemencies of the wea- ther, to say nothing of the difficulties and danger in transporting those brave men afterwards over bad roads to considerable dis- tances. # * * * * * “ We say, unhesitatingly, of these Lectures, that they ought to be in the possession of every medical officer in the king’s service, for they embrace subjects which never before formed part of a course of surgery in this country. “ The historical notice he has given of the rise and progress of military surgery is interesting, nor are we aware that the same kind of information is to be found elsewhere ; neither ought the author’s judicious remarks on the site of camps and hospitals, and on the transport of the sick and wounded, to be passed unnoticed.”—Lon- don Medical Gazette, vol. vi. p. 950. <f We congratulate the army on the publication of these Lectures, which contain an outline of the measures which ought to be adopt- ed with the view of promoting the health and efficiency of an army. A complete code of instruction on this branch of the duty of a me- dical officer would embrace the following leading topics:—General principles of the recruiting of an army, including the period of en- gagements, &c. &c.—Minimum and maximum age of recruits ;— the qualities of recruits required for different branches of the sor-