f C&> \1:030106 004064266A MANUAL DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODYt lONDON PBINTED BX SPOTTISWOODE AND CO. NEW-STMET SQUAEE 'rfcOlCAl LI3RAHY. 1OF THE DISSECTION OP THE HUMAN BODY LUTHER ^LDEN, E.E.C.S. ASSISTAITT SMGEOIf OF, AND LECTUBEE ON ANATOSIT AT, ST. BAETHOLOMBW'S HOSPITAL ILLUSTBATED WITH NXnvrEEO-D-S WOOD ENGEAVINGS LONDON JOHN CHIJECHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STEEET MDCCCLXrf 695724TO THE STUDENTS OF ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL IN THE HOPE THAT IT MAY ASSIST THEM IN THEIR ANATOMICAL STUDIES BY THEIR FAITHFUL FRIEND AND WELL-WISHER THE AUTHORPREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. +- In this edition the author has most carefully revised the entire work. Considerable additional matter has been introduced. Many parts, which some students found obscure, have been entirely re-wiitten. The object of the author throughout has been to be as concise as possible, and to put the subject in as clear and practical a light as is compatible with the faithful handling of its natural difficulties. It is hoped that the work, in its present form, is adapted, not only for students, but for members of the profession who wish to refresh their anatomical knowledge. Most of the illustrations are the author's drawings from nature on wood; many he has taken from his own diagrams which he has found useful in teaching; others from photographs; and for some aPREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. VUl he is indebted to the able pencil of Mr. Grodard, the librarian of the hospital. The engraving has been accurately executed by Mr. Joyce of Bolt Court. P. S. — The author suggests that students will find a great advantage in colouring the woodcuts in light tints: the arteries red, the veins blue, and the nerves yellow. 54 Gower Street: October 1861.PEERAGE TO THE FIRST EDITION. If any apology be needed for the appearance of the present Manual, it may be stated, without any wish to disparage the labours of others, that the works of this kind hitherto published seem to the Author open to one or the other of two objections; — either as being too systematic, and therefore not adapted for the dissecting-room, or as obscuring the more important features of anatomy by a multiplicity of minute and variable details. In endeavouring to supply a presumed deficiency, the Author has made it his special aim to direct the attention of the student to the prominent facts of anatomy, and to teach him the ground- work of the science; to trace the connection, and to point out the relative situation of parts, without perplexing him with minute descriptions. A concise and accurate account is given of all the parts of theTREFACE TO TEE FIRST EDITION. X human body, the bones excepted, of which a competent knowledge is presupposed; and directions are laid down for the best method of dissecting it. The several regions of the body are treated of in the order considered most suitable for their examination; and the muscles, vessels, nerves, &c. are described, as they are successively exposed to view in the process of dissection. The Author has written the work entirely from actual observa- tion : at the same time no available sources of information have been neglected, the highest authorities both EngHsh and Foreign having been carefully consulted. His acknowledgments are especially due to F. C. Skey, Esq. F.E.S., Lecturer on Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's Hospital for many valuable suggestions. He is also much indebted to his young friend, Mr. W. Cltjbbe, for able assistance in dissections. Septembei", 1851. ERRATUM. Page 143, last line, for " thyro-arytenoid " read " aryteno-epiglottidean "A MANUAL OF THE DISSECTIOI^ OF THE HUMAK BODY. THE DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ]\Iake an incision through the skin, down the middle of the neck from the jaw to the sternum; a second along the clavicle to the acromion; a third along the base of the jaw as far as the mastoid process. Keflect the skin, and expose the cutaneous muscle called the platysma myoides. Between the platysma and the skin is a layer of adipose tissue, sometimes called the "superficial fascia." It varies in thickness in different subjects, but is gene- rally more abundant at the upper part of the neck, especially in corpulent individuals, in whom it occasions a double chin. The platysma myoides is the cutaneous muscle of myofd".'' ^^'^^^^ subcutaneous tissue over the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles; thence proceeding over the clavicle and the side of the neck, its fibres become more closely aggregated, and terminate thus:—The anterior cross those of the opposite platysma, immediately below the symphysis of the jaw, and are lost in the skin of the chin; the middle are attached along the base of the jaw ; the posterior cross the masseter muscle, and terminate partly in the subcutaneous tissue of the cheek' partly in the muscles at the corner of the mouth. The platysma forms a strong muscular defence for the neck2 EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. It is also a muscle of expression* It is supplied with nerves by the cervical plexus, and by the cervical branch of the facial nerve. Eeflect the platysma. Beneath it lies the general investment of the neck, called the " cerviccd fascia." Upon this fascia we trace the superficial branches of the - cervical plexus of nerves, the external jugular vein, and a smaller vein in front called the anterior jugular. These superficial veins are so variable in size and course, that a general description only is applicable. External '^^^ external jugular vein is formed within the sub- jugular stance of the parotid gland, by the junction of the tem- poral and internal maxillary veins. After receiving the transverse facial and posterior auricular veins, it appears at the lower border of the gland, crosses obliquely over the sterno- mastoid muscle (fig. 1), and joins the subclavian vein. A line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle would indicate its course. To trace the vein, during life, press upon it just above the clavicle; but do not be sm-prised if you fail to find it; it is sometimes wanting. Near the angle of the jaw the external jugular vein communi- cates by a large branch with the internal jugular : hence bleeding from the external jugular relieves congestion of the brain. Before its termination the external jugular vein generally re- * If the entire muscle be permanently contracted it may occasion wry-neck, though distoi-tion from such a cause is an exceedingly rare occurrence. A case in point is related by Mr. Gooch (Chirurg. Works), in which a complete cure was effected, after the failure of aU ordinary means of relief, by the division of the platysma a little below the jaw. The platysma myoides belongs to a class of muscles called " cuiancoits," from their ofl&ce of moving the skin. There are not many in man, except upon the neck and face, and there is a little one (jpalmaris brevis) in the palm of the hand. To under- stand their use thoroughly we must refer to the lower orders of animals, in whom they fulfil very important functions, by moving not only the skin, but also its append- ages. Por instance, by muscles of this kind the hedgehog, porcupine, and animals of that family can roll themselves up and erect their quiUs : we are all familiar with the broad " panfiiculus carnosus " on the sides of herbivorous quadrupeds, which enables them to twitch their skins, and thus rid themselves from insects. In birds, too, these cutaneous muscles are extremely numerous, each feather having appropriate muscles to move it.ANTERIOR JUGULAR VEIN. 3 ceives the supra-scapular, posterior scapular, and other unnamed veins: a disposition very unfavourable for the surgeon, because Cervical branch of facial n. ... N. superBcialis colli External jugu- lar V Anterior jugu- lar v DIAGBAM Ot THE SXIPEKFICIAI, NEBVES AOT) VEINS OF THE NECK. there is a confluence of veins immediately over the subclavian artery in the place where it is usually tied. In opening the external jugular vein, remember that the punc- ture should be made in the dii-ection of the fibres of the sterno- mastoid muscle. The fibres of the platysma^ divided obliquely, will be less likely to contract over the orifice. Anterior anterior jugular vein is situated more in the jugular middle of the neck, and is much smaller than the ex- vem. J. 1 • 1 ternal jugular. It commences by small branches below the chin, and runs down the front of the neck, nearly to the sternum: it then curves outwards, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and opens into the external jugular, or perhaps the sub- clavian vein. We commonly meet with two anterior jugular veins, one on either side; immediately above the sternum they com- municate by a transverse branch. D 24 CUTANEOUS NERVES OE THE NECK. The size of the anterior jugular vein is inversely proportionate to that of the external jugular. When the external jugular is small, or terminates in the internal jugular, then the anterior jugular becomes an important supplemental vein, and attains considerable size. It is not uncommon to find it a quarter of an inch in diameter, and I have seen it nearly half an inch. These varieties should be remembered in tracheotomy. Suj)eTfiGial absorbent glands are sometimes found near the cutaneous veins of the neck. They are small, and escape observa- tion unless enlarged by disease. One or two are situated over the sterno-mastoid muscle; others about the mesial line. Cutaneous "^^^ cutaueous nerves of the neck are superficial nerves of branfches of the cervical plexus : the plexus itself cannot ^^'^ ' at present be seen. It lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae, and is formed by the communications of the anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves. The cutaneous branches of the plexus emerge beneath the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, and take different directions. We divide and name them thus: (fig. 1), Cutaneous branches of , the cervical plexus. rAscending branches . . . j Am-ioiJo-pai-otidean. ° I uccipitalis nunor. Transverse branch .... Superficialis colli. / Sternal. Descending branch ... J Clavicular. (.Acromial. The aunculo-parotidean n. comes from the second and thii-d cervical nerves, and ascends obliquely over the sterno-mastoid muscle, near the external jugular vein, towards the jDarotid gland. Near the gland it divides into two principal branches, of whicli the anterior is distributed to the skin over the gland and the side of the cheek; the posterior ascends to the cartilage of the ear, and ramifies chiefly upon its occipital surface. Other filaments communicate in the substance of the parotid gland with branches of the portio-diu'a, or facial nerve. The n. occipitalis minor comes from the second cervical nerve. _ It runs near the posterior border o.f the sterno-mastoid muscle to5 CERVICAL FASCIA. the occiput, where it supplies the back of the scalp. Beneath the sterno-mastoid this nerve commonly forms a loop which embraces the nervus accessorius, and sends a branch to it. The transverse branch, called the n. superficialis colli, comes from the second cervical nerve. It passes forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle, and supplies the front of the neck. Some of its filaments ascend towards the jaw, and join the cervical branch of the facial nerve. The descending branch is derived from the fourth cervical nerve. It subdivides into three branches, which cross over the clavicle, and supply the skin of the front of the chest and shoulder. Of these, one, called the sternal, supplies the skin over the upper part of the sternum: another, the clavicular, passes over the middle of the clavicle, and is distributed to the skin over the pectoral muscle, the mammary gland, and the nipple; the third, named acromial, crosses over the acromion to supply the skin of the shoulder. Eeviewing these cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, we find that they have a very wide distribution: for they supply the skin covering the following parts, viz., the ear, the back of the scalp, the parotid gland, the front and side of the neck, the upper and front part of the chest and shoulder. . Look for this branch beneath the fascia near the angle Cervical - •iii in branch of 01 the jaw. It icaves the parotid gland, and divides into the facial filaments which curve forwards below the iaw : some of nerve. . . j ^ these join the transverse branch of the cervical plexus; others supply the platysma. Now turn your attention to the membranous invest- Cervical fascia^^ ment, called " cervical fascia," which encloses the several structures of the neck. In some subjects this fascia is very thin; in others, with strong muscles, it is proportionably dense and resisting. It is always relatively stronger in particular situations, for the more effective protection of the parts beneath; for instance, in front of the trachea, in the fossa above the clavicle, and below the angle of the jaw. It not only covers the soft parts of the neck collectively, but, by its inflections, forms separate sheaths for the muscles, vessels, and glands. It isolates them, and B 36 CERVICAL FASCIA. keeps them in their proper relative position. A lengthened description of its numerous layers would be not only extremely tedious, but unintelligible, without considerable knowledge of the anatomy of the neck. I propose, therefore, to give only a general outline of the fascia, and to describe, — first, its attachments at the upper part of the neck; secondly, its attachments at the lower part; and lastly, its intermediate attachments. At the upper part of the neck, the cervical fascia is attached along the base of the jaw, and especially to the angle, from which it extends backward to the styloid process and forms what is called the « stylo-maxillary ligament." It is also attached to the mastoid process, and the superior curved line of the occipital bone. At the lower- part of the neck, the fascia presents two clearly defined layers, a superficial and a deep one. The superficial layer is attached to the front of the sternum, and along' the clavicle. The deep layer is attached to the hack of the sternum and along the edge of the first rib: from thence we trace tiiis deep layer under the clavicle along with the axillary vessels and nerves into the axilla. The interval between these two layers is especially manifest immediately above the sternum; here it contains more or less fat and one or two small absorbent glands. The intermediate attachments of the fascia are to the os hyoides, to the transverse and the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae. A correct knowledge of the attachments of the principal layers of the cervical fascia is essential to a right understanding of the course which pus takes when it forms in the neck. For instance, suppose the pus to be formed at the lower part of the neck. If it be seated immediately under the superficial layer (which is ' attached to the clavicle), it may burrow beneath the clavicle into the axilla. But if it be seated beneath the deep layer (which is attached to the first rib), then it becomes a much more serious affair, since the pus may readily travel through the loose tissue by the side of the pharynx, and make its way into the chest, where it will probably burrow down the anterior or the posterior mediastinum, and produce the most disastrous results by bursting into the trachea or the oesophagus.7 STERNO-CLEIDO-MA STOIDEUS. Besides forming sheaths for tlie several structures of the neck, there are other piu-poses to which the cervical fascia is subservient. The firm attachment of its layers to the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle, forms a fibrous barrier at the upper opening of the chest, which supports the soft parts, and prevents their yielding to the pressure of the atmosphere during inspiration. Dr. Allan Biu-ns* first pointed out this important function of the cervical fascia, and has recorded' a case exemplifying the results of its de- struction by disease. Moreover, the great veins at the root of the neck, namely, the internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate, are so closely united by means of the cervical fascia to the adjacent bones and muscles, that when divided they gape. They are, as the French express it, " canalisees," and are therefore better able to resist the pressure of the atmosphere, which tends to render them flaccid and imper- vious during inspiration. But this anatomical disposition of the great veins renders them more liable to the entrance of air when wounded. The danger of this occurrence is well known. Many deaths are recorded, resulting from the sudden entrance of air into the veins during operations about the neck, or even the axilla. Sterno '^^^ sterno-cleldo-mastoideus arises by a flat tendon . cleido-mas- from the upper part of the sternum, and by fleshy fibres, toideus. froiia the sternal third of the clavicle. It is inserted into the mastoid process, and about the outer half of the superior semi- circular ridge of the occipital bone. Observe that the sternal origin of the muscle is at first separated from the clavicular by a slight interval: subsequently the sternal fibres gradually overlap the clavicular. The muscle is confined by its strong sheath of fascia, in such a manner that it forms a slight ciurve, with the convexity forwards. Observe especially that its front border overlaps the common carotid artery; along this border we make the incision in the operation of tying the vessel. Action of When both sterno-mastoidei act simultaneously, they etemo- draw the head and neck forwards, and are therefore °^ ■ especially concerned in raising the head from the recum- * Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. J3 48 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. bent position. When one sterno-mastoid acts singly, it turns the head obliquely towards the opposite shoulder; in this action it co-operates with the splenius of the other side.* On emergency, the sterno-mastoid acts as a muscle of inspiration, by raising the sternum, its fixed point being, in this case, at the head. The sterno-mastoid is supplied with nerves by the n. accessorius and by a branch of the cervical plexus. It has three nutrient arteries r an upper mastoid, a middle, and a lower. The upper mastoid, a branch of the occipital artery, enters the muscle with the n. accessorius ; the middle mastoid is a branch of the superior thyi'oid; the lower mastoid is a branch of the supra scapular. Anatomists avail themselves of the sterno-mastoid Triangles of ij.t-i,i ^ the neck. muscle, to divide the neck on each side into two great triangles, an anterior and a posterior (fig. 2). The base of the anterior triangle is formed by the jaw, its sides by the mesial line and the front border of the sterno-mastoid. The posterior has the clavicle for the base, while the sides are defined by the hind border of the sterno-mastoid, and the free border of the trapezius. The omo-hyoid muscle, which crosses the neck under the sterno- mastoid, subdivides these great primary triangles into four smaller ones, (1, 2, 3, 4. fig 2), of unequal size: an anterior superior, an anterior inferior, a posterior superior, and a posterior inferior. The direction of the omo-hyoid muscle renders their boundaries at once obvious. The upper part of the sterno-mastoid is traversed cessorius°" obliquely by a large nerve called the spinal accessory.! This nerve, one of the three diAd.sions of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves, arises from the cervical portion of the spinal * The single action of the muscle is well seen when it becomes rigid and causes a wry neck. Other means of relief failing, the division of the muscle near its origin is sometimes beneficial in curing the distortion. In deciding as to the propriety of this operation, we should be careful to examine the condition of the other muscles, lest, after having divided the sterno-mastoid, we should be disappointed in removing the deformity. t Nervus accessorius of "Willis ("WilUs, nervor. descr. cap. xxiii.; Opera omnia, Amst. 1682).9 NERVUS ACCESSORIUS. cord by a series of filaments from the same tract which gives origin to the anterior or motor roots of all the spinal nerves. It ascends Fig. 2. N. accessorius Digastricus . Os hyoides . . Omo hjoideus Sterno-mastoid muscle drawn aside. Splenius capitis. Levator anguli sca- pulae. Scalenus medius. Scalenus anticus. TRIANGLES OP THE KECK. through the foramen magnum into the skull, leaves the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, runs behind the internal jugular vein, passes obliquely through the upper third of the sterno-mastoid, and crosses the posterior triangle of the neck to the trapezius, to which it is distributed. The nervus accessorius supplies the sterno-mastoid, and, after leaving the muscle, is joined by a branch from the second or third cervical nerve. To find the nervug accessorius before it enters the sterno-mastoid, dissect deep near the angle of the jaw, and you will see it emerg- ing beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus, close to the transverse process of the atlas (fig. 2). The upper mastoid artery, a branch of the occipital, runs into the muscle with the nerve. Depressor • Let US now examine the flat muscles in front of the muscles of ^eck, which pull down the larynx; namely, the sterno-10 DEPRESSORS OP THE OS-IIYOIDES. hyoides sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid.* Eemove the and fascia which covers them; disturb them as little as pos- laiynx. gi^jig, and take care of the nerves (branches of the de- scendens noni), which enter their outer borders. At this stage of the dissection, reflect the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid from its origin : you will thus obtain a better view of your work. The sterno-hyoid arises from the back part of the hyoid?' sternum and sterno-clavicular ligament, and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides. This is the most super- ficial of the muscles in front of the neck. Notice that opposite the cricoid cartilage and the two or three upper rings of the trachea, it is in contact with its fellow of the opposite side. We cut in the mesial line between these muscles in laryngotomy. The sterno-thyroid arises from the back part of the thyroid steruum and the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the oblique ridge on the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is situated immediately under, and is much broader than, the sterno-hyoid. It covers the thyroid gland, and for some distance above the sternum is in contact with its fellow of the other side; the result of which is, that the trachea is completely covered by muscular fibres. The omo-hyoid arises from the notch in the scapula Omo hyoid. ligament over it: and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides near the great cornu. ' - .'"" This muscle is digastric; that is, it consists of two fleshy por- tions connected by a tendon. Pay attention to its direction (fig. 3). From the scapula it comes nearly horizontally forwards across the lower part of the neck, and passes beneath the sterno-mastoid, over the sheath of the great vessels of the neck; then, changing its direction, it ascends nearly vertically close to the outer border of the sterno-hyoid. Observe, therefore, that the muscle does not proceed straight from origin to insertion, but that it forms * The sterno-tyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles often present slight transTcrse tendinous lines. These tendinous intersections are quite rudiment,iry in man; but in some animals with long necks, e. g. the giraiFe, they are so developed that each depressor muscle is composed of alternations of muscle suid tendon.THE CENTRAL LINE OF THE NECK. Fig. 3. 11 ccipital a. . ypoglossal n. escendens noni n. . . id cervical n. jperior thy- roid a. . . d cervical n, drnmunicans noni n. . . rico-thyroid m I ternal jugu- lar V. . . ommon caro- tid a. . . Digastricus. Junction of my- lo-hyoidei. N. accessorius. Os hyoides. Fomum Adami. Crico-thyroid membrane. Cricoid cartilage Isthmus of thy roid gland. Trachea. Middle thyroid v CENTEAL XHra OF THE NECK. COUBSB AND EELATIONS OF COMMON CAEOTID A. an obtuse angle beneath the sterno-mastoid. Now the inter- mediate tendon is situated at the angle, and it is maintained in its angular position by a broad layer of the cervical fascia, which comes up to it from the clavicle. What is the object of this • peculiar direction of the omo-hyoid ? I think it is to keep tense that part of the cervical fascia which covers the apex of the luuo-, and thus to resist atmospheric pressure.f 12 DEPRESSORS OE THE OS-HYOIDES. Action '^^^ stemo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid mus- of tlio de- cles, co-operate in fixing the larynx and os-hyoides, e. g. muLTes. sucking, or they depress the larynx after it has been raised in deglutition. Again, they depress it in the utterance of grave notes. That the larynx is raised or depressed according to the height of the note may be ascertained by placing the finger upon it while we go through the gamut. Now these depressor muscles are all supplied with nerves (fig. 3 p. 11) by the " descendens noni " (a branch of the ninth, or hypoglossal), and by the " communicantes iioni " (branches of the cervical plexus). The descendens noni sends a separate branch to each belly of the omo-hyoid. They are supplied with blood by the stiperior thyroid artery. The thyro-hyoid arises from the oblique line on the ala hyOTd°' thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the body and half the great cornu of the os-hyoides. This muscle is a continuation of the sterno-thyroid. It is supplied by a special branch from the hypoglossal nerve. It covers the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the superior laryngeal nerve and artery as they enter the larynx. We are now about to examine the course and relations of the common carotid artery. But before we do so, you must particu- larly notice the strong layer of fascia which lies under the sterno- mastoid, and forms the imder part of its sheath. It is attached to the angle of the jaw, thence descends over and protects the great vessels of the neck, and is firmly connected to the clavicle and first rib. This fascia prevents matter from coming to the surface, when suppuration takes place by the side of the pharynx.' Eemove this fascia, taking care not to remove with it the de- scendens noni and communicantes noni nerves, which cross the sheath of the common carotid. Dissect out any absorbent glands which lie about the sheath of the great vessels. Course and The Common carotid arises on the right side from relations of ^]^g arteria innominata; on the left, from the arch the common t-p.j-.itj- r carotid ar- 01 the aorta. It ascends m front oi the bodies oi the cervical vertebrae, by the side of the trachea,13 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. thyroid gland, and larynx, as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and then divides into the external and internal carotid. Thus a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle to the angle of the jaw will nearly indicate its course. It is contained in a sheath of cervical fascia. In the same sheath are the internal jtigular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. The vein lies on the outer side of, and parallel with the artery: the nerve lies behind and between the artery and vein. Behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Lastly, along the vertebral column the sheath lies successively upon the longus colli _and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles, hf- , %^*t^ et^>^^ ^ Co^ At the lower part of the neck the carotid artery is deeply seated:—it is covered by the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and about two inches above the clavicle it is crossed by the omo-hyoid. Above this point the artery becomes more superficial, and is covered by the pla- • tysma, cervical fascia, and only slightly overlapped by the sterno- mastoid. Lying immediately upon the sheath of the artery we find the descendens noni and communicantes noni nerves. Above all, observe that the sheath is crossed by three veins, namely, the facial, the superior, and inferior thyroid, which empty themselves' into the internal jugular. This is the general rule, and we draw especial attention to it, because these veins are so liable to be overlooked and injured in the operation of tying the carotid. It is plain that it is easier to tie the common carotid above the omo-hyoid than below it. "We make an incision (three inches long) down the inner border of the sterno-mastoid; we cut through the pla- tysma and cervical fascia, draw aside the overlapping edge of the sterno-mastoid, and expose the sheath of the vessel. We then make a small opening in the sheath large enough to admit the aneu- rismal needle, and tie the vessel, taking care not to include the pneumogastric or descendens noni nerves in the ligature. In what In the first part of its course the left carotid differs left'carotM^ from the right in the following particulars : — differs from 1. It arises from the arch of the aorta, is therefore the right. longer and deeper seated than the right, and is covered by the first bone of the sternum.14 INTEENAL JUGULAR VEIN. 2. It is crossed by the left vena innominata. 3. It is in close relation with the oesophagus. 4. It is in close relation with the left recui-rent nerve. 5. It is in close relation with the thoracic duct. ^. . .^^ The common carotid at its division is often a little of the bulbous. / This dilatation is in some instances so marked, e^tid^ that during life I have seen it mistaken for an incipient aneurism. It is necessary to be aware that the carotid sometimes divides much lower than usual. Several times I have seen the division as low as the level of the cricoid cartilage. Internal '^^^ internal jugular vein returns the blood from the jugular brain. Leaving the skull at the foramen jugulare, the vein d'escends on the outer side of the carotid, but in the sheath with it, and joins the subclavian vein at nearly a right angle to form the vena innominata. In its course down the neck it receives the pharyngeal, occipital, lingual, facial, superior and inferior thyroid veins. Previous to its termination the internal jugular advances slightly to meet the subclavian vein, so that it lies on a plane a little ante- rior to the carotid. Besides which, the direction of the vein being perpendicular, and that of the artery oblique, there is necessarily a small interval between them at the lower part of the neck, more especially on the right side. In this interval we find the pneumo- gastric nerve, and, deeper, the vertebral artery. Here, too, on the left side, we look for the thoracic duct. The descendens noni (page 11), a branch of the nonr^'^^°^ hypoglossal, runs down obliquely over the sheath of the carotid to supply the depressor muscles of the os- hyoides. Trace the nerve upwards, and you will see that it leaves, the hypoglossal where this nerve curves round the occipital, or perhaps the mastoid artery. For a short distance the descendens noni lies within the carotid sheath ; but about the level of the os- hyoides it comes through the sheath, and crosses obliquely the carotid, from the outer to the inner side. Now the descendens noni is reinforced by one or more nerves termed communicantes noni (derived from the second and third cervical nerves). These15 THYROID BODY. communicating branches descend on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and form generally two loops in front of the carotid sheath. From these loops the nerves proceed to the depressor muscles of the larynx. In some subjects the descendens noni seems to be wanting ; but look carefully and you wiir probably discover it concealed m^Am the carotid sheath: in such case the reinforcing loops from the cervical nerves will be found behind the internal jugular vein. Let us now examine the thyroid body, and in order to expose it, let us reflect the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles from their insertions so that they can be replaced if necessary. Afterwards we will examine the absorbent glands of the neck, and then survey the objects in the central line of the neck, from the jaw to the sternum. This very vascular gland-like substance lies over the boc^°^'^ front and sides of the upper part of the trachea, and ex- tends upwards on each side of the larynx. It consists ot two lateral lobes, connected a little below the cricoid cartilage by a transverse portion called the " isthmus." Each lobe is conical, with the base opposite the sixth or seventh ring of the trachea, and the apex by the side of the thyroid cartilage. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoid and thjToid muscles; its deep surface clasps the sides of the trachea and larynx, and usually extends so far backwards as to be in contact with the pharynx. Its external border overlaps, in most cases partially, but sometimes completely, the common carotid artery, particularly on the right side ; and there are instances in which the lobe is deeply grooved by the vessel. The isthmus lies over the 2rd, 3rd, and 4th rings of the trachea. This portion of the organ varies much in its dimensions. In some instances there is no transverse portion. This corresponds with the normal disposition in most of the lower orders of mammalia ; but in man it is a failure in the union of the two halves by which the organ is originally deve] oped. Grenerally, the vertical measure- ment of the isthmus is about one inch. Between its upper border and the cricoid cartilage is a space about four or five lines in extent16 THYROID BODY. where the ticachea is free; this space therefore is the more prefer- able situation for tracheotomy. But the vertical measurement of this isthmus is sometimes of very considerable length. I have seen it covering the trachea almost down to the sternum.* The thyroid body is closely connected, by fibrous tissue, to the sides of the trachea and cricoid cartilage. This explains why it rises and falls with the larynx in deglutition. Taken as a whole, the thyroid varies in size in different indi- viduals and at different periods of life. It is relatively larger in the child than the adult, in the female than the male. In old age it diminishes in size, becomes firmer, and occasionally contains earthy matter. But by far the most notable considerations in respect to the thyroid body are the number, the large size, and the free inoscula- tions of its blood-vessels. In fact, it appears to be composed of a tissue of arteries and veins. The superior thyroid arteries come from the external carotid and enter the front surface of the apex of each lobe; the inferior thyroid come from the subclavian, and enter the under surface of the base. An artery, called the middle thyroid, is observed in some subjects; it comes from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, and ascends directly in front of the trachea to the isthmus. Its veins are equally large, and form a plexus upon it. The superior and inferior thyroid veins cross the common carotid, and open into the internal jugular. The middle thyi-oid veins.descend over the front of the trachea, communicate freely with each other, * From the upper part of the istlimiis, or from the adjacent border of either lobe, most commonly the left, a conical prolongation of the thyroid body, called " the pyramid," fi-equently ascends in front of the crico-thyroid membrane, as high as the " pomnm Adami," and is connected to the body of the os-hyoides by flbrons tissue. In some subjects we may observe a few muscular fibres passing ft-om the os-hyoide3 to the pyramid. This constitutes the "levator glandule thyroidea;" (see preparation in Museimi of St. Earth. Hosp., Patholog. Series, No. 14,) of some anatomists. There are instances in which the pyramid is double ; and lastly, I have seen a considerable portion of this thyroid substance lying over the crico-thj-roid membrane, completely isolated from the rest of the organ. These vai-ieties deserve the notice of the surgeon, because any one portion of this structui-c may become enlarged independent of the rest, and occasion a bronchocele.17 THYROID BODY. and terminate in the left vena innominata. When you perform tracheotomy, bear in mind the size of these middle thyroid veins, and the possible existence of a middle thyroid artery. Its nerves are furnished by the laryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric and the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. They accom- pany the ai'teries. Structure of '^'^^ thyroid body is invested by a thin covering of the thyroid condensed areolar tissue, which penetrates into it and '^°^y- divides it into lobes. It consists of a multitude of vesicles which do not communicate with each other, and vary in size. Some of them may be recognised with the naked eye ; but the greater number require the aid of the microscope. In hyper- trophy of the gland we sometimes see them as large as a horse- bean, or even larger. They contain a glairy transparent fluid, full of nucleated cells. The arteries ramify most minutely upon their walls. Of its function nothing is with certainty known. The presumption is that it is concerned in the elaboration of the blood. An enlargement of the thyroid body is termed a " Bronchocele." If the relation of its lobes to the trachea and oesophagus be properly understood, it is easy to predicate the consequences which may result from their enlargement. The nature and severity of the symptoms will to a certain extent be determined by the part of the organ affected. For instance, if the isthmus be enlarged, difficulty in breathing will probably be the prominent symptom; and an enlargement of the left lobe is more likely to produce a difficulty in swallowing, on account of the inclination of the oesophagus towards the left side. An instance is related by Allen Burns in which the isthmus was placed between the trachea and the oesophagus. It must be obvious that enlargement of a part so situated would occasion most fearful difficulty in swallowing. I have seen two cases in which the lateral lobes projected so far inwards that they completely embraced the back of the cesophagus. Small absorbent glands are observed about the thyroid body, especially in front of the trachea; one is often situated over the 018 CENTRAL LINE OE THE NECK. crico-thyroid membrcane. These glands, if enlarged by disease, might be mistaken for a small bronchocele. jjg^p 111 the areolar tissue which surrounds the great cervical vessels of the neck, we meet with a series of absorbent gknds''"* glands, called the deep cervical. They form an uninter- rupted chain (whence their name glandulce concatenatce), from the base of the skull, along the side of the neck, to the clavicle, beneath which they are continuous with the thoracic and the axillary glands. Notice that some of these glands lie anterior to the common carotid artery, others, between it and the spine. This disposition explains the well-known fact, that, when these glands are enlarged, the great vessels and nerves of the neck are liable to beconle imbedded in their substance. The glands are particularly numerous near the division of the common carotid, by the side of the pharynx, and the posterior belly of the digastricus. The absorbents connected with them come from all parts of the head and neck. These vessels unite, to form, on both sides of the neck, one or more absorbent trunks, called the jugular. On the left side this jugular trunk joins the thoracic duct, or opens by a separate orifice into the left subclavian vein : on • the right it always opens into the subclavian vein. The contiguity of the glands to the great vessels and nerves of the neck explains the symptoms produced by their enlargement. The tumour may be so situate'd as to be raised and depressed by the pulsation of the carotid, and thvis simulate an aneurism. A careful examination, however, will distinguish between a real and an apparent pulsation. By grasping the tumour we become sensible that the rising and falling does not depend upon any variation of its magnitude, but upon the impulse derived from the artery; consequently, if we lift the tumour from the vessel, all feehng of pulsation ceases. Study well the parts in the central line of the neck the cen-°^ (fig. 3., p. 11). Beginning at the cliin, we observe the tral line insertions of the digastric muscles. Below these is the neck. junction or "raphe," of the mylo-hyoid muscles. Then comes the os-hyoides. Below the os-hyoides conies,19 CENTRAL LINE OP THE NECK. C 2 after a short interval, the pomum Adami, or notch of the thyroid cartilage. Below the thyroid cartilage is the cricoid. These two cartilages are connected by the crico-thyroid membrane. Below the cricoid c. is the trachea. This is crossed by the isthmus of the thyroid body, and lower down it is covered by the middle thyroid veins. Now the chief surgical interest lies just above and below the cricoid cartilage. We can feel this cartilage very plainly in the living subject. In laryngotomy, the crico-thyroid membrane is divided transversely. Eemember that the membrane should be divided close to the edge of the cricoid c, for two reasons:—1. In order to be far from the vocal cords. 2. To avoid the crico thyroid artery which crosses the middle of the membrane. If more room be required, the cricoid cartilage should be divided longi- tudinally. In tracheotomy, we open the trachea by a perpendicular in- cision, either above the isthmus of the thyroid body, or below it. The operation above the isthmus, if there be space enough for the introduction of the canula, is the easier and safer of the two ; for here the trachea is nearer to the surface, and no large blood- vessels are, generally speaking, in the way. The space available measiires from a quarter to half an inch ; and the isthmus is not so firmly adherent to the trachea as to prevent its being drawn downwards for a short distance. However, it is fair to state, that in one case out of every eight or ten, there is no available space. Tracheotomy below the isthmus, is neither an easy nor a safe operation, for many reasons. 1. The trachea recedes from the surface as it descends, so that just above the sternum it is nearly an inch and a half from the skin. 2. The large middle thyroid veins are in the way. 3. A middle thyroid artery may run up in front of the trachea, direct from the arteria innominata. 4. The arteria innominata itself lies sometimes Upon the trachea higher than usual, and may, therefore, be in danger. 5, The left vena inno- minata in some cases crosses the trachea above the edge of the sternum instead of below it. The celebrated French surgeonSUBMAXILLARY REGION. 20 Beclard used to relate in his lectures the following occurrence : — A student had fallen into the Seine, and was nearly drowned. As he Avas recovering very gradually, some kind friends attempted to accelerate the process by making an opening into the trachea. In so doing they unhappily wounded the vena innominata. Blood poured into the trachea, and the result was instantly fatal. Some siu-geons advocate the practice of dividing the isthmus vertically, in order to get at the trachea beneath it. Let such surgeons remember that an artery, which would bleed freely if divided, generally runs along the upper edge of the isthmus. The artery is a branch of the superior thyroid, and inosculates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side. Whoever paj^s attention to this subject in the dissecting-room will soon be convinced of the fact, that not only large veins but large arteries occasionally cross the crico-thyroid membrane as well as the trachea. Every winter session convinces me more and more of the necessity of cutting cautiously down to, and fairly ex- posing the air tube, before we venture to open it. When the platysma and the cervical fascia have been Dissection removed from their attachment to the iaw, the most of the , _ J ' submaxil- conspicuous object is the submaxillary gland. Ob- ^n^or serve that the fascia forms for it a complete case. the digas- Beneath the jaw we find several absorbent glands, of a"gle^" which some lie superficial to the salivary gland, others beneath it. These glands receive the absorbents of the face, the tonsils, and the tongue. A little dissection will expose a muscle called the digastricus, consisting of two distinct portions connected by a tendon. They form, with the body of the jaw, a triangle, of which we propose to examine the contents. And first of the digastric muscle itself. D" "Ifetricus "^^^ digastricus arises from the digastric fossa of temporal bone, and is inserted close to the symphysis of the lower jaw. .Raise the submaxillary gland to see the intermediate tendon of the digastricus, the angle which it forms, and how it is fastenedSUBMAXILLARY REGION. 21 by aponeurosis to the os-hyoides: observe also tliat this aponeu- rosis is connected in the mesial line with its fellow of the op- posite side, so that a fibrous expansion occupies the interval between the anterior portions of the digastrici. Fig. 4. DIGASTEIC TBIANGLE AND CONTENTS. The chief action of the digastricus is to depress the lower jaw But if the lower jaw be fixed, then the muscle raises the os-hyoides, as in deglutition. The posterior^ belly of the digastricus is supplied by a nerve from the facial; the anterior belly by a branch from the mylo- hyoidean nerve (which comes from the third division of the fifth pair).SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 22 The stylo-hyoideus arises from the styloid process devis°"^^°^" temporal bone, and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides. This muscle runs close along the posterior belly of the digas- tricus. Most frequently the digastric tendon runs through the substance of it. Its. nerve comes from the facial.'^ Its action is to raise and draw back the os-hyoides. The objects which we have to examine in the digastric tiiangle are twelve in number, as follow: — 1. Submaxillary gland. 7. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 2. Facial vein. 8. Part of tlie parotid gland. 3. Facial artery. 9. Part of the external carotid artery. 4. Submental artery. 10. Mylo-hyoideus muscle. 6. Mylo-hyoidean nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve. 6. Submaxillary absorbent glands. 12. Part of the hyo-glossus muscle. In the ordinary position of the head, the sub- Submaxillary maxillary gland is partially concealed by the jaw, gkmd^ when the head falls back the gland is more ex- posed. It is about the size of a chestnut, and is divided into several lobes. Its upper margin is covered by the body of the jaw; its lower margin overlaps the side of the os- hyoides. Its cutaneous surface is flat, biit the lobes on its deep surface are irregular, and often continuous with those of the sub- lingual gland. By raising the gland we find that it lies upon the mylo-hyoideus, the hyo-glossus, the tendon of the digastricus, and a portion of the hjipoglossal nerve, seen above the tendon. Mark these relations well, because they are of importance, as we shall presently explain, in tying the lingual artery. The duct of the gland (Wharton's duct*-) passes from its under surface, runs forward under the mylo-hyoideus, and opens into the floor of the mouth, by the side of the frenum it is about two inches; its dimensions are not equal throughout, for it is dilated about the middle, and contracted at the orifice. * Thom. Wharton, Adcnographia, seu glandidariim totius corporis descriptio. 12mo. Amstel. 1660.SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 23 c 4 Saliva, collected in the dilated portion, is sometimes spirted to a considerable distance out of the narrow orifice, in consequence of the sudden contraction of the neighboming muscles. An abnormal dilatation of the submaxillary duct is called a "ranula." It makes a tumor with semi-transparent walls, per- ceptible beneath the tongue. In some cases, however, what appears to be a " ranula" is in reality a cyst formed in the loose areolar tissue under the tongue, or an enlargement of one of the small bursas which are normally placed here. The facial vein does not accompany the facial artery. Facial leaves the face at the anterior edge of the masseter m., vein. ° . and then nms over the submaxillary gland, the digastncus and stylo-hyoideus and the carotid artery, to join the internal jugular. This is the rule, — but there are frequent exceptions. The principal point to remember is, that the vein runs superficial to the gland, and that we must be cautious in opening abscesses under the jaw. The facial artery is the third branch of the external Steiy carotid. It runs tortuously under the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus, and underneath or through the substance of the submaxillary gland to the face, where it appears at the anterior border of the masseter. Below the jaw the facial gives off the four following branches : — 1. The ascending palatine runs up between the stylo-glossus and the stylo- pharyngeus m. to the soft palate and tonsils, and inosculates with the descending palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. 2. The tonsillar runs up between the internal pterygoid and the stylo-glossus m, to the tonsil. 3. Glandular branches to the submaxillary gland. 4. The submental runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoideus m., turns over the chin, and inoscidates with the terminal branches of the inferior dental. It supplies the mylo-hyoideus, the anterior belly of the digastricus, and the sublingual absorbent glands. Mylo- Look for the mylo-hyoidean nerve near the submental hyoidean artery. The nerve comes from the inferior dental nerve. (before its entrance into the dental foramen), and running along a groove on the inner side of the jaw, advances between theSUBMAXILLARY REGION. 24 bone and the internal pterygoid m., to supply the mylo-hyoideus and the-anterior belly of the digastricus. The submaxillary absorbent glands receive the absorbent vessels of the face and the tongue. We often see them enlarged in cancer of the tongue and cancer of the lower lip. It is worth remem- bering that there are absorbent glands in the mesial line below the chin. The mylo-hyoideus arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge hyoideus. lower jaw, and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides. Between this and the symphysis of the jaw, it joins its fellow in a mesial tendinous line, termed a " raphe." Observe the posterior fibres only of the muscle are inserted into the os-hyoides { the anterior fibres successively decrease in length, and meet their fellow in the mesial line. Thus the muscles of opposite sides form a muscular floor for the mouth. It is supplied with nerves by the mylo-hyoid branch of the dental, with blood by the submental a. The muscles of opposite sides conjointly elevate the os-hyoides and the floor of the mouth, — as in deglutition. Stylo- This is simply a deep layer of the cervical fascia, ex- maxillary tending from the angle of the jaw to the styloid process, ligament, ^ broad sheet of fascia, and separates the sub- maxillary gland from the parotid. It is continuous with the fascia covering the pharjoix; this gives it a surgical interest, because it prevents accumvdations of matter formed near the tonsils and upper part of the pharynx from coming to the surface. The remaining objects seen in the sub-maxillary triangle, namely, the parotid gland, the external carotid, the hypoglossal nerve, and the hyo-glossus muscle will be described presently when they can be better seen. I wish now to call your attention to a little piece of surgical anatomy, which will enable you readily to find and tie the lingual artery. It is this : Suppose a horizontal incision to be made along the bodj'^ and greater cornu of the os-hyoides through the skin, the platysma, and the cervical fascia, you will come at once upon the lower edge of the submaxillary gland. Lift tip the gland, which can be easilySUBMAXILLARY KEGION. 25 done, and underneatli it you will observe that tlie tendon of the digastricus makes two sides of a triangle, of which the base is formed by the hypoglossal nerve crossing the hyo-glossiis m. Within this little triangle, cut through the fibres of the hyoglossus, and under them is the lingual artery. The first time you perform this opera- tion on the dead subject, you will probably miss the artery and cut (through the middle constrictor) into the pharynx. Pursuing the dissection, reflect the anterior belly of the digas- tricus from its insertion into the jaw: reflect the mylo-hyoideus from the mesial line and the os-hyoides, and turn it over the body of the jaw. Thus we get at the parts which lie under the mylor hyoideus. To obtain a full view of them, however, it is necessary to saw through the symphysis of the jaw, so as to be able to separate the two halves of it, and draw the tongue out of the mouth. This done, we have to' make out the following objects, represented in fig. 5., p. 26.— 1. Genio-hyoideiis. 6. Sublingual gland. 2. Hyo-glossus. - 7. Hypoglossal nerve. 3. Stylo-glossus. 8. Gustatory nerve. 4. Genio-hyo-glossus. 9. Submaxillaiy ganglion. 6. Submaxillary duct. 10. Lingual aitery. The genio-hyoideus arises from the symphysis of the hyoideus. j'^"^' inserted into the front of the body of the os- hyoides. This round muscle is situated in the mesial line, and parallel to its fellow. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is to draw the os-hyoides for- wards and upwards. The hyo-glossus arises from the body and great cornu Hyo-glos- q£ ^i^g os-hyoides, and is inserted into the posterior two- thirds of the side of the tongue. This is a square and flat muscle; its fibres ascend nearly per- pendicularly from origin to insertion. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action (with that of its fellow) is to depress the tongue. Observe the several26 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. objects which he upon the hyo-glossus, namely, the hypoglossal and gustatory nerves, the submaxillary ganglion, the duct of the styloid process . . Glosso-pharyngeal n hypoglossal n occipital a. Submaxillary gan- glion . . . . Duct of submaxillary gland .... Middle constrictor m. Liagual a. . . . Descendens noni n. Pig. 5. -Chorda tympani n. -Gustatory n. rrY~i Sub- .Jfi \ lingual i MUSCLES, TESSELS, AND NEETES OF THE TONBUE. submaxillary gland, and the sublingual gland. Beneath the hyo- glossus muscle lie the lingual artery, part of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and part of the genio-hyo-glossus. The genio-hyo-glossus arises by a tendon from the G-enio-liyo- ^^^^g^cle behind the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the os-hyoides and the tongue from base to tip. This is the largest and most important of the muscles of the tongue. It is fan-shaped, with the apex attached to the s}Tnphysis. From thence its fibres radiate into the entire length of the tongue. It derives, its nerves from the hypoglossal and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is various. The posterior fibres, by raising the os-hyoides and drawing forwards the base of the tongue, protrude the tongue out of the mouth ; the anterior fibres draw the27 SUBMAXILLARY KEGION. tongue back again. When every part of the muscle acts, it draws down the whole tongue, and is therefore one of the chief muscles concerned in suction. The stylo-glossus arises from the apex of the styloid glossus process and the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is in- serted along the side of the tongue. This is a long and slender muscle. It runs outside the hyo- glossus nearly to the tip of the tongue. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal. Its action is to retract the tongue, gypg The hypoglossal or ninth cerebral nerve, is the motor glossal nerve of the muscles of the tongue. It arises (by several roots) from the front of the medulla oblongata between the pyramid and the olive. It leaves the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, and runs down obliquely between the internal carotid and the internal jugular vein. Just below the posterior belly of the digastricus, the nerve curves forwards over the occi- pital, both carotid, and the facial arteries; it then crosses the hyo- glossus muscle, and divides into branches which supply all the ' muscles of the tongue, namely, the stylo-glossiis, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossus, lingualis, and the genio-hyoideus. As it curves round the occipital artery, the hypoglossal n. sends the " descendens noni " to the depressors of the os-hyoides, (page 11.) Besides this, it sends a separate nerve to the thyro-hyoideus. Wliile crossing the hyo-glossus, it communicates with the gustatory nerve. (Fig. 5.) The hjrpoglossal at its origin is purely a motor nerve. But soon after it leaves the skull, it receives communications from the first cervical nerve. These communications are important phy- siologically for two reasons : 1. They account for the hypoglossal nerve containing sensitive fibres: 2. They contribute the greater part of the filaments of the " descendens noni." Sublingual '^^^ sublingual gland lies immediately beneath the salivary mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Itjshape gland. oblong, with the long axis, (about an inch and a half) directed from before backwards. It rests upon the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and towards the mesial line it is in contact with the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus.28 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The ducts of the sublingual gland (ducts of Eivinus*) vary in number from seven to twelve. They terminate by minute open- in6;s behind the orifice of the submaxillary duct, along a ridge upon the floor of the mouth. The ducts of some of the lobes terminate in the submaxillary duct. The duct of the submaxillary gland may now be traced across the hyo-glossus, and under the gustatory nerve to the floor of the mouth. This nerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary, or ner've ^"'^ third division of the fifth pair. It descends between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle, and comes forwards along the upper part of the hyo-glossus, crossing at an 'acute angle over the duct of the submaxillary gland. Having reached the under part of the tongue, the nerve divides into filaments which supply the papillae on its anterior three- fourths. Look at the lower border of the gustatory nerve Submaxillary j^gfoj-g it crosses the Submaxillary duct, and you will ganguon. j :> j find a small ganglion, about the size of a pin's head. Like the other ganglia in connnection with the branches of the fifth pair, it receives nerve-filaments of three difi'erent kinds, viz. motor, sensitive, and sympathetic. Its motor root is the chorda tympani, which, though apparently a branch of the gustatory, is in point of fact derived from the facial nerve (a nerve of motion). Its sensitive roots proceed from the gustatory; and its connection with the sympathetic system of nerves is established by a branch which comes from the " nervi molles " round the facial artery. Thus provided with nerves from these sources, the gang- lion supplies the submaxillary and sublingual glands and their ducts. The lingual artery is generally the second branch Lmgual ar- external carotid. Curving slightly upwards from its origin, the artery soon rtms forwards beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, parallel to the ps-hyoides. At the anterior * Aug. Quirin. Eivinus, de Dyspepsia. Lips. 1678.29 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. edge of the hyo-glossus it ascends to the tmder-surface of the tongue, and is continued forwards to the apex of the tongue under the name of " ranine." The curves thus made by the artery are obviously for the purpose of allowing the elongation of the tongue. Observe that, imder the hyo-glossus, the artery lies upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx; under the tongue, it lies between the hyo-glossus and the lingualis m. Its branches are as follow: — 1. The hyoid, a small artery wliich runs along the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles. 2. The dorsales UngucB, two or more, which run iip under the hyo-glossus to the back of the tongue. 3. The sublingual, which arises near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and supplies the sublingual gland. .This artery generally gives off the little artery of the " freenum linguse," which is sometimes woimded in the operation of cutting the freenum in children who are tongue-tied, especially when we neglect the practical rule of pointing the scissors downwards and backwards. The lingual vein runs over the hyo-glossus, and empties itself into the internal jugular. I have already mentioned (p. 24) the best place for finding and tying the lingual artery. Of course, the rule laid down is trustworthy, only when the artery runs its normal course. I have known an instance in which a good anatomist failed in an at- tempt to tie the lingual artery, because the vessel arose from the facial behiud the submaxillary gland, and then passed throuo-h the mylo-hyoideus to reach the tongue.- The next object of study should be the course and relations of the external carotid artery, and its branches in the neck. In preparing a view of them, you will observe, that nearly all the veins lie in front of their corresponding arteries. Course alnd external carotid arises from the common carotid o?tlSi°ex- ^^^""^ "PP^^ °f tlie thyi-oid car- ternal ca- tilage. It ascends beneath the hypoglossal nerve the roticlar- posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus enters the parotid gland, and terminates near the neck of the jaw-by dividing into the temporal and internal maxillax-y arteries. ^ Notice the relative position which the external and internalBRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 30 carotids bear to each other. The external lies at first nearer to the side of the pharynx than the internal. But the external soon changes it position and crosses obliquely in front of the internal to reach the space between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The internal carotid, bear in mind, ascends perpendi- cularly by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull. The external is separated from the internal carotid by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The external carotid gives off the following branches — 1. The superior tliyi-oid. 6. The posterior auris. 2. The'lingual. 6. The internal maxUlary. 3. The facial. 7. The temporal. 4. The occipital. 8. The ascending pharyngeal. The superior thyroid is the first branch of the external Superior carotid. It runs beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, wte^'^ and sterno-thyroid muscles to the upper and front surface of the thyroid body, in which it terminates. Its branches are the four following : — 1. The hyoid, a small muscular branch, runs horizontally in- wards below the greater cornu of the os-hyoides. 2. The superior laryngeal branch, accompanied by the superior laryngeal nerve, runs beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, (sometimes the thyi-oid cartilage,) and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx. 3. The sterno-mastoid, a small branch variable as to origin and size, descends over the sheath of the carotid artery to the mastoid muscle. 4. The crico-thyroid, an artery of great interest in reference to the operation of laryngotomy, crosses the crico-thyroid membrane, and communicates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side (fig. 3, p. 11). One or two small branches pass through the membrane to the interior of the larynx. It is important to know that the crico-thyroid artery often varies in direction and size. In most cases it is small, and runs across the centre of the mem-31 BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID, brane; we should therefore be least likely to wound it in laryng- otomy, by dividing the membrane close to the cricoid cartilage. But it is by no means infrequent to find this artery of consider- able size, taking an oblique or a perpendicular direction in front of the membrane, and finally distributed to one of the lobes of the thyroid body. I have even seen several instances in which the membrane was crossed by the main trimk of the superior thyroid. These facts should establish the practical rule in la- ryngotomy, not to make an opening into the larynx until we have fairly exposed the parts, and ascertained whether any large artery lies in the way. Among the many arterial inosculations about the th3iToid body are two which deserve notice; the one is formed between the two superior thyroid arteries along the upper border of the isthmus, the other takes place along the back part of the lateral lobe between the superior and inferior thyroid. The superior thyroid vein crosses the sheath of the common carotid, and joins the internal jugular. The superior laryngeal nerve, mentioned as accompanying the superior laryngeal artery, comes from the ganglion of the pneumo- gastric. It descends behind both carotid arteries, enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx with common sensation. It is this nerve'which presides over the exquisite sensibility of the " rima glottidis." Before it enters the larynx, the nerve sends the " external laryn- geal " branch to supply the crico-thyroid muscle. Lingual The lingual artery and its branches have been de- artery, scribed (p. 28). Facial The facial artery and its branches below the jaw have arteiy. -been described (p. 23). The occipital artery is the fourth branch of the ex- aHe^^''^ ternal carotid. It runs backwards along the lower border of the digastricus towards the mastoid process. It then passes under all the muscles inserted into the mastoid process, namely, the sterno-mastoid, the splenius capitis and theBRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 32 trachelo-mastoid. Arrived at the back of the head, the artery runs superficial to the complexus and divides into wide-spreading branches for the supply of the scalp. Observe that in the first part of its course, the occipital artery crosses the internal jugular vein, and is itself crossed by the hypo-glossal nerve. It sends off the three following branches : — 1. The sterno-mastoid, which enters the muscle with the nervus accessorius. 2. The posterior meningeal ascends along with the internal jugular vein, and enters the cranium to supply the dura mater. 3. The princeps cervicis, wliich we shaU see better hereafter, runs down the back of the neck under the complexus, supplies this muscle and the semi-spinalis coUi. The occijpil^al vein usually terminates in the internal jugular. The posterior auricular artery is the fifth branch of Si'cX the external carotid. It arises above the digastric muscle, artery. ^^^^^ under cover of the parotid gland, to the furrow between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process. It supplies the back of the scalp and the cai-tilage of the ear. Its only named branch is the stylo-mastoid, a very constant little artery, which runs through the stylo-mastoid foramen to the tympanum of the ear. We find the posterior auricular nerve close to the r^tcSa°r artery of the same name. It is the first branch of the facial after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It runs behind the ear and sends motor filaments to the little muscles which move the ear, and to the posterior belly of the occipito- frontalis. This is what we should expect, considermg that the facial nerve supplies all the muscles of expression. This artery arises near the division of the common ph^wal carotid. It ascends towards the base of the skull by artery. ^^^^ of the pharynx, the upper part of which ifc supplies, as well as the Eustachian tube and the tonsils. The examination of the two remaining branches of the external carotid, namely, the internal maxillary and the temporal, must for the present be postponed. Meantime let us notice the cervical plexus and its branches, and then tm-n our attention to the posterior triangle of the neck.CERVICAL PLEXUS. 33 r, . T This plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the Cervical ^ •' plexus of four upper cervical nerves. It consists of a series of nerves. loop-like communications w^hich take place betvs^een these nerves, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrte. The plexus is situated behind the internal jugular vein, and lies in front of the scalenus anticus and the levator anguli scapulae muscles. The plexus gives off superficial and deep branches. The superr ficial branches are very extensive; these you have already traced, page 4. The deep branches are distributed to eleven muscles, as follow: The sterno-mastoid, the trapezius, the levator anguli Applied by scapulse, the rectus capitis anticus major and minor, the cervical the rectus capitis lateralis, the longus colli, the sterno- plexus. byoid, stemo-thyroid, and omo-hyoid, and lastly, the diaphragm. The cervical plexus communicates with the hypoglossal nerve, the nervus accessorius, and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. But the dissection of all this requii-es much time and care, and is of no practical value. Posterior '^^^ boundaries of the posterior triangle of the neck triangle of are, the sterno-mastoid, the trapezius, and the clavicle, t e neck. rjij^-^ ^j-jr^j^gig (jiyided by the omo-hyoid into two lesser triangles, an upper and a lower. When the platysma and cervical fascia are cleared away, you will find in the upper triangle (posterior superior) the following muscles proceeding from above (fig. 2, p. 9),—the splenius capitis, the levator anguli scapulae and the scaleni. You also find the de- scending branches of the cervical plexus, the nervus accessorius, the posterior scapular a. (transversalis colli), and its branch the super- ficialis colli, which chiefly supplies the trapezius. The posterior inferior triangle is by far the more important of the two, because it contains the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves. To this triangle let us now address our- selves.34 ANATOMY OF THE SUPEA-CLAVICULAR REGION. The arm should be placed by the side of the body, ttirsupra-°^ that the clavicle and shoulder may not be raised above clayicxilar their natural position. The space we propose to examine region. bounded by the clavicle, the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and the posterior portion of the omo-hyoid muscle. The area of the triangle thus formed will vary in proportion to the obliquity of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the extent to which the sterno-mastoid is attached to the clavicle: the trapezius must also be taken into the account, for in some j^nstances it comes so far forwards as almost to meet the sterno-mastoid. The depth at which the vessels and nerves contained in this space are situated depends not only upon the degree to which the clavicle arches forwards, but varies, as one may ascertain in one's own person, with the elevation and depression of the shoulder. Immediately beneath the skin covering this region we find the ■platysma myoides, some cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, and a layer of fascia which binds down the omo-hyoid muscle to the clavicle. Beneath this is a deeper layer of fascia, which covers the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves, and descends with them beneath the clavicle into the axilla. Between these two layers we meet with more or less fat and areolar tissue, and absorbent glands continuous with those in the axilla. It will be easily understood how a collection of matter, originating in the axilla, may ascend in front of the vessels and point above the clavicle, or, vice versa, matter formed in the neck may ti-avel under the clavicle and point in the axilla. Near the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle the external jugular vein passes through both layers of the fascia, and termi- nates in the subclavian: but before its termination it is commonly joined by the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular, and other un- named veins proceeding from the surrounding muscles; so that we have in this particular situation a confluence of veins, which are under any circumstances troublesome, and, when large or distended, exceedingly embarrasing.SCALENE MUSCLES. 35 D 2 The fascia and the glands should be carefully removed. The cla- vicle should be sawn through the middle, and the sternal half raised with the sterno-mastoid attached to it, so that the bone can be replaced from time to time in order to see its bearings to the parts beneath. Behind and nearly pai-allel with the clavicle is the supra-scapular (transversaUs humeri) artery, a branch of the thyroid axis. A little higher is the transversalis colli, or posterior scapular (commonly a branch of the thyroid axis) which crosses the lower part of the neck towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. But both these ai'teries, the last particularly, are very irregular in respect to their origin. The scalene muscles descend from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and the second ribs. The phrenic nerve is observed upon the surface of the scalenus anticus. The subclavian artery comes into Adew behind the outer border of the scalenus anticus, and continues its course over the surface of the first rib. The subclavian vein also lies upon the rib, but in front of the scalenus anticus. The large nerves constituting the brachial plexus emerge between the scalene muscles, higher than the subclavian artery. The scalene muscles, so called from their resemblance to a scalene triangle, extend from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and second ribs. They may be con- sidered as intercostal muscles, since the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are but rudimentary ribs. Anatomists describe them as three separate muscles— an anterior, a middle, and a posterior; the anterior and middle are attached to the first rib, the posterior to the second. In plan and purpose these three muscles form but one. Scalenus The scalenus anticus arises from the anterior tubercles anticus. of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the tubercle on the inner border of the first rib. Scalenus The scalenus medius ao^ises from the posterior medius. tubercles of the transverse processes of the six lower cervical vertebra3, and is inserted into the first rib behind the scalenus anticus.36 PHRENIC NERVE. Scalenus The scalenus posticus arises from the posterior posticus. tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three lower cervical vertebrse, and is inserted into the second rib between its tubercle and angle. The scalene muscles are important agents in raising the thorax, in a deep inspiration. Take a deep breath, and you can easily feel them contracting in your own person. They can bend forwards the cervical portion of the spine, if their lower attachment be the fixed point, as in rising from the recumbent position. The scalenus anticus is just one of those muscles about which we ought to know well all that lies in front of it, and all that lies behind it. In front of it, then, you see the phrenic nerve, the subclavian veiti, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries. Behind it you see the subclavian artery and the five nerves which form the brachial plexus. Make your finger familiar with the feel of the tubercle on the first rib, to which the scalenus anticus is attached. This tubercle is the best guide to the subclavian artery, for it guides you to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, where you are to look for the vessel. Is the scalenus anticus entirely concealed from view by the sterno-mastoid or not ? This will depend upon the breadth of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-mastoid. As a general rule, it may be said, that the scalene muscle is concealed by the sterno- mastoid, and that consequently, in tying the subclavian artery, it will greatly facilitate the operation, if the clavicular origin of the muscle be partially divided. The phrenic nerve runs perpendicularly upon the Phrenic scalenus anticus. Trace it upwai-ds, and you will find that it arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves; but chiefly from the fourth. It enters the chest between the subclavian artery and vein, close to the inner border of the scalenus, and continues its course between the pericardium and the pleura, in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm, which muscle it supplies. When the spinal chord is injured above the fourth cervical vertebra, the origin of the phrenic is implicated, and therefore the37 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. diaphragm, as well as all the other muscles of inspiration, are pai'alysed. Death is the immediate result.* COUESE AND EELATIONS OF THE SUBCLAVIAN AETEEIES. The left suhclavian artery differs from the right, not only in its origin but in the relations of the first part of its course. Let us therefore examine the right subclavian first, and then consider the differences which exist between it and the left. Eight sub- right subclavian artery is one of the two great clavian branches into which the arteria innominata divides ^t^^- behind the sterno-clavicular joint. It runs outwards behind the scalenus anticus, and then inclines downwards over the first rib, at the outer border of which it takes the name of " axillary." The artery describes a slight curve, of which the greatest convexity is between the scalene muscles. The height to which the arch ascends varies. Grenerally, it rises higher in women than in men, on the right side than on the left. To study its relations more precisely, .we divide the course of the subclavian artery into three parts: 1. the part which intervenes between the trachea and the scalene muscle: 2. the part which lies behind the scalene muscle: 3. the part which intervenes between the outer border of the scalenus, and the outer border of the first rib. The first portion of the artery is covered by the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid * The phrenic nerve is frequently joined by a filament fr-om that branch of the brachial plexus which supplies the subclavius muscle. It is important to be awai-e that cases sometimes occur in which this seemingly insignificant filament is a branch of considerable size, and forms the greater portion of the phrenic itself. I have met vnth. many instances in which this accessoiy branch was larger than the regular trunk; in all of them it crossed over the subclavian artery in the thii-d part of its coTirse, and would probably have been injured in the operation of tying this vessel That such an accident has actuaUy happened is recorded by Bransby Cooper in his surgical lectures. With his usual candour, he speaks of having injured this accessory branch of the phrenic in tying the subclavian artery. The patient had incessant ^ spasm of the diaphragm till he died. P 338 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. muscles, and a layer of fascia. It is covered by the confluence of tlie internal jugular and subclavian, and also by the vei-tebral veins Fig. 6. 3i d cervical n. 4ih cervical n. Pneumogas- tric a. . . 5lh cervical n. Brachial plexus Plirenicn. . . Line of reflec- tion of peri- cardium. Ccrvicalis ascendens a. Scalenus anticus. Inferior tli3'roid a. Superficialis colli a. Phrenic n. Posterior scapular a. Supra scapular a. Subclavian a. .Superior intercosUil a. Internal mammary a. Pneumogastric n. Phrenic n. Appendix of left auricle. It is crossed by the pneumogastric and pbrenic nerves, and some cardiac filaments of the sympathetic. Behind the artery are the reciirrent branch of the pneumogastric nerve, the sympathetic nerve, the pleura, and the apex of the limg.39 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. D 4 In the second part of its course, the artery lies between the scalene muscles. It is covered by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus, which separates it from the subclavian vein. In the thii'd part of its course, the artery lies upon the surface of the first rib* Here it is covered only by the platysma, and two layers of cervical fascia: and, what is of much more consequence, it is here crossed by the external jugular and (often) the supra and posterior scapular veins; so that we have a confluence of large veins in front of the artery. The subclavian vein is situated below the artery, but on a plane anterior to it. Above the artery are the trunk nerves of the brachial plexus. One of these nerves (the con- joined fifth and sixth cervical), runs so nearly pai-allel with the artery, and on a plane anterior to it, that many a surgeon has mistaken the nerve for the artery, in the operation of tying it. I once heard a hospital surgeon of great experience say, that he had seen the subclavian tied four times during life, and that in three out of the four cases, the nerve in question had been tied instead of the artery. The left subclavian is the last of the three great Leflsubcla- ijj-anches which arise from the arch of the aorta. It vian artery. ascends nearly vertically out of the chest, and then arches in front of the apex of the lung, so as to reach the inner border of the scalenus anticus, behind which it runs over the first rib. In the first part of its course, the left subclavian lies deep in the chest near the spine. It is covered on its left side by the pleura. On its right side are the thoracic duct and the oesophagus: the pneumogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves run nearly parallel with it: the left vena innominata crosses in front of it. "^Tien the left subclavian reaches the level of the upper part of the chest, it arches, like the right, over the apex of the lung, and has similar relations ; namely, in front, it is covered by the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles, and by the confluence of the internal jugular aud subclavian veins, and also by the vertebral vein : behind it, are the apex of the lung and the pleura.SUBCLAVIAN AETERY. 40 Behind the scalenus {inticus, and on the surface of the first rih, the relations of the left subclavian are similar to those of the right (page 39). The left subclavian, then, differs from the right only in the first part of its course. Now what are these differences ? 1. The left subclavian comes direct from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer, deeper in the chest, and more vertical than the right, which comes from the arteria innominata. 2. The left subclavian is in close relation with the oesophagus and the thoracic duct: the right is not. 3. The left subclavian is crossed by the left vena innominata. 4. The left subclavian has the phrenic, pneumogastric, and sym- pathetic nerves nearly parallel with it; on the right side, these nerves cross the artery at right angles. 5. The left subclavian is not embraced by the recurrent laryngeal nerve, like the right subclavian. The thoracic duct bears an important relation to the left subcla- vian artery. It ascends from the chest between the oesophagus and the artery, forms an arch with the convexity upwards behind them- ternal jugular vein, and terminates in the subclavian vein at its junction with the jugular. The duct is so thin and transparent that it easily escapes observation : you will most readily find it by searching with the handle of the scalpel in the loose tissue on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, in front of the vertebral vein. Before we trace the branches of the subclavian artery, let us consider some points relating to the operation of tying it. To tie the artery in the first part of its course, namely, on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, is an opefation of great difficulty and danger, even with the parts in a normal position. The great depth at which the artery is placed, the size and close proximity of its numerous branches, the large veins by which it is covered, its connexion with the pneumogastric, recurrent laryngeal, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, and above all its close contigmty with the pleura, form a combination of circumstances so forimdable that one cannot be sui-prised the operation has never been per- formed with a favourable result.SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 41 In the second part of its course, namely, between the scalene muscles, the artery is more acccessible. It would be necessary to divide the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus muscle, in order to reach the vessel; the iphrenic nerve and the subclavian vein would be the chief objects exposed to injury. This operation was performed first and with success by Dupuytren in the year 1819. More recently it has been performed by Dr. Warren, of Boston. The patient recovered, though the pleura was wounded.* But in the last part of its course, that is, on the outer side of the scalenus, the artery may be tied with comparative facility. The incision should be made from three to four inches in length, parallel with the upper border of the clavicle. We divide the platysma, some of the supra-clavicular nerves, and the cervical fascia. The external jugular vein must be drawn to the outer side, or divided and tied at both ends. With the finger and the handle of the scalpel we then make our way down to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, behind which the artery will be found lying upon the first rib. Eemember the tubercle on the inner edge of the rib which indicates the insertion of the scalenus: this tubercle is the best guide to the artery. It will be necessary to divide a layer of fascia which immediately covers the vessel before the needle can be introduced around it. Mr. Kamsden of St. Bartholomew's Hospital was the first who tied the subclavian in the third part of its course, in the year 1809; since that time the operation has been repeatedly performed and often with a favom-able result. In the hands of a surgeon possessed of a practical knowledge of anatomy the operation is easy, provided all circumstances be favourable; but circumstances are often very unfavourable. It often happens that the aneurismal or other tumour, on account of which the operation is performed, raises the clavicle beyond its natural level, and so disturbs the parts, that to expose the artery and place a ligature around it becomes exceedingly difficult. * Med. Chirurg. Trans., vol. xxix. p. 25.42 BKANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. Under sucli circumstances one cannot be surprised that even distinguished anatomists have committed mistakes. Sir Astley Cooper* failed in one instance. Dupuytren perforated the artery with the point of the needle, and included one of the nerves in the ligature : fatal haemorrhage was the result.f I '^as present at an operation in which the large nerve (a branch of the brachial plexus) which runs parallel with and on a plane anterior to the artery was mistaken for it and tied; the surgeon being deceived by the pulsation communicated to the nerve. The branches of the subclavian extend so far, that in fhe subda-^ the present dissection we can trace them only for a short •vian artery, distance. They are four in number : — 1. The vertebral. 2. The thyroid axis, which gives off inferior thyroid, supra- scapular, posterior-scapular, and cervicalis ascendens. 3. The internal mammary. 4. The superior intercostal, which gives off the deep cervical. The rule is, that these branches arise from the subclavian in the first part of its course. The most frequent variety is, that the posterior scapular (transversalis colli) arises from the subclavian m the third part of its course.$ This, the first and largest branch, arises fi-om the upper Vertebral part of the subclavian. For a short distance it lies in the arteiy. j^^erval between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli Here it enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ascends through the foramina m the transverse processes of the succeeding vertebra. In the interval between the axis and the atlas, recollect that the artery makes a sigmoid curve, in order that it may not be stretched in the rotation * London Medical Eeview, vol. ii. p. 300. t Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. XTi. 1820. „,f»^ I wth reference to the origin of the posterior ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ I made special observations d^iring the winter session of 1858-59. I found that this arTe™ gi-n off most irequently, not by the thyroid axis, but by -^<^;--; TZlirlv^tot its course. Under these circumstances the superficiahs colh a. generally came from the thyroid axis.43 BRANCHES Or THE SUBCLAVIAN. of the head. After passing thi'ongli the foramen of the atlas, the vessel curves backwards along the groove upon its posterior arch, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and unites with its fellow near the lower border of the " pons Varolii," to form the basilar artery. The vertebral artery is accompanied by slender nerves from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. These nerves com- municate with the spinal nerves forming the brachial plexus. Being intended for the brain, the vertebral gives off no branches in the neck, except a few small ones to the deeply-seated muscles; it furnishes, however, to the spinal cord and its membranes small arteries which pass through the inter-vertebral foramina. The vertebral vein does not come out of the skull with the vertebral artery, but is formed by small branches from the muscles near the foramen magnum. It descends in front of the artery through the foramina in the transverse processes, and joins the brachio-cephalic vein. It receives the veins from the cervical portion of the spinal cord. In some subjects it communicates with the lateral sinus by a branch through, the posterior condyloid foramen. The thyroid axis arises from the subclavian near the Tliyroid ^qj^q^ edge of the scalenus anticus, and after a course of axis. ° ' a quarter of an inch divides into four branches which take different directions; namely, the inferior thyroid, the pos- terior scapular, the supra-scapular, and the ascending cervical. The inferior thyroid artery ascends tortuously behind the sheath of the common carotid artery and the sympathetic nerve, to the deep surface of the thyroid body, in which it commvmicates freely with the superior thyroid. It gives small branches to the trachea, the oesophagus, and the larynx. The ascending cervical often arises from the inferior thyroid. It ascends in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, and terminates in small branches, some of which supply these muscles; others enter the inter- vertebral foramina and supply the spinal cord. The supra-scapular artery (transversalis humeri) runs outwards44 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. over the scalenus anticus, then directly beneath and parallel with the clavicle towards the notch of the scapula. Here it is joined by the supra-scapular nerve, and divides into branches, some of which ramify above, others below, the spine of this bone. It in- osculates freely in the infra-spinous fossa with the "dorsalis scapulae," a branch of the subscapular artery. The posterior scapular (transversalis colli) artery, though gene- rally described as a branch of the thyroid axis, more frequently arises from the subclavian in the last part of its course. It runs tortuously across the side of the neck (higher than the supra- scapular), over the scalene muscles and the great nerves of the brachial plexus (sometimes between them), and disappears beneath the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulae to reach the posterior angle of the scapula. It then runs beneath the rhomboid muscles, in which it is lost. In the space between the sterno mastoid and trapezius, the posterior scapular gives off the " superficialis colli." This vessel proceeds tortuously across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, which, with the levator anguli scapulfe, it principally supplies. You will very often find that the superficialis colli comes direct from the thyroid axis, while the posterior scapular comes from the last part of the subclavian. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries terminate in the external jugular, sometimes in the subclavian. The inferior thyroid vein crosses in front of the common carotid artery, and joins the internal jugular. This artery arises from the subclavian opposite to the Internal thvToid axis. It enters the chest behind the subclavian mammary. ■, ■, , -i xi -i vein, and descends behmd the cartilages ot the ribs, about half an inch from the sternum. Its further progress wiU be , examined in the dissection of the chest. The corresponding vein most frequently terminates in the vena innominata. This artery is given off by the subclavian behind the StercoTtal scalenus anticus, so that you must divide the muscle to ^ ' see it. It descends into the chest, passing over the necks of the first and second ribs, and furnishes the arteries of the two45 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. upper intercostal spaces. It usually \nosculates with the first intercostal branch of the aorta. The corresponding vein terminates on the right side in the vena- on the left in the Fig. 7. azygos; vena innominata. This artery arises Seal. the superior intercostal, seldom direct from the subclavian. It goes to the back of the neck between the first rib and the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and ascends between the complexus and the semi- spinalis colli, both of which it supplies. It sometimes inosculates with the " prin- ceps cervicis," a branch of the occipital a. If you wish to test yovxr knowledge of the branches of the siibclavian artery, reflect upon the answer to the following question: If the artery were tied in the first part of its course before it gives off any branches, how would the arm be sup- plied with blood ? The an- swer is,by five collateral channels, as follow: —1. By the com- mumcations between the superior and inferior thyroid • 2 By the communication between the two vertebral: 3. By the communi cations between the internal mammary on the one hand, and the mtercostals and the epigastric on the other : 4. By the communica- tions between the thoracic branches of the axillary, and the DIAGBAM TO SHOTV THE DTOSCULATIONS OF THE SXJBCXAVIAN AETEBY.BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. 46 intercostal branclaes of the aorta: 5. By the communications between the superior intercostal and the aortic intercostal. These inoscu- lations are shown in the diagram, page 45. Again, if the subclavian were tied in the third part of its course, the circulation would be carried on by the communications: 1. Between the supra-scapular and dorsalis scapulae (branch of sub- scapular) : 2. Between the posterior scapular and the subscapular : 3. Between the long and short thoracic on the one hand, and the internal mammary and aortic intercostals on the other. The subclavian vein does not form an arch like the Subclayian g^j-tery, but proceeds in a nearly straight line over the first rib to join the internal jugular. Throughout its whole course the vein is situated on a plane anterior to and a little lower than the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus,the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. It has a valve iust before its junction with the internal jugular. It receives the external jugular, anterior jugular, supra-scapular, and posterior- scapular veins. , The large nerves forming the plexus which supphes the SrS"^ upper extremity are the anterior divisions of the four nerves, i^^^ cervical nerves and the first dorsal. Emergmg from the inter-vertebral foramina they appear between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, and pass with the subclavian artery into the axiUa. To this bundle of nerves the name " p exus is ' given, on account of their mutual communications. The plexus ft its root is wide, and situated higher than the subcla^aan artery and nearly on the same plane ; but as the plexus de-nds — the clavicle its component nerves converge, and m the axilla, com- ^^tLXtaS^^^ muscle and by the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries.^ The a"an^ of the nerves in the formation of the plexus xs usually thus?- The fifth and sixth cervical imite to form a single Td; L eighth cervical and the first dorsal unite to form anc>the^^^ the seventh cervical runs for some distance alone and then dmdes so as to unite with the other two cords.BRANCHES OF THE BEACniAL PLEXUS. 47 The plexus gives off above the clavicle the following nerves: — a. Nerve to the subclavius muscle. — This proceeds from the fifth and sixth cervical, and crosses the subclavian artery in the third pai-t of its com-se. It frequently sends a filament which passes in fi.-ont of the subclavian vein to join the phrenic. b. Nei^es to the scalene and the longus colli muscles. c. Nei^e to the rhomboid muscles. — This arises from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and accompanies the posterior scapular artery beneath the levator anguli scapulfe, which, as well as the rhomboid muscles, it supplies. d. The supra-scapular nerve arises from the fifth and sixth cervical, runs to the notch in the scapula, where it meets with the corresponding artery, and terminates in the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus. e. The nerve (called exteimal respiratory by Sir C. Bell) to the serratus magnus, arises from the fifth and sixth cervical, appears between the middle and posterior scalene muscles, then descends behind the plexus and the subclavian vessels to the outer surface of the serratus magnus, to which it is exclusively distributed. /. Nerves (called anterior thoracic) to the pectoral muscles. Generally two from the fifth and sixth cervical; they pass beneath the clavicle in front of the axillary ai'tery. g. A branch forming one of the roots of the phrenic, arises from the fifth cervical nerve. It only remains to be observed that the upper chord of the brachial plexus receives a branch from the lower chord of the cervical plexus, and that each of its component nerves communi- cate by slender filaments with the sympathetic system. Below the clavicle the plexus divides into branches for the supply of the arm ; namely, the subscapular (three in number, to the subscapularis,- the latissimus dorsi, and teres major), the cir- cumflex (to the deltoid), the median, the radial, the ulnar- the external cutaneous, the internal cutaneous, and the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg).48 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Much practice is required to make a good dissection of the face. The muscles of expression are numerous and complicated ; they are interwoven with the subcutaneous tissue and closely united to the skin; their fibres are often pale and indistinct. The face is amply supplied with motor and sensitive nerves, of which the ramifications extend far and wide. Therefore you must not be discouraged, if in a first attempt you fail to make a satisfactory display of the parts we propose to examine. Make the cheeks tense by filling the mouth with horse-hair and stitch the lips together. Make an incision down the mesial line of the face, and another from the condyle of the jaw to the angle of the mouth. r +1,^ Eecollect that the nerve which supplies all the muscles of the face is the " ^portio dura," or facial division of the seventh cerebral nerve It emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and divides into branches, which pass through the parotid gland, forming a plexus termed the « pes anserinus." The sensitive nerves of the face are supphed by the three di- visions of the fifth cerebral nerve : namely, the supra-orbital branch, the infra-orbital, and the mental; each being named after the oramen in the bone through which it emerges No other nerve takes any share in conferring sensation upon he face excep^^he atuiculo-parotidean branch of the cervical V^f^\(V-^\ ^^^f^ Tpplies L skin covering the parotid gland and paxt of the cheeky The skin covering the cartilages of the nose is supphed by a smill nerv: ca led le naso-lobular. It is the terminal branch of Tnasal division of the ophthalmic nerve. It appears between the bone and ^^^^^^^^^ ,,,, ,e saw that some of the fibres of the platysma pass over the angle of t^e jaw an^^^ (Santorini). ^re prolonged as far as the angle of the mouth, ^liere thev intermingle with the orbiculai'is oris and other muscles in :SuTon.' This facial part of the platysma is termed «mus-49 MUSCLES 01* THE PACE. cuius risorius." It produces the smile, not of good humour, but of derision. It is convenient to arrange the muscles of the face under three heads; appertaining respectively to the mouth, the nose, the eye- brows and lids. It matters little which group be first selected. Begin with those of the mouth. The muscles of the mouth are arranged thus: there is an orbi- cular or sphincter muscle surrounding the lips ; from this, as from a common centre, muscles diverge and are fixed into the surrounding bones. They ai-e named elevators, depressors, &c., according to their respective action. Orbicularis '^^^^ muscle, nearly an inch in breadth, sm-rounds the orig_ mouth. Its size and thickness in different individuals, produce the variety in the prominence of the lips. Observe that its fibres do not surround the mouth in one unbroken series, but that those of the upper and lower lip decussate at the angles of the mouth, and intermingle with the fibres of the bucci- nator and other muscles which converge from different parts of the face. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is intimately connected with the lips and the surrounding skin; the deep surface is separated from the mucous membrane by the labial glands and the coronary vessels. The " orbicularis" is the antagonist of all the muscles which move the lips. Upon a nice balance of their opposite actions depends the play of the mouth with which every one is familiar.* This muscle arises from the oblique line of the lower anguU oris. J^"^ '^^^^'^ ^"^^ foramen mentale, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, intermingling with the zygomatic muscles. It is an important muscle in the expression of sorrowful emotions. We see its action remarkably well when children cry. * In strong musculai lips the upper pai-t of tlie orbiciilai-is sends a smaU sub- cutaneous slip of muscle from each side along the septum nasi neai-ly to the apex. The interva,! between the two slips con-esponds to the fimw which loads from the ■ noseto thehp. This is the ■'iia.o-labiaKs" or "depressor septi narium" of some anatomists, e.ff. Haller, Albinus. E50 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. This muscle arises from the oblique line of the lower Depressor labii j^w, and is inserted into the lower lip. It covers the ^^^^ vessels and nerves which come through the foramen menti. mentale. It must therefore be divided in the opera- tion of cutting through the nerve in cases of neuralgia. ^ ^ This muscle arises from the lower jaw below the incisor I^'^^^to^ teeth, and is inserted into the skin of the chin. To see it properly, you should evert the lower lip and remove the mucous membrane on either side of the fr^num. There are two of them, one for each side. Their action is well shown when we ^^^^^* The Z. major arises from the outer surface of the S'Z? m^lar bone, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, and miBor. • -^-^g depressor anguli oris. The Z. minor arises from the outer surface of the malar bone, and is mserfed into the angle of the mouth, joining the levator labii superioris. The action of the zygomatici is seen in laughing. Before we examine the orbicularis palpebrarum we must notice the tendo oculi. To make the tendon more apparent the tarsal cartilages should be drawn outwards. - * . , ^1, ^^a This tendon is about two hues* m length, and is Tendo ocuh. ^^^^ \,Qnes.\h the skin at the inner angle of the eve by drawing the eyelids outwards. It is fixed to the nasal ;roces' of the s^uperior maxillary bone, passes outwards, and dmdes ' Lo two portions, one of which is attached to the upper the other to the lower tarsal cartilage. The tendon crosses the lachrymal a a littleabove thecentre, andfurnishes ^tendinoj exp« covers the sac and is attached to the margin of the bony gioOve To see all this expansion we must reflect that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum which covers the sac. irprcturing the lachrymal sac the Imife is introduced belo^v the ten^n in a direction doiwards, outwards, and a litt ebackwai-ds. hi to divide the skin, a few fibres of the orbicularis, aud the fibrous expansion from the tendo oculL The aoigular artery and veiD are situated on the inner side of the mcision. » A Uuo is the twelfth pai-t of an inch.51 MUSCLES or THE FACE. E 2 This muscle arises from the tendo oculi, and from oculi'^'^^^^^ the inner margin of the orbit, for some distance above and heloiv this tendon. It is inserted into the skin of the browj temple, and cheek. This broad sphincter muscle surrounds the margin of the orbit and eyelids. Its circumferential fibres take a wide sweep, and mingle, on the forehead, with the occipito frontalis, on the cheek, with the zygomaticus minor, and the levator labii superioris. The fibres which belong to the eyelids (orbicularis palpebrarum), are thin and pale. They arise from the tendo oculi, and form, over each eyelid, a series of elliptical curves which meet at the external canthus of the lids. The degree of their curvature becomes less as they approach the margin of the lids, so that some fibres proceed close to the lashes. This was first pointed out by Eiolanus*, and described as " musculus ciliaris."t You will observe that no fat is ever found on the eyelids: nothing intervenes between the skin and the muscle but a quantity of loose areolar tissue, that there may be no impediment to the free play of the lids. The orbicular muscle not only shuts the eye but protects it. For instance, suppose the eye to be threatened by a blow, the muscle suddenly contracts, presses the eye back into the orbit, and contracts the skin of the brow and cheek so as to form a soft cushion in front of the orbit. The cushion itself may be severely bruised, as is seen in a " black eye "; but, how rarely the globe itself is injured ! When the eye is simply closed, as in winking, the palpebral portion of the muscle contracts. Observe this movement attentively, and you will see that the lids are dra^vn slightly inwards as well as closed. Now this inward motion is to direct the tears towards the inner angle of the eyelids, where they are absorbed by the lachrymal ducts. Since the orbicular muscle is supplied" by the facial nerve, it is affected in facial palsy, and the patient cannot shut the eye. * Antkropologia, lib. v. cap. 10. t Strictly speaking the ciliary muscle arises from tlie two little divisions of Ibe tendo ooiili, and is inserted, at the external canthus, into the fibrous tissue which unites the two tarsal cartilages.STRUCTURE OP THE EYELIDS. 52 , . Tliis muscle has been particularly described by Tensor tarsi. . -,, i i j i Horner*, an American anatomist. It should be con- sidered not as a distinct muscle, but as a portion of the orbicularis. The best way to see Horner's muscle, is to cut perpendicularly through the middle of the upper and lower lids, and to evert the inner halves towards the nose. After removing the mucous membrane you will see this little muscle arising from the ridge on the lachrymal bone. It passes outwards and divides into two portions which are inserted into the upper and lower tarsal cartilages, close to the orifices of the lachrymal ducts. It is probable that the tensor tarsi draws backwards the open mouths of these ducts, so that they may absorb the tears at the inner angle of the eye. ' This arises from the superciliary ridge of the frontal Si'^S'' 'boi^e and is inserted into the under surface of the ^"'^'"'"^ ■ orbicularis oculi. It lies concealed beneath the orbi- cularis, and is the proper muscle of frowning. This is situated on the bridge of the nose, on each nST™''^''^' side of the mesial Une, and is regarded as a prolongation of the occipito-frontalis. It mingles with the fibres of the triangularis nasi, and its action is to elevate the skin of the nose; for instance, in the expression of surprise. The present being a fitting opportunity to examine the structure of the eyelids, let us postpone for the present the dissection of the remaining muscles of the face. Strtjctube of the Eyelids. — The eyelids are composed, of different tissues arranged in successive strata one beneath the other. There are — 1, the skin; 2, the orbicularis palpebrarum; 3, the expanded tendon of the levator palpebrse (in the upper lid only) ; 4, the tarsal cartilage ; 5, Meibomian glands; 6, mucous membrane. These structures are separated by areolax tissue, which for very good reasons never contains fat. The skin of the eyelids is remarkably smooth and delicate. It is abundantly supplied with sensitive nerves by branches of the fifth pair, namely, by the supra-orbital, supra-trochlear, infra- trochlearj lachrymal, and infra-orbital nerves. * PliUadelpUa Journal, Nov. 1824. But this muscle was accui-ately desa-ibcd by Roscnmiiller in his Handbuch der Anatomic. Leipzig, 1819.53 STKUCTUKE Or THE EYELIDS. E 3 The orbicularis palpeb7'arum has been already described (p. 51). It is supplied mth nerves by the facial. The levator palpebrce arises from the back of the orbit, gradually becomes broader, and terminates in a thin aponeurosis, which unites with the broad tarsal ligament, and is lost on the outer surface of the tarsal cai-tilage. These are plates of fibro-cartilage which support and tUages. ' S^'^^ figure to the eyelids. There is one for each lid, and they are connected at the angles (commissures or canthi) of the lids through the medium 6f fibrous tissue. One can best examine them by everting the lids. Each cartilage resembles its lid in form. The upper is the larger of the two, is broad in the middle, and gradually becomes narrower at either end. The lower -is nearly of uniform breadth throughout. Both are thicker on the nasal than the temporal side. They are connected to the margin of the orbit, and maintained in position by the tendo oculi, and by what are called the broad tarsal ligaments: these ligaments are continuations from the periosteum of the orbit to the tarsal cartilages. There are two of them, termed upper and lower, and proceeding to each cartilage respectively. When an abscess forms, which is not uncommon after erysipelas, in the areolar tissue of the lids, these ligaments prevent the matter from making its way into the orbit. The ciHary margin is the thickest part of the tarsal cartilages. It is generally stated that the inner edge of each is sloped or beveled off; and that, consequently, when the lids are closed, there is formed, with the globe of the eye, a triangular channel. This channel is said to conduct the tears to the puncta lacrymalia. According to my observation, this triangular channel does not exist: for when the lids are closed, their margins are in such accurate apposition, that not the slightest interstice can be discovered between them. The pimcta lacrymalia are two pin-holes apertures, easily dis- covered at the inner angles of the lids. They are the orifices of the canals which convey the tears to the lachrymal sac. Observe that their orifices are directed backwards. In the introduction of probes for the purpose of opening the con^STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. 54 tracted puncta, or of slitting up the lachrymal duct, it is necessary to know the exact direction of these tubes. {See diagram.) By passing a bristle into one of them, we find that it does not run straight from the punctum to the sac, but that it proceeds for a shoi-t distance perpendicularly, and then, dilating into a small pouch, makes a sharp bend inwards to the lachrymal sac. In the majority of cases, the tubes open into the sac by a common orifice. When, from any cause, the tears are secreted in greater quantity than usual, they overflow and trickle down the cheek. The eyelashes (cilia) are planted in rows along the edge of the tarsal car- tilages. The bulbs of the lashes are situated between the tarsal cartilage and the fibres of the ciliary muscle. They are supplied with blood by the palpebral branches of the ophthalmic which run paraUel and close to the free borders of the lids xmder the ciliary muscle These sebaceous glands, so called after the anatomist* who first described them, are situated on the under surface of each of the tarsal cartilages. In the upper lid there are from thirty to forty of them, not so many m the lower. On everting the lid, they are seen rumimg in longi- udinaT rows in grooves of the cartilage. Examined with he mfcroscopeyone seS that they consist of a central tube, round the Tes of wiich are a number of openings leading to short c^cal S^ltionl The orifices of these glands are situated on the free mlSn 0 the lid behind the lashes. Their use is to secrete an r tul substance, which prevents the lids ^^^^^ This name is given to a smaU reddish body situated at Carmicul.a -^^g,. corner of the eye. It is composed of an lacryn^ahs. ^^^..^ous glands covered by mucous membrane. In some instances minute hairs grow upon .t. AVhat is the use of this caruncula? Probably to suppoit the inner * TI. McilDom, De vasis palpebrarum'no^-is, Holmstcdt, 1666. Meibomian glands.STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. 55 junction of the eyelids. When the caruncle is diminished in size by disease, the puncta lacrymalia become displaced, and the tears are apt to run down the cheek. The conjimctival coat of the eyelid will be described with the anatomy of the eye. We merely observe at present, that it is more vascular than the conjunctival coat of the eye, and that it presents a number of minute papillae, which, when enlarged and aggregated by inflammation, give rise to the disease called "granular lids." Such, in outhne,^ is the structure of the eyelids. Their use is best described by Socrates, who, in answer to the question whether animals were made by chance or design, replies: — " Think you not that it looks like the work of prescience, because the sight is delicate, to have guai-ded it with eyelids, which open when we want to see, but shut when we go to sleep; to have fenced these lids with eyelashes, which, like a sieve, strain the dusty wind, and hinder it from hurting the eyes; and over the eyes to have placed eyebrows, as eaves, to carry off the sweat of the brow from distm'b- ing the sight ? " * After this digression, let us proceed with the dissection of the muscles of the face, and raise the lower circumference of the orbicularis oculi, in order to see the origin of the elevators of the tapper lip and the nose. This arises from the superior maxillary bone near its -Levator i • i . . ■ 7 . . labii supe- Orbital margin, and is %nserted into the side of the nonsalse- nose and upper lip. It acts chiefly in expressing the que nasi. . ^\ ^ J r s> smile of derision, and the scornful afi"ections of the mind. Its habitual use occasions corresponding permanent folds in the skin, which are, to a certain extent, indicative of the feelings and passions. Levator This arises from the margin of the orbit above the rioris!*"^^" infra-orbital foramen, and is inserted into the upper * Xenophon's Memorabilia, b. 1. c. iv.: Ou Soicit aoi koX rSSe irpovolas (pycfi loiKeVai, TO, iirel atrBev^s /uec icTTtv fi S<|/is, jSAeiJbapois aMjv Bvp&ffai, &, '6ra' /Mev avrrj xP^cSof ti 5«7j, avaTTiTavvvrai, iv Se T^i (iTrv(f avyKXiierai; iis 8' h/ /tijS^ Sve^ioi ^Ka-KTOKTiv, T^Ofxhu fi\e(paplSas iix(pv(rai- ocppvcri re h.TroyucrSxTa.1 ta virepruv bfifiiTm dis nifi' S iK t?,s KepaKij: iSpios Kaicovpyf)' K 456 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. lip. It is neai-ly an inch in breadth at its origin, and it covers the infra-orbital vessels and nerves. This arises from the canine fossa of the superior Leyator au- j^axillary bone, below the infra-orbital foramen, and is ^ inserted into the angle of the mouth. This muscle lies beneath, and is covered by the levator labii superioris. i, + • Now examine two muscles belonging to the nose — the trian- gularis or compressor nasi, and the depressor labii superioris. This arises from the superior maxillary bone, near the Compres- ^j^e j^ose, and is inserted into the dorsum of the nose with its fellow of the opposite side. The origin of this muscle is concealed by the levator labii superioris ala^que nasi. This anses from the superior maxillary bone, above faS;:. the second incisor tooth, and is inserted into the septum and ala of the nose. It is situated between the mucous membrane and the muscular structure of the upper lip. To expose rSe upper lip must be everted and the mucous membrane re- Besides the muscles above described, we find, in connection with the cartilages of the ala of the nose, pale muscular fibres, m which no definite arrangement can be traced. They constitute the ™or«mautmo.''andthe"^ of some anatomists. By acting upon the cartilages of the nose, Lse little muscles contribute in some degree to express the con- dition of the mind. Some of them dilate the nostrils; for instance in dvsTml • others contract them, as in smelling, when we smff up the aHwLrds the olfactory nerve. Though apparently feeHe Z;:. strong enough ^^J^^^^^ ^ with which t^ej— Buccinator. ^^^^^ • ^e^r the last two molars, and from the pteiygo-maxillary ligament. It is inserted into the angle of the mouth and the muscular structure of the hps. The buccinator is the great muscle of the cheek. It forms, with the superior constrictor of the pharynx, a continuous muscular wall VMUSCLES OF THE FACE. 57 for the side of the mouth and pharynx. The bond of connection between the buccinator and the superior constrictor, is the " so Fig. 9. Tensor palati. Levator palati. Orbicularis oris Pterygo-maxillary ""^H^ ligament . . Glosso-pharyngeal n. Stylo-pharjngeus. Mylo-hyoideus Os-liyoides . . . Thyro-hyoid liga- ment Pomum Adami Cricoid cartilage . Trachea . . . . Superior laryngeal n. and a. External laryngeal n. Crico-thyroid. Inferior larynge.al n. CEsopIiagiis. MUSCLES OF THE PHABYNX. called" pterygo-maxillary ligament. Now this ligament, {see diagram), extends from the hamular process vertically to the lower jaw near the last molar. It is wrong to call it a ligament, for it is simply a fibrous intersection between the two muscles. The duct of the parotid gland passes obliquely through theARTERIES OF THE FACE. 58 buccinator into the mouth, near the second molar of the upper jaw. The chief use of the buccinator is to keep the food between the teeth during mastication. It can also widen the mouth. Its power of expellmg au- from the mouth, as in whistling or playing on a wind instrument, has given rise to its peculiar name. It is supplied by the facial nerve, and is, therefore, affected in facial paralysis. The buccinator muscle is covered by a layer of fibrous tissue, which adheres closely to its surface, and is attached to the alveolar border of the upper and lower jaw. This structm-e is thin over the anterior part of the muscle, but more dense behind, where it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the pharynx. It is called the «bucco-pharyngeal" fascia, since it supports and strengthens the muscular walls of these cavities. In consequence of the resistance of this fascia abscfesses do not readily burst into the mouth or the pharynx. The molar glands, not more than three or four m number, situated immediately outside the posterior part ^ of the buccinator, are about the size of a split pea, and their secretion is conveyed to the mouth by separate ducts neai- the last molar teeth. Between the buccinator and the masseter there is, m almost aU subjects, an accumulation of fat. It is found, beneath the 27goma especially, in large round masses, and may be turned out with the handle of the scalpel. It fills up the zygomatic fossa, and bemg soft and elastic, does not present the least obstacle to the free move- ments of the jaw. Its absorption in emaciated individuals occasions the sinking of the cheek. The facial (external maxillary) artery is the third Facial ao:- -branch of the external carotid. It rims tortuously be- neath the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus, and the stylo-hyoideus, next t/.rou^;/t the substance of the submaxillary gland, and mounts over the base of the jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. Up to this point we traced it in the dissection of the neck (page 23.) It now ascends tortuously near the corner of the mouth and the ala of the nose, towaxds the59 ARTERIES OF THE FACE. inner angle of tlie eye, where, much diminished in size, it inosculates Avith the terminal branch of the ophthalmic, a branch of the in- ternal carotid. In the first part of its course on the face, the facial artery is covered only by the platysma; above the corner of the mouth it is crossed by a few fibres of the orbicularis oris and the zygomatici; still higher it is covered by some of the fibres of the elevators of the upper lip and the nose. It lies successively upon the buccinator, levator anguli oris, and levator labii superioris muscles. In its course along the face it gives off the following branches: — The inferior coronary artery comes off near the angle of the mouth, runs tortuously along the lower lip, between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis muscle, and inosculates with its fellow. The superior coronary proceeds along the upper lip close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with its fellow; thus a complete arterial circle is formed round the mouth. These arteries can be felt in one's own person pulsating on the inner side of the lip, not far from the free border. From this circle numerous branches pass off to the papillae of the lips, and the labial glands. The superior coronary gives off a small branch (artery of the septum) which ascends along the septum to the apex of the nose. The lateral artery of the nose, a branch of considerable size, arises opposite the ala nasi, and ramifies upon the external surface of the nose. The angular artery, which may be regarded as the termina- tion of the facial, inosculates on the inner side of the tendo oculi with the ophthalmic. The facial artery supplies numerous branches to the muscles of the face, and inosculates with the transversalis faciei, infra-orbital, and mental arteries. The facial artery and its branches are surrounded by a minute plexus of nerves (nervi molles), scarcely visible to the naked eye. They are derived from the superior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, and exert a powerful influence over the contraction and dilatation of the capillary vessels, and thus occasion tliose suddenPAROTID GLAND. 60 changes in the countenance indicative of certain mental emotions: e. g., blushing or sudden paleness.* The facial vein does not run with the artery, but takes a straight course from the inner angle of the eye to the anterior edge of the masseter. In this course it descends beneath the zygomatic muscles, over the termination of the parotid duct, and at the ante- rior border of the masseter passes over the jaw, behind the facial artery, and joins the internal jugular vein. The facial vein is a continuation of the frontal, which descends over the forehead, and, after receiving the supra-orbital, takes the name of angular at the corner of the eye. It communicates with the ophthalmic tvein, receives the veins of the eyelids, the external parts of the nose, the coronary veins, and others from the muscles of the face. Near the angle of the mouth it is often increased in size by a large vein which comes from a venoiis plexus deeply seated behind the superior maxillary bone. Aj^eria This artery arises from the external carotid, or the transversa- temporal in the substance of the parotid gland. It runs lis faciei. fQj-^ards across the masseter above the parotid duct, and is distributed to the glandtila socia parotidis, but chiefly to the masseter itself. The transverse facial artery is seldom of large size, except when it supplies those parts which usually receive blood froin the facial. I have seen it as large as a goose-qu.ill, furnishing the coronaiy and the nasal arteries; the facial itself not being larger than a sewing thread. Now direct your attention to the parotid gland ; its boundaries, its deep relations, the course of its duct, and the objects contained within the gland itself. / The parotid salivary gland occupies the space between the gw'ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process. It is bounded above by the zygoma, below by the sterno-mastoid and * M. Bernard and Brow S6qiiai-t have proved by experiment that if the branches of the sympathetic, -which accompany the facial artery, be divided, tlie capillary vessels of the face, being deprived of their contractile power, become immediately distended with blood, and the temperature of the face is raised.PAROTID GLAND. 61 digastric muscles; behind, by the meatus auditorius and the mastoid process; in front, it lies over the ascending ramus of the jaw, and is prolonged for some distance over the masseter. It is separated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo-maxillary liga- ment ; sometimes the two glands are directly continuous. The superficial surface of the gland is flat, and covered by a strong layer of fascia, a continuation of the cervical fascia. It not only envelopes the whole gland in a common sheath, but sends down numerous partitions which form a frame-work for the indivi- dual lobes. The density of this sheath explains the pain caused by inflammation of the gland, the tardiness with which abscesses within it make their way to the surface, and the propriety of an early opening. The deep surface of the gland is irregular, and moulded upon the subjacent parts. Thus, it extends inwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; it reaches the styloid process and the muscles attached to it, and sometimes penetrates deep enough to be in contact with the internal jugular vein. That portion of the gland which lies on the masseter muscle is called the " glandula soda parotidis." It varies in size in different cases. The greater part of it is situated above the parotid duct, into which it pours its secretion by one or two smaller ducts. The duct of the parotid gland (ductus Stenonis *), is thick and strong. In this respect it differs much from the duct of the sub- maxillary gland, which is less exposed to injury. It runs forwards over the masseter muscle, perforates the buccinator obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Near its termination it is crossed by the zygomaticus major and the facial vein. After perforating the buccinator, the duct passes for a short distance between the muscle and the mucous membrane. Its orifice is small and contracted when compared with the diameter of the rest of the duct, which will admit a crow- * Nio. Steiio, Dc glaudulis oris, &e. Liigcl. Bat. 1661.PAROTID GLAND. 62 qixiU: it is not easily found in the mouth, because it is concealed by a fold of mucous membrane. Since it is desirable, in operations about the face, to avoid injur- ing the parotid duct, it is well to know that the precise direction • of'the duct corresponds with a line drawn from the tip of the lobe of the ear to a point midway between the nose and the upper hp. ' Now cut into the substance of the parotid, to see the objects con- tained in its interior, which are as follow, proceeding in the order of their depth from the surface:— 1. Two or more small absorbent glands. 2. The « pes anserinus," or the primary branches of the facial 3. The external jugular vein formed by the junction of the internal maxillary and the temporal vehas. 4 The external carotid, which, after giving many branches to the gland, divides opposite the neck of the jaw, into the mternal maxillary and temporal arteries.* The absorbent glands about the parotid deserve notice, because they are liable to become enlarged, and thus to simulate disease of the parotid itself. An absorbent gland lies close to the root oi the zygoma, just in front of the cartilage of the ear; this gland is sometimes affected in disease of the external tunics of the eye ; for instance, in pmailent ophthalmia. _ The easiest way to display the plexus of nerves (pes ansermus) formed by the branches of the facial in the parotid gland, is to find one of the larger branches, say one of the malar, on the face, and then to trace this into the substance of the gland, as a clue to the others. . Eeviemng the intrieate and deep connections of tbe parotid gland, one ,nt c!nlde tlat it is almost, if not ,nite impracticable, to ™ ^^^^^^^^^^ life. If this conclusion be correct, even in the normal ^ ^^^^ji^^^^^^ Hiust it be when the gland is enlarged by disease ? J"^^.^"^^'f fj ease in .hich he .as -uee^pt ^^^^^^t^tr::^ tJo! r Snptd rsre1h:::g " "^J^^ Lt ^ a tumour in the substance of the parotid for disease of the parotid itseli.NERVES OF THE Jb'ACE. 63 „ ,. , This is the motor nerve of the face. It supplies all Poi-tio dura _ ^ ^ or facial the muscles of expression except those which move the T^cvre. Qjes. It arises immediately below the " pons VaroHi," from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata. The nerve enters the meatus auditorius internus, traverses a canal {" aqueductus Fallopii ") in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its course and connections in the temporal bone will be investigated hereafter : at present we are interested in the facial part of the nerve. Having emerged from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the nerve enters the parotid gland, and' soon divides into two primary branches, named, from their distribution, the tem'poro-facial and the cervico-facial. These primary branches cross over the external carotid, and the external jugular vein; they then form, by their communications within the substance of the parotid, the plexus to which the term " pes anserinus" has been applied, from its resemblance to the skeleton of a goose's foot. You ought to trace this plexus and the direction of its ramifications carefully ; for you may be called upon to remove tumours formed in the interior of the parotid; you may find the nerves spread over the tumour, and you must dissect between the nerves without injm-ing them. Close to the stylo-mastoid foramen the facial nerve sends off its posterior auricular branch (p. 32), which supplies the muscles of the ear and the posterior portion of the occipito-frontalis; also a branch to the posterior belly of the digastricus, and another to the stylo-hyoideus. The tem'poro-facial division crosses the external carotid and the neck of the jaw, receives two or more communications from the temporo-auricular (branch of the fifth), and subdivides into temporal, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma, supply the frontalis, the attrahens, and attollens aurem, and communicate with filaments of the supra^-orbital nerve. The ma^ar branches cross the zygoma, supply the orbicularis oculi, and communicate with filaments" of the lacrymal nerve. The infra-orbital branches proceed forwards beneath the" zygo-64 NERVES OF THE FACE. matici over the masseter, and supply the elevators of the upper lip and the muscles of the nose. One large filament accompanies the parotid duct, and supplies the buccinator. Beneath the levator labii superioris we find a free communication with the infra-orbital branches of the second division of the fifth nerve. The cervico-facial division, joined by filaments from the auriculo- parotidean (branch of cervical plexus), descends towards the angle of the jaw, and subdivides into supra and infra-maxillary branches. The swpra-maxillary branches advance over the masseter and facial artery, and run under the depressor muscles of the lower lip, all of which they supply. Some of the filaments communicate with the mental branch of the dental nerve. The infra-maxillary or cervical branches, one or more in number, were dissected with the neck (page 5). They arch for- wards below the jaw, covered by the platysma, and communicate with the superficialis colli, a branch of the cervical plexus. Eespecting the function of the facial nerve, it is necessary to remember that though at its origin it is purely a motor nerve, yet after leaving the stylo-mastoid foramen it becomes a compound nerve, in consequence of the filaments which it receives from the temporo-auricular branch of the fifth, and from the auriculo-paro- tidean branch of the cervical plexus. These communications explain the pain which is often felt in facial paralysis along the track of the facial nerves. These are the supra-orbital, the infra-orbital, and the Sensitive r ,^ nci.\. nerves of mental, all branches ot the fiith pair, the face. rpj^g swpra-orUtal nerve is a branch of the first division of the fifth pair. It leaves the orbit through the supra-orbital notch, and is at first covered by the orbicularis, and occipito- frontalis. But it presently divides into wide-spreading branches, which supply the sldn of the forehead and scalp. The supra- orbital artery is a branch of the- ophthalmic. The infra-orbital nerve is the terminal branch of the superior maxillary or second division of the fifth nerve. It emerges with its artery from the infra-orbital foramen, covered by the levator labii superioris. The nerve immediately divides into several65 TEMPORAL REGION, branches, of which some, ascending beneath the orbicularis, supply the lower eyelid; others pass inwards to supply the nose; by far the gi-eater number descend into the upper lip, and eventually terminate in lashes of filaments, which endow the papillse of the lip -with exquisite sensibility. The infra-orbital artery is the terminal branch of the internal maxillary; it supplies the muscles and skin, and inosculates with branches of the facial. The mental nerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary or third division of the fifth nerve. It emerges from the mental foramen in the lower jaw, in a direction upwards and backwards, beneath the depressor labii inferioris. It soon divides into a number of branches, some of which supply the skin of the chin, but the greater number ascend to the lower lip, in the papillae of which they terminate. The mental artery is a branch of the inferior dental. It supplies the gums and the chin, and inosculates with the sub-mental and inferior coronary arteries. MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. —TEMPORAL AND SPHENO- MAXILLARY REGIONS. In the dissection we are about to commence, I advise you to examine the parts in the following order : — 1. Superficial arteries and nei-ves of the 6. Pterygoid muscles. temple. 6. Internal maxillaiy artery and 2. Masseter muscle, branches. 3. Temporal aponeurosis. 7. Inferior maxillary nerve and 4. Temporal muscle. branches. Reflect the skin of the temple in any way most convenient. Under the skin you will come upon a layer of tough fibro-cellular tissue, which is continuous, above, with the aponeurosis of the scalp, below, with the fascia covering the masseter and the parotid gland. In this tissue are contained the superficial temporal vessels and nerves, of which let us trace the ramifications.TEMPOEAL REGION. 66 This is one of the terminal branches of the external "-^^^"^ carotid. Arising in the substance of the parotid gland near the neck of the jaw, it passes over the root of the zygoma close to the meatus auditorius, ascends for about an inch and a half upon the temporal fascia, and then divides into an ante- rior and a posterior branch. Above the zygoma it is superficial, and is only covered by the attrahens aurem muscle. It gives off the following branches : —- a. Several small branches to the parotid gland. b. Sometimes the transversalis faciei (p. 60). c. The anterior auricular branches ramify upon the pinna of the ear, inosculating with the posterior auricular. Of the two branches into which the temporal divides, the ante- rior is usually chosen for ar'teriotomy. It ascends tortuously towards the external angle of the frontal bone, from which it is distant generally about an inch. Its ramifications extend over the forehead, supplying the orbicularis and frontal muscles, and inos- culate with the other arteries of the scalp. The postei^or runs towards the back of the head, and inosculates freely with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. This nerve supplies the temples and side of the head SriS' with common sensibility. It arises from the third divi- nerve.. ^-^^ gft]^ pair by two roots (between which the arteria meningea media runs). From its origin it proceeds out- wards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral liga- ment, to the root of the zygoma, over which it runs Avith the temporal artery. Its ramifications correspond with those of the artery. Near the condyle of the jaw the temporo-aiuicular nerve sends branches to the upper division of the facial nerve, endowing it with common sensibility. Above the zygoma it gives filaments (auricular) to the pinna of the ear. Lastly, in the subcutaneous tissue of the temple we find the temporal branches of the facial nerve, which supply the frontahs, the attrahens, and attollens aurem.67 TEMPOKAL REGION. This muscle ames from the lower edge of the zygoma, musde'^'^ and is inserted into the outer side of the ramus and coro- noid process of the jaw. The masseter is composed of a superficial and a deep layer of fibres which cross each other like the letter X. The superficial fibres, constituting the principal part of the muscle, arise from the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma by a strong tendon which occupies the front border of the muscle, and sends aponeurotic partitions into its substance. The fibres incline back- wai'ds, and are inserted into the angle and part of the ramus of the jaw. The deep fibres arise from the posterior part of the zygoma, incline forwards, and are inserted into the upper half of the ramus and the coronoid process. Besides these, a few fibres, taking origin from the inner surface of the zygoma, are inserted into the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its action is to masticate the food : it closes the jaw with great force. The following objects lie upon the masseter: 1. Grlandula socia parotidis, and parotid duct; 2, Transversalis faciei artery; 3. Facial artery and vein ; 4. Branches of the facial nerve. Keflect the masseter from its origin. Observe the dii-ection of the superficial and deep fibres, and the tendinous partitions of which the object is to augment the power of the muscle by increasing its extent of origin. The masseteric nerve and artery enter the under surface of the muscle through the sigmoid notch of the jaw; the artery comes from the internal maxillary, the nerve from the motor division of the inferior maxillary. This is the strong shining membrane which covers the aponeurosis, temporal muscle. It is attached, above, to the temporal ridge, below, to the zygoma. Its chief ixse is to give additional origin to the temporal muscle. It increases in thickness from above downwards, and near the zygoma divides into two layers, which are attached to the outer and inner surfaces of the zygoma. These layers are separated by a small quantity of fat. The density of this aponem-osis explains why abscesses in the temporal fossa rarely point outwards; the matter makes its way beneath the zygoma, into the mouth. Keflect'the aponeurosis from the temporal muscle. Notice that F 268 8PHEN0-MAXILLARY REGION. the aponeurosis is separated from the muscle near the zygoma hy fat. The absorption of this fat, and the wasting of the muscle, occasion the falling in of the temple in the aged and those ema- ciated by disease. This muscle arises from the temporal fossa and the mS^^ temporal aponeurosis. It is inserted into the inner sm- face and anterior border of the coronoid process. The fibres of this muscle converge from their wide origin, pass under the zygomatic arch, and terminate upon their tendon, the outer surface of which is partially concealed by the insertion of those fibres which come from the temporal aponeurosis; remove them, and you will see how admirably this tendon is adapted to the muscle, and radiates into its substance like the ribs of a fen. Thus the whole force of the muscle is collected into one focus.* ^ Eemove with a small saw the zygomatic arch ; this mil expose the coronoid process of the jaw, the insertion of region. temporal muscle, and the loose fat which surrounds it Now saw through the coronoid process in a direction downwards and forwards, so as to include the insertion of the temporal muscle ; turn it upwards with the muscle without injuring the subjacent vessels and nerves. Then ask your demonstrator how much of the neck and ramus of the jaw should be removed in order to obtam a o-ood view of the spheno-maxillary region. In the spheno-maxillary region we have to examine the two pterygoid muscles, the internal maxillary artery, and the inferior maxillary nerve.. i . i This muscle arises by two heads, one from the external External ^.g^^^o-oid plate, the other from the great wing of the pterygoid. I -^^^ i^to the neck of the jaw, and sUo-htly into the inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the joint of the jaw. The object of the insertion of some of its fibres into the inter- * The power possessed by the muscles which close the jaw is quite ^f^;^^^, Haller (eW. Phys. Ub. xi. sect. 2, § 26) mentions that one Thomas Topham Sed Jth his lowe'r jaw a table six feet in length, ^vith 60 lbs. attached to .ts low r encl. It is riot uncommon to see mountebanks balance on theu-chins a ladder so heavy that they can liai-dly lift it.69 SPHENO-MAXILLAKY REGION. articulcoi- cartilage is, that the cartilage may follow the condyle in all its movements. When the jaw is dislocated, it is chiefly by the Fig. 10. 'Anterior temporal n. and a. Exlenial pterygoid m. } Posterior temporal n. and a. I I lUasseteric ii. and a. Infra-orbital a. ^ Splieno-ma.\illary ^ ^'vj , fossa . . . Superior dental a. I Buccal a. . . Parotid duct . Buccal n. . . Pterygo-inaxillary ligament. Inter.articular fibro-cartilage. Temporal artery and nerve. Middle meningeal a. Inferior dental a. Inferior dental n. Gustatory n. Mylo-hyoid n. Internal pterygoid m. PTEEYGOID iruSCLES AND DTTEBNAl MAXILLAIiT AitTEHY. action of this muscle, which pulls the condyle into the zygomatic fossa; the inter-articular cartilage is dislocated with the condyle. ^ ^ This muscle arises from the inner surface of the ex- pteiygoid. ternal pterygoid plate, and tuberosity of the palate bone. It is inserted into the inner side of the angle of the jaw. Notice particularly the direction of the fibres of the pterygoid muscles, else you cannot imderstand their action upon the jaw. The fibres of the external pterygoid nm horizontally outwards and backwards from then- origin; the fibres of the internal pter5'goid run downwards and backwards from their origin. In structure, these muscles are similar to the masseter ; that is, they are inter-INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. •0 sected by tendinous septa for the purpose of giving origin to muscular fibre. The action of the pterygoid muscles is to produce the lateral movement of the jaw essential to the proper mastication of the food. Consequently we find them enormously developed in all ruminants, and comparatively feeble in carnivorous animals. Disarticulate the condyle of the jaw with its fibro-cartilage from the crlenoid cavity, and turn it forwards with the external pterygoid, so that the condyle can be replaced if desirable. A little dissection will bring into view the internal maxillary artery. This is one of the terminal branches into which the LtSJiy external carotid divides opposite the neck of the jaw. _ It arteiy. ^^^^ horizontaUy forwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; it then runs tortuously in some cases above, in others beneath the external pterygoid, enters the spheno-maxiUary fossa between the two heads of the external pterygoid, and terminates by dividing into several branches. We divide the course of this artery into three stages. In the first stage, the artery lies between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; in the second stage, it lies either oyer or under the external pterygoid; in the third stage, it lies m the spheno-maxillary fossa. BEANCHES OF THE INTEENAL MAXILLAET AETEEY IN THE THEEE STAGES OF ITS COUESE. Branches in the First Staoe. Tympanic. Meningea media. Meningea parya^ Inferior dental Branches in the Second Stage. Six to the muscles of masti- cation, namely: — Masseteric. Ajiterior and posterior temporal. External and internal pterygoid. Buccal. Branches in the Thied Stage. Superior dental. Infi.-a-orbital. Descending palatine. Vidian. Nasal. Ptorygo-palatinc. The tvmvanic artery passes through the glenoid fissure to the tympanum. This small branch varies as to its origm71 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. The middle meningecd artery ascends between the two roots of the temporo-auricular nerve through the foramen spinosum into Fig. 11. Third stage. Second stage. First stage. PLAN OF rNTBENAl MAXILLAET AETEEY. the cranium, where it ramifies between the dui-a mater and the bones. The meningea parva ascends through the foramen ovale into the skull, and supplies chiefly the ganglion of the fifth pair. It often comes from the meningea media. The inferior dental artery descends behind the neck of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters in company with the dental nerve. It then proceeds through a canal in the diploe to the sym- physis, where it minutely inosculates with its fellow. In this canal, which runs beneath the roots of all the teeth, the artery gives branches which ascend through the little apertures in the fangs, •and ramify upon the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale arises the mental branch already described (jp. 65). Before entering the jaw the dental artery furnishes a small branch which accompanies the nerve proceeding to the mylo-hyoid muscle. The masseteric branch passes through the sigmoid notch of the r 4INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 72 jaw to the under surface of the masseter, with the masseteric nerve. The anterior and posterior temporal arteries ascend to supply the temporal muscle, ramifying close to the bone, one near the , front, the other near the posterior border of the muscle. The jpterygoicl branches supply the internal and external ptery- goid muscles. The buccal branch runs forwards with the buccal nerve to the buccinator. The superior-dental branch runs along the back part of the sviperior maxillary bone, and sends small arteries through the foramina in the bone to supply the pulps of the molar and bicuspid teeth. It also supplies the gums. The infra-orbital branch passes through the spheno-maxillai-y fissure, then runs forwards along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, and emerges upon the face at the infra- orbital foramen. While in the infra-orbital canal the artery sends branches downwards through little canals in the bone to supply the incisor and canine teeth. The descending palatine, a branch of considerable size, runs down the posterior palatine canal with the palatine nerve, and then along the hard palate, in which it is lost. It suppHes the gums, the glands, and mucous membrane of this part, and furnishes branches to the soft palate. The Vidian, an insignificant branch, rvms backwards through the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve, and is lost upon the Eus- tachian tube. The nasal branch enters the nose' through the spheno-palatme foramen in company with the nasal nerve from Meckel's (spheno- palatine) ganglion, and ramifies upon the spongy bones and the septum narium. The pterygo-palatine is a small but constant branch which runs backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, and ramifies upon the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. The internal-rtxaxillary vein is formed by the veins con-espond- ing to the branches of the artery. It joins .the temporal vem in the substance of the parotid gland.INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 73 This great nerve is the largest of the three divisioas of m^uLj the fifth cerebral nerve. It differs from the other two nerve and (Jivrisions, i. 6. the ophthalmic and the superior maxillary, in that it contains motor as well as sensitive filaments; the motor being furnished by the small non-ganglionic root of the fifth nerve. Thus much of its physiology it is necessary to know, in order to imderstand the extensive distribution of the nerve; for we shall find that the motor portion supplies all the mu-scles con- cerned in the movements of the lower jaw * ; whilst the other portion confers only common sensibility upon the parts to which it is distributed. The nerve, then, composed of sensitive and motor filaments, emerges from the skull through the foramen ovale as a single thick trunk, under the name of the inferior maxillary. It lies directly external to the Eustachian tube: it is covered by the external pterygoid muscle, which should be turned on one side to expose it. Immediately after its exit fi-om the skull, the nerve divides into its several branches; some, destined for the muscles, contain motor as well as sensitive filaments; others are pm'ely sensitive. BEANCHES OF THE INFERIOE MAXILLAEY NERVE. Bhajstches Sensitivb. Beanchbs Motoe. Temporo-auriciTlar. To temporal muscle. Inferior dental. — masseter. Gustatory. >— external pterygoid. Buccal. — internal pterygoid. — tensor jDalati. — mylo-hyoideus. — anterior belly of digastricus. The branches to the temjoorcd muscle pass outwards close to the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and ascend in company with the temporal arteries to the muscle. The branch to the masseter runs outwards above the external pterygoid, through the sigmoid notch of the jaw. * Excepting the genio-hyoidei muscles, which ai-c supplied by the hyiDoglossal nerve.INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 74 The branch to the external pterygoid comes apparently from the buccal nerve in its passage through this muscle. The branch to the internal pterygoid and tensor jpalati muscles is rather difficult to find. It proceeds from the inner side of the main trunk, descends between the internal pterygoid and the tensor palati, and supplies both. The 6 W branch passes either above or between the fibre of the external pterygoid to the buccinator, where xt ^F^ads out into filaments, which supply the skin, the mucous membrane and glands of the cheek, with common sensibility. The motor POwer of the buccinator, remexnber, is derived from the facia nerve Tbs is proved not only by careful dissection, but by the fact that the75 INFEKIOR MAXILLARY NERVE, muscle loses its power of contraction when the facial nerve is paralysed; and that it retains its power of contraction when the muscles of mastication are paralysed. The temporo-auriculo/r branch arises by two roots which embrace the middle meningeal artery before it enters the skull. The nerve runs outwards behind the neck of the jaw, ascends over the root of the zygoma with the superficial temporal artery, and ramifies with this artery upon the temple and side of the head, supplying the skin. While behind the condyle it sends filaments to the skin liniag the meatus auditorius. Lastly, branches proceed from this nerve to the upper division of the facial, and endow it with common sensibility. The inferior dental branch descends between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of .the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters with the dental artery. It then runs in the canal in the diploe of the jaw below the fangs of all the teeth. It furnishes filaments which ascend through the canals in the fangs of the teeth to the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale the mental branch is given off. Observe that the same nerve which supplies the teeth supplies the gums; hience the sympathy between these parts. The mylo-hyoid branch, apparently originating from the dental, and so described, is derived from the motor root of the fifth, and may, with careful dissection, be traced to it. It leaves the dental nerve near the foramen in the jaw, and runs in a gi-oove on the inner side of the ramus to the lower surface of the mylo-hyoid, which muscle, together with the anterior portion of the digastricus, it supplies (p. 23). ' The gustatory branch descends first between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle, then for a short distance between the jaw and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. In this situation it lies close to the mucous membrane of the mouth near the last molar tooth of the lower jaw. The gustatory n. then ■ runs along the hyo-glossus muscle to the tongue, and is distributed to the papillse of the tip and sides of that organ. The gustatory nerve is joined by the chorda tympani (a branch76 STYLOID MUSCLES. of the facial nerve), wliich emerges from the glenoid fissure,, and eventually runs to the submaxillary ganglion. We have now a good opportunity of examining this latS^^ so-called ligament. By some anatomists it is not re- Hgament cognised as a Hgament, and with reason, because it is of the jaw. ^^^^^^ g^^^ ^ distance from the joint. It proceeds from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and is attached to the jaw on the inner side of the foramen dentale. Between this ligament and the neck of the jaw we find the internal maxillary artery and vein, the temporo-auricular nerve, the middle meningeal artery, the dental nerve and artery, and a portion of the parotid gland. ' At this stage of the dissection you will be able to trace the course and relations of the internal carotid artery. But before you do this, examine the several objects which intervene between the external and internal carotid. These objects are, 1. The stylo- glossus, 2. The stylo-pharyngeus, 3. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 4. The stylo-hyoid ligament. This arises from the. styloid process near the apex, and Stylo- the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is inserted into the side of the tongue, external to the hyo-glossus. Its action is to retract the tongue. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal This arises from the styloid process near the base, and Stylo-pha- inserted into the posterior edge of the thyroid cartilage. It descends along the side of the pharynx between the superior and the middle constrictor. Its nerve comes from the ;Wngealplex.is. Its acHon is to raise the larynx with the '^Z^Z't^-^os.u. and stylo-pharyngeus, and nearly para eTwith both, is the stylo-hyoid ligament. It extends from lltpex of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the os-hyoides. It is often more or less ossified. The mcending palatine artery, a branch of the externa maxillary or facial (p. 23), runs np between the stylo-glossus and Zlo pllryngeus, and divides into branches which supply these muscles, the palate, the side of the pharyn.x, and the tonsils.PHARYNGEAL PLEXUS. INTEKNAL CAROTID. 77 Glosso-pha- -^^^ guide to the glosso-phar3mgeal nerve is the ryngeal lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. This nerve neiTe. ^j^^ divisions of the eighth pair. It arises by four or five filaments from the medulla oblongata in the groove between the olive and the restiform tract. At its origin it is purely a sensitive nerve. Leaving the skull through the foramen lacerum posterius, it descends in front-of the internal carotid artery, and then proceeds along the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus. But now it curves forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus (p. 26) and disappears beneath the hyo-glossus, where it divides into its terminal branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and the tonsils. According to the present state of our knowledge, the glosso- pharyngeal is, at its origin, purely a sensitive nerve. But soon after its exit from the skull it receives communications from the facial and the nervus accessorius, so that it soon becomes a compound nerve, i. e. composed of both sensitive and motor filaments. More- over, at the base of the skull it is provided with a ganglion, called the ganglion of " Andersch." The minute branches given off by this ganglion will be noticed in their proper place; at present we are more concerned with what is called the pharjTigeal plexus of nerves, Ph al ^^^^ middle constrictor of the pharynx, ple^^*" intricate interlacement of nerves, constituting the plexus which presides over deglutition. Its dissection requires much time and care, and a pliarynx prepared exclusively for the purpose. The nerves which enter into its composition are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, the pneumogastric, the spinal accessory, and the sympathetic. Consequently it possesses nerves of three different kinds — ganglionic, sensitive, and motor. Its minute ramifications supply the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and tonsils. ' Course and The internal carotid artery, proceeding from the divi- SSter- ^^^'^^^^d' to the base of the nai cai-otid skuU, by the side of the pharynx close to the transverse artcrj-. processes of the three upper cervical vertebrae. It enters the skull through the carotid canal in the temporal bone, runsPNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 78 very tortuously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and terminates in branches which supply the orbit and the brain. In the first part of its course, it is situated immediately outside the external carotid, near the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. But it soon gets beneath the external carotid, and lies deeply seated by the side of the pharynx. In its course it is crossed suc- cessively by the hypoglossal nerve and the occipital artery; still higher, it is crossed obliquely by the styloid process, by the stylo- glossus and pharyngeus muscles, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo hyoid-ligament, all of which intervene between it and the external carotid. The internal.jugular vein runs along the outer side of the arterj^ Behind the artery are the pneumogastric nerve and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The rectus capitis anticus major separates it from the cervical vertebra?. But after all, the most important relation of the artery in a surgical point of view is, that it ascends close by the side of the pharynx and tonsils. In opening an abscess, therefore, near the tonsils, or at the back of the pharynx, be careful to introduce the knife with its point inwaids towards the mesial line: observe this caiition the more, because, in some subjects, the internal carotid makes a curve, or even a complete curl upon itself, in its ascent near the pharynx. In such cases the least deviation of the instrument in an outward direction would injure the vessel; an occurrence of which instances have been recorded. This artery generally arises from the angle of the t^:^ell common carotid, or from the commencement of the ^■t^^7- external carotid ; it ascends by the side of the pharynx, towards the base of the skull. It gives off branches which supply the pharynx, the tonsils, the Eustachian tube, and the muse es m front of the spine. A very constant branch runs down with the levator palati, above the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and supplies the soft palate. . The pneumogastric nerve is one of the three divisions gS°' of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves. It ai-ises from the iierve. medulla oblongata by a series of roots along the groovePNEUMOGASTRIC NEUVE. 79 between the olive and the restiform tract. It passes out of the skull with the nervus accessorius through the foramen jugulare. Very soon a ganglion is observed in its substance analogous to the posterior or sensitive roots of all the spinal nerves, and it is joined by a branch from its companion the nervus accessorius. Thus, the pneumogastric, probably only sensitive at its origin, becomes in consequence of this reinforcement from the nervus accessorius a compoimd nerve, and in all respects analogous to a spinal nerve. Leaving the skull, then, at the foramen jugulare, the nerve descends in front of the cervical vertebra, lying successively upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli muscles. In the upper part of the neck it is situated behind the internal carotid artery; in the lower, between and behind the common carotid and the internal jugular vein. It enters the chest, on the right side crossing in front of the subclavian artery nearly at a right angle ; on the left running nearly parallel with it. In their course thi-ough the chest, the pneumogastric nerves have not similar relations. The right nerve descends by the side of the trachea and then behind the right bronchus to the posterior part of the oesophagus. The left nerve crosses in froAt of the arch of the aorta, and then passes behind the left bronchus to the anterior part of the oesophagus. Both nerves accompany the oesophagus into the abdomen, and are eventually distributed to the stomach. In their long course from the medulla oblongata to the abdomen, the pneumogastric nerves supply branches to most important organs : namely, to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart, the lungs, the oesophagus, and the stomach. Within the foramen jugulare, a small ganglion (Arnold's ganglion) is formed upon the pneumogastric nerve. This ganglion will be described hereafter. But soon after leaving the skull, the pneumo- gastric nerve , sweUs considerably, and forms a second ganglion (inferior gangUon) of a reddish-grey colour. This ganglion occupies a,bout an inch of the nerve. It is united to the hypoglossal nerve, from which it receives filaments. It also receives filaments from the first and second spinal nerves, and from80 SYMrAXnETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The branches of this ganglion are: — • i,- i 1. The pharyngeal, which descend either in front of or behind the internal carotid to join the pharyngeal plexus (p. 77). 2. The superior laryngeal, which descends behind the external carotid to the interval between the os-hyoides and the thyroid car- tilage, where it enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. Eemember that this superior laryngeal gives off the " external laryngeal" which supplies the crico-thyroid muscle (p. 57). 3. The cardiac, two in number, which descend behind the sheath of the carotid to the cardiac plexus. They vary much as to the situation of their origin,-proceeding either from the ganglion, or from the main trunk of the nerve in its course down the neck. On their passage to the heart, the right cardiac nerves run behind the arch of the aorta, the left in front of it, to the great cardiac ganghon This cardiac ganglion is situated between the arch of the aorta and the trachea; and from it the nerves of the heart are given off. _ The inferior laryngeal or recurrent branch of the pneumogastric turns on the right side, under the subclavian artery (p. 38) and runs up to the larynx between the trachea and the bodies of the cervical vertebra; on the left side, it turns under the arch of the aorta, and ascends to the larynx between the trachea and the CBSophagus. On both sides it enters the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor. ' The remaining branches of the pneumogastric, to the lungs the cBSophagus and stomach will be examined in the dissection of the We now pass on to examine the cervical gangha of the Sympatte- ^^athetic system of nerves. Speaking in general '''' ™- terms of this system, it may be said that it consis^^s of a series of ganglia arranged on either side of the spine, from the first :W ?o thelast sacral vertebra. The successive ^^^^ same side are connected by intermediate nerves, so as to fonn a • continuous cord on each side of the spine; ^Ins constitiites w^^^^^^^^^ called the trunk of the sympathetic system. This system of nervesSYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. 81 is connected with all the spinal nerves. Its upper or cephalic ex- ti-emity penetrates into the cranium through the carotid canal, sur- rounds the internal carotid artery, communicates with the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cranial nerves, and is said to join its fellow of the opposite side upon the anterior communicating artery.* Its sacral extremity joins its fellow by means of a little " ganglion impar," situated in the mesial line, upon the last sacral vertebra. The sympathetic system of nerves presides over the functions of those organs which are withdrawn from our control. Thus it regidates the circulation of the blood, respiration, digestion, and secretion; all of which processes go on without our being conscious of them. Cervical gan- Cervical portion of the sympathetic are three gKa of sym- ganglia, named from their position, superior, middle pattetie. and inferior. The superior cervical ganglion, the largest of the three, is situated near the base of the skull, upon the rectus capitis anticus major behind the internal carotid artery. It is of a reddish-grey colour Hke other ganglia, of an elongated oval shape, varying in length from one to two inches. It may facilitate the description of its several branches if we divide them into — 1st, those which are presumed to connect it with other nerves; and 2ndly, those which originate from it. It is then connected by branches as follows : a. With each of the four upper spinal nerves. 6. With the hypoglossal, pneumogastric, and glosso-pharyno-eal nerves. ° c. With the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cerebral nerves (in the cavernous sinus). d. With the several ganglia of the sympathetic system about the head and neck; namely, the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic and siibmaxillary. ' The branches which it distributes are — e. Nerves to the heart.-One or more descend behind the » Here, it is said, is situated the Httle gangHon of Eibes. I have never seen it Gtg2 DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. sheath of the carotid, and entering the chest, join the cardiac plexus. / Nerves to the pharynx. — These join the pharyngeal plexus. q Nerves to the blood-vessels. — These nerves, named on account of theu- delicacy " nervi molles," ramify around the external carotid artery and its branches. The middle cervical ganglion is something less than a barley- corn in size. It is situated behind the carotid sheath, about the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, near the inferior thyroid artery. It receives branches from the fifth and sixth spinal nerves, and frZches to the thyroid body.-These accompany the inferior thyroid artery. ■, . r 4. e b Branch to the heart.-This usually descends m front of the subclavian artery into the chest, and joins the cardiac plexus. In cases where the middle cervical ganglion is absent, the pre- ceding nerves are supplied by the sympathetic cord connectmg the superior and inferior ganglia. ; The inferior cervical ganglion is of considerable size, ^d is situated in the interval between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib, immediately behind the vertebral artery. It receives branches from the seventh and eighth spinal nerves, and others which, descending from the fourth fifth and sixth, through the foramina in the transverse processes of the vertebrae, form a plexus around the vertebral artery. The only branch which it gives off IS —.. . a Inferior cardiac ,r™.-This communicates with the re- current laryngeal, and joins the cardiac plexus beneath the arch of the aorta. DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. Before we examine the several organs contained in the chest, we ought to have some knowledge of it« frame-work. The true nbs with their cartilages describe a series of arcs, increasing m length from above downwards, and form, with the spine and the sternum, a83 DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. barrel of a conical shape, broader in the lateral than in the antero- posterior direction. The lower aperture or base of the cavity is closed in the recent state by a muscle called the diaphragm, which forms a partition between the chest and the abdomen. The partition is not flat, but arched, so that it constitutes a vaulted floor for the chest, and moreover by its capability of alternately falling and rising can increase or diminish the capaciousness of the chest. The spaces between the ribs are filled by the intercostal muscles. In each intercostal space there are two layers of these muscles, arranged like the letter X. The fibres of the outer layer nm obliquely from above downwards, and forwards; those of the inner layer in the reverse direction. The upper aperture of the chest gives passage to the trachea, the oesophagus, the great vessels of the neck and the arms, and also to certain muscles and nerves; the interspaces between these parts being occupied by a dense fibro-cellular tissue. Such, in outline, is the frame-work of the cavity, closed on all sides, which contains the heart and lungs. Observe that its walls are made up of difierent structures, bone, cartilage, and muscle, admirably disposed to fulfil two important conditions. By their solidity and elasticity they protect the important organs contained in them; by their alternate dilatation and contraction they act as mechanical powers of respiration. For they can increase the cavity of the chest in three directions : in height, by the descent of the diaphragm; in width, by the turning outwards of the ribs; and in depth, by the elevation^ of the sternum. The cliest of the female differs from that of the male in the following points: —Its general capacity is less; the sternum is shorter; the upper opening is larger in proportion to the lower ; the upper ribs are more moveable, and therefore permit a greater V enlargement of the chest at its upper part, in adaptation to the condition of the abdomen during pregnancy. In the dissection of the chest let us take the parts in the following order: — 1. Triangidaris stei-ni, with tlie internal mammanr arteiT. 2. Anterior mediastinum. O 2DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. 84 3. Rigtt and left bracliio-cephalic veins and superior vena cava. 4. Course aud relations of the arch of the aorta. 6. The three great branches of the arch. 6. Com-se of the phrenic nerves. . 7. Posterior mediastmum and its contents; namely, the aorta, the thoracic aucr, the vena azygos, the ojsophaguB, and pneumogastric nerves. 8. Sympathetic nerve. 9. Intercostal muscles, vessels, and nerves. 10. Cardiac plexus of nerves. 11. Position and relations of the heart. 12. Pericardium. 13. Position and form of the lungs. 14. Pleura. In the first place you must make a window into the chest, by carefully removing the sternum and the cartilages of all the true ribs * Cut through the cartilages of the ribs, close to the bone of the'rib, and then raise the sternum with its attached cartilages; m doing this take care not to wound the pleura which is closely connected with the cartilages. On one side remove the internal mammary artery, on the other leave it. On the under surface of the sternum and cartilages^of the ribs thus removed, is a muscle named " triangularis sterm. This muscle arises from the ensiform cartilage and Triangularis ^^^^ lower part of the sternum, and is inserted by digi- tations into the cartilages of the true ribs from the second to the sixth; its fibres ascend outwards to their insertion; its action therefore is to depress the costal cartilages It is one o •the muscles which act on emergency in expiration ItB-ivecomes from the intercostal nerves; its arteries from the mternal mam- This is a branch of the subclavian. It runs perpen- ^:Z% dicularly about half an inch from the sternum between the cartilages of the ribs and the triangularis sterni, ente s the wall of the abdomen behind the rectus abdominis, and finally . Those who are more proficient in dissection should not ™ ^^^^^^^^^^^^ .temum, hut leave, say a ,ua^er of an inch of it. J^^* to a to it. This little portion serves as a valuable lanOmarK, aiiuuug certain extent, the view of the subjacent vessels.85 DISSECTION or THE CHEST. inosculates ^vith the epigastric (a branch of the external iliac). Its branches are as follow : — a. ArteHa comes nervi jphrenici. —A very slender artery which accompanies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm. h. Mediastinal and thymic.—These branches supply the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, the pericardium, and the trian- gularis sterni muscle. The thymic are only visible in childhood, and disappear with the thymus gland. c. Intercostal. — One at least,, and often two, for each inter- costal space. They inosculate with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. d. Perforating arteries, which pass through the intercostal spaces, and supply the pectoral muscle and skin of the chest. In the female they are of large size, for the supply of the mammary gland. e. The intercosto-phrenic branch runs outwards behind the cartilages of the false ribs, and terminates near the last intercostal space. It supplies small arteries to the diaphragm, to the sixth, seventh, and sometimes the eighth intercostal spaces. There are several absorbent glands in the neighbourhood of the internal mammary artery. They receive the absorbents from the mner portion of the mammary gland, from the diaphragm, and the wall of the abdomen. In disease of the inner portion of the mamma, these glands may enlarge, Avithout any enlargement of those in the axilla. Mediastina. " mediastina" are the spaces which the two ■ pleural sacs leave between them in the antero-posterior plane of the chest. There is an anterior, and a posterior medi- astmum. To put these spaces in the simplest light, let us ima- gine the heart and lungs to be removed from the chest and the two pleural sacs to be left in it by themselves. The two sacs. If inflated, would then appear like two bladders, in contact only m the middle, as shown by the dotted outlines in the an- nexed scheme (fig. 13). The interval marked a, behind the sternum, would represent the anterior mediastinum: the intelu! es 3 'gg T)ISSECTION OF THE CHEST. Fig. 13. the posterior mediastinum. But now let us introduce the heart and lungs again, between the two pleural sacs: these must give way to make room lor them. Therefore, with the heart and lungs interposed, the pleural sacs appear as shown in the diagram, fig. 14,— which represents a transverse sec- tion through the chest. Here, you see that the heart and the lungs be- come invested by the pleural sacs; or, to speak more technically, the sacs are reflected over the heart and the lungs, on each side respec- tively. But the anterior and poste- rior mediastina remain unaltered. T 1 ' of chest in front, the anterior mediastinum appears as ^friftt ctT^e). It is .ot precisely loB^tudinal ,n Fig. 14. Internal mam- mary a., . Phrenic n. Internal mam- mary a. Phrenic n. (Esophagus wilh n. vagi. .\oita. Thoracic duct. Vena azygos. ^TTT^KT <;vrs IN DOTTED LINES. DIAGB^K OF THE REFI.ECTIONS OF TIIE PLEURAL SACS IN position of tlie heart. Its area vsmea : Uuis it is cxtie yBRACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS. 87 in the middle where the edges of the lungs nearly meet; but it is wider above and below, where the lungs diverge. What parts are contained in the anterior mediastinum ?—The remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, and triangularis sterni muscles, the left brachio-cephalic vein (which crosses behind the first bone of the sternum), and a few absorbent glands. The 'posterior mediastinum {fig. 14), contains the oesophagus, the two pneumogastric nerves, the aorta, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. Before we examine the brachio-cephalic veins, we must remove a layer of the cervical fascia which descends from the neck over these veins and is lost upon the pericardium. The coats of all the great veins ai-e closely connected to this fascia; and its chief use appears to be to keep these veins always wide and open for the free return of the blood to the heart. Brachio- right and left brachio-cephalic (innominate) cephalic veins are formed, near the sternal end of the clavicle, reins. -^^ confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian. They differ in their course and relations, and must, therefore, be described separately. The left brachio-cephalic vein- passes behind the first bone of the sternum from the left towards the right side, to join the vena cava superior. It is about two inches and a half in length, and its direction inclines a little downwards. It crosses over the trachea and three primary branches of the arch of the aorta (p. 38). We are reminded of this fact in some cases of aneurism of these vessels; for what happens ? The vein becomes compressed between the aneurism and the sternum; hence the swelling and venous con- gestion of the parts from which it returns the blood; namely, of the left arm and left side of the neck. Observe, moreover, that the upper border of the vein lies not far from the upper border of the sternum; ia some instances it lies even higher, and I have seen it crossing in front of the trachea a full inch above the sternum. Eemember this in the performance of tracheotomy. The right brachio-cephalic vein descends nearly vertically to G 4gg VENA CAVA SUPEEIOR. ioiu the superior vena cava. It is about one and a half inch in leno-th and is situated about one inch from the mesial Ime of the sternum On its left side runs the corresponding arteria mno- minata; on its right side is the pleura. Between the vein and the pleura is the phrenic nerve. i • n- The veins which empty themselves into the left and right brachio-cephalic, are as follow : — ^ ■ ■ Tlip I.TFT B C. Vein receives: — The Right B. C. Vein receives: — , -Lie i^eft x>. v.. , T 1 The vertebral The vertebral „, -, • i T The deep cei-vical The deep cervical . , t, \ 1 „^ The internal mammary The internal mammary, . mi ^i -a - The middle thyroid « The superior intercostal The pericardiac. This is one of the great channels through which the Vena cava ^^^^^^e blood returns into the right auricle. It is superior. ^J^^^ Confluence of the right and left brachio- cephalic veins, which unite at nearly a right angle opposite the first intercostal space on the right border of the s ernum ; that is, abou the level of the highest point of the arch of the aorta p. 38). The „a descend! vertically with a slight inclination ^^^^^l^^ the upper part of the right auricle. It is from two and a half to three LhTlong. The lower half of it is covered by the pericardium; mu t/therefore, open this bag in order to see that the serous Cer of tie pericardium is reflected over the front and sides of the In respect to its relations, notice that the vein 1- m/-f If the right bronchus and the right pulmonary vessels, and that it is t i apped by the ascending aorta. In" the ^VVer^^^ f ^^ IZ, Z is, alove the pericardium, ^^^^^^^^Z:^ ^ by the pleura; on this side, in contact with it, descends ''B^l'iutcovered by the ^^--^X^^^^^^ the vena azygos, which comes in arching over the ^-^^^^^^^^^^^^^ The aorta is the great trunk from which all the Course and . ^ ^^^y carrying red blood are derived, it o1 Ws Lm the upper and back part of the left vei^ncle the aorta. 1^ origin is on the left side ot tJae89 ARCn OF THE AORTA. sternum, about the level of the third intercostal space. It ascends forwards and to the right as high as the first intercostal space on the right side; it then curves backwards towards the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and turning downwards over the thii-d, completes the arch. The direction of the arch, therefore, is from the sternum to the spine, and rather oblique from the right towards the left side. For convenience of description, we divide it into an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. Ascending portion. — To see this portion of the acJrta you must open the pericai-dium. You then observe that this part of the artery is covered all round by the serous layer of the pericardium, except where it is in contact with the pulmonary artery. Now what are its relations ? Its commencement is covered by the pulmonary artery, and overlapped by the appendix of the right auricle. On its right side, but on a posterior plane, descends the superior vena cava; on its left is the division of the pulmonary artery; behind it is part of the auricle, the right pulmonary artery, and the right bronchus. Transverse portion. — This portion of the aorta crosses in front of the trachea a little above its bifurcation. Near its summit runs the left vena innominata; within its concavity are the left bronchus, the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The transverse part of the arch is crossed by the left phrenic and the left pneumo-gastric nerves; and the recurrent branch of the left pneumo-gastric ascends behind it to the larynx. ^ Descending portion. — This part of the arch lies upon the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. On its right side are the oesophagus and thoracic duct; on its left is the pleiu-a. What parts are contained within the arch of the aorta?—The left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, the left recurrent nerve the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and the great cardiac ganglion. The arch of the aorta presents partial dilatations in certain situations. One of these, called the sinus or bulge of the aorta, is observed on the right side of the arch about the junction of he90 ARTERIA INNOMIKATA. ascending with the transverse portion; just where one might expect such a dilatation from the impulse of the blood. It is little marked in the infant, but increases with age. Three other dilatations (the sinuses of Valsalva), one corresponding to each of the valves at the commencement of the aorta, will be exammed * hereafter. _ r ^.^ ^ These relations vary according to the size ot the Heart, StlSrof the obliquity of the ribs, and the general development theaorta°to o{*the chest. In a weU-formed adult the ascending aorta the sternum. ^^^^ prominent part of its bulge, about half of an inch behind the first bone of the sternum. The highest part of the ar(!h is about one inch below the upper edge of the sternum.* , . ^ • r, f^r. From the upper part of the arch arise three great arteries for the head, neck, and upper limbs; namely, the brachio-cephahc or innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left subclavian. This arises from the commencement of the transverse Brachio-ce- ^^^^i. It ascends obliquely towards the SSnaT;"' right, and after a course of about one inch and a half, divides behind the right sterno-clavicular jomt into two arteries of nearly equal size-the right carotid, and the right sub- What are the relations of the innominate artery ? It ascends obliquely in front of the trachea; the right vena innommata de- scends on its right side ; the left vena innominata crosses in front of it : parallel and close to the artery are the slender cardiac nerves.f . The relation of *e are. ^ ^^^^^^^^^ OBpeciaUy if there he any 1^1?-^-?^^ ° ofT^hthilis. The position of the aortic xnay mention that of a young fem e w^^^^^^^^^^ ^.^1 ^.^^^ yalTes was opposite the michUe f. <f f°, . on a level vdth the second costal articulation. The highest paxt of J^\^'\^,i,.,H. in front of ^pper border of the sternum; the arteria ----^^^^ Jmuch above the the trachea • and the left vena innoimnata crossed the Uaciiea so i tU it ..uld have been dU-cctly exposed to injury ^^f^ ^^^^^ t In some cases the innominate artery ascends for a shoit '^'^{^"^ Cljvicle before it divides, lying close to the right of the trachea, ^^e have ah-eadyPHRENIC NERVES. 91 With the anatomy of the parts before you, it is easy to under- stand that an aneurism of the innominate artery might be distin- guished from an aneurism of the aorta — 1. By a pulsation in the neck between the sterno-mastoid muscles, i.e. in the fossa above the sternum; 2. By occasional dyspnoea owing to pressure on the trachea; 3. By venous congestion in the left arm; 4. By the aneurismal thrill being confined to the nght arm. This artery arises from the arch of the aorta close to mtoy?^°*^*^ the arteria innominata. It ascends obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum to the neck. In the first part of its coiu-se it lies upon the trachea, but it soon passes to the left side of the trachea, and then lies for a short distance upon the oesophagus. In the rest of its course it resembles the right carotid (p. 12.) This is the third branch of the arch. It ascends out vi^ artery." chest to the inner border of the first rib, and then ciu-ves outwards behind the scalenus anticus. In the first part of its course it is deeply seated, and is covered on its left side by the plerua. Close to its right side is the oesophagus; be- tween it and the cesophagiis we find the thoracic duct. Like the other primary branches of the arch it is crossed by the left brachio- cephalic vein. The upper part of its course, where the vessel passes in front of the apex of the lung, has been described with the anatomy of the neck (p. 39.) Course of '^^^ phrenic nerve comes from the third, fourth, and the phrenic cervical nerves. It descends over the scalenus tWgh the enters the chest between the subclavian chest. vein and artery. It then descends in front of the root of the lung between the pleura and the pericardium to the diaphragm (fig. 15) which muscle it supplies. In what respects do the phrenic nerves differ from each other in their course ?—The right phrenic runs along the outer side of the innominate vein and superior vena cava; the left crosses in front aUuded to tlie hc.t that it occasionally gives oif a middle tliyroid artery (p 16) which ascends m front of the trachea to the tliyroid l>ody, and is therefore directly in the way in traclieotoniy.92 PHRENIC NERVES. of the transverse part of the arch of the aorta; besides which, the left is rather longer than the right, because it has to go round the point of the heart.* Fig. 15. 3rd cervical n. 4ih cervical n. Pneumogas- tric a. . ■ 5th cervicaln. Brachial plexus Phrenic n. . . Line of reflec- tion of peri, carilium. Cervicalis ascendens a.| Scalenus amicus. Inferior thyroid a. Superficialis colli a. —Phrenic n. Posterior scapular a. Supra scapular a. Suhclavian a. Superior intercostal a. Internal mammary a. Pneumogastric n. Phrenic n. Appendix of left auricle. On the upper surface of the diaphragm the phrenic divides into * In the Tipper part of the M the phi-enic is sometimes joined by a branch from the brachial plexus, and less fre<iueutly by a branch from the descendens nom.DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. 93 a number of branches, which are distributed, some to the greater, others to the lesser crus of the muscle.* Having studied these dry anatomical details, consider for a moment what kind of symptoms are likely to be produced by an anem-ism of the ai'ch of the aorta, or any of the primary branches. A glance at the important pai-ts in the neighbourhood will answer the question. The effects will vary according to the part of the artery which is the seat of the anemism, and, according to the volume, the form, and the position of the tumor. One can understand that compression of the vena cava superior, or either of the brachio- cephalic veins, would occasion swelling and congestion of the parts from which it returns the blood; that compression of the trachea or one of the bronchi might occasion dyspnoea, and thus simulate disease of the larynx f; that compression of the oesophagus would give rise to symptoms of stricture. Nor must we forget the imme- diate vicinity of the thoracic duct and the recurrent nerve J, and the effects which would be produced by their compression. Can one, then, be surprised that a disease which may give rise to so ■ many different symptoms should be a fertile source of fallacy in diagnosis ? You can easily see how aneurisms of the aorta prove fatal, by bursting into the contiguous tubes or cavities; for instance, into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pleura, or the pericardium. You will see too, -^hj an anem-ism of the first part of the arch is so much more dangerous than elsewhere. The reason is, that in this part of its course the aorta is covered only by a thin layer of serous membrane: now if an aneurism take place here, the coats of the vessel soon become distended, give way, and allow the blood to escape into the pericardium; an occurrence which is speedily fatal. * Does the phi-enic ever send filaments to the pericardium ? In some cases it unquestionably does; hence possibly the pain in the arm and shoulder in some diseases of the heart. 1- In the Museum of *Guy's Hospital there is a preparation, No. 1487 in wliieh laiyngotomy was performed under the cii-cumstanees described in the text ' I See Med. Gaz., Dec. 22nd, 1843. A case in which loss of voice was produced by the pressure of an aneunsmal tumor upon the left recurrent nerve.94 I-OSITION OF THE nEAllT. \3ecause, the pericardium being filled with blood, prevents the heart from acting. The heart is situated obliquely in the chest, between the lungs. Its base, i.e., the part by which it is at- lieart. tached, and from which its great vessels proceed, is n, AT^ TTS VALTES WITH llEGAHD TO THE WAILS OF niXATmi POSITION OF THE HEART AOT ITS AALTES THE CHEST. , , ■, , A i.-nns The aortic valves iU-e opposite the third in- The calves axe deBoted by cm-red hnes. e «o pulmonary valves are tereostal space on the left side, close to « eim^m^ 1 just above the aortic, opposite the junction of the thml ^^J^^J^ ^ ,f iitral valves are opposite the '^'"'^^^^^^ about the the sternum. The tricuspid valves lie behind '^^^'^^ ^ l^T L propagated level of the foui-th lib. Aortic murmurs, as shown J2 the up the aorta: mitral murmurs, as shown by the anw, are propagated towa apex of the heait.POSITION OF THE HEART. 95 directed upwards towards the right shoulder ; its apex points down- wards and to the left, between the fifth and sixth ribs. It is main- tained in its position by a membranous bag termed the "peri- cardium ; " which is lined by a polished membrane to facilitate its movements. It is supported by the tendinous centre of the dia- phragm. Cut open the pericardium, and observe that the heart is conical in form, and convex every where except upon its lower surface, which is flat, and rests upon the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. But this general observation is not sufficient. You must notice the several objects exposed, when the pericardium is thus laid open; they are as follow: —1. Part of the right ventricle ; 2. Part of the left ventricle; 3. Part of the right auricle with its appendix over- lapping the root of the aorta; 4. The appendix of the left auricle overlapping the root ofthe pulmonary artery; 5. The aorta; 6. The ptilmonary artery; 7. The vena cava superior. The heart then is placed behind the lower half of the sternum, occupies more of the left than the right half of the chest, and rests upon the central tendon of the diaphragm, which is nearly on a plane with the lowest part of the fifth rib. At each contraction the apex of the heart may be felt beating between the fifth and sixth ribs, about two inches below the nipple, and one inch on its sternal side. Prsecordial " pr<BCorclial region » is the outline of the heart region. traced upon the front wall of the chest. We ought to be able to define this region with something like pre- cision. We should know how much of this region is covered and separated from the wall of the chest by intervening lung (fig. 17. p. 96). Here then is the rule:—Let the middle of the^'fiftli costal cartilage be the centre of a-circle two inches in diameter- ■this ch-cle will define well enough for all practical purposes, that part of the precordial region which is naturally less resonant to percussion than the rest; for here the heart is uncovered excent bv pericardium and loose cellular tissue, and is very near the wdl of the chest. In the rest of the precordial region the heart is cov ed and separated from the chest by the intervening kmc- Where must we put the stethoscope when we listen to the valvesgg POSITION OF THE HEART. Of the heart? For practical purposes it is enough to remember that the mouth of an ordinary-sized stethoscope will cover a pc:Ln of Lm all, if it be placed a little to the left of the me.al line of the sternum opposite the third intercostal space (hg. lb, Fig. 17. ITS VAXTBS. M). They axe all covered by a j;'^»e1ve'"lS:n 1 ^ reason we a^k a patient to stop breathing while 'The position of the heart alt- a little with the posmon of^ tU^ hody. Of this any one -^/t. oHSs side ard o'n that, lately forwards and b^Uwards by ly-S - this side^^^^.^^ ^^^^^ placing at the same time the hand upon w fPERICARDIUM. 97 He will find that he can, in a slight degree, alter the place and the extent of the impulse of the heart; and the reason is obvious. Inspiration and expiration also alter the position of the heart. In inspiration the heart descends with the tendinous centre of the diaphragm about half an inch. Perieaxdium. pericardium is the membranous bag which en- closes the heart and the large vessels at its base. It is attached below to the tendinous centre of the diaphragm; above, it is lost on the gi-eat vessels of the heart, and is connected with the cervical fascia. On each side it is covered by the plem-a. In front of it is the anterior mediastinum; behind it, the pos- terior. ^ Of all the objects in the posterior mediastinum, that which is nearest to the pericardium is the oesophagus. It is worth remembering that the oesophagus is in close contact with the back of the pericardium for nearly two inches; this fact accounts for what one sometimes observes in cases of pericarditis where there is much effusion; I mean pain and difficulty in swallowing. The pericardium is what is called a "fihro serous " membrane. Its fibrous layer, which constitutes the chief strength of it, is external. This layer, as just now stated, is attached below to the central tendon of the diaphragm. Above it forms eight sheaths for the vessels at the base of the heart; namely, one for'the vena cava superior, four for the pulmonary veins, two for the pul- monary arteries, and one for the aorta. The serous layer forms a shut sac. It lines the fibrous layer, and is reflected over the great vessels and the heart. The best way to see where the serous layer is reflected over the vessels, is to distend the pericardium with air. Thus you will find that this layer is reflected over the aorta as high as the origin of the arteria innominata. It is reflected over the vena cava superior, after the entrance of the vena azygos.* will rr.^ T^? ^^^^'^t^ons of the serous layer of the poricardiufflTHE LUNGS. 9o ■ How mua large. i» the ^r^^^Z^J^lX^..^ - healthy state the .-P^'^f .trt'^CStended its utmost, responds to '^/{''''^''Z heart » «(u, may be made io The healthy pericardium, with tHe nea periearfium is hold, in the adult, ahout ten ounces of to*^ J^^^ ,,^ed, notextensihle. "sion'of the heart in not by the loss of ""^ ° ^ conscience of the inexteusibi ity tae^^^^^^ The pericardium d--/f,/°tt afforded by local — nh::r"Er~»tely into the ca^^^hi* formoftUe of the heart. therefore, is conical m form , tne | contains It. Each, therelor , ^^^^ ^ ha.e rests on the diaphrapn; the ap'^^ P J ^^^^ ^,pted . ahove the sternal end of ^a-d^ ^ ^^^^ „„„ for the « to the ribs; its inner surface is exca ^^^^^^^ ^ , heart. But the best ^y^^f^^^J^t to taking a cast o each the trachea with wax, wtach ^« ^^^j^,, the general con- thoracic cavity. , Jto, you would find in the right verities and concaviUes ^""^^^^^t hrachio-cephalic vein in the ;r:^t:::^"hra:r o4e aort. and the left —an ^T.h lung is ^^^ZJ^^"^^^^ !;r,Vd';teX-u^^^^^^^^ tL the fifth costal cartilage. ^ ^„rt.ou, is divided by a second fissure, wH called the " middle lobe. ^^^^ and aboYe by the r ght puim j pericardium. The ^^P^ ^ ^ little lies on the auricles, is covered by the^ ^ p^^onary artery^ ^ i round, except behind ^^^^^^ / ^ pericardium is also covered aU ro^^^ there is of the inferior ea- -^h- ^^^^ess so^ Beh^99 THE LUNGS. The dimensions of the right lung are greater than those of the left in all directions except the vertical; the reason of this excep- tion is the greater elevation of the diaphragm on the right side, by the bulk of the liver. On an average, the right lung is to the left, in point of size, as 11 to 10. To understand rightly the shape and play of the lungs in in- spiration and expiration, cut away the intercostal muscles and the pleura, without wounding the lungs, and then distend the lungs by blowing into the trachea with bellows. By this proceeding you will learn much that is worth knowing. Thus, you will ascertain how far the front edge of the lung overlaps the peri- cardium; how low the lung descends between the ribs and the diaphragm on the side and at the back of the chest. You will see the great gap in the left lung for the point of the heart. By making the lung expand and contract, you will observe how it sHdes along the pleural lining of the chest. This sliding takes place in health without the least noise. But when the naturally smooth and polished surface of the pleura becomes roughened by inflammatory deposit, a sound of greater or less distinctness (friction sound) is occasioned by the rubbing of the opposite surfaces. The practical result of this investigation should be to enable us to trace upon a Hving chest the outline of the lungs, that we may know what parts are naturally resonant on percussion. Commencing, then, from above, (fig. 17, p. 96), we find that the apex of the lung rises into the neck from half an inch to an inch above the sternal end of the clavicle. This part of the lung mounts up behind the subclavian artery and the anterior scalene muscle, and deserves especial attention, because it is, more than any other, obnoxious to tubercular disease. From the sternal end of the clavicles the lungs converge towards the mesial line, where their edges almost meet opposite the junction of the second rib There is little or no lung behind the first bone of the sternum. From the level of the second costal cartilage to the level of the fourth the inner margins of each kmg run parallel and almost close behmd the middle of the sternum ; consequently they over- lap the great vessels at the root of the heart.100 . w the level of the fourth costal cartilage the margins of the Below the levei oi ^^^^ degree, ibe lungs diverge from each other, ^^^^ J \ „ nearly in curve it projects more or "''^^^^rthe — » low as the attacliment of the ,i^U, costal oarti- outwards, corresponds ^ f ^ ,te pericardium, lage. Hypertrophy of ^o^^"^; ° j.^el the poirrt where the ^1 ,0, 0Bly ra.se aho e ^^^^ ,ence the lungs diverge, but also m greater dulness on P^^^" ,,^es down as low as the Laterally, the margm of Yr°tenth rih. eighth rib; posteriorly, as '^^^ZXl^^-^ ^« As the lungs are co^^^i^^^;'^ f ° membrane to Pleuxa. ,1,, ehest, they are provided w^h a serous This membrane is termcvx ^ facilitate theur °'*"-/''Each pleura forms a completely closed There is ouefor each lung- Each p sac, aud is disposed rke all ^ „tter is reflected over the sac Hues the coutammg ca^y, wh ^^^^ the coutaiued orgau. Ite ^ rf^s is called " pleura to which they adhere : that which^me^ ^ costaUs;» that which f°'>=°f f^^^f p'ulmoualis." Uulike ^Us-," that which -vers the tog P ^ called the peritoueum the pleura tosu ^^^ ^^^^ „f "ligamenturo latum pulmouis the lung to tte diaphra^- „f pleural sax;, (fig. U, If asked to i^-*^ ™^the rihs aud part of the sternum; p. 86), I should say that^t hues th ^^^^ pexicardruua from the sternum it is ^^^f-^^ j „,„t of the luug, and so from thence it passes over the front o ^^^^ , „u over the ^-^^^'^^'l,'t..r^Z,.ni thus reaches the is reflected over the siaes ui ribs again. , „ ^ «posterior» mediastina formed The spaces called "anterior ana p hy the pleuroe, 1 have already described, p. 87.101 PLEURA. In health the internal surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and lubricated by moisture sufficient to facilitate the sUding of the lung. When this surface is thickened and roughened by inflam- mation, the moving lung produces a " friction " sound. When the pleural sac is distended by serum, it constitutes hydro-thorax; when by pus, " empyema." Take an opportunity of introducing your hand iAo the pleural sac, and ascertain that the reflection of the pleura on to the dia- phragm corresponds with an imaginary line commencing at the lower part of the sternum, and sloping along the cartilages of the successive ribs down to the lower border of the last rib. Now suppose a musket ball were to lodge in the pleiual sac, it would fall upon the dome of the diaphragm, and roll down to the lowest part of the pleural cavity. The place, therefore, to extract it would be in tlie back, at the eleventh intercostal space. This operation has been done during life with success. Posterior "^^^ posterior mediastmum (p. 87) is formed by mediasti- the reflection of the pleural sac on each side, from co"^tente/'' of the lung to the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. It is bounded in front by the pericardium. To obtain a view of it, draw the right lung out, and fasten it to the left side. This mediastinum contains the aorta; in front of the aorta, the oesophagus, with the pneumogastric nerves; on the right of the aorta is the vena azygos; between this vein and the aorta is the thoracic duct. To expose all these we have only to remove the pleura, and a layer of tolerably firm fascia which lines the chest outside the pleura. Thoracic ^^^^ already traced the arch of the aorta to the aorta. ^^ft side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. From this point the aorta descends on the left side of the spine, gradually approaching towards the mesial line. Oppo- site the last dorsal vertebra it passes between the crm-a of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. Its left side is covered by pleura: on its right side run the vena azygos and thoracic duct; in front of it, and nearer to the mesial line, is the oesophagus. Its branches will be described presently. H 3This vein commences in the abdomen by small Fig. 18. ^Q., VENA AZYG08. even the vena cava itself. T^^is, indeed, is the main point about the origin of the vena azygos, that it communicates directly or m- directly with the vena cava in- ferior. It enters the chest through the aortic opening of the dia- 1 ,^0 r\r\ fVlft riETDt INTERCOS': V . RICH BRONCHUS the aortiu ujj^^^-^a Tjhragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta through the pos- terior mediastinum. When the vein reaches the level of the third dorsal vertebra, it arches over the right bronchus, and terminates m the superior vena cava just before this vessel is covered by pericar- dium. In it. course it receives nine or ten of the lower mter- costal, the spinal veins, the oeso- phageal, and commonly-the right bronchial veins. But another ve»,caUed«.^ a,ygoe miW runs up the kfl si/Zofthespme. Thisvemcom- ^euces in the abdomen by sn>dl branches oommunicaUng with the inferior caTa, and MCends on the eft side ot the aorta. On a leve .ith the sixth or seventh do.^ vertebra, it passes beneath the aorta and joins »re°%"3e • five or six of the lower iotereostal veins of the left srde. Tt receives nve or six ui i^">^ None of these veins are v The answer is, it What is tlie purpose of the a^y^os is supplemental to the vena cava.103 THORACIC DUCT. CESOPHAGUS. The thoracic duct (fig. 18) is the canal through which duct''"'' contents of the lacteal vessels from the intestines and the absorbent vessels from the lower limbs are conveyed into the blood. These vessels converge to a general receptacle, termed receptaculum chyli, situated in front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. From this receptacle, the duct passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm into the chest, and runs up the posterior mediastinum along the right side of the aorta. Near the third dorsal vertebra, it passes under the oesophagus, and ascends on the left side of this tube between it and the left sub- clavian artery as high as the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it describes a curve with the convexity upwards, and opens into the back part of the confluence of the lefb internal jugular and subclavian veins. The orifice of the duct is guarded by two valves which permit fluid to pass from the duct into the vein, but not vice versa. Valves too, disposed like those in the venous system, are placed at short intervals along the duct, so that its contents can only pass one way. The duct is not much larger than a crow-quill; its walls are thin and transparent.* (Esophagus. " cesophagus " is that part of the alimentary canal which conveys the food from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences about the fifth cervical vertebra, that is, nearly opposite the cricoid cartilage, runs down the posterior mediastinum in front of the descending aorta, and passes through a special opening in the diaphragm to the stomach. It is from nine to ten inches long. Its course is not exactly vertical: in the neck, it lies to the left of the trachea; in the chest, i.e. about the fourth dorsal vertebra, it inclines towards the right side, to make way for the aorta; but it again inclines to the left before it perforates the diaphragm. * It is right to state that the thoracic duct varies in size in different individuals I have seen it of all sizes, intermediate between a crow-qiiiU and a goose-qum ' It may divide in its course into two branches, which subsequently reunite • instead of one, there may be several terminal orifices. Instances have been obsei-v^d in which the duct has terminated on the right instead of the left side (Fleischman, Leichon ^ffiiungen, 1815). It has been seen to terminate in the vena azygos (MiiUer's Archies, U 4104 PNEUMOGASTIUC IN THE CHEST. observe t« the -p.ap .e^. 'rXXtl^i; t pathetic. . a muscular and a umcous; and these are very J , ^ a distinct eoat. areola, tissu,, ^Mch some and an inner The museular coat consists of an outer J ^ The circular layer offihres. Both ar^ arranged all round longitudinal layer is P"^™'"'? ^^^^i^. The mucous mem- tte oesophagus so as to ^^^^^and in the lower end of the cesophagus. ^^^^^^ chest The right pneumogastnc nerve ^p. ; Co.se and ...^een the subclavian -^^^ .^/^^^it to rptrl side of the trachea, ^1^- behrn^^^^^^^ ^^.^^ g-tric ti,e posterior surface of t^e cBSopn j nerves. .-, 1-.rnTirheS, whlch torm a piejs-uo yi- divides mto hranches ^ ^^^^ a,,eends into oesophageal) upon the tube. The J^' ? ^^^=1,^ carotid arteries, the chest between the left f^^^^^ t^en passes behind the crosses in front of the arch of he a i ^ ^ ieftbronohus to the —.^^^ "Jageal). The branches of the it also forms a pl«"^^''^''X^t are i follow : - pueumogastric nerve m the chest T,is nerve on the a. TU injerwr "™ tery, on the left under the right side turns under the ^' it supplies with arch of the aorta, and '^""^'J" '^^ \{,„n the rima glottidis uiotor power -"^^^'-^'^n^;^<^^-l^^^'^^■^^'''^ "'""^ except the crico-thyroid (supplied by tne pSYMPATHETIC IN THE CHEST. 105 b. Cardiac branches.—These are very smaU, and join the cardiac plexus. c. Pulmonary branches.— These accompany the bronchial tubes. The greater number are seen behind the root of the lung, forming the posterior pulmonary plexus. A few, forming the anterior pulmonary plexus, proceed over the front of the lung's root. Both these plexuses are joined by filaments from the sympathetic system. But the nerves of the lungs are very smaU, and cannot be traced far into their substance.* d. (Esophageal plexus.—We have already mentioned that below the root of the lung each pneumogastric nerve is subdivided so as to form an interlacement of nerves round the oesophagus (plexus ~ guise). From this plexus numerous filaments supply the coats of the tube; but the majority of them are collected into two or more nerves, which pass with the oesophagus through the diaphragm for the supply of the stomach. Having examined the contents of the posterior mediastinum from the right side, now do so from the left. Turn the left liing out of its cavity and fasten it towards the right side. After re- moving the pleura, we see the descending thoracic aorta, the pneumogastric nerve crossing the arch and sending the recurrent branch through it; also the first part of the course of the left sub- clavian covered externaUy by pleura. Trace the pneumogastric nerve behind the left bronchus to the CBsophagus, and dissect the oesophageal plexus on this side. Lastly, notice the lesser vena azygos which crosses under the aorta about the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, and joins the vena azygos major. Thoracic por- There are generally twelve ganglia in the thoracic XSetic. P'^'^^^^ sympathetic, one over the head of each nr , , X, ^^V^^'^'"' ^""^ S^^'S^'^' because one Each ganglion receives branches from the corresponding spinal nerve. The nerves proceeding from the ganglfa sup;irre ». Upon this subject, see the boautifd plates of Scarpa.SYMPATHETIC IN THE CHEST. Tliey are as follow :— TO THE HEART TO THE LUNGS 106 thoracic and part of the abdominal viscera, K!u^Sn7L from the first and second ganglia to the cardiac Fig. 19. b. Minute nerves from the third and fourth ganglia to the fvXvwnanj •plexus. c The greater splanchnic nerve. — This is generally formed by branches from the sixth to the tenth ganglion. The branches descend obliquely along the sides of the bodies of the verte- brJE, and unite into a single nerve, ^vhich passes through the correspond- ing crus of the diaphragm and joins the semilunar ganglion of the ab- domen. d The lesser splanchmc nerve.— This is commonly formed by branches from the eleventh and twelfth gangha. It passes through the crus of the dia- phragm to the renal plexus.* The intercostal muscles Intercostal Qccupy the intervals be- tween the ribs. Between each ribtherearetwo layers of muscles which cross each other like the letter X The external layer runs obhqueiy from behind, forwards, like the ex- oK xHB s^p^TH.... ternal oblique muscle of the abdomen from before backwards like the internal The internal layer runs from oe ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^ oblique. Observe that a few ^^^^^^ ^ ^o^vn. oneoreven two ribs ; and term . I„ a few instances we ^a.e t..ccd a .«n^^^^^^^^^^^ (CruvoUhier). the body of a vertebra. According to a cclc each vertebra receives one. ^^^^ jj SOLAR PLEXUS DCNftL PLEXUS T^I^GBAMOF THBTHOBACIC POBTIOK OF THE SYMPATHETIC.INTERCOSTAL VESSELS. 107 But neither of these layers extend all the way between the sternum and the spine: for the outer layer, beginning at the spine, ceases at the cartilages of the ribs; while the inner, com- mencing at the sternum, ceases at the angles of the ribs. The intercostal muscles present a curious intermixture of tendi- nous and fleshy fibres ; and they are covered both inside and out- side the chest by a glistening fascia, to give greater protection to the»intercostal spaces. The external intercostal muscles elevate the ribs, and are there- fore muscles of inspiration. The internal intercostal muscles de- press the ribs, and are therefore muscles of expiration. Intercostal ^^^""^ ^'"^^^^^ intercostal arteries on each side, i arteries. ^he two upper are supplied by the intercostal branch of the subclavian; the remaining ten are supplied by the aorta: and since this vessel lies rather on the left side of the spine, the right intercostal arteries are longer than the left. The upper intercostal arteries from the aorta ascend obliquely to reach their intercostal spaces; the lower run more transversely. Havin<y reached the intercostal space, each artery divides into an anteriol and a posterior branch. The anterior branch, in direction and size, appears to be the continuation of the common trunk. At first it runs along the i middle of the ^ntercostal space, and is separated from the cavitv of f the chest by the pleura and intercostal fascia. Here, therefore it ns liable to be injured by a woimd in the back. But near ^he angle of the rib it passes between the intercostal muscles, and occupies the groove m the lower border of the rib. Here too it gives off a branch, which runs for some distance along the' upper iborder of the rib below, and is lost in the muscles. Income cas I have seen this branch as large as the intercostal itself and t~r:hr "-^"^ ---^ — of t^^^c^irri^^Zst^^-T^:^ between the sternum and the spine, each gives off .tma b 7 .vhich accompanies the lateral cutaneous bi.nch of rin,,^^^^^^lost between the layers of the abdo- culate with branches of the inter- DIAGBAM OF A SPINAL NEETI!. IQQ INTERCOSTAL NEKVES. nerve The continued trunk, gradually decreasing in size, becomes very small towards the anterior part of its space, and is placed ^ . more in the middle of it. Ihose of the true intercostal spaces inos- nal mammary: those of the false are minal muscles. * The posterior branch passes back- wards between the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae, to the muscles and skin of the back. Each sends an artery through the intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. The intercostal veins terminate in the vena azygos. These a.e the anterior divisions of the spi""^; I.te«,B,d Eeniember that each spinal nerve ar«s t^^'J"^^ cord by two roots-an anterior or motor root, a postenor or sensitive root. The sensitive ^/^f ^j^^ J^l Xtn ^SofL; postiior ^ch Jhe — ceeds along the ;;irin l cov,rse it suppUes rSt^rt^ —n^ar^lcntaneons and a. — "^rrver: the ^rst dorsa. -e . -e.;^ - the first intercostal ^V^!-'^^'^^^^Zt:^^V^^^-^- the first rih, and contnbutes f ™ f ited near the Intercostal absorbent S''«'^-r2!en the layers of the inter- heads of the ribs ; there are some tetween the Ijr costal muscles. They .-e of ^^^l:^j:lZV^,^,ul glands vessels into the thoracic duct. I have seen enlaj-ged and diseased in phthisis.CARDIAC PLEXUS. 109 Bronciual Small arteries, arising from the concavity of the and oesopha- arch of the aorta, accompany the bronchial tube into ge. areue. substance of the lung. Their distribution and office will be considered with the anatomy of the lung. Other arteries proceed from the front of the descending aorta to supply the oesophagus. Having finished the posterior mediastinum, replace the lung and turn your attention once more to the great vessels at the root of the heart. This vessel carries the impure blood from the heart arter^.^*^ lungs. It proceeds from the right ventricle, crosses obliquely in front of the root of the aorta, and on the left side of that vessel divides into two branches, one for each lung. The right branch passes through the arch of the aorta to the right lung; the left is easily followed to its corresponding lung by removing its investing layer of pericardium. Draw towards the left side the first part of the arch of the aorta, and dissect the pericardium from the great vessels at the base of. the heart. Thus a good view wiU be obtained of the trachea and its bifurcation into the two bronchi. Below the division of the trachea the right puhnonary artery is seen passing in front of the right bronchus. The superior vena cava is seen descending in front of, and nearly at right angles to, the right pulmonary artery. The vena azygos is also seen arching over the - right bronchus and terminating in the vena cava. Notice, especially, a number of absorbent glands called « bronchial," at the angle of birfurcation of the trachea. The.situation of these glands in the rStof so many tubes explains the variety of symptoms which may be pro- duced by their enlargement. Cardiac The nerves of the heart are derived from the pneu- plexus of mogastric and from the cervical ganglia of the sympa- thetic. A general description of them will suffice The cardiac nerves of the right side descend chiefly behmd the arch of the aorta; those of the'right} chiefly in front of the ai'ch The nerves from both Sides, however, converge towards the posterior part of the arch of the aorta. Here they form a plexus called theCARDIAC PLEXUS. 110 ronary arterie^ to the heart. Those which accompany the antenor Fig. 21. DIAGRAM SHOWiri" x^nSTTION OF THE VALVES ixi^ ....TXVB --™-^-:;:,^okT™ -KT.C A.. H.TKA. M.K..HS ABB ABKO^vs nroicATE the dibection PB.OPAGATED. eo.onary a.e.y form "::::^'SITJZ^^^ ^^^V^' terior coronary plexus proceeas part of the heart.Ill DISSECTION OF THE HEART. But it is, not an easy matter to trace the nerves into the sub- stance of the heart. For this purpose a horse's heart is the best, , and previous maceration in water is desirable. The nerves in the substance of the heart are peculiar in this respect; that they pre- sent minute ganglia in their course, which are presumed to preside over the rhythmical contractions of the heart. Constituents ^^^^ ^side the margin of the right lung; divide the SeacYl^.. ^^P^"^^ cava above the vena azygos, and turn °- down the lower part. Eemove the layer of pericardium which covers the pulmonary veins, and the constituent parts of the root of the right lung will be exposed. They lie from before backwards in the following order:—In front are the two pulmonary vems: behind the veins are the subdivisions of the pulmonary arteiy; and behind the artery are the divisions of the bronchus. From above downwards they are disposed thus :—On the right side we find — 1st, the bronchus; 2nd, the artery; 3rd, the veins. On the left, we find: —1st, the artery; 2nd, the bronchus; 3rd, the vems, as shown in fig. 21. DISSECTION OF THE HEAET. It is presumed that you are familiar with the general form of the heart, described at page 94. You should notice the longitudinal grooves on the upper and lower surfaces of the heart, indicating the dmsions of the ventricles, and the circular groove near the base, mdicatmg the separation between the ventricles and auricles or leTsSr'' coronary vessels, and by mor^ The heart is a double organ; that is, it is composed of two hearts, a nght and a left, separated by a septum. Each consists of an auneie and a ventricle, which commmiicate by a wide or fice he nght heart propels the blood through the lungs, and is calLd the pul^omc; the left propels the blood through L body andt called the systemic. True, these two hearts are not placed anar because important advantages result from their miion b. 1^ ' enclosed in a single bag they occupy less room in the"hest ani precisely synchro-DISSECTION OF THE HEART. m-t, We shall examine the cavimes oi T^a. the Wood 0— t^- „f This is situated at the rigm o tetween the hea^t, aud tonns a „ J'^Ci ite frout two vense oa™, from which l^^^^Xit J^'^^^V^ the root of do^LaHn shape; a^iofwrfrr'apefof the appeuda,e t.a..e.se„ across rig. 22, Avuictdo-veBtricular orifice . Fossa oralis Opening of the coronary vein Line of Eustachian valve . • te :peL eav. O^^^^^^^Z, except in the appen^; merohrane, and that it is everj bundles, oaUed, troni Xe the muscular fibres ..™«o«ii their resemhlanoe *^*f * °L ed<.es of the auriculo-Teutii- Xh" radiate from the auricles '^^/^"^^^ ,ena. cavs: they !ute opening. Ob-rve the ope»^g- <> jor is situated on a ™e not directly opposite to <'a'='^^^^'\J the streams of blood may , .other in front of the interior, tnar i , tendmous plane f^^or cava, after passmg throu^n not meet.DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 113 centre of the diaphragm, makes a slight curve to the left before it opens into the auricle: and the reason of this is that the stream of its blood may be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. The orifice of each vena cava is nearly circular, and is surrounded by a few muscular fibres continuous with those of the auricle. The left wall of the auricle is formed by the " septum auricu- larum." Upon this septum, above the orifice of the vena cava inferior, is an oval depression {fossa ovalis), bounded by a pro- minent border (annulus ovalis), (fig. 22). This depression marks the position of the opening (foramen ovale) through which the auricles communicated in foetal life. After birth this opening closes; but if the closure is imperfect, the stream of dark blood in the right auricle mixes with the florid blood in the left, and occa- sions what is called "morbus coiruleus.'''' Extending from the anterior margin of the vena cava inferior to the anterior border of the fossa ovalis, is seen in young subjects a thin fold of the lining membrane of the heart: it is the remains of what was, in foetal life, the Eustachian* valve. The direction of this valve in the foetus is such that it directs the current of blood from the inferior cava towards the foramen ovale. It is a valve of considerable size in the foetus, and contains a few muscular fibres ; but after birth it gi-adually disappears, being no longer required.' To the left of this — that is, between the remains of the Eustachian valve and the auriculo-ventricular opening —is the orifice of the coronary vein; it is covered by a semicircular valve, called «valvula Thebesii." Here and there upon the posterior wall of ^e auricle may be observed minute openings called "foramina Thebesii:" they are the orifices of small veins returning blood from the substance of the heart. Lastly, to the left and rather in front of the orifice of the vena cava inferior is the auriculo-ventri- cular opening. It is oval in form, and admits the passage of three fingers. ^ Eight yen- '''^^^ ^^^^^^ about twO-thirds of tricle. the upper surface of the heart. To examine its interior a triangular flap should be raised from its anterior walh * Eustaeliius, Libell. de yena aine pari.DISSECTION OF THE HEART. T,e ape. of tU. flap should be f^^'^ ■'^^^:::;T^^:■^' ,ig, li Ibe ventricle, tbe other - f ^^^^ ^ tUeker se;tum. We observe that the wall °"'«/«fi, conical, ttL that of tbe auricle The cav*, f^nds of ^ith its ba.e upwards and to the "S" Jts p muscular fibres (columns <^''^^)'^J'^'^l^Ztcnl^ networkis ,hioh cross ea«h other m every direct on • * ^^^^ <^„e=e generally filled with coagulated blood, f the ^ere ar'e three i-^--»%^^;;tvrtrSle by t^tir extremities ventricle; another ^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ -I called "« only; a thud, ;^nd by far the ^ P Je the pcptteres is fixed by one extremtj j^^ii^ous cords !ther extremity gi-^^tt'^ttB tct on oftL tricuspid valve. tetltf rLtet;%e= of those in the right tutricle, one proceeds from tl,esep urn. There are "P'^T^^i'^iil fte blood passes from the auricle, is placed J ^tt,,ted the tricuspid valve. ^ ri„g of fibrous »f ™ „f tie ventricle, a smooth passage From the upper and front « . __ of the pul- ("i'^Z-r'^^t""—ttheTa Ld in front of the monary artery. It is sit „( an inch higher, auriculo-ventricular and about^* i^^^ This IS situated attherig ^ j^j^ Tricmpid Like all the valves of the hearr, the lining membrane » ^ is attached rtrengthened by fibrous tissue The ba ^^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ to the tendinous ring round the op«i ^^.^^^ tatermediate three principal ^''"8"'^' «Xee principal flaps, the largest is so flaps of smaller size. Of the 1 ' the orifice of the placed that when not in action it partially pulmonary ai-tcry. tendinous cords which regulate Observe the arrangement of the tendino115 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. the action of the valve. In the first place they are all attached to the ventricular surface of the valve. Secondly, the tendinous cords proceeding from a given papillary muscle are attached to the ad- ■ jacent halves of two of the larger flaps, and to a smaller inter- mediate one; consequently, when the ventricle contracts, and the papillary muscle also, the adjacent borders of the flaps will be ap- proxiinated. Thirdly, to insure the strength of every part of the valve, the tendinous cords are inserted at three different points of it in straight lines; accordingly, they are divisible into three sets. Those of the first are attached to the base of the valve; those of the second to the middle of it; those of the third to its loose border.* Pulmonaiy These are three membranous folds situated at the ori- or^semiluBar fice of the puhnonary artery. Their convex borders are attached to the fibrous ring at the root of the artery; their free edges present a festooned border, in the centre of which is a little cartilaginous body called the "nodulus," or "corpus ArantU:' The use of these little bodies is very obvious. Since the valves are semilunai-, when they fall together they would not exactly close the artery; there would be a space of a triangular form left between them in the centre, just as there is when we put the thumb, fore, and middle fingers together. This space is filled by the Httle bits of cartilage, so that the septum becomes complete. The valves are composed of a fold of the "endocardium," or hmng membrane of the heart. But since this would not of itself be sufficiently strong, we find between the folds a thin layer of fibrous J The best mode of she jii^g the action of the valve is to introduce a glass tube into the pulmonary artery, and then to pour water through it into the ventricle u^tU Z cavity IS quite distended. By gently squeezing the ventricle in the hS aitifieiany to imitate its natural contraction, the fricuspid valv tp 'TcJ ll" flood-gate, and close the am-icxdo-ventrieular opening In this wavoL . . how, when the ventricle contracts, the blood catchers tie ^^JZ l^^^^^^ Its pressure gives it the proper distension and figure requisite to bLl ' ''''^ into the auricle. It is obvious that the tend^Lrs ^Z^ J^lT ^'F, " being pushed too far back into the auricle • and this m,^7« ^ T ^'"''^^ muscles, which nicely adjust the degree of SnsL^ o^S^eoX ■ would otherwise be too much slackened by the contractioVof 11'ntS. " ^'^^DISSECTION OF THE HEART. tta artery. Observe, lj°««=-^> f^' ' Ji^t, only; namely at xeaches the free edge of the ™lve at three P J ^^^^^^ the ceutre, or corpus Araatu and at «^ ^ tion of these points it stops short and » simply of endo- the vSve thinner than ''^^ ' ^"^J^^^d the " i«ufa") oardium. This ereseent-shaped porUon (call ^^^^ is not wholly without fl''"'^'■'■'"Itll 3tongth to resist the inr- along its free edge, to grve hy cords along ' pulse of the blood ■, just as sads ^e st^e ^^^^^ their edges, that they ™yjf ^^J"'^,^ three slight dilatations of the valves the =^''7)" f jjf These, we shall presently see, called the " s%nu8es of Vaisatva. axe more marked at the ^f^^^^'^lZ During the contraction The action of these valves o^^^'^e side of the artery, and of the ventricle the valves lie ^S™* '^''J':'during its dilatation, offer no impediment tbe current of U^^^^. the elasticity of the drstended artery wo ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ of blood, but that the tube. The greater the bag, and fall together so as to close t ^^^^ p Lure, the -ore accurate ^ thej - ^ artery are very elastic and folding,Jb j^j . eonse- LuLference to which ^'.-;^^,f,';;re imprdse of the blood, ouently, when the artery '■"^'f^^^^^^^l^ flee margiu of the ?ts wail is removed from ^^J^^^^^ngtt hy the retrograde valves, and these are the more re«my o ^^^^^^^ t^e m tio; of the blood. Tbe f^ce of th- ^^^^^^^ ^^^^ tendinouspartofthevalves and^so by ^ jj^^^^, ventricle, as shown by * .Savo'7 as ,alves are capable of ^^rtions (tl^e iu» . be- before they give way. The tn J that of the come placed so a.^ to^ ^ ^Hng the artery ..th adjacent valve. AU tUis m y water. . ^ , , ... igft side and posterior part ot This is situated at the le t s ^^^^^^ quadrilateral, Left auricle. ^^g^ of the heart, it is s=u117 DISSECTION OF THE HEART, and receives the pulmonaiy veins, two on either side, which return the purified blood from the lungs. From its upper and left side the auricular appendage projects towards the right, curling over the root of the pulmonary artery. The auricle should be opened by a horizontal incision proceeding from one pulmonary vein to another: from this a second should be made into the appendix. Its interior is smooth and flat, excepting in the appendix, which con- tains the " musculi pectinati." Notice the openings of the four pulmonary veins. Upon the septum between the auricles is a depression indicating the remains of the foramen ovale. At the lower and front part of the auricle is the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is oval, with its long axis nearly transverse, and in the adult admits the passage of two fingers. This occupies the left border, and forms the apex Sder^'" heart. One-third of it only is seen on the upper surface. To examine the interior, raise a triangular flap from its front wall, with the apex of the flap below. Then ob- serve that it is about three times as thick as that of the right ventricle, and that this thickness gradually diminishes towards the apex. The interior of the left ventricle is so much like that of the right that one need not describe it in detail. Observe that the auriculo-ventricular valve consists of only two principal flaps : hence^ its name "mitral" or "bicuspid." The lai-ger of these flaps is placed between the aortic and auricular orifices. There are only two " musculi papillares; " one attached to the anterior, the other to the posterior surface of the ventricle. They are thicker, and their " cordcB tendinece" stronger than those of the right ventricle, but their plan is precisely similar. From the upper and back part of the ventricle a smooth passage leads to the orifice of the aorta. This orifice is placed rather in front and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening; but the two orifices are close together, and only separated by the larger flaiD of the mitral valve. The aortic orifice is guarded by three semi- lunar valves, of which the arrangement, structure, and mode of action are precisely like those of the pulmonary artery. Their iramework is proportionately stronger, consistently with the I .3,,o DISSECTION OP THE HEART. . -.1. nnd tbe gi-eater impulse com—nt o t.-^^^^^^^^^ find fibrous rings. These rmg ^^^^^ attachment of the muscular fibres ot ^^.^^^^ t Ihe fibrous rmgs at tne ^ ^.^gg^ea upwards. Ho^ tte . ^^ree festoons, with concavi i ^^^^ greatartenes ^ attachment to tnc mm Se attached These festoons give ^^.^i^,. fibres of the heart to theven- ^ ^,tery above, to tne fibres of the below, and, ^^^-^^^^t o the heart by the serous r%trp:—^^^^^^^ iTrPocU...) of t^-— b blood by the two coronary The heart is suppliea m antenor. arteries, a right or ^e semilunar valves, S'Ui Both arise from the -"^^^^^^ the passage of blood: at sueh a distance as ahvays to ad^ ^ ^ ^ l.^r..^'^^-^X^::^ZZf^:.. — vem. ^.d h^ the are accompanied by cardiac nerves. , ^ises from the left side or The anterior or left coronary arte ^ ^^^^^^^ d the aorta. It appears on the ° '„^the anterior surface tn :unsdowntheinter-v»M»l« , of the heart to the ap^^^. " jt, ^cipal branch is that tZ^ axtery. ^X^^S tow between the left ven- """^'Ta^it ^dtt^commimicates at the back of ,d!^f tCr: Xt Jr. to - j;.- -T:^ trt, where H the right ventricle and aunde ^o ^^^^ ^^^„„„y. Be Sosculates with the b°n7';^ ^^^-^tr-venlrieular furrow at he . Sdesthis,itsendsahi-h^^^^ ,,h the lef back of the heart to the apex.11 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. I 4 Thus the coronary arteries form two circles about the heart: the one, horizontal, runs round the base of the heart, in the furrow between the aui-icles and ventricles. The other, perpendicular, runs in the furrow between the ventricles. The veins corresponding to the coronary arteries terminate in a single trunk, which opens into the right aiu-icle between the remains of the Eustachian valve and the aiu-iculo-ventricular open- ing. The orifice of the vein is guarded by a valve, to prevent regurgitation of blood. Most of the fibres are attached by both extremities Arrange- j. i r-n ment of the the fibrous rings of the heart. The fibres of the • SireS/tte ^^^^^^^^ distinct from those of the ventricles. They heart. consist of a superficial layer common to both cavities, and a deeper layer proper to each. The superficial fibres run transversely across the auricles; some pass into the septum. The deeper fibres run in circles chiefly round the auricular ap- pendages and the entrance of the great veins, upon which a few may be traced for a short distance. Of the ventricular fibres, some are common to both ventricles, others proper to each. The septum is formed principally by the fibres of the left. All the fibres take a more or less spiral course fi-om the base towards the apex of the heart, where they coil round, pass into the interior of the ventricle, and form either ''carneae cokimnse" or "musculi papillares."* Eeduced to their simplest expression, the ventricles consist of two muscular sacs, enclosed in a third equally muscular. The same may be said of the auricles. Weight. average weight of the heart is from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female • but much depends upon the size and condition of the body gene- rally. We have seen the heart so reduced in size by dic4etic disease, that it weighed only 51 ozs. As a general rule, it may be stated that the heart gradually increases in length, breadth, and thickness, from childhood to age.f * For further information upon this subject, see the article in Todd', Ovnln. /i- t Consdt Bizot, Mem. de b Soc. Med. d'Obser. de Paris, torn, i 1836irCETAL CIRCULATION. The average thickness of the right 'f ™e.»e,.o< hue; that of the left one J >'J^^ the»vii«. ^^^.^^ y^j. j„^^s„e must not he taken ou g " rigor mortis. Fig. 23. s\iP^ V. c DUCTUS RTERIOSUS LEFT PULNf KBAMEN OVALE pi-AC ENTA f fhe ricrht ventricle at its thickest part The average thickBCSS of the ^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^ness of e the hase-is ahout two bnes.121 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. the left ventricle at its thickest part—i. e. the middle—is about half an inch. In the female the average is less. PeciTHarities ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^om that of the adult of foetal in the following points: — !. The Eustachian valve is well developed in order to guide the current of blood from the vena cava inferior into the foramen ovale. 2. The foramen ovale is widely open. 3. The right and left pulmonary arteries are very much contracted, so as to admit very little blood to the lungs. 4. The ductus arteriosus (from the pulmonary artery to the aorta,) is widely open. 5. The right and left ventricles are of equal thickness because they have equal work to do. Circulation ^he umbilical vein, fig. 23 bringing pure blood from the ^ the fSt'us'^ placenta, enters at the umbilicus, and goes to the imder surface of the liver, where it divides into many branches, which join the hepatic circulation. One of these branches, termed the "dtictus venosus," goes straight into the inferior vena cava. From the inferior vena cava the blood enters the right auricle, and this stream (directed by the Eustachian valve) flows through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. From the left auricle it runs into the left ventricle, and thence through the aorta, into the great vessels of the head and the upper limbs, which are in this way supplied by almost piu-e blood. From the head and the upper limbs, the blood returns (impm-e) through the superior vena cava into the right auricle, and flows into the right ventricle. From the right ventricle it passes throuah the pulmonary artery, and the "ductus arteriosus;' into the third part of the arch of the aorta; only a very small quantity of it o-oes to the lungs. From the aorta the blood is conveyed through the umbilical arteries to the placenta, where it is purified. STRUCTUEE OF THE LUNGS. _ The lungs^ are very vascular, spongy organs, in which the blood IS purified by exposure to atmospheric air. Their situation andSTKUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. ^The lung. a..e composed oj;-"^'^ ""^^'^ of which the =-=-="'-/f/"'"i"!^„nL ramific.tious^^^ packed minute cells, called the '^l^^^^l^^Lu.s^looonc.meA Lpulmona,7='rteryandvems -, ^""f component in their nutrition; of lymphatics and t/p,e,i^ pa* axe united hy areolax tissue, and covered e.^r-Uy P ^ The point at which they respectively pass m antt «' root" of the lung. , , j j^^ in water. Thelungsarethelightestor^sint«^^^^ men entirely deprrved o£ f'^^^^—^.i^^,,, conditions; for "^'^ JntnT^T s^rpre:::d\y efflsion into the chest. instance, when one Lm^o ^ or rendered solid by i-A-^^^f ehest,the lung, which If an recedes from Contractility ^^s ia contact with the riDs, ^ gradually oftlielung. , provided there be no adhesions, gici _ j A n if the Cgs be artificially inflated, either m or contracts. Again, if the lung themselves, they spon- out of the chest, we o^^^^^ f^^^' constant disposition to taneously expel a part, of the arr ^^^^^ contract, in the livmg and the dead iu g ^^^^ ^^^^^.^^^^ tissue in the ^--^^^V'^ on the surface of the lung, which to .layer of ^e^e^t^^^^^^^^^^ a distinct coat, under the has been described by some name of the second or ^^^f J, violet colour; they The lungs are of ^ a marble- Colo.. .,ten present a — ^^^^^^ the organ, sin.e like appearance. J^^^/^ ^. it depends upon the stagnation it is produced m the -^^.^^ ^^^f^^^^ ^ Jricle still impels into the of the venous blood, f The tint varies in paxticulai- Inngs, though respiration is [^^^^^-^^ ^^^^^^^^ ,f the blood, and is situations in proportion to J^^^^ B,t the colour of the mSTRUCTURE OP THE LUNGS. 123 lungs of infants who have never breathed, or after death from profuse haemorrhage: it was particularly observed by the French sm-geons in the lungs of individuals who were executed by the guillotine.* Upon or near the surface of the lung we observe black spots, which do not depend upon the blood, since they are seen in the palest lungs. They vary in number and size, and increase with age. The source of these discolorations is not exactly known. Some consider them as deposits of minute particles of carbon which have been inhaled with the air; others, as masses of black pigment cells. Trachea "^^^^ ^ partly membranous partly cartilaginous tube, which proceeds from the larynx opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and divides about the third dorsal vertebra into two tubes, called the right and left bronchi, one for each lung. Its length is from four to four and a half inches. Its diameter is about eight or ten lines in the adult, but it vaiies according to the age of the individual and the natural volume of the lungs. It is kept constantly open by a series of cartilaginous rings, from sixteen to twenty in number, which extend round two-thirds of its circumference. At the posterior part ol the tube the rings are deficient. This deficiency is for the puipose of allowing the trachea to expand or contract; and the membranous part of the tube is provided with transverse muscular fibres which can ap- proximate the ends of the rings. Bronchi. bronchi differ in length, direction and dia- meter. The right is shorter than the left, and passes more horizontally to the root of its lung. It is larger in all its diameters than the left; hence, foreign bodies which have acci- dentally dropped into the trachea are more likely to be carried into the right bronchus by the stream of the air. The left bronchus is about two inches in length, and descends more ob- liquely to its lung than the right. At the root of the lung each bronchus divides into two branches, * Bichat, Anat. descript. torn, iy, p. 12.STRUCTCRE 01? THE LUNGS. an upper and a lower, corresponding to the lobes of the tog; on the ri^ht side the lower branch sends a small division to the third the The tubes diverge through the lung, and dmde into brii^ches, successively smaller and smaller, until they lead to the . arcells These ramifications do not communicate with each other, ttey are like the branches of a tree; hence when a bronchial tube Is obstructed, all supply of air is cut off from the cells to which it The several tissues, cartilaginous, fibrous, muscular, mucou., and glandular which collectively compose the air-passages, are iiot Ssett in equal proportions throughout all their ramifications, bu S t pla<=ed in greater or less amount where it is required The lZZ!Zl rind, so necessary to keep the larger bronchi per- !frLn become in the smaller tubes fewer and less regular r?o™' tfte subdivisions of the tabes multiply, the cartUages TV ™„11 nieces placed here and there, - they become less Tdts fir anrfinaSy disappear altogether. The air-passages, tlen no Cger traceabl by the naked eye, are entirely mem- "»rtaa,.s of the tiuchea vary in number twenty; those of the right bronchus .c^ s. t^ eight .JW of *^fan"le V:t-sho?^^orm. The cartilage at the inner surfaces by a attached to the circum- ydlow elastic tissue. This memo , through the whole Lence of the cricoid cartilage and '^^ '--^-f po teriorly, where e^tentofthetr^heaandteb.^^^^^^ ar:rrsit::tiot:tco;sistsof^^^^^^^^^ longitudinal fibres wh^b are ,,,,,„ity of r:t:uXrZkr„f relougatlou a„d contraction of the trachea.STKUCTUKE OF TIIJD LUNGS. 125 On the outer surface of the membranous part of the glauds^*^ trachea and bronchi are small glands, of which the minute excretory ducts open into the tube. In health, their secretion is clear, not tenacious, and just sufl&cient to lubricate the air-passages. In bronchitis, they are the sources of the abun- dant viscid expectoration. After removing the glands and the fibrous membrane fibre! ^ hack of the trachea, we expose a thin stratum of non-striped muscular fibres, which extend transversely between the cartilages. By their contraction, they approximate the ends of the c^^rtilages, and diminish the calibre of the tube. The mucous membrane lining the air-passages is a continuation from that of the larynx. Its colom- in the natm-al state is nearly white, but in catarrhal affections it becomes bright red, in conse- quence of accumulation of blood in the capillary vessels. Its surface is lined by a layer of epithelium of the ciliated kind, of which the vibratile movement is directed in such a way as to favom- the expectoration of the mucus. The mucous membrane ceases at the commencement of the air-cells: in them there is no ciliated epithelium. The surface of the healthy lung is mapped out by Lobviles of r • J. T 1 . , . , the lung. ^^^^^ White Imes, which circumscribe spaces of various form and size. These spaces indicate the lobules of the lung. Each lobule is a lung in miniature. \\Tioever understands the structure of a single lobule, understands the structure of the entire lung. The lobules are connected by fine areolar tissue, caUed "interlobular," which is everywhere soft and elastic to allow the free expansion of the organ. The ceUs of this tissue have no communication with the air-vesicles unless the latter be ruptm-ed by excessive straining, and then this intermediate tissue becomes inflated with air, and gives rise to "interlobular emphysema." When infiltrated with serum it constitutes "anasarca" of the lungs. _ Each lobule receives a small bronchial tube, which subdivides into smaller branches. Thus reduced in size, the walls of the tubes no longer present traces of cartilaginous tissue, but are composedSTRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 126 Of a delicate elastic membrane upon which the capillaries ramify in a very minnte network * Each tnbe finally leads mto an rrregular ^sLge .intercellular passage), from which proceed on dl s.de numerous dilatations: these are the air-cells (fig. 24). The air- cells themselves present a number of shallow depressions, separated Fig. 24. Fig. 25. ol .HK ™ (.BOH .o™)- -a^B .^K..-^ by somewhat prominent V^^-^-:^^^^^^ honeycomb appearance as ^^^^uX^^^^^^ to increase the extent of suriace upon wn ^ ramify. The structure of the minute air-cell of the ^^^^ Puln^ona^ l^ronchial tubes. Their ultimate ^--f^^f^^l snread out in such profusion over the air-cells, that a .ecessMi;^:^:^ 1.. ^^^^ i:?^tt:r rioter r rveL;:,:.: are on an average about . X. pMHsis e.pec..ation contains ^J^^f ^^istt wk of the air vesicles ; th.y can be seen under the microscope, test of the character of the sputa.127 STKUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. yoVo-t^ of an inch in diameter. The blood and air are not in actual contact. Nothing, however, intervenes but the wall of the cell and the capillary vessel, which are such delicate structures that they oppose no obstacle to the free interchange of gases by which the blood is purified. This purification is effected by the taking in of oxygen, and the elimination of carbonic acid. The most complete purification takes place in the single layer of capillaries between the folds of membrane projecting into the cell; for in this situation both sides of these vessels are exposed to the action of the air. The blood, circulating in steady streams through this capillary plexus, returns through the pulmonary veins. These, at first extremely minute, gradually coalesce into larger and larger branches, which accompany those of the artery, and finally emerge from the root of the lung by two large trunks which carry the pure florid blood to the left auricle of the heart. From this outline of the anatomy of the limg, we see that the organ is so constructed as, in a given space, to allow the largest possible quantity of impure blood to be brought in communication with the largest possible quantity of atmospheric air. It is diffi- cult to conceive how any apparatus could be better adapted to the object in view. A stratum of blood of great superficial extent is exposed to an equal stratum of air, and these strata of contiguous fluids are contained in the interior of an organ so smaU as to He within the compass of the chest. Bronchial "^^^^^ ^^^^^ arteries, two or more in number for TesTels."" ^^^^ ^^S' They arise from the concavity of the arch of the aorta, and enter the lung in company with the divisions of the bronchi. They are the proper nutritive vessels • of the organ. The old anatomists called them the " vasa privata pulmonum;' to distinguish them from the "vasa publica pul~ monum " - namely, the pulmonary arteries. The former provide "pro existentia privata pulmonum;" the latter "pro bono pub hco totms organismi." The bronchial vessels are distributed in various ways; some of their branches supply the coats of the air- passages and the large blood-vessels, others the interlobular tissue and a few reach the surface of the lung, and ramify beneath theDISSECTION OF THE TUAEYNX. pleura. The right bronchial vems terminate in the vena azygos; left in the superior intercostal vein. The nerves of the luag are derived from the pneumogastac and the sympiretio. They enter with the hronchial tube., forming * ;iers ifront a^d behind them (anterior and postermr pulnao- the trachea. f DISSECTION OE THE PHARYNX. To obtain a view of the pharyn. ^^^^'^^^^ phagus, and the great vessels of the ^«*> l„„^ly U the bodies of - cerv.^ —fifst v^e^-a. eonneeted. The heaa ^^^^^^^^^ ^ base :rtL ^rXsrir'S introduced through the mouth aud the esophagus to distend a^rrat part of the alimentary The term "pharynx .s apphed P« , „d canal, which receives the food '^^ ^ funnel-formed, p„pels It aowawards in. th;<BSophagu^ It .s ^ ^^^^^ muscular bag. Its uppei pd .„.„^as perpendicularly as of the occipital bone ; rem then^ t o^^^^^J^,,, 10-- a-::;';^^;;t: , connected behind to the bodies name of " -sophagu^ The ba ^^^^ ^^.^^ of the cervical '^^biffi oy ^^.^^^ pharynx, tains fat. Remember tha ^^^^^^^^allel .oUh and dose to its the matter is seated m this tissue, ia ^,io,js are not sicUs mn tU inter«d »"'»f^<'*™;- '™ is just equal to equal throughout. Its breadth -J "W^"^. ^^'Je it is only that of the posterior openings of the ^-^^^^ nose; but it required to l^^-f^^f^^^^^^tr....^^ '"^ becomes much wider m the situation wubDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 129 — that is, at the back of the mouth : thence it gradually contracts to the oesophagus. The pharynx, therefore, may be compared to a funnel communicating in front by wide apertures with the nose, the mouth, and the larynx; while the oesophagus represents the tube leading from its lower end. The upper part of the funnel forms a cul-de-sac at the basilar process of the occipital bone. At this part there is, on each side, the opening of a narrow canal, called the "Eustachian tube," through which air passes to the tympanum of the ear.* Before we can examine the muscles of the pharynx, we must remove a layer of condensed cellular membrane, called by some anatomists the "pharyngeal fascia.''' It is only a layer of cervical fascia behind the pharynx, and must not be confounded with the proper phaiyngeal "aponeurosis," which intervenes between its muscular and mucous walls. At the back of the pharynx, near the base of the skull, we find some absorbent glands. They sometimes enlarge, and form a per- ceptible tumor in the pharynx. In removing the fascia from the pharyngeal muscles, notice that a number of veins ramify and communicate in all directions. They constitute the "pharyngeal venous plexus,'' and termi- nate in the internal jugular. Constrictor "^^^^ ^^^^^ ^"^ number, and arranged so that they muscles of Overlap each other, — i. e. the inferior overlaps the the pharynx, n^jjjjjjg^ ^j^g middle the superior (fig, 26). They have the same attachments on both sides of the body; and the fibres from the right and left meet together, and are inserted in. * Observe that the pharynx conducts to the oesophagus by a gradual contraction of its channel. This transition, however, is in some cases sufficiently abrupt to detain a foreign body, such as a morsel of food more bulky than usual, at the top of the ojsophagiis. If such a substance become fii-mly impacted in this situation, one can readily understand that it will not only prevent the descent of food into the stomach, but that it may occasion, by its pressure on the trachea, alarming symptoms of suffocation. Supposing that the obstacle can neither be removed by the forceps, nor pushed into the stomach by the probang, it may then become necessary to extract it by making an incision into the cesophagus on the left side of the neck. KjgQ DISSECTION or THE PHAEfNX. the mesial line, the insertion being marked by a white longitudinal arises ftom the side of the cnooid ^d thyroid cartilages. Its fibres expand over the lower part of the Fi2. 26. Tensor palati. Levator palati. Orbicularis oris . Pterygo-maxillary ligament . ■ - ™ Mylo-hyoideus Os-hyoides . . • Thyro hyoid liga- ment . . . ■ Pomum Adami Cricoid cartilage Tracliea . . • Glosso-pharyngeal n. Stylo-pbaryngeus. Superior laryngeal n. and a. External laryngeal n. Crico-tliyroid. Inferior laryngeal n. CEsopliagus. MUSCLES OF TUB PHiEYNS. , „ The superior fibres ascend ; the middle nm transversely; Sio "1 are identified with the esophagus. Be-131 DissECTioisr or the pharynx. neath its lower border the recurrent laryngeal nerve enters the larynx. The middle constrictor arises from the upper edge of the gi-eater cornu of the os-hyoides, from its lesser cornu and part of the stylo-hyoid ligament. Its fibres take different directions, so that with those of the opposite muscle they form a lozenge. The lower angle of the lozenge is covered by the inferior constrictor; the upper angle ascends nearly to the basilar process of the occiput, and -terminates upon the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The external surface of the muscle is covered at its origin by the hyo-glossus. The swperior constrictor arises from the hamular process of the sphenoid bone; from the pterygo-maxillary ligament (which con- nects it with the buccinator); from the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and from the side of the tongue. The fibres pass inwards to the mesial line: some of them are inserted through the medium of the pharyngeal aponeurosis into the basilar process. ^ The upper border of the superior constrictor presents on either side a free semilunar edge with its concavity upwards, so that between it and the base of the skull a space is left in which the muscle is deficient (fig. 26). Here the pharynx is strengthened and walled in by its own aponeurosis. The space is called the " sinus of Morgagni;" and in it, with a little dissection, we get at the muscles which raise and tighten the soft palate: i. e. the levator palati, the tensor palati. The Eustachian tube opens into the pharynx just here. Observe that the fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus pass in between the superior and middle constrictors, and expand upon the side of the pharynx; some of them mingle with those of the constrictors, but most of them are inserted into the posterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. Pharyngeal ^he pharyngeal aponeurosis, intervenes between the "poneSoL" "'^"^^^ membrane of the pharynx. It IS attached to the basilar process of the occiput, and to the pomts of the petrous portions of the temporal bones It maintains the strength and integrity of the pharynx at its upper part, where the muscular fibres are deficient; but it gradiially dimmishes m thickness as it descends, and is finally lost on the132 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. oesophagus. Notice the number of m^icous glands upon this " on ur°osis, especially near the base of the skull and the Eusta- chirtlbe. These glands sometimes enlarge and occasion deafness from m-essm-e on the tube. . ^ Now lay open the pharynx by a longitudinal incision fnSr and observe the seven openings into (Sg- 27):-- pharynx. j The posterior openings of the nares. 2. Un eitner siu of them, near the lower turbinated bones, are the openings of the Eustachian tubes: below the nares is the soft Palate, with the .ivula 3 Below the soft palate is the communication with the Tuth caned the " isthmus faucium." On either side of this are Two folS of mucous membrane, constituting the anterior and p! te^ half-arches of the palate; between them are the tonsi s Below the isthmus faucium is the epiglottis, which is connected to fhe Le of the tongue by three folds of mucoiis inembrane. 4. Below the epiglottis is the aperture of the larynx. 5. Lastly, i» thp onenino- into the oesophagus. All tC part» are Imed by mucous memtae common to the en« e ra" of the respiratory passages aad the ahmentar, cana. Rnnhr membrane presents characteristic differences m the dif- WnfnartsTf these char^nels, according as they are intended as ferent parts ot thes , ^^^^^rane of the pharynx passages for air «jT^^°''°;.^Xteniei to transmit air only, is very '^Z'l^^X^^Vfo^^'^^ fa»-, the mncons membrane st^of.^^^^^^^ r=rt;:;totnr^ expansion o^f the phai^xdnrlng Z^;:.:Z^^:^^^-^-^ particmany in - "*n:t:r srr"ro.l opemngs, th. yon f mav know how large to make the plug, when requisite openmgB of may Know nu = the nose. hEemorrhage from the nose, -lucj' jDISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 133 inch in the long, half an inch in the short diameter. They are bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, externally by its pterygoid plate, below by the horizontal portion of the palate Fig. 27. Eustachian tube. Levator palati in. Tensor palati in. Hainular process. Posterior palatine arch. Tonsil. Anterior palatine arch. Epiglottis. Aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Opening into the larynx. Opening into the oesophagus. VIEW OF THE PILiitYNX LAIB OPEN FBOM HE HIND. 0. .e , z^^ ^ ::°;i s 1^.:^ K 3SOFT PALATE. 134 fibrous tissue. This is *e veasou «i.y P«lyP^ 8-'"^ re:epa*,aregeuevally o,a flbn,usn^ure.^^^^^^ ^^^^ This name is given to the ope 6 I.tto» mouth oommunioates mth the pnaij • ture throat of a living person, and ohse ve th at t p ^ ^^^^ ,,„nnded,a.ovehythe .ft pa^aeand iwu^^^^^^^ ^^^^ of the tongue, and on either side oy enclosing the tonsils between ^^^S^ of the mouth, ..P- is!re^-:e-^-^^^^^^^ Xt constitutes ,n i.perf^^ ^Z^^, con ?°::t=e -^(^^-i'^rL' rred adaptation to the ba.i of *e tongu^ an a white line, ta^^cf °« f ^e't. it hangs obliquely down- hihes. men the soft palate is at res 6 ^ wards and backwards; hut in °™f^_;;^ ,pp„.iti„n with .ontal position hy the l-^f^Pf * IX the tood\-om return- the back of the pharynx, and thus pre ing through the nose. throuffh tlie soft palate, you HyoumakeapeiTendicular se tiontoug ^^^^^^ ^^^^ will see that the .great hulk ° * -J^i-^ *e passage of the ■ which lie thick on its ™'fa-*° ,p„„,,™siB of the food. Above these glands ^ up ^^^^^^ palate, still higher, upon *<= a'^^" ^1,^ ,„ft palate is supplied upon the nasal mucous t,a„ch of the Interna Ih blood hy the descending paW™ ^^^^^ , t ntesr delvJaU the second division of the The uvula projects and gives the fJ J ^^^^^^ and a little niuscle, „eh. It contains a "t muco ,^ , , the " a^ygos uvute. If tim,,, accordiug to the state of in the same person '•^^^^^^ permanently elongated, and its muscle. It occasionally becomes pSOFT PALATE. 135 K 4 causes considerable irritation, a tickle in the throat, and harassing cough. When you have to remove a portion of it, you should cut off only the redundant mucovis membrane. Ai-cliesof "^'^^ ^^^^ continued into the tongue and the palate, pbarynx by two folds of mucous membrane on each side, enclosing muscular fibres. These are the anterior and posterior half-arches or pillars of the palate. The anterior arch describes a curve from the base of the uvula, to the side of the tongue. It is well seen when the tongue is put out. The pos- terior arch, commencing at the side of the uvula, curves along the free margm of the palate, and terminates on the side of the pharynx. The posterior arches, when the tongue is depressed, can be seen through the span of the anterior. The tonsils are situated on each side between ^he arches. Now what are the uses of these arches? They are chiefly concerned in the mechanism of deglu- tition. The anterior, (enclosing the "palato glossi" muscles,) contract so as to prevent the food from coming back into the mouth : the posterior (enclosing the "palato pharyngei " muscles ) contract hke side curtains, and co-operate in preventing the food from passing into the nose. True, in vomiting, food does some- times escape through the nostrils, but one cannot wonder at this considering the violence with which it is driven into the pharynx. Muscles of The muscles of the soft palate, lie immediately under palatf membrane. There are foui- pairs, namely, the "levatores palati," the " circumflexi or tensores palati " the " palato glossi," and "palato pharyngei: " the « azygos uvulas'" is single. Levator P^^^'O^s portion of the palati. temporal bone and from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted alon^ the npper surface of the soft palate (fig. 27). Its action is to raise the palate, so as to make it horizontal in deglutition. Circum- J'^;^^ « situated between-the internal pterygoid or and the interna pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone chian tube. Thence it descends perpendicularly, ends inTONSILS. a tendon which tuvns round the ha^nular pvoce., and -panto into a bvoad aponeurosis which . connec^d ^ * fe«o opposite side, and is also attached to the no ^ .^^ il palate hone. It gi.es ^f-S^h to t e soft paUt . J^^^^^^ nemhrane facilitates the play of '''^ palate. ,,„.ess. -;*:-;ronrre:rt^^ thm hnna,. of °' Js:rr«.e, .Mch .ise fro.Jhe ^^^^^ palate, and descend along the nvula nearly extremity. nnntained within the arches of the These muscles are containeo w I'.l.'o- sof< palate. The palato-glossns w thin he an ^ proceeds from the —^f^st L *^^ ,ide »tf»'»8";';^U:%t posterior arch, pro- muscle. The P-l-'»-P'>«y"S2 Jte p j^^^^^ the side of the eeeds from posterior bm-dai om pa ^^^^^^^^^^ pharynx and mixes with the hbien ^'''"-■"'-Thr-tonsils consist of ^^^^^^jl^^ZCZ To«u,. They axe situated at the »tr^ceo^^,^^^^^^^ between the arches of the V^^"' ^^g.^, of tteb ducts, fauces during the passage of appearance lite the ™ible on the surface, give the ton.i^ ^^JP^^^ shell of an almond H^^C" These openmgs lead into small they are called the " '^'^f^ff^-'ZoA by mucous membrane; cells in the substance *;,^^^tct pour'their secretion. The and into these, ^^rthe U*^? I fluid, viscid and ^'^-T'T'Z^,; affections of the tonsils, and wbite and opaque 'V^fXTsuperficial cells, giving rise to the occasionally accumulate^ m the e sup ^ . ^ deceptiveappearanceof asmal uker 0 ^^^^ cLeming the ''f^^^J," earotid artery. It is onlyEUSTACHIAN TUBE. 137 instrument should never be directed outwards, but inwards towards the mesial line.* The tonsils are supplied with blood by the ton- sillar branch of the external maxillary artery. This canal conveys air from the pharynx to the Eustecliiau tympanum of the ear. Its orifice is situated opposite the back part of the inferior spongy bone. The direc- tion of the tube from the pharynx is upwards, backwards and outwards; it is an inch and a half long. The narrowest part is about the middle, and here its walls are in contact. Near the tympanum its walls are osseous, but towards the pharynx they are composed of fibro-cartilage and fibrous membrane. The cartila- genous end projects between the origins of the levator and the tensor palati, and gives attachment to some of their fibres. It is situated at the base of the skull, in the furrow between the petrous portion of the temporal and the great wing of the sphenoid bone. It adheres closely to the bony furrow, as well as to the fibro- cartilage filling up the "foramen lacerum medium." The orifice is not trumpet-shaped, as usually described, but an elliptical slit about half an inch long and nearly perpendicular. The fibro- cartilage bounds it only on the inner and the upper part of the circumference; the integrity of the canal externally is maintained by tough fibrous membrane. The Eustachian tube is lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and covered by ciHated epithebum. Hence, inflammatory affections of the throat or tonsils are liable to be attended with deafness, from temporary obstruction of the tube. Mucous glands surround the orifice of the tube like a second tonsil. They are similar in nature and function to the glands beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, the palate, and the pharynx. The hard palate, formed .by the superior maxillary and palate bones, serves as a fulcrum for the tongue in the act of tastina in mastication, in deglutition, and in the articulation of sounds. The * Cases are related by Portal and B^clard, m which the cvr.tiA^38 MECHANISM OF DEGLUTITION. tissue covering the bones is thiclc and close in its texture, and Hly united to the asperities on the bones. But rt .s not every- the I ol- equal thickness. Along the raphe in the mesxal hne, .t is Inch thinner than at the sides, this is probably the reason why Te hard palate is in this situation more prone to be perforated by ''ttH^tyeTof glands {glandular patoc.) are arranged in rows on either side of the hard palate. These glands become mo^e numerous and larger as we approach the soft palate Thexr Xes are visible to the naked eye. The mucous membrane ha. a very thick epithelial coat, which gives the whrte colour to the hard palate. „ fresh in your mind With the anatomy of the paits nesn in y r™"^': tdV ae:Xlld into ^.e pha.,.x by the larynx, a, late, at the same time that pressure of the ^^e^^J^^ exDanded to receive if Having the pharynx « "f^^,*j;'^::,ld fro,n ascending into the "^T "TcTtl ele"ot the soft palate .hich thus forras a arches, and the elevat prevented from returnmg temporary roof to he pharynx, r P into the mouth by a pes- ^^^^^^ .. ^^^^^^ contraction ^'^a lottidis" is cloBed and protected by the igU:T:conse<iue^^^ being forcibly compressed . The Wn. ...0 ^Ar***"^" let«e» it .»<! tb» f" * t£c"r»t t .S>1 ™™o,J„ .6»ey. but by ^ Jotr crs z „u.ion. ^.139 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. by the constrictors of the pharynx, the food passes into the oeso- phagus. The food passes with different degrees of rapidity through the different parts of its course ; but most rapidly through the pharynx. The necessity of this is obvious, when we reflect that the air-tube must be closed while the food passes over it, and that the closure produces a temporary interruption to respiration. The progress of the food thi-ough the oesophagus is slow and gradual. DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. Before you commence the dissection of the larynx, make your- self familiar with the cartilages which compose it, and the ligaments which connect them. In other words, examine the frame-work of the larynx as seen in a dry preparation. Os-hyoides '^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^'^^ its resemblance to the Greek letter Upsilon, is situated between the larynx and the tongue, and serves for the attachment of the muscles of the tongue. It may be felt immediately below, and one inch and a half behind the symphysis of the jaw. Anatomists divide it into a body, two greater and two lesser cornua. The body is the thick central portion. Its anterior surface is convex, and marked by the attach- ment of muscles; its posterior concave surface corresponds to the epiglottis. The greatei^ cornua (right and left) project back- wards for about an inch and a. half, with a slight inclination upwards, and terminate in blunt ends tipped with cartilage. In young subjects they are connected to the body of the bone by fibro- cartilage; this in process of years becomes ossified. The lesser' cornua are connected, one on each side, to the point of junction between the body and the greater cornua, by means of a little joint lined by synovial membrane, which admits of free motion. They are not larger than a barley-corn, and the stylo-hyoid ligaments are attached to them.140 DISSECTION OF THE LAUYNX. The os-hyoides is connected to the thyroid cartilage by several ligaments, which contain a quantity of elastic tissue There is: 1 The anterior thyro-hyoid, which proceeds from the notch ot the thyroid cartilage to the upper and-posterior part of the body o the os-hyoides. In front of this ligament there is, m the per ect larynx, a bursa of considerable size, of which the nse is to facilitate the play of the thyroid cartilage behind the os-hyoides 2. Ihe rio-ht and left lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments extend between the extremities of the greater cornua of the o|-hyoides and the ascend- ing cornua of the thyroid cartilage. They often contain a little nodule of cartilage. The space between the hyold bone and the Thyroid cartilage ?s closed in the recent state by the %ro-/^-cZ Jer>^brane. Through this membrane the superior laryngeal neive and artery enter the larynx. The framework of the larynx is composed of hve Cartilages of cartilages connected by joints and elastic ligaments, so the larynx. ^^^^ ^ ^^^^^ ^^p^^ ^^^^ ^ther by appropriate muscles; the object of this motion being to act upon two el^tic ligaments called the "vocal cords," upon which the voice essen tiallydepends^^^^ so called because it shields the beautiful Thyroid mechanism behind.it. It consists of two lateral halves (al^) united at an acute angle which forms the pro- Tuinence termed "Pomum Adami." This prominence presente " I its upper part, as if a P-tion had been sliced off to allow it to play behind the os-hyoides m deglutition. Theie is vT front of it I have seen this bursa as large as a pigeon s ' ' T^e ut s^^^^^^^ of each ala is marked by an oblique line ^« sterno-thyroid and thpo-hyoid Iscles The inferior border is slightly arched m the middle and Te tier side presents a convex prominence, which gives attach- r^to the clco-thyroid muscle. The ^-ior border js n^^^^ horizontal. The posterior border is nearly --^-^l' terminates above and below in round projections f J^,^ and the lower cornua. The upper is the longer; the lowei aiUcu lates with the side of the cricoid cartilage.141 DISSECTION or THE LAKYNX. Cricoid . "''^"^ cartilage, named from its resemblance to a cSge. ring*, is situated below the thyroid. It is not of equal depth all round. It is narrow in front where it may be felt about one quarter of an inch below the thyroid cartilage: from this part, the upper border gradually rises, so that, pos- teriorly, the ring is a full inch in vertical depth, and occupies pai't of the interval left between the al^ of the thyroid cartilage. In the middle of this broad posterior surface is a vertical ridge, on either side of which observe a superficial excavation for the origin of the crico-arytenoidei postici. On its upper part are two oval slightly convex surfaces for the articulation of the ai-ytenoid car- tilages. In front, its upper border presents a broad excavation to which the crico-thyi-oid ligament is attached. The lower border IS connected by elastic membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The thyi'oid is connected to the cricoid cartilage in front by the crico-thyroid membrane, and laterally by its two inferior horns Between these two cartilages there is a perfect joint on either side provided with a synovial membrane, and secured by ligaments! The object of this joint is to permit the approximation of the cartilages You will understand presently how the movement between them regulates the tension of the vocal cords. Arytenoid ^^''f cartilages are situated, one on either side, at cartilages. the back of the Cricoid. In the fresh state, before the membranes and muscles have been removed, the space between them resembles the lip of a ewer f; from this resemblance their name is derived Each is triangular with the apex upwards. Its posterior surface is concave, and gi.es attachment to the ary- tenoid muscle. Its base presents an o.al surface, which articulates ^vlth the cncoid cartilage. This joint has a very loose capsular and synovial membrane, and permits motion in all directions Tike he first jointo the thumb. In front^of the base is atubel (antenor tubercle), which gives attachment to the vocal cord Ind contributes to form part of the boundary of the rima gbttTdis' At the outer and back part of the base is another tubercle (point * KpiVor, a ring. ,, , 7 ApvTaiva, a ewer.142 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. . 1 .1.^ into Which certain muscles moving the cartilage are ttihercle), mto wmou -A^^.n -nosticus, and cnco-ary- inserted; namely, '^^/'""^y^^f ^'^'e i. surmounted by tenoideuB lateraliB The apex ''^''^^ "^Z^i^^l'^ i^jngu.'' one or two cartilaginous '^''"^^ "'^ending horizontally These are two elastic cords exteno g CrcU. the angle of the thyroid cartdage totae ot ':ch of the l-ytenoid. They diverge ^y l«ss^^^^^^ wards; the sp=.e ^''-^attlV ^--1-^^''"^ "P- "^Tct tiCes t -ori^ can he approximated or re- the arytenoid caitiiages, lae^ alottidis can be Ttnrat/'wCt«r«.^--d? and hrought closed or dilated. vvu the cords are made to hTthTXal e'^^SW.nd thus i» produced " - :r:ri:t: ^i^^ tteyme^re f ..^^er; hencetheirpecuharvo.ee. «o«i.. Le a vaive Its ordinary P--^ Understand that this lalhug »P^™'^„,,,,,ous elevation of by special mu.cu ar -^ [^^'' f^L tongue. Its apex or lower the larynx and ;^^^^ZepvmiA>an ligament to the an^e part is atta<:hed ty te t%' 0 P V ,,g,,,ent of the thyroid cartilage , it is aisu The cartilages "f '-J- ^4 „^tic. but they have a ture. In the young they _ ^ , thyroid and tendency to o=.ify «• J^J^y ossified, and their interior cricoid cartilages are <'f'<=" ^^tter, analogous to theDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 143 account of its peculiar organization which resembles that of the ear and the nose. Let us now examine the larynx in its perfect condition. Mucous The mucous membrane of the larynx presents a Sar^nx"^ Wrinkled appearance, except where it lines the vocal cords, and is connected to the subjacent structures by an abundance of fine cellular tissue, which admits of its bei'ncr pmched up into large folds. This tissue deserves notice from the rapidity with which it becomes the seat of serous effusion in.acute inflammation of the larynx, and thus produces sudden and alarm- ing symptoms of suffocation. From the root of the tongue to the epiglottis the membrane forms three folds (glosso-epiglottidean) contaming elastic tissue. From the epiglottis it is continued backwards on either side to the apices of the arytenoid cartilao-es forming the " aryteno-epiglottidean" folds, which bound the entrance into the larynx. In the natural state it is of a pale rose colour, and covered by ciliated epithelium. The mucous membrane of the larynx is remarkable for its acute sensibility. This is requisite to guard the glottis during the passage of the food over it. The glottis is closed during the act of ori:rtL'i i'^''''''''^^^-pt 'o ;eak or laugh the glottis opens, and allows the food to go, as t is termed, the wrong way. As soon as the foreign body touches the mu„mbrane of the larynx, a spasmoL fitCfTougJu^ The sub-mucous tissue of the larynx is studded with a profusion of mucous glands. An oblong mass of them lies in the aiyteno- ventr cles The surface of the epiglottis towards the tono-ue is abundant provided with them. Their ducts pass thi^S the » and may be recognized as minute openings on its larfn- by the thyro-arytenoid folds; the ^exVS^r^he^ec::;;::Inferior opeuiiig of the lai-ynx, or rima ■ glottidis. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. tonel-shape appearance froni which the arytenoid cartilages de- rive their name.^^ .^^^ ^^^^^^ , tal slit in the middle line; this is the " nma glottid.s, u. ' .lottis." The anterior two-thirds of thrs sht is hound d hv the tiue vocal cords; the posterior third by the aU-id cartilages. On each side of the glo«r^ is a S^ndrv^th^lea^in^^^^^^^^^^^^ for a short distance hy the side "^J^l^^l ^e vibration probable nse of these <.vit.es^. t^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^„ of the vocal CO ds, tiere, the sensitive that li a toieij,n oo , observe what are patient has no rest until it -fj"^^;^^';^^^;^^^ called the " superior vocal cords. ^ These we ^^ ^^^^ ^ they are which form the upper ^f'^^^"''°'^'^^ltae or nothing called the "false vocal cords — f ^y ie composed of tissue, which the true ones do not. ^ ^ ^,on com- The glottis admits of being ,,„n^e Fig. 28. muscles. When at rest, its shape is triangular as shown m fig 28. where the ai-ytenoid car- tilages are cut through on a level wtli the vocal cords. During every inspiration, the o-lottis is dilated by the cnco- arytenoidei postici ; it then be- comes spear-shaped (fig- 30). Dui-ing exph-ation, it resumes its triangular shape: and this ,,..n to a state o. rest is e^ct^ ^ ^I^^S^J:^ Thyroid cartilage. Truevocul cord. Arylonoiil c;irtilage. Elastic ligament. SHAPE or THB GLOTTIS ■WHEN AT BEST.DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 145 dilated by muscular tissue; like the chest, also, it is contracted by elastic tissue. In speaking or singing, the glottis assumes what is called the vocalizing position—that is, the opening be- comes narrower and its edges nearly parallel. Intrinsic There are nine muscles which act upon the «rima tTetry^^ glottidis:" four On each side and one in the middle. The four pairs are—the crico-thyroidei, the crico-aryte- noidei postici, the crico-arytenoidei laterales, and the thyro-aryte- noidei. The single one is the arytenoideus. M crico- "^^""^^ situated on the front of the larynx, thyroideus. ^^^^^s from the side of the cricoid cartilage, ascends obliquely outwards, and is inserted into the inferior border of the thyroid. Its action is to tighten the vocal cords; Fig. 29. Arytenoid cartilage . Crico-arytenoid joint Crico-thyroid joint . Thyroid cartilage. / — Thyroid cartilage depressed. True vocal cord. True vocal cord stretched. Crico-thyroid muscle. Cricoid cartilage. DIAGRAM SHOWING THE ACTION OF THE CRICO-THTOOID MUSCLE. tnnof h!'^^ depressing the thyroid cartilage: for this cartilage Ty the dottedT 7"*'"^' lengthening these cords, as shown posticus. ^"/-^^d cartilage, and is xnserted into the posterior tubercle of the arytenoid. Its action is to dSateXDISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. glottis. It does this by — If— Ld cartilage towards '^-^'''f^2^eiTfromii.e^eA.Ume tubercle (to ^vhicb t''^ ™'f^^"^itwere (fig.30). the fulcrum or upon a pivot, and acts as a lever of '^^^ weight, ideal pivot being intermediate between the P°«r ana J This muscle dilates the glottis every time we rnspue. eomes from ''"^^^^-^^^'^tccupies the interval between the n.^- J ot thLytenoid cartilages "es pass^^^^^^^^ from one cartilage to the othe. Most of them are =:;re::r:;:.o^vt;^^^^^^^^^^ Fig. 30. Vocal cord . • Thyroid cartilage Cricoid cartilage Arytenoid cartilage . Elastic ligament (crico arytenoid) . . • • Thyro-arytenoideus. Crico-avytenoideus la- teralis. Ideal pivot. Crico-arytenoideus pos- ticus. . -A ^.rtilaffes ttey assist in contracting the clasping the arytenoid cartilages, y glottis. . , . „„y the ala of the ^ . To expose tbis ""nsde, cut away t M. crico- Lrtilao-e It a"scs from tne mae o a^mide™ thyroid cartilage. -.^^j-j into the anterior „i,oid cartilage, and is «mt^ ^ tubercle of the base of the «y^™;t,e,*;posite sides contract ^^^^^^ -DISSECTION OP THE LARYNX. 147 M. thyro arytenoi- deus. This muscle arises from the angle of the thyroid cartilage, runs horizontally backwards and is inserted into the front surface of the base of the arytenoid. Its fibres run parallel with the vocal cord, and some of them are directly inserted into it. Part of the muscle spreads out so as to form a floor for the ventricle of the larynx, and is inserted into the outer border of the arytenoid cartilage. Nerve from the inferior laryngeal. This muscle relaxes the vocal cord. More than this, it puts the lip of the glottis in the « vocalizing" position; in this position, the hps of the glottis are parallel, and the chink is reduced to the breadth of a shilHng.* Kg. 31. Vocal cord Arytenoid cartilage Elastic ligament . Thyro-arytenoideus. Crico- arytenoideus la- teralis. Crico-arytenoideus pos. ticus. GLOTTIS CLOSED. MUSCLES CLOSING IT BEPBBSENTED WAVY. The foUowing table shows the action of the several muscles which act upon the glottis : — Crico-thyroidei Thyro-arytenoidei Crico-arytenoidei postici Crico-arytenoidei laterales Arytenoideus Stretch the Vocal Cords. Eelax the Vocal Cords, and place them in the vocalizing position. Dilate the glottis. Draw together the arytenoid cartilages Ditto Ditto Ditto close the glottis. » M. myteno-epifflotiideus.—This consists nf n fe^ i the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Sorae TtZ'^^l^^^r:""--^ ''"^ '""''^''^ - near the free margin of the fold L 2 '^^g DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The Uood-vessels of the larynx are derived /^^/^^^^^^^^^ nnd inferior thyroid arteries. The laryngeal branch of the superior "pa^^^^^^^ W the thyro-hyoid niernbrane ^^^^^^^ :pLing^er.e,anddi.idesinto^.^^^^^ passes through the crico-thyroid membrane. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and inferior (recwn ) laryngeal branches of the pneumogastnc. thvro-hvoid The BuverioT laryngeal, having passed through the thyro-hyoia niale and laryBX. i^e m J ^^^^g ^^^g the female ^^^je, becomes nearly douDiea lu larger, but to a less extent. ^ ^ These being distributed over the rontride of the others are found lo^ver ^0-- Jh^^^; ^ % ,,li,e,,te the cavity. Hence he • larynx, can H^o^^-^^^^"to this part of the nn.scle by m. Hdton ^ * Medical Gazette, Dec. 1843.DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 149 The larynx of the adult male is in all proportions about one third larger than that of the adult female. The alee of the thyroid cartilage form a more acute angle in the male; hence the greater projection of the " pomum Adami," and the greater length of the vocal cords, in the male. The average length of the vocal cords is in tie I ^'^^^ • • ' Klines. /Female . , 6 „ The average length of the glottis is in the . 5^^^^ ... 12 lines. < Female . . 10 „ The size of the larynx does not necessarily follow the proportions of the general stature ; it may be as large in a little person as in a tall one: this corresponds with what we know of the voice. Crico-thy- This perfect little joint is provided with a capsule and latio^^'"'" membrane. There are, besides, two strong ligaments. Both proceed from the cornu of the thyroid cartilage; the one upwards and backwards, the other downwards and forwards to the cricoid. Eemember that the only kind of motion permitted is vertical: and that this motion regulates the tension of the vocal cords. DISSECTION OP THE TONGUE. The tongue is a complex muscular organ, subservient to taste speech, suction, mastication, and deglutition. It is connected by Its muscles (genio-hyo-glossus, hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus) to the symphysis of the jaw, to the os-hyoides, and to the styloid process of the temporal bone. To the soft palate it is connected by the anterior palatine arch (p. 133): and to the epiglottis by iolds of mucous membrane; in the middle fold is enclosed a layer of elastic tissue, caUed the « glosso-epiglottidean'' ligament. This pulls up the epiglottis when the tongue is put out of the mouth • hence the rule of never attempting to pass a tube into the cSopha-DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 150 rig. 32. Bi.ect yc. — fi- to the structure oi^^J^^^^^^ of the tongue—its most sensitive apparatus, next, of its interior muscular apparatus. structures similar Theuppersurfaceoftl..tongueiscompo do^^^^^^^^^^ ^ to those of the skin generally; that ^f'^^^.^»^^piHc.," P.pm» of Ao their size aud fonn, into three kinds ™. .<papiite^K/o™«'-" <^„„«Hate vary in numher from seven to twelve. They ^e armnsed at the back ot the tongue m two : wt which converge like the branches of Ihe letter V, with the apex backwards, towards the so-caUed — c^cum - a hUnd pouch in the nuddle hne of the tongue. Each of these papilte - CTCular S a central depression, and surrounded Ty a fossa = the fossa itself is orcumscnhed bv an elevated ring. ^The papim fungifo,-me, sma ler and more numerous than the scattered over the npper surface and sides of the tongue. They vary in shape soine ting cylindrical, others having heads lie 2room=; whence their -me. the apex of the tongue they may be dis . ...» aurmg Ufe ^^^J^^^ZI^ pUte by their redder colour-, e^ec^lly it the^^^^„^^^^^ lir::! ?t1 'X^eXt'the saml e.eot always acconi- 1. PapiUse circumTallatee. 2. PapiUse fungiformse.DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 151 panies the sensation of taste. In scarlatina, and some exanthe- matous fevers, these papillse become elongated, and of a bright red colour; as the fever subsides, their points acquire a brownish tint, giving rise to what is called " the strawberry tongue." The papillce filiformce are the smallest and most numerous. They are so closely aggregrated that they give the tongue a velvet- like appearance. Their points are directed backwards, so that the tongue feels smooth, if the finger be passed over it from apex to base ; but rough, if in the opposite direction. ^ All the papillse are covered with a layer of tessellated epithelium. That which covers the filiform is thicker than the rest, and with a microscope is seen to project from theii- sides like haii-. The various kinds of " fur " on the tongue consist of thickened and soddened epithelium. Eespecting the use of the papillae, it is probable that they enable the tongue to detect impressions with greater delicacy; and that they are instrumental in detecting different kinds of sensation, whether of taste or touch. From the density and arrangement of their epithelial coat, the filiform papiUee give the surface of the tongue a roughness which is useful in its action upon the food. An apparatus of this kind, proportionately stronger and more developed, makes the tongue of ruminant animals an instrument by which they lay hold of their food. In the fehne tribe, the lion and tiger for instance, these papillse are so shai-p and strong that they act like rasps, and enable the animal to lick the periosteum from the bones by a single stroke of his tongue. In some mam- malia, they act like combs for cleaning the skin and the hair. • If the papillse be injected, and examined under the microscope, it is found that they ai-e not simple, Hke those of the skin, but that each is composed of secondary papilla : for instance, analyse a "papilla circumvallata " and you will see that it consists of an aggregation of smaller papillse arranged parallel to each other • agam, a filiform papilla consists of a central stem, from which mmute secondary papillae shoot off. This elaborate structure escapes observation because it is bmied beneath the epithelium.* * See Bowman and Todd's Physiological Anatomy.';DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Eac. seco.aa.y papUU xeoeives a Hood W.. wMc. pa«es neariy to Us apex, and returns - a '""P-l^^^^^^^^ t^ed tejoad the of the gustatory uerve have not, hitherto, tase of the papilla. , „ j i„ the submucous tissue at Numerous small glands are f°™f™„ture and secretion the root of the tongue. The, are "T''^'° *™tere is a complete t; the tonsillar and palatine g>-^'» ^^^'g^^^^ound orliices ring of glands round "mus " Jleir ducts. Other upon their quarter to half an inch long, ^ mucous glands, mth ducts j ^ngue. are situated in the mnscutar J „f the tongue is On the under surface ol J , ^s^^ed to be » placed, on f^^J^^fZ^^^ lXZ^^^- ape, of the salivai j. Considering eacn gro V jer from seven to '«»^»- that it is oblong, with f» <>°f_^^f ^'it Ues near the ten lines, parallel with the a^s "^ron the outer side of mesiai line, a Uttle below the --^^^ „f the fibres of the branches of the 8-'^*°:^ "^^^ ftom each group, and the stylo-glossus. Four o^^^ttelZer smfaee of the tongue terminate by separate onfl.« on * „ "e is composed of muscutor The interior of the tongu r extnnm Miucul" „. „ J „f a small quantity ot )at. ^ jb„,oftto fibre and 01 a b \ ^^^ej, described m the dis tong... muscles of the '"''V Ve have now to examine section of the ^^^maxillaxy repon (p. 2b> ^ ^^^^^3^, its«tri«icmuscles f' ton;:. It wiU then be obvious be removed from the top of the ton^ ^^^^ ed Sat the great bulk of the -S-JX^te " " ""f^- in a longitudinal ^ef on, cor^ti "tog ^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ These fibres are not aU of eq«J ' deeply seated Lplauted into the sldn — *:„rres; are readily exposed ,un aU the way from base tojex, a immediately on by dissecting on the under ^^^^^^^ By the action of the outer side ot T'^^tf^ o"8^,e can be moved so as this ma^s of longitudinal fibies the » „e to rea^h any part of the J^,^^^ ^be tongue of which it is muscular fibres intermingled variouslyDISSECTION OF THE SCALP. 153 hard to give a description; one cannot be surprised at this, con- sidering the various and rapid motions of the organ. If we trace the genio-hyo-glossi of opposite sides into the tongue, we find that some of their fibres ascend directly to the surface; others cross each other in the middle line, intersect the longitudinal fibres, and finally terminate upon the sides of the tongue. Lastly, the fibres of the stylo-glossus may be traced along the side of the tongue to the apex. In the mesial line near the base of the tongue is found a vertical plane of fibrous tissue, connected behind to the body of the hyoid bone, and lost in front between the muscles. This so-caHed "nudeiLsfihrosus linguce" is a feeble representative of the lingual bone m some of the lower animals. The nerves supplying the tongue should be followed into its substance. The hypoglossal nerve supplies all the muscles with motor power. The gustatory or lingual branch of the fifth pair is distributed to the mucous membrane about the apex and sides of the tongue, and endows it with most acute sensibility. Upon this nerve depends the sensation of all ordinary impressions, such as that of hardness, softness, heat, cold, and the like. The glosso- pharyngeal nerve suppHes the mucous membrane at the back and sides of the tongue. It is especiaUy a nerve of taste. DISSECTION OF THE SCALP. An incision should be made from the nose along the mesial line to the occiput; another at right angles to the first from one side of the head to the other. These incisions must not divide more beTnjmed ^^^^ subcutaneous vessels and nerves may not Strata com- The several strata of soft parts coverincr the qkull J^^sthe capa.e-I, the3to; 2, a thta layer of adipose Sue" *t ,,, r f ™ ""^ "»"»'»eou3 vessels and nerres and the bulbs of the hair; and by which the skin is very eloselv Z nected to, 3, the broad thin tendon of the occipito-fr:^^:!:!:154 DISSECTION OF THE SCALP. (aponeurosis of the scaJp) ; 4, an abundance of loose areolar tissue, which permits the free motion of the scalp upon, 5, the pencramum, or periosteum of the skull-cap. Immediately beneath the skin, then, we expose the thm stratum of adipose tissue which connects it to the aponeurosis of the scalp. It forms a bed for the bulbs of the hair and for the ramifications of the cutaneous arteries. The toughness of this tissue, m which the arteries ramify, does not readily permit them to retract when divided; hence the hemorrhage which follows incised wounds ot the scalp: hence, also, the difficulty of dramng them out wath the forceps. The blood-vessels of the scalp are derived, m front, t:llZu,r.-or^^^l arteries; on the sides, from tl^e »1; behind, from the occipital and posterior auricular. Trace the leadTn. trunks, and observe that they subdivide mto branches, Ithlnosci^aie freely, and finally form a vascular -twork among the bulbs of the hair. A few small branches here and there dip down through the aponeurosis of the scalp to the pericranium. The veins accompany the arteries. This cutaneous muscle is closely connected to the scalp. It consists of two fleshy portions one on the --«<=1- occiput, the other on the forehead, connected by a bioad The oricrin of the muscle takes place from the outer "^"""^rrnf^^^ ZlfcLe on the occipital bone, and the ad- :iingt^ P-ess. The'fibres ascend over the Ck of the head, and terminate in the common aponeurosis. The ttri portion, commencing in an arched form the _ transverse wrinkles in the expression of surprise. Like the muscles of expression it is supplied by the facial nerve.155 DISSECTION OP THE SCALP. There are several little muscles to move the cartilage areM-! °^ *^®y tbin and pale; but in animals who possess a more delicate sense of hearing they are much more developed, for the purpose of quickly directing the cartilage of the ear towards the pulse of the air. M. attrahens aurem and attollens aurem.—These little muscles are triangular, and attached by their bases to the aponeurosis of the scalp. The fibres of each converge, and are inserted, those of the former into the front of the helix, those of the latter into the back part of the concha. M, retrahens aurem.—This proceeds from the base of the mastoid process to the lower part of the concha. All the muscles of the ear are supplied by the auricular branch of the facial nerve. Nerves of "^^^^ supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the ophthal- tie scalp. division of the fifth pair. It emerges from the orbit through the notch of the frontal bone, and sub- divides into branches which are covered at fii-st by the fibres of the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis; but they presently become subcutaneous: some of them may be traced over the top of the head as far as the occipital bone. The siijperficial temporal nerves ramify in company with the arteries of the same name. Some of them are derived from the inferior maxillary,.or third division of the fifth pair; others from the facial nei-ve (p. 63). ^ The posterior auricular nerve is a branch of the facial, and runs with its corresponding artery behind the pinna of the ear (p. 63). The great occipital nerve is the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. After passing through the complexus, it appeals on the occiput with the occipital artery, and divides into wide spreading branches. The lesser occipital nerve, a branch of the cervical plexus (p. 3), runs near the posterior border of the in- sertion of the sterno-mastoid. Points of liaise the aponem-osis of the scalp and observe the Sel { 1°^^^ tissue which intervenes between It and the pericranium. Tliis tissue never contains fat. Ihere are many points of surgical interest concerning it • — 1 Its156 EXIT OF CRANIAL NERVES. looseness accounts for the extensive effusions of blood which one sees after injuries on the head: 2. It admits of large flaps of the scalp being detached from the skull-cap; but these flaps do not mortify because they carry their blood-vessels with them: 3. In phlegmonous erysipelas of the scalp, it becomes infiltrated with pus and sloughs ; hence the necessity of making incisions : for the scalp wiU not lose its vitality and Hberate the sloughs like the skm of other parts under similar conditions, and why? because its vessels run above the diseased tissue, and therefore its supply of blood is not cut off. , -, . j ^i. The absorbent vessels of the scalp run backwards towards the occiput where they enter the absorbent glands in that situation. Here, therefore, one finds glandular enlargements when the scalp . is diseased. The brain should now be removed. This organ, with its mem- branes, will be described in a subsequent part of this work At pre- sent we propose to examine the nerves as they pass out of the base of the skuU, and then to dissect the cavernous smus and the orbit. The cranial nerves proceed in pairs through the S:r'' foramina at the base of the skuU; they are named- nerves. £j.gt^ second, third, fourth pair, &c. &c., according to their order of succession from before backwards. The first pair are the olfactory nerves. These camiot be seen, because the olfactory lobes aa-e removed with the braan and torn fiom the delicate filaments which pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The second {optic mwe) passes ttoough the foramen opticum (motor ocu«) passes through the dura mater elose behind the anterior clinoid process. TlVfourth i^athetims), a small nerve, passes through the dura mater a little behind the posterior clinoid process. The fim (trigemmal nerve) passes through an aperture m the dura mater beneath the tentorium cerebelli, just above the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone.CAVERNOUS SINUS. 157 The sixth passes through the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone. The seventh, consisting of the facial and auditory nerves, passes through the meatus auditorius internus. The eighth, consisting of th.e glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, passes through the foramen jugulare. These three divisions do not all pass through the same tube of dura mater. The glosso-pharyngeal has a separate tube anterior to the other two, which have a common one. The ninth, or hypo-glossal nerve, passes through the anterior condyloid foramen. On the inside of the skull, between the dura mater and the bones, observe the ramifications of the arteria meningea media., with its two veins. This artery, a branch of the internal maxillary (p. 69), enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, and divides into two principal branches; one runs in a groove along the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; the other curves backwards over the temporal bone, and subsequently ramifies on the parietal. It supplies the dura mater and the bones. The position of these arteries renders them liable to be injured in fractures of the skull. As a result of their injury, extravasation of blood may take place between the dura mater and the bones, and cause compression of the brain. We must now examine the cavernous sinus, and the nerves which course through its walls to the orbit; namely, the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, and the sixth. CaTemous . ^""^ peculiarities of the cerebral sinus. circulation is, that the returning blood flows through fibrous canals formed by the dura mater, called "sinuses.-" The general anatomy, the course, and names of these canals will be considered with the anatomy of the brain. But the cavernous sinus, for reasons which will appear presently, should be examined immediately before the dissection of the orbit This sinus, then (fig. 33), lies by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. In front it receives the ophthalmic vein which comes through the sphenoidal fissure; behind, the superior and inferior petrosalCAVERNOUS SINUS. 158 sinuses run out of it; on the inner side it communicates with the circular sinus which surrounds the pituitary gland (P. in the dia- gram). Fig. 33. Third nerve . . . Foarth nerve . . . Sixth nerve .... First branch of the fiftli Superior petrosal sinus Inferior petroBal sinus Ophthalmic vehi. Carotid artery. Cavernous sinus. Superior lon- ^tudinal sinus. DIAGEAM OF THE VENOUS SINTISES AT THE BASE OP THE SKULI-. In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus we trace from above downwards the third nerve, the fourth, and the first di^sion of he fifth on their course to the orbit.* On its mner wall we find the sixth nerve, and. the internal carotid artery. These objects are said to be contained in the cavernous sinus; but clearly understand that none of them are bathed in the blood of the smus, because they are separated from it by the lining membrane. * Such is the order in which the nerves are placed in_ the wall of the sintis. As they enter the orbit, the fourth nerve crosses over the third.DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 159 Follow the fifth nerve forwards, that you may see how its sen- sitive root spreads out into a great ganglion, termed after its dis- coverer, the " Gasserian " ganglion. From this ganglion proceed the primary divisions of the nerve; namely, the ophthalmic which passes through the sphenoidal fissure; the superior maxillary, through the foramen rotundum; and the inferior maxillary, thi-ough the foramen ovale. The small motor root of the fifth lies beneath the ganglion, with which it has no communication, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division- to supply the muscles of mastication. Curves of removal of the cavernous sinus, a good view the^carotid is obtained of the remarkable curves, like the letter S,, made by the carotid artery by the side of the sella' turcica. The vessel enters the cranium at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, makes its sigmoid curves, and then passes through the diu-a mater between the anterior clinoid process and the optic nerve: here it gives off the ophthalmic ai-tery. Cavernous superior cervical gangHon of the sympathetic plexus. sends up with the carotid artery filaments, which form a plexus round it in its tortuous course throuo-h the carotid canal, and by the side of the sphenoid. After a careful dissection we may discover with the naked eye in this plexus very small ganglia called carotid or cavernous; but they vary in number, size, and situation. Through these nerves a communi- cation IS established between the sympathetic and the nerves which enter the orbit. (Fig. 34, p. 160.) DISSECTION OF THE OEBIT. The roof of the orbit should be removed as far back as the optic foramen. In doing this, be careful not to injure the little pulley on the inner side for the superior oblique. Periosteum , roof being removed, we expose the fibrous mem- of the orbit, brane which lines the walls of the orbit It is a tinuation of the dura mater through the ',r.hL7^\ fissure. Traced forward, we find that at the mt^t ofthHttDISSECTION OF THE OUBIT. 160 it divides into two layers, one of whicli is continuous with the periosteum of the forehead, the other forms the broad tarsal liga- ment which fixes the tarsal cartilage. The fascia of the orbit serves the same purpose that ^h'^rbit ^^^^^^ other "parts. It provides the lachrymal * ^ ' ■ gland, and eacb of the muscles, with a loose sheath, thin and delicate at the back of the orbit, but stronger near the eye. In this situation it passes from one rectus muscle to the other, so that their tendinous insertions into the globe are connected by it From the insertion of the muscles it is reflected backwards over the globe of the eye, and the optic nerve, and separates the eye from the fat at the bottom of the orbit. T^ere are six muscles to move the eye; four oi which, running in a straight direction, are called the the orbit. recti,'" and are arranged one above, one below, and one on each side of the globe. The remaining two are called from their direction, " obliqui;' one superior, the other S is also a muscle to raise the eyeUd, termed "levator palpeha.. The nerves are: the optic, which passes through the optic foramen ,DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 161 the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, and the sixth, all of which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. The third supplies all the muscles with motor power, except the superior oblique, which is supplied by the fourth, and the external rectus which is supplied by the sixth. The ophthalmic division of the . fifth divides into a frontal, lachrymal, and nasal branch. The orbit contains, also, a considerable quantity of soft fat which forms a bed for the eye and prevents it from being pulled too far back by Its muscles. Upon the quantity of this fat depends, in some measure, the difference in the prominence of the eyes. Its absorp- tion m disease or old age occasions the sinking of the eyes. The eye is separated fi-om the fat by a fold of the orbital fascia, which, like a " tumca vaginalis," enables the globe to roll with the greatest rapidity and precision. Lastly, the orbit contains the lachrymal gland. ■ .1, ^^l^l '■^"""'^'^ periosteum, and the fascia of the orbit the following objects are seen. In the middle we observe the' trontcd nerve and artery, lying upon the levator palpebral; on the inner side is the superior oblique muscle with its nerve (the 4th^ • Ind artery'' ''^^ lachrymal gland with the lachrymal nerve Frontal ^. ''^^ ^^^^^ branches of the ophthalmic nerve. division of the fifth. It rims forwards upon the upper .n. 1 fT. T P^^P^^^^ supra-orbftal notch, through which it ascends to supply the forehead and scalp. In the orbit it gives off the following branch • — ^ a. The mj^ra-trochlear comes from the frontal, runs above the pulley of the superior oblique, to the inner angle ^f the orbit and tT^ ^"PP^^ «f ^he upper eyld forehead and nose. One or two very delicate filaments mlv be raced hrough the bone to the mucous membrane of the Trl J LaebTmal l}^, '\ ^^^^^ ^^lallest of the three divisions of the ophthalmic. It runs along the outer side of the orb t through the lachrymal gland, and is distributed to tho These fUamenta have been noticed by Bh.menbach. '.Be Si„ibu.s Pro„ta,."DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 162 upper eyelid. Its branches within the orbit are — 1, filaments to the lachrymal gland; 2, a malar, which traverses a canal in the malar bone, and supplies the skin of the cheek; 3, one or two nerves which pass down to communicate with the superior maxil- lary division of the fifth. This nerve enters the orbit above the other nerves ne^s'°' which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. It runs patheticus. (ji^ectly to the orbital surface of the superior obHque, to which it is exclusively distributed. This gland is situated within the external angular Lachrymal process of the frontal bone. It is about the size and ^^''''^ shape of an almond. Its upper surface is convex, in adaptation to the roof of the orbit; its lower is concave, in adaptation to the eyeball. The anterior part of the gland bes sometimes detached from the rest, close to the back part of the upper eyelid, and is covered by the conjunctiva. The whole Xd is kept in place by a capsule* formed by the fascia of the orbit. In structure it resembles the salivary glands. It consists of an aggregation of small lobes composed of smaller lobules, connected by areolar tissue. The excretory ducts, seven to ten in number, run parallel, and perforate the conjunctiva about a quarter of an inch above the edge of the tarsal cartilage (fig. 35). They are not easily discovered in the hu- man eye, but in that of the horse or bullock they are large enough to admit a smaU probe. The secretion of the gland keeps the surface of the cornea constantly moist and polished. But if dust, or any foreign substance, irritate the eye, the tears flow in abundance, and wash it off. * This capsule, heuig a little Stronger on the under surface of the gaud, is described and figured by Soemmerring as a distinct ligament; " Icones Oeuli Humani, tab. vu. Fig. 35.DISSECTION or THE ORBIT. 163 M 2 All the muscles of the orbit, except the inferior oblique, arise from the margin of the foramen opticum, and pass forwards, like ribands, to their insertions. Levator '^^^^ muscle arises from the roof of the orbit, imme- palpebL. diately in front of the optic foramen. It gradually increases in breadth, and terminates in a thin aponeu- rosis, which is inserted into the upper surface of the tarsal cartilage beneath the palpebral ligament. It is constantly in action when the eyes are open, in order to counteract the tendency of the lids to fall. As sleep approaches, the muscle relaxes, the eyes feel heavy, and the lids close. ObU uus "^^^^ muscle arises from the inner side of the foramen supenor opticum. It runs along the inner side of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon, which passes through a cartilaginous pulley attached to the roof of the orbit. From this pulley the tendon is reflected outwards and backwards to the globe of the eye. It graduaUy expands, and is inserted into the outer and back part of the sclerotica, between the external and superior recti. The pulley is Kned by a synovial membrane which is con- tinued upon the tendon. The action of this muscle is to roll the eye on its own axis. The frontal nerve and levator palpebrge should now be reflected to expose the superior rectus muscle. Eecti ^^^^^ muscles have a tendinous origin round the muscles. foramen opticum, so that collectively they embrace the optic nerve. They diverge from each other, one above one below, and one on either side of the optic nerve; and are' named, accordingly, rectus superior, inferior, externus, and internus Their broad thin tendons are inserted into the opposite sides of the sclerotic coat of the eye, about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea (fig. 36). The extervnl rectus not only arises from the circumference of the optic foramen, but has another origin from the inner maroin of the sphenoid fissure. Between these origins pass the thld nerve, the nasal branch of the fifth, the sixth, and the ophthalmic164 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Fig. 36. INSERTION OF THE RECTI MUSCLES "WITH ANTERIOR CILIARY ARTERIES. The recti muscles enable us to direct the eye towards different points: hence the names given to them by Albinus — attollens, depressor, adductor, and abductor oculi. It is obvious that, by the single action of one, or the com- bined action of two, the eye can be turned towards any direction. Follow the recti to the eye, in order to see the beautiful shining tendons by which they are in- serted. Notice also the " anterior ciliary arteries " which run to the eye along the tendons. The con- gestion of these little vessels oc- casions the red zone roimd the cornea in iritis. We have already mentioned that the tendons are invested by a fascia, which passes from one to the other, forming a loose tunic over the back of the eye. It is this fascia which resists the passage of the hook in the operation for the cure of squinting. Even after the com- plete division of the tendon, the eye may still be held m its faulty position, if this tissue, instead of possessing its proper soft- ness and pliancy, happen to have become contracted and un- yielding. Under such circumstances it is necessary to divide it freely with the scissors. By removing the conjunctival coat of the eye, the tendons of the recti are soon exposed. The breadth and the precise situation of their insertion deserves attention in reference to the operation for strabismus. The breadth of their insertion is about three eio-hths of an inch, but the line of this insertion is not at all points equidistant from the cornea. The centre of the insertion is nearer to the cornea by about one line than either end. Taking the internal rectus, which, by the way, we have most frequently occasion to divide in strabismus, we find that the centre of its tendon is, upon an average, three lines only from the cornea, the lower part nearly five lines, and the upper four. It is, therefore.DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 165 M 3 very possible that the lower part may be left undivided in the operation, being more in the background than the rest. The tendon of the internal rectus is nearer to the cornea than either of the others. The superior rectus must now be reflected: in doing so, observe the branch of the third nerve, which supplies it and the levator palpebral. After the removal of a quantity of fat, we expose the following parts : —1. The optic nerve. 2. The nasal nerve, the ophthalmic artery and vein, all of which cross over the optic nerve from without inwards. 3. Deeper towai-ds the back of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, is situated the " lenticular " ganglion. Nasal uerve. ^^^^ divisions of the Ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair (p. 160). It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure between the two origins of the external rectus, and then crosses over the optic nerve towards the inner wall of the orbit. After giving off the infra-trochlear branch, the nerve runs out of the orbit through the foramen orbitale anterius, into the cranium, where it lies beneath the dura mater, upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. However, it soon leaves the cranium through a slit near the "crista galli," and enters the nose. Here it sends filaments to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the septum, and upper spongy bone ; but the main continuation of the nerve runs behind the nasal bone, be- comes superficial between the bone and the cartilage, and, under the name of naso-lobular, is distributed to the skin of the end of the nose. The nasal nerve gives off the foUowing branches in the orbit: — a. One or two slender filaments to the lenticular ganglion, h. One or two long ciliary nerves. They run to the back of the globe of the eye, and pass through the sclerotic coat to supnlv the ins. ^ c. Infra-trochlear nerve.—This runs below the pulley of the supenor oblique, and divides into filaments, which supply the skin of the eyelids and the lachrymal sac. :/ ^ ^ ^J-m Optic noxTo. H^^^'^g passed through the optic foramen, this nerve proceeds forwards and a little outwards to the globe of166 DISSECTION OF THE OBBIT. the eye, which it enters on the nasal side of its axis. It is invested by a fibrovis coat derived from the dura mater. At the optic foramen it is surrounded by the tendinous origins of the recti; in the rest of its course, by loose fat and by the ciliary nerves and arteries. This artery arises from the internal carotid. It enters OpMliaJinic ^^^^^ through the optic foramen, outside the optic artery. ° ^ • t i n tj- nerve ; occasionally through the sphenoidal fissure, its coui'se is remarkably tortuous. Situated at first on the outer side of the optic nerve, it soon crosses over it, and runs along the inner side of the orbit to inosculate with the internal angular artery (a branch of the facial). Its branches arise in the following order: — a. LachrynHal artenj.—This branch proceeds along the outer side of the orbit to the lachrymal gland. After supplying the gland, it terminates in the upper eyelid. 6. Supra-orbital artery.—This branch runs forwards with the frontal nerve along the roof of the orbit, and emerges on the forehead through the supra-orbital notch. c. Arteria centralis retince.—This small branch enters the optic nerve, and runs in the centre of this nerve to the interior of the eye. d Ciliary arteries. — These branches proceed tortuously forwards with the optic nerve. They vary from fifteen to twenty in number, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the back of the eye, to supply the choroid coat and the iris. They are sometimes called "pos- terior ciliaryr to distinguish them from others named "anterior ciliaryr which proceed with the tendons of the recti muscles, and enter the front part of the sclerotica. In inflammation of the ins the vascular zone round the cornea arises from enlargement and congestion of the anterior ciliary arteries. , . e. Ethmoidal arteries.-ThBs^ branches pass through the fora- mina on the inner wall of the orbit to supply the mucous membrane of the nose. • t. • • • /. Muscular arteries.—These are uncertain m their ongm. g. Palpebral arteries.-These branches proceed from the lachrymal, nasal, and supra-orbital arteries. h. Nasal arte7'2/.-This branch maybe considered as the ter-DISSECTION OP THE ORBIT. 167 mination of the ophthalmic. It leaves the orbit on the nasal side of the eye, and inosculates with the angular artery (termination of the facial). It supplies the side of the nose and the lachrymal sac. This commences at the inner angle of the eye, by a Ojhthalnuc (;QJJJJJJ^]2ication with the angular and frontal veins. It runs backwards in a more straight course than the artery, receives corresponding branches, and finally passes between the two origins of the external rectus to terminate in the cavernous smus. Ophthalmic '^^i^ ^^^^^ ganglion (o, p. 160), about the size of a or lenticular pin's head, is situated at the back of the orbit, between ganghon. ^-^^ optic nerve and the external rectus. It receives a branch (sensitive root) from the' nasal nerve, another (motor root) from the lower division of the third nerve,^and it also receives {sympathetic) filaments from the plexus round the internal carotid artery. The ganglion' thus fui-nished with motor, sensitive, and sympathetic roots, gives off the ciliary nerves. These, from ten to twelve in number, run forward very tortuously with the optic nerve, pass through the back of the sclerotica, and are distributed to the iris. Since the ciliary nerves derive their motor influence from the third nerve, we see that the iris must lose its power of motion when this nerve is paralysed. m,- '^^^^ before it enters the sphenoidal fissure, the third Third uerve, j • ■ j • j ■, motor ocuH. nerve divides into two branches, both of which pass between the origins of the external rectus. The upper division has been already traced into the superior rectus and levator palpebrae. The lower division supplies a branch to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and then runs along the floor of the orbit to the inferior oblique muscle. What is the result of paralysis of the third nerve ? falling of the upper eyelid (ptosis), external squint, dilatation and immobility of the pupil. Sixth nerre, This nerve enters the orbit between the origins of motor ex- the external rectus, and terminates in fine filaments, which axe exclusively distributed to the ocular surface of this muscle.168 SUPEUIOK MAXILLARY NERVE, Respecting the motor nerves in the orbit, observe that they all enter the ocular surface of the muscles, with the exception of the fourth. Inferioi- '^^^^ muscle arises by a flat tendon from the superior oblique maxillary bone, near the lower part of the lachrymal muscle. groove. It runs outwards and backwards between the rectus inferior and the orbit, then curves upwards between the globe and the external rectus, and is inserted by a broad thin tendon into the outer and back part of the sclerotic coat, close to the tendon of the superior oblique. ^ The use of the oblique muscles is to rotate the eye the oblique upon its antero-posterior axis, so that, however much muscles of ^j^g j^g^d be moved obliquely to one side or the other, the image of the object may be always kept stationary upon one and the same point of the retina. This was first ex- plained by Hunter. He says,— " When the head is moved towai'ds the right shoulder, the superior oblique muscle of the right side acts and keeps the right eye fixed on the object, and a similar effect is produced upon the left eye by the action of its inferior oblique muscle. When the head moves in a contrary direction, the other oblique muscles produce the same efi'ect." * This is at all times of small size, and sometimes branch of Eihsent. It comes from the trunk of the superior the superior maxillary in the spheno-maxillary fossa (see diagram), maxiUary gj^^-g^s the orbit and divides into two branches. Of these, one communicates with the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic; the other, called the " temporo-malar;'f usually divides into two branches, both of which pass through foramina in the malar bone, one to join the temporal branches of the inferior maxillary nerve, the other to supply the sHn of the cheek. „ ,. In order to trace this nerve and its branches, we m^smii^ must remove the outer wall of the orbit, so as to expose spSno'paia- the spheno-maxillary fossa. ■ tinegangUou. The superior maxillary nerve is the second division « Obsci'vations on Certain Parts of the Animal Economy, t " Subcutaneus make" pf Soemmerring and Meckel.169 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. of the fifth cerebral nerve. Proceeding from the Gasserian ganglion (fig. 37), it leaves the skull through the foramen rotun- dum, passes horizontally forwards across the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters the infra-orbital canal with the corresponding artery, and finally emerges upon the face through the infra-orbital foramen. The branches given off are — Pig. 37. Trunk of the fifth nerve . Gasserian gan- glion . . . Facial n. Chorda tyra- pani . , . Submaxillary ganglion Frontal, lacliry- mal, and nasal nn. Orbital branch. Infra-orbital n. Anterior dental n. Naso-palatine n. Palatine n. Gustatory u. DIA.GEAM OP THE SUPEEIOE MAXUXABY NEEVE. 1. Spheuo-palatine gangHon. 2. Otic gaoigUon. a. The orbital branch already described. ^ b. Branches to the spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel's) situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa. c. One or two palatine nerves.—These descend throuo-h the spheno-palatine ganglion to the hard and soft palate. d. Posterior dental branches, two or three. They descend along the back part of the superior maxillary bone, Ll divide into smaller branches which pass through holes in the bone in company wath mmute arteries, and then run up the fangs of the molar teeth to supply the p.dp. They also supply the gums, and the hnmg membrane of the antrum.170 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. e. Anterior dental branch.—This arises just before the nerve emerges from the infra-orbital foramen. It descends in a special canal in the anterior wall of the upper jaw, and gives filaments to the fangs of the first molar, canine, and incisor teeth. It also supplies the gums and the mucous lining of the antrum. /. The terminal branch, namely the mfra-orhital, was dissected with the face (p. 64). At this stage of the dissection make a vertical incision rather on one side of the middle line of the skull, to expose the cavity of the nose. We shall thus be able to dissect the «spheno-palatme ganglion " and its branches. This little body (fig. 37) called, after its discoverer, Se gl" « MeckeUs ganglion," is situated in the spheno-maxil- lary fossa, close to the outer side of the spheno-palatme foramen, immediately below the superior maxillary nerve. Its sensitifve roots proceed from the superiormaxillary its motor from the vidian branch of the facial; and its sympathetic from the carotid plexus. Thus supplied, it furnishes branches to mucous membrane and glands of the hard and soft palate and to the back part of the nose.* * Meckel's gangUon gives off the foUowing branches: — a BrLjJto tkepalate.-To see these the mucous memhrane must be removed Jmfheback part of the nose; we shall then be able to;--;^-™,*^;te r tl!p Wr,alate nearly to the gams of the incisor teeth; but one or two branches along the hard palate ^^e^^^y ™ | ^^^^ ,^tine descends either in proceed backwards o s^ly t^^^ V f^^' ^^^^^ ^ .^^ ,,^,,es the same ''-^Ij^^^^^^/X^^^^ gWs of the soft palate. The posterior exclusively in the ^^^^""^ J ^^^,1 to the soft p^ilate, where rtS^iTl — A. one or two laments pa.s into ''i::;^Lg to wet (Anat. et Physiol, du Systfeme Nerveux: Paris, 1842^ the poft r^or pLtine nfrve\uppHes the levator palati and the ^yfj;^J^^^^ZZ power. In this view of the subject the nerve is considered to be the «°°tmuaUon or TermTnal branch of the motor root of the gangUon, that, namely, derived from the171 OTIC GANGLION. The otic or auricular ganglion was discovered and glion.^*"' described by Arnold, a Grerman anatomist, in 1826.* "It is situated," be says, "on the inner side of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth pair, immediately below its exit through the foramen ovale. (See diagram, page 169.) Its inner surface is in contact with the circumflexus palati muscle and the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and immediately behind it is the middle meningeal artery." It is always of very small size; and, since we have sometimes failed in finding it, we conclude it is not present in all subjects.f facial. THs opinion is supported by cases in -vrHcla the uvula is stated to liave been drawn on one side in consequence of paralysis of the opposite facial nerve. However, we have not succeeded in tracing the nerve into these muscles. b. Sjpheno-palatine or nasal branches.—These, three or four in number, pass through the spheno-paJatine foramen to the mucous membrane of the nose; but they aie very dehcate. To see them clearly, the part should have been steeped for some tune in dilute nitric acid: afterwards, when weU washed, these minute nerves may be easily recognised beneath the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones. Most of them ramify upon the outer waU of the nose and the spongy bones. One branch, fig 37 originaUy caUed by Scarpa " naso-palatine," ti-averses the roof of the nose, distributes filaments to the back part of the septum narium, and then proceeds obHquely forwards along the septum to the foramen incisivnm, through which it passes, and finaUy terminates m the palate behind the incisor teeth. According to Cloquet, the corresponding nerves of opposite sides unite at the foramen incisivum in a smaU gangUon which he caUs the « naso-palatine " Dissert sur les Odeurs et les Organes de 1'Olfaction: Paris, 1815. c. Branches to the pharynx and Eustachian tube.—In parts prepared for the pur- pose we may sometimes trace minute filaments to the mucous membrane of the back of the nares, the Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal sinus. d Vidian branch.—This proceeds, from the posterior part of the gangHon back- wards through the vidian canal of the sphenoid bone, traverses the flbro-caitUage at the base of the skull, and here divides into two branches, fig. 38. One joins the sym pathetic plexus about the internal carotid artery; the other (sometimes caUed the areat petrosal) entevs the craniimi, runs under the Gasserian gangUon and the dura mater m a small groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the "hiatu^ f r '^"^"^ ^* ^^^^ -erve proceed^ not from, but to the gangHon, and that it is the medium through wMch motor filaments are conveyed to it. »v"ii,u motor * J. Arnold, Diss, inaug. med. &c.: Heidelbergse, 1826 t Eespecting its connections with other nerves, Arnold states that the otic cantrlion denves filaments (of sensation) from the inferior m.oxiUary, and also from L' b an of this nerve, which goes to the internal pterygoid muscle. It also denVe a S172 DISSECTION OF THE EIGHTH PAIR OF NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. In this dissection we propose to examine the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves in the jugular fossa, and the little ganglia and nerves belonging to them in this part of their course. These are very minute points of anatomy, and can- not be followed out with success unless the nerves have been previously hardened by spirit, and the bones softened by acid. The first thing to be done is to remove the outer wall of the jugular fossa. ' This nerve passes through a separate tube of dura ?^°'e°a?^*" mater in front of that for the other two nerves. Look- rynge . _^ ^^^^ interior of the skull we observe that it is situated immediately in front and rather to the inner side of the jugular fossa. In its passage thi-ough the fossa, the nerve presents two gan- glionic enlargements, named respectively the jugular and the petrous. The jugular ganglion (ganglion superius) has been particularly filament from the temporo-auricular nerve. Its communication with the sympathetic is estabUshed by filaments which proceed from the "nervi moUes " round the inter- nal maxillajy artery. It communicates also with the facial and glosso-pharjoigeal nerves by a branch commonly caUed the lesser petrosal nerve. This nerve passes backwards either through the foramen ovale or the foramen spinosum, or through a sman hole between the two, and runs beneath the dura mater along a nrmute groove on the petrous bone (outside the great petrosal nerve). Here it divides into two filaments, one of which joins the facial nerve in the aqueductus Eallopu, the other joins the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. These nerves are exceedin^y difficult to trace, not only on account of their minute size, but also because they frequently run in canals in the petrous portion of the temporal bone._ _ The otic ganglion appears to send a branch to the tensor tympani and to the cir- cumflexus palati muscles. • i » it It may fairly be asked why Arnold called the gangUon "otic or auricular. He states that by means of a filament from the lesser petrosal it commimicates with tue auditory nervo. But tHs must be doubtful, to say the least, since uo other anatomist has, so far as wo know, traced any conuectiou of the kind.GANGLION OF ANDERSCH. 173 described by Miiller.* It is found upon the nerve immediately after its entrance into the canal of the dura mater, and is so small that its size does not in any dii-ection exceed of an inch. It occupies the outer side of the nerve, and does not implicate all its fibres. According to my observation, this ganglion is frequently absent. It is not introduced in the following diagram. Fig. 38. DIAGBAM OP THE EIGHTH PAIE AT THE BASE OF THE SKTJLL. 1. Facial n. 2. Glosso-pliaryngeal n. 3. Pneumo-gastric n. 4. Nemis accessorius. 5. Jacobson's n. 6. Lesser petrosal. 7. Great petrosal, or vidian n. 8. Branch to Eustaeliian tube. 9. Auricular branch of Arnold. 10. Spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion. 11. Otic gangHon. 12. Chorda tympani. The petrous ganglion (called, after its discoverer, the ganglion of Anderschf) is situated upon the Klosso-pharyngeal nerve, near * Medicin. Zeitung, Berlin, 1833, No. 52. t Andersch, Fragm. descript. nerv. cardiac, 1791.jacobson's nerve. 174 the lower part of the jugular fossa. It is oval, and about ^ of an inch long. It is connected by filaments to the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic nerves, and it gives'off the tympanic or Jacobson's nerve.* This tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal ascends through a minute canal in the bony ridge which separates the carotid from the jugular fossa, to the inner wall of the tympanum, and terminates in several filaments. One traverses a bony canal to the plexus of sympathetic nerves round the carotid artery; a second goes to the fenestra ovalis ; a third to the fenestra rottmda; a fourth is distributed to the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube; a fifth ascends in front of the fenestra ovalis, and joins the great petrosal nerve in the hiatus Fallopii; a sixth takes nearly a similar course, and under the name of the lesser petrosal nerve proceeds along the front surface of the petrous bone to the otic ganglion. Thus it would appear that this tjnnpanic branch is distributed to the mucous membrane of the tympanum and the Eustachian tube, and that it communicates with the spheno-palatine ganglion through the great petrosal nerve, and with the otic ganglion through the lesser petrosal. This nerve leaves the cranium with the nervus acces- g^steS sorius, through a canal in the dura mater behind that nerve. ^j^g glosso-pharyngeal. At its entrance into the canal it is composed of a number of separate filaments ; but these soon become imbedded in a small ganglion. This ganglion, first described by Arnold f, is about j\ of an inch in diameter. It is connected by filaments to the sympathetic and to the petrous gan- glion of the glosso-pharyngeal. But its most singular branch is one named by Arnold "the auricular," because it is distributed to the pinna of the ear. This branch enters a minute foramen in the jugular fossa, near the styloid process, and then proceeds through the substance of the bone to the aqueductus Fallopii, where it divides into two branches; one joins the facial nerve, the other passes to the outside of the head through a canal between the front * This nerve, though commonly called Jacobson's, was fuUy described by t Der Kopftheil. des veget. Nei-ven Systems. Heidelberg, 1831.175 DISSECTION OP THE NOSE. of the mastoid process and the meatus auditorius^ and is distributed to the cartilage of the ear, and the meatus auditorius. Immediately below this its first ganglion the pneumo-gastric nerve is joined by two branches from the nervus accessorius, and consequently becomes after this jrmction a compound nerve. The second or inferior ganglion of this nerve below the base of the skull has been already examined (p. 79). Portio dura portio dura or facial nerve, having arrived at through the the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus, enters the t^emporal » aqueductus Fcdlopii."* This is a tortuous canal ex- cavated through the substance of the temporal bone, and terminating at the stylo-mastoid foramen. When exposed throughout its whole course, we observe that the nerve proceeds from the meatus internus for a short distance outwardly, then makes a sudden bend backwards along the inner wall of the tym- panum above the fenestra ovalis, and lastly, curving downwards at the back of the tympanum, it leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its branches in the temporal bone are : a. The great petrosal nerve (vidian) which runs to the spheno- palatine ganglion (p. 169). b. The lesser petrosal nerve, which runs to the otic ganglion. c. Chorda tympanl—This nerve arises from the facial about ^ of an inch before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, ascends for a short distance in a bony canal at the back of the tympanum, and enters that cavity below the pyramid and close to the mem- brana tympani. It then runs forwards along the tympanum, across the handle of the malleus, to the fissura G-laseri, through which it emerges at the base of the skull, and joining the gustatory nerve, finally proceeds to the sub-maxillary ganglion. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Presuming that the learner is familiar with the bones composing the skeleton of the nose, we shall now describe—]. The nasal * FaUopius was a distinguished Italian anatomist, and professor at Pavia, 1651.176 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. cartilages; 2. The general figure and arrangement of the nasal cavities ; 3. The membrane which lines them; and lastly, the dis- tribution of the olfactory nerves. Two pieces of fibro-cartilage on either side assist Caitilages of forming the framework of the external nose; and one in the centre completes the septum between the nasal fossse. j. i i • fv, The cartilage of the septum is placed perpendicularly m the middle line; it may lean a little, however, to one side or the other and in some rare instances it is perforated, so that the two nasal' cavities communicate with each other. Its outline is neariy trian-ular. TJie posterior border is received into a groove m the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and the vomer; the anterior border is much thicker than the rest of the septum, and is con- nected, superiorly, with the nasal bones, and on either side with the lateral cartilages. ™ There are two lateral cartilages, an upper and a lowei. ine nwer is connected, superiorly, to the margin of the na.al and Slary bones, anteriorly to the cartilage of the septum, and Sferiorly to the lower cartilage by means of a tough fibrous mem- brane The ^o^eris sometimes called the cartilage of the pmna It • s c^ed upon itself in such a way as to form the boundary of the external opening of the nose. Superiorly, it is connected by fibrous LtmwTto the upper lateral cartilage; intei-nally it ™tac with its fellow of the opposite side, formmg the upper part ot the "nanasi; " posteri'orly, it is attached by fi^rou^ t^^^^^o the • ^c^lllnrv bone • in this tissue, at the base of the ala, are S^forrt-^^^^^^^ nodules of cartilage, called " cc^t^c^es rlla- We cannot but admire how well these c..dages are adapted to their office. By their elasticity they keep the ^olltontinuaUy open, and restore them to th.r ordinary size whenever they have been expanded by muscular action. The Uttle muscles moving the nasal cartilages have been de scribed with the dissection of the face (p. 56). By making a vertical section through the nasal Interior of ^^^^^-^ ^ Httle on one side of the middle line, we ex- pose the partly bony and partly cartilaginous partitionDISSECTION or THE NOSE. 177 {septum naviiLm) by which they are divided. We notice that the greatest perpendicular depth of each nasal fossa is about the centre, and that from this point the depth gradually lessens, both towards the anterior and the posterior openings of the nose. Laterally, each fossa is very narrow in consequence of the projection of the spongy bones towards the septum : this narrowness in the transverse direction explains the rapidity with which swelling of the lining membrane from a simple cold obstructs the passage of air. The boundary of the nasal fossae is formed by the following bones: Superiorly, are the nasal, the ethmoid, and the body of the sphenoid; inferiorly, are the horfzontal plates of the maxillary and palate bones; internally, is the smooth and flat septum formed by the ethmoid, the vomer, and the cartilage; externally, are the maxillary, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, the palate, and the ptery- goid plate of the sphenoid. Meatus of" '^^^ ""^^^^ ""^"^^^ divided by the the nose, turbinated bones into three compartments (meatus) of unequal size ; and in,, these are orifices leading to air-cells (sinuses) in the sphenoid, ethmoid, frontal, and superior maxillary bones. Each of these compartments we should individually examine. The suj)eTior meatus is the smallest of the three, and does not extend beyond the posterior half of the wall of the nose. We find in it one wide opening, which leads into the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells. The middle meatus is larger than the superior. At its anterior part is a long narrow passage (infundibulum), which conducts upwards to the frontal and the anterior ethmoidal cells. About the middle is a small opening which leads into the antrum of the superior maxilla: this opening in the dry bone is large and irregular ' but m the recent state it is reduced nearly to the size of a crow- quill by mucous membrane, so that a very little swelling of the membrane is sufficient to close the orifice entirely Notice that the orifices of the frontal and ethmoid cells are so nor But'thf"7!r the nose. But this is not the case with the sphenoid and maxillary■j^Yg DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. cells • to empty wMch the head must be mclined on one side To ee In these openiugs you must raise the respective turWed bones the outer wall of the nose. By raisink the lower turbinated bone le observe, towards the front of the meatus, the te—^^^^^ the nasal duct, through which the tears pass lachrymal sac into the nose. This sac and duct we can now con veniently examine. i,- -u fpar's are ' This is the passage through which the tears are the eye. ihe sac is oump mucous which adheres very closely to the bone ^ Ix-d b^^^^^ membrane. Its front surface is covered by the tenao the fascia proceeding from it. backwards. ThedJction of tte aa.al duct i. ^^^l^^oil^^r^^^-^ to tommatioB is guarded by a '^1™'''^'°'*,°^,"™"! «Mle the consequently, .hen ai. is blown mto '^^^^^^^r^^dltended. nostril are closed, the lax^hrymalsM, does not becom^^^^ Behind the inferior Unbinated ^one « J^^8 Eustachian tube (p. 137). 1-'°'^^J^ ^ p'*- 'T'- ,ve ought to practice the ^-'^"^-"''"l''^ the cul-de-sac difficulty is to prevent the probe from shppmg into between the tube and the back of tte phalanx This membrane lines the cavities ol tn Mr-ce,.s about »^-^r^IirlCe! of'the — S^tedrJIt ^I-dispt^L tbic. and loose folds. description of tlu« membrane. Do CatairUis.DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 179 • Such a fold is sometimes so prominent that it might be mistaken during life for a polypus. The membrane varies in thickness and vascularity in different parts of the nasal cavities. Upon the lower half of the septum and the lower turbinated bones it is much thicker than elsewhere, in consequence of a minute plexus of arteries and veins in the submucous tissue. The veins are espe- cially numerous. Their sudden turgescence produces the temporary obsti-uction so common in an ordinary cold. In the sinuses, the mucous membrane is thinner, less vascular, and closely applied upon the periosteum. The great vascularity of the Schneiderian membrane is obviously mtended to elevate the temperature of the inspired air, and to poiu- out a copious secretion which answers the double pui-pose of partially saturating the air with vapour, and preventing the membrane from becoming too dry. Every one is aware that breathmg is performed more comfortably through the nose than through the mouth. Near the nostrils the mucous membrane is furnished with papillae and a scaly epithelium, like the skin. In the sinuses and all the lower regions of the nose, the epitheHum is columnar, and provided with ciha; but in the upper part of the nose, where the sense of smell resides, we no longer find ciUated epithelium, but a soft pulpy stratum of nucleated cells.* Blood-yes- arteries of the nose are, the ethmoidal and nasal interim of ""^^^ ^^'^ Ophthalmic, and the nasal branch of the the'nose° i^iternal maxillary, which enters the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen. The external nose is supplied by the arteria lateralis nasi. The veins of the nose correspond to the arteries. They commu- mcate with the veins within the cranium through foramina in the vem and the cavernous sinus. These communications explain the relief afforded by hemorrhage from the nose in cases of cexebi'l congestion. ^^-xeuidi * See Bo^vmun and Todd, Physiolog. Anatom, cap. xvi.IgQ MUSCLES OF THE BACK. The olfactory filaments, proceeding from each olfactory Olfactory anglion, in number about twenty on either side, pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the eth- moid bone. In its passage each filament is invested mth a coat derived from the dura mater; so that these filaments, although soft and easily torn within the skull, are, outside it, as firm as any other nerves. To make them more conspicuous, the bones should be steeped in dilute nitric acid. We divide them into an ^u7^er, a middle, and an outer set. The inner traverse the grooves on the upper part of the septum, and terminate in minute filaments be- tween the periosteum and the mucous membrane. They cannot Z traced bLv the upper half of the septum The ^ the roof of the nose. The outer pass through grooves m the upper and middle turbinated bones, and are lost m the mucous mem- brane on the convex surfaces of these bones.* The olfactory .re nerves of special sense. The common sen- sibmty of the mUus membrane of th e nose is supphed by branches f om the fifth pair of nerves; namely, the nasal branch of the ■ oph'h Imic (p. 160), and the nasal branch of the spheno-palatme .Con (p 169). That the sense of smell is mdependent of Sfclmon sens bility of the nose is proved by expenment and by pat'Sogy. For instance, any disease affecting the olfactory nLve evenle inflammation in a common cold, impan. the sense 7 men, whereas the common sensation of the pari, contmues equaUy acute, and becomes even more so, as one may readrly ascertain by introducing a foreign body into the nostril. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Those muscles of the back, namely, the trapezius, Ipngi-imj dors^ levator anguli scapul., and rhomboidei which are —^ ^^^^^^^ movements of the upper extremity, will be —^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ tion of the arm. These, therefore, having been removed, A^e pro * See the beautiful plates of Scarpa and Soemmen-iiig.181 MUSCLES OF THE BACK.- N 3 ceed to examine two' muscles, named from their appearance "senxoti,'" which extend from the spine to the ribs. Serratns '^^^^ muscle is situated beneath the rhomboidei. It posticus arises from the ligamentum nuchse*, the spines of the superior. -j^^^ cei-vical, and two or three tipper dorsal vertebrse, by a sheet-like aponeurosis which makes up nearly half the muscle: the fibres run obliquely downwards, and are inserted by fleshy slips into the second, third, fourth, and sometimes the fifth, ribs beyond their angles. Its action is to raise these ribs, and therefore to assist in inspiration. Serratus ^his muscle is situated beneath the latissimus dorsi. posticus It ai^es from the strong aponeurosis called "fascia lumborum,'' ascends obliquely, and is inserted by fleshy slips into the four lower ribs external to their angles. The tendency of its action is to pull down these ribs, and therefore to assist in expiration. Vertebral "^^^^ aponeurosis extends from the spines of the ver- aponeurosis. tebrse to the angles of the ribs, and serves to confine the " erector spinse" in the vertebral groove. Observe that it pi'oceeds from the upper border of the serratus posticus inferior, and that it is continued beneath the upper serrate muscle, so as to bind down the splenius. Splenius. ^^^^ arises from the spines of the four or five upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebra, and from more or less of the ligamentum nuchse. The fibres ascend and divide into two portions, named, according to their respective insertions, sple- nius capitis and splenius colli. a. The splenius capitis is inserted into the mastoid process, and .the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone beneath the sterno- mastoid. b. The splenius colli is inserted by tendinous slips into the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrse. * The ligamentum nuch^ is a mcUuient of the great elastic ligament of quadrupeds (termed the pac e.as) which supports the weight of the head. It proceeds fitm he Bpme of the occput to the spines of aU the cervical rertebrfe exceJZ lZ. V wise it would interfere with the free rotation of the head, ^ 'MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 182 The action of the splenius, taken as a whole, is to draw the head and the upper cervical vertehrse towards its own side: so far, it co-operates with the opposite sterno-mastoid muscle. When the splenii of opposite sides contract, they extend the cervical portion of the spine, and keep the head erect. The permanent contraction of a single splenius may occasion " wry neck." It is necessary to be aware of this, otherwise one might suppose the opposite sterno- mastoid to be affected, considering that the appearance of the distortion is alike in either case. The mass of muscle which occupies the vertebral Erector groove on either side of the spine, is, collectively, called sprnse. ttgrector spinffi," since it coimteracts the tendency of the trunk to fall forwards. We observe that it is thickest and strongest at that part of the spine where it has the greatest weight to support, namely, in the lumbar region; and that its thickness gradually decreases towards the top of the spine. The dense and shining aponeurosis which covers the f^^f'' erector spinse is called "fascia lumborum." Observe lumborum. ^ J:^ , , r j^i •^• 4.„ +1,^ that it is attached to the crest of the ilium, to the spines of the lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and sacral vertebra. Its use is, not only to form a sheath for the erector spinse, but to give origin to the latissimus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior,' the internal oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen. If you make a vertical incision through it and reflect it, you will see that on the outer side of the erector spinse it is inseparably connected with the tendinous attachments of the internal oblique and transversalis to the transverse processes of the lumbar ver- The fascia lumborum having been reflected, we observe that the erector spinse arises tendinous from the sacrum and iHum and the spines of the lumbar vertebrae. From this extensive origin the muscular fibres ascend, at first as a single mass. Near the last nb, however, this mass divides into two; an outer, called the "sacro- lumhalis;" an inner, the " longissimus dorsi." These two portions should be followed up the back; and there is no difiiculty in doing so, because the division is indicated by a longitudinal groove, in183 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. which we observe the cutaneous branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Tracing the sacro-lumbalis upwards, we find that it balis°"'"™" terminates in a series of tendons which are inserted into the ansfles of the six lower ribs. By tiu-ning outwards the sacro-lurabalis, we observe aeeessorhis. continued upwards under the name of " mus- culus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem." This arises by a series of tendons from the angles of the seven or eight lower ribs, and is inserted into the angles of the five or six upper ribs. This is the cervical continuation of the musculus Mcendens ^ccessorius. It arises by tendinous slips from the four or five upper ribs, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the four or five lower cervical vertebrae. The longissimus dorsi (the inner portion of the erector mus^orsi spinse) terminates in tendons which are inserted into the tubercles * at the root of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, also into the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and into the greater number of the ribs (varying from eight to eleven) close to their junction with the transverse processes. This is the cervical continuation of the longissimus dorsi. saHs colH. arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth dorsal vertebra, and is inserted into the transverse processes of four cervical vertebrae. This muscle, situated on the inner side of the pre- mlstoid?' ceding, is the continuation of the transversalis colli to the cranium. It arises from the transverse processes of the three or four lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the back part of the mastoid process beneath the splenius.f * Called " anapophyses " by Professor Owen> ■ t Those who are familiar with the transcendental nomcnclaturo of the vertebrate skeleton, will understand, from the following quotation, the plan upon whicli tlie muscles or the back are arranged : — "The muscles of the back are either longitudinal or oblique; that is, they either N 4184 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. This is a long narrow muscle, situated close to the SpinaUs ^^[jyes of the dorsal vertebra3, and apparently a part of the longissimus dorsi. It arises from the spines of the two lower dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted also by little tendons into the spines of the six or eight upper dorsal vertebrae. The muscles of the spine hitherto examined are all longitudinal in their direction. We now come to a series which run obliquely from the transverse to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. And first of the complexus. This powerful muscle arises from the transverse pro- Complexus. ^^^^^^ dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, also from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. It is inserted between the two curved pass YerticaUy cWwards from spinous process to spinous process, from diapopl^sis to diapophysis, fromribtorib(plem-apophyses), &c., or they extend obliquely from diapopliYsis to spine, or from diapophysis to pleurapopliysis, &e. ''The erector spin» is composed of two planes of longitudinal fibres aggregated together below, to form one mass at their point of origin, from the spines and pos- terior siu-faceof the sacrum, from the sacro-iliac ligament, and from the posterior third of the iliac crest. It diyides into two portions, the sacro-lumbahs and the ^°°^Thrformer arising from the Hiac crest, or from the pleurapopliysis (rib) of the first saeral vertebra, is inserted by short flat tendons into (1.) the apices of the stunted lumbar ribs close to the tendinous origins of the traoisversalis abdominis; (2.) the angles of the eight or nine inferior dorsal ribs; (3.) it is inserted, through the medium of the musculus accessorius, into the angles of the remaining superior ribs and into the long and occasionally distinct pleurapophysial element of the seventh cervical Tertebra- and (4.) through the medium of the cervicaUs ascendens, into the pleura- pophysial elements of the third, foiu.th, fifth, and sixth cervical vert.br^. In^her wordl the muscular fibres extend from rib to rib, from the sacrum to the third cemcal ""'"Jbe longissimus dorsi, situated nearer the spine than the sacro-lumbalis, is in- serted (1 ) Lo the metapophysial spine of the lumbar diapophyses; (2.) into the Cophyses of aU the dorsal vertebra, near the origin of the levatores costarum; )Trough the medium of the transversaUs colli into the diapophyses of the second^ tod, fo Jh. fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra; and (4.) through the medium of the trachelo-mastoid into the mastoid process, or the only element f-^l^-^^;: possessed by the parietal vertebra. In other words, its fibres extend fronidiapophj sis to diapophysis, from the sacrum, upwards, to the parietal revtehr.."-Hovtoloffus of ihe Huvian Skeleton, by H. Coote, p. 76.MUSCLES OV THE BACK. 185 lines of the occiput, near the vertical crest. In the centre of the muscle there is generally tendinous tissue.* The muscle is perfo- rated by the posterior branches of the second (the great occipital), thir-d, and fourth cervical nerves. Its action is to keep the head erect. Eeflect the complexus to see the " arteria cervicalis profunda" (p. 45), and the posterior branches of the cervical nerves. This is the mass of muscle which lies in the vertebral spinalis. groove after the reflection of the complexus and the erector spinse. It consists of a series of fibres which extend between the transverse and spinous processes of the dorsal and cervical vertebras, and is usually divided into the " semispinalis colli," and " semispinalis dorsi." a. The seviispinalis colli arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebras, and is inserted into the spines of the axis and the thi-ee or four succeeding vertebrse. b. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spines of the upper dorsal and the two or three lower cervical vertebrje. Now reflect part of the semispinalis dorsi in order to expose the "multifidus spincer This may be considered a part of the pre cedmg muscle, since its fixed points and the direction of its fibres are the same. It consists of a series of little muscles which extend between the spmes and transverse jDrocesses of the vertebrae from the sacrum to the second cervical vertebra. Those in the lumbar region are the largest. They arise by tendinous slips' from the transverse processes in the sacral and dorsal region, and from the articular processes in the lumbar and cervical region. They aD ascend obliquely, and are inserted into the spines and laminae of aU the vertebra excepting the atlas. It should be observed that their fibres are not of uniform length; some extend only from vertebra ZZ^Z^" - three ~s as a sepa^a.' tissue in the ceutre of it. ' ^ ^ ^"<=h tendinous t ^--tl^tl^-ultifidusspin.wefi.d,intWorsalregionofthespineonly elo.en186 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. The action of these oblique muscles is not only to assist in maintaining the trunk erect, but to bend the spine to one or the other side. These little muscles arise from the apices of the Levatores transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and are costarum. ^^^^^^^^^ -^^^ ^j^^ j.-^ helovf. The direction of their fibres corresponds with that of the outer layer of the intercostal muscles. They are muscles of inspiration. These muscles extend between the spines of the ver- Interspi- tebrse. They only exist in those parts of the vertebral column which are the most moveable, namely the cervical and lumbar regions. In the cervical region they are arranged in pairs. In the'lumbar region they are single. These muscles extend between the transverse pro- Intertrans- ^^^^08 in the cervical and lumbar regions. In the neck Tersales. ^^^^ arranged in pairs, like the interspinals, and the corresponding cervical nerve separates one from the other. In the loins they are arranged singly. We have next to examine the muscles concerned in the move- ments of the head upon the first and second vertebrae. The com- plexus must be previously reflected. This is a largely developed interspinal muscle. It ^^T^osticu. arises from the well marked spine of the second ver- major. ^^^^^^ ^^^^ expanding considerably, is %')iseHed below the inferior cmved ridge of the occipital bone; in other words, into the spine of the occipital vertebra. This is also an interspinal muscle, but smaller than ^tfposticus the preceding. Arising from the feebly developed minor. -^^ the first vertebra, it expands as it ascends, and is inserted into the occipital bone between the inferior curved ridge and the foramen magnum. The action of the two precedmg muscles is to raise the head. little flat muscles, called by Theile (Miiller's Archives f. Anat. &c 1839) wLo first . described them, " rotatorcs spin<Br They arise from the upper part of the h-ansve^e process, and are inserted into the lower border of the lamma of the vertebra above. These muscles form but a part of the multifidus spinte.MUSCLES OP THE BACK. 187 This at-ises from the spine of the second vertebra, and inferior inserted into the transverse process of the first. Its action is to rotate the first upon the second vertebra; in other words to turn the head round. Obli T "^^^^ muscle arises from the transverse process of the superior ^^^^ vertebra, and is inserted in the interval between the curved ridges of the occiput. Its action is to draw the occiput towards the spine. Observe that the obliqui and recti muscles of one side form the sides of a triangle, in which we find the branches of the suboccipital nerve, the vertebral artery, and the arch of the atlas. Eectus ca i "^^^^ ^^^^^ muscle extends between the transverse tis lateralis. Process of the first vertebra and the eminentia jugu- laris of the occiput; but since this eminence is the transverse process of the occipital vertebra, the muscle must be considered as an intertransverse one. Nerves of Posterior branches of the spinal nerves supply the the back, muscles and skin of the back. They pass backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebra?, and divide into external and internal branches. The general plan upon which these nerves are arranged is the same throughout the whole length of the spine; but since there are certain peculiarities deservmg of notice in particular situations, we must examine each region separately. Cervical '^^^ posterior division of the first cervical nerve (the region. Suboccipital) passes between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery, and divides into branches which supply the recti and obliqui muscles concerned in the movement of the head upon the first two vertebrae. The posterior branch (the great occipital) of the second cervical nerve is the largest of the series. It turns upwards beneath the inferior oblique muscle, passes through the complexus, and runs with the occipital artery to the back of the scalp _ The posterior divisions of the six lower cervical nerves divide into external and znternal branches. The exte^^cU are small and terminate m the splenius, and the continuation of tl ^ rectorMUSCLES OF THE BACK. 188 spinse. The inteimal, by far the larger, proceed towards the spines of the vertebrae ; those of the third, fourth, and fifth between the complexus and the semisplnalis * ; those of the sixth, seventh, and eighth between the semisplnalis and the multifidus spinse: after supplying the muscles they terminate in the skin. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this Dorsal region come out between the transverse processes and region. tendons attached to them. They soon divide into external and internal branches. The external pass obliquely over the levatores costarum, between the sacro-lumbalis and the longis- simus dorsi; and successively increase in size from above down- wards. The upper six terminate in the erector spinse and the levatores costarum ; the rest, after supplying these muscles, pass through the latissimus dorsi, and become the cutaneous nerves of the back. The internal successively decrease in size from above downwards. They run towards the spine between the semisplnalis and the inultifidus spinse. The upper six, after giving branches to the muscles, perforate the trapezius and become cutaneous nerves. The lower ones terminate in the muscles of the vertebral groove. The general arrangement of the nerves in this region Liimbar resembles that of the dorsal. Their external branches region. the multifidus spinse; their internal, after sup- plying the erector spinse, become cutaneous. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this ^■^"^r^^ region are small. They come out of the spinal canal region. foramina in the back of the sacrum. The upper two or three divide into external and internal branches. The imternal terminate in the muscles; the external become cuta- nous. The last two sacral nerves proceed, without dividing, to the integument. . . The coccygeal nerves are exceedingly small, and termmate in the skin.f * The posterior branches of the second, third, and fourth nerves are generally con- nected, beneath the complexus, by branches in the form of loops. This constitutes the posterior cervical plexus of some anatomists. t The branching of the posterior divi.sions of the several spinal nerves has been accurately described by Mr. Ellis, Med. Gazette, Feb. 10th, 1843.189 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. The vessels which supply the back are: — 1. Small the back. branches from the occipital; 2. Small branches from the vertebral; 3. The deep cervical; 4. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. The occipital artery furnishes several small branches to the muscles at the back of the neck: among others, one (called the princeps cervicis) descends beneath the complexus, and in some subjects inosculates with the deep cervical artery. The deep cervical artery is the posterior branch of the first in- tercostal artery. It ascends between the complexus and the semi- spinalis muscles. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries accompany the corresponding nerves, and are in all respects similar to them in distribution. They all send a branch into the spinal canal. The veins correspond to the arteries. Pb^-yeb- have, lastly, to examine three muscles situated in TEBRAL front of the spine ; namely, the longus colli, the rectus capitis anticus major, and the rectus capitis anticus minor. In order to have a complete view of the two latter, a special dissection should be made before the head is removed from the first vertebra. Longus com. ™^ muscle is situated in front of the spine, and extends from the third dorsal to the first cervical ver- tebra. For convenience of description it is divided into two sets of fibres, of which one extends longitiulinally from the body of one vertebra to that of another; the other extends obliquely between the transverse processes and the bodies of the vertebra\ The longitudinal portion of the muscle arises from the bodies of the two or three upper dorsal and the two lower cervical ver- tebra, and is inserted into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. The oblique portion, arising from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebra, ascends inwards, and is inserted into the front part or body of the first cervical vertebra. Other oblique fibres proceed from the bodies of the three upper190 LIGAMENTS OP THE SflNE. dorsal vertebrae, aud are inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrse. The action of the muscle, taken as a whole, must be to bend the cervical region of the spine. „ , ^. This muscle arises from the transverse processes of Eectus capi- '■ tis anticns the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and major. jj^ggj-^-g^j Jj^^q ^|^g basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum. Eectus ca- T^^s muscle arises from the transverse process of the pitis anti- first cervical vertebra, and is inserted into the basilar cus rninoi. pj,Qgggg Qj.- ^jjg occipital bone, nearer to the foramen magnum than the preceding muscle. The action of the recti muscles is to bend the head forwards. LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. The vertebrae are connected by their intervertebral fibro-carti- lages, by ligaments in front of and behind their bodies, and by ligaments which extend between their arches and their spines. Their articular processes have capsular ligaments, and synovial membranes. This is a strong band of longitudinal fibres which co^o°n extends along the front of the bodies of the vertebra from Ugament. ^-^^ g^^-g sacrum. The fibres are not all of equal length. The more superficial extend from a given vertebra to the fifth or sixth below it; those a little deeper pass from a given vertebra to the second or third below it; while the deepest of all proceed from vertebra to vertebra. The ligament becomes broader and stronger in proportion to the size of the vertebrae. By making transverse incisions through it in different situations, we observe that its fibres are more firmly adherent to the intervertebral cartilages, and to the borders of the vertebras, than to the middle of the bones, j^^^^. These bands of ligamentous fibres fill up the intervals spinous between the spines of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae, ligaments, rj^^^^ j^^gj. j^arked in the lumbar region. Those fibres which connect the apices of the spines, being stronger than191 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. the Test, are described by some anatomists as sepai'ate ligaments, imder the name of supraspinous. Their use is to limit the flexion of the spine. These are called, on account of their colour, ligamenta between" ^ suhflciva.—To obtain a good view of them, we ought to the arches remove the arches of the vertebrae with a saw. We then 01 the Ter- tebra. see that they extend from the arch of one vertebra to that of the next, filling up the intervals between them. Their strength increases with the size of the vertebrte. But the chief peculiarity about them is that they are exceedingly elastic. This elasticity answers a double pm-pose: it not only permits the spine to bend forwards, but materially assists in restoring it to its curve of rest They economise muscular force, like the ligamen- tum nuchas in animals. Posterior ^^^^ extends longitudinally in a similar manner to U ament anterior common ligament, along the posterior sur- ^^^^"^ • face of the bodies of the vertebrse, from the occiput to the sacrum. Interverte- This substance is by far the strongest bond of connexion cartnage°" ^^^'^^'^^ vertebrae, and fulfils most important pur- poses in the mechanism of the spine. Its peculiar structure is adapted to break shocks, and to render the spine flexible and resilient. The best way to see the structure of an intervertebral fibro-cartilage is to make a horizontal section throuo-h one of them : say in the lumbar region. We then observe that°it IS firm and resisting near the circumference, but soft and pulpy towards the centre. The circumferential portion is composed of concentric layers of fibro-cartilage, placed vertically. These layers are attached by their edges to the vertebrae; they gradually de- crease m number from the circumference towards the- centre and the mterstices between- them are filled by the soft pulpy tissue The central portion is composed almost entirely of this pulpy tissue • and It bulges when no longer under pressure. Practically it comes to' this ; the bodies of the vertebra,, in their motions upon each other revolve upon a baU of fluid tightly girt all round by bands o^ fibrous tissue. These motions are regulated by the articula processes.LIGAMENTS OP THE SPINE, 192 Dissect au intervertebral substance layer after layer in front, and you will find that the circumferential fibres extend obliquely between the vertebrae, crossing each other like the branches of the letter X. The thickness of the intervertebral cartilages is not the same in front and behind. It is this difference in their thickness, more than tbat in the bodies of the vertebra;, which produces the several curves of the spine. In the lumbar and cervical regions they are thicker in front; in the dorsal region behind.* Each joint between the articular processes has a cap- CapsiUar ^^^aT lio-ament and a synovial membrane. The surfaces Ligaments. o of the bones are crusted with cartilage. Though but little movement is permitted between Motionsj)f vertebree (the atlas and axis excepted), yet the e spine. ^,jj||gQ|.j^^g motion between them all is considerable. The spine can be bent forwards, backwards, or on either side; it also admits of slight rotation. In consequence of the elasticity of the intervertebral cartilages and the ligamenta subflava it returns spontaneously to its natural curve of rest like an elastic bow. Its mobility is greatest in the cervical region, on account of the thick- ness of the fibro-cartilages, the small size of the vertebrae, the oblique direction of their articulations, and, above all, the hori- zontal position and the shortness of their spines. In the dorsal * The structure of the interyertebral cartUages explains the weU-kno^ fact, that a man becomes shorter after standing for some hours; and that he regains his usual height after rest. The difference between the morning and evening stature amounts to more than half an inch. . ' It also explains the fact that a permanent lateral curvature of the spine may be produced (especially in the young) by ttie habitual practice of leaning to this or that side Experience proves that the cause of lateral curvature depends more frequently upon some alteration in the structure of the flbro-cartllages than upon the bones From an examination of the bodies of one hundred and thii-ty-four indmduals with crooked spines, it was concluded that in two-thirds the bones were perfectly healtliy, that the most frequent cause of curvature resided in the invertebral substances; these being, on the concave side of the curve, almost absorbed, and on the convex side pre- ternaturally developed. As might be expected in these cases, the muscles on tne convex side become lengthened, and degenerate in structure. — On this subject see Jlildebrandt's Anatomie, B. ii. s. 155.LIGAMENTS CONNECTING THE HEAD TO THE SPINE. 193 region there is very little mobility, on account of the vertical direction of the articular processes, and the manner in which the arches and the spines overlap each other. In the lumbar region, the spine again becomes more moveable, on account of the thick- ness of the intervertebral cartilages, and the horizontal direction of the spinous processes. Ligaments ^he occiput is connected to the atlas by an anterior SitTl(occipito-atlantoid) membrane which passes from the bone and foramen magnum to the front part of the atlas. The rertSa. thickest part of this is in the middle. A ^posterior (occipito-atlantoid) membrane extends in a similar manner from the posterior border of the foramen magnum to the arch of the atlas. It is perforated by the vertebral artery. Ligaments ^^^^^ ^^'^ important; and to see them, we between the ^^^^ expose the spinal canal by removing the arches bonSSthe ^PP^^ oexYic&l vertebrae, and the posterior axis. common Hgament, which is here very thick and strong. It descends from the basilar process of the occipital bone over the odontoid and transverse ligaments. Odontoid The odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 39) are two Hgamenl '^'^''^ ligaments which proceed from the sides of the odontoid process to the tubercles on the inner sides of the condyles of the occiput. Their use is to limit the rotation of the head. Articula- J^^ odontoid process of the axis forms a pivot upon tion be- which the head and atlas rotate. The most important aZrand' ^'^^^^""^ the trausverse (fig. 39). It passes behind the axis. the odontoid process, and is attached to the tubercles rp, - i"^^^ ^ide of the articular processes of the atlas, iiius It forms with the atlas a ring into which the odontoid process IS received. If this transverse ligament be divided we observe that tne odontoid process is crusted with cartilage in front and behind and provided ^vith two synovial membranes. ' Sottha f f ^ """^^ exception of the first and the t^on of the two last are articulated with the bodies of two vertebrae, and with the transverse processes. oLIGAMENTS OP THE RIBS. 194 Pig. 39. DIAGEAH OF THE ODONTOID AND TEANSYEKSE LIGAMENTS. The head of each rib presents two articular surfaces, correspondiag to the bodies of two vertebrse. There are two distinct articulations, each provided with a separate synovial membrane. The ligaments are : 1. An anterior, which connects the head of the rib with the vertebrae, and with the intervening fibro-cartilage: this, on account of the divergence of its fibres, is called, the " stellate " ligament. 2. An inter-articular, which proceeds from the head of the rib to the intervertebrah cartilage. The tubercle of the rib articulates with the transverse process. This articulation has a capsular and synovial membrane, and is secured by the following ligaments: —1. The ^posterior costo- transverse passes from the apex of the transverse process to the tubercle of the rib. 2. The middle costo-transverse connects the neck of the rib to the front surface of the transverse process. 3. The anterior costo-transverse ascends from the neck of the rib to the lower border of the transverse process above it. The head of the first rib articulates with a single vertebra. ^ The eleventh and twelfth ribs articulate each with a single vertebra, and are not connected to the transverse processes.195 LIGAMENTS OF THE LOWEE JAW. o 2 The cartilages of all the true ribs are received into Connection t i j. -j.- .i ■ ■, n , between the Slight concavities On the Side of the sternum. In young cartilages of subjects WO find that the cartilages of the six lower true the nbs and m , ,. . , ° the sternum. ^'iDs have distmct articulations provided with synovial membranes. They are secured in front and behind by strong ligamentous fibres, which proceed from the cartilages and radiate upon the sternum, crossing those of the opposite side. The costal cartilages from the sixth to the tenth are connected by ligamentous fibres. Articula- The condyle of the lower jaw articulates with the Werjaw! g^^^^id cavity of the temporal bone. The joint is provided with an interarticular fibro-cartilage, and with external and internal lateral ligaments (fig. 40). Pig. 40. Section through the glenoid cavity Inter-articular fibro-cartilage J^^5—^ Internal lateral ligament TEANSY^BSE SECTION TO SHOW THE LIGAMENTS AND THE FIBEO-CAETIlAOr n- The cxtermd lateral ligarmnt extends from the tul.ercle of theLIGAMENTS OF THE LOWER JAW. 196 zygoma downwards and backwards to the tubercle of the condyle of the jaw. The internal lateral ligament extends from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the border of the dental foramen. This " so-called " ligament cannot in any way contribute to the strength of the joint: the articulation of one side performs the oflS.ce of internal lateral ligament to the other. The interarticidarfibro-cartilage is of an oval form, and thicker at the margin than at the centre. It is connected on the outer side to the external lateral ligament, and on the inner side some of the fibres of the external pterygoid are inserted into it. There are two synovial membranes for the joint. The larger and looser of the two is situated between the glenoid cavity and the fibro-cartilage. The other is interposed between the fibro- cartilage and the condyle of the jaw. They sometimes communi- cate through a small aperture in the centre of the fibro-cartilage. The form of the articulation of the lower jaw" admits of motion —upwards and downwards, forwards and backwards, and from side to side. A combination of these motions takes place in mastica- tion : during this act the condyles of the jaw describe an oblique rotatory movement upon the glenoid cavity. We see what pur- poses are served by a piece of fibro-cartilage in this curious joint: it follows the condyle, and adapts a convenient socket for all its movements: more than this, being elastic, it breaks shocks; for shocks here would be almost fatal, considering what a thin plate the glenoid cavity is, and that just above it is the brain.197 TflE DISSECTION OF THE ARM. The arm being placed at a right angle with the body, make three incisions through the skin ; the first, along the sternum ; the second, along the clavicle ; the third, along the front border of the axilla. The skin should be carefully separated from the subjacent layer of adipose tissue (called the superficial fascia). In doing so, unless the subject be very muscular you will scarcely notice the thin pale fibres .of the broad cutaneous muscle of the neck, (" platysma myoides " p. 1) which arises in this tissue. Cutaneous ^^^^rous nerves run through the subcutaneous tissue nerves. skm and the mammary gland. They are derived from various sources : some, branches of the superficial cervical plexus, descend over the clavicle : others, branches of the intercostal nerves, come through the intercostal spaces close to the sternum, with a small artery; a third series, also branches of the intercostal nerves, come out on the side of the chest, and run forwards over the outer border of the pectoralis major. The sttpra-clavicidar nerves which descend over the clavicle are subdivided, according to their direction, into sternal, clavicular and acromial branches (diagram, p. 3). The sternal cross the inner end of the clavicle, to supply the skin over the upper part of the sternum. The clavicular pass over the middle of the clavicle and supply the integument over the front of the chest and the maramary gland. The acromial branches cross over the outer end stoulder ' ''''''''''' ^^^-^^^^ of the Near the sternum you find the anterior cutaneous branches of the ^ntercostal nerves. After traversing the pectoralis u^ZX198 PECTORAL KEGION. nerve sends a filament to the skin over the sternum, and a larger one which supplies the skin over the pectoral muscle. Branches of the internal mammary artery, for the supply of the mammary gland, accompany these nerves. During lactation they increase in size, ramifying tortuously over the surface of the gland. I have seen them nearly as large as the radial at the wrist. They would require a ligature in removal of the breast. The lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves come out between the digitations of the serratus magnus on the side of the chest. They will be more fully described presently. Now remove the superficial fascia with the mammary gland from the pectoralis major, by dissecting parallel to the course of its fibres. When the muecle has been fully exposed, observe its shape, the coiu-se of its fibres, their origin, and insertion. The pectoralis major is the great muscle on the front Pectoralia ^j^g ^^^^^^ j^. arises from the sternal half of the major. t r ±n clavicle, from the front of the sternum, and from the cartilages of all the true ribs except the first and last. The fibres converge towards the arm, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humeTus. Their arrangement, as well as the structure of their tendon, is peculiar. The lower fibres which form the boundary of the axilla are folded beneath the rest, and terminate upon the upper part of the tendon, i. e. nearer to the shoulder joint; whereas the upper fibres descend in front of the lower, and terminate upon the lower part of the tendon. Consequently the upper and lower fibres of the muscle cross each other previously to their insertion. Now what is the object of this arrangement? It enables all the fibres to act simultaneously when the arm is extended. The upper part of the tendon sends off an aponeurosis, which straps down the long head of the biceps, and is attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus. The lower part is intimately connected with the fascia of the upper arm, and the tendon of the deltoid. The chief action of the pectoralis major is to draw the humerusrECTOEAL REGION. 199 o 4 towards the chest: as in placing the hand on the opposite shoulder, or in pulling an object towards the body. When the arm is raised and made the fixed point, the muscle assists in raising the trunk, as in climbing. Between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, the great muscle of the shoulder, there is an interval varying in extent in different subjects, but always more marked towards the clavicle. It contains a small artery — the tlioracica-humeraria — and the cephalic vein, which ascends along the outer side of the arm, and empties itself into the axillary vein. This interval is the proper place to feel for the coracoid process. In doubtful injuries about the shoulder this point of bone is a good landmark in helping us to come to our diagnosis. The pectoralis major is supplied with nerves by the anterior thoracic branches of the brachial plexus; with blood by the long and short thoracic branches of the axillary artery. Anatomy of I^eflect from the clavicle the clavicular portion of the infra- the pectoralis major. Beneath the portion so reflected reS^n'!^'^ P^^^ pectoralis minor will be exposed. Now between the upper border of this muscle and the clavicle there is an important space, in which you must dissect out and examine the relative position of the following objects: — a. A strong ligamentous expansion, called the costo-coracoid fascia, which extends from the cartilage of the first rib to the clavicle. b. The axillary vein, artery, and plexus of nerves. c. The subclavius muscle enclosed in its fibrous sheath. d. A short arterial trunk, (the thoracic axis,) which divides into several radiating branches. e. The termination of the cephalic vein in the axillary. /. Two or three nerves, (the anterior thoracic,) which descend from the axillary plexus beneath the clavicle, cross in front of the axillary vessels, and subdivide to supply the pectoral muscles. Costo-cora- • extends from the cartilage of the first coid fascia. coracoid process; between these points it is attached to the clavicle, and forms a complete invest-PECTORAL REGION. 200 Thoracic axis. ment for the subclaviiis muscle. It presents a crescent-shaped edge which arches over, and protects the axillary vessels and nerves: from this edge is prolonged a fascia which accompanies the vessels into the axilla, enclosing them in a kind of sheath. This is the first branch of the axillary artery. It comes off above the pectoralis minor and soon divides into three branches—the superior or short thoracic, the thoracica humeraria, and the thoracica acromialis (p. 208). The ewperior or short thoracic, runs between the pectoralis major and minor, supplying ramifications to both. The thoracica humeraruc descends with the cephalic vein, in the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid, and ramifies in both. The thoracica acromialis passes over the 'coracoid process to the under surface of the deltoid, which it supplies, and communicates with the circumflex branches of the axillary artery. All these arteries are accompanied by veins, which most frequently empty themselves into the cephalic, but occasionally into the axillary vein itself. The cephalic vein is one of the principal cutaneous Ceplialic ygi^g of the arms. Commencing on the back of the Tern. ° thumb and forefinger, it runs up the radial side of the fore-arm over the front of the elbow-joint; thence ascending along the outer edge of the biceps muscle, it runs up the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid to reach the axillary vein.* In the space now before us are the great vessels Stion'ofthe and nerves of the axilla in the first part of their axillary course. They lie at a great depth from the surface, lervi'''"^ They are surrounded by a sheath of fascia, which descends with them beneath the clavicle, and are situated with regard to each other in the following manner: — The axillary vein lies in front of the artery, and rather to its sternal side. The axillary plexus of nerves is situated above the artery and on a posterior plane. ' The plexus consists of two or sometimes three large cords, which result from the union of the * The cephalic vein sometimes rnns over the clavicle to join the external jiigiilar; or there may be a communication over the clavicle between these veins.PECTORAL REGION. 201 anterior branches of the last four cervical nerves and the first dorsal (p. 206). Anterior These nerves come from the axillary plexus to supply thoracic the pectoral muscles. There are generally two, one for each pectoral muscle: and they enter the muscles with their respective arteries. If you were to trace these nerves to their source, you would find tbat they proceed from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. However, the chief point of interest about them is, that they cross over the axillary artery in the first part of its course, where you might be called upon to tie it. Therefore, you would be careful not to include them in the ligature. Subelaviiis. ^^^^ muscle lies beneath the clavicle enclosed in a strong sheath, which you should open in order to expose it. It arises from the cartilage of the first rib by a round tendon, and is inserted into a groove on the under surface of the clavicle. Its nerve comes from the brachial plexus. Its action is to depress the clavicle, and prevent its too great elevation. Difficiiltyof . ^'^^ relations of the axillary artery tying the the first part of its course, some idea may be formed oTkf^. difficulty of passing a ligature round it in this illarya. Situation. In addition to its great depth from the surface, varieties sometimes occur in the position of the nerves and veins, which would render the operation still more embarrassing. For instance, the anterior thoracic nerves may be moi-e numerous than usual, and form by their mutual communi- cations a kind of plexus round the artery. I have often seen a large nerve crossing obliquely over the artery immediately below the clavicle, to form one of the roots of the median nerve. Ihe cephahc vein may ascend higher than usual, and open into the subclavian; and, as it receives large veins correspondino- to of the arterr^^'' concourse of veins would be met with in front Jntftt 1" ""T *° ''''' ' deep-seated ^^y^t '''^'^-'^^^^'^''^ — over the artery to join the202 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Eeflect the skin from the axilla and the side of the Sebaceous ^-^^^^^ taking care not to remove with it the subjacent ^' fascia. In close contact with the skin, near the roots of the hair in the axilla, are numerous sebaceous glands. They are of a reddish-brown colour, and rather larger than a pin's head. This tough membrane lies immediately beneath the ^^"^ skin of the axilla, and is nothing more than a continu- ation of the general investment of the muscles. It closes in and ^orms the floor of the cavity of the axilla. Now what are its connections ? Externally it is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, and is con- tinuous with the fascia of the arm; internally, it is prolonged on the side of the chest, over the serratus magnus muscle: m front and behind, it divides so as to enclose between'its layers the muscles ^hich form the boundaries of the axilla. Thus the anterior layer encloses the two pectoral muscles, and is connected with the cora- coid process, the costo-coracoid ligament, and the clavicle: the posterior layer encloses the latissimus dorsi, and passes backwards to the spine. ,, . a. A subcutaneous artery, sometimes of considerable size, often runs in the substance of the axillary fascia. It generally arises from the brachial, or from the lower part of the axillary, and runs across the floor of the axilla towards the lower edge of the pectorahs maior. So far as I know, it has not been hitherto named; but it is worth remembering, because it would occasion much hemorrhage if wounded in opening an abscess. The next thing to be done is to remove this axillary fascia and to display the boundaries-and contents of theaxilla. The dissechon of this cavity is difficult. You must proceed cautiously. Bear m mind that the trunk blood-vessels and nerves run through the upper V^^ of the axilla; that the long thoracic artery runs along the anterior border, and the subscapular artery along the posterior. Commence working, therefore, in the middle: break down mth the handle of theDISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 203 scalpel the loose connective tissue, fat, and absorbent glands, wbich occupy the cavity. You will soon discover some cutaneous nerves coming out between the ribs. These nerves are the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves; they perforate the intercostal spaces between the digitations of the serratus magnus, midway be- tween the sternum and the spine, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior turn over the pectoralis major, to supply the skin on the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The posterior pass backwards over the latissimus dorsi, and are distributed to the skin covering this muscle and the scapula. Intercosto- "^^^ perforating branch of the second intercostal nerve humeral requires a special description; it is larger than the others, and is called the " intercosto-humeral nerve," because it supplies the integuments of the arm. It comes through the second intercostal space, traverses the upper part of the axilla, where it receives a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and terminates in filaments, which are distri- buted to the skin on the inner side of the arm, as low as the in- ternal condyle. The perforating branch of the third intercostal is also an " intercosto-humeral" nerve. It receives a branch from the second, and runs a similar course. The distribution of these nerves may account for the pain down the arm which is sometimes experienced in pleurisy. Boundaries ^^^^^^ described as a conical space, of of the axilla, which the summit is beneath the clavicle, and the base between the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. Now what are its boundaries ? On the inner side, it is bounded • by the ribs, covered by the serratus magnus ; on the outer side by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles; m front by the pectoralis major, behind by the latissimus dorsi' teres major, and subscapularis. Its anteribr and posterior boun- daries converge from the chest, so that the axilla becomes narrower towards the arm. With a full view of the axilla before you, think what senous consequences may follow suppuration here • the matter may burrow under the pectoral muscles; or under the scapula- or It may run up beneath the clavicle and point in the neck '204 DISSECTION or THE AXILLA. ^y^^ The axillary glands form a continuous chain beneath absorbent the clavicle, with the cervical glands. They are from glands. 15 to 20 in number, of a reddish brown colour and variable size. Most of them lie near some large blood-vessel; others are imbedded in the loose tissue of the axilla; sometimes one or two small ones are observed along the lower border of the pectoralis major. They are supplied with blood by a branch {thoracica alaris) of the axillary artery, and by branches from the thoracic and infrascapular arteries. These glands receive the absorbents from the arm, from the front and side of the chest, and from the outer half of the mammary gland. You should'now reflect the pectoralis major from its insertion, to expose the pectoralis minor and the ramifications of the short and long thoracic arteries. Preserve the arteries as much as possible in connection with the main trunks. This muscle arises from the third, fotu-th, and fifth Pectoralis j.-|^g_ rjj^g fibres riin upwards and outwards, and con- verge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the anterior surface of the coracoid process. The tendon is connected to that of the coraco-brachialis by a strong fascia which forms a protection for the siibjacent axillary vessels and nerves. The action of this muscle is to draw the scapula downwards and forwards. ^ This muscle forms the posterior margin of the axilla. Latissimus ^^^^^g fj-o^i the crest of the ilium, from the spines of all the lumbar, and six lower dorsal vertebrae, and by digitations from the three lower ribs. It is inserted by a broad flat tendon (which runs behind the axillary vessels and nerves), into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle lies behind the latissimus dorsi, closely Teres major, ^.^j^^e^ted with it, and assists in forming the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the lower angle of the back of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad flat tendon mto the posterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. A bursa or sac containing water to prevent friction intervenes between tins tendon and that of the latissimus dorsi. The action of this andDISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 205 the preceding muscle is to draw the humerus inwards and back- wards. Subsea u '^^^^ muscle occupies the internal surface of the scapula, li^is!'^''^''' It arises from the internal surface of the scapula, and terminates in a strong tendon, which passes under the axillary vessels and nerves, over the inner side of the shoulder- joint, and is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. Serratus "^^^^ muscle covers the side of the chest like a girth, magmis. It arises by digitations from the eight upper ribs. Its fibres converge and are inserted into the posterior border of the scapula. Its action is to draw the scapula forwards: but of this more hereafter. It is supplied by the following nerve which you see on its outer surface. External "^^^^ supplies the serratus magnus only. It respiratory comes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; and sS'c.BeU). ^"^^ behind the axillary vessels to the outer surface of the serratus magnus: each digitation receiving a separate filament.* Having surveyed the muscles which bound the axUla, your next study must be the axUlary artery, and its branches. But before you begin, notice well the position and direction of the coraco- brachialis muscle; and, if your first essay, reflect the subclavius and pectoralis minor from their insertions. Course and ^'''^ ^'"^^'^y' ^ Continuation of the subclavian, takes the tffSar^ ^^^^ of "axillary " at the outer border of the first rib. axtely. ^""^ ^^^^ downwards and outwards, through the upper part of the axilla, beneath the two pectoral muscles, and along the mner edge of the coraco-brachialis, as far as the lower border of the tendon of the teres major, where it takes the name of bracUcd. In its course downwards, the artery lies successively upon the first intercostal space, the second dictation of the serratus magnus, the loose tissue of the axilla, the tendon of the » It may be asked why this nerve is caUed the " external respii-atorv ? " It woDISSECTION OP THE AXILLA. 206 subscapularis; lastly, upon the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The axillary vein in the first part of its course lies in front of the artery, and close to its sternal side: in the lower two-thirds of its course the vein still lies to the sternal side of the artery, but is separated from it by some of the nerves of the brachial plexus. The axillary plexus, consisting of two or three large nerves, is at first situated above the artery, and on a posterior plane; but the Pig. 41 1 Dorsal. DIAGRAM OF THE BEACHUI. PLEXUS OF NERVES, ANB THEIR RELATION TO THE AXUXART ARTERT. 1. tOnar. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Lesser cutaneous (n. of Wrisberg.) 4. Musculo-spiral. 6. N. to latissimus dorsL 6. N. to teres major; 7. N. to subscapularis. 8, 9. Anterior thoracic n. to pectoral muscles. 10. N. to serratus magnus. 11. Median. 12. Circumflex. 13. External cutaneous. 14. Supra-scapular. 16. Posterior scapular. nerves, as they descend, come into closer connection with it, and subdivide in such a way, that, upon the tendon of the subscapularis the artery is surrounded on all sides by nerves.DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 207 , This plexus is formed by the anterior branches of the Axillary or , . ^ n brachial lOur lower cervical and first dorsal nerves. The plexus is plexus of broad at the lower part of the neck, between the scaleni muscles; but it gradually contracts as it descends beneath the clavicle into the axilla. The arrangement of the nerves in the formation of the plexus is generally as follows:—the fifth and sixth cervical unite to form a single cord: the eighth cervical and the first dorsal unite to form another; the seventh cervical runs for some distance alone, and then divides so as to unite with the two other cords. Thus, the plexus consists at the lower border of the first rib of only two large nerves; the one being situated behind the axillary artery, the other above it, and on its acromial side. Now these two large nerves, by theii- subdivisions, form a plexus round the axillary artery, where it lies upon the tendon of the subscapularis, and give off the nerves to the arm in the following manner:— Arrange- The median nerve arises by two roots, which lie in meut of front of the artery, and converge like the branches of the round the better V. Uu the outer side of the artery is the external aSj?" root of the median, and the external cutaneous nerve; on its inner side is the internal root of the median, the ulnar, and the internal cutaneous: heUnd the artery is the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral or radial nerve.* The axillary plexus gives off some branches above the clavicle, namely, the supra-scapular, posterior scapular, anterior thoracic' long thoracic, &c. : these were dissected with the neck (p. 47)! Below the clavicle, it gives off the following: — 1. The external cutaneous. 6. The lesser internal cutaneous. 2. The median. 6. The musculo-spiral. 3. The uhiar. 7_ The circumflex. 4. The internal cutaneous. 8. The sub-scapular. * From this arrangement there are occasional deviations. Pop instance, the two roots of the mecban may embrace the artery higher up in its course, or lower doZ than usual: or both its roots may lie behind the artery. ' A deyiation, one which I observed once only in 300 ams, may occur in which all the nerves are situated above the axtery, and on its acromial^J^/.r '^'^^]''^ entirely free in the whole of its course. ^'''^^ ^^^"S208 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. Branclies of '^^^^ number and origin of these branches often vary, the axiUary but their general course is in most cases similar; and artery. ^-^^^ usually arise in the order in which they are here described: — The thoradc axis arises above the pectoralis minor, and divides into branches which have been already noticed (p. 200). The inferior or long thoracic artery, sometimes called the external mammary, runs along the lower border of the pectoralis minor. It supplies the mammary gland, the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles, and maintains a free anastomosis with the short thoracic, internal mammary, and intercostal arteries. The sub-scapular is the largest branch of the axillary; it arises opposite the lower border of the subscapularis, and soon divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. PLAJT OF THE BEANCHBS OF THE AXILXABY ABTEEY. 1. Thoracic axis, giving off 6. Sub-scapular. 2. Short thoracic. 7. Dorsalis scapulm. 3. Thoracica aeromiaUs. 8. Anterior circumflex. i. Thoracica humeraria. 9. Posterior circumflex. 6. Long thoracic. a. The anterior branch is the continued trunk; it runs along the ante^-ior edge of the subscapularis towards the lower angle of the scapula. Its numerous branches supply the subscapularis, latis- simus dorsi, and serratus magnus, and anastomose with the mter- costal and thoracic arteries, as well as the posterior scapular (a branch of the subclavian)..DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 209 b. The postenor branch (dorsalis scapulse), runs to the back of the scapula, through a triangular space bounded by the long head of the triceps, the teres major and subscapularis (5, fig. 43). On the back of the scapula, it divides into branches, which ramify close to the bone, supplying the infra-spinatus and* teres minor. But its largest branch inosculates freely with the supra-scapular artery (from the subclavian). This is the principal channel through which the coUateral circulation is carried on after ligature of the subclavian in the third part of its course. (See diagram, p. 45.) The subscapular vein empties itself into the axillary vein. Subscapxilar ^^^^ "'^'"''^^ ''^"^'^ "subscapular " are found on the. nerves. surface of the subscapularis. They come from the posterior part of the axillary plexus, and supply re- spectively the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapularis. The nerve for the latissimus dorsi (called the long subscapular), runs with the anterior branch of the subscapular artery. The nerve for the teres major is either a branch of the preced- ing, or comes distinct from the plexus. It lies nearer to the humerus than the long subscapular. The proper nerve of the subscapularis arises from the plexus higher than the others. Circumflex ^^^""^ circumflex arteries—an anterior and SSorand ^° ^^^^^^ from the manner in which they JosSr eiicircle the neck of the humerus. The posterior cir- cumfiex artery is as large as the subscapular, close to • which It IS given off; or both may arise by a common trunk from the axi lary. It passes backwards through a quadrilateral space, bounded above by the subscapularis, below by the teres major, ex- ternally by the neck of the humerus, and internally by the long the nel f l^T '^^^ ^'^'^ tL back of Z deltoid! " '^''"'"'^^ ^^^'f-^ of Besides the deltoid, the posterior circumflex artery suppHes the ng head of the triceps the head of the humerus, and'the'shou dt S th ^^^l^bove with the acromial thoracic artery below -th the ascending branch of the superior profunda (a brlicl I"210 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. the brachial), and in front with the anterior circumflex artery. If you cannot find the posterior circumflex artery in its normal situa- tion, look for it (as a branch of the brachial) below the tendon of the teres major. Fig. 43. DIAGBAM OF THE OBIGINS OF THE TRICEPS. 1. Subscapularis. 2. Teres major. 3. LoBg liead of triceps. 4. Square space for circimflex a. and n. 5. Triangi-dar space for dorsalis scapulse a. 6. Space for musculo-spiral n., and supe- rior profunda a. The posterior circumflex artery is accompanied by the Circumflex circumflex nerve which suppUes the deltoid. This large nerve comes from the posterior part of the brachial plexus, in common with the musculo-spiral, and after sending a bran h to the teres minor, terminates in the under -rface of the ddtdd. The nerve supplies, also, the skin covering the deltoid by bran hes, which turn round the posterior border of the muscle. T^anlior ciroumfie. artery, much smaller than the Posterioi runs in front of the neck of the humerus, above tl^^ t^^don of t^^^^ latissimus dorsi. It passes directly outwards ^eneatt^ ^he cm brachialis and short head of the biceps, close to the bone, andDISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 211 p 2 terminates in the under surface of the deltoid, where it inosculates vnih the posterior circumflex artery. The most remarkable branch of the anterior circumflex artery is one which runs with the long tendon of the biceps up the groove of the humerus. It is called, on that account, the bicipital artery; it supplies the shoulder-joint and the neck of the humerus. The alar- thoracic artery is a small branch, variable in its origin. It may come from the axillary, or the subscapular, or the inferior thoracic. It supplies the axillary glands. AxiUary oxUlary vein is formed by the junction of the vein.' 'y^'Jiog comites of the brachial artery, near the lower border of the subscapularis. It receives the subscapular and the other veins corresponding to the branches of the axillary artery, with the exception of the circumflex, which usually join, either the subscapular, or one of the vense comites. The axillary also receives the cephalic, and sometimes the basilic vein. Dissection of iucisiou be continued down the inner side of tbe^upper the arm as low as two inches below the elbow. Eeflect the. skin, and trace the following cutaneous nerves : Cutaneous filaments of the intercosto-humeral nerves run nerves. dowu the inner and posterior part of the arm to the olecranon. The branches of the internal cutaneous nerve perforate the fascia about the middle of the inner side of the arm, and subdivide luto filaments which supply the anterior and posterior surface of the fore-arm. The lesser internal cutaneous, (nerve of Wrisherg,) perforates the fascia about the lower third of the arm, and supplies the skin over the mternal condyle and olecranon. The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve sometimes wanting, and always small, comes through the fascia near the middle of the inner side of the arm. The nerves which perforate the fascia near the middle of the outer part of the arm, are the external cutaneous brccnchcs of the mu.culo-sp^raL They are accompanied by a small blnch torn212 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER AKM. the superior profunda artery. They diA^de into filaments, one of which will be traced down the outer and back part of the forearm to the wrist. On the outer side of the tendon of the biceps, you find that the external cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia, and divides into many branches, which supply the skin of the outer part of the forearm. The next object of attention should be the disposition SydS'^r of the veins in front of the elbow, where venesection is front of the usually performed. In cleaning these veins, take care not to divide the branches of the internal and external cutaneous nerves which pass both above and below them. I'ig. 44. Basilic v. Median basilic V. Deep median v. Cephalic v. Median cephalic v. Median v. StIPERFICIAI. TEINS AND NERVES AT THE BEND OF THE LEFT ELBO^T. The following is the ordinary arrangement of the superficial veins at the bend of the elbow: - On the outer side is the radial,DISSECTION OF THE UPPER AKM. 213 P 3 on the inner side is the ulnar vein; in the centre is the median, which divides into two branches; the external of which uniting with the radial to form the cephalic vein, is called the median cephalic; the internal, uniting with the ulnar to form the basilic, is named the median basilic. Near its bifurcation, the median vein communicates by a branch (mediana profunda) with the deep veins which accompany the arteries of the forearm. Trace the cephalic vein up the arm. It runs along the outer border of the biceps to the groove between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, where it terminates in the axillary. The basilic vein ascends along the inner side of the arm with the internal cutaneous nerve. Near the upper third of the arm, it per- forates the fascia, and empties itself either into the internal vena comes of the brachial artery or into the axillary vein. Eektion of nerves P^^^^^P^^ branches of the nerves pass beneath and veins at the the veins; but many small filaments cross in front which are exposed to injury in venesection. EeLation of median Since the median basilic vein is larger than the SSalSi;. f ^di-\««Pl^-lic, and, on account of the strong lascia beneath, more easily compressible, it is usually chosen for venesection: its position, therefore, in reference to the brachial artery, becomes very important. The vein is only separated from the artery by the fascia derived from the tendon of the biceps. This fascia is in some subjects remarkably thin, or even absent. It sometimes happens that the artery lies above the fascia, m absolute contact with the vein. In choosing, therefore this vein for venesection, there is a risk of wounding the toy' hence the practical rule, to bleed either from the median cephalic' f or from the median basilic above the situation where it crosses the brachial artery. af ^Tl V ^ "'^^y^^' ^neighbourhood • of the basihc vem, we find one or two small absorbent glands ' Others may lie higher up along the inner side of the arm. I h.t seen a gland at the bend of the elbow • but never ii,- These little glands are the first which bee meTend^^^^ after an injury to the hand. ""^'^ ^''^'''S^'^214 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. The fascia which invests the muscles of the upper arm MuscivlM ig a continuation of the fascia from the trunk and the axilla. This membrane varies in density : thus it is thin over the biceps, stronger on the inner side of the arm to protect the brachial vessels and nerves, and strongest over the triceps. What are its connections ? At the upper part of the arm it is con- nected with the coracoid process and the clavicle; it is strengthened at the axilla by an expansion from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi : posteriorly it is attached to the spme of the scapula. The fascia surrounds the brachial vessels with a sheath, and furnishes partitions which sepai-ate the muscles from each other. Of these partitions the most marked are the external and internal intermuscular septa, which divide the muscles on the anterior from that on the posterior surface of the upper arm. These septa are attached to the projecting ridges of the humerus and to the condyles. The internal septum, the most promment of the two, beo-ins at the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and separates the triceps extensor from the brachialis anticus. The external septum commences from the insertion of the deltoid, and separates the brachiaHs anticus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior in front, from the triceps behind. At the lower paxt of the upper arm the fascia is remarkably strong, especially where it covers the brachialis anticus and the brachial vessels, and is continued over the muscles on the inner side of the forearm. At the -back of the elbow, the fascia is attached to the tendon of the triceps and the olecranon. Now remove the fascia in order to study the muscles on the front of the arm; namely, the biceps, the coraco-brachiahs, and the brachialis anticus. . , The biceps, as its name imphes, arises by two heads— a long and a short. The short or internal Jiead arises from the point of the coracoid process of the scapula, by a flat tendon which is common to a slender muscle on it. mner side called the coraco-brachialis. ^The long head of the biceps arises from the upper border of the glenoid cavity of the scapula by a long flat tendon, which traverses the shoulder-joint and passes over215 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. P 4 the head of the humeruSj and down the groove between the two tuberosities. The tendon is retained in the groove by a fibrous bridge derived from the capsule of the joint, and connected with the tendon of the pectoralis major. Divide this bridge and you will see that the synovial membrane of the joint is reflected round the tendon, and accompanies it for about two inches down the groove, thus forming a sort of synovial fold. The object of this is to facilitate the play of the tendon, and to carry little arteries (from the anterior circumflex) for its supply. The two heads imite about the middle of the arm, and form a single muscle, which ter- minates in a strong flat tendon of considerable length; this sinks deep into the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and, after a slight twist upon itself, is inserted into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. The anterior part of the tubercle, over Avhich the tendon plays, is crusted with cartilage, and a bursa mucosa intervenes to prevent friction. The most internal fibres of the muscle are inserted into a strong broad aponeurosis, which is prolonged from the inner border of the tendon to the fascia on the inner side of the forearm. This aponeurosis, called the semi- lunar fascia of the biceps, protects the brachial vessels and the median nerve at the bend of the elbow. The action of the biceps is twofold. 1. It is a flexor of the forearm: 2. It is a supinator of the forearm, 'in consequence of its insertion into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. Its power of supination is greatest when the arm is bent, because its tendon forms a right angle with the radius. Why does the lono- tendon pass through the shoulder-joint ? It acts like a strap, and confines the head of the humerus in its proper centre of motion. But for this tendon, the head of the bone, when the deltoid acts would be pulled directly upwards and strike against the under surface of the acromion. When the tendon is ruptm-ed or dislo- cated from its gi-oove a man can move his arm backwards and lorwards, but he cannot raise the smallest weight. The bicens is suppbed with blood by an artery (from the brachial), which runs mto the middle of it, and then divides into ascending id descend mg branches. Its nerve comes from the external cutaneous216 DISSECTION or THE UPPER AKM. This thin muscle is situated at the upper part of the ^'"''\^?-r arm, and runs parallel to the inner border of the short brachials. ^^^^ ^.^^^^^ ^^^.^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ point of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the biceps, and from a fibrous septum which lies between them- The muscle terminates in a flat tendon, which is mserted mto the inner side of the middle of the humerus, between the brachiahs anticus and the inner head of the triceps. Its action is to draw the humerus forwards and inwards, e. g. in bringing the gun up to the shoulder. , , 4. 1 Concerning the coraco-brachialis remember, 1. that the external cutaneous nerve runs through it; 2. that its inner fleshy border is the guide to the axillary artery in the last part of its course; 3. that the brachial artery lies upon its flat tendon of insertion, and can here be effectually compressed by the finger or the tourmquet^ The coraco-brachialis and biceps are covered at their upper part by the deltoid and pectoralis major. The head of the humerus rolls beneath the coraco-brachialis and short origm of the biceps ; and a large 6ursa is interposed between these muscles and the tendon of the subscapularis, which covers the head of the bone This muscle is situated close to the lower half oi the BracldaHs j^^^ierus, and is partially concealed by the biceps. Between the two muscles you will find the external cutaneous nerve, which supplies them both. It arises from the humerus by a fleshy digitation ob either side the tendon of the deltoid, from the front sm-face 0f 1- W below this point, and from the intermuscular -P^^ J^.^ f becoming thicker and broader as it descends, covers the fion of the caWe of the elbow-joint, and terminates in a tendon which is jrL/in a pointed manner into the coronoid process of the ulna. Tfq artion is to bend the forearm. , j C Z^ine the course and relations of the brach.al vessels and nerves. The brachial artery, a continuation of the axiUaiy, Sr^f takes its name at the lower border of the teres major, the brachial j ^.^^^^ ^^^^^ ^he inner side of the arm, along the tniiei artery.DISSECTION OF THE UrPER ARM. 217 hordes of the coraco-brachialis and biceps, to the front of the elbow, where it divides near the coronoid process of the ulna into the radial and ulnar arteries. Thus its direction corresponds with a line drawn from the anterior part of the axilla to the central point between the condyles of the humerus. In the upper part of its course it lies on the triceps (from which it is separated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery): in the.middle, it Hes on the tendon of the coraco-bra- chiahs; in the lower pai-t, on the brachialis anticus. The artery is accompanied by two veins (vence comites), and the median nerve, all of which are invested in a common sheath of fascia. The median nerve crosses obliquely in front of the artery lying, near the axilla, on its outer side, near the elbow on its inner side. The ulnar nerve runs along the inner side of the artery, and is separated from it below by the intermuscular septum. Superficial to the artery, we find the internal cutaneous nerve and the basiUc vein. _ Observe particularly that the artery is more or less overlapped, m the first part of its course by the coraco-brachialis,-lower down by the fleshy belly of the biceps ; these muscles in their respective situations are the best guides to the vessel. _ About the middle of the humerus, the artery lies for nearly two inches on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, and is so close to the bone hat it can here be effectually compressed; here too it is crossed by the median nerve. At the bend of the elbow the artery is protected by the semi- lunar fascia from the tendon of the biceps. It enters a triangular space, bounded by the pronator radii teres internally, and b^ the supinator i-adu longus externally. It sinks into this space, with he tendon of the biceps to its outer side, and the median nerve to its inner side; all three rest upon the brachialis anticus muse Opposite the coronoid process of the ulna it divides into fh. . i and ulnar arteries. ^^^lal Two veins, of which the internal is the larger, lie in close con-218 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER AUM. tact with the brachial artery, and communicate at frequent intervals hy transverse branches. . Fig. 45. Superior profunda . .' Interosseous recurrent Radial recurrent, Posterior Interosseous Inferior profunda. Auastotnoiica magna. Anterior ulnar recurrent. Posterior ulnar recurrent. Common interosseous. Anterior interosseous. OF THE BBA^CHES OIT THE BBACKIAX A« A.>n, THE AKTEBIA. INOSCULATIONS ABOUT THE EIGHT EXBO^'-JOmT. , , The brachial artery gives off only three branches of ?ath°l importance; all arise from its inner side; hey are called the profunda superior, the profunda mfeiior, ana the anastomotica magna. ;,nTnp- Tl\.e profunda superior arises from the brachial aatery, immeDISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 219 diately below the tendon of the teres major.* It winds round the posterior pai-t of the humerus, between the outer and inner heads of the triceps, with the musculo-spiral nerve (6, p. 210), and a little above the middle of the arm divides into two branches, which run for some distance on either side of the nerve. One of these runs in the substance of the triceps to the olecranon, and anastomoses with the ulnar and interosseous recm-rent arteries: the other branch accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve to the outer side of the arm, descends deep in the fissure between the brachialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and terminates in numerous ramifications, some of which pass in front of the external condyle, and others behind it, to inosculate with the radial and interosseous recurrent arteries. Before its division the superior profunda sends several branches to the triceps, some of which inosculate minutely with the circum- flex arteries. These would assist in establishing a collateral cir- culation if the brachial artery were tied above the origin of the profunda. The profunda inferior arises from the brachial, opposite to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or sometimes by a common trunk with the superior profunda. It runs with the ulnar nerve along the inner border of the triceps behind the internal condyle of the humerus, where it inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent artery. The inferior profunda gives branches to the triceps and brachi- alis anticus, some of which inosculate with the anastomotica magna. The medullary artery of the humerus usually arises from the profunda inferior. It pierces the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, runs obliquely downwards through the bone, and in the medullary canal divides into ascending and descending branches, which anas- tomose with the other nutrient vessels of the bone derived from the periosteum. The anastomotica magna arises from the inner side of the the* ZuT '"T ^'V'' Pl=^«e, look for it above the tendon of220 DISSECTION OP THE UPPER ARM. brachial, about two incbes above the elbow, runs tortuously inwards across the bracbialis anticus, and divides into branches, some of which pass in front of, others behind the internal condyle, anasto- mosing with the inferior profunda and the anterior ulnar recui-rent arteries. Numerous unnamed muscular branches arise from the outer side of the brachial artery; one of these, more constant than the rest, supplies the biceps; another runs transversely beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps, over the insertion of the deltoid, supplying this muscle and the bracbialis anticus. The two veins which accompany the brachial Ven^ eomites. ^^^^^^ continuations of the deep radial and ulnar veins. The infernal is usually the larger, since it generally receives the veins corresponding to the principal branches of the artery. In their com-se they are connected at intervals by transverse branches either in front of, or behind the artery. Near the sub- scapularis, the vena comes externa crosses obliquely over the trout of the axillary artery to join the v. c. interna, which then taJ^es the name of " axillary." Let us now trace the gi-eat nerves of the upper arm, which pro- ceed from the brachial plexus near the tendon of the subscapularis: namely, the median, external cutaneous, ulnai-, and musculo-spiral or radial. , The median nerve arises by two roots, whicH con- Mediannerre. ^^^^^ ^^^^^ axillary artery (p. 206). The external root is derived from a trunk in common with the external cutaneous nerve, the internal root from a trunk in common with the ulnar, and internal cutaneous nerve. In its course down the arm, the nerve is situated at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, between it and the coraco-brachialis muscle : about the mdddle of the arm the nerve crosses obliquely over the vessel, or perhaps beneath it, so that at the bend of the elbow it is found on the inner side of the artery, covered by the semilunaa- fascia from the biceps.* * I have obserred tlie followiBg varieiie. relating to the median nerve, and its course in regard to the artery: — . ,DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 221 The eventual distribution of the median nerve is to the two pronators and all the flexors of the forearm (except the flexor carpi ulnaris and half the flexor profundus digitorum), to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and to both sides of the thumb, fore, and middle fingers, and the radial side of the ring finger. External ^^^^ ^^^^^ (^^^^^ called musculo-CUtaneoUS, or per- cutaneous forans Casserii) arises by a common trunk with the external root of the median, on the outer side of the axillary artery. It perforates the coraco-brachialis, and then runs down between the biceps and the brachialis anticus. A little above the elbow-joint, between the tendon of the biceps and the supi- nator radii longus, the nerve becomes subcutaneous, and, passing under the median cephalic vein, divides into branches, for the supply of the integuments of the forearm. The external cutaneous nerve, in the upper part of its course, sends branches to the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps, and, as it descends between the biceps and brachialis _ a. The roots may he increased in number by one on either side of the ai-tery • or the internal root may be deficient. ' ^^'J^f t^.^^J^ ^ ^^"^ P°«iti°" regard to the arteiy; both may be situ- ated behind the vessel, or one behind, and the other in front of it c. The nerve, formed in the usual manner, may be joined lower down by a lai-ge branch from the external cutaneous; such a case presents a junction of two large nenres in front of the brachial ai-tery, in the middle of the arm. d. The nerve in many cases crosses under, instead of over the artery .. The nerve sometimes runs pai-allel and external to the arteiyor it may run paraUel to, and m front of the artery. ^ In one himdred arms the relative position of the nei-ve to the artei-y in its course downthearm.wasasfoUows:— ' tourse In 72, the nerve took the ordinaiy course. „ 20, the nerve crossed obliquely imder the artery. „ 6, the nerve ran paraUel and superficial to the artery. „ 3, the nerve ran paraUel and external to the artery. These varieties of the median nerve are of practical importance for this v.... whenever, in the operation of tying the brachial artery, we find Ltrfe out o Tts co.^ .cm the i,per part of the brac4l, ^^^Z:^:^222 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. anticus, it supplies both these muscles. Consequently if the external cutaneous nerve were divided in the axilla, the result would be inability to bend the forearm.* This nerve arises from the plexus in common with the internal cutaneous, and the inner root of the median. It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the coraco-bracTiialis. The nerve then diverges from the artery, perforates the internal intermuscular septum, and rvms with the inferior profunda artery, behind the internal condyle. The eventual distribution of the nerve is to the flexor carpi ulnaris, half the flexor profundus digitorum, all the interosseous muscles of the hand, both sides of the little finger, and the uhiar side of the ring finger, also'to the muscles of the ball of the little finger. Previous to the examination of the musculo-spiral nerve we should have some knowledge of the great muscle which occupies the whole of the posterior part of the humerus—viz. the triceps. This muscle has three distinct origins, named from extensor their position the external, internal, and middle or loTig cubiti. ^^^^ 210). The middle or long hesid arises by a flat tendon from the inferior border of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity. The external head arises from the humerus, immediately below the great tuberosity. The internal head arises from the humerus below the insertion of the teres major. The three heads of the muscle unite near the middle of the arm to form a single fleshy mass, which covers the posterior part of the elbow-joint, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the summit and sides of the olecranon. * In some instances tlie external cutaneous nerve descends on the inner side of the coraco-brachiaHs without perforating the muscle; in these cases it often sends a larger branch than usual to the median nerve. ^ -^f The trunk of the external cutaneous nerve may come from the median at any pomt between the axiUa and the middle of the arm. In some subject6 the nerve is absent aU its branches are then suppHed by the median, which is lai-ger than usual. anomaUes are easily explained by the fact of the two nerves having always a common origin.223 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Musculo- This, the largest of the brachial nerves, arises, in corn- spiral or mon with the circumflex, from the posterior part of the ra 1 nciTo. axillary plexus (p. 206). It descends at first behind the axillary artery, and then winds obliquely round the posterior part of the humerus, between the external and internal heads of the triceps, in company with the superior profunda branch of the bra- chial artery. About the lower third of the outer side of the arm, the nerve runs deeply imbedded between the brachialis anticus and the supinator radii longus. A little above the elbow-joint it divides into its two principal branches,—the radial, which accom- panies the radial artery along the forearm,—and the posterior interosseous, which perforates the supinator brevis, and supplies all the muscles on the back of the forearm. What is the distribution of this great nerve? In a word, it sup- ph'es all the extensors of the forearm, wrist, thumb, and fingers; and all the supinators except one, namely, the biceps (supplied by the external cutaneous). DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOEEAEM. Prolong the incision down to the wrist, reflect the skin, and trace the cutaneous nerves and veins (p. 212). On the radial side of the forearm are the superficial ^^es^"^^ radial veins, with filaments of the external cutaneous nerve. On the ulnar side are the superficial ulnar veins, with filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve. The ex- ternal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve runs along the outer and back part of the forearm. About the lower third of • the radial border of the forearm, the radial nerve becomes super- ficial, and turns over the radius to supply the back of the hand and fingers. Near the styloid process of the ulna, the superficial branch of the ulnar nerve perforates the fascia to reach the back of the hand. Cutaneous ^^'""^ ^"""^^ ''''^ ^^^""^^ Surface, veins. out of the way of pressure. Commencing at the extremity of the fingers, the veins run up between the224 DISSECTION or THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. knuckles and unite on the back of the hand in the shape of an arch, with its concavity upwards, from which the veins of the fore- arm arise. From the external side of the arch, near the metacarpal bone of the thumb, the superficial radial veins run up the outer and front part of the forearm to the bend of the elbow. From the internal side of the arch, near the metacarpal bone of the little finger, the superficial ulnar veins proceed along the inner and front side of the forearm to the elbow. Along the middle of the forearm runs the median vein, which is formed by the superficial veins in front of the wrist, and terminates at the elbow by joining the cephalic and the basilic veins. The fascia which envelopes the muscles of the fore- Fascia of the g^jcj^ i'g much stronger than that of the upper arm, and fove^m. .^^ strength increases as it approaches the wrist, that the tendons in this situation may be effectually maintained in their proper place. The fascia is attached to the condyles of the humerus, and is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the biceps and bra- chialis anticus. The aponeurotic expansion from the inner edge of the tendon ot the biceps is exceedingly strong, it braces the muscles on the inner side of the arm, and interlaces at right angles with the fibres of the fascia attached to the internal condyle. Along the forearm the fascia is attached to the ridge on the pos- terior part of the ulna. At the back of the wiist it forms the pos- terior annular ligament. On the front of the wrist it is continued into the anterior annular ligament. The under surface of the fascia gives origin to the muscular fibres in the upper part of the forearm, and furnishes septa, which separate the muscles and form so many distinct sheaths for them. ' , Kemove the fascia from the muscles, and preserve them as much as possible in their proper relative position. But before we exa- mine them in detail, let us direct our attention to the important triangular space at the bend of the elbow.DISSECTION OF THE FUONT OP THE ITOREARM. 225 Triangle at '^^^ pronator teres on the ulnar side, and the supi- the bend of nator longus on the radial, form two sides of a tri- contents. ^^S^^^^^' space at the bend of the elbow, of which you must carefully make out the contents; namely: — 1. the brachial artery (with its companion veins), dividing into the radial and ulnar; 2. The tendon of the biceps on its outer side; 3. The median nerve close to its inner side*; 4. The radial recurrent artery; 5. The anterior ulnar recurrent ai-tery; 6. The common interosseous branch of the ubiar artery; 7. The musculo- spiral nerve, deep in the groove between the brachialis anticus and the supinator radii longus, where it divides into the "radial," which accompanies the radial artery, and the posterior interosseous, which perforates the supinator brevis, and supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. , „ The muscles of the forearm are arranged in two Muscles of . ,. „ o the forearm, g^o^ps = One gToup, consistmg of pronators and flexors, is attached to the internal condyle; the other, consist- ing of supinators and extensors, is attached to the external. Exa- mine the inner group first, in the order in which they arise. This muscle bounds the inner side of the trianffular Xronator „_„ , a j-u n t, • ^ ° radii teres. ^P'^^^ eibow. It arises from the anterior siu-face of the internal condyle, and from the septum between it and the flexor carpi radiaUs. It has also a small tendinous origin, from the coronoid process of the ulna. From these two origins, which are separated by the median nerve, the muscle pro- ceeds obliquely downwards, and is inserted by a flat tendon into a rough surface on the outer and back part of the middle of the radius. In amputating the forearm, it is very desirable to save the msertion of this muscle, that the stump may have a pronator. Flexor carpi ^^'^ '^''^''^^ ^ ^^^"^ ^^^'^^^ internal radiaHs. condyle, and from the intermuscular septa. The fleshy fibres terminate near the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which runs beneath the anterior annular Ugament of * The median nerve does not always He close to the artery; it may be distant a. much as alf an .nch from it. I have seen the nerve lying'quite sup.lSt th ai-tery. I have seen it on the. outer side of the vessel. f ^ me ■q226 DISSECTION or THE FRONT OF THE FOKEARM. tHe wrist, passes through a grooYe in the os trapeziuiB lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the base of the second Metacarpal bone. Note that the outer border of its tendon is the <.uide to the radial artery in the lower half of the forearm. This slender muscle arises from tbe common tendon at Palmaris the internal condyle, and from the intermuscular septa. About the middle of tbe forearm it terminates m a tiat tendon, which descends vertically down the middle of the forearm to the wrist, where it passes over the annular ligarnent, and is continued into the palmar fascia. This muscle is a tensor of the palmar fasci.* _^ ^^^^^^ ^.^^.^^^ , SSs origin-takes place from the internal condyle, from the coionoid process of the ulna, and from the ~sf a «epta : the shorter 'origin tahes place by tendinous ^^^^^^^^^^^ f L -.Ti obliaue ridge on the front of the radius. This, wiiicn is XdTjS Jnk is p«t,y concealed ^y^^V^^^^^^ The muscle thm formed paiises down the middle of the ioreaam A Zides into four distinct muscular slips: from these, four tendot Se which pass heneaththe ^mrlar ligament into the Sm " I the fcgers, where they spUt to allow the passage of the deep flexor tendons, and are inserted into the ba.e of the lond phalanges. Its action, therefore, is to bend the second Joint of the finge^.^^^^^^ from the internal condyle, and Flexor c»pi f„m the inner edge of the olecranon: these two origms •>»■'"• rm an arch, under which the ulnar nerve p^ses^ I also arises from the upper two-thirds of the P-t»-;*g^ „, through ^^'^^^Z^-^ZZX^^ -er low as the wrist. It is inserted into the os pisifoime, ana T,=«r,+ The situation of its muscular portion * The palmaris long^is is sometimes absent The s^Uia ^^.^^^ ^^^^ ^^^.^^ is subject to variety; sometimes occupying the ^^^ ^'^ ^ ^ i^t^ the anterior The tendon is in some instances wholly inscrtea in of the forearm. ^nular ligament. ^ ^ ^ j (^f227 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. by a strong tendon into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone and the OS unciforme. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is the guide to the ulnar artery, which lies close to its radial side, and is overlapped by it. As it passes over the annular ligament, the tendon furnishes a fibrous expansion to protect the ulnar artery and nerve. Having finished the study of the superficial muscles on the inner side of the forearm, you must notice one of those on the outer side, named supinator radii longus, before you trace the vessels and nerves of the forearm. This muscle forms the external boundary of the racUUongus. triangular space a£ the bend of the elbow. It arises from the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, com- mencing a little below the insertion of the deltoid. The muscular fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into tbe base of the styloid process of the radius. The inner border of the muscle is the guide to the radial artery. It supinates the hand, but acts most powerfully as a flexor of the forearm. Eadial artery. ^^^^^^ ^^^^^y ^'"^s down the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, where it turns over the external lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and sinks into the space between the first and second meta- carpal bones to form the deep palmar arch. Thus, a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius indicates its course. In the upper third of the forearm, the artery lies between the pronator teres on the inner, and the supinator longus on the outer side; the fleshy border of the latter overlaps it in muscular subjects. In the lower . two-thirds of the forearm the artery is more superficial, and is placed between the tendons of the supinator longus on the outer and the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side. In its coiu-se it lies successively on the follomng: first upon the tendon of the biceps; secondly, upon the supinator radii brevis; thirdly upon the tendon of the pronator teres; fourthly, upon the radial'origin . of the flexor subhmis: fifthly, upon the flexor longus poUicis; and, ' Q 2 *228 DISSECTION OF THE FKONT OE THE FOREARM. lastly, upon the pronator quadratus. It is accompanied by two veins, wliich communicate at frequent intervals, and join the vena3 comites of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow. In the middle third of its course the artery is accompanied by the radial nerve, (a branch of the musculo-spiral) which lies to its outer side. Below this point, the nerve leaves the artery, and passes under the tendon of the supinator longus to the back of the hand. Thus, in the situation where the pulse is felt, the radial nerve no longer accompanies the artery; nevertheless, the vessel is not mthout a nerve, for it is accompanied by a branch of the external cutaneous, which runs superficial to it. ^ „ . The radial artery sends off in" the forearm the followmg lor'xnclics * —* ' The radial remrrent is given off just below the elbow; it passes outwards to supply the long and short supinator and the two radial extensors. One of its ramifications runs up with the musculo- spiral nerve, and sometimes forms a delicate inosculation with the superior profunda (p. 218). ■,. n r, + The arteria superficialis voloi arises from the radial, about halt an inch, or more, above the lower end of the radius; it runs superficially over the anterior annular Hgament of the carpus above or perhaps through the origin of the muscles of the ball of the thumb, into the palm of the hand, where i inosculates with the superficial branch of the ulnar, and completes the superficial palmar arch* (p. 235). _ nf The anterior and posterior carpal arteries are small bianches o the radial, which run beneath the tendons, and .^^PP^^ ^^^j^f membrane and bones of the carpus, anastomosing mth the inter- osseous arteries and carpal branches of the ulnar. The radial nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral, is Badial nerye. ^^^^ ^^^^^ of the elbow, deep between the supinator radii longus and brachialis anticus; it descends on the outer side of the radial artery, covered by the supinator radu * There is great variety in the size and origin of the superficialis ^ ■ it is very large'^^.ises higL than usual, and runs to * ^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^ ■ ^metimes it is voi-y small, teiminating in the muscles of the thumb, or mayDISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 229 long-US. In the upper third of the forearm the nerve is at some distance from the artery; in the middle third it approaches nearer to it; but in the lower third, the nerve leaves the artery, passes imderneath the tendon of the supinator longus, perforates the fascia on the outer side of the forearm, and divides into branches, which supply the back of the thumb, fore, and half the middle finger. Ulnar artery. ^^'^ ^^^^'^ ^^'^^^^ ^^^^ brachial at the middle of the elbow, runs obliquely inwards along the ulnar side of the forearm to the wrist, passes over the annular ligament near the pisiform bone, and entering the palm, forms the superficial palmar arch, by inosculating with the superficialis volae. In the upper half of its course the artery describes a gentle curve with the concavity towards the radius, and lies deep beneath the superficial layer of muscles—the pronator teres, flexor carpi ra- dialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. In the lower part of its course it descends between the flexor sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris, of which the tendon partially overlaps it at the wrist. The artery Hes for a short distance on the brachialis anticus; in the remainder of its course it lies on the flexor pro- fundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve is at first separated from the artery by a consi- derable interval: but about the middle of the forearm it joins the artery, and accompanies it in the rest of its course, lying close to Its mner side. Both pass over the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, lying close to the pisiform bone,—the nerve beino- nearer to the bone. A strong expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris protects them in this exposed situation. Observe particularly the depth of the ulnar artery under the many muscles which cover it in the upper third of its course In the middle thii-d it is partially overlapped by the flexor "carpi ulnaris. In the lower third it lies under the radial border of the flexor carpi uhiaris, which is the proper guide to the vessel The ulnar artery furnishes the following branches in the fore e arm: — The anterior and posterior ulnar recun-ent arise immediately below the elbow-joint,-sometimes by a common trunk, sometimes <i 3230 DISSECTION OF THE EKONT OF THE FOREABM. separately. The anterior passes upwards in front of the brachialis Inticus, and inosculates with the inferior profunda and anastomo- tica magna. The posterior ascends beneath the flexor suhlimis digitorum, to the space between the internal condyle and the ole- cranon, where it inosculates with the same arteries as the anterior (p. 218). The common interosseous artery arises from the ulnar, about an inch and a half below the division of the brachial; and soon divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous, which we shall examine presently. A branch {arteria comes nervi mediani) almost always accom- panies the median nerve. It lies in close contact with the nerve and sometimes i^i its very centre: though usually of small size, it may be as large as the ulnar artery it.elf; and in such a case it passes under the annular ligament with the nerve, to jom the palmar arch. This is interesting, because it helps to explain the recurrence of haemorrhage from a wound in the palm, even after the radial and ulnar arteries have been tied. _ The anterior and posterior carpal branches commumcate with corresponding branches from the radial, and supply the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus. -, , i , This nerve runs behind the internal condyle between Ulnar nerve. ^^.^.^g flg^o^ carpi ulnaris. In its course down the upper part of the forearm, the nerve is still covered by this muscle, and lies upon the flexor P-f^-^-digitorum Abo^^ the middle third of the forearm, the nerve joms the ulnar -^^^-J^ runs along its inner side over the annular ligament into the palm. The ulnar nerve supplies only two --1-/^/^; "; namely, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the inner half of the flexor a half above the styloid process of the nln. the nerve gives off a large cutaneous branch to the back of the band. It crosses nnder the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnans and, immediately below the styloid process of the ^^^^^' ^''22 the back of the hand, where it divides into ^ the back of the little finger, the ring, and half the middle fingei.DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE rOEEARM. 231 ,^ ,. This nerve, at the bend of the elbow, lies on the inner Median ' nerve. Side of the brachial artery. It then passes between the two origins of the pronator teres, and descends along the middle of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum: it enters the palm beneath the anterior annular ligament, and divides into five branches for the supply of the thumb, both sides of the fore and middle fingers, and the outer side of the ring finger.* Immediately below the elbow, the median nerve sends branches to the pronator and all the flexor muscles of the forearm, except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve. The interosseous branch of the median runs with the anterior interosseous artery, and supplies the flexor profundus digitorum, the flexor longus poUicis, and the pronator quadratus. Before the median nerve passes beneath the annular ligament, it sends off its superficial palmar branch, which passes over the annular ligament and divides into small filaments to supply the skin of the palm and ball of the thumb. You should now reflect the superficial layer of muscles, to see those more deeply seated. Preserve the principal vessels and nerves. The deep-seated muscles are the flexor digitorum profundus, and the flexor long-us poUicis; beneath both, near the wrist, lies the pronator quadratus. Close to the interosseous membrane run the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. Flexor pro- ^^^^ thickest muscle of the forearm. It ao^ises ftindus from the upper two-thirds of the anterior sm-face of the digitorum. i r- xi Ulna, trom the same extent of its internal surface, from the aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, and from the inner two-thirds of the interosseous ligament. About * In the upper tliree-fourtlis of the forearm the median nerve lies deep between the muscles ; but in the lower fourth it is more superficial, and runs very nearly down the centre of the m-ist. Its exact position at the wrist is between the fleshy border of the outer tendon of the flexor sublimis and the inner border of the tendon of the flexor carpi radiaUs, and it lies upon one of the tendons of the flexor profundus. If the tendon of the pahnaris longus happen to bo broader than usual", it may par- tiaUy cover the mecUan nerve near the wrist; but most frequently the nerve is imme- diately beneath the fiiscia, the tendon lying to its ulnar side. Q 4232 DISSECTION OF THE FllONT OF THE FOKEARM. the middle of the forearm it divides into four muscular slips, which terminate in flat tendons. These tendons lie upon the same plane, and pass beneath the annular ligament under those of the super- ficial flexor, into the palm. On the first phalanx of the fingers, the tendons of the deep flexor perforate those of the superficial, and are inserted into the base of the third or ungual phalanx. This muscle is situated on the front surface of the fongus radius. It arises from the front surface of the radu;s pollicis. between the tubercle and the pronator qnadratus, and from the interosseous membrane.* Its tendon proceeds beneath the annular ligament to the last phalanx of the thumb. to. This square muscle arises from the lower fourth of the quacbatus. ulna; ^ts fibres pass transversely outwards, and are inserted into the lower fourth of the radius. It rotates the radms on the ulna. . ^ ^i. • „ i.u^ Nearly on a level with the msertion of the biceps, the S:S""'^\lnar artery gives off from its outer side the com.ron interosseous trunk, which runs backwards for about half an mch, and divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous. _ The anterior interosseous artery runs down close to the mter- osseous membrane, lying between the flexor Vro^^f-^^S^Z and flexor longus pollicis. At the upper ^^^^^l'^^]^^^ quadratus it divides into two branches ; one of which, the smaller of the two, supplies the muscle and the front of the carpal bones r^munic ting with the anterior carpal arteries from the radia and ulnar; the other, by far the most important, per orates he •rterosseous membrane, and helps to supply the muscles on the back ot the forearm. t„ mnsoles The anterior mterosseous artery gives off branehes to the muse es on Ate Bide, and the nutrient arteries which run mto the ::di:rand fronr below upwards, near- the centre of the fore- irm to sunnlv the medullary membrane. arm, supply _^ ^^^^^ ^ . ^^^^^ ^^^^.^^ . ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^tlSLus the artery, supplies the flexor longus pollicis, flexor pro- . fundus digitorum, and the pronator quadratus. « Sometimes by a slip from tlie coronoid process.233 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. Eeflect the skin from the palm. In doing so, you will observe how closely in the centre of the palm it adheres to the palmar fascia beneath it. On the ball of the little finger and the distal ends of the metacarpal bones, the subcutaneous structure is com- posed of a dense filamentous tissue, which contains numerous pellets of fat, forming a kind of elastic pad. A similar padding protects the palmar surfaces of the fingers. These cushions on the ends of the fingers defend them in the powerful actions of the hand; they are also useful in subservience to the nerves of touch. Be careful not to remove a small cutaneous muscle, jpalmaris brevis, situated near the ball of the little finger. The nerves of the pahn are supplied by the palmar branch of the median nerve (p. 231), which passes over the annular ligament; and by others, which rim up through miaute openings in the palmar fascia with the cutaneous arteries. Palmar This fascia has a silvery lustre, and, in the centre of fascia. the palm, is remarkably dense and strong. It is divided into three portions, a central,—by far the most conspicuous; an external, covering the muscles of the thumb; and an internal, covering the muscles of the little finger. From the deep surface of the fascia two septa dip down, so as to divide the palm into three separate compartments; one for the ball of the thumb, a second for that of the little finger, and a third for the centre of the palm. The fascia is formed by a prolongation from the anterior annular ligament. It is also strengthened by the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus. The central portion of the fascia is triangular, with the apex at the wrist. About the middle of the palm it splits into four portions, which are connected together by transverse tendinous fibres, ex- tending completely across the palm, and corresponding pretty nearly to the transverse furrow of the sldn in this situation!234 DISSECTION or THE PALM OIT THE HAND. Examine any one of these four portions of the fascia, and"you will find that it splits into two strips which embrace the corre- sponding flexor tendons, and are intimately connected with the transverse metacarpal ligament. The effect of this is that the flexor tendons of each finger are kept in place in the palm, by a fibrous ring. Between the four divisions of the palmar fascia the digital vessels and nerves emerge, and descend in a line with the clefts between the fingers. In the hands of mechanics, in whom the palmar fascia is usually very strong, we find that slips of it are lost in the skin at the lower part of the palm, and also for a short distance along the sides of the fingers. The chief use of the palmar fascia is to protect the vessels and nerves from pressure when anything is grasped in the hand. It also confines the flexor tendons in their proper place. Between the interdigital folds of the skin, we find aponeurotic fibres to strengthen them, constituting what are called the trans- verse ligaments of the fingers. They form a continuous ligament , across the lower part of the palm, in front of the digital vessels and nerves. Now turn down the palmar fascia towards the fingers, and you will expose the vessels, nerves, and tendons in the palm. The vessels lie above the nerves, and the tendons still deeper. There is an abundance of loose cellular tissue to allow the free play of the tendons. When suppuration takes place in the palm, it is seated in this tissue. Reflect for a moment, what mischief is likely to ensue. The matter cannot get to the surface through the dense palmar fascia, or on the back of the hand ; it wiU therefore runup under the annular ligament, and make its way deep amongst the tendons of the forearm. This small cutaneous muscle is situated on the mner Palmaris gj^je of the palm. It arises from the inner edge of the central palmar fascia, and terminates in the skin on the inner side of the palm. Its use is to support the pad on the inner edge of the palm : it acts powerfully as we gi-asp; it raises the edge of the palm and hollows it, forming the « cup of Diogenes."DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF .THE HAND. 235 Superficial '^^^ '^^^^^^ artery having passed over the annular palmar ar- ligament near the pisiform bone, describes a curve tenal arch. ,, , -, , across the upper part of the palm beneath the palmar fascia, and, gradually diminishing in size, inosculates with the Fig. 46, DIAGEAM OP THE SUPBEFICIAL AND DEEP PAXMAB AECHES. 1, 2, 3, 4. Interosseous branches. superficialis vol^, or some other branch of the radial, to form the snperficial palmar arch. The curve of the arch is directed towardsDISSECTION OF THE PALM OE THE HAND. 236 the ball of the thumb. How are we to ascertain its exact position in the hand? — most commonly its greatest convexity descends as low as a horizontal line drawn across the junction of the upper with the middle third of the palm. In its passage over the annular ligament^ the artery is protected in a furrow between the pisiform and unciform bones, and by an expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the pal- maris longus. The ulnar nerve lies close to its inner side. In the palm, before it crosses the flexor tendons, the artery lies for a short distance upon the muscles of the little finger, and is covered by the palmaris brevis. . Immediately below the pisiform bone, the ulnar Branches ol _ . /• 7 i • t_ • i ulnar artery artery gives off the ulnaris profunda, which sinks in the palm. ^^^^ ^^^m between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, to assist in forming the deep palmar arch. It is accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. From the concavity of the arch small branches ascend to the carpus, and inosculate with the other carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. From the convexity of the arch arise four digital arteries, which supply all the fingers, excepting the radial side of the index finger. You should observe carefully the course of these arteries, because you may have to open abscesses in the palm. The first descends over the muscles on the inner side of the palm, to the ulnar side of the little finger, along which it runs to the apex. The second, third, and fourth descend nearly vertically between the tendons, in a line with the clefts between the fingers, and about half an inch above the clefts each divides into two branches, which proceed along the opposite sides of the fingers nearly to the' end of the last phalanges, where they unite to form an arch with the convexity towards the end of the finger; from this arch numerous branches supply the papillae of the skin. In the palm of the hand the digital arteries before they divide are joined by a small branch from the corresponding interosseous artery, (a branch of the deep palmar arch). The digital arteries freely communicate, on the palmar and237 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. dorsal aspect of the fingers, by transverse branches, which supply the joints and the sheaths of the tendons. Near the ungual phalanx, a considerable branch passes to the back of the finger, and forms a network of vessels round the root of the nail. The idnar nerve passes over the annular ligament i?the paS,*! P''^^™' ^^^^^ side of the ulnar artery. It lies in a groove between the pisiform and unciform bones, so that it is perfectly secure from pressure in this apparently exposed situation. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the nerve divides into a superficial and a deep palmar branch. The dee;p branch supplies the muscles of the little finger, and accompanies the uhiaris profunda artery into the palm, to supply all the inter- osseous muscles. The superficial branch divides into two digital nerves*, for the supply of both sides of the little finger and the ulnar side of the ring: finger. Anterior ^^^^ exceedingly strong and thick ligament confines annular the flexor tendons of the fingers and thumb, and fastens Ser^uf together the bones of the carpus. It is attached exter- nally to the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally to the pisiform and unciform. Its upper border is continuous with the aponeurosis in front of the wi-ist; its lower border terminates in the palmar fascia; its anterior surface receives the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus, and gives origin to most of the muscles constituting the ball of the thumb and little finger. Cut vertically through the ligament, and observe, that, with the carpal bones, it foi-ms a complete elliptical canal, with the broad diameter transversely. This canal is lined by a synovial mem- brane which is reflected loosely over the tendons. It transmits the * The more internal of these two nei-ves sends filaments to the palmaris brevis to the integument on the inner side of the palm, and is joined by a filament from'the dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerye; it then rims along the uhiar side of the palm internal to its coiTcsponding artery, and is continued along the inner side of the little finger to the extremity. The other nerre descends internal to its coiTosnond ing artery, and passes obHquely over the flexor tendons of the little finger towards tlio eleffc between the little and ring fingers, w].ore it subdivides into two bivanches wh h run along the opposite sides of these two fingers to their exti-emities. It also Lends a filament to communicate with the median nerve, behind the superficial palmar ai-chDISSECTION OP THE PALM OF THE HAND. 238 superficial and deep flexor tendons of the fingers, the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the median nerve. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis does not run with the other tendons, but is contained in a distinct sheath, lined by a separate synovial mem- brane, formed partly by the annular ligament and partly by the groove in the trapezium. In its passage under the annular ligament, the Median nerve jj^gdian nerve is enveloped in a fold of synovial mem- m the palm. -^^^^^^ ^ies between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and those of the flexor profundus, and is rather nearer to the radial than the ulnar side of the wrist. As soon as it appears in the palm, the nerve lies superficial to all the tendons, gives a branch to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, and then divides into five branches, two for the thumb, the rest for the fore and middle fingers and the radial side of the ring finger. The two nerves of the thumb proceed, one on each side of the long flexor tendon, to the last phalanx. The first digital nerve runs along the radial side of the index finger. The second descends towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and subdivides into two branches, which supply their opposite sides. The third is joined by a filament from one of the ulnar digital nerves, and then subdivides above the cleft between the middle and ring fingers, to supply their opposite sides. About an inch and a quarter above the clefts between the fingers, each digital nerve subdivides into two branches, between which the digital artery passes and bifurcates lower down; there- fore a vertical incision down the cleft would divide the artery before the nerve. In their com'se along the fingers and thumb, the nerves lie superficial to the arteries, and nearer to the flexor tendons. About the middle of the first phalanx each nerve sends a branch, which runs along the back of the finger nearly to the extremity, commu- nicating with the dorsal branches derived from the radial and ulnar nerves.* Near the ungual phalanx another branch is distributed to * We find upon the cutaneous nerves of the hands and feet Httle bodies termed, after their discoverer, corpuscles of "Pacini." Some of them wiU be found, by care-DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. 239 the skin around and beneath the root of the nail. Each nerve terminates near the end of the finger in a brush of filaments, with their points directed to the papillae of the skin. Plexor ten- Immediately below the annulax ligament the tendons dons and Separate from each other; near the metacarpal ioints their sheaths. , i • ■ i , n-, . , . they pass m pairs, through strong fibrous nngs (p. 234) formed by the divisions of the palmar fascia. Below the meta- carpal joint the two tendons for each finger enter the sheath (theca), which confines them in their course along the phalanges. It is formed by a strong fibrous membrane, which is attached to the ridges on the phalanges, and converts the groove in front of these bones into a complete canal, exactly large enough to contain the tendons. The density of the sheath necessarily varies in particular situations, otherwise there would be an obstacle to the easy flexion of the fingers. To ascertain this, cut open one of the sheaths along its entire length; you will then see that it is much stronger between the joints than over the joints themselves; thi-ough these sheaths, inflammation commencing in the integu- ments of the finger may readily extend jto the synovial membrane of the tendon. In cases of whitlow, when matter forms in the theca, the incision should be made deep enough to lay open this fibro-osseous canal, without which the incision will be of no use. It is obvious that the incision should be made down the centre of the finger, to avoid the digital nerves and arteries. If this opening be not timely made, the flexor tendons are likely to slough, and the finger becomes stiff.* fully examining the tntnk of a nerre, or one of its smaUer branches, in the subcutaneous tissue at the root of a finger. Each coi-puscle is attached by a slender flbro-ceUidar pedicle to the nerve upon ^hich it is situated; through tlie pedicle a single primitive nerve-fibnl passes into the corpuscle. The corpuscle its^^lf is composed of a series of concentric capsules, separated by inter^^als containing fluid; and the nerve-fibril ter iTii^'o^ "^'^''''''' ^'^^ '-^^^ °^ -^p-<^^- T'-- f-etbi; * On closer inspection it wiU be observed that the sheath is composed of bands of fibres, which take different directions, and have received distinctUr ti .trongcst are caUed the " H,an.en.a .aginalla. They constltut the s^:^^^^^^^^^^^DISSECTION or THE PALM OF THE HAND. 240 But what protects the joints of the fingers where the flexor tendons play over them? Look into an open sheath, and you will see that in front of the joints the tendons glide over a smooth fibro-cartilaginous structvire, called the "glenoid" ligament. To facilitate the play of the tendons, the interior of the sheath, as well as the tendons, are lined by a synovial membrane, of the extent of which it is important to have a correct knowledge. With a probe you may easily ascertain that the synovial membrane is reflected from the sheath upon the tendons, a little above the metacarpal joints of the fingers ; that is, nearly in a line with the transverse fold in the skin in the lower third of the palm. Towards the distal end of the finger, the synovial sheath stops short of the last joint, so thf^t it is not injured in amputation of the ungual phalanx. In dissecting the sheaths of the tendons, I have frequently observed little hernia-like protrusions of the synovial membrane through the sheath, varying in size from a pin's head to a pea, very hard and incompressible : when punctured a reddish substance like apple jelly escapes,'and the tumor subsides. I have seen these little tumours in the living hand; they interfere with the proper- use of the finger: so far as my experience goes, the best mode of treating them is to evacuate their contents by a' subcutaneous puncture, and keep the finger on a splint for a few days after- wards. And now notice how beautifully the tendons are adapted to each other in their course along the finger. The superficial flexor, near the root of the finger, becomes slightly grooved to receive the deep flexor • about the middle of the first phalanx it splits mto two portions, through which the deep flexor passes. The two portrons reunite below the deep tendon so as completely to embrace it, and tody of the phalanx, and extend transversely from one side of the bone to the other The " ligamenta cruciata" are two slips, wHeh cross obliquely over the tendons, ihe ^'ligamenta annularia" are situated immediately in fi-ont of the joints,_ and may be considered as thin eontinuations of the ligamenta yaginalia. They eonsist of dcbcate fibres, which are attached on either side of the joints to the glenoid bgaments, and pass transversely over the tendons.Dissection 6i* the palm of the hand. 54t then divide a second time into two slips, which interlace, with- each other and are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The deep flexor, having passed through the opening of the super- ficial one, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx.* In what way are the tendons supplied with blood ? Eaise and separate the tendons, and you will see that slender folds of synovial membrane (vincula tendinum) run up from the phalanges to the tendons; when minutely injected, these folds are full of blood- vessels. The tendon of the flexor longus jpolUcis lies on the radial side of the other tendons beneath the annular ligament. It passes between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis and the two sesamoid bones of the thumb, enters its proper sheath, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Its synovial sheath is prolonged from the large bursa of the flexor tendons beneatJa the annular ligament, and accompanies it down to the last joint of the thumb ; consequently the sheath is injured in amputation of the last phalanx. Bursal sac of ^ ^^^^^ synovial sac, called the bursa of the tie carpus.° carpus, facilitates the play of the tendons beneath the • anterior annular ligament. It lines the under surface of the ligament and the groove of the carpus, and is reflected in loose folds over the-tendons. It is prolonged up the tendons for an inch and a half, or two inches, and forms a "cul-de-sac" above the ligament. Below the ligament the bursa extends into the palm, and sends off" prolongations for each of the flexor tendons, which accompany them down to the middle of the hand. You will easily understand that, when the bursa is inflamed and distended by fluid here will be a bulging above the annular ligament, and another in the palm, with perceptible fluctuation between them; the unyield- ing ligament causing a constriction in the centre.f passage along the phalanges the Z^^^fTj^l T^^ T"^'"; -^'^^ ^^'^ patella for the supei-flcial one - but at the T / i Arst phalanx a kind of little deeper than the i,the, and fo'nns 1 le ^Stlt Th" ■nical ingenuity to increase the leverage in each c-isc ^''"'^ t I hare met with only one instance in which this h,.v.. ^ wmcu tills biu-sa communicated with tho242 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. These four slender muscles, one for each finger, are Xumbrlcalcs. ^^^^^^-^^^ ^o the deep flexor tendons in the palm. All of them arise from the radial side of the deep tendon of their corre- sponding finger: the third and fourth often arise from the adjacent sides of two tendons. Each terminates in a broad thin tendon which passes over the radial side of the first joint of the finger, and is inserted into the extensor tendon on the back of the finger. Their action is to bend the first joint of the fingers. Being inserted near the centre of motion, they can move the fingers with ^ great rapidity. As they produce the quick motions of the musician's fingers, they are called by anatomists " fidicinales." uscles of strength of the muscles of the ball of the the ball of thumb (unde nomen pollicis),,is one of the distinguishing the thimb. ^.]^aracters of the human hand. This strength is neces- sary in order to oppose that of all the fingers. In addition to its strength, the thumb enjoys perfect mobility. It has no less than eight muscles to work it: —namely, an abductor, an opponens, two flexors, three extensors, and an adductor. Take first the muscles of the ball. This is the most superficial of the muscles of the ball. Abductor arises from the os scaphoides and annular ligament; and is inserted by a flat tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb away^ from the fingers. Eeflect it from its insertion to expose the foUowmg— This muscle arises from the os trapezium and the Flexor ossis ^^^^^^^ ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of poSr the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The action of this opponens. ^^^^^.f^^ ^^^g^le is to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. Eeflect it from its insertion to expose the following — This muscle has two origins; one from the annular Flexor brevis ligament and os trapezium, the other from the os trapezoides, os magnum, and the upper end of the wist joint. It communicates always with the synovial sheath of the long flexor of . r humb, in most cases with that of the flexors of the little finger, and but rardy with that ;f the index, middle, and ring fingers. On tins accoxmt^inflammat.on of^e theca of the thxm.b or little finger is more liable to be attended with serious conse- quences than either of the others.243 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OP THE HAND. third metacarpal bone. It is inserted by two strong tendons into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. A sesamoid bone is found in each of the tendons. The lower portions of the muscle are separated by the long flexor tendon of the thumb and the arteria magna pollicis. Its action is to bend the first phalanx of the thumb. Adductor ^^^^ muscle anses from the shaft of the metacarpal poUicS"'' middle finger; its fibres converge and are inserted, along with the inner portion of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb towards the palm, as when we bring the tips of the thumb and little finger into contact. The adductor pollicis should be considered as one of the palmar interosseous muscles. It is supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which we know supplies all the other interossei. The other muscles of the ball of the thumb are suppHed by the median nerve. Muscles of muscles of the little finger correspond in some the ball of measure with those of the thumb. Thus we have an fiuger"^ abductor, a flexor brevis,. and an opponens minimi digiti. Abductor This is the most superficial of the muscles of the little minimi finger; it arises from the pisiform bone, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is to draw this finger from the rest. . This slender muscle may fairly be considered as a Plexor brens r . i t ^ . minimi digiti. poition ot the precedmg. It arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and is inserted with the tendon of the abductor into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is similar to that of the abductor Be- tween the origins of the abductor and flexor brevis minimi diaiti the deep branch of the ulnar artery and nerve sinks down to form' the deep palmar arch. Opponens The last two muscles must be reflected from their mSL. '""'^'^T' 'P^''''''' "^'Oiii mAM. It amses from the unciform bone and the annular ligament, K 2244 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OE THE IIAKD. and is inserted along the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Its action is to draw this bone, the most moveable of all the metacarpal bones of the fingers, towards the thumb. Thus it greatly strengthens the grasp of the palm. Now you must cut through all the flexor tendons, and remove the deep fascia of the palm, to see the deep arch of arteries and its branches. The radial artery, enters the palm at the angle radial°ar- between the first and, second metacarpal bones (be- teryinthe tween the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis), and gives ofi" three branches—the arteria magna pollicis, the radialis indicis, and the palmaris pro- funda, which unites with the ulnar to form the deep arch. The arteria magna pollicis runs in front of the abductor indicis (first dorsal interosseous), close along the metacarpal bone of the thumb: in the interval between the lower portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, the artery divides into two branches, which proceed, one on either side of the thumb, and inosculate at the apex of the last phalanx. Their distribution and mode of termination are similar to those of the other digital arteries. The arteria radialis indicis runs along the radial side of the index finger to the extremity, where it forms an arch with the other digital artery, a branch of the ulnar. Near the lower margin of the adductor pollicis, the radialis indicis generally receives a branch from the superficial palmar arch. The palmaris profunda is considered as the continuation of the radial artery. It enters the palm between the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, runs across the upper ends of the metacarpal bones, and inosculates with the deep branch of the' ■ulnar artery, thus completing the deep palmar arch. From the curve of the arch small branches ascend to supply the bones and joints of the carpus, inosculating with the other carpal arteries. From the convexity of the arch four small branches, called palmar interosseous (p. 235, 1, 2, 3, 4), descend to supply the interosseous muscles, and near the clefts of the fingers communicate wth the digital arteries. These palmar interosseous branches are sometimesMUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE AUM: 245 of considerable size, and take the place of one or more of the digital arteries, ordinarily derived from the superficial palmar arch. Other branches called ^perforating arteries, pass between the upper ends of the metacarpal bones to the back of the hand, and communicate with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. Deep brancrh ^his nerve sinks into the palm with the ulnaris pro- of^tJieuhnar funda artery, between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti. It then runs with the deep palmar arch towards the radial side of the palm, and terminates in the adductor pollicis. Between the pisiform and unciform bones, the nerve gives a branch to each of the muscles of the little finger. Subsequently, it sends branches to each interosseous muscle, and generally to the two internal lumbricales. The dissection of the remaining muscles of the palm, called, from their position, interossei, must be for the present postponed. DISSECTION OP THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE AEM. Make an incision down the spine from the occiput to the sacrum • another from the last dorsal vertebra to the spine of the scapula' and thence along the spine to the acromion. Eeflect the skin from the dense subcutaneous tissue. Cutaneous These are derived from the posterior branches of the thTba^k. 'P^^^ Afte^ supplying the muscles in the ver- tebral groove, these branches become subcutaneous in nearly a regular series, but not all at an equal distance from the spme. Thus, in the cervical and upper dorsal region, the cuta- neous nerves perforate the trapezius close to the spine: in the lower dorsal and the lumbar region, they perforate the latissimus' dorsi m a hue nearly corresponding to the angles of the ribs Each cutaneous nerve then divides into internal and externai branches, wh:ch supply the integument of the respective regions R 3 "246 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. of the back to which they belong. Most of them are accompanied by small arteries. As might be expected, the external branches are the larger, especially in the loins, where some of them descend over the crest of the ilitim, and terminate in the skin of the buttock. Of these cutaneous nerves we need notice only the followmg : The posterior branch of the second cervical nerve is called the great occipital. It perforates the complexus, and ramifies upoii the scalp, with the branches of the occipital artery. The cutaneous branch of the third cervical nerve also supplies . the back of the scalp. The cutaneous branch of the second dorsal nerve is the largest of all the dorsi}.l cutaneous nerves. It may be traced outwards towards the spine of the scapula. The posterior branch of the second lumbar nerve perforates the fascia lumborum near the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and runs over the crest of the ilium to supply the skin of the buttock. Clean the trapezius and latissimus dorsi by dissectmg m the course of their fibres. i. ^ ^ -4. Taken alone this muscle is triangular, but with its Trapezius. ^^^^^^ presents a trapezoid form. It arises from the inner fourth, more or less, of the superior curved line of the occiput; from the ligamentum nuchse * and from the spmes of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebrae.^ The fibres con- verge towards the shoulder. The upper are ^nserted fleshy into the external third of the clavicle; the middle, into the mner border of the acromion and spine of the scapula ; the lower termi- nate in a thin tendon, which plays over the triangular surface at the back of the scapula, and is inserted into the beginning of the spine. The insertion of the trapezius exactly corresponds to the . The " ligamentum nuchee " is, in man, only a rudiment of the gi-eut el-tic Ugam^^^^^ which supports the weight of the head in quadx-upeds. It ^^^^l^^^^^^ the occiput to the spines of aU the cervical vertebra excqot the ' J^^^^^^ .o.dd impede the .-ee rotation of the head. ^^^^^^^^^^^^ long, and as thick as a man's forearm. I am told by iiotessor uucKt , divided it shrinks at least two feet.MUSCLES OP THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 247 origin of the deltoid, and the two muscles are connected by a thin aponeurosis over the spine and acromion. If both the trapezius muscles be exposed, you will see that, between the sixth cervical and the thii-d dorsal vertebra, their origin presents an aponeurotic space of an elliptical form. The fixed point of the muscle being at the spine, all its fibres tend to raise the shoulder. The deltoid cannot raise the humerus beyond an angle of sixty degrees: beyond this the elevation of the arm is principally effected by the action of the trapezius upon the scapula. It is in strong action when a weight is borne upon the shoulders: again it acts powerfully in drawing the scapula back- wards, as in preparing to strike a violent blow. It is supplied by the nervus accessorius and by the superficialis colli artery. This broad flat muscle occupies the lumbar and lower Latissunus ^^^^^y region, and thence extends to the arm, where it forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, from the "fascia luraborum," from the spinous processes of the six lower dorsal vertebrae beneath the trapezius, and, lastly, from the three or four lower ribs by digitations, which correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres converge towards the axilla, where they form a thick muscle, which is folded beneath the teres major, and inserted by a broad flat tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The tendon is about two inches broad, and lies in front of that of the teres major, from which it is separated by a large bursa.* The latissimus dorsi draws the humerus inwai-ds and backwards: it also co-operates with the pectoralis major in pulling any object towards the body: if the humerus be the fixed point, it raises the body, as in climbing. What is the object of the muscle arising so high up the back? It is that the transverse fibres of the muscle serve the important purpose of strapping down the inferior angle of the scapula. It sometimes happens that the scapula slips above the muscle: this displacement is readily recognised by the un- * The latissimus dorsi sometimes receives a distinct accessonr sUp from the inferior angle of the scapula. B 4248 IHUSULES pP THK BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM.- natural projection of the lower angle of the bone, and tlie impaired, movements of the arm.* Between the base of the scapula, the trapezius, and the upper border of the latissimus dorsi, a triangular space is observed when the arm is raised, in which the lower fibres of the rhomboideus. major and part of the sixth intercostal space, are exposed. Imme- diately above the crest of the ilium, between the free margins of the latissimus dorsi and external oblique, there is, also, an interval in which a little of the internal oblique can be seen. This is a dense shining aponeurosis in the lumbar Pascialum- region, thin and poiated above, broader and stronger below. It consists of tendinous fibres, which are at- tached to the spines of the six or seven lower dorsal, all the lumbar and sacral vertebte, and to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium. It serves as the common origin of the latissimus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior, and the internal oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen, and it forms the posterior part of the sheath of the erector spinas. When suppuration takes place in the loins, constituting " lumbar abscess," in connection with spmal disease, the matter is seated beneath this fascia, and is therefore a long time in coming to the surface. Eeflect the trapezius from its insertion. On its under surface you will see the ramifications of its nutrient artery, the supei'ficiahs com (a branch of the posterior scapular). A large nerve, the apinal accessory, enters its under surface near the clavicle, and then divides into filaments, some of which ascend, others descend in its substance. _ This nerve is one of the three divisions of the eighth Spmal aaces- p^ir of cerebral nerves. It arises from the lateral part .orynerye, ^^^^^^^ p^^^..^^ ^£ gpi^al cord by several roots, fiome of which are as low as the fom-th cervical vertebra. ■* I ha^e seen an ^stance of tWs displacement. There was great Fojection pf the inferior angle of i^e scapula, especially when the man attempted to raise the arm He could not raise the arm beyond a right angle, imless firm pressure was -ado on t^^^^ Ztv upgle of the .cap.da, 'so as to supply the place of the muscular strap, mether the scapula can be replaced or not, apply a firm bandage round the chest.MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 249 Formed by the union of these roots, the nerve enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and leaves it again through the foramen jugulare. It then runs behind the internal jugular vein, traverses obliquely the upper third of the sterno-mastoid, and crosses the posterior triangle of the neck to the trapezius, which it supplies, (p. 11.) Beneath the trapezius we have to examine four muscles con- nected with the scapula, namely, the levator anguli scapulae, the omo-hyoideus, the rhomboideus major and minor. To clean these muscles, the scapula must be adjusted so as to stretch their fibres. This muscle is situated at the side of the neck. It gSiscapSffi ^^^^s by four tendons from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical ver- tebrae. The muscular slips to which the tendons give rise, form a single muscle, which descends down the side of the neck, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula between its spine and superior angle. Its action is to raise the posterior angle of the scapula; as, for instance, in shrugging the shoulders. Its nerve comes from the fifth cervical. EhomlDo- These flat muscles extend from the spinous processes ideus major of the vertebra to the base of the scapula. They often an minor. ^-^^^^-^ j^j^g ^ single muscle. The rhomboideus minor, the higher of the two, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the spinous processes of the last cervical and the first dorsal vertebra, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite its spine. The rhomboideus major arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the base of the scapula between its spine and inferior angle. The action of these muscles is to draw the scapula upwards and backwards. They are the antagonists of the serratus magnus. The nerve of the rhomboid muscles (posterior scapular) is a branch of the fifth cervical nerve. It passes outwards beneath the lower part of the levator anguli scapulae, to which it sends a branch, and is lost in the under surface of the rhomboid muscles.250 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ABM.' This muscle extends from the scapula to the os deus"^^°^" hyoides, and consists of two long narrow muscular por- tions, connected by an intermediate tendon beneath the sterno-mastoid. The posterior portion only can be seen in the present dissection. It arises from the scapula, close behind the notch, and from the ligament above the notch. From thence the slender muscle passes forwards across the lower part of the neck, beneath the sterno-mastoid, where it changes its direction and ascends nearly vertically, to be attached to the os hyoides at the junction of the body with the greater cornu (p. 9). Thus the two portions of the muscle form beneath the sterno-mastoid an obtuse angle of which the apex is tendinous, and of which the angular direction is maintained by a layer of fascia, proceeding from the tendon to the first rib and the clavicle. Its action is to depress the OS hyoides. This artery (transversalis humeri), a branch of the Siipra-scapu- thyroid axis, runs beneath and parallel with the clavicle ar artery. supra-scapular notch, through which it passes to supply the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus, and then inosculates freely with the dorsalis scapula;, a branch of the subscapular. It sends off the supra-acromial branch, which ramifies upon the acromion, anastomosing with the other acromial arteries derived from branches of the axillary. The supra-scapular vein terminates either in the subclavian or in the external jugular vein. The supra-scapular nerve, a branch of the fifth and sixth cer- vical nerve, runs with the corresponding artery, and is distributed to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus. This artery is a continuation of the " transversalis bZI^S colli," which is usually described as arising from the thyroid axis, but comes just as often from the sub- clavian in the third part of its course. It runs across the lower part of the neck, above, or between the nerves of the brachial plexus, towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Here it takes the name of posterior scapular, and pursues its course beneath the levator anguli scapulse and the rhomboid muscles. If you divide the rhomboid muscles near their insertion, you can traceMUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 251 the artery to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it terminates in the rhomboid and serratus magnus. Numerous muscular branches arise from this artery. One, the superficialis colli, is given off near the upper angle of the scapula for the supply of the trapezius. The 'posterior scapular vein terminates in. the su.bclavian or in the external jugular. Divide and reflect the latissimus dorsi below the inferior angle of the scapula, and draw the scapula forcibly outwards, in order to have a more perfect view of the extent of the serratus magnus than you had in the axilla. The great abundance of cellidar tissue in this situation is necessary for the free play of the scapula on the side of the chest. This broad flat muscle intervenes between the scapula SjnS ^^"^ arises.by fleshy digitations from the eight or nine upper ribs. The four lower digitations correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdo- men. All the fibres pass backwards and converge to be inserted along the posterior border of the scapula, chiefly near the upper and lower angles. This is one of the most important of the muscles which regu- late the movements of the scapula; it draws the scapula forwards — and thus gives additional reach to the arm ; it counteracts all forces which tend to push the scapula backwards; for instance, when a man falls forwards upon his hands, the serratus magnus sustains the shock, and prevents the scapula from being driven back to the spine. Supposing the fixed point to be at the scapula, some anatomists ascribe to it the power of raising the ribs; hence Sir Charles Bell called it the external respiratory muscle, as opposed to the internal respiratory muscle, the diaphragm. The nerve which supplies the muscle is a branch of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve: it descends along its outer surface fnaffe 206). Now divide the serratus magnus near the scapula, and remove the arm by sawing through the middle of the clavicle, and cutting through the axillary vessels and nerves. These should subsequentlyMUSCLES or THE SHOULDER. 252 be tied to the coracoid process. After the removal of the arm, the precise insertion of the preceding muscles into the scapula should be carefully examined. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OP THE SHOULDER. Cutaneous "^^^ outaneous nerves of the shoulder are derived nerves of the partly from the branches of the cervical plexus which sliouldei. descend over the acromion (page 3), and partly from the circumflex nerve, of -which one or two branches turn round the posterior border of the deltoid; others perforate the muscle, each accompanied by a small artery. The thin layer of fascia upon the surface of the deltoid extends from the strong aponeurosis covering the muscles on the back of the scapula, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It dips down between the fibres of the muscle, dividing it into large bundles. The great muscle which covers the shoulder-joint is Deltoid. j^a,nied deltoid, from its resemblance to the Greek A reversed. It arises from the external third of the clavicle, from the acromion, and from the spine of the scapula down to the triangular surface at its root. This origin, which corresponds to the insertion of the trapezius, is tendinous and fleshy everywhere, except at the commencement of the spine of the scapula, where it is simply tendinous, and connected with the infra-spinous aponeurosis. The muscvilar fibres descend, the anterior backwards, the posterior forwards, the middle perpendicularly; all converge to a tendon which is inserted into a rough surface on the outer side of the humerus, a little above the middle of the shaft. The insertion of the tendon extends one inch and a half along the humerus, and terminates in a v-shaped form, the origin of the brachialis anticus being on either side. The muscular bundles composing the deltoid have a very pecu- liar arrangement: a peculiarity arising from its broad origin and its narrow insertion. It consists in the interposition of tendons beMUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. 25^ Fig. 47. tween the bundles for the attachment of the muscular fibres. The annexed woodcut shows this beautiful arrangement better than any description. The action of the muscle is not only concentrated upon one point, but its power is also greatly increased, by this arrangement. It raises the arm; but it cannot do so to a greater the ddtoid. ^^^^J degrees. The elevation of the arm beyond this angle, is effected through the elevation of the shoulder by means of the trapezius and serratus magnus. Its anterior fibres draw the arm forwards; its posterior, backwards. This powerful muscle is well sup- plied with blood, by the anterior and posterior circumflex, the tho- racica humeraria, the thoracica acromialis, all from the axillary artery; also by the deltoid branch of the brachial. Its nerve is the circumflex. The deltoid gives the rotundity to the shoulder. When the head of the humerus is dislocated into the axilla, the fibres of the muscle rrm vertically to their insertion; hence the flattening of the deltoid, and the gi-eater prominence of the acromion. It is just below the deltoid that we generally meet with ununited fragmlnt''^ ^"^^ ' '^"'''^^ ""^'''"^ the upper Eeflect the deltoid from its origin. Observe the ramifications of the circumflex artery and nerve, on its under surface; also the lar^e bursa between it and the head of the humerus. See how the muscle protects the shoulder-joint; how it covers the coraco-acromial li^a! rnent, the head, neck and upper part of the humerus, as welf as the tendons inserted into the greater tuberosity. ANALYSIS OP THE DELTOID.MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDEK. 254 A bursa of large size is situated between the deltoid, tiiTdelS'^ and the bead of the humerus. It extends for some ^ ^ ' distance beneath the acromion and the coraco-acromial ligament, and covers the great tuberosity of the humerus. I have seen it communicating by a wide opening Avith the shoulder-jomt, but this is a rare exception. Its use is to facilitate the movements of the head of the bone under the acromial arch, -r, , . This arterv is given off from the axillary: it runs be- Poftenor jo circumflex hind the surgical neck of the humerus, through a quaan- lateral opening, bounded above by the subscapularis, below by the teres major, externally by the neck of the humerus, and internally by the long head of the triceps (p. 210). Its branches terminate on the under surface of the deltoid, anastomosing with the anterior circuhiflex and acromial thoracic arteries. From the posterior circumflex, a branch descends in the substance of the long head of the triceps, to inosculate with the superior pro- funda : this is one of the channels through which the circulation would be carried on, if the axillary were tied in the last part of its course. This nerve, a branch of the axillary plexus, runs with Circumflex ^-^^ posterior circumflex artery. It sends a branch to the teres minor, one or two to the integuments of the shoulder, and terminates in the substance of the deltoid. The proximity of this nerve to the head of the humerus explains the occasional occurrence of paralysis of the deltoid, after a dislocation or fracture of the humerus. The nerve is apt to be injured, if not actually lacerated by the pressure of the bone. In the summer of 1840 a man was admitted into the hospital with a severe injury to the shoulder and died of delirium tremens. On exammation- the humerus was found broken high up, the capsule of the joint opened and the circumflex nerve torn completely across.* The muscles on the dorsum of the scapula are covered by a strong aponeurosis, which is firmly attached to the spine and bor- ders of the bone. At the posterior edge of the deltoid, it divides * See preparation in Museum of St. Bartholomews Hospital, series 3, number 42.255 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. into two layers, one of which passes over, the other under, the muscle. Eemove the aponeurosis from the muscles, so far as it can be done without injury to the muscular fibres which arise frofa its under surface. This muscle mnses from the greater part of the infra- nSit'^'' scapular fossa. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is at first contained in the substance of the muscle, and then proceeds over the capsule of the shoulder-joint, to be inserted into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Teres minor. ™^ ^^^^ narrow muscle is situated below the infi-a- spinatus, along the inferior border of the scapula. It arises from the dorsum of the scapula, close to the inferior border. The fibres ascend parallel with those of the infi-a-spinatus, and terminate in a tendon, which passes over the capsule of the shoulder- joint,^ and is inserted into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Some of the fibres of the muscle are attached directly into the bone. It is supplied by a branch of the circumflex nerve. The action of the infra-spinatus and teres minor is to rotate the humerus outwards. Teres major. "^'^'^^^ i« ^^o^ely connected with the latissimus dorsi, and extends from the inferior angle of the scapula to the humerus, contributing to form the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the flat surface at the inferior angle of the back of the scapula, and terminates upon a flat tendon, two inches m breadth, which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, behind the tendon of the latissimus dorsi (p. 210). Its act%on is to draw the humerus backwards. By dissecting between the two tendons, you will find that they are separated by a bursa. Supra- ""'^'"^^ ™' posterior two-thii-ds of spinatus. supra-spmous fossa, and from its aponeurotic cover /^g- It passes underneath the acromion, over the shouldei--.ioint, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the greater uberosity of the humerus. To obtain a good view of its in.ertbn the acromion should be sawn off near the neck of the scapuh Tt^ action is to assist the deltoid in raising the arm ^256: ■ MUSCLES or the shoulder'. This muscle occupies the subscapular fossa. It arises Subscapu- from the posterior three-fourths of the fossa, from three or four tendinous septa attached to the oblique ridges on its surface. The fibres converge towards the neck of the scapula, where they terminate upon three or four tendons, which are concealed amongst the muscular fibres, and are inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Its broad insertion is closely connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint, which it com- pletely protects upon its inner side. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. The nerve which supplies it is derived from the great cord, which gives off the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. The coracoid process, with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, form an arch, under which the tendon of the sub- scapularis plays.' There are several bursa} about the tendon. There is one of considerable size on the upper surface of the tendon, to facilitate its motion beneath the coracoid process and the coraco-brachialis: this sometimes communicates with the large bursa under the deltoid. Another is situated between the tendon and the capsule of the joint, and almost invariably commu- nicates with it. Now reflect the muscles from the surfaces of the scapula, to trace the arteries which ramify upon the bone. This artery, a branch of the thyroid axis, runs under tbnofsum-a- and parallel with the clavicle, and passes above, or, less scapular frequently, through the notch of the scapula, into the supra-spinal fossa: it sends a branch to the supra- spinatus, another to the shoulder-joint, and then descends over the neck of the scapula into the fossa below the spine where it inos- culates directly with the dorsalis scapula. Its branches ramify, upon the bone, and supply the infra-spinatus and teres mmor The supra-scapular nerve passes most frequently through the notch of the scapula, accompanies the corresponding artery, and supplies the supra and infra-spinatus. . - The dorsal branch of the sub-scapular artery (dorsalis fcjS scapula), passes backwards through a triangular space ^'"""y- bounded , superiorly by the subscapulans, mferioriy Dy257 TKICEPS. the teres major, and in front by the long head of the triceps (p. 210). Having reached the dorsum of the scapula, it ascends, close to the bone, and anastomoses with the supra-scapular artery. The frequent communications about the scapula, between the branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries, would furnish a free current of blood to the arm if the subclavian were tied above the clavicle. (See fig. 7, p. 45.) Triceps ex- This muscle, which was only partially seen in the dis- Subiti section of the upper arm (p. 210), should now be more fully examined. The long head arises immediately below the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a strong tendon which is connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The second or external head anses from the posterior part of the humerus, below the insertion of the teres minor; the third or internal head arises from the posterior part of the humerus below the teres major. The precise origin of these heads from the hu- merus may be ascertained by following the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve, which intervene between them. The three portions of the muscle terminate upon a broad tendon, which covers the back of the elbow-joint, and is inserted into the summit and sides of the olecranon; it is also connected with the fascia on the back of the fore-arm. The reason of this connection is, that the same muscle which extends the fore-arm may at the same time tighten the fascia which gives origin to the extensors of the wrist and fingers. This is just what we observed in the case of the biceps, and its semilunar expansion in the fascia of the forearm. Between the tendon and olecranon is placed a bursa, commonly of small size, but sometimes so large as to extend upwards behind the capsule of the joint. You must not confound this bursa with that which is always found between the skin and the olecranon, and is so often injured by a fall on the elbow. By dividing the triceps transversely a little above . the elbow and turning down the lower portion, it will be observed that some of the muscular fibres terminate upon the capsule of the joint They have been described by some anatomists as a distinct muscle imder the name of - subanconeus their use is to draw up the c'apsule258 DISSECTION Ol^ THE BACK OE THE FOREAEM. SO that it may not be injured during extension of the arm. The subanconeus is in this respect analogous to the subcrurseus muscle of the thigh. Observe the bursa under the tendon, and the arterial arch formed upon the back part of the capsule by the superior profunda and the anastomotica magna (fig. 45, p. 218). Trace the continuation of the superior profunda artery (page 218), and musculo-spiral nerve round the posterior part of the humerus. They lie close to the bone, and are protected by an aponeurotic arch thrown over them by the external head of the triceps. Observe that the nerve is here placed between the two principal branches of the artery: therefore in amputation of the arm in this situation, you would have to tie two large arteries, one on each side of the musculo-spiral nerve. Trace the branches given off by the nerve ti each of the three portions of the triceps, and follow the long branch of the superior profunda artery through the substance of the triceps to the olecranon. DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Eemove the skin from the back of the forearm, hand, and fingers. Observe the subcutaneous bursa over the olecranon. It is com- monly of considerable size, and, if distended, would appear nearly as large as a walnut. Another bursa is sometimes found a little lower down upon the ulna. A subcutaneous bursa is generally placed over the internal condyle, another over the external. A bursa is also situated over the styloid process of the uhia; this sometimes communicates with the sheath of the extensor carpi nlnaris. Small burscB are sometimes developed m the cellular tissue over each of the knuckles. The cutaneous veins from the back of the hand and forearm ioin the venous plexus at the bend of the elbow (see p. 212). They are the external cutaneous branches oi the Cutaneous musculo-spiral nerve, branches of the internal cutaneous S'oflhl" nerve, and of the external cutaneous. The greater forearm and ^^^^^ber of these nerves maybe traced down to the back hand. of the wrist.DISSECTION OF THE BACK OE THE POKEARM. 259 The skin on the back of the hand is united to the subjacent tendons by an abundance of loose connective tissue, in which we find lai-ge veins, and branches of the radial and ulnar nerve. The dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve passes beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, over the internal lateral ligament of the wrist; and divides upon the back of the hand into filaments, which supply the back of the little finger, the ring finger, and the ulnar side of the middle finger. The radial nerve passes obliquely beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and subdivides into branches, which supply both sides of the back of the thumb and fore-finger, and the radial side of the middle finder.* The fascia on the back of the fore-arm is composed of fibres in- terlacing in various directions, and is stronger than that upon the front of the forearm. It is attached to the two condyles of the humerus and to the olecranon, and is strengthened by an expansion from the tendon of the triceps. Along the forearm it is attached to the ridge on the posterior part of the ulna. Its upper third gives origin to the fibres of the muscles beneath it, and separates them by septa, to which their fibres are also attached. Posterior ^^^^ should not be considered as a distinct ligament, Hgam^t ^""^ ^ ^ P^"* f^^^i*^ of forearm, strengthened by oblique aponeurotic fibres on the back of the wrist to confine the extensor tendons. These fibres are firmly attached to the styloid process of the radius, and thence pass obHquely inwards to the inner side of the wrist, where they are connected with the pisiform and unciform bones. Observe that they pass below the styloid process of the ulna, to which they are in no way attached, otherwise the rotation of the radius would be impeded. From the deep surface of this, so-called ligament, processes are * The relative share which the radial and ulnar nerves take in supplying the fingers s not the same :n all cases. Under any arrangement the thumb and each finder ha two dorsal ne:^es, one on either side, of which the terminal branches reach the roo of the nad. They supply filaments to the skin on the back of the finger and hrve frequent communications mth the palmar digital nerves In 7' more of the dorsal nerves do not extend beyoni tt S Vaux . .^T T'" ° H " suppUed by a branch from the palmar nerve. ^ ' ^'"'^ s 2260 DISSECTION 01^ THE BACK OE THE EOREAKM. attached to the ridges on the back of the radius, so as to form six distinct sheaths for the passage of the extensor tendons. Counting from the radius towards the ulna, the first sheath contains the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and the extensor primi internodii pollicis ; the second contains the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior; the third contains the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis; the fourth contains the tendons of the indicator and the extensor communis digitorum; the fifth contains the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti; and the sixth, the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. All the sheaths are lined by synovial membranes, to facilitate the play of the tendons. In a few instances, one or more of them communicate •with the wrist-joint. The fascia of the metacarpus consists of a thin fibrous layer, continued from the posterior annular ligament. It separates the extensor tendons from the subcutaneous veins and nerves, and is attached to the radial side of the second metacarpal bone, and the ulnar side of the fifth. „ „ . T The fascia must be removed from the muscles, so far miiscles on as this can be done without mjurmg the muscular hbres the forearm which arise from its under surface. Preserve the pos- terior annular ligament. The following muscles are now exposed, and should be examined in the order in which they* are placed, proceeding from the radial to the ulnar side of the fore- arm : — 1. The supinator radii longus (already described, p. 227). 2. The extensor carpi radialis longior. 3. The extensor carpi radi- alis brevior. 4. The extensor communis digitorum. 5. The extensor minimi digiti. 6. The extensor carpi ulnaris. 7. The anconeus. A little below the middle of the forearm, the extensors of the • wrist and fingers diverge from each other, leaving an interval, in which are seen the three extensors of the thumb—the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The two former cross the radial extensors of the wrist, and pass over the lower third of the radius. Between the second and third extensors of the thumb, we observeDISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 261 a part of the lower end of the radius, which is not covered either by muscle or tendon. Tliis subcutaneous portion of the bone is immediately above the prominent tubercle in the middle of its lower extremity, and, since it can be easily felt through the skin, it pre- sents a convenient place for examination in doubtful cases of fractm'e. Extensor This muscle is partly covered by the supinator radii auSon'Jor. ^^^^^^^ of tlie ridge leading to the external condyle of the humerus, descends along the outer side of the forearm, and terminates about the middle, in a flat tendon, which passes beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis, traverses a groove on the outer and back part of the radius, lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the mdex finger. Previously to its insertion, the tendon is crossed by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. Extensor This muscle arises from the external condyle. The carpi nidiaHs muscular fibres terminate near the middle of the fore- arm, upon the under surface of a flat tendon, which descends, covered by that of the extensor carpi radialis longior, beneath the first two extensors of the thumb. The tendon traverses a groove on the back of the radius, on the same plane with that of the long radial extensor, but lined by a separate synovial membrane and IS ^nserted into the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. A bursa is generally found between the tendon and the bone. Extensor This muscle arises from the common tendon attached tSZ7s. ^? '^^^ fro^ the septa between it and _ the contiguous muscles, and from its strong fascial covering. About the middle of the forearm the muscle divides into three or four fleshy slips, terminating in as many flat tendons which, pass beneath the posterior annular ligament, throuah a !ZT r f f 1'^' ^^^^^ ^y^^^'-^l --brane. On the back of the hand they become broader and flatter, and diverge from each other towards the metacarpal joints of the fingers, where they become thicker and narrower, and give off on etch side a S3262 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OP THE EOREAKM. fibrous expansion, which covers the sides of the joint. Over the first phalanx of the finger, each'tendon again spreads out, receives the expanded tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles, and divides at the second phalanx into three portions, of which the middle is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx; the two lateral, reuniting over the lower end of the second phalanx, are inserted into the upper end of the third.* Observe the oblique aponeurotic slips which connect the tendons on the back of the hand. They are subject to great variety. The tendon of the index finger is commonly free ; it is situated on the radial side of the proper indicator tendon, and becomes united with it at the metacarpal joint. The tendon of the middle usually receives a slip from that of the ring fingen. The tendon of the ring finger generally sends a slip to the tendons on either side of it, and in some cases entirely furnishes the tendon of the little finger. It is not only a general extensor of the fingers, but it can extend some of the phalanges independently of the rest: e.g. it can extend the first phalanges while the second and third are flexed; or it can extend the second and third phalanges diuing flexion of the first. This long slender muscle arises from the common Extensor tendon from the external condyle, from the septa be- niSfor' tween it and the contiguous muscles. Its slender auricdaris. ^^^^^^ ^^^^ beneath the annular ligament immediately behind the joint between the radius and ulna, in a special sheath lined by synovial membrane. At the first joint of the little finger, the tendon is joined by that of the common extensor, and both expand upon the first and second phalanges, termmatmg m the same manner as the extensor tendons of the other fingers. , This muscle arises from the common tendon from tlie external condyle, from the septum between it and the ex- tensor minimi digiti, and from the aponeurosis of the fore- nans. * The extensor tendons are only inserted into the periosteum, -^^^^ f tendons are inserted into the substance of the bone. This accounts the facimy ^th which the former will tear off the bones in cases of necrosis, while the latter wui adhere so tightly as to require cutting before the phalanx can be removed.DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOEEAEM. 263 ai-m. The fibres terminate upon a strong broad tendon, which tra- verses a distinct groove on the back of the ulna, close to the styloid process, and is inserted into the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Below the styloid process of the ulna, the tendon passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, over the back of the wrist, and is here contained in a very strong fibrous canal, which is attached to the back of the cuneiform, pisiform, and unciform bones, and is lined by a continuation from the synovial membrane in the groove of the ulna. The action of this muscle is to extend the hand, and incline it towards the ulnar side. In pronation of the forearm, the lower end of the ulna projects between the tendons of the extensor carpi ulnaris and the extensor minimi digiti. A subcutaneous bursa- is sometimes found above the bone in this situation. Anconeus "^^^^ ^^^^^ triangular muscle is situated at the outer and back part of the elbow. It is covered by a strong layer of fascia, derived from the tendon of the triceps, and appears like a continuation of that muscle. It arises tendinous from the posterior part of the external condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the triangular surface on the upper fourth of the outer part of the ulna. Part of the under surface of the muscle is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. Its action is to assist in extending the forearm. Deep seated ^^tach from the external condyle the extensor carpi muscles on radialis brevier, the extensor digitorum communis, the tteforiS. extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. Preserve the vessels and nerves which enter their under surface. The deep-seated muscles now exposed are,—1. The supinator radii brevis; 2. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 3. Ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis; 4. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis; 5. Extensor proprius indicis or indicator. Supinator ^ embraces the upper third of the radius, radii brevis. It arises from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint, from the annular ligament surrounding the head of the radius, from an oblique ridge on the outer surface of the ulna below the msertion of the anconeus, and by fleshy fibres from a tri (3 4264 DISSECTION or THE BACK OP THE FOREARM. angular excavation below the lesser sigmoid notcli of the ulna. The muscular fibres turn over the neck and upper part of the shaft of the radius, and are inserted into the upper third of this bone, as far forwards as the ridge leading from the tubercle to the insertion of the pronator teres. The muscle is perforated obliquely by the deep branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and its upper part is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. It is a powerful supinator of the fore- arm, some of its fibres acting at nearly a right angle to the axis of the radius. This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the Sis meta- ulua below the supinator brevis, from the posterior carpi pol- surface of the radius, and from the interosseous ligament. The muscle crosses the radial extensors of the wrist about three inches above the carpus, and terminates in a tendon, which passes along a groove, lined by synovial membrane, on the outer part of the lower end of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the prtmi'in- radius, from the interosseous ligament, and from the teruodii ulna. It tums over the radial extensors of the wiist, and polUcis. terminates upon a tendon which passes beneath the an- nular ligament, through the groove on the outer part of the radius, and is "inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the thumb. Arises from the posterior surface of the ulna, and SmKu"" from the interosseous ligament. The tendon receives internodii fleshy fibres as low as the wrist, passes beneath the poUicis. ^^^^^i^y. ligament in a distinct groove on the back of the radius, proceeds over the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons of the three extensors of the thumb may be easily distinguished in one's own hand. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, cross obliquely over the radial artery, where it lies on the external lateral ligament of the carpus; the extensor secundi internodii pollicis crosses the artery just before itDISSECTION OF THE BACK OE THE FOREARM. 265 sinks into the palm, between the first and second metacarpal bones, and is a good guide to the vessel. The action of the three ex- tensors of the thumb is implied by their names. Extensor ^his muscle aHses from the posterior surface of the indieis, or ulna, and from the interosseous ligament. The tendon indicator. , , . , passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, in the same groove on the back of the radius with the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis. It then proceeds over the back of the hand to the first phalanx of the index finger, where it is united to the ulnar border of the common extensor tendon. By the action of this muscle, the index finger can be extended independently of the others. Posterior ^his artery comes from the ulnar by a common trunk interosseous with the anterior interosseous (p. 218), and supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. It passes between the radius and ulna above the interosseous membrane, and appears between the supinator radii brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. After supplying branches to all the muscles in this situation, the artery descends, much diminished in size, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles to the wrist, where it inoscu- lates with the carpal branches of the anterior interosseous and those of the radial and ulnar arteries. But the largest branch of this artery is the recurrent. It ascends beneath the anconeus muscle to the space between the external condyle and the olecranon, where it inosculates with the branch of the superior profunda, which descends in the substance of the triceps. In the lower part of the back of the fore-arm, a branch of the anterior interosseous artery is seen passing through the interosseous membrane, to reach the back of the wrist (see p. 232). Posterior The nerve which supplies the muscles on the back of mterosseous the forearm is the posterior interosseous, a branch of _ the musculo-spiral. It passes obliquely throuo-h the supmator radn brevis, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles on the back of the forearm, sending o e"h a filament, generally in company with a branch of the posterior266 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOKEARM. interosseous artery. It sends a branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevier, and supplies the supinator brevis in passing through its substance. The supinator radii longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by distinct branches from the musculo- spiral. The continuation of the posterior interosseous nerve descends beneath the tendons of the extensor digitorura communis to the back of the wrist. In this situation the nerve forms a kind of wano-liform enlargement, from which filaments are sent to the carpal and metacarpal joints. Trace the continuation of the radial artery over the St onThe external lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath the back of the extensor tendons of the thumb, to the upper part of the interval between the first and second metacarpal bones, where it sinks between the origin of the abductor indicis muscle, and entering the palm, forms the deep palmar arch. In this part of its course it is crossed by filaments of the radial nerve ; observe, also that the tendon of the extensor secundi internodu pollicis passes over it immediately before it sinks into the palm. It sup- plies the following small branches to the back of the hand: - a Posterior cm^al artery/.—This branch passes across the carpal bones, beneath the extensor tendons. It inosculates with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery, and sometimes mth a corresponding branch from the ulnar artery. The carpal artery sends off small branches, called the dorsal interosseous, which descend along the third and fourth interosseous spaces, beneath the extensor tendons, inosculating near the carpal ends of the meta- carpal bones with the perforating branches from the deep palmai h ' The dorsal interosseous artery of the second space is generally larger than the others. It descends over the second .^or^al inter- osseous muscle to the cleft between the middle fingers and terminates in small branches, some of which proceed along the back of the fingers, others inosculate with the palmar digital arteries. „ i r,f c. The dorsalinterosseousartmnj of the first space, otDISSECTION OF THE BACK OF TITE FOREARM. 267 variable size, passes over the first interosseous muscle to the radial side of the back of the index finger. d. The dorsal arteries of the thumb are two small branches which arise from the radial opposite the head of the first metacarpal bone, and run along the back of the thumb, one on either side. They are often absent. These dorsal interosseous arteries silpply the extensor tendons and their sheaths, the interosseous muscles, and the skin on the back of the hand, and the first phalanges of the fingers. Now remove the tendons from the back and from the palm of the hand : observe the deep palmar fascia which covers the inter- osseous muscles. It is attached to the ridges of the metacarpal bones, forms a distinct sheath for each interosseous muscle, and is continuous inferiorly with the transverse metacarpal ligament. On the back of the hand the interosseous muscles are covered by a thin fascia, which is attached to the adjacent borders of the meta- carpal bones. Transverse This consists of strong bands of ligamentous fibres, ligamT^*^^ which pass transversely between the digital extremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers. These bands are intimately united to the fibro-cartilaginous ligament of the metacarpal joints, and are of sufficient length to admit of a cer- tain degree of movement between the ends of the metacarpal bones. Eemove the fascia which covers the interosseous muscles, and separate the metacarpal bones by dividing the transverse meta- carpal ligament. A bursa is frequently developed between their digital extremities. These muscles, so named from their position, extend Slsder"'^^ ^^'^"^ ^^^^s of metacarpal bones to the first pha - langes and the extensor tendons of the fingers. In each interosseous space there are two, one of which is an abductor, the other an adductor of a finger. According to this arrangement there are eight in all, inclusive of the adductor pollicis, which is really an interosseous muscle: four of which, situated on the back of the hand, are called dorsal; the remainder, seen only in the palm, are called palmar.INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. 268 Each dorsal interosseous muscle arises from the opposite Dorsal in- g-^jgg of two metacarpal boues (fiff. 48). From this double ttiX*0SS60\lS \ o ' origin the fibres converge to a tendon, which passes between the metacarpal joints of the lingers, and is inserted into the side of the first phalanx: it is also connected by a broad expansion with the extensor tendon on. the back of the finger. The first dorsal interosseous muscle (abductor indicis) is larger than the others, and occupies the interval between the thumb and fore-finger. It arises from the upper half of the ulnar side of the DIAGEAM OF THE FOUB DOBSAl IN- DIAGEAM OF THE FOUB PAXMAK IX- TEROSSEI, DEAWIKG FROM THE TEHOSSEI, DBAWG TOWABDS THE MEDDLE LINE. MTDDLE LINE. first metacarpal bone, and from the entire length of the radial side of the second: between the two origins, the radial artery passes into the palm. Its fibres converge on either side to a tendon, which is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the index finger and its extensor tendon. The second dorsal interosseous muscle occupies the second meta- carpal space.. It is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the middle finger and its extensor tendon.12STEKOSSEOUS MUSCLES. 269 The third and fourth, occupying the corresponding metacarpal spaces, are inserted, the one into the ulnar side of the middle, the other into the ulnar side of the ring finger. If an imaginary line be drawn longitudinally through the middle finger, as represented by the dotted line in fig, 48 we shall find that all the dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors from that line; consequently, they separate the fingers from each other. Palmar i I'equires a careful examination to distinguish this set teroTseo^." muscles, because the dorsal muscles protrude with them into the palm. They are smaller than the dorsal, and each arises from the lateral surface of only one metacarpal bone, that, namely, connected with the finger into which the muscle is inserted (fig. 49). They terminate in small tendons, which pass between the metacarpal joints of the fingers, and ai-e inserted, like the dorsal muscles, into the sides of the first phalanges and the extensor tendons on the back of the fingers. The first palmar interosseous muscle arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the index finger. The second and third arise, the one from the radial side of the fourth, the other from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and are inserted into the same sides of the ring and little fingers. The fourth interosseous muscle is the adductor poUicis. The palmar interosseous muscles are all adductors to an imaoi- nary hne drawn through the middle finger (fig. 49) They are therefore, the opponents of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and move the fingers towards each other. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. ,Too.T .E- ^""^ ^^^^^^^ articulates with a shallow T^.-EEN THE excavatiou on the upper and outer part of the sternum ' '''' f ^ °f -^-ticular surfaces of the bones, il STEBNUM. plain that the security of the joint must depend unon the strength of its ligaments. There are two synovial membranes, and an intervening fibro-cartilage.LIGAMENTS OF THE CLAVICLE. 270 The anterior- sterno-clavicular ligament (fig. 50), consists of a broad band of ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely downwards and inwards over the front of the joint, from the end of the clavicle to the anterior surface of the sternum. Kg. 50. DIAGEAM or THE STEHNO-CLAVICUIAE LIGAMENTS. 1. Interclavicular ligament. 2. Anterior sterno-clavicular ligament. 3. Costo-clavicular ligament. 4. Interarticular fibro-caxtilage. A similar band, called the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, extends over the back of the joint, from the back of the clavicle to the back of the sternum. The clavicles are connected by the inter-clavicular ligament. It extends transversely above the notch of the sternum, and has a broad attachment to the upper border of each clavicle. Between the clavicles it is more or less attached to the sternum, so that it forms a curve with the concavity upwards. The three ligaments just described are so closely connected, that, collectively, they form a complete fibrous capsule of great strength for the joint. , , ., , A ligament, called the costo-clavicular or rhomboid, connects the clavicle to the cartilage of the first rib. It ascends from the cartilage of the rib to a rough surface beneath the sternal end ot the clavicle. Its use is to limit the elevation of the clavicle. There is such constant movement between the clavicle and the cartilage271 LIGAMENTS OF THE CLA.VICLE. of the first rib, that a well-marked bursa is commonly found between them. Inter-articular fibro-cartilage.—In order to see this we must cut through the rhomboid, the anterior and posterior ligaments of the joint, and then raise the clavicle. It is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the circumference than the centre, in which there is sometizues a perforation. Inferiorly, it is attached to the cartilage of the first rib, close to the sternum ; superiorly, to the upper part of the clavicle and the inter-clavicular ligament. Its circumference is inseparably connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint. The.joint is provided with two synovial membranes: one is placed between the articular surface of the sternum and the inner surface of the fibro-cartilage; the other, between the articular surface of the clavicle and the outer sm-face of the fibro-cartilage. This interarticular fibro-cartilage is a structure highly elastic, without admitting of any stretching. It equalises pressure, pre- vents shocks, and also acts as a ligament, preventing the clavicle from being driven inwards towards the mesial line. Observe the relative form of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones: that of the sternum is slightly concave in the transverse, and convex in the antero-posterior direction; that of the clavicle is the reverse. The form of the articular surfaces and the ligaments of a joint being known, it is easy to understand the movements of which it is capable. The clavicle can move upon the sternum in a direction either vertical or horizontal: thus it admits of circumduction. These movements, though very limited at the sternum, become very considerable at the apex of the shoulder. coKNECTioN, .^^^ clavicle articulates with the acro- OF THE CLA- miou, aud is connected by strong ligaments to the ™™A. Process of the scapula. Joint between the acromion and the clavicle. The clavicle and the acromion articulate with each other by means of two flat oval cartilaginous surfaces, of which the planes slant inwards, and the greater diameters are in the antero-posterior direction.LIGAMENTS OF THE CLAVICLE. The superior ligament, ca broad band of ligamentous fibres, strengthened by the aponeurosis of the trapezius, extends from the upper surface of the acromion to the upper surface of the clavicle. The inferior ligament, of less strength, extends along the under surface of the joint from bone to bone. An inter-articular fibro-cartilage is sometimes foimd in this joint: but it is incomplete, and seldom extends lower than the upper half. There is only one synovial membrane. Goraco-clavicular ligament — The clavicle is connected to the coracoid process of the scapula by two strong ligaments—the conoid and trapezoid, which, being continuous with each other, might fairly be considered as one. The trapezoid ligament is the move anterior. It arises from the back part of the coracoid pro- cess, and ascends obliquely outwards to the clavicle, near its outer end. The conoid ligament is fixed at its apex to the root of the coracoid process, ascends vertically, and is attached by its base to the clavicle, near the posterior border. Eemember that when the clavicle is fractured in the line of the attachment of the coraco- clavicular ligament, there is no displacement of the fractured ends ; these being kept in place by the ligament itself. Ligaments proper to the scapula.—There are only two: the coracoid ligament, which is attached to the margins of the supra- scapular notch, and the coraco-acromial or triangular ligament, which is attached by its apex to the acromion, and by its base to the outer border of the coracoid process. It is separated from the upper part of the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a large bursa. The articular surface of the head of the humerus, form- Shouxdeb- ijjg rather more than one-third of a sphere, moves upon the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, which is of an oval form, with the broader end downwards, and n^he long diameter nearly vertical. It is obvious that the security of the joint does not depend upon any mechanical contrivance of the bones, but upon the great strength and number of the tendons which surround it. To admit the free motion of the head of the humerus upon t le glenoid cavity, it is requisite that the capsular ligament of theSHOULDER-JOINT. 273 joint be very loose and capacious. Accordingly we find that the head of the bone, when detached from its muscular connections, may be separated from the glenoid cavity to the extent of an inch, or even more, without laceration of the capsule. This explains the elongation of the arm observed in some cases in which effusion has taken place into the cavity of the joint; also in some cases of paralysis of the deltoid muscle. The capsular ligament is attached, above, round the circum- ference of the glenoid cavity; and below, round the surgical neck of the humerus. It is strengthened on its upper and posterior part by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles; its inner part is strengthened by the broad tendon of the subscapularis, and its lower part by the long head of the triceps. Thus the circumference of the capsule is surrounded by . tendons on every side, excepting a small space towards the axilla. If the humerus be raised, it will be found that the head of the bone rests upon this unprotected portion of the capsule; that is, between the tendons of the subscapularis and the long head of the triceps; and through this part of the capsule the head of the bone usually protrudes in dislocations into the axilla. At the upper and inner side of the joint, a small opening {fora- men ovale) is observable in the capsular ligament, through which the tendon of the subscapularis passes, and comes in contact with the synovial membrane. The upper surface of the capsule is, moreover, strengthened by a strong band of ligamentous fibres, called the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament. It is attached to the root of the coracoid process, expands over the upper surface of the capsule, with which it is inseparably imited, and is fixed into the greater tuberosity of the humenis. Open the capsule to see the tendon of the long head of the biceps. It enters the joint through the groove between the two tuberosities, becomes slightly flattened, and passes over the head of the bone to be attached to the upper border of the crJenoid cavity. It IS loose and moveable within the joint; and^t acts like a strap, keeping down the head of the bone. In some cases274 ELBOW-JOINT. the tendon having been ruptured by violence, has contracted an adhesion to the bicipital groove. The tendon of the biceps does not perforate the synovial mem- brane of the joint. It is enclosed in a kind of tubular sheath, ■which is reflected over it at its attachment to the glenoid cavity, and accompanies it for two inches down the groove of the humerus. During the earlier part of foetal life it is connected to the capsule by a fold of synovial membrane, which subsequently disappears. The margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula is surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous band of considerable thickness, called the glenoid ligament. This not only enlarges the cavity but renders it a little deeper. Superiorly, it is continuous on either side with the tendon of the biceps ; inferiorly, with the tendon of the triceps: in the rest of its circumference it is attached to the edge of the cavity. Observe that the cartilage covering the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The reverse is the case in the glenoid cavity. The synovial membrane lining the under surface of the capsule is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and passes with it in the form of a cul-de-sac, down the bicipital groove. On the inner side of the joint it always communicates with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The shoulder-joint has a more extensive range of motion than any other joint in the body; it is, in fact, a kind of universal joint. It is capable of motion forwards and backwards; of adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. The elbow-joint is a perfect hinge. The larger sigmoid Elbo^- cavity of the ulna is adapted to the trochlea upon the lower end of the humerus, admitting of simple flexion and exten- sion • while the shallow excavation upon the head of the radius admits not only of flexion and extension, but also of rotation upon the rounded articular eminence {capitellum) of the humerus. The joint is secured by two strong lateral ligaments. No ligament is attached to the head of the radius, otherwise its rotatory move- ment would be impeded. It is simply surrounded by a liga-ELBOW-JOINT. 275 mentous collar, called the annular ligament, within whicli it freely rolls. Intei^ial lateral ligament — This is triangular. Its apex is attached to the internal condyle of the humerus : from this point the fibres radiate, and are inserted into the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna. A transverse band of ligamentous fibres extends from the ole- cranon to the coronoid process, across a notch observable on the inner side of the sigmoid cavity: through this notch vessels pass into the joint. External lateral ligament. —This is attached to the external condyle of the humerus ; the fibres spread out as they descend, and are interwoven with the annular ligament, surrounding the head of the radius. Fig. 51. a. External lateral ligament. b. Orbicular ligament. c. Internal lateral ligament. d. Radius, removed from its ring. LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW. _ The orhcular or annular ligament of the radius (fio- 51) IS attached to the anterior and the posterior border of the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. With this cavity, it forms a compi; collar, which encircles the head and part of the neck of the radius T 55ELBOW-JOINT. 276 The lower part of the collar is narrower than the upper, in order to fit the neck of the radius, and maintain it more accurately in its position. Some anatomists speak of an anterior and a posterior ligament for the elbow-joint. But what they describe as ligaments consists merely of a few thin ligamentous fibres spread over the capsule of the joint in front and behind. There is no need of ligaments to limit flexion and extension in this joint: for the coronoid process limits the one, and the olecranon the other. The preceding ligaments collectively form a continuous capsule for the elbow-joiat. Synovial membrane of the elbow-joint.—Open the joint by a transverse incision through the anterior ligament, and observe the relative adaptation of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, and forms a cul-de-sac between the head of the radius and its orbicular ligament. It is widest and most loose under the tendon of the triceps. Where the membrane is reflected from the bones upon the ligaments, there is more or less adipose tissue, particularly in the fossse on the front and back part of the lower end of the humerus. This is an aponeurotic septum, which is stretched Hg^ment o^f between the bones of the fore-arm, and of which the membrane, ^j^.^^ purpose is to afford an increase of surface for the attachment of muscles. The septum is deficient above, in order to permit free rotation of the radius. Its fibres extend obHquely downwards from the radius to the ulna. The name of round or oblique ligament is given to a thin band of ligamentous fibres, which extends obHquely between the bones of the fore-arm in a direction contrary to those of the interosseous membrane. It is attached, superiorly, to the front surface of the ulna, near the outer side of the coronoid process; inferiorly, to the radius immediately below the tubercle. A bursa intervenes between it and the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. The use of this ligament is to limit supination of the radius.277 WRIST-JOINT. Radio-car- ^^^^ J^^"^* formed by the lower end of the radius, PAi OB which articulates with the scaphoid and semilunar bones of the cai-pus: the lower end of the ulna is excluded from the joint by a triangular fibro-cartilage, which articulates with a small portion of the cuneiform bone. The joint is secured by an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral ligaments, forming, together, an uninterrupted capsule around it. The external lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the radius, to the scaphoid bone (p. 278). The internal lateral ligament proceeds from the extremity of the styloid process of the ulna, to the cuneiform bone. Some of its fibres are attached to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament consists of two or more broad bands of ligamentous fibres, which arise from the lower end of the radius, pass obliquely inwards, and are inserted into the fijrst row of carpal bones. The posterior ligament, weaker than the preceding, arises from the posterior surface of the lower end of the radius, descends ob- liquely inwards, and is inserted into the posterior surfaces of the first row of the carpal bones. The synovial membrane lines the triangular fibro-cartilage at the end of the ulna, is reflected over the several ligaments of the joint, and thence upon the first row of the carpal bones. Joint BE- ^"^^^^ Surface of the lower end of the radius ™E^s P'^'^''*' ^ '^'^^^ concavity, which rotates upon the OP THE EA- convex circumference of the lower end of the ulna: Dirrs^AND this mechanism is essential to the pronation and supi- nation of the hand. These corresponding surfaces are crusted with a thin layer of cartilage, and are provided with a very loose synovial membrane. The joint is strengthened in front and behind by a thin fibrous capsule, which extends from the an- terior and posterior borders of the sigmoid cavity of the radius, to the anterior and posterior surfiices of the styloid process of the nlna. But the prmcipal uniting medium between the bones is a strong fibro-cartilage. Fibro-cartilage between the radvus and ulna.~S^y, through T 3WRIST-JOINT. 278 the bones of tbe fore-arm, and separate them by cutting through the interosseous membrane, and opening the synovial membrane of the joint between their lower ends. So you will get a good view of the fibro-cartilage which connects them (fig. 52). It is triangular in Kg. 62. 1. External lateral ligamentt 2. Internal lateral ligament. 3. Interarticular fibro-car- tilage. DIAGEAM OF THE "milST-JOINT. form, and is placed transversely at the lower end of the ulna, fiUmg up the interval caused by the greater length of the radms. Its base is attached to the lower end of the radius, and its apex to the root of the styloid process of the ulna. It is thin at the base and the . centre, thicker at the apex and the sides. Its upper surface is m contact with the ulna, and covered by the synovial membrane of the radio-ulnar joint; its lower surface forming a part of the ^vrist- ioint, corresponds to the cuneiform bone. Its borders axe connected with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist. In some instances there is an aperture in the centre. j 4. H When, from accident or disease, this fibro-cartilage getsdetachea279 INTERCARrAL JOINT. T 4 from the rcidius, the consequence is a preternatural projection of the lower end of the ulna. The synovial membrane of this joint is distinct from that of the wrist, except in the case of a perforation through the fibro-carti- lage. On account of its great looseness, necessary for the free rotation of the radius, it is often called the " memhrana sacci- CoKiTECTioN The bones of the carpus are arranged in two rows, an OF THE CAR- upper aud a lower, adapted to each other, so as to form PAL BOJTES WITH EACH between them a joint, connected by anterior, posteriori OTHEE. internal, and external lateral ligaments. The bones, constituting each row, are united by ligaments placed on their palmar and dorsal surfaces, and by others, placed between the bones, and hence called interosseous. Their contiguous sur- faces (those of the pisiform and cuneiform excepted) are covered by the reflections of one synovial membrane. The upper row is imited by transverse ligaments proceeding from the scaphoid to the semilunar bone, and from the semilunar to the cuneiform, both on their dorsal and palmar surfaces: also by interosseous ligaments, proceeding from the semilunar to the bones on either side of it (fig. 52). The pisiform hone is articulated to the palmar surface of the cuneiform bone, to which it is united by a fibrous capsule. In- feriorly it is attached by two strong ligaments, the one to the unciform bone, the other to the carpal end of the fifth metacarpal bone. This little articulation has a distinct synovial membrane. The lower row of carpal bones is connected precisely in the same way as the upper. The dorsal and palmar ligaments pass transversely from one to the other. There are only two inter- osseous ligaments, one on either side of the os magnum ; they are much thicker and stronger than those of the upper row, and unite the bones more firmly together (fig. 52). The upper row of carpal bones is arranged in the Intebcabpai, f„_™ „f -u J. . , ""tjcu m me of an arch, so as to receive the corresponding con- vex surfaces of the os magnum and unciforme'' Ex- ternally to the OS magnum, the trapezium and trapezoid bones280 CARPAL JOINT OF THE THUMB. present a slightly concave surface, which articulates with the scaphoid. In this way a joint capable of flexion and extension only is formed between the upper and lower row. It is secured by anteri or, posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament consists of strong ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely from the bones of the upper to those of the lower row. The posterior ligament consists of oblique and transverse fibres, which connect the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the upper with the lower row. The lateral ligaments connect, externally, the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally, the cuneiform and unciform bones (fig. 52). Divide the ligaments, in order to see the manner in which the carpal bones articulate with each other. Their surfaces are crusted with cartilage, and provided with a common synovial membrane. This membrane expends, superiorly, between the three bones of the upper row, so as to form two culs-de-sac; inferiorly, it is prolonged into the joint between the carpal and the second and third meta- carpal bones. The trapezium presents a cartilaginous surface, con- Jw^n^'tea- vex in the transverse, and concave in the antero-poste- PBzruM AND . (direction, (i. e. somewhat saddle-shaped), which THE FIRST ±i.\jj- ^ y \ r i.! i- METACARPAi articulates with a cartilaginous surface on ttie meta- carpal bone of the thiimb, concave and convex in just the opposite directions. This peculiar adaptation of the two sur- faces permits the several movements of the thumb, viz., flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction; consequently cii-cumduction. Thus we are enabled to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. The ioint is surrounded by a fibrous capsule sufficiently loose to admit free motion, and stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect. The security of the joint is also increased by the muscles which . surround it. It has a separate synovial membrane. The metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected to SIoIepa. the second row of the carpal bones by ligaments upon JOINTS. ^^g-^ palmar and their dorsal surfaces. The dorsal ligaments are the stronger. The metacarpal bone of the fore-finger has two; one from the trapezium, another from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has also two, proceedmg from the os magnum, and the os trapezoides. That of the nngMETACARPAL JOINTS. 281 finger has also two, proceeding from the os magnum, and the unciform bone. That of the little finger has one only, from the unciform bone. The palmm^ ligaments are arranged nearly upon a similar plan. The metacarpal bone of the forefinger has one, from the trapezoid bone. That of the middle finger has three, proceeding from the trapezium, the os magnum, and the unciform bone. Those of the ring and little fingers have each one, from the unciform bone. Besides the preceding ligaments, there is another of considerable strength, called the interosseous. It arises from the adjacent sides of the OS magnum and the os unciforme, descends vertically, and is fixed into the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger (fig. 52). This ligament isolates the synovial membrane of the two inner metacarpal bones from the common synovial mem- brane of the carpus. Separate the metacarpal bones from the carpus, and observe the relative form of their contiguous surfaces. The metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers are adapted to the carpus in such an angular manner as to be almost immoveable. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger, having a plane articular surface with the unciform bone, admits of more motion. But a still greater degree of motion is permitted between the unciform bone and the meta- carpal bone of the Httle finger ; the articular surfaces of each being slightly concave and convex in opposite directions. The greate? freedom of motion of the metacarpal bone of the little finger is obviously essential to the expansion and contraction of the patm. The carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected with each other by transverse ligaments, both on their dorsal and their palmar siurfaces. They are also connected by interosseous ligaments, which extend between the bones, imme- diately below their contiguous cartilaginous surfaces. The digital extremities of these bones are loosely connected on their palmar aspect by the transverse metacarpal ligament. Synoyiai There are six distinct synovial membrlnes, proper to the lower end of the radius, and the several bones of the ■WBIST. carpus: see the diagram (p. 278).JOINTS OF THE FINGERS. 282 a. One between the lower end of the radius and the ulna. h. One between the radius and the first row of carpal bones. c. One between the trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb. d. One between the cuneiform and pisiform bones. e. One between the first and second rows of carpal bones, (the intercarpal joint). This extends to the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers. /. One between the unciform bone and the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers. FmsT JOINT The first phalanx of the finger presents a shallow OF THE oval cavity, crusted with cartilage, with the broad riNGEEs. (jiametpr in the transverse direction, to articulate with the round cartilaginous head of the metacarpal bone, of which the articular surface is elongated in the antero-posterior direction, and of greater extent on its palmar than its dorsal aspect. This formation of parts permits flexion of the finger to a greater degree than extension; and also a slight lateral movement. Each joint is provided with two strong lateral, and a palmar or glenoid ligament. The lateral Ugaments arise from the tubercles on either side of each metacarpal bone, and inclining slightly forward, are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the finger. The palmar or glenoid ligament. This name is applied to a thick, compact, fibro-cartilaginous structure, which extends over the palmar surface of the joint. Its lower end is firmly attached to the base of the first phalanx of the finger; its upper end is loosely adherent to the rough surface above the head of the meta- carpal bone. On either side it is inseparably connected with the lateral ligaments, so that with them it forms a strong capsule over the front and sides of the joint. Its superficial surface is slightly grooved, to receive the flexor tendons ; its deep surface is adapted to cover the head of the metacarpal bone. Two sesamoid bones are found in the glenoid ligament belonging to the joint between the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb.283 JOINTS OF THE FINGEES. The glenoid ligaments have a surgical importance for the follow- ing reason: — In dislocation of the fingers, the facility of reduction mainly depends upon the extent to which the glenoid ligament is injured. If it be much torn there is but little difficulty: if entire the reduction is extremely tedious and sometimes impracticable. These joints are secured on their dorsal aspect by the passage of the extensor tendon, and the expansion proceeding from it on either side. Their synovial membranes are loose, especially beneath the extensor tendons. Second and '^^^ corresponding articular surfaces of the phalanges LAST JOINT of the finger and thumb are so shaped as to form a ^G^s. binge-joint, and, therefore, incapable of lateral move- ment. The ligaments connecting them are similar in every respect to those between the metacarpal bones and the first phalanges. The glenoid Hgament of the last joint of the thumb generally contains a sesamoid bone.THE ABDOMEN. 284 THE DISSECTION OE THE ABDOMEN. ArHtrary ^® divide the abdomen into arbitrary regions, that division into the situation of the viscera contained in it may be more regions. easily described. For all practical purposes, the ancient division, handed down from the Greek authors, is sufficiently con- venient. An imaginary horizontal line is drawn across the abdomen on a level with the cartilage of the ninth rib; another on a level with the anterior spine of the ilium. That part of the cavity above the upper line is called the epigastric region ; that below the lower one, the hypogastric; while the space included between the liaes is termed the mesogastric or umbilical. These again are subdi- vided thus : — the sides of the epigastric region, beneath the costal cartilages, are termed respectively the right and left hypochondria, and the depression in front just below the en- siform cartilage, is called the scrobi- culus cordis, or the pit of the stomach. The sides of the umbilical region are named the ilia or flanks, and the back part, the loins. The sides of the hypo- gastric region are familiarly known as the groins, while the middle of it is called the pubes. An incision should be made from the sternum to the pubes, another from the anterior spine of the ilium to the umbilicus, and a third from the umbilicus obliquely outwards, over the cartilages of the ninth and tenth ribs, towards the axilla. The285 SUPERFICIAL VESSELS OP THE GROIN. skin s'&ould then be dissected from the subjacent adipose and are- olar tissue, called the " superficial fascia." Su erfi "al "^^^^ subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen presents the fascia. ' Same general characters as that of other parts, and varies in, thickness according to the condition of the individual. At the lower part of the belly, it admits of separation into two layers ; the subcutaneous vessels and nerves ramify between them. Eespecting the superficial layer, there is nothing to be observed, except that it contains the fat. The deeper layer is intimately connected with Poupart's ligament or the crural arch; but it is very loosely continued over the spermatic cord and the scrotum, and becomes identified with the superficial fascia of the perineum. These points deserve attention, because they explain how urine, when extravasated into the perineum and scrotum, readily makes its way over the spermatic cord on to the surface of the abdomen ; but from this it cannot travel down the thigh, on account of the connections of the fascia with Poupart's ligament. ' Superficial Between the layers of the superficial fascia on the ai°d^r^ ^""^ ""PP^^ P^^*^ «f ^^ig^' ^-re several ab- sorbent glands a,nd small blood-vessels (fig. 54). The glands are named, according to their situation, inguinal and femoral. The inguinal are often smaU enough.to escape observation. They are of an oval form, with their long axis corresponding to the line of the crural arch (represented by the dark line in fig. 54). They receive the absorbents from the wall of the abdonten, from the scrotum and penis, and are therefore generally affected in venereal disease. The superficial arteries in the neighbourhood arise from the femoral. One, the epigastric, ramifies over the lower part of the abdomen; another, the^wdic, crosses the spermatic cord, and is distributed to the skin of the penis and scrotum; a third the circnmflexa Hid, ramifies towards the spine of the ilium These subcutaneous arteries, the pudic especially, often occasion a free hemorrhage m the operation for strangulated hernia ^ The corresponding veins join the saphena vein of the thio-h Under ordinary circumstances they do not appear in the livTnoSUPERFICIAL VESSELS OF THE GKOIN. 286 subject; but, when any obstruction occurs in the inferior vena cava, they become enlarged and tortuous, and constitute the chief channels through which the blood would be returned from the lower limbs.* Fig. 54. SOTEEFICIAL VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE GEOIN. 5. Superficial pudic a. 6. External abdomiaal ring. 7. Fascia lata of the thigh. 1. Saphenous opening of the fascia lata. 2. Saphenavein. 3. Superficial epigastric a. 4. Superficial circumflexa ilii a. The skin of the abdomen is supplied with nerves after Cutaneous ^^^^ plan as that of the chest; namely, by lateral ™" and anterior branches derived from the intercostal nerves. * A cast, in iUustration of this, is preserred in the Museum of St. BaxtholomeVs Hospital.287 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. a. The lateral cutaneous nerves come out between the digita- tions of the external oblique muscle, in company with small arteries, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. Observe, however, that the lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve is larger than the others, and that it passes over the crest of the ilium to the skin of the buttock. The corresponding branch of the fii-st lumbar nerve has a similar distribution. h. The anterior cutaneous nerves come with little arteries through the sheath of the rectus muscle. They are not only smaller than the lateral nerves, but their number and place of exit is less regular. That which comes through the external abdominal ring, (ilio-inguinal) as well as another which comes through the wall of the abdomen just above it, (ilio-hypogastric) is derived from the first lumbar nerve. These, however, are but repetitions of the others, and supply the skin of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labium pudendi in the female,* Muscles of -^^^^ examine the abdominal muscles. There are S^?wau: ^^""^^ ^^""^ arranged in strata, named after the direction of their fibres,—the "external oblique," «internal oblique," and " transversaHs." They terminate in front in strong aponeuroses, arranged so as to form a sheath for a broad muscle called the "rectus," which extends perpendicularly on each side the linea alba from the sternum to the pubes rfio- 5^ p. 290). ^ \ B , External . ^^'^ '^'^^''^^ attached to the eight or nine lower obH<iue. nbs, by as many pointed bundles, termed " digitations." The upper five of these fit in with similar bundles of the serratus magnus, and are obvious during life; the three lower correspond in Hke manner with the origin of the latissimus dorsi; but they cannot be seen unless the body be turned on the side. The greater part of the muscle descends obliquely forwards, and terminates on the aponeurosis of the abdomen • the remainder proceeds almost perpendicularly from the last » A tliird small nerve, namely, the genital brinoli nf288 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. ribs, and is attached to the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium.* The aponeurosis of the external oblique increases in strength, breadth, and thickness, as it approaches the lower margin of the belly, this being the situation where the greater pressure of the viscera requires the most effective support. Its tendinous fibres take the same direction as the muscle; they do not, however, stop at the middle line, or linea alba, but cross over those of the oppo- site side; a decussation which makes the aponeurosis all the -X, stronp-er. Along- the line of i unction of the abdomen Poupart s & ° TPij.- ligament or and thigh, the aponeurosis extends Irom the anterior crural arch. ^^.^^ .^.^^ gp-^^g ^j^e pubes, and forms an arch over the intermediate bony excavation (p. 293). This, which is termed'the crural arch^, transmits the great vessels of the thigh, with muscles and nerves, which will be examined here- after. Near the pubes is an opening in the aponeurosis for the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. It is called the " external abdominal ring." Of this, as well as of the crural arch, you must postpone more particular examination till you come to the parts concerned in inguinal hernia. The external oblique should be carefully detached from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards as far as this can be done without injuring its aponeurosis or the crural arch. In this way the second muscular stratum will be exposed. This muscle arises from the outer half of the crural Internal g^j.^^ and from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the obHque. -i"^^^ Prom these attachments the fibres ascend ob- liquely, and are inserted partly into the abdominal aponeurosis, ■ partly into the cartilages of the three or four lower ribs.J * From its position and tlie direction of its fibres, it is manifest that the external obHque represents, in the abdomen, the external intercostal muscles of the chest t This was first described by Fallopius, an ItaUan anatomist, in his " Obsei-rationes Anatomic^," published in 1561. It was subsequently described by Poupart in l<0o in the "M6m. de I'Acad. de Paris," and is now commonly caUed in the scJiools " Poupart's ligament." . * i loo i The internal oblique represents in the abdomen the iaternal intercostal muscies of the chest.289 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. The internal oblique should be detached from the ribs, and from the crest of the ilium; but that portion of it connected to the crural arch must not be disturbed. In removing the internal oblique, we are very apt to cut away the transversalis. To avoid this mistake you should dissect near the crest of the ilium, and endea.vour to find an artery which runs between the muscles, and serves as a guide. This artery, called the deep " circumflexa ilii" proceeds from the external iliac, and supplies the abdominal muscles. Beneath the internal oblique, too, you will bring into view the continuations of the intercostal nerves and vessels. These it is desirable to preserve. Transversalis "^^^^ muscle arises from the outer half of the crural arch, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, from a^fascia attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and, lastly, from the inner surfaces of the six or seven lower costal cartilages, by digitations which correspond with those of the diaphragm. From this manifold origin the fibres proceed horizontally forwards, and terminate in the abdominal aponeurosis. Eectus. "^^^^ muscle lies perpendicularly along the front of the belly, aud is enclosed in a sheath formed by the aponeu- roses of the lateral muscles of the abdomen. To expose it, therefore, we must slit up its sheath. It arises by a flat tendon from the symphysis, and from the upper part of the pubes; and is inserted into the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. You notice the tendinous intersections across the muscle called " linece transversce;' which are only incomplete repetitions of the ribs in the wall of the abdomen.* Their number varies from three to five, but there are always more above than below the umbilicus. Ob- serve, moreover, that these tendinous intersections adhere closely to the sheath in front, but not behind; consequently, matter formed between the front of the rectus and its sheath, would be confined by two intersections; not so on the back of the muscle, for matter might travel down the entire length of it. * Some animals-c.<7. the crococIUe-laave bony abdommal ribs. U290 ABDOMIKAL MUSCLES. How is the sheath of the rectus formed? The front of the sheath comprises the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique, and half the thickness of that of the internal oblique*; while the back of the . sheath comprises the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis, and the other half of the internal oblique (fig. 55). This however, applies only ■ERECTOR sP./^"*sa^£S*-i»sa^i*^ to the Upper three- DIAGEAM OF A TEANSVBESE SECTION THEOUGH THE foUrthS of thc mUSCle ; ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. lowcr fourth has no sheath behind, for all the aponeuroses pass in front of it. Along the middle line of the belly the several aponeu- Linea alba. ^^^^^ decussate SO as to form a white tendinous line extending from the sternum to the pubes. This is the "linea alba:" it is but a continuation of the sternum deprived of its earthy matter, in adaptation to the functions of this part of the body. A little below the middle of it is situated what was in the foetus the opening of the passage of the umbilical vessels. After birth, the vessels being no longer required, the opening gradually closes, and becomes plugged by their fibrous remains. _ Since the linea alba is the thinnest paxt of the abdomen, and is free from blood-vessels, it is chosen as a safe line for tapping m dropsy, and for puncturing the bladder in retention of urme. This little muscle is situated near the pubes, close to PyramidaUs. ^.^^^ ^^^^^ ^ little sheath of its own. It arises from the upper part of the pubes in front of the rectus, and terminates in the Hnea alba about midway between the pubes and the umbilicus. It is said to be of use in tightening the hnea alba, * The line where the internal obHque splits-namely, along the ont*r border of the rectus is called the linea semilmaris.PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 291 but it does not appear to have any special purpose in the human subject, for it is sometimes deficient on one or even both sides. By dividing the rectus transversely near the umbilicus, and raising it from its position, we have a complete view of the manner in which the sheath is formed; we observe, too, that this is very indistinct behind the lower fourth of the muscle. Eamifying in the substance of the muscle is a large artery, called the " epigastric," a branch of the external iliac ; also the continuation of the internal mammary, which descends from the subclavian. Nerves of the These nerves are the continuations of the six lower abdominal intercostal nerves, and of the first lunibar. Thev have the same general course and distribution. We trace them running forwards between the internal oblique and trans- versalis towards the rectus. They furnish branches to the abdo- minal muscles, and each gives off its lateral and anterior cutaneous branches described p. 286. Action of the consequence of their stratified arrangement, and m^Xs°^^ different direction of their fibres, the abdominal mus- cles answer many important purposes:—1. They are the principal muscles concerned in forcible expiration ; 2. By compress- ing the viscera in conjunction with the diaphragm, they are the chief agents in the expulsion of the f^ces and urine, also in vomit- ing, sneezing, laughing, coughing; 3. They act, each in its own way, as movers of the trunk: e. g. the right external obHque, co- operatmg with the left internal oblique, can draw the trunk towards the left side, and vice versa. The recti raise the body from the horizontal position, as any one may ascertain by laying the hand on the abdomen while rising from the ground. EXAMINATION OF THE PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. General idea Presuming that you have proceeded so far in fbp oni,e..b. examination of the abdominal wall, now turn your inguinal he"" *° ^"^'°"^^ P^'^ ~^ - 0 2292 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. The testicle, originally formed in the loins, subsequently passes through the wall of the abdomen into the scrotum: its^ blood- vessels and nerves and excretory duct, drawn down after it, con- stitute the spermatic cord; and the passage through which it comes through the abdomen is called the " inguinal canal." This canal is not direct, but oblique, that the abdominal wall may the better resist protrusion of the viscera. We have seen that the wall of the abdomen is composed of strata of different structures; and we shall presently find that the spermatic cord, as it passes through each stratum, derives from each a covering similar in structure to the stratum itself. Of these strata there are three: the first-that is the aponeurosis of the external oblique, — we shall call the "aponeurotic stratum ; " the second — that is, the internal oblique and transverse muscles,—we shall call the "muscular stratum;" the third—namely, the fascia transversalis which lines the under surface of the transverse muscle, —we shall call the "fascial stratum." The most intelligible way of investigating the subject is to examhae each stratum as it appears on dissection, and then to consider the inguinal canal as a whole. First, then, of the aponeu- rotic stratum, . ^ ^ i The lower border of the aponeurosis of the external Aponeurotic ^^lique, extending from the spine of the ilium to the SrTai ab- spine of the pubes, constitutes Poupart's Hgament, or dominal crural arch. We have now to examine more m detail the opening in the aponeurosis which gives passage to the spermatic cord ; in other words, the " external abdominal rinqr or thedower aperture of the inguinal canal. This ring, then, is situated immediately above and to the outer side of the spine of the pubes: its size and shape vary a little in different mdividuals. It is an oval opening, with the long axis directed obliquely down- wards and inwards, and will admit the passage of a finger. These remarks apply to the male; in the female the opening is smaller, » To ascertain in the Hying subject whether the ring be free or otherwise, the best plan is to push the tHn skin of the scrotmn before tl- finger; then, by ^-^^^^^ cord, we can readUy pass the finger into the ring behmd the fat which covers the pubes.293 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. V 3 and transmits the round ligament of the viterus. The sides of the opening are called its pillars or columns*, and their respective at- tachments should be thoroughly investigated. . The internal pillar Fig. 56. 4. Internal pillar of the ring. fl. Position of the inter- nal ring, in dotted outline. DIAGRAM OF POTJPABT's LIGAMENT, OF THE APONEUROSIS OF THE EXTERNAL OBLIQUE AND OF THE BXTEENAi ABDOMINAL RING. ' is attached to the front of the pubes, not only of its own side but also of the opposite; so that there is a decussation of aponeurotic fibres m front of the symphysis just as there is in the linea alba The external pillar is stronger and much more firmly secured, because there is a greater strain upon it. We find that it has no less than three points of attachment, each of which, being considered as a liga- ment, has received a special name. One, perhaps the strongestlt- tachment, is to the spine of the pubes (Poupart's ligament)! The second extends for neaxly an inch along the linea ilio-pectinea (Gim- * These, and many other expressions in the lanffuaee of anatorr,^ ^ ns at first rather far fetched or even affected, but wTLT oimTo tZT''-T na..a. and proper, because ttniversaUy received amongst thos^X ^294 PARTS CONCEKNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. bemat's ligament). The third, and weakest, consists of a few fibres, which pass beneath the internal pillar to the linea alba and are, xn fact, continuous with the aponeurosis of the opposite side: this is called the triangular ligament). There can be no objection to these ligaments having separate names, provided we understand that they are nothing more than the attachments of the outer pillar °^ror''soL distance above the opening observe that the cross fibres of the aponeurosis are strongly marked. These cross fibres, which round off the upper margin of the opening -e - conspi- cuous that anatomists have called them the vr^tercolu^nar hands. Their purpose plainly is to prevent the ring from enlarging In L passage through the ring, the spermatic cord rests upon the orter'pili:r, and receives from the margin of the opening a covering, called " the sjpermaUc fascia:' To examine the muscular stratum we must reflect the Musciaar . n .-.^ ov+Arnal oblioue. This is best done stratum and aponeurosis of the external oDiique cremaster. { a transverse incision through it froin the .r>lne of the ilium to the linea alba, and another at right angles to X- a^a —se .usees: t.ese. so as o^jr^ s*- jeot is —ed, may be ^.^^^^''^JJ^ tZl the outo origin, Erection ^-{:^l^^^^^\::rlus,.rselj the ^ re;Xli~- • 4r.or1 tP-ndon " which is mserted into the uppei « conjoined tendon, wn ^^^^ ^^.^ ^^^^^ pubes and the ^^^^f ^"^"^.^^f ,^/^^ternal ring, plainly for the 1^^^^^ liability to hernia would have been very great. muscular stratum, and The spermatic cord passes undei this musci j^gory derives from it a covering, called the ".cremaster, or suspens yPARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 295 V 4 muscle of the testicle. The fibres of the cremaster are thin and pale, or the reverse, according to the condition of the subject. Its bundles, arising from the crural arch, descend most of them Pig. 57. 1. Conjoined tendon of internal oblique and transversalis. Cremaster muscle passing down in loops over the cord. DIAGHAM OF THE LOmiK FMEES OF THE INTERNA!, OBLIQUE AND TEANSVEESALIs' ■WITH THE CKBMASTEB MUSCLE. ' in front of the cord, and then arch up again towards the pubes Thus they form a series of loops of different lengths; some reaching only as low as the external ring, others lower still, while the lowest cover the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. In very muscular subjects you may sometimes succeed in tracing some of the returning fibres up to the pubes, as shown in the diagram, where the loops are purposely exaggerated: but this is quite the exception. The cremaster is very evident in subjects where there has been a hydrocele or a rupture. Its nerve comes from the first lumbar which also supplies the internal oblique and transversalis Its artery is a branch of the deep epigastric. Fascial , ^^}\'^ f ^^'^ stratum is nothing more than the stratum. tascia which Imes the transversalis muscle. For many reasons it is most advantageous to examine it from behind •296 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL, HERNIA. we should therefore turn down a triangular flap of the abdominal wall, just as was done with the aponeurosis of the external oblique. On the inner surface of the flap, thus reflected, is the peritoneum. If the parts be all kept together and made tense, we notice that the peritoneum is raised into a fold by a thick fibVous cord, which runs up obliquely towards the umbilicus. This cord is the impervious remains of the umbiHcal artery. If the peritoneal fold be well marked, it appears triangular with the base below, and occasions two pouches, one on either side of it. The depth and distmctness of these pouches will be iu proportion to the prominence of the fold itself; but if it happen that the cord be closely attached to the abdominal wall, then there will be no fold or pouch.* Take care not to confound the remains of the umbilical artery with what is called the "uro^hus:' This is another cord, a remnant of em- bryonic life, which ascends from the bladder directly behmd the linea alba to the umbilicus. Haying examined the remains of the umbilical artery and the urachus, now reflect the peritoneum from the abdominal flap. This is done easily enough, for it is loosely connected to the abdominal wall by an abundance of soft cellular tissue, which generally con- tains a considerable quantity of fat. A tissue of a connects the peritoneum to the iliac region; and this accounts for the facility with which the peritoneum can be extended so as to envelop even the largest hernise. T Jfasoia lining the under surface of the transversals .ausck ,as first accurately described by Sir A. Cooper, and ca led by Inm r "/a.« tr««& " (fig. 58). New what are the connec- tions of this important fascia? Speaking generally, one may say Ot it is attached to the crural arch thence ^^^f'^-^gf^l diminishing in thickness, is lost on the under surface of the tiaits. W muscle. Its inner border is connected to the margin of the Zt^Z also to the lower margin of the conjomed tendon. trusion takes place in the outer or the inner fossa.297 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. Observe that this fascia is nowhere stronger than just behind the external ring, and but for it and the conjoined tendon, there would be a direct opening into the cavity of the belly through the ring. You will find that the outer half of the fascia is very firmly con- nected to the crural arch and also to the fascia iliaca: but the inner half is loosely connected with the crural ai-ch; and passes down Pig. 58. 4,4. Sheath of the femo- ral ressels, con- tinued from the fascia transver- salis. B. Femoral a. 6. Profunda a. 7. Saphenav. 8, 8. Fascia transfer, salts. DIAGRAM OP THE FASCIA TEANSVEESAIIS SEEN FBOM THE FRONT. under it over the femoral vessels into the thigh, and forms what is called " the sheath of the femoral vessels." The opening in the Internal fascia through which the spermatic cord passes is called abdominal the " internal abdominal ring." * This must be accurately examined. First, as to its precise situation. It corre- sponds with a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilmm and the symphysis pubis, and about two-thirds of an inch above the crural arch. As to its shape, you had better introduce the little finger into it, and judge for yoiu-selves. You will find * Or the inner aperture of the inguinal canalPARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 298 that it has a defined margin on the pubic side, but none on the iliac, and that on the whole it looks like a little funnel. In its passage through the internal abdominal ring the spermatic cord receives from the margin of it its first covering, thin and delicate, termed the infundibuliform fascia. (This is not seen in the diagram.) But the chief point of interest concerning the internal ring is that the epigastric artery ascends close by its inner border. Having examined the several strata through which the spermatic cord passes, you will do well to replace them in their natural position, and build them up so as to examine the inguinal canal as a whole. You will perceive that its direction is obliquely down- wards and inwards. Its length in a well-formed adult male is from one and a half to two inches. Now, what are its boundaries ? It is bounded in front by the aponeurosis of the external oblique; behind, by the fascia transversalis; above, by the lower fleshy fibres of the internal obHque and, transversalis; below, by the crural arch. In a practical point of view this is one of the most im- rektfonrof portant arteries in the body. It arises from the external fte l^gaa- iliac, j ust before this vessel passes under the crm-al arch, trie artery. ^scends inwards, forms a gentle curve round the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and consequently on tbe inner side of the spermatic cord, and then enters the rectus muscle, in which it is gradually lost. In the fii'st part of its course rt lies between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis; afterwards it enters the sheath of the rectus. The artery is accompamed by two veins of which the larger is constantly found on the inner side of it They terminate by a single trunk in the ihac vem Of the branches of the epigastric artery the most im- KetpV portant is the ":pxc&ic." It runs inwards just behind the gastric. l^^^^i arch, towards the pubes, and derives its chiet practical interest from the fact that it is liable to be wounded m dMding the stricture in femoral hernia.* But its size varies in different subjects, and is sometimes so small as to escape observa- . There is a prepaa^tion (No. 83, Ser. 17) in the Mnseur. of St. ^-^^J-;^^^;^ pital quite to the point. The patient had profuse hemoi-rhage, which conamenced five hours after the operation. He died mth peritonitis.PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 299 tion. The second branch is the " cremasteric.^^ It supplies the coverings of the cord, and chiefly the cremaster muscle. After giving ofif other unnamed muscular branches, the main trunk ter- minates in the rectus by minute inosculations with the internal mammary. Such is a brief outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia. This description applies equally to the female, provided the round ligament be substituted for the spermatic cord. Of course the inguinal canal is proportionably smaller, and there is no cremaster. Nomenclature ^^^n a piece of intestine escapes along the inguinal of the several Canal with the cord, and protrudes through the outer S^°Wiiia. ^^^^^^ oblique inguinal hernia. If the intestine stops in the inguinal canal, it is called an mier)iaZ or incomplete inguinal hernia; such an one is generally of small size, and often difficult of detection. Lastly, if a portion of intestine escape at once through the external ring, then it is called a direct inguinal hernia. Coverings of An oblique inguinal hernia has all the coverings of feri^?""''* B^^eath the skin, therefore, and the sub- cutaneous tissue, there will be 1. The spermatic fascia, derived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique. 2. The cremaster muscle, derived from the internal oblique and transversalis. 3. The infundibuliform fascia, derived from the fascia trans- versalis. The incomplete inguinal hernia will be covered by 1. The aponeurosis of the external oblique, 2. The cremaster. 3. The infundibuliform fascia. The direct inguinal hernia will be covered by 1. The spermatic fascia. 2. The fascia transversalis.* * What becomes, it may be asked, of the fibres of the conjoined tendon of tlie in emal obhque and transversaUs ? They are either protruded before the per t neun or permit the hernia to slip between them, peritoneum,PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 300 In all cases, or at any rate with very few exceptions, the immediate investment of the intestine is the peritonemn. This constitutes the sac of the hernia. The opening of the sac, com- municating with the abdomen, is called its mouth, then comes the neck, and lastly, the body or expanded part of the sac. The spermatic cord is generally situated behind fpoSmatic co?d and on the outer side of the hernial sac. But in- in reference to gtances sometimes occur in which there is a different the erma. arrangement, and such deviations are easily explained. Since the spermatic vessels and the hernial swelling are more or less connected, by cellular tissue, and included, as it were, in a common sheath, we can have no difdculty in understanding that the hernia may separate the component parts of the cord, so that one or other of them may come to lie on the front of the swelling. A similar displacement is sometimes produced by an old and large hydrocele on the same principle; the increase of the watery tiTmour affecting the spermatic vessels and the vas deferens in the same way as the growth of the rupture. For this reason we ought always, in large hernise, to be cautious in cutting down upon the sac tiiat we do not divide any of the displaced components of the cord. Mr. Hey mentions, as a warning, that he once divided the vas deferens.* The stricture may be seated either at the external Seat of stricture. ^.^^^ internal ring, or at any intermediate part. Sometimes there is a sort of double stricture, one at the external, the other at the internal ring. The stricture, however, may be caused by the mouth of the sac itself, independently of the parts outside it; for the peritoneum may become thickened and indurated, and sufficiently unjaeldmg to strangulate the protruded parts. Such changes are liable to be produced by the pressure of a truss. ■We cannot do better than adhere to the golden rule STcf theatric- laid down by Sir A. Cooper, namely, to divide the ture should be stricture, in all cases, directly upwards. In this direc- tion, we are least likely to wound the epigastric artery. * Practical Observations, p. 146.POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCEKA. 301 Changes ro- Whoever has the opportunity of dissecting an old clucedbyan hernia of some size, will observe that the obliquity heriii^^'^^^ ing-viinal canal is destroyed. The constant dragging of the protruded viscera gradually bring s the internal ring nearer to the external, so that at last the one gets quite behind the other, and there is a direct opening into the abdomen. But the position of the epigastric artery with regard to the sac remains unaltered. It is still on the inner side of the neck of the sac. In hernise of long standing, aU its coverings undergo a change. They become thickened and hypertrophied to such an extent, and so altered from what they once were, that they scarcely look Hke the same parts. Now expose the contents of the abdomen by a crucial incision, and take a general survey of the viscera before they are disturbed from their relative position. What is seen . ^'^^^^ hypochondrium the liver is seen project- on opening mg more or less below the cartilages of the ribs, and men"? °' ^^^^^us of the gaU-bladder below the edge of the liver, near the end of the ninth costal cartilage. Such IS generally the case in the dead body. But remember that in a state of health, the edge of the liver ought not to project much, if at all, below the false ribs : it does so, however, in children, and in women; m children, by reason of the large size of the liver - in women, by reason of the use of stays. In the left hypochondrium IS seen more or less of the stomach. Across the umbilical re-ion IS a portion of the large intestine called the transverse colon; from this there descends a broad fold of peritoneum, called the great omentum, looking like a curtain of fat over the convolutions of the small intestines; but the breadth of this fold varies in different instances ; sometimes it is contracted and crumpled. The lower part of the belly and part of the pelvis is occupied by Ihe small intestines. The urinary bladder is not apparent^ unless dTs! tended sufficiently to rise out of the pelvis. In the riahM w f is the ^^caput coli," the commencemrnt of^^:'^^::^Z302 POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. the ascending part of tlie large intestine in the right lumbar- region, and the descending part of it in the left, are not visible unless distended; they lie contracted at the back of the abdomen. Such and so much of the viscera are usually seen on opening the abdomen ; but a certain latitude must be allowed to this statement. Sometimes more of one organ appears and less of another, accord- ing as this or that is distended or hypertrophied. Much depends also upon the amount of pressure which the ribs have undergone during life; so that, all things considered, we seldom see the parts in any two bodies precisely in the same position. Particular position You should next examine the position of each of each viscus. viscus separately ; and, first, that of the liver. The liver occupies the whole of the right hypo- The liver. 'chondrium, and extends over the epigastric region more or less into the left. Unless the individual be very corpulent, we can ascertain during life the extent to which the liver projects below the costal cartilages, and the general dimensions of the organ may be tolerably well told by percussion. Its under surface overlays part of the stomach, of the duodenum, of the right kidney, and of the transverse colon: its upper surface is convex, and accurately adapted to the arch of the diaphragm. To this muscle the liver is connected by folds of peritoneum, called « ligaments." One of these, nearly longitudinal in direction, and called the " suspensory," or, from its shape the "falciform'' ligament, is situated a little to thelnghtpt the mesial line. The free edge of it in front contains the impervious remains of the umbilical vein called the "round'' ligament. The suspensory ligament, if traced backwards, leads to another broad fold extending horizontally from the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver; this constitutes the " lateral " ligament nght or left, according as we trace it on one or other side of the falciform ligament. gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile. It is GaU-bladder. ^^^^^^^ confined by the peritoneum in a sUght depres- sion on the under surface of the liver. Its lower end or fundus * The junction of the lateral and the falciform Hgamenta is described by some authors as the coronary ligament.POSITION 01? ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 303 projects beneath the cartilage of the ninth rib. This is important in a practical point of view : it sometimes happens that the gall- bladder, in consequence of some obstruction to its duct, becomes unusually distended, and, imder such circumstances, occasions a swelling below the margin of the ribs, which might be mistaken for an hepatic abscess.* The close proximity of the gall-bladder to the duodenum and the transverse colon explains the occasional evacuation of gall-stones by ulceration into the intestinal canal.f Stomach. ^^^^^ °f stomach is situated under the shelter of the left hypochondrium, and, when distended, occupies nearly the whole of it; but the narrow or pyloric end extends obUquely across the epigastrium into the right hypochon- drium, where it is overlapped by the liver. The position of the great end of the stomach explains the peculiar sonorousness which percussion frequently elicits over the left hypochondrium, and even for some distance up the side of the chest; so that, when the sto- mach IS large and flatulent, it is often very difficult to ascertain how much of the sound belongs to the stomach ; how much to the chest. The pressure of the flatulent stomach upon the heart ac- count also for the irregular action of this organ observable in cases 01 indigestion. Spleen. "^^^ '^P^^en is situated deep in the left hypochondrium between the stomach and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. Its outer surface is free and convex, to correspond with the diaphragm and the ribs; its inner surface, where its great vessels enter it, is concave and connected to the great end of the stomach by a peritoneal fold called the "gasiro-splenic omentum." Gene- rally too, the spleen is connected by a small peritoneal fold to the diaphragm. J Pancreas. '^^^^ the salivary gland of the abdomen. It lies _ behmd the stomach, transversely across the spine about the level of the second lumbar vertebra. Its right end'r head is bIJz s;:: roi"' ^- - ■ ^-.s. dum. t See preparations in the Museum, Ser. 16, No. 84. t Every now and then we find in the ffastrn-RnlomV „ spleens in addition to the large one. S'^«*^°-«Pi^^<^ omentum one or more Uttie304 POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. contained within the cnrve of the duodenum: its left end extends as far as the spleen. . The kidneys are situated in the lumhar region, nearly opposite the two lower dorsal and the two upper lumbar vertebrae. They lie imbedded in fat, partly upon the quadratus lumborum, partly upon the psoas. In contact with the right kidney, we have the Uver, the second part of the duodenum, and the ascending colon; in contact with the left, are the spleen, the end of the pancreas, and the descending colon. This body is situated at the top of the kidney, it Eenal capsule. ^^^^ ^^^^ diaphragm. You will see the right renal capsule by lifting up the Hver ; the left, by Mtmg - up the spleen, and the great end of the stomach. Now trace the course of the alimentary canal from General out- ^^^^^^^ the auus, SO far as this can be done SlTxiSthe ^thout injury to its connections. A small part of it intestines. immoveably fixed. Though all the rest oi the canal can be moved about with faciUty, yet it is so connected by fold' of peritoneum to the back of the abdomen that it cannot be- come entangled. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ . i^Ust^u^ cUo- Duodenum. ^^^^^^^ it ^bout twelve inches long takes a curious course (p. 315). Commencing at P^^^^^f ^/^^^^^^^ stomach the duodenum ascends obliquely as high as the neck ot heT^ma^^^^; then, making a sudden bend, it descends m ft'ont StlfrSht kidney; lastly, making another bend, it crosses the MelM.^ the name of " i.juuum." The commencement of tli^parTof the intestine is seen by raising the transverse co^on ?hus the duodenum describes a sort of horse-shoe curve. The ntlv of tL curve is towards the left, and embraces the head TireJend For convenience of description - Sv^l^odenum'into an —' ^ " verse portion. The first is completely ^'J'^'^^\^' and is comparatively loose, that the motions of ^'^^ f ^^^^^ not be restricted; the second and third ai-e only covered by pexito305 POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. neum in front, and are immoveably fixed, for good reasons, to the back of the abdomen.* Pursuing its course from the left side of the second Ueiuu^^"^^ lumbar vertebra, the intestinal canal forms a number of convolutions, which are loosely connected to the spine by a broad peritoneal fold termed the mesentei'^." Of these convolutions, the upper two-fifths constitute the " intestinum jejunum;" the lower three-fifths the " intestinum ileum.'''' This is an arbitrary division; for there is no definite limit between them; but the character of the bowel gradually changes — that is, it becomes less vascular, has fewer folds of the lining membrane, and its coats are therefore less substantial to the feel. Commence- right iliac fossa, the small intestine opens into ment of large the left side of the colon: here the large intestine ®' begins : here is the ilio-caecal valve (fig. 59). Imme- diately below the junction we observe that the large intestine is expanded into a blind pouch, called the ccecum or caput coli. Into the back part of this pouch opens a little tube closed at the other end, called the "appendix vermiformis.'" This tube is generally three inches long, about as thick as a tobacco-pipe, and is either coiled up behind the cascum, or connected to it by a peritoneal fold, so as to hang loose in the pelvis. The commencement of the large intestine is generally con- fined by the peritoneum to the iliac fossa, in which it lies.t Tra- cing it from this point, we find that it ascends through the right lumbar region in front of the right kidney, and then, crossing the umbilical region towards the left side J, descends in front of the * There are two reasons -why the second and third parts of the duodenum should be fixed and have no mesentery: first, if the duodenum had been loose, it would have fallen down like the other intestLaes, and have disordered the stomach by dragging it down with it; secondly, had it been loose, it would have been apt to have stretched the bUe and pancreatic ducts, and the flow of bUe through them would every now and then have been obstructed. t But this is not invariably so. The bowel is, in some subjects, connected to the fossa, by a fold of peritoneum or a " mcso-cmcum." I have often seen this fold suf- ficiently loose to aUow the caput coli to travel quite over to the left iliac fossa t This transverse part of the colon, in some instances, makes a coH behind the X306 POSITION OIT ABDOMINAL VISCERA. left kidney* down the left lumbar region into the iliac fossa, where it curves like the letter S. These successive portions of the large intestine are termed respectively the ascending, transverse, de- scending, and sigmoid parts of its course. Lastly, the bowel enters Kg. 69, 1. llenm. 2. Caecum or caput coll. 3. Appendix vermiformis. SECTION THBOiraH THE ^mCTION THE XABOB ANI, S^. IKTESTH^E TO SHOW THE ILIO-CCECAL VALVE. the pelvis on the left side of the sacrum, and here takes the name of ''rectum:^ This term, so far as concerns the human subject is misapplied; the canal runs anything but a straight course through the pelvis, for it curves so as to adapt itself to the sacrum. _ Looking at the entire course of the colon, obsei-ve that it forms stomach to the diaphragm; such a state of thmgs, when the Wl happens to be Tended is apt to g^Ve rE^to symptoms of diseased heaxt. See some observations m point by Dr. Copland, in Lond. Med. Gaz., 1847, vol. v. p 660. ^ * The contigSty of the ascending and descending colon t. the ngh '^f ^fj'^^l respectively, explains the occasional bvu;sting of renal abscesses into the mtestmal307 PERITONEUM. X 2 an arch, of which the concavity enabraces the convolutions of the small intestines. Length of "^^^ small intestines, including the duodenum, vary the alimen- from sixteen to twenty-eight feet, according to the height taiy canal. ^-^^ individual. All this coil of bowel is sustained and kept in place by a simple pedicle of mesentery, which extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, to the right iliac fossa. In a man five feet high, I found that the small intestines measured twenty-four feet; the large, five feet nine inches. In round numbers we may say that the small and large intestines are from five to six times the length of the body. A certain range of motion being necessary to the Jreritoneum. . . ° j abdominal viscera, they are provided with a serous membrane, called the "peritoneum." This membrane not only facilitates their movements, but maintains each in its proper place. Although its texture is thin, and apparently delicate, yet it is so tough, that if a portion of it were removed and stretched across a hoop, it would support a weight of from forty to fifty pounds with- out giving way. That it is elastic too, is ^proved by the rapidity with which it recovers itself after being distended by dropsy, pregnancy, hernia, &c. The plan of the peritoneum is like that of all other serous membranes; that is, it forms a closed sac, one part of which lines the containing cavity, the other is reflected over the contained organs. These are respectively termed the parietal and the visceral layers. There is nothing between them, —or, in other words, inside the sac, but just sufficient moisture to lubricate its smooth and polished surface. The viscera, then, are all outside the sac. Some lie altogether behind it, e. g. the pancreas and kidneys; others push the visceral layer before them, so as to give rise to membranous folds; and the greater the fold, the greater is the mobility of the viscus which occasions it. The vessels and nerves of the viscus must run up to it through the fold, for they can get to it in no other way. First let us examine the several folds which connect the visceraPERITONEUM. 308 either to each other or to the back of the abdomen. This donei we will endeavour to trace the peritoneum as a continuous membrane. This is the fold which connects the small intestines to Mesenteiy. ^^^^ abdomen. To see it you should raise the omentum and the transverse arch of the colon. You then observe that its attached part or root extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra across the spine to the right iliac fossa. The loose part of the mesentery curves, as it were, like a ruffle, and encloses the small intestine from the beginning of the jejunum to the end of the ileum. Between its layers, are the mesenteric vessels, nerves, glands and lymphatics. This broad fold connects the transverse colon to Transverse ^-^^ ^^^-^ ^^ye abdomen. It forms a sort of parti- tion, dividing the abdomen into an upper compart- ment, containing the stomach, liver, and spleen; and a lower, containing the convolutions of the smaU intestines. As regards the caecum, the ascending and descending portions of the colon, they, as a general rule, are bound down by the peritoneum in their respective situations. It covers only two-thirds, or thereabouts, of their anterior surface; the rest is connected by loose cellular tissue to the back of the abdomen.* This broad peritoneal fold proceeds from the lower Great ^^^^^j. ^he stomach, like a curtain over the convolu- omentum. ^.^^^ ^^^^^ intestines. From this resemblance its name is probably derived. In corpulent persons it is enor- mously loaded with fat, and contributes very much to the size ot the belly. In thin subjects, on the other hand, it is often quite transparent. Its length, too, varies considerably. In some bodies find it extending down into the pelvis; in others, contracted we * It is practicable, therefore, to make an artificial anus by an t'^!^^;^^^ loins, into tbis portion of the canal. It sbonld be remembered, ^'^-^J^l^'^^ are very frequent exceptions to the statement in the text. ndeed, ^ ^ J^^^^^^^ uncommon to find both the ascending and the descendn.g - ^ ^^^f jf^;™tft by peritoneum, and connected in the lumbar regions, respectmly, by a nght and left lumbar meso-colon. There is also sometimes a meso-csecum.PERITOKEUM. 309 X 3 and crumpled. Now and then it is found riddled with holes. This last state of parts is attended with some risk, for it may- happen that a knuckle of intestine becomes strangulated in one of the holes; and of this, death is the almost certain result. Gastro "^^^^ ^^^'^ connects the stomach to the liver. Its hepatic or right border is free; and between its layers are the lesser omen- yessels and nerves going to, and the duct coming from, the liver. The duct lies to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the vena portse behind and between them. If the finger be introduced beneath this border, it passes through what is called the "foramen of Winslow " * into the lesser cavity of the peritoneum (p. 316). This foramen is situated behind the right edge of wSw ^^^^^'^ omentum. Very often it is blocked up by adhesions. But if you can get your finger in, you will find that the foramen is bounded above, by the liver; below, by the commencement of the duodenum; in front, by the free border of the lesser omentum; behind, by the vena cava inferior. Gastro- ^^^^ ^^^^ proceeds from the great end of the stomach splenic to the spleen, and is continuous below with the great omentum. It contains between its layers the "vasa brevia," branches from the splenic artery to the great end of the stomach. Course of '^^''^ trace the peritoneum, as a continuous the peri- membrane. To say the truth, this is not a very easy matter, — in fact, it has always been considered a sort of anatomical puzzle. Since the peritoneum is a perfect sac, it matters not where we begin, for after all we must come back to the point from which we started. Supposing, then, a longitudinal section were made through, the viscera in the middle Hue of the body, one might trace the peritoneum thus — beginning at the diaphragm, and taking, for brevity's sake, two layers at a time (fig. 60):- From the diaphragm two layers of peritoneum proceed to the * Fatal strangulation of a portion of intestine has been known to take place in this foramen.3i0 rERITONEUM, Fig. 60. liver, forming its lateral ligaments; they separate to enclose the liver, meet again on its under surface, and pass on, under the name of gastro-hepatic omentum, to the smaller cm-ve of the sto- mach. Separating, they embrace the stomach, and meeting again at its greater curve, pass down over the small intestines to form the great omentum. At the lower margin, of the great omentum they are reflected upwards (so that the omentum consists of four layers) to the spine near the pancreas, and ,here the layers diverge from each other. The upper layer ascends in front of the pancreas to the diaphragm; the lower layer proceeds over the arch of the colon and then back to the spine, thus forming the transverse meso-colon.* From thence it is reflected over the small intestines, forming the me- sentery. From the root of the mesentery it descends into the pelvis, and invests a part of the rectum (and the uterus in the female). From the rectum it is reflected on to the posterior part of the bladder, and from thence to the wall of the abdomen, along which we trace it up to the dia- phragm. Such would be the course of the peritoneum as seen by a longi- DIAGEAM OF THE COUfiSE OF THE PEBITONEUM. (The aiTOWS show where the bladder can be tapped.) * This particular arrangement is demonstrable only in early life, grows the great omentum becomes adherent to the arch of the colon. As the childPERITONEUM. 311 X 4 tudinal section. But there are certain lateral reflections which would not be seen except by a transverse section, e. g. from the great end of the stomach two layers proceed to the spleen, forming the gastro-splenic omentum; from the transverse meso-colon it is reflected on either side over the ascending and descending colon. Wliat parts "^^^ descending and transverse portions of the duo- of the ali- denum, the caecum, the ascending, and descending colon ranal'^aJe (with exceptional cases), and the lower part of the rectum only par- g^j-g covered by the peritoneum only in front. These vered by points are not without practical interest. For instance, peritoneum? gjj^ce the descending colon is closely connected to the lumbar region by loose cellular tissue, and has' not, in the majority of cases, any peritoneal covering behind; this part of the alimen- tary canal is available for the purpose of making an artificial anus.* The gut can be reached by a longitudinal incision near the outer border of the quadratus lumborum. Again, the caecum being very liable to the accumulation of hardened faeces, is apt to engender the formation of an abscess in the cellular tissue which connects it to the right iliac fossa. The matter thus formed may either burst externally, or make its way into the bowel, f To give another instance. The absence of peritoneum from the posterior part of the caecum explains how a hernia may take ■ place without a peritoneal sac. That part of the caecum bare of peritoneum may protrude through the inguinal ring first; then, if more caecum should come down, this is likely to be denuded of its peritoneal covering, which is but loosely connected to the gut at the sides. In this way, then, it is possible to have a large caecal * The proposal of opening the intestinal canal, as a last resource, at some point in the abdomen, so as to evacuate its contents and establish an artificial anus, was first made by Littre (M6m. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1720). He proposed to open the sig- moid flexure of the colon in a case of imperforate anus. A successful case of the kind is recorded as having been performed on a boy twenty-four hoiu-s after birth by Duset. (Eecueil period, de la Soc. de M^d. de Paris, t. iv.) The same child was reported at the age of twelve to be in good health, with an artificial anus in the left iliac fossa. (Diet, des Sciences M6d. t. xxiv. See also cases in vol. xxxv. of Med,-Ch. Transactions.) t The best account of iliac abscesses is to be found in the " Le9ons Orales " of Dupuytren.BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 312 hernia without any peritoneum before it, except just round the neck. The same thing may happen, mutatis mutandis, to the sigmoid flexure of the colon when it happens to be fixed in the left iliac fossa like the caecum. Lesser cavity Returning once more to the peritoneum, anatomists toneum sjiesik of the lesser cavity of it, as distinguished from the greater, and they say the communication be- Kg. 61. 1. Phrenic. 2. Cseliac axis. 3. Superior mesenteric. 4. Supra renal. 5. Renal. 6. Spermatic. 7. Inferior mesenteric. 8. Lumbar. 9. Sacra media. BBANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAI, AOETA. tween them takes place through the foramen of Winslow. Now this lesser cavity, or sac of the omentum, is situated behind the stomach. If, in the fcstus, air be blown into the foramen of Winslow, we distend the lesser cavity; that is, the air passes behind the stomach and then between the two down and the two up layers, so to speak, of the great omentum. As the child grows,313 BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. the great omentum becomes adherent to the arch of the colon; and thus the proper sac of the omentum is closed. But the cavity behind the stomach is permanent. Brandies of ^^^^ ^^^^ subject should be the examination of the the abdo- arteries which supply the viscera. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the diaphragm, and then descending in front of the spine, divides opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra into the two common iliac arteries. In this course it gives off its branches in the following order (fig. 61) : — 1. The phrenic, for the supply of the diaphragm. 2. The cceliac axis, a short thick trunk which immediately subdivides into three branches for the supply of the stomach, the liver, and the spleen. 3. The superior mesenteric, for the supply of all the small intes- tines and the upper half of the large. 4. 5. The supra-renal and the o^enal arteries. 6. The spermatic, for the testicles in the male, and the ovaries in the female. 7. The inferior mesenteric, for the supply of the lower half of the large intestine. 8. The lumbar, a series of branches, analogous to the inter- costals, for the supply of the back part of the abdomen. Now we shall trace these branches throughout in such order as is most convenient. Let us take the caeliac axis first. To dissect this artery and its branches the liver must be well raised, as in fig. 62, and a layer of peritoneum removed from the gastro-hepatic omentum. You will soon find that there is a close network of very tough tissue about all the visceral branches of the aorta. This tissue consists almost entirely of plexuses of nerves, derived from the sympathetic system. Of all these plexuses, the largest surrounds the cseliac axis Uke a ring. It is called the solar plexus * or, more appropriately, the brain of the abdomen, for it contains' a large quantity of ganglionic matter. From this, as from a root, other secondary plexuses branch off, and twine round the arteries; * This plexus IS formed by the junction of the two semilunar gangUa described in the Dissection of the Thorax, p. 106.BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 314 thus forming the phrenic plexus, the coronary, hepatic, splenic, superior mesenteric, renal, &c. It requires a very lean subject, and great anatomical dexterity to trace them. „ ,. . The coiliac axis arises from the front of the aorta, Caeliac axis and its between the pillars of the diaphragm, just above the branches. ^-^t^qj. border of the pancreas. It is a very thick trunk which, after a com-se of about half an inch, divides into three branches, — the coronaria ventriculi, the splenic, and the hepatic. PLAN OF THE BRANCHES OF THE C^aSLIAC AXIS. (Coronaria ventriculi. Caeliac axis • i Splenic vHepatic pancreaticse parvee. gastro-epiploica sinistra, vasa bre\da to etomach. pyloric. gastro-epiploica dextra cystic. [pancreatico- duodenales. I omental. The coronaria ventriculi, the smallest of the three, ascends a little to the left towards the oesophageal end of the stomach, and then curves along the upper border of the stomach towards the pylorus, where it inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. It gives branches to the oesophagus as well as to the stomach. The hepatic artery ascends between the layers of the lesser omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into branches for its several lobes. In its course to the Uver, it lies to the left of the bile duct, and in front of the portal vein: all three are contained in the right border of the lesser omentum. The hepatic gives off — a. The pyloric, which runs along the upper curve of the stomach and inosculates with the coronaria ventriculi. 6. The gastro-epiploica dextra, which runs behind the duo- denum, then along the gi-eat curve of the stomach, and inos- culates directly with the gastro-epiploica sinistra, a branch of the splenic. It gives off — 1. Branches to the pancreas aaid duodenumBRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 315 (pancreatico-duodenales). 2. Branches which descend to supply the great omentum. c. The cystic, which supplies the coats of the gall-bladder. The splenic, the largest of the thi-ee, proceeds tortuously along Pig. 62. DIAGBAM OP THE BEANCHES OF THE CiELIAC AXIS. (Pancreas in dotted outline beMnd the stomach.) 1. Coronaria ventricuH. 5. Gastro-epiploica dextra. 2. Splenic a. 6. Gastro-epiploica sinistra. 3. Hepatic a. 7. Vasa brevia. 4. Pylono a. 8. Superior mesenteric a. the upper border of the pancreas to the spleen, which it enters by numerous branches. It gives oflf-1. Several small branches to the pancreas, pancreaticcB parvce. One, rather larger than the rest, IS called pancreatica magna. 2. The gastro-epiploica si- mstra, which runs along the great curve of the stomach, and inos-316 VENA PORTiE. dilates witli the gastro-epiploica dextra. 3. Vasa brevia, which proceed between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, to the great end of the stomach. Thus the stomach is supplied with blood by four channels, which by their inosculations form a main artery along its lesser curve, another along its greater; from these, numerous branches are furnished to both sides of the stomach. The artery of the greater curve also sends down nume- rous branches to the omen- ^ig- *53. tum, which form a beautiful network between its layers. The advantage of this free inosculation of arteries about the stomach paust be appa- rent. Venaportae: The veins which its pecu- return the blood liarities. /. .i n i • ^ from the abdominal portion of the alimentary canal, the pancreas, and the spleen, have this peculiarity, that they do not empty them- selves into the vena cava, but all unite into one great vein, called the vena portae, which ramifies throughout the liver, and secretes the bile. The trunk of the vena portse itself is from three to four inches long; if you trace it down- wards you find that it is formed behind the pancreas, by the confluence of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins (fig. 63). Traced upwards you would find that at the transverse fissure of the liver it divides into branches corresponding to the several lobes of the organ. The DIAGRAM OF THE YliNA P0BT2E. (The arrow is'introduced behind the free border of the lesser omentum.)317 BKANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. vena portae, then, may be compared to the stem of a tree, of which the roots arise in the digestive organs, and the branches spread out in the liver. Eventually all the blood from the liver returns into the vena cava through the vense cavee hepaticse. The veins which empty themselves into the vena portjB are also peculiar, in that they have no valves. Therefore, if any obstruc- tion arise in the venous circulation through the liver, the roots of the portal vein are apt to become congested: this is a common cause of haemorrhoids, diarrhoea, hasmorrhage from the bowels, and. ascites. Leeches applied to the anus have been long recognised as beneficial in congestion of the liver. Bile duct '^^^ hepatic duct is soon joined by the cystic, or the duct from the gall-bladder. The common duct, ductus communis choledochus, thus formed, passes along the right edge of the lesser omentum, then behind the first portion of the duodenum, and opens obliquely into the back part of the second portion (p. 315). This common duct is from three to four inches long, and, if dis- tended, would be about the size of a small writing quill.* The great omentum, with the arch of the colon, must now be turned up over the chest, and the small intestines should be pushed towards the left side. Then, by removing a layer of peritoneum from the mesentery, we expose the mode in which this great artery ramifies so as to supply the small intestines. In making this dis- section, the mesenteric glands immediately attract notice. They lie in great nvimbers between the layers of the mesentery, and vary considerably in size. The fine tubes, called lacteal vessels, which traverse the glands, are too thin and transparent to be seen under ordinary circumstances. But in cases where sudden death has taken place during digestion, they are found distended with chyle, and can be traced into the glands from all parts of the small intes- tines, f After traversing the glands, they all eventually empty their contents into the receptaculum chyli (p. 103). * That the gaU-duct admits of being sometimes distended to a mueli larger size is proved by the passage of large gall-stones. t The arrangement of the chyliferous vessels is extremely well displayed in the beautiful plates of Mascagni.318 BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. This large artery descends beneath the pancreas and mesenteric over the transverse .part of the duodenum (p. 315), and artery and then runs between the layers of the mesentery towards ^ ' the right iliac fossa, where it terminates in branches for the supply of the caecum. Thus its course describes a gentle curve from left to right. The left or convex side of the curve gives off a series of branches (from ten to sixteen) to the small intestines; while the concave side furnishes the right colic and the middle colic arteries for the supply of the large intestines (fig. 64). Fig. 64. 1. Superior mesenteric a. 2. Colica media. 3. Colica dextra. 4. Ileo-colica. 5. Inferior mesenteric a. 6. Colica sinistra. 7. Arteria sigmoidea. 8. Superior hemorrhoidal a. PLAN OF THE MESENTEHIC AHTEEIES, ANB THEIR COMMXTNICATION. Now we should trace the branches to the small intestines,,in order to see the beautiful series of arches which they form by their mutual inosculations. There are three or fom- tiers of them, each tier smaller than the preceding. The ultimate branches ramify in circles round the intestine. This circular arrangement of the vessels in the coats of the bowel is practically interesting, because it enables one in almost all cases to distinguish the intestine from the hernial sac.319 BRANCHES Or ABDOMINAL AORTA. The colic branches of the superior mesenteric are—the right colic, which proceeds towards the ascending colon, and the middle colic, which ascends between the layers of the meso-colon to the arch. They are arranged after the same plan as those of the small intestines; that is, they inosculate so as to form a series of arches which successively decrease in size, and finally terminate in circles round the bowel. Eemember that the superior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pancreas, and forms the vena portse (p. 316). Inferior artery, the small intestines must be mesenteric drawn over towards the right side. It is given off about toSes!'^ .'"^^^^^ ^^o'^^ bifurcation of the aorta. Descend- ing into the pelvis over the left common iliac artery, it passes between the layers of the meso-rectum, and, taking the name of superior hemorrhoidal, is finally distributed to the upper part of the rectum. Its branches are—1. the colica sinistra, which supplies the descending colon; 2. the sigmoidea, which supplies the sigmoid flexure. These inosculate in the form of arches. The colica sinistra, too, forms a large arterial arch with the colica media, so that there is a chain of arterial communications from one end to the other of the intestinal canal (fig. 64). The inferior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pancreas. In order to. complete our knowledge of the position of the duo- denum and the pancreas, a ligature should now be placed on the upper end of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sig- moid flexure of the colon, and the intermediate portions of the small and large intestine should be removed. By simply tm-ning up the stomach we expose at once the horse-shoe course of the duo- denum round the great end of the pancreas, and the several rela- tions of this portion of the alimentary canal described (p. 304). Pancreas. . ^^^^ great salivary gland of the abdomen and _ IS situated immediately behind the stomach (p 315^' Tf IS of a somewhat elongated form. The larger portion or hend I embraced by the duodenum, and from this L gland eie'd^^^^^^^^^^^ the spine to the spleen. Like all other salivai-; glands, it t ml320 KIDNEYS AND URETER. abundantly supplied with blood: it receives numerous branches from the splenic artery, which runs along its upper border ; some from the superior mesenteric, which lies beneath it, and others from the gastro-epiploica dextra. Its duct runs through it from end to end,''and opens into the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum, close to the opening of the bile duct. Sometimes the two ducts terminate by a common orifice; so that nature intends the fluids to mix. The use of the pancreatic fluid is to dissolve and form an emulsion with the fatty matters of the food. The liver, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen, should now be collectively removed. For this purpose it is necessary to cut through the ligaments of the liver, the venEB cavse hepatic^, and the branches of the celiac axis. These viscera, as well as the remainder of the intestinal canal, should be macerated m water, while-you examine all that is to be seen at the back of the abdomen; namely, the deep-seated muscles, the aorta and vena cava, the kidneys, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the sympa- thetic nerve. , , • The kidneys are placed in the lumbar region, one on Kidneys and ^^^^ ^^^^ of the spine. They lie imbedded in more or less fat, on the quadratus lumborum and the psoas muscles pretty nelrly opposite the two lower dorsal and the two up;t UiLar'verteb; J On the top of each is a little body, hke ■I cocked hat, called the renal capsule. We have no difiiculty in acing the ureter, or excretory duct of the kidney. It descends almost v'ertically on the psoas muscle, enters the peh.. over h division of the common iliac artery, and empties itself mto the lowe part of the bladder, after running obliquely through its coats. Eemember that in front of the right kidney is he liver, the as- cen"olon, and the vertical portion of the duodenum ; m front of theleft, the descending colon, part of the spleen and pancre^. This explins how it is that a renal abscess or a calculus is some- times evacuated by stool.* . Th. p^xMt, o. fte colo. to ti. ™.e» il™ ... . P»"l. ^^'^^^l ^DIAPHRAGM. 321 Diaphragm "^'^^^ ^ partly muscular and partly tendinous arch, so constructed as to form a complete moveable partition between the chest and the belly—a floor for the one, and a roof for the other. We cannot see the structure of the arch until its peritoneal lining is removed. We then observe that there is a broad tendon in the centre, and that muscular fibres converge to it Kg. 65. 1. Aorta passing be- tween the crura. 2. Opening for ceso- pliagus. 3. Opening for vena cara. Quadratus lum- borum. Psoas magnus. The darlc arches are the " arcu- ate ligaments." DIAGEAM OF THE DIAPHEAGM, THE OPENINGS IN IT, -AND THE PHEENIC AETEEIES. from all sides (fig. 65). What then is the origin of the diaphragm ? 1st, from the ensiform cartilage; 2dly, from the inside of^he cartilages of the six lower ribs by as many digitations, which cor- respond with those of the transverse muscle of the abdomen • Sdly m the interval between the last rib and the spine, they arise from' two thm tendinous arches*, thrown, the one over the quadratus is related by Velpeau. It occurred at the Hospital of La Piti^. A pin the head of which was stm found in the colon, in which it had produced considerablVceration had passed also into the ureter, so that a calculus, of which the pin formed the S; STir^'^T ^"^^^^"^^ °' * These arches are commonly called resDPpHvplv tl,«>;;^„.322 DIAPHRAGM. lumteum. the other over the psoas muscle; lastly, frota the front of the bodies of the lurobar vertebrte by two elongated bucdlex, iued the c™™ of the diaphragm. Between them the aorta ^ters the abdomen. Observe that both crura have t^udmou origins, but that the right crus is a little longer than the left ; tor it arkes from the bodies of the three or four upper umbar vertebra Id their intervening cartilages, whereas the left does not descend low bv one vertebra. rrlmVse various origins, the fibres ascend at ^^fJ^'^Z tically, and then all arch inwards, and are tnsM into the central *"The" «*ai tenchn^s nearly the highest part of f<'^-V^^-^- It presents a beautiful glistening surface, owing to the various direct Sin which its fibres cross each other; and rts shape may be rudely compared to that of a trefoil leaf. The chrcf pomt o Lut L ^^x^^^^^ I fixed point for the insertion of the muscular fibres of the dia There are three openings in the diaphra^ for the SSTaf " transmission of the aorta, the cesophagus, and the ve^ ptogm. respectively. The aortic openmg is between the .l„,e to the snine ; it transmits, also, the vena azygos and r bot:: .U.. ne r.tber to tb^rigb^^^^^^^^ aorta Trace tbe crura upwards, and you mil observe tbat ^^^^^^^^^^ of eacb cross eacb otber in front of tbe aorta somewbat like the of each cros and a little towards tbe eft letter X. Just aoove uue • ' . i= pntii-elv mnsculai-, •1^ it tbe oesopbap-eal opening; this is entueiy m :hereL U ao^is 'partly tenLous. The opening for the vena p„.»= totted.. ».d '"^^r:^::!^!^ me™ el.e codd tie Hbr.. take origii. tte .» „,„ „ • TUB deciuMtion i« not mamblc. But ta« "E les. 07» tke left, so thit the e.«i« are never enictly pB.Uel.323 DIAPHRAGM. cava is situated in the central tendon, rather to the right of the middle line ; and you observe that the vein is intimately connected to its margin, so that it may be kept permanently open. Lastly, there pass through the crus, on each side, the sympathetic, the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves. Function of ^he diaphragm is the great muscle concerned in in- phragm 'P^'''''^^^^' ^^^^ therefore, truly say, with Haller, that it is " musculus post cor nobilissimus." During in- spiration, the muscular sides of the diaphragm contract and become less arched (as shown by the dotted line in fig. 66); the floor of the chest sinks in conse- Fig. 66. quence, and more room is made for the expansion of the lungs. During expira- tion the diaphragm relaxes and is forced up to its former position by the pressure of the abdominal muscles on the viscera. This alternate falling and rising of the dia- phragm constitutes the me- chanical part of the breath- ing. But the diaphragm conduces to the performance of many other functions. Acting in concert with the abdominal muscles, it assists in the expulsion of the fteces and the urine, also in parturition and in vomiting: for in all these operations, we first take in a deep breath, that the dia- phragm may be in a state of contraction, and so form a resisting surface against which the viscera may be compressed by the ab"- dominal muscles Moreover, by its rapid or spasmodic contrac- tions it IS one of the chief agents concerned in laughing, sneezin^, coughing, hiccough. * The nerves of the diaphragm are the phrenic (p. 91), and the five T 2 DIAPHBAGM PBOM ITS XJPPEB STJEFACE. (The dotted lines show how much it descends when it contracts.)324 PSOAS MAGNUS. or six lower intercostal nerves on each side. Its blood-vessels are tteTwo"irrenic from tire aorta, some branotes from the rnternal mnmmarv (p. 84), and the lower intercostal. , , , , mammary U>^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^.^^^ ^, ^ P.»» vertebras into the thigh. In dissecting this '"»«=le 'alte '»°^°°''' care, 1st, of the sheath in which it is contained; 2dly, ot the branches ot the lumbax plexus which '^-^^'S'^ 'l'l^; 3dly, of the sympathetic nerve, which runs down the spme close and nearly parallel to its inner border. it, attach- Resoectino the sheath of the psoas, we have to notice it;> attacn mentt t "sides of the vertebra and the brim f^^^Ve^^o.^ is this which determines the ordinary course X. namelv beneath the crural arch into the upper part of the thign , ?o"t fa'a are exception when the matter travels into the pelvis The psoi «™Aom the bodies and transverse processes of the lu^ar verteL, and their intervening fibro-cartdages; hut, ob- s rve ouTy 1 the projecting borders ot verteb^, no from :r:;ntr^g.oovedpart:he.^h^ab^^^^^^^^ rTtt™r:rltt TZ^^ ^ — by a strong imte aSly^ver the capsule ot the hip Pint, «d tee is a la^ bursa between thern to tL,^:" in" t^ng sub- i +T.^« Wsa communicates with the capsule ot tne mp J tear, this hursa comm g. to mention one only, it ^x^ir rr^sr !^~-es ma.es it. way into the hip ^--^ttltS-nsubjectswe^^^^^^^^^^ dorsal and tne nrbt n- . cartilage; thence "ing - front of ff j^^^^^^,^,^ ends in a long flat tendon, which spreads out, and the brim of the pelvis.QUADRATUS LUMBORUM. 325 Y 3 Iluicus iu- '^^"^ muscle occupies the iliac fossa, and is covered by eruus and a fascia, which first claims attention. This iliac fascia, as it is called, is attached to the crest of the ilium, and indirectly to the brim of the pelvis through its connection with the sheath of the psoas. But its most important attachment is to the outer half of the crural arch ; here it is directly continuous with the fascia transversalis (p, 297), so that together they present an eflfectual barrier to the escape of intestine beneath this part of the arch.* To return to the muscle. It arises from the iliac fossa, from the ilio-lumbar ligamentf, also from the capsule of the hip joint. The fibres pass beneath the crural arch, and are inserted into the tendon of the psoas. Thus the two muscles, so far as their action goes, may be considered as one. The combined action of the psoas and iliacus is to assist in rais- ing the body from the recumbent position, and to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh: this supposes the fixed point to be at the trochanter minor. But supposing the fixed point to be at the spine, then the muscle can raise and rotate the femur outwards. It is this action which is so troublesome to counteract in fractures of the upper third of the femur. Quadratus '^^i^ muscle extends from the crest of the ilium to the himbonm ^^st rib, aud is contained in a sheath formed for it by the sheati. aponeurotic origin of the transversalis (p. 290). The anterior layer" of its sheath is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebree, and the posterior layer to their summits. The muscle arises from about an inch and a • half of the crest of the ilium and from the ilio-lumbar ligament: it ascends nearly perpendicularly, and is inserted into the last rib, * The iUae fossEe are very Hable to be the seat of suppiiration, and the eoxu-se which the matter takes depends upon its position with regard to the iliac fascia If the matter be seated in the loose cellular tissue between the peritoneum and the fascia it usuaUy advances just above the crest of the iUum, or else towards the groin tliroiU the inguinal canal; but, if seated beneath the fascia, the chances are that the matter will make its way under the crural axch towards the upper and outer part of the thigh thiilkm ^""^ °^ tlie last lumbar vertebra to326 RELATIONS OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. and into the front of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrJB by as many tendinous slips. In addition to these we commonly find that a few fibres take origin from the transverse processes, and run up to the last rib, crossing the front of the other part of the muscle. The principal use of the muscle is to steady the spine; it also steadies the last rib, and enables it to serve as a fixed point for the action of the intercostal muscles and the diaphragm.* " . . „ By raising the quadratus, we observe the aponeurotic origin ot the transversalis from the summits of the transverse processes: this constitutes the posterior part of its sheath, and separates the muscle from the great erector spinse; Before you examine the course of the aorta and its great primary divisions, do n'ot omit to notice that a chain of absorbent glands extends along the brim of the pelvis and the bodies of the lumbar vertebra, following pretty nearly the course of the great blood- vessels. Generally speaking they are small, and only one here and there attracts observation. They transmit the lymphatics from the lower limbs, the abdominal wall, and the testicle; and all eventually lead to the receptaculum chyli, or the begmmng of he thoracic duct (p. 103). This is usually found on the right of the aorta, close to the second lumbar vertebra. The aorta enters the abdomen between the crura f£tZi of the diaphragm about the last dorsal vertebra, and nal aorta. descends nearly perpendicularly in front ot the spme as low as the fourth lumbar, where it divides rather to the Mt o . the mesial line, into the two common iliac arteries. The point oi tiZ cannoi be specified with precision, because vanes m d f^Brent subjects. But for all practical purposes it is sufficient to "at its division takes place about the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium. The aorta is crossed m front by the pancreas, the duodenum, and the right renal vem. * The respective attachments of the quadratus himborum, the crossing of "res :r;;Li:::;^«—^^^^^ thit we can cut down to open the lai-ge bowel without wounding the peritoneum.VENA CAVA INFERIOE. 327 y 4 The vena cava inferior is formec^ by tlie junction of Ju^oi^^ the two common iliac veins. It ascends on the right of the aorta, close to the spine in the greater part of its course. As it approaches the diaphragm, the vena cava passes off a little to the right, to go through its tendinous opening in the diaphragm, and so reach the right side of the heart. Its relations, beginning from below, are: 1. the mesentery; 2. the left renal artery which runs behind it; 3. the duodenum and head of the pancreas; 4. the liver. It receives the lumbar veins, the right spermatic, (the left joins the left renal,) the renal, the capsular, the phrenic, and lastly the hepatic. The branches of the aorta we have still to examine arise from it in pairs, namely—the phrenic, capsular, renal, spermatic, and lumbar. See diagram, p. 312. These arteries supply the diaphragm, and arise from arteries. ^""^ aorta as soon as it comes through the pillars. The right phrenic passes behind the vena cava, the left behind the oesophagus, and both ramify extensively on the correspond- ing sides of the muscle (p. 321). Their first branches, however, are sent to the renal capsules. Their ultimate ramifications extend to the circumference of the chest, and inosculate with the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. The phrenic veins terminate in the inferior vena cava. The capsular arteries proceed to the renal capsules. The capsular veins terminate on the right side in the vena cava, on the left in the renal. Eenal The renal arteries come from the aorta at right arteries and angles, and run transversely to the kidneys. Both are covered by their corresponding veins. The right is necessarily longer than the left, and crosses beneath the vena cava. Each enters its kidney, not as one trunk, but by several branches, corresponding to the original lobes of the organ. The renal veins lie in front of the arteries, and join the vena cava at right angles. The left is longer than the right, and has to cross over the aorta; it receives the spermatic and capsular veins of its own side.328 COMMON ILIAC AllTEEIES. The„spermatic arteries arise from the front of the Spermatic " , mi i t i arteries and aorta a little below the renal. They descend along the psoas muscle, and then through the inguinal canal to the testicle. In the female, the corresponding arteries proceed between the layers of the broad ligament to the ovaries. Each artery is accompanied by two very tortuous veins, which unite and then empty themselves, on the right side, into the vena cava; on the left, into the renal vein. Lumbar There are five of these arteries on either side: four artoieTand arise from the aorta, the fifth comes from the arteria branches. ^^^^^ media. They are strictly repetitions of the inter- costal arteries on a small scale, so that "lumbar intercostals" would be an appropriate name for them. They proceed outwards over the bodies of the vertebras towards the inter-vertebral foramina, and then, like the thoracic intercostals, divide into dorsal and abdominal branches. The dorsal branches pass between the transverse processes to the muscles of the back, and are of a size proportionate to the large development of these muscles. They also send arteries into the spinal canal. The abdominal branches all run outwards behind the quadratus lumborum, except the last, which commonly runs in front. After supplying the quadratus and psoas, they are lost in the waU of the abdomen.* The lumbar veins empty themselves into the vena cava. The two common iliac arteries resulting from the L™"a^^' bifurcation of the aorta opposite the fourth kmibar ■VT3INS. vertebra, diverge from each other at an acute angle, towards the sacro-iliac sy^nphysis, and, after a course of about two inches, divide into the external and internal iliac. They lie close to the vertebrae, and each, at or near its point of division is crossed by the ureter: the left one is also crossed by the colon. * Just as the thoracic intercostals, by communicating ^rith the internal mamTnary, form a yascdar ring round the chest, so do the lumbar, by communicatmg with he epigastric, form a vascular ring, though a less perfect one, round the walls of the abdomen.EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 329 But tlie most important relation of these arteries, in a practical point of view, is their position with regard to their correspond- ing veins. In consequence of the vena cava lying on the right of the aorta, you see that the right common iliac artery crosses over both the common iliac veins. It is also very closely connected to them. For these reasons it is easier to pass a ligature round the left artery than the right; for though its vein lies on its inner side, it is sufficiently far off to be out of the way of danger. With the parts now before you, consider what would be the easiest way of performing this operation. Several modes have been recommended. Upon-the whole, the best authorities* agree that the artery is most accessible from behind. An incision should be made perpendicularly from the end of the last rib to the ilium; another transversely along the margin of this bone nearly to its spine. We then cut, layer after layer, through the abdominal muscles till the peritoneum is exposed; this is easily raised from the iliac fascia, and with it the ureter is raised too. The applica- tion of the ligature is, after all, the most delicate part of the ope- ration. It ought to be placed, as near as possible, midway between the origin and the division of the artery, so that there may be room enough for the formation of a clot on either side.f ExTEENAi This artery passes along the brim of the pelvis, on the ILIAC inner side of the psoas, and then running under the AETERY. Ill crm-al arch about midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, takes the name of femoral. The corresponding vein lies close to its inner side, and on a posterior TOl. » Consult some obaeryations in point by Sir P. Crampton, in Med. Cbir Trans '1 XTl. t It IS important to be aware that the length of the common iUae artery is apt to Tay. in different persons. I have seen it from three-fourths of an inch to three and a half mches long. These varieties may arise either from a high division of the aorta or a low division of the common ihac, or both. It is impossible to ascertain beforehand what wiU be its length in a given instance, for tLe is no nocess'i^ relation between i s length and the height of the adult individual. It is often IZ short in men of tall stature, and vice vcrscl Anatomists generally describe th e t"3 rather longer han the right; but, from the examination of 100 bodies, I conclude tha their average length is the same. i-ouuuae inaiEXTERNAL ILIAC AKTERY. 330 plane. After the removal of the peritoneum, notice that the artery is not bai-e, but covered by a thin layer of fascia which binds it down to the psoas. There are only two other circumstances of practical interest respecting this artery; 1st, a slender nerve, the genito- crural, runs close to its outer side; 2dly, just before it leaves the pelvis it is crossed by the circumflexa ilii vein. The branches given off by this artery are — The epigastric, already described (p. 298). The circumflexa ilii, which arises just above the crural arch, and runs towards the spine of the ilium in a sheath formed for it by the fascia iliaca.* In the dissection of the-abdominal muscles (p. 289), we saw the continuation of it skirting the crest of the ilium be- tween the internal oblique and the transversalis, and sending a branch upwards between these muscles for their supply. The main trunk, much reduced in size, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar derived from the internal ibac. How to tie '^^^ easiest way of tying the external iliac is to make a the external curved incision at the lower part of the belly, beginning a little above the middle of the crural arch, and ending a little beyond the spine of the ibum. The' strata of the abdominal muscles, with the fascia transversahs, should then be divided to the same extent; after which, the peritoneum can be readily raised by the finger from the iliac fossa. It is necessary to make a small incision through the sheath of the vessel, in order to facilitate the passage of the needle. Eemember that the vein is closely con- nected to its inner sidef, and that the genito-crural nerve is not far off. * The course of this artery shoiild 1)6 borne in mind in opening iliac abscesses. t This relative position of the vessels must not always be taken for granted. In old subjects, less frequently in adults, it is sometimes found that the external iHac artery runs very tortuously, instead of nearly straight, along the bnm of the pelvis. Eut the vein does not foUow the artery in its windings, and may possibly Ue outside the artery just where we iDropose to place the Hgatm-e. The mode of performing the operation described in the text is recommended by Sir~A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy, however, who first set the example of tying this artery, in 1796, adopted a somewhat different proceeding. He says: "I first made an incision about three inches in length through the integuments of the abdomen, m the direction of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the extexnal obliqueSYMPATHETIC NERVE. 331 Eespecting the general plan upon whicli the sympa- Tic^Bvu" thetic nerve is arranged, refer to what has already been said of it in the dissection of the neck (p. 80). Our present business is with the lumbar portion of it. The abdominal part of the sympathetic nerve descends, on either side, in front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrje, along the inner border of the psoas. The nerve has a ganglion opposite each lumbar vertebra, so that there are five on each side. Each of these ganglia receives two branches from the corresponding spinal nerve, just as in the chest; and, on the other hand, gives off fila- ments, of which some twine round the aorta, and accompany the inferior mesenteric and spermatic arteries to the large intestine and the testicle; but the greater number terminate in the hypogastric plexus. The hypogastric plexus is situated between the" com- ^exuf^^*^^" ili^c arteries on the last lumbar and first sacral vertebra. It consists of an inextricable interlacement of nerves, partly sympathetic and partly spinal, and is a sort of nerve- centre for the supply of the pelvic viscera, like the solar plexus (round the coeliac axis) is for the abdominal. The minute fila- ments proceeding from it accompany the visceral branches of the internal iliac artery, and supply the bladder, prostate gland, rectum, and, in the female, the uterus and vagina. Thus we have the vesical, heemorrhoidal, uterine, and vaginal plexuses. Of these, however, none are seen in an ordinary dissection. Ltjmbab This plexus is formed by the union of the four upper PLEXUS OF lumbar nerves (fig. 67). It lies over the transverse NEEVES. - ,, processes ol the correspondmg vertebrse, imbedded in the substance of the psoas, so that this muscle must be scraped away before it can be seen. Like the brachial plexus, the nerves com- muscle, whicli I next divided from its connection with Poupart's ligament in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles being thus exposed, I introduced my finger beneath them for the protection of the peritoneum, and then divided them Next, ^v-ith my hand, I pushed the peritoneum and its contents upwards and inwards! and took hold of the artery." 'LUMBAR PLEXUS. 332 posing it Successively increase in size from above. Its branches are five in number, and generally arise in the following order : — The first lumbar nerve is, both in course and distribution, analogous to an intercostal nerve, and may, therefore, be appro- priately called the lumbar intercostal* It crosses obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium, and then. Fig. 67. a. Ilio-hypogastric b. llio-inguinal n. c. External cutaneous n. d. Anterior crural n. e. Crural branch of genito- crural n. /. Obturator n. g. Genital branch of genito- crural n. h. Lumbo-sacral n. plAk of the xcjdbae plexus and beanches. entering the abdominal wall, proceeds round to the front and ter- minates in the skin of the hypogastrium. Like the other inter- costals, it gives off a lateral cutaneous branch ; this is larger than the others, and runs over the crest of the ilium to supply the skin of the buttock. * It often happens tliat the first lumbar nerve divides into two branches: of these, the upper is generaUy termed the ilio-hypogastric ; the lower, the ilio-inguinaL But both run nearly a similar course, and have a similar distxibution.333 LUMBAR PLEXUS. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh (c) is generally de- rived from the second lumbar nerve. It runs through the psoas, then, crossing obliquely the iliacus towards the spine of the ilium, passes beneath the crural arch, and is finally distributed to the skin on the outside of the thigh.* The genito-cniral nerve is of small size, and generally comes from the second lumbar. After perforating the psoas, it descends along the outer side of the external iliac artery, and near the crural arch divides into the genital branch ((/), which runs through the inguinal canal, and is lost in the cremaster muscle, — and the crural (e), which proceeds under the crural arch, and is lost in the skin of the upper part of the thigh. The anterior crural (d) is the largest and most important branch of the plexus, and is generally formed by the union of the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It descends in a groove between the psoas and the iliacus, supplies both these muscles, and then, passing under the crural arch, is finally distributed to the extensor muscles and the skin of the thigh. The obturator nerve (/) is next in size to the anterior crural. It proceeds from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, descends by the side of the pelvis to the obturator foramen, and is distributed to the adductor muscles of the thigh. Postponing the minute anatomy of the abdominal viscera, let us begin the examination of the contents of the pelvis. DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. First refresh your memory of the purposes served by the pelvis, and, what is of more practical importance, of the direction of its axis. The purposes of the pelvis are to protect its own viscera, and to support those of the abdomen ; to give attachment to the muscles which steady the trunk; to transmit the weight of the trunk to the * If the external cutaneous be not seen in its usual situation, look for it is i dis tinct branch of the anterior crural, nearer the psoas muscle. ' '334 CONTENTS OF MALE PELVIS. lower limbs, and to give origin to the muscles wliich move them. In adaptation to these functions, the form of the pelvis is that of a perfect arch, with broadly expanded wings at the sides, and pro- jections in appropriate situations to increase the leverage of the muscles. The sacrum, impacted between the iha, represents the key-stone of the arch, and is capable of supporting not only the trunk, but great burdens besides. The sides or pillars are repre- sented by the ilia; these transmit the weight to the heads of the thigh bones, and are thickest and strongest just in that line, i. e. the brim of the pelvis, along which the weight is transmitted. Moreover, to effect the direct transmission of the weight, the plane of the arch is obhque. This obliquity of the pelvis, its hollow expanded sides, its great width, the position and strength of the tuberosities ®f the ischia, are so many proofs that man is adapted to the erect posture. The general conformation of the pelvis in the female is modified, so as to be better adapted to utero-gestation and parturition. Its breadth and capacity are greater than in the male. Its depth is less. The alae of the iliac bones are more expanded. The pro- jection of the sacrum is less perceptible, and consequently the brim is more circular. Above all, the span of the pubic arch is wider. The bones, too, are thinner, and the muscular impressions less strongly marked. The cavity of the pelvis being curved, the axis, or a central line drawn through it, must be curved in proportion. For all practical purposes, it is • sufficient to remember that the axis of the pelvis corresponds with a line drawn from the anus to the umbilicus.* Contents '^^^ male pelvis contains the last part of the intestinal OF THE MALE canal, named the " rectum," the bladder with the pros- tate gland at the neck, and the vesiculse seminales. If PELYIS. * In a well-formed female tlie base of the sacrum is about four inches higher than the upper part of the symphysis pubis, and the point of the coccyx is rather more than half an inch higher than the lower part of the symphysis. The obliquity of the pelvis is greatest in early life. In the fcetus, and in young children, its capacity is small; and the Tiscera, which subsequently belong to it, are situated in the abdomen.RECTO-VESICAL POUCH. 335 the bladder be empty, there will also be some of the small intes- tines in the pelvis; not so if the bladder be distended. The rectum enters the pelvis on the left side of the the^ecton s^^"^^^"^? ^^^j ^^^^^ describing a curve corresponding with the concavity of the sacrum, terminates at the anus. Observe, that, in the first part of its course, it is loosely connected to the back of the pelvis by a peritoneal fold, called the " meso- redum;" and that between the layers of this fold the terminal branches (superior heemorrhoidal) of the inferior mesenteric vessels with nerves and absorbents run to the bowel. It is worth remembering that the rectum does not take this course in all cases; sometimes it makes one, or even two lateral curves. In some rare cases it enters the pelvis on the right side instead of the left. Since these variations from the usual arrange- ment cannot be ascertained during life, they should make us cautious in the introduction of bougies ; for such things have hap- pened as a perforation of the intestine by a bougie.* Whilst the parts are still undisturbed, you should poucL^^''"''^ introduce the finger into what is called the recto-vesical peritoneal pouch (fig. 68). This is a cul-de-sac formed by the peritoneum in passing from the front of the rectum to the lower and back part of the bladder. Now, in the adult male subject, the bottom of this pouch is about one inch distant from the base of prostate gland f : therefore a part of the under surface of the bladder is not covered by peritoneum; and since this part is in immediate contact with the rectum, it is practicable to tap the distended bladder through the front of the bowel without injuring the peritoneum. The operation has, of late years, been revived by surgeons of good repute, and with great success, J It is easily done, and not attended with much risk, provided all the parts be in their regular position. But this is not always the case. It some- * ""^1 f ?*T a ^ig-^'-vg appearance immediately above the r" V wr'i ^'J inehnations are probably produced by the enormous distensions ro which the bowel has been occasionally subjected. "''cusions t The bottom of the pouch is from tliree to four inches distant from the anus t See a paper m the Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxv. by Mr. Cock.336 RECTO-VESICAL POUCH. times happens that the peritoneal poiich comes down nearer to the prostate than usual — I have seen it in actual contact with the gland; so that in such a case it would be next to impossible to tap the bladder from the rectum without going through the peritoneum. In children the peritoneum comes down lower than it does in the adult, because the bladder in the child is not a pelvic viscus. _ Kg. 68. Symphysis pubis Corpus cavernosum peuis Glaus penis Corpus spongiosum uretlirse . . . . Bulb of corp. spon- giosum . . . • Cowper's gland with ituct Membranous part of urelhrasurroiind. ed by compressor muscle. Prostate gland . . Peritoneum in dot- ted outline. Ureter. Vas deferens. Vesicula semina- lis. DIAGEAM OF THE BEXATIVE POSITION OF THE PELVIC VISCEEA. The recto-vesical pouch is permanent. -But there is another peritoneal pouch on the front part of the bladder which is only produced when the bladder is distended. Let us, therefore, blow uv the bladder through one of the ureters. It soon fiUs the pelvis, and then, rising into the abdomen, occasions the pouch m question between it and the abdominal wall. At first, the pouch is shallow but it gradually deepens as the bladder rises. Now, supposing that the bladder be distended half way up to the umbihcus which is commonly the case when it has to be tapped, we should find that the bottom of the pouch would be about two inches from the sym-MALE PERINEUM. 337 physis pubis (fig. 68). • Within tliis distance from the symphysis the bladder may be tapped in the linea alba, without risk of wounding the peritoneum. Thus, the surgeon has the choice of two situations in which he may tap the bladder,—above the pubes, or from the rectum. Which of the two be the more appropriate must be decided by the circumstances of the case. Fig. 69. DISSECTION OF THE MALE PEEINEUM. Examine first the osseous and ligamentous boundaries of the lower aperture of the pelvis. Looking at a male pelvis (with the ligaments preserved), we observe that this aperture is of a lozenge shape; that it is bounded in front by the symphysis of the pubes, laterally by the rami of the pubes and ischium; behind by the coccyx and the great sacro-ischiatic ligaments. This space, for convenience of description, is divided into two by an imagmary line drawn from one tuber ischii to the other. The anterior' forms a nearly equilateral triangle, of which the sides are from three to three and a half inches long; and since it transmits the urethra, we call it the urethral division of the perineum. The posterior, containing the anus, is called the anal division (fig. 69, 1, 2).* The subject is supposed to be placed in the usual position for lithotomy, with a full-sized staff in the bladder, and the rectum artificially distended. Observe that a central ridge, named the ra'phe, extends from the anus along the peri- neum the scrotum, and the under surface of the penis. In the lateral operation of lithotomy the incision should commence an » It is well to bear in mind that the dimensions of the lower outlet nf t1,o i • are apt to va:y in different subjects, and the Hthotomi t mtTst mod 1, accordingly. "uwmist must modify his incisions DIAGEAM OF THE FRAOTWOKK OF THE PEErNEUM. Z338 MALE PERINEUM. inch and a quarter above the anus, close to the left side of the raphe: it should be carried downwards and outwards for three inches towards the tuber ischii. In the bilateral operation the incision is semilunar, the horns being made on either side be- tween the tuber ischii and the anus, equidistant from these pomts respectively; while the centre of the incision runs about three- quarters of an inch above the anus. At the anus the skin becomes finer and more delicate, Anal glands, ^^^.^-^g ^ gradual transition towards mucous mem- brane ; and during life it is drawn into wrinkles by the permanent contraction of the cutaneous sphincter. Moreover, the skm at the margin of the anus is richly provided with minute glands , which secrete an unctuous substance to facilitate the passage of the fa3ces. When this secretion becomes defective or vitiated, the anal cuta- neous folds are apt to become excoriated, chapped, or fissured; and then defoecation becomes exceedingly painful. It matters little how we reflect the skin. A conve- Subcuta- i^ient way is to make an incision down the raphe, around the anus, to the coccyx. Two others may then be made . on each side at right angles to the first, the one at the upper, the other at the lower end of it. Thus the skm of the permeum xnay be turned back Hke folding doors. In reflecting the s^m we have to notice the characters of the subcutaneous structure.t Now its characters alter in adaptation to the exigencies of each part On the scrotum the fat constituent of the tissue is entirely and for tZ reasons absent, while the fibro-cellu^r element^^^^^^^^^^^ abundant, and during life elastic and contractile. But, as we leceae tm the scrotum and approach the anus, the fat accumulates more . These glands .e the andthe Wer. - ^ not o^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ tissue of the f^-^^-^^^^^^ 'J^^ to be seen ^th the naked eye. Professor Quekett. Ihey are large cuuug t The probable tHekness of tMs ^^^^^^^^^ tMckness in determined by the Hthotomist m making his ^^'^ '^^""l^. ^.tt.r some eases explains the depth to ^hich the siu-geon has to cut m lettang from the ischio-rectal fossa.339 MALE PEKINKUM. Z 2 and more, aud on either side of the rectum it is found in re^cVid^f*s»' shape of large masses, filling up what would other- wise be two deep hollows in this situation, namely the ischio-rectal fossK. The purpose of this accumulation of fat on each side of the anus, is to permit the easy distention and contrac- tion of the lower end of the bowel during and after the passage of the faeces.* Again, over the tuberosity of the ischia we meet with large masses of fat, separated by tough fibrous septa passing from the skin to the bone, so as to make an elastic padding to sit upon. Occasionally, too, there are' one or more large bursce in- terposed between this padding and the bone. ^ So much respecting the general characters of this subcutaneous tissue of the perineum. Some anatomists describe it as consisting of three, four, or even more layers, but in nature we do not find it so. We may, indeed, divide it into as many layers as we please according to our skill in dissection ; but this only complicates what is, in itself, simple. Now examine the cutaneous sphincter muscle of the anus, and the superficial vessels and nerves of the perineum. Cutaneous .^^^ cutaneous sphincter of the anus arises from the sphmcter point of the coccyx, and from the ano-coccygeal liga- ment. The muscular fibres surround the anus, and are lost in a pointed manner in the tendinous centre of the perineum (p. 342). It is called the cutaneous sphincter to distinguish it from a deeper and more powerful band of muscular fibres which surrounds the last inch or more of the rectum, and is situated nearer to the mucous membrane. Cutaneous cutaneous vessels and nerves of the perineum vessels and come from the internal pudic artery and nerve and _ ■ _ chiefly from that branch ef it called the superficialis perme^. This we shall trace more fully presently. Besides this, a cutaneous nerve is sent to these parts from the lesser ischiatic, * It is this fat in the ischio-rectal fossae which renders them so liable to ^h. n rence of pec^iliarly fcBtid gangrenous abscesses. These should Z . . possible, lest they burst into the rectum • and one t J ^ \ """'^^ introduced in order to reach the seat oJl ^Tef. " ''"^'^340 MALE PERINEUM. called the long ^pudendal nerve (p. 342). It comes through the muscular fascia of the thigh a little above the tuber ischii, and ascends, dividing into filaments, which supply the skin of the peri- neum and scrotum. As we remove the fat from the ischio-rectal fossa, we observe that a number of vessels and nerves run through it in a transverse du-ection from the ramus of the ischium towards the anus. These are the external or inferior hcemorrhoidal, and proceed from the pudic, which may be felt on the inner side of the ischium. They sometimes bleed freely in layiilg open a fistula. When the subcutaneous structure is fairly cleared ofi, or mSculL we come to the fascia which invests the muscles of the wrof the perineum, and is, in every sense, analogous to muscular pei-ineum. ^^^^^ p^^^^^ Only covers the muscles collectively, but provides each with a distinct sheath. At the same time it is much less dense, though more elastic than the strong fascia, - say, for instance, of the limbs: there is, indeed, so much resemblance between it and the deeper strata of the subcutaneous tissue, that you will hardly recognise any distinct demarcation be- tween them. Now what are its connections? 1, It is attacliea on either side to the anterior lip of the rami of the pubes and ischium: 2, traced forwards it is found to be directly continuous with the tunica dartos of the scrotum; 3, traced backwards, we find that, at the base of the urethral triangle, it is reflected beneath the tran^versus perinei muscle, and joins the " deep perineal fascia " or " triangular ligament." This connection explain why, then uxine is effSsed info the perineum, it does not make its way into the ischio-rectal fossa. Remove the tacia in order to see the nimcles which over he bulb of the urethra and the crura of the penis The bulb of the urethra lies in the middle of the perinemn, and is covered by a strtrmuscle. called the accelerator urin«. The crura penis are Sed, one'to ea.h side of the pubic arch, and - -0-^ -=^ ■ by a muscle, called the erector penis. A namj slip o muscle cdled the transversus perinei, extends on either side from tte tube ischii to the central tendmous point of the permcum. This pomtMALE PERINEUM. 341 z 3 is about equidistant from the anus and the bulb of the urethra, and serves for the fixation of muscular fibres from all quarters of the perineum. Thus you observe that the muscles of the perineum describe on each side a triangle, of which the sides are formed by the accele- rator urin^ and the crus penis respectively, and the base by the transversus perinei. Across this triangle run up from base to apex the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. Let us examine these before the muscles. Superficial The superficial perineal artery proceeds from the perineal internal pudic as it runs up the inner side of the tuber vessels and i"or>V,i"," t-l^ , , , nerves. ^l^ough we cannot see the main trunk, we can easily feel it by pressing the finger against the bone. I he artery comes into view a little above the level of the anus, and then passes up the perineal triangle, distributing branches to all the muscles, and is finally lost on the scrotum. The only named branch is a muscular one, called the transversalis perinei (p 342) This IS given off near the base of the triangle, and runs with the transversus perinei muscle towards the central point of the peri- neum It IS necessarily divided in the first incision in lithotomy and deserves attention, because it is sometimes of considerable S1Z6« d^l^^.^'^'^''^'°'^P'''^'^ veins, which are frequently dila ed and tortuous, especially in diseased conditions of the scrotum. of thelT" r'""''^ '^'"^ ^"'^^'^"^ P^^di^' course of theix corresponding arteries, and give off similar branches. They not only supply the skin of the perineum and scrotum, but each of the perineal muscles. °^ Accelerator • ^rlT'^^ embraces the bulb of the urethra. To urince. Simplify the understanding of it, let us consider it as ansmg from a fibrous median raphe beneath ihl 11 and from the tendinous centre of the perineum t r . ' this origin, the fibres diverge and are CZl fit' upper ones proceed on either side round th^ nT —The pe.. U.e ...e.e3 „, ..e lot J^rl.teTC342 MALE PERINEUM. surface: the middle fibres completely embrace the bulb, like a ring, and meet in a tendon on the upper surface of the urethra; while tlie lower fibres are fixed to the deep perineal fascia (fig. 71). Thus, Kg. 70. Triangular liga- ment Tendinous centre of tlie perineum . r Long puJcndal n. Transversalis peri, nei a. Superficialis peri- f nei a. - External liaenior- rhoidal n. JTUSCLE., ^ITH SUPBBFICIAl VESSELS ANB NEBYES, OF THE PEHINEUH. then, the entire muscle acts as a powerful compressor, of the bulb, and expels the last drops of urine from this part of the_ ure hra. By dividing the muscle along the middle line and turning back each half, we can clearly make out its insertion as above described.343 MALE PERINEUM. These muscles are moulded, one upon each crus of the penrs!*""^^ penis. Each 'muscle arises from the inner surface of the tuber ischii: the fibres ascend, completely covering the crus, and terminate on a strong aponeurosis, which is gradually- lost on the corpus cavernosum penis. The action of these muscles is to compress the root of the penis, and so to contribute in some way to the erection of the organ. Fig. 71. Corpus cavernosum Corpus spongiosum Upper fibres . . . Middle fibres . . cowper's cL^'^° "ANCULA ■■'CAMENT DIAGEAM TO SHOW THE ACCELEBATOE UEINiE IN PEOFILE. Lower fibres Tendinous centre of perineum . . . \ ^^^^["'ANCULAR . These muscles are always of insignificant size, and perinei. sometimes absent. They arise one on each side from the tuber ischii, and proceed towards the central point of the perineum, where they are blended with the fibres of the accelerator uriuEe. We cut through this muscle with its artery in lithotomy. The next stage of the dissection consists in reflecting and re- moving the accelerator urin^ from the bulb of the lu-ethra and the erector penis with the crus penis from the rami of the pubes and ischium. Eemove also the transversus permei. In short remove everything which obstructs the view of the trianaular ligament. ^ 55 4MALE PERINEUM. 344 Understand that the "triangular ligament of the Lio^i^oF urethra" and the "deep periheal fascia" are synony- THE uEETHRA. ^^^g teruis. The anatomy of this part has given rise to much useless and perplexing discussion, for want of a correct Fig. 72. Cms penis . . . . Crus penis with its ar- tery cut througli Ramus of the pubes Artery of the bulb . Cowper's gland . . Pudic artery ... . Tuber ischii . • • DIAGEAM TO SHOW THE TEIANGTJLAR MGAMENT OF THE TJEETHKA. definition of how much fascia is included in this ligament. Some anatomists make two layers of it, anterior and posterior, and say that the membranous part of the urethra is situated between them:MALE PERINEUM. 345 others consider the anterior layer only as the triangular ligament, and the posterior layer as part of the pelvic fascia, which I think is the proper view to take of it. The triangular ligament, as shown in fig. 72, is a strong and resisting membrane stretched across the pubic arch. What are its connections ? On each side it is firmly attached to the 'posterior lip of the rami of the pubes and ischium; superiorly, i. e. towards the symphysis of the pubes, it is connected with the sub-pubic ligament; inferiorly, it does, not present a free border, but is re- flected forwards under the transversus perinei and becomes identi- fied with the superficial perineal fascia (p. 340). The membranous part of the urethra runs through the triangular ligament about one inch below the symphysis pubis. The aper- ture for it does not present a distract edge like a round hole, be- cause the ligament is prolonged forwards over the bulb and serves to keep it in position. Points of sur- The triangular ligament is very important in a sur- gical interest, gjcal point of view for these among other reasons : — 1. Here the young hand meets with difficulty in introducing a catheter, unless he can hit off the right track through the ligament. The soft and spongy tissue of the bulbous part of the urethra in front of the ligament readily gives way, if violence be used, and a false passage is the result. 2. By elongating the penis, you are much more likely to hit ofif the proper opening through the ligament. 3. When, in retention of urine, the urethra gives way anterior to this ligament, it is this which prevents the lu-ine from travelling into the pelvis. Its connection with the superficial perineal fascia prevents the urine from getting into the ischio-rectal fossa. Neither can the urine make its way into the thighs. The only outlet for it IS mto the cellular tissue of the scrotum and penis. 4. When suppuration takes place behind the ligament, the matter is pent up and should be speedily let out; if not, it will find its way mto the cellular tissue of the pelvis and may burst into the urethra or the rectum. 5. We have to cut through the ligament in lithotomy.346 MALE PERINEUM. You must now carefully cut away the triangular liga- Shi^nd the ment to see what lies behind it. I say cut away, because triaugiiliir you cannot remove it as a clean layer, owing to its close ligament? g^^ji^gg-^,^ ^^^.^^ behind it. Now these parts are Fig. 73. Compressor urethrse . . Membranous part of the urethra surrounded by Its compressor muscle. Prostate gland . . . . Anterior fibres of the le- vator ani BIAGBAM OF THE PABTS BEHHro THE TEIANGULAR LIGAMENT OF THE TJRETHRA. (The anterior fibres of the levator ani are hooked down to show paxt of the prostate; the rest is tracked by a dotted line.) shown in fig. 73, namely: 1, the membranous part of the urethra, surrounded by, 2, the compressor urethrjB muscle; 3, CowpersMALE PERINEUM. 347 glands; 4, the pudic artery and its three terminal branches, i. e. the ai-tery of the bulb, the artery of the crus, and the dorsal artery of the penis. Fig. 74. Catlicter , Dorsal nerve of the penis . Dorsal artery of the penis . Dorsal vein of the penis . Triangular ligament . . K amus of pubes cut through Part of the pelvic fascia, sometimes called poste- rior layer of triangular ligament. niAGKAM OF THE BELATIONS OP THE COMPRESSOR TOETHRiE SEEN FROM AEOYE. Compressor ""'"'^^^ STirrounds and supports the urethra in its urethKB. passage beneath the pubic arch. It arises from the ramus of the pubes on either side; from thence its fibres pass, some above, some below the urethra, along the whole lengthMALE PERINEUM. 348 of its membranous part. To obtain the best perineal view of the muscle, cut through the spongy part of the urethra about three inches above the end of the bulb, and dissect it from the corpus cavernosum penis. Thus, the upper fibres of the constrictor will be exposed; to see the lower, it is only necessary to raise the bulb. The most perfect view, however, of the muscle is obtained by making a transverse section through the rami of the pubes, so as to get at the muscle from above, as shown in fig. 74. We find that it forms a complete muscular covering for the urethra between the prostate and the bulb. It is chiefly through its agency that we are enabled to retain the urine. It is also this muscle which causes spasmodic stricture of the urethra. These glands are imbedded, one on either side, imme- glands. diately behind the bulb, in the substance of the com- pressor urethrae.* Each consists of a cluster of little glands. Their collective size is about that of a pea, but it varies in diffe- rent individuals. From each a slender duct runs forwards, and, after a course of about one inch, opens into the under surface of the spongy part of the urethra (p. 351). Their use is to furnish a secretion accessory to the function of generation. Pudic axtery "^^^ pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac, and its It leaves the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, branches. crosses the spine of the ischium, re-enters the pelvis through the lesser ischiatic notch, and then runs along the inner side of the tuber ischii up towards the pubic arch. About an inch and a half above the tuber ischii, we can feel the trunk of the pudic artery; but we cannot see it, nor draw it out, for it is securely lodged in a fibrous canal. As we trace it upwards, we find that it nms behind the triangular ligament and divides into three prin- cipal branches; the artery of the bulb, the artery of the crus, and the dorsal artery of the penis (fig. 73). Its external hsemor- * The compressor uretlirse w&s first accurately described and delineated by Santorini (septemdec. tabulae), and afterwards by Miiller in his monograph (Ueber die organ. Nerv. der mannlich. Geschlechtsorgane), and by Guthrie in his work on the anatomy and diseases of the neck of the bladder. These authors agree in essentials respecting the muscle, though they differ in minor points.349 MALE PERINEUM. rhoidal and superficial perineal branches have been already de- scribed (p. 341). Thearteiy of the bulb is of considerable size : it runs through the substance of the compressor urethrte, and before it enters the bulb divides into two or three branches. It also sends a little branch to Cowper's glands. From the direction of this artery it will at once strike the attention that there is great risk of dividing it in litho- tomy. If the artery run along its usual level, and the incision be not made too high in the perineum, then indeed it is out of the way of harm. But, supposing the reverse, the artery cannot escape; and its size is such that it might occasion fatal haemorrhage. If it be asked, how often does the artery run along a dangerous level ? I answer, about once in twenty subjects; and there is no possi- bility of ascertaining this anomaly beforehand. The artevT/ of the cms penis is given off after that of the bulb. It ascends for a short distance under cover of the ai-ch, but soon enters the crus. To see the dorsal artery of the penis, we must dissect the penis from its attachment to the symphysis pubis. The artery should be traced down to the glans. We find that it forms a complete artenal cu-cle round the corona glandis, giving off numerous rami- fications to the papillae on the surface. Pudic nerve. I^especting the pudic nerve little need be said, except that It corresponds both in its course and branches with the artery. It gives off its external hgemorrhoidal, and its super- ficial perineal branches,-a small one to the bulb, and another to the crus penis; but the main trunk of the nerve runs with the artery along the dorsum of the penis to the glans, and we cannot fail to be struck with its large size (p. 347). In its passage it supplies the integuments of the penis, and sends one or two branches into the corpus cavernosum. This part of the penis also receives nerves Irom the sympathetic system. iscHio- This is the deep hollow on each side between the ann^ '^"^ When all the fat is removed from J 'observe that it is lined on all sides by fascia In troduce the finger into it to form a correct-idea of L extent and350 SIDE VIEW or the pelvic viscera. boundaries. Externally, it is bounded by the tuber ischii and obturator internus muscle; internally, by the rectum and levator ani; posteriorly, by the gluteus maximus; anteriorly, by the transversus perinei. The fossa is crossed by the external hsemor- rhoidal vessels and nerves. These deep recesses on each side of the rectum explain the great size which abscesses in this situation may attain. The matter can be felt only through the rectum. Nothing can be seen outside. Perhaps nothing more than a little hardness can be felt by the side of the anus. These abscesses should be opened early; else they form a large cavity and possibly may burst into the rectum. ANATOMY 'OF THE SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. To make a side view of the pelvic viscera, the left innominate bone should be removed in the following manner: — Detach the peritoneum and the levator ani from the left side of the pelvis; saw through the pubes about two inches from the symphysis, and cut through the sacro-iliac symphysis; then, by drawing the legs apart, and cutting through the pyriformis, sacro-ischiatic ligaments, and ischiatic nerves, the innominate bone comes away easily. This done, the rectum should be distended with horse-hair, and the bladder blown up through the ureter. A staff should be passed through the urethra into the bladder. You have already seen how the peritoneum passes from the front of the rectum to the lower, part of the bladder (forming the recto- vesical pouch), and thence over the back of the bladder to the wall of the abdomen. You see where the distended bladder is bare of peritoneum, and that it can be tapped either through the rectum or above the pubes without injury to the serous membrane, as shown by the arrows , in fig. 75. ■p.. y The peritoneal connections of the bladder are called mil ofthe its false ligaments ; false in contradistinction to the true, which are formed by the fascia of the pelvis, and really do fasten the neck of the bladder in its proper position.SIDE VIEW OE THE PELVIC VISCERA. 351 The false ligaments are — 1, the posterio7^ — two peritoneal folds produced, one on either side the recto-vesical pouch, by the fibrous remains of the umbilical arteries; 2, the anterior, produced by the passage of the peritoneum from the bladder to the abdominal wall; and, lastly, the lateral, produced by its reflexion from the side of the bladder to the side of the pelvis. Pelvic P^^'''^ ^^'^^^ Constitutes the true ligaments of the FASCIA. P«ivic viscera, supporting and maintaining them in their proper position. To expose it, you need only remove he pen oneu^ on that side of the pelvis which has notTe, disturbed In doing so, notice the abundance of loose cellular tissue which IS interposed between the peritoneum and the fl^l352 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. evidently for the purpose of callowing the bladder to distend with facility. Whenever urine gains access to this cellular tissue, it is sure to produce the most disastrous consequences; therefore, in all operations on the perineum, it is of the utmost importance not to injure the fascia in question. Examine, first, to what parts of the pelvis the fascia is attached; secondly, the manner in which it is reflected on the viscera. Beginning, then, in front, we find that the fascia is attached to the body of the pubes; thence we trace its attachment along the side of the pelvis, just above the obturator foramen, to the greater ischiatic notch; here it becomes gradually thinner, covers the pyriformis muscle, and is lost on the sacrum. Now let us follow it on to the viscera. From the'pubes the fascia is reflected over the prostate and the neck of the bladder, so as to form on either side of the sym- physis a well-marked band, called the anterior true ligament of the bladder. From the side of the pelvis it descends as low as the line of origin of the levator ani, and here divides into two layers, inner and outer ; the inner is reflected on to the side of the bladder, forming what is called its lateral true ligament; the outer Imes the external surface of the levator ani. So far there can be no difBculty. But the most important pai-t of the fascia still remains to be examined. The fact is, that it forms a complete capsule for the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. Now how is this capsule constructed ? In front, the fascia takes its point of departure from the sides of the pubic a.-ch : from thence it passes backwards, and is gradually lost round the prostate and the neck of the bladder (p. 347). Taking it as a whole, it forms a case, which encloses not only the prostate and neck of the bladder, but also the prostatic plexus of veins, and the beginning of the membranous part of the urethra. Towards the permeum he case is closed by the triangular ligament. In the operation of Mhotorny the greatest care should be taken not to injure the capsule alluded to, for reasons already assigned. If we were to describe this capsule piecemeal, we should say that it consists of so many ligaments: its upper pai-t would beSIDE VIEAV OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 353 formed by the anterior ligaments of the bladder, its sides by the lateral ligaments * of the prostate, and its lower part by a hori- zontal layer of fascia interposed between the prostate and the rectum.f The use of this capsule is to fasten down the neck of the bladder and the prostate, and to maintain them in their proper position with regard to the pubic arch. But for this, the prostate would rise with the distending bladder, elongate the urethra, and thereby materially obstruct the free passage of the urine.f Genijeai '^^^ P^^^^*^ ^^^^^^^ so surrounded by veins and POSITION OP loose cellular tissue, that he who dissects them for the ™a m ^i^l ^eet with considerable difficulty in dis- THE luiE. covering their definite boundaries. The rectum runs at the back of the pelvis. The bladder lies in front of the rectum, immediately behind the symphysis pubis. At the neck of the bladder is the prostate gland through which the urethra passes. In the celluW tissue, between the bladder and the rectum, there is, on each side, a convoluted tube called the "vesicula seminalis"; and on the inner side of each vesicula is the seminal duct or vas deferens. Before we describe these several parts in detail, it is necessary to say a few words about the lar^e tortuous veins by which they are surrounded. Plexus of veins Beneath the pelvic fascia about the prostate about prostate and and the nppk nf i-hc 'k^r,AA^,. neck of bladder. , bladder, are a number of large and tortuous veins, which form, by their * These ligaments extend from the ramus of the ischium to the side of the prostate and are sometimes called " ischio-prostatic." prostate, tolf'""""t?'' P^ts these several portions of the fascia together, and describes them as a ^hole. He says : "La prostate et la portion m m! braneuse de 1 uxfetre sont plac^es an centre, comprises entre des plans fibreux sZZZ infeneurs et lateraux, envelopp^es des toutes pa.-ts, et engahi^es 4 la maiSrl 7' muscles On conceit done comment la portion membraneuse'de iS^tre eTo ve eon' tenue dans une sorte de caisse irr^guHferement quadrUatfire " pZ Z et de Fhys. Paris, 1837. quaclrUatfire. —Pro^positiom WAnat. % In cases of extreme distension of the bladder the urptbm rln=c • stances become elongated to a very considerable l^t^^Ztlt t.Zl^ ""T' required to reach the bladder. Consult M. Deschamps Trit^d vn ? Taille, torn, i. p. 221. -^cscnamps, Iraat6 de 1 Opdratiou de la354 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCEEA. ™tual oommumcations, the prctatio a.d the P^^--; Thev empty themselves into the internal ilia«. In early Me they a^elot ml developed, hut as puberty approaches they gradually Fig. 76. SIDB TIBW OF THE PEIVIC VISCEBA. (Taken from a Photograph.) 1. External spiineter. 2. Internal sphincter. 3. Levator ani cut througti. 4 Accelerator urinse. 5 Membranous part of the urethra, svir- rounded by compressor muscle. 6. Prostate gland. 7. Vesicula seminalis. 8. Ureter. 9. Vas deferens. 10. Crus penis divided. 11. Triangular ligament. 12. Superficial perineal fascia. 13. Eectum. ^+ f<„^iliar mth the anatomy of increase in size; and any one not f^-^^^ J .ometin.es these parts would hardly cred.t the ^^^^^ inferior attain in old persons. They communicate fieelySIDE VIEW or THE PELVIC VISCERA. 355 hemorrhoidcal plexus, or veins about the anus, and they receive the blood returning from the penis through the large veins which pass under the pubic arch. This is one of the reasons why the prostatic plexus is so capacious. If, in lithotomy, the incision be carried beyond the limits of the prostate, the great veins around it must necessarily be divided : these, independently of any artery, are quite sufficient to occasion very serious hemorrhage. Eectiim ^'^^ers the pelvis on the left of the sacrum, mtestinum and describes a curve corresponding to the axis of the rdatbns. P^-^^^' '^^^^ ^^^ore its termination, the bowel curves downwards so that the anal aperture is dependent. The rectum is not throughout of equal calibre. Its capacity becomes greater as it descends into the pelvis ; and, immediately above the sphmeter, it presents a considerable dilatation (fig. 75 p 351) This dilatation is not material in early life, but it increases as ac^e advances. An adequate idea of it cannot be formed unless the bowel be fully distended. Under such circumstances the rectum loses altogether its cylindrical form, and bulges up on either side ot the prostate and the base of the bladder. For this reason it is ormhotomy * '^'^'''^ ^^^""^^ ^"^^^'^^ ^^^^""^ operation The upper part of the rectum is connected to the sacrum by a lold ot peritoneum termed " meso-rechim:' In this fold the terminal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery with its vein runs up to supply the bowel. Below the meso-rectum, the gut is con- nected to the sacrum and coccyx by an abundance of loose cellular tissue, which allows its easy disteusion. This explains why fistu- lous passages are so apt to burrow in this direction _ The relations of the front part of the rectum,_that, namelv r :rt:nt f ^^^^^ the^anus-'ai.; m It impoitant To put this matter in the most practical light, we will uppose the forefinger to be introduced into the anus and a catheter m the urethra. The first thing felt through tL f ! wall of the bowel is the membranous part%?ll'tXT4 ^ It has just withm the sphincter, and is about ten lines in frtt of356 SIDH VIEW OF THE TELVIC VISCERA. the cTtit. About one and a half or two inches from the anus the finger comes upon the prostate gland; this is in close contact with the gut, and is readily felt on account of its hardness; by moving the finger from side to side we recognise its lateral lobes. StiU higher up, the finger goes beyond the prostate, and reaches the «tri<-one " of the bladder : the facility with which this can be examined depends not only upon the length of the finger and the amount of fat in the perineum, but upon the degree of distension of the bladder ; for the more distended the bladder, the better can the prostate be felt. These several relations are practically im- portant. They explain why, with the finger in the rectum, we can ascertain whether the catheter is taking the right direction,— whether the prostate be enlarged or not. We might even raise a stone from the bottom of the bladder so as to bring it m contact with the forceps. The rectum is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. The superior come from the inferior mesenteric (p. 319); the middle and mferior fi-om the pudic artery. The corresponding veins jom the inferior mesenteric, and consequently the portal system They are very large and form a very tortuous plexus about the lower part of the rectum As they have no valves, they are liable to become dilated and congested from various internal causes; hence the frequency of hemorrhoidal affections. , . ,n • ,.4. This viscus, being a receptacle for the urme, must Bladder. ^g^ggg^rily vary in size, and accordingly the nature of its connections and coats are such as to permit this variation _ When contracted the bladder sinks into the pelvis behmd the pubic ai- h, and is completely protected from injury. But, as it gradually dltends it rises out of the pelvis into the abdomen, and, m cases 'rextreme distention, may reach nearly up to the umbilicus.* Its . W.en.eHadder.e^p;.« there seems to bo no limit to its distension. Vesica.) Frank bladder distended nearly as liigh as the ensiform eaxtilage.SIDE VIEW OP THE PELVIC VISCERA. 357 outline can then be easily felt through the walls of the abdomen. The form* of the distended bladder is oval, and its long axis, if produced, would pass superiorly through the umbilicus, and inferiorly through the end of the coccyx. The axis of a child's bladder is more vertical than in the adult; for in children, the bladder is not a pelvic viscus. It is this which makes lithotomy so much more difficult in their case. An inexperienced operator IS apt to forget the axis of the young bladder, and to get out of the groove of the staff, between the bladder and rectum; in short, not to cut into the bladder at all. _ The quantity of urine which the bladder will hold without much inconvenience varies. As a general rule it may be stated at about a pint. A good deal depends upon the habits of the individual • but some persons have, naturally, a very small bladder, and are obliged to empty it more frequently. In young persons the lowest part of the bladder is the neck, or bot of f S i.^^""' advances, the bo om of the bladder gradually deepens so as to form a sort of larly f the prostate be enlarged, this pouch is apt to become of rp;tsthat :f' "^^^"^^^ — elt, the reason of which maybe that the stone has lodged in such a pouch below the level of the neck of the bladder, and therefoit escapes the detection of the sound. Under these cLumstances t IS necessa^to place the patient on an inclined plane S he pelvis higher than the shoulders: then the stone falls oJof the pouch, and IS easily recognisable. Ureter. ' ^his is a tube, about eighteen inches long, which con dissection Tth m"' ^^'^ *° ^^^^der. In the dissection of the abdomen we saw it descending along the psoas In the infant, the bladder is of a r,v.i?oZ Z Tf. ^""^ " nrachus. r.ped; but as we assume more andCeThe J^^'V P^™^^'''^"^. quad- urine gradually makes the lower pi Ire eapaXus^"^" "^'S^* If] P 7 ^' A A 3358 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCEllA. muscle, and crossing the division of the common ilkc artery Trace it down to the bottom of the bladder and you will find that it enters it about one inch and a half behind tbe prostate, and abou two inches from its fellow of the opposite side (fig. 76). 1 he tube perforates the bladder very obliquely, so that the aperture, being valvular, allows the urine to flow into, but not out of the organ. The narrowest part of the ureter is at the vesical onAce; here therefore, a calculus is more likely to be detamed than at any other part of the canal. Fig. 77. 1. Ureter. 2. Vas deferens. 3. Vesicula eeminalis. 4. Trigone. 5. Prostate. POSTEBIOE VIEW OF THE BIADDEK. This is the tube which conveys the seminal fluid Vas deferens. ^ ^ ^^^^-^^^ i^to the prostatic part of the m-etiira It ascends L the back part of the spernia^c ^^^^ inguinal canal into the abdomen; downwards over the sid. of ^^^^^^^^^ ,,,, ,e- deferens has very much the feel of whip-cord. . The description in the text presun.es the bladder to ho ^^^f^^^ the bladder is empty the vas deferens runs down upon the side of peh359 SIDE VIEW OF THE PEJ.VIC VISCERA. Vesicul These are situated, one on either side, between the senSes. ladder and the rectum (fig. 68, p. 336). Strictly speaking each is a tube, but so convoluted that it looks inore like a little sacculated bladder. When rolled up, the tube is not more than two and a half inches long, but when unravelled it is more than twice that length, and about the size of a small writing quill. Several blind tubes, or csecal prolongations, proceed from the main one, after the manner of a stag's horn. The vesiculte seminales do not run parallel, but they diverge from each other posteriorly like the branches of the letter V, and each lies immediately on the outer side of the vas deferens into which it leads. The function of the vesicul^ seminales is to serve as reservoirs for the semen. If one of them be opened a brownish-coloured fluid escapes trom It. This is presumed to be in some way accessory to the lunction of generation.* Prostate P^ostate gland is situated at the neck of the gland. bladder, and surrounds the first part of the urethra (p. 336). In the healthy adult it is about the size and shape of a chestnut. Its apex is directed forwards. It is sur- rounded by a plexus of veins (p. 353), and is maintained in its position by the pelvic fascia (p. 351). Its upper surface is about three-quarters of an inch below the symphysis pubis. The apex of the prostate is about one and a half inches from the anus : the base IS about two and a half. So much for the situation of the prostate. Now for its rela^ t^ns Above It we have the anterior ligaments of the bladder with the dorsal vem of the penis between them; below, and contact with it, is the rectum; on each side of it is the levator , m front of It we have the membranous part of the urethra (sur- rounded by its compressor muscle), and the triangular ligament • behind are the neck of the bladder and the vesfcula. setral s' with the ejaculatory ducts. . ^tju^maies course it may be seen, througli the peritoneum, crossimr-1 tlm „vf i -r 2, the rem^s of the umbilical arte^; 3, the oU^Z'J:^!!^:^:^'^ ""f^ * The yesiculse seminales are but imperfectly deyelonerl Z T J ' ^^'^'^^^r. . Of,^ Iz^^^*'*'- m ani; sur-360 SIDE VIEW OE THE PELVIC VISCEEA. The wide, that is the transverse diameter, is ahout one inch and a half- the vertical is about half an inch less. But the gland varies in size at different periods of life. In the child it is not developed, or at all events is very small: it gradually grows to- wards puberty, and increases in size with advancing age. • When you wish to ascertain the size and condition of the prostate during life, the bladder should be at least half full: because the prostate is then pressed down towards the rectum, and more withm reach of the finger. t>,p The urethra, in its passage under the arch ot tne STetXf pubes, is surrounded by muscular fibres ; this, therefore in its pas- may very properly be called the "muscular" part oi ?hf the urethra, though it commonly goes by the name of the' «membranous." It comprises that part ot the canal intermediate between the prostate and the bulb. It is about one inch in length, but somewhat longer on the upper than the lower surface, in consequence of the encroachment oi the bulb. It is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and nearly the same distance from the rectum; observe, however, that it is not equidistant from the rectum at all points, because of the downward bend which the gut makes towards the anus. This muscle supports the anus and lower part oi the Levator ani. ^^^^^^ ^.^^ ^ ^-^^^^ To see it, the pelvic fascia mnst be reflected from its inner surface. It arises from tte ramus of the pubes near the symphysis, from the spine of tl^e -jn^ and from a tendinous Une extending in a gentle curve ^etwe.«^*^^«; points of bone; this line being nothing more than the division of the pelvic fascil From this long origin the fibres descend, and Ir Lrted thus-the anterior passing under the Wosts^^^e^ then- fellow in the middle line of the permeum m front_ of the anu": the next are lost in the sphincter, while the posterior ter- minate on the side of the rectum (p. 354). The function of the levatores ani is to retract the anus and the * If a clean wtieal section were made we should see that the t.o --^f-- . sides of a triangular space, of which the apex is towai-ds the prostate. ThiB is some times called the recto-urethral triangle.SIDE VIEAV OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 361 Coceygeus. rectum after it has been protruded in defaBcation by the combined action of the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm. This muscle should be regarded as a continuation of the levator ani. It arises from the spine of the ischium, gradually spreads out, and is inserted into the side of the coccyx, which it serves to support. iNTBBNAi ^ From the division of the common iliac, the internal ILIAC AE- iliac descends into the pelvis, and, after a course of B^c^. a half, divides opposite the great sacro-ischiatic notch into two large branches (fig. 78). Of these, the posterior gives off the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, cand gluteal arteries; while the anterior gives off the obturator. Fig. 78. SAC,MED SAC LAT? PLAN OF THE BBANCHBS OF THE INTEBNAL ILIAC. vesical, ischiatic, and pudic: also the uterine and vaginal in the female. Such is their usual order: but these branches, though constant as to their general distribution, vary as to their origin a. The ^l^o~lumbar is analogous to the lumbar branches^'of'the aorta. It ascends outwards beneath the psoas, sends branches to this muscle and he quadratus lumborum, and then, running near the crest of the ihum, supplies the iliacus muscle, and finafly ia- osculates with the circumflexa iUi (p. 330). ^362 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. b The lateral sacral descends perpendicularly in front of the sacral foramina, and near the coccyx inosculates with the middle sacral artery. It gives branches to the pyriformis, the hladder, and rectum, and others which enter the sacral foramma for the supply of the cauda equina. c The gMmal is the largest branch. It passes immediately out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch above the pyriformis muscle, and then divides into branches for the supply of the great muscles of the buttock. These we dissect with the thigh. d The obturator artery runs along the side of the pelvis, below the corresponding nerve, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, through which it passes to be distributed to the muscles of the thigh. , In the pelvis it gives off a small branch to the iha- cus muscle,'and another which ramifies on the back of the pubes. But the obturator artery does not, in all subjects, take the course above stated. It may arise from the external iliac near the crural arch or by a short trunk in common with the epigastric Under tht circumstances, in order to reach the obturator foramen, xt generally descends on the outer side of the femora ring. Instances lowever! every now and then occur, where it makes a sweep round the L r side of the ring; so that three-fourths of the nng, or, whaHomes to the same thing, of the mouth of a femoral hernia, would in such a case be surrounded by a large artery.f T The isckiatic artery is smaller than the gluteal. It proceeds ovei the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, to the lower border of Z greatTchiatic notch, through which it passes out of the pelvis to the buttock, where it runs with the great ischiatic nerve. common mth the epigastric IS external iliac it "?TrMS:itr S-SoWs Hospital eonta.s^^^^P- of^^- femoral hernia in the male, with the obturator ™S ^ J ^^et^^^^^^^^^ of In three out of the fom- ruptures the obtm-ator runs on the innei side the sac. (See Preparations 66, 69, Series 17.)SIDE VIEW or THE PELVIC VISCERA. 363 /. The pudic artery supplies the perineum and the penis. It passes out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, below the pyriformis, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser notch. It then ascends on the inner side of the obturator internus muscle towards the pubic arch, where it gives branches to the several parts of the penis. In its passage over the obturator muscle it is enclosed in a strong tube of - fascia, 7^ and is situated about one inch and a quarter above the tuberosity of the ischium. Here it might for a time be effectually com- pressed. The branches of the pudic artery were described in the dissection of the perineum (p, 349). Unfortunately for operative surgery, the pudic artery sometimes takes a very different course. Instead of passing out of the pelvis, it may run by the side of the prostate gland to its destination; or, which comes to nearly the same thing, one of the lai-ge branches of the pudic may take this unusual course, while the pudic itself is regular, but proportionably small. All practical anatomists are familiar with these varieties, and we seldom pass a winter session without meeting with one or two examples of them. It need hardly be said that lithotomy, under such conditions, might be followed be fatal hemorrhasre. g. The vesical* and middle hemorrhoidal arteries are variable as to their number and origin. They come from the pudic or the ischiatic, and ramify on the side of the rectum, the bladder, the vesiculse seminales, and the prostate. h. The middle sacral artery is a very diminutive prolongation of the aorta down to the coccyx. It becomes gradually smaller as it descends, and finally inosculates with the lateral sacral artery. In animals this is the artery of the tail. Eespecting the veins in the pelvis they correspond with the arteries. The remarkable plexus of veins about the prostate, neck of the bladder, and rectum, has been described (p. 353). * mile on the subject of arteries supplying the bladder, it should bo mentioned that the ivpper part of this organ is generaUy supplied by what is caUed the superior vesica . This is a smaU artery proceeding from the obHterated umbiHcal; and from it a still smaUer is given off, which accompanies the vas deferens.SIDE VIEAV OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 364 Neuvbs of "VVe should examine, first, those which proceed from TUB PELVIS. ^p.^^^ ^^^^ ^ afterwards those derived from the sympathetic system. Five* sacral nerves proceed from the spinal cord ^exus through the sacral foramina. The upper four, from pexus. ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^.^^^ ^^^^ attract observation; but the fifth, which perforates the coccygeus muscle, is small, and not Fig. 79. 12. N. of pyriformis. 13. N. of gemellus superior. 14. N. of gemellus inferior. 15. N. of quadratus femorls. IG. N. of gluteus maximuB. 17. Long pudendal n. 18. Cutaneous n. of the but- tock. 19. N. of the long head of the biceps. 20. N. of semi-tendinosus. 21. N. of semi-merabrano. sus. 22. N. of short head of the biceps. I, 2, 3, i, 5. Sacral nn. 6. Superior glutaeal n. 7. Great ischiaticn. 8. Lesser ischiatic n. 9. Pudic n. 10. N. of obturator internus. II. N. of levator ani. SLAN of the SA.CBA1 PLEXUS AND BEANCHES. ..„.ly found. The four upper nerves, together with a branch from the last lumbar {lumbosacral), form the sacral plexus. The great easi * 8om6 anatomists describe a "coccygeal" nem. It supplies the same parts as tlie fifth sacral.SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 365 nerves of the plexus lie on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the branches of the internal iliac artery, and coalesce to form the great ischiatic nerve, the chief branch of which passes out at the back of the pelvis for the supply of the flexor muscles of the inferior extremity. The other branches of the plexus are as follow a. The sujpeHor glutceal nerve proceeds from the lumbo-sacral, leaves the pelvis with the glutsBal artery, and suppHes the glutsens medius and minimus, and the tensor fascite femoris. b. The lesser ischiatic supplies the glutaeus maximus, the skin of the buttock, the perineum, and back of the thigh. c. The jpudic nerve runs with the pudic artery, and, Hke it, supplies the rectum, perineum, and penis. The pudic commonly gives off the branch for the obturator internus, but this is often a distinct branch from the plexus. Under any circumstances the branch m question leaves the pelvis with the artery, and re-enters with it to reach the muscle. d. The branches for the pelvic viscera are very small. They proceed chiefly from the third and fourth sacral nerves, and form an intricate plexus about the bladder, prostate, and rectum. e. Lastly, the sacral plexus supplies the levator ani, the coccy- geus, the cutaneous sphincter of the anus, the pyriformis, gemelli and quadratus femoris. Sympathetic "^'"'''^ ''^^^^^ ^^'^^^^ Sympathetic nerve. nerve into the pelvis, along the inner side of the sacral foramina. In this part of its course its ganglia vary in number from three to five. The nerves of opposite sides unite in front of the coccyx : here we find the "ganglion impar." The plan upon which the sympathetic nerves are distributed in the pelvis is similar to that in the abdomen. Each ganglion receives one or two filaments from a spinal nerve, and then gives off Its branches to the viscera. The visceral branches are ex- ceedingly delicate, and cannot be traced unless the parts have been previously hardened in spirit. They accompany the arteries sup- plying the respective organs, and are called the vesical, prostatic and inferior hemorrhoidal plexuses. ' According to the accurate dissections of Miiller, the vesical366 STRUCTURE OP THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. filaments of the sympathetic do not stop at the prostate, but pass on beneath the pubic arch into the corpus cavernosum penis. Thus the erectile tissue of the intromittent organ is brought di- rectly within the influence of the sympathetic system. STRUCTURE OP THE BLADDER, PROSTATE, URETHRA, AND PENIS. . The parts are presumed to have been collectively taken out from the pelvis, and the partial peritoneal covering of the bladder to have been removed. The bladder is composed of a partial peritoneal coat, a omt" muscular and a mucous ; these are connected by an inter- Uadder. ^^gdiate layer of cellular tissue, out of which some anato- mists make a third coat, and call it the cellular. The muscular is the outside coat. It consists of bundles ot muscular fibres crossing each other in various directions Then colour and development depend upon whether the individual ha. suffered from irritation of the bladder, or any obstruction to the flow of the ui-ine. The general direction of the fibres is as follows: -An outer layer arises from the circumference of the prostate, and from thence its fibres spread out longitudinally over the bladder. Under this is a layer of circular fibres, more especially near the neck. Towards the sides of the bladder the two sets f fibres have a less definite arrangement, and form a kind of net- work: these, therefore, are the weakest parts of the bladder, and more liable to the formation of pouches.* r . The bladder should be laid open by an incision along its front * These pouches arise in the foUo^Bg ™er_:-A PO^Jion of « memh^ane is prLde'd through one of the —. in—o ^^ ^^l^^^^^^^ is small at first, but graduaUy increases m size, ^et ^th tas no power of emptying itself; generaUy spe^g, ^'^^f'^'^^^ in the same bladder, and they often con axn ^^/^^J^f , Lde^ loose in the bladder, happen to become lodged xn a pou h by ^^^^^ ^ remission of the symptoms may ensue. Occurrences of this fand readUy p Ijoasted and apparent efficacy of medicines for dissolYing a stone.367 STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE, Fis. 80. Prostate gland Membranous part of the urethra . Ureter. Orifice of ureter. Uvula. Caput gallinagiiiis. Orifies of seminal duct. Cowper's gland. Bulb of urethra. Crus penis. Orifice of the duct of Cowper's gland. One of the lacuna". Corpus cavernosum. ULADnEK AND URETHRA TAIB OPEN BY AN INCISION Glans penis. ALONG ITS UPPER SUBPACB.368 STRUCTURE OIT THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. surface, to examine its interior. In a recently contracted bladder, the mucous membrane is disposed in irregular folds; these, how- ever, disappear when the bladder is distended. Under ordinary circumstances the membrane is perfectly pale, but when inflamed it becomes of a bright red colour. If a piece of the membrane, especially when selected from near the neck of the bladder, be placed under the field of a microscope, its surface is seen to be studded with follicles. These follicles secrete the thick ropy mucus in inflammation of the bladder. The orifice of the urethra is situated at the lower and anterior part of the bladder, not at the most dependent part which forms the well behind the orifice, in which urine is so apt to accumulate in old persons. Though it appears small and contracted m the fresh bladder, yet if the little finger be introduced into it, we shaU find that it will gradually dilate to a very considerable size. Imme- diately behind the orifice we observe in some bladders a slight elevation, called the « uvula." It is nothing more than a portion of the mucous membrane raised up by an accumulation of thejub- inucous tissue, and is rarely of sufficient size to interfere with the passage of the urine. This is quite a difi-erent thing from enlarge- ment of the third or middle lobe of the prostate. ^ , . The oHfices of the ureters are about an inch and a half behmd the urethra, and about two inches apart. See how obUquely these tubes perforate the coats of the bladder, slanting towards each other, and standing out in relief under the ^;^cous membrane Moreover, a little ridge proceeds from the orifice of each ureter down to the neck of the bladder, looking Hke a cent— the ureter itself. If the mucous membrane be removed from ^hese ridges, we find that they are produced by muscular fibres. . THs slanting of the n.ete. se^es all - ofa bladder, drop by drop, bnt cannot ^^^-'X'^'^^^Zu^^^^^ thickened, the other side of the orifice, so as to stop it. When ^""^ ^'"^ ^ ^,ters ^ rli-ffln.ilt-vin uassing the water, it sometimes happens luai luc in consequence of dif&culty m passing , ^^^^^^^ contracts, is partly loose their valynlar du-ection, so that ^^^^ and so does the forced back np the nretors ; the result is, that they become dilated, and pelvis of the kidney.STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. 369 Sir Charles Bell * who first drew attention to them, believed them to be of use in regulating the orifices of the ureters, and named them "the muscles of the ureters." The ridges, converging from the ureters, together with an imaginary horizontal Hue drawn between their orifices, include a triangular area called, by the French anatomists, the " trigone vesi- cale." The mucous membrane of this area is always firmly adherent to the subjacent tissue, and is therefore perfectly smooth. It IS more richly provided with blood-vessels and nerves than the rest of the bladder, and is in consequence endowed with more diHcate sensibiHty. This is the reason why a stone gives more pain when the bladder is empty, and why it is more painful in the erect than m any other position of the body. The bladder is supplied with blood, by " superior," "middle" and "mferior" vesical arteries. The superior comes from the umbihcal: the middle from the internal iliac: the inferior from the pudic. Prostate. having already examined the form, size, and relations of the prostate, p. 359. You have now only to make out Its two lateral symmetrical lobes. There is, also, a third or middle lobe t It unites the lateral lobes, and is situated above the semi- nal ducts. In the healthy state of parts, this does not appear like a separate lobe; but when abnormally enlarged, it projects towards the cavity of the bladder, and acts like a bar at the mouth of the urethra. Make a longitudinal incision through the prostate in order to expose the urethra. Notice that the canal does not run exactly * Med. Chii-. Trans, vol. iii. He says, "These muscles giia^d the orifices of the oTthe ur?"""""/ "^^'^'^ f^^'^^S^' P^^^g tJ^e extremitie of the ureters accord.Bg to the degree of the contraction of the bladder generaUy t Attention was first attracted to this nnddle lobe, in England, by sS Everard ' Home, whose account of it is pubHshed in the Philos. Trans for 1806 t:on prepared by Sir Everard in iUustration is prese" ed irihrMT'm of ^rr'; CoUege of Sixrgeons in London, Physiol. Serie.^ No 2583 A Bu ! effect of the enlargement of this part of the prost^trdwl It., t "'""^ """^ times. It was accixrutcly described by S^tZi^tn mo V ^ '^^^'^^^^^^ °f'modern and iB aUuded to by Morgagni in ^l^aZ::^^^'''^^ B B370 STRUCTURE Ol? THE PROSTATE. in tlie centre of the gland, but rather nearer to its upper surface ; nor is it of the same calibre throughout. It forms a sinus in the interior of the prostate, as though the gland had been purposely hollowed out; and this is what anatomists mean when they speak of the " sinus of the prostate." Along the floor of this sinus is a longitudinal ridge, which is broad and elevated behind, but gra- dually loses itself forwards in a narrow point. This is called the crest of the urethra, and the most prominent part of it is named the « caput gallinaginis;' from its supposed resemblance to the head of a woodcock. The seminal ducts open close to each other, one on either side of this prominence (p. 367). Immediately in front of the caput gallinaginis, precisely m the middle line, is a small opening, into which you should pass a probe to ascertain that it leads backwards into a little cul-de-sac or pouch in the substance of the prostate. This pouch is described as the analocrueof the uterus, and called the " uiWcu^usbut strictly speaktna, it is the remains of the primordial sac out of which the parts were formed. It is of a pyriform shape, with the narrowest part at the orifice, and its length is about five or six lines. _ Prac- tically it deserves attention because in some persons it is large enough to catch the end of a small catheter. Lastly, we have to notice the minute orifices of the proper ducts of the prostate , and ■ these are best seen on the floor of the sinus. Now the whole sub- stance of the gland is permeated by the divisions and subdivisions of these ducts. They are not visible to the naked eye, but if one of them were thoroughly traced out with the microscope, it wou^d be seen to terminate in a blind sacculated extremity, upon which the capillaries ramify in rich profusion.f of life. For ftu-tlier detuU concerning tliem consult the article "Prostate in Cyclopsedia.371 STEUCTUKE OF THE PROSTATE. Modern observations prove that the prostate is more of a muscular than a glandular body. Nearly two-thirds of it is made up of mus- cular fibre of the non-striped variety. The great mass of this mus- cular fibre is arranged in a circular manner round the urethra, so as to form a sphincter. The prostate is remarkable for its dilatability. This has been long known to lithotomists, distinguished for their skill and success. If a small incision be made through the anterior part of the gland, the base being left entire, the gland may be dilated by the finger to such an extent as to admit of the extraction of even large calculi. It will naturally suggest itself, that any change in the dimensions of the prostate gland must affect the canal which runs through it and more or less obstruct the flow of urine. For instance, if the entire gland be uniformly enlarged, the length of the prostatic urethra wUl be increased; if the enlargement preponderate at one part more than another then the canal will deviate more or less from its natural track and assume a more angular or a lateral cm-ve according to the part enlarged. When the middle lobe becomes enlarged, there arises, at the neck of the bladder, a tumor, which wdll, in proportion to its size, more or less obstruct the passage of the urine. In the efforts made to introduce a catheter mto the bladder, it sometimes happens that the end of the instru- ment is pushed through this hypertrophied lobe.* Vesiculjfi Respecting the internal structure of the vesicul^ semi- seminales. nales. We need only observe that their mucous membrane is lined by a scaly epithelium, and that it presents a beautiful honeycomb structure, not unHke that of the gall-bladder; the purpose of this is to increase the extent of the secreting surface.' Cowper's . ^^^^^^ Cowper have already been examined in glands. Situ in the dissection of the perineum, p. 348. We find them close to the urethra, one on either side, immediately behind the bulb. They consist of an aggregation of smaller glands • of which the collective size is somewhat larger than a pea Each pours Its secretion by a single and very minute duct into the * See the Museum of St. Bartholomew's, Prep. 8 and 21, Series xxix. B n 2 hUa^ ^^jBty->/P , . ^ .372 UllETURA. bulbous part of the urethra. The use of these glands appears to be like that of the vesiculae seminales and the prostate, namely, to pour into the urethra a fluid accessory in someway, not yet under- stood, to the function of generation. They are found more or less developed in all mammalia, and in some, e.g. in the mole, they increase in size periodically with the testicle. The urethra is the tube which leads from the bladder TJretlira. p^^-g^ ge^^es not only as the excre- tory duct of the bladder, but transmits the secretion of the testicles and the several glands accessory to generation. It is surrounded by different structures in different parts of its course. The first inch or thereabouts, is surrounded by the prostate gland (p. 379); the second inch, which passes under the pubic arch, is surrounded by the compre'ssor urethra (p. 360); the remamder of its course alona the penis, is surrounded by erectile tissue, termed ' corpus spongiosum." Hence anatomists divide it into the prostatic he muscular or membranous, and the spongy. The length of the whole is about seven or eight inches, but of course, this will vary according to the condition of the penis. The general direction of the urethra, when the penis hangs flaccid is like the letter S reversed; but if the penis be held straig-ht, the canal forms only one curve through the pubic arch with the concavity upwards. The degi'ee of this curvature varies different periods of life. In the child, the bladder being more in the abdo- mTthan in the pelvis, the cm:ve forms part of a much smaller circle than it does in the adult; but it graduaUy widens as age in- creases and our catheters are shaped accordingly.* However he Tarts when in a sound state, will yield sufficient^ to admit the Ltrokuction of a straight instrument into the bladder. Aston K.y always used a straight staff in lithotomy. In its contracted state, the sides of the urethra are in close appo^ sition. When opportunity offers, make transverse sections of it, to Anat. Patliol. lib. ii. p. 13.URETHRA. 373 see how it looks in the different parts of its course. Through the glans it is flattened vertically, its two sides being in contact; through the prostate, also, it is nearly flat, except at the lower part, where its sides are kept asunder by the verumontanum, which projects upwards, leaving a furrow on each side. But throughout the rest of its course the lining membrane is disposed in longitudinal folds, which project into and accurately close the canal, .precisely on the same plan as that by which nature closes the (esophagus, p. 376. These longitudinal folds are plainly seen even when the urethra is sht open; indeed, they do not disappear unless the canal be forcibly stretched contrary to their direction.* If the urethra be laid open from end to end, you will see that the canal is not of uniform calibre throughout. The external orifice is the nan-owest, and the least dilatable part of the urethra; of which the object is that the urine may be expelled in a jet.' Therefore, any instrument which will enter the meatus ought to pass through into the bladder, if there be no stricture. The junc- tion of the membranous with the bulbous part is almost as narrow. The centre of the prostatic and the bulbous part are the largest. In the centre of the glans penis, the canal widens into a little sinus, termed "fossa navicularis." The most dilatable part of the urethra is the prostatic. Even the narrowest parts of the canal must admit of considerable dilata- tion, smce calculi of from 3 to 4 lines in diameter have been known to pass through it. The seminal ducts open into the prostatic part of the urethra by the side of the verumontanum. The ducts of Cowper's o-lands open mto the bulbous part. Besides these glands, a number of ducts open into the urethra, proceeding from Httle glands situated in the submucous tissue. These ducts, called the lacunar, are iust large enough to admit a bristle, and they all run in the same direction as the stream of the urine. Most of them are on the Diooa yesse s, while the furrows between them are exceedingly vascular fl demonatration of this fact the author is indebted to Mr. Quckett ' B B 3374 ANATOMY OF THE PENIS. lower surface of the urethra, but one called « lacuna magna " is ou the upper surface about 1^ inch down the canal. The mucous membrane of the urethra is laid upon a substratum of areolar tissue. Then comes a very thin layer of elastic fibrous tissue, of which the fibres are arranged both in a longitudinal and a transverse direction—giving the parts that springiness of which we are sensible in introducing the catheter. Outside this is a layer of muscular fibre. It has been demonstrated beyond aU dispute that the urethra is surrounded throughout its whole course by muscular fibre of the involuntary kind. Therefore, the whole of the canal having a muscular coat, similar to an intestme, any part of it is liable to a spasmodic contraction. The urethra is lined by spheroidal epithelium, and near tbe glans is provided with papillae: this, therefore, is the most sensi- ^'^ll^tlj, the urethra is provided with a closely-set network of absorbent vessels,-a fact which has been demonstrated by the beautiful quicksilver injections of Panizza * They run fxom behind, forwards, and join the absorbents of the glans penis. Eventually, their contents are transmitted down the great trunks onte dorsum penis to the inguinal glands. 'This satisfactorily explains the pathology of a bubo. , .u- .r.A The skin of the penis is remarkably thm and ex- Anatomt of te-^gible, and is connected to the body of the organ by PENIS. abundance of loose cellular tissue, in which fat is never found. At the end of the penis the skin forms an ample Md called the prepuce, or foreskin, for the protection of the glans t; and the Thin fold which passes from the under sm-face of t men the foreskin is, from he ^-^^J^^^^'Edition occasions uncovered, snch a state is called a l^^""^" troublesome and no inconyenience in childhood, but is ap , after P^^'^;^/' \° In painful, so that it is necessary to sHt np the prepuce and set^ gkns at U ^ persons .ho have a tight foresldn, it sometimes ^^ll^l'^^J^^'lZ. a "para- been uncovered, the prepuce cannot be agam tovn over it, this is calleaANATOMY or THE PENIS. 375 the glans to the prepuce is called " frenum preputii." If the glans be habitually covered by the prepuce, its svuface partakes more of the appearance of mucous membrane than of common skin ; but if the reverse, the cuticular covering of the glans thickens and dries. In a well-injected glans, we observe that the surface is covered by minute papilte, just like the end of the finger, which are endowed with keen sensibiHty by the great dorsal nerves of the penis. Bound its margin — " corona glandis" — are a number of minute sebaceous glands which secrete an unctuous matter called " smegma preputU:' In cases of congenital phimosis, this is apt to collect in considerable quantity, and becoming rancid, irritates and ex- coriates the glans and prepuce, particularly in summer and in hot countries. The chief bulk of the penis consists of erectile structure, named from the appearance of its interior, " co7p)us eavernosum" In a groove along its under surface runs the urethra, which is itself surrounded by a vascular spongy tissue called the corpus spongio- sum ; an accumulation of this at the end of the organ forms the glans. These two structures, then,—the corpus eavernosum, and the corpus spongiosum, — together form the penis; though they appear closely united, yet they are quite distinct from each other, as may be easily ascertained by making a transverse section, as shown, p. 376. The corpus eavernosum constitutes more than two-thirds of the bulk of the penis. It commences posteriorly by two gradually tapering portions, called the am, which are attached, one on each side, along a groove in the descending ramus of the pubes.* The crura converge, come into apposition at the root of the penis and then run on, side by side, to form the body of the organ.* phymosis." The neck of the glaus becomes tigMy girt, great distension and inflam- beteXcel '''"^ ^"""^ ^"'^^"'^ "^^^^^ may ensue unless the foreskin * While spealdng of the attachments of the penis, it should be mentioned that its upper part :s connected to the symphysis pubis by an elastic ligament caUed tS ligamentum suspensorium penis."3V6 ANATOMY OF Tllic PENIS. Anteriorly, each terminates in a rounded end which is received into a corresponding depression in the glans, which fits on to them like a cap. If a longitudinal section be made through the corpus caver- nosum, we observe that its interior is composed of a delicate reticular structure, surrounded by a thick fibrous coat. This coat 1. Corpus cavernosum. 2. Corpus spongiosum urethra:. 3. Vena dorsalis- 4, 4. Dorsal arteries. 5, 5. Dorsal nerves. TBANSVEKSB SECTION THHOUGH THE PENIS. forms a cylinder of adequate streng-th to protect and support the delicate structure within, and sufficiently elastic to aUow the dis- tension of the penis. Moreover, this coat forms a longitudinal partition, dividing the corpus cavernosum into two lateral halves. The partition, however, is only complete near the root of the perns; along the rest of the organ there are a number of gaps m it, so that it has somewhat the appearance of a comb ; for this reason it has been called the « septum pectiniforme:' Through this par- tition the blood vessels on one side communicate freely with those on the other: therefore both sides of the penis become erect simul- taneously. * And now let us examine the construction of the erectile, spongy- looking tissue inside. The interior of the cylinder is occupied by a number of deUcate elastic thread-like septa, which intersect each other in all directions, so as to form a multitude of minute cells. These communicate most freely with each other, as one may readily ascertain by blowing air into the penis. They are not of equal • size throughout the penis, for they are much smaller, and theirANATOMY OF TPIE TENIS. 377 component septa altogether thicker, at the root than they are towai-ds the glans. All the cells communicate freely with the arteries, men the penis is flaccid, they are empty; but when they become distended with blood, the penis.becomes erect. Here two questions arise, — 1. how does the blood get from the arteries into the cells ? 2. how does it return from the cells ? With regard to the first question. If the arteries of the penis be well injected, we find that the artery of the corpus cavernosum enters the inner side of the crus, and proceeds forwards near the septum, distributing numerous ramifications. These are supported m the middle of the fibrous threads, and after making several spiral turns, as it were for the purpose of being able to accommo- date themselves to the varying size of the penis, discharge their blood at once into the cells. Besides the ramifications which feed the ceils, there is a capillary system for the nutrition of all the parts concerned. _ With regard to the second question. If a coloured fluid be in- jected mto the corpus cavernosum, near the glans, it instantly fills all the cells, and returns partly through veins which pass out at the upper surface of the penis and join the great dorsal vein, partly through the deep veins of the penis which leave the inner side of each crus. Corpus spon- spongiosum is the erectile tissue which giosum. sm-rounds the urethra as it runs along the penis It commences in the middle of the perineum, in a bulb- hke form, and at the end of the penis it is continuous with the glans This IS proved by the fact, that if we inject the spongy body, we fiU the glans also ; not so if we inject the cavernous body. ObLve that the urethra does not pass precisely through the middle of the spongy body, but that it runs nearer to its upper surface. The bulb hangs more or less pendulous from the urethra, p. 336 In old persons it hangs lower dowa than in children, and is Conse- quently more exposed to injury in lithotomy. The corpus spongiosum has a much thinner external coat than the corpus cavernosum. Its interior is composed of a plexus of minute tortuous veins. This is plainly demonstrated b^^Ceting378 FEMALE PERINEUM. the dorsal vein of the penis with wax. In this way we not only fill the spongy body, but also the glans and the large veins which form the plexus rovind the corona glandis.* The cUei nerves of the penis are the pudic. The largest branches run along the dorsum to the outside of the glans: a few only enter the erectile tissue of the organ. This, it has already been men- tioned (p. 365), is supplied by filaments of the sympathetic nerve proceeding from the hypogastric plexus. The absorbent vessels proceeding from the glans and the in- tegument of the penis join the inguinal glands. The absorbents of°the glans communicate freely all round it: this explains why a venereal sore on one side, sometimes affects the inguinal glands on the other. THE DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEIBI. The pudenda in the female consist of folds of the integu- ment, called the labia. Between these is a longitudinal fissure which leads to the orifices of the urinary and genital canals. The pubic region is generally covered by an accumu- ^'^^^^ lation of fat, called the mons Veneris. From this, two thick folds of skin descend, one on either side, consti- tuting the " labia majora." Their junction, about one inch above the anus, is called the commissure, or "fremilmn labiorum : ' it is generally torn in the first labour. The inner layer of the skin of the labium is thinner, softer, and more like mucous membrane than the outer: for this reason, whenever matter forms m the labium, the abscess is almost sm-e to burst on the imier side, mere the labia are in contact, they are provided with a number of small sebaceous glands, of which the minute ducts are observable on the surface. These glands sometimes inflame and secrete an acrid, purulent matter which creates great irritation and pruritus of the mucous surface of the vulva, often difficult to allay. * In the Museum of the Eoyal CoUege of Sux-geons there is a beautify pr^^atk-n in which the glans penis is injeeted with quicksilver, cleai-ly showing it to consist of a plexus of veins. —Physiol. Series, No. 2588 A.FEMALE PERINEUM. 379 Labia mi Separating the external labia, we expose two smaller nora. and thinner folds of skio, one on either side, termed " labia minora," or, by the old anatomists, the nymphce. These folds converge anteriorly, and form a hood for the clitoris, called "preputium ditoridis;" posteriorly they are gradually lost on the inside of the labia majora. They never contain fat, like the labia majora, but are composed of a minute plexus of veins. Be- tween the nymphse and about the clitoris are a number of glands which secrete the same kind of unctuous matter as those about the corona glandis in the male. ^ In young persons, in whom the nymphse are protected from the air and from friction by the external labia, they are soft, moist, and of a rose-red colour: but when hypertrophied, so as to project beyond the labia, they become like the common integument, and acquire a bluish colour from the distension of theii- veins. Between the labia minora, and about a thumb's breadth below the clitoris, is the orifice of the urethra, or "meatus m-inarius." Immediately below this is the vagina, of which the orifice is par- tially closed in the vii-gin state, by a thin fold of skin called the " hymen." CHtoris. clitoris resembles in form and structure the penis, but on a very diminutive scale. Like the penis, it is at- tached to the sides of the pubic arch by two crura, fig. 82, p. 381 each of which is grasped by its own little erector clitoridis. The crm-a unite to form the body of the organ, which is tipped by a small glans. The glans is provided with extremely sensitive papilla, and covered by a Httle prepuce. Its dorsal arteries and nerves are exceedingly large in proportion to its size, and have precisely the same course and distribution as in the penis. Its in- ternal structure consists of a plexus of blood-vessels, which freely communicate with those of the labia minora, for one cannot be injected without the other. Uretlira. ^ '"^^^^^ '^^'^^^^l ^^^^^^ the vestibule, three-quarters of an mch in length, leads from the clitoris down to the orifice of the urethra. This orifice is not a perpendicular fissure like that of the penis, but rounded and puckered, and during life380 FEMALE PERINEUM. it has a peculiar dimple-like feel, which assists us in iiading it when we pass a catheter. You should practice the introduction of the catheter in the dead subject, for the operation is not so easy as might at first be imagined, provided the parts are not exposed. The point of the fore-finger of the left hand should be placed at the entrance of the vagina ; and then the catheter, guided by the finger, slips, after a little manoeuvring, into the urethra. The canal is about one inch and a half in length, and runs along the upper wall of the vagina, p. 384 ; indeed the two canals adhere so closely that you can feel the urethra through the vagina like a thick cord. Strictly speaking the urethra is slightly curved with the concavity upwards; but for aU practical purposes it may be considered straight. It is necessary, however, to be aware that its direction is not horizontal! In the unimpregnated state of the parts it runs nearly in the direction of the axis of the outlet of the pelvis; so that a probe pushed on in the course of the urethra would strike against the promontory of the sacrum. But after impregnation, when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis, the bladder is more or less raised also in consequence of their mutual connection ; therefore the urethra, in the latter months of utero-gestation, acquires a much more perpendicular course. The female m-ethra is provided with a "compressor muscle, essentially similar, both in origin and arrangement, to that which surrounds the membranous part of the urethra in the male It also passes through the triangular ligament, fig. 83, p. 384; indeed we cannot convey a better idea of it than by raying that it is just like the male would be if cut short immediately behind the bulb. Though the prostate gland is wanting, yet there are minute glands scattered all round it, especially near the neck of the bladder At the same time it should be observed, that, m consequence of the wider span of the pubic arch, and the more yielding nature of he surrounding structures, the female urethra is much more dila^ble than the male. By means of a sponge tent, it may be ^- fj^^J-^^ so as to admit the easy passage of the fore-finger into the bladder We avail ourselves of this great dilatability m the extraction of calculi.FEMALE PERINEUM. 381 Tlie mucous coat of the urethra is arranged in longitudinal plicas. Next to the mucous coat, is a layer of elastic and non-striped niusculai- fibres intermixed. Outside all is a plexus of veins bear- ing a strong resemblance to erectile tissue. Vagina. '^^^ vagina is the canal which leads up to the uterus; at present only the orifice of it can be seen. It is sur- rounded by a sphincter muscle, which is easily displayed by remov- ing the integument. The muscle is about three-fourths of an inch broad, and connected with the cutaneous sphincter of the anus in such a manner that they together form something like the figure 8. Bulb of the ^^^^ ^^^^ vagina, between the vagina. mucous membrane and the sphincter, there is a plexus of tortuous veins, termed the bulb of the vagina, from its analogy to the bulb of the urethi-a in the male. This vaginal bulb extends across the middle line between the meatus urinarius Kg. 82. 1. Meatus urinarius. / ^m-.-rr^ viiv \ 2. Vagina. 3. Bulb of vagina. 4. Clitoris with its two crura. 2^ BULB OF THE VAGINA. and the clitoris, as shown in fig. 82, which I took from an injected preparation m the Musee Orfila at Paris. Hymen. ^^"^^"^ a thin fold of skin which, in the viro-in extends across the lower pai't of the entrance of the vagina, about half an inch behind the fourchette. In most in- stances Its form is crescent-shaped, with the concavity upwards. But there are several varieties of hymen; sometimes there are two tegumentary folds, one on either side, so as to make the entrance of the vagma a mere vertical fissure *; or there may be a septum * Such an one may be seen in the M^.eum of the College, Phys. Series. No. 2843.CONTENTS OF TEMALE PELVIS. 382 perforated by several openings {Hymen crih'ifomis), or by one only {Hymen circularis). Again, there may be no opening at all in it, and then it is called Hymen imperforatus. Under this last condition no inconvenience arises till puberty. The menstrual discharge must then necessarily accumulate in the vagina: indeed, the uterus itself may become distended, and to such a degree as even to simulate pregnancy.* The presence of the hymen is not necessarily a proof of virginity, nor does its absence imply the loss of it. Cases are related by writers on midwifery in which a division of the hymen was requisite to facilitate parturition. In Meckel's Museum, at Halle, are pre- served the external organs of a female in whom the hymen is per- fect even after the birth of a seven-months child. . At the lower part of the orifice of the vagina is, im- Uowper s or i- o y Duverney's bedded in the loose tissue on either side, a gland f glands. about the size of a small pea. Each has a long slender duct, which runs forwards and opens on the inner side of the nympha. In cases of virulent gonorrhoea these glands are apt to become diseased, and give rise to the formation of an abscess in the labium, which is very difficult to heal. The description of the perineal branches of the pudic vessels and nerves, given in the dissection of the male perineum, applies, mutatis mutandis, to the female, excepting that they are propor- tionably small, and that the artery which supplies the bulb of the urethra in the male is distributed to the bulb of the vagina in the female. DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. It is presumed that you have some knowledge of the anatomy of the viscera in the male pelvis. Our present concern is, to examine the organs superadded in the female, viz. the uterus and its appen- * See Burns' Midwifery. t See Professor Tiedemann, Von den Duverneyschen Driisen den Weibs. Heidel* berg, 1840.CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. 383 dages. First, study their position in a general way ; secondly, their special anatomy. Looking into the female pelvis, we see the uterus Sicmonhe interposed between the bladder in front and the rectum uterus and behind. From each side of the uterus a broad fold of dages!''^" peritoneum extends to the side of the pelvis. These folds are called the broad ligaments of the uterus fig. 84, p. 393. On the posterior surface of the ligament are the ovaries, one on each side. They are completely covered by peri- toneum, and suspended to the ligament by a small pex'itoneal fold. Along the upper part of the ligament we find between its layers a tube about four inches long, called the Fallopian tube. A better name for it is the oviduct, since its oflfice is to convey the ovum into the uterus. For this purpose, one end of it terminates in the uterus, while that nearer to the ovary expands into a wide mouth, furnished all round with prehensile fringes, which, like so many fingers, grasp the ovum as soon as it is ready to escape from the ovary. Lastly, there run up to the ovary, between the layers of the broad ligament, the spermatic, or rather the ovarian vessels and nerves which arise from the aorta in the lumbar region, just as they do in the male, because the ovaries are orginally formed in the loins. Look on the anterior surface of the broad ligament, and you will see on either side between its layers what is called the round liga- ment of the uterus. This is a cord which proceeds from the fundus of the uterus, through the inguinal canal, just like the spermatic cord in the male, and terminates in the " mons Veneris." Besides one or two small blood-vessels, it contains muscular fibres analogous to those of the uterus: these increase very much in pregnancy, so that, about the full term, the cord becomes nearly as thick as the end of the little finger. Side tiew of After the removal of the innominate bone, as de- THE FEMALE scrlbcd at p. 350, the vagina, rectum, and bladder should PELVIS • 1 be moderately distended, and a catheter passed into the urethra. This done, trace the reflections of the peritoneum.384 CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. ry a From the front of the rectum the peritoneum is of the peri- reflected on to a small part of the vagma, thus terming toneum. ^^^^ ^^1^^^ ^-^^ „ recto-vaginal pouch." From the vagina we trace the peritoneum over all the back, but only about half way down the front of the uterus ; thence it is at once reflected over the posterior surface of the bladder, on to the wall of the abdomen. Fig. 83. Urethra surround- ed by its corapres. sor muscle . . . Vagina. Bectum Peritoneum in dotted uutliue. Uterus. VEETICAL SECTION THBOUGH THE FEMAXB PELVIS, We can easily understand, that in cases of ascites the water might distend the recto-vaginal pouch, and bulge into the vagma, and that it would be practicable to draw it off through this channel.* * In the Medical Commumcations, vol. i., a case is related in .vhich gf''"^ f flvud were drawn o£P by tapping through the vagina. The woman ™diately aft^- wards passed iirine, which she could not do before. See also a case in Med. and riijs. Journal, vol vii., p. 412.CONTENTS OJT FEMALE PELVIS. 385 Pelvic fascia. ^° description of the fascia already given in the dissection of the male pelvis (p. 351), nothing need here be added except that from the side of the pelvis it is reflected over the side of the vagina and the uterus as well as the bladder. It is this fascia which in great measure supports and slings up the uterus in its proper level in the pelvis. Of its efficacy in this respect any one may be convinced by trying to pull down the uterus through the vagina. When, from any cause, the fascia becomes relaxed, there is consequently a greater liability to " pro- lapsus uteri." Levator ani. For the description of this muscle see p, 360. Bladder female bladder is broader transversely, and, upon the whole, more capacious than the male. The vesical plexus of veins, as might be expected, is not so large, and there is no prostate gland. But the short urethra has a constrictor muscle, as in the male, and is supported in a similar manner by the pelvic fascia. Venous Though the veins round the neck of the bladder are P^^s abo.t comparatively small in the female, attention will be im- mediately attracted by the plexus of large veins which surround the vagina and the rectum. They seem out of all pro- portion to the size of the arteries. Their congestion in preo-nancy sufficiently accounts for the dark colour of the vagina and the ex- ternal organs, and the frequent occurrence of hemorrhoidal tumors * It is necessary to remove these veins, with the cellular tissue in which they are imbedded, before a clear view of the parts can be obtained. TTrethxa. Urethra we have already spoken at p. 379. But _ in the side view of the parts we have the opportunity of observmg how closely the bladder and urethra are connected to the iipper wall of the vagina, and we can have no difficulty in under- standing why in cases of .protracted delivery, it sometimes happens * During pregnancy, varicose tumors may form evon it, fl,„ ^„ • t , Mod Zoitung, 1840, No. 11, a case is related "a woman I TL T ^"'I" bled to death from the biirstinn-nf n 1.„.„„ „ • • ^^°> 'i* "lo sixth mouth, are related by Siebold' ' ^ther cases of the land c c386 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. that the contiguous coats of the bladder and the vagina give way, and that there remains a fistulous communication between them, which continues to be a depending drain for the urine. At the present stage of the dissection slit open the ■^'^g^"^- whole of the vagina along the side, and then you will obtain a clear idea of the manner in which it embraces the lower end of the uterus, and of the extent to which the neck of the uterus projects into it. This proceeding will also make more in- telligible what is to be observed respecting the length, axis, and width of the vagina. The length of the vagina, in an unimpregnated healthy adult, is, on an average, about 4^ inches. It may be more, or it may be less: the difference in each case depending upon the depth ot the pelvis, the stature and age of the individual. Owing to the curved direction of the vagina, the anterior wall is about three-quarters of an inch shorter than the posterior. The vagina, however, is never so long that we cannot, during life, feel the neck of the uterus projecting at the top of it; higher up, or lower down, according to circumstances. For instance, it is a little lower in the erect than in the recumbent position: again, in the early months of utero- gestation, the uterus descends a little into the vagma, so that this Lai becomes shorter : the reverse holds good when the uterus beo-ins to rise out of the pelvis. The axis of the vagina is slightly curved with the concavity up- wards : for all practical pin-poses it may be said to f ^--^P^^^ ^ ^ the axis of the outlet of the pelvis ; whereas the axis of the uterus corresponds with that of the brim of the pelvis. The width of the vagina is not uniform throughout The nai- rowest part is at the orifice: it is also a little constricted round the nelk of the uterus. The widest part is about the middle: sup- posing atransverse section to be made through it m this situation ' would present the appearance of a bro.d horizontal f^sure If therefore, you would insert the bivalve speculum upon --^^^^ principles, consequently with the least amount of Pa-, the W^^^ of the speculum should be vertical when introduced into the orifice of the vagina, and afterwards turned horizontally.CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. 387 Uterus. -^^^ uterus is the receptacle which receives the ovum, retains it for nine months so as to bring it to maturity' and then expels it by virtue of its muscular walls. Enough has been already said at p. 383 of its situation and peritoneal connec- tions. We have now to notice that its axis slants forwards, so that upon the whole, the axis of the vagina and uterus describes a curve pretty nearly parallel to the axis of the pelvis. The uterus then IS so placed that it is ready to rise out of the pelvis into the ab- domen after the embryo has attained a certain size. The wisdom of this provision becomes manifest in cases where, from some acci:. dental cause, the natural direction of the uterus has been altered, so that, mstead of rising freely out of the pelvis, it becomes what IS called retroverted; that is, the large end is tilted backwards against he sacmm, while the apex presses forwards against the neck of the bladder. It need hardly be said that such a mal- position more or less obstructs the passage of both urine and faeces. Eespec ing the size and shape of the uterus in the unimpreg- nated state a better idea is conveyed by a single glance than by any description. Anatomists generally liken it to what a Bear would beif it were a little flattened ; in other words, itis triangu a Zll ir'r - -bout fhree \ ?S • at the upper pait; but there is variety in this respect, arising from age, the effe of pregnancies, and other causes. ^ ' ^""^^"^^^ For convenience of description, we divide the organ into the fim dus the body, and the cervix. The term fundus fs appl ed t t^t part which lies above the level of the Fallopian tubes (p 393) The oi me necR. It is a transverse fissure, with a slio-hfl^ -n,. • . lip m front and behind and from '^'^^^^^^ Pioi»inent mouth of a tench, nts callfd Tw^/'^^^^^^ -semblance to the W "'^ ^^'^ anatomisfe the - os Postponing for the present the examination of the interior of the388 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. vagina and the uterus, let us pass on to the vessels and nerves of these organs. In addition to the branches given off m the male Z- (p. 361), each internal iliac artery, in the female, furnishes tcries. ^ branch to the iiterus, another to the vagina. ^ The uterine artery proceeds from the anterior division of the internal iliac towards the neck of the uterus, and then ascends tortuously by the side of the uterus, giving off numerous branches to it. The fundus of the uterus is chiefly supplied by branches from the ovarian arteries. The vaginal artery ramifies along the side of the vagina, and sends branches to the lower part of the bladder and the rectum. The nerves of the uterus are derived from the sacral Nerves of ^^33.^^8, and from the hypogastric plexus (p. 365). They the uterus. ^^^^^^^^^ blood-vessels to the neck of the uterus, and ascend with them along the sides of the organ. The greater part of the nerves soon leave the vessels, and, sub- dividing sink into the substance of the uterus, chiefly about its neck and the lower part of its body. But some very small filaments continue with the vessels, and form around them plexuses, upon which, according to the dissections of Mr. Beck*, minute gangha are found. , . The question whether the nerves of the uterus enlarge diu-ing preo-nancy like the arteries, has given rise to much discussion and'is still " sub judice." Great names might be quoted m support of the most opposite opinions. However, in a surgical point ot view,the OS uteri maybe said to have no nerves, for it is insensible to the cautery and to the knife. The absorbent vessels of the uterus are very small m its un- impregnated state, but greatly increase in size when it is gravid^ Those from the fundus and the ovaries proceed mth the spermatic vessels to the lumbar glands; and this is the reason why the lumbar glands are sometimes affected m ovarian disease. Ihose from the body and the lower part of the uterus accompany the * Philosophical Transactions for 1846.CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. 389 Uterine artery, and join the glands in the pelvis; some, however, run along with the round ligament to the groin: hence in certain conditions of the uterus, the inguinal glands may be affected. Structiu-ooftbe ""^S^""^' ovaries, and oviducts should vagina, uterus, HOW be Collectively removed from the pelvis for the ovaries, and ovi- purpose of examining their internal structure. And first of the vagina. Supposing the vagina to be laid open, we observe that it is lined by a mucous membrane of a pale rose colour: and that this mem- brane IS rough and forrowed, especially near the orifice. A more or less prominent ridge runs along its anterior, and another alono- Its posterior wall. From either side of these, which are called cohcmnce rugarum," proceed a series of transverse ridges with rough jagged margins directed forwards. They are well marked m young females who are still virgins, but repeated parturition and mcreasmg age gradually smooths them down. The use of the vaginal rug^ is to excite the sensibility of the glans in coition. They themselves also possess keen sensibility, for they are richly provided with papillse. The mucous membrane has a thick epithelial Hning, and in the submucous tissue is an abundant supply of muciparous glands! They increase m number and size towards the uterus, for the pro- the child This secretion is thick, creamy, slightly acid, and differs altogether from the secretion of the uterine glands, Uich xs glairy, albuminous, and slightly alkaline, ^en ;oured oTt n :rd'" —s what t The chief strength of the vagina depends upon a fibro-cellular coa which IS about one-twelfth of an inch in thickness. T tM coat be minu e y injected, we find that it is made up almost entirelv of the inosculations of blood-vessels. So much so th.f ! ^ tomists regard it as erectile tissue. ' '""^^ Before the uterus is laid open, examine a little more fullv fh shape of that portion of the neck which proiects iZ Z ^ F.st, then, it appears that the back pai^ rt^e'c^-J.^^^::^*390 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. into the vagina more than the front; but this merely arises from the vagina being attached higher up behind it. Supposing that the vagina were entirely cut away from the cervix, the anterior lip of the uterus would appear to project a trifle more than the pos- terior. For this reason, as well as on account of the natural slope forwards of the uterus, the front lip is always felt first in an exami- nation per vaginam.* The length, however, and the general ap- pearance of the vaginal part of the cervix varies according to the age of the individual, and it is also considerably altered by partu- rition. In the adult -virgin it is smooth, plump, round, and projects about half an inch : its mouth is a small transverse fissure. But after the stretching which it undergoes in labour, one cannot wonder that it loses its plumpness, that the lips become flaccid and fissm-ed, and the mouth larger than it was before.t The uterus must now be laid open by a longitudinal incision, to examine its interior. The first thing that attracts attention, is the great thickness of the walls. Before you come into the proper ca%aty in the body of the uterus, you have to slit up a long narrow channel which leads up into it through the neck. This channel is not of the same dimensions throughout: it is dilated in the middle, and gradually narrows towards each end. The upper end, which leads into the body of the uterus, is called " os internum;' the lower end, which leads into the vagina, " os externum:' The pas- sage itself is called the cavity or the neck. It remains unchanged in pregnancy for some time after the cavity in the body has ex- * THs is the only way to reconcUe the discrepancies one meets with in anatomical works respecting the comparative length of the Ups of the uterus Kx-aus Weber, Buseh, and others, say the anterior is the longer; Mayer, Meckel, Quaan, and others, *7lnstlnces are recorded in which the neck'of the uterus is pretematurally long. It hal been known to project, even as much as an inch and a half H.to the va^. In such cases it graduaUy tapers, and terminates in a very nai-row mouth. This is said to be one call of sterility, and it is ^^^ora^'^^'^e.^ e.ti... to M.U^^^^^^ cut off a portion of the neck. In support of this opinion, it is s ated tl^^* ^upuj tr n was onee consulted by a lady on account of barrenness; finding the neck f f^, unusuaUy elongated, he removed a portion of it, and in due time the lady became pregnant. (Hyrtl, Handbuch der top. Anatom.)CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. 391 panded, but gradually disappears with the increasing size of the embryo. The shape of the cavity in the body of the uterus is triangular, with the apex towards the cervix. In a virgin uterus the cavity is remarkably small, and its sides are convex; but in a uterus which has borne many children, the cavity has lost the convexity of its sides, and has increased in capacity. Each angle at the base is somewhat produced, and leads to the minute opening of the ovi- duct. This production of the angles is noticed more or less in different females, and is the last indication of the two horns of the uterus in some orders of mammalia, ^ The interior of the uterus is perfectly smooth at the fundus, but just the reverse at the cervix. Here you remark that there is a central longitudinal ridge, both in front and behind, (just as in the vagma,) and from these, other closely set ridges curve off laterally like the branches of a palm-tree. The old anatomists called it " arhor vit<B." The roughness produced by these ridges, occasions an impression as though we were touching cartilage whenever a metallic sound is introduced into the uterus. The neck of the uterus is provided with small glands, of which the mmute ducts open in the furrows between the ridges referred to The secretion of these glands is glairy, albuminous, slightly alkaline, and sometimes comes away in such abundance as to be exceedingly troublesome. Soon after conception, the secretion dries up so as to plug the mouth of the uterus, but shortly before and during parturition it is poured out in great quantity, to facilitate the passage of the child. It happens, occasionally that one or more ot the ducts of these glands become obstructed, and then dilate into small transparent vesicles, which gradually rise to the surface and burst. These were first described by Naboth* and supposed to be true ova : hence their name " ovula NahotU:' The mucous membrane of the uterus is much more delicate than that of the vagina, and is scarcely separable from the subjacent tissue. The greater part of it is Uned by a ciliated epithelium bu * De SterilitatG mulierum. Lips., 1707. c c 4392 CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. the epithelium of the cervix is tessellated like that of the vagina. The chief pecuharity, however, about the membrane is this; —every part of it is covered with minute follicles or tubes arranged at right angles to its surface. These tubes become greatly developed shortly after impregnation, and are presumed to take an active part in the formation of the " membrana decidual The greater portion of the walls of the uterus consists of muscular fibres of the unstriped or involuntary kind, like that of the bladder and alimentary canal. The texture of the fibres is so close, that it is exceedingly difficult to ascertain their precise arrangement; indeed, in the unimpregnated uterus it is useless to make the attempt, for they are comparatively atrophied. But in pregnancy, when aU the component structures of the organ undergo simulta- neous development, the fibres run either longitudmally or in con- centric circles. The longitudinal fibres form a thick outside stratum, of which the direction is from the fundus to the neck of the uterus. The concentric circles form the deeper strata, and surround the orifices of the oviducts. Again, there are others which take a more oblique course, so that, upon the whole, theu- collective disposition is such as to exert equal pressure on all sides when called into operation. At the same tune that they expel the fcetus, the muscular fibres perform another very unportant function; they close the large venous sinuses developed for its nutrition. Therefore, very little hemorrhage accompanies the expulsion of the placenta, provided it have been attached to the fundus or the side of the uterus. But every one knows the danger of what is called a « placenta praevia. Here the placenta, planted as it were over the orifice of the uterus, is attached to a part of the organ which must of necessity expand durina labour : thus the reverse of what is common takes place, and every pain increases, instead of checking, the flooding. For the same reason, paralysis of the muscular fibres in immediate con- nection with the placenta, be it where it may, is likely to be a source of serious hemorrhage in parturition. The Fallopian tubes or oviducts are situated, one on FaUopian tubes. .^^^^ ^.^^^ ^^^^^ ^^ppe,. ^Qj-der of th6 broad liga-393 CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. ment of the uterus, fig. 84. They are about four or five inches long. One end leads into the uterus; the other-terminates in a wide funnel-shaped mouth, surrounded by a fringe, like the opening in a pink flower. This is best seen by floating it in water. One or two of the fringes are generally connected with the outer end of the ovary. If the subject be well injected, you will see that they ai-e richly supplied with blood-vessels from the spermatic artery. If you open the oviduct from the expanded end, and introduce a Kg. 84. DIAGRAM O. THE ™rs, ITS BBOAB XIUAMBKTS, THE OVABIES, A^ ^^^^ 1. Uterus. 2. Ovary. 3. Fallopian tube. 4. Fimbriated extremity of FaUopian tube. 5. 5. Broad ligament. 6. Vagina. probe into it, you will find that the tube ruus very tortuously at first, then straight into the uterus, gradually ooutracLg u sZ'a the way, so that the uteriue orifice scarcely admits a bristle I mucous humg .s gathered iuto lougitudiual wavy folds, especiaut at the ovar,au eud : with the microscope we detect th^t it fe pro vided with a columnar ciliated epithelium. The free end of 2 o«duct communicates with the cavity of the peritoueum 4 ; the only mstauce in the body where a mucous membranTis ihZt l contmuous wrth a serous one. It explains how the eX™ ™^ escape ,nto the peritoneal cavity, tho^h this be an extremelv I occurrence, because such ample provision has been mi Z^'n tTCONTENTS OF TEMALE PELVIS. 394 It also explains what is said to have taken place, namely, the escape of the water in di-opsy through the Fallopian tubes. The ovaries are the most important parts of the female OvAMEs. generative organs, since they contain the ova or the germs. They were called by Gralen " testes muliebres." We have already seen that they are suspended to the back of the broad ligament of the uterus by a short peritoneal fold, which transmits their proper vessels and nerves: besides this, they are connected to the uterus by a thin cord, called the ligament of the ovary. They are of an oblong form, with the long axis transverse, and a little smaller than the testicles. In females who have not often menstru- ated, their surface is smooth and even: in after life it becomes wrinkled and scarred by the repeated escape of the ova. The ovary has'nearly the same coverings as the testicle. There is first the serous coat, and beneath it the proper fibrous coat, or what is called the " tunica alhnginea" If a section be made through the ovary, you find that it contains transparent vesicles, bedded in a soft fibrous-looking tissue, remarkably vascular when properly injected, called the " stroma'' of the ovary. The transparent vesicles just alluded to are the ovisacs, or " Graafian " * vesicles. They vary in number from eight to twelve, and in size from that of a pin's head to a pea. The smallest are near the centre; but as they advance towards maturity, they gra- dually approach the surface, increasing at the same time in size. They contain a transparent albuminous fluid. If after puncturing one of the larger vesicles you examine its contents under a micro- scope, you find suspended in ft the true ovum or germ.f It is this minute body which, escaping from the Graafian vesicle on the surface of the ovary, is grasped by the Fallopian-tube and con-" veyed into the uterus. The ruptured vesicle is converted soon afterwards into a yellowish-looking mass called " coripxis luteum;' which persists for a while, and degenerates afterwards into a small fibrous cicatrix. * So caUed after De Graaf, a Dutch anatomist, who discovered them in 1672, and believed they were the true ova. t This was fii'st distinctly pointed out by Von Baer in 1827.ANATOMY OJF THE LIVER. 393 The ramifications of the' ovarian artery through the ovary are remarkable for their convolutions: they run in parallel lines, as in the testicle. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. Having already studied the position and relations of the several abdominal viscera (p. 301), you should now examine their parti- cular configuration and structure. LiTEE. ^^^^^ largest gland in the body. In an adult male it weighs between four and five pounds. In shape we hardly know what to compare it to. It is thick and round at the back; towards the front it gradually slopes to a thin border. Its surface is entirely covered by peritoneum, except a small part behmd, which IS connected to the diaphragm by cellular membrane, and just m the hollow for the gall-bladder. On the upper surface of the liver, which is convex, in adaptation to the diaphragm, there IS nothing deserving of notice beyond the indication of the division of the organ into a right and a left lobe, the right being the larger. But If the liver be turned on its back, you see that the under surface IS u-regidar, and that there are several fissm-es in it for the passa<.e of vessels. First, there is the « longitudinal fissure;^ dividing Fissures. "^^^ ^^^"^ the left lobe ; it contains the round liaa- ment or the obliterated umbilical vein of the foetus The continuation of the longitudinal fissure to the posterior border of the hver contains the remains of what was in the fcetus, the ductus venosus," it is therefore called the « fissure of the ductus venosus." Secondly, there is the « transverse fissure;^ where the great vessels enter the liver. Thirdly, there is the hollow for the gall-bladder. Lastly, in the same line with this, is the channel for the vena cava. Now the relative position of these parts may perhaps, be best impressed on the memory by comnarino- X collectively to the letter H. The transverse'fisIirHe^ cross bar of the letter, the longitudinal fissure represents the bar; the gall-bladder and vena cava together make"h^!^balANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 396 Lobes. This comparison to the letter H serves to remind u.s of certain other parts of the liver, to which particular names have been given. In the upper square of the letter is a tongue-like lobe called " lobulus Spigelii,'" this is connected to the right lobe by a ridge or tail, called " lobulus caudatus." Again, the area of the lower square is called the " lobulus quadratus." Lastly, Fig. 85. 1. Longitudinal fis- sure. 2. Continuation of the longitudi- nal fissure (for the ductus ve- nosus). 3. Transverse fis- sure. 4. Gall bladder. 5. Vena cava in its groove. 6. Right lobe. 7. Left lobe. 8. Lobulus Spigelii. 9. Lobulus cauda- tus. 10. Lobulus quad- ratus. DIAGHAM OF THE TJNDEB SUBrACE OF THE LIVEB. the right lobe presents a shallow depression, adapted to the right ^^Thf liver has a thin fibro-cellular coat or capsule, which is best seen on those parts of it not covered by peritoneum. So far it is lite other glandular organs. But the capside does not send down partitions to form a framework for the interior of the organ. At any rate, nothing of the kind is observed with the naked eye when a portion of the capsule is stripped from the surface. Aether there be a cellular framework or not between the lobules, it is cer- tain that it must be exceedingly delicate: this is the reason why the Kver is so liable to be lacerated by external violence, or by the action of the abdominal muscles. , i. i The liver is composed of the ramifications of the portal S^of vein and hepatic artery which carry the blood to it, and secrete the bile; of the ramifications of the excretory liver.ANATOMY OF THE LIVER, 397 or hepatic duct; of the ramifications of the hepatic veins, which return the blood from it, and of nerves and absorbents. Now, it will facilitate the understanding of the subject, if you bear in mind, —1, that the portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct, ramify together from first to last. They are enclosed in a sheath of loose fibro-cellular tissue, called. « Qlisson's capsuU;' which enters with them at the transverse fissiu-e : this explains why the portal vein when cut transversely, does not gape, but partially collapses: 2, that the hepatic vems run from first to last by themselves, and terminate m the vena cava as it passes through the liver. These, havino- no cellular sheath, always appear, on transverse section, with open mouths. ^ Now come the questions, What is the distribution of the minute branches of the portal vein ? what that of the hepatic vein ? These questions are determined by injecting each set of vessels simid- taneously with a fluid of a different colour,-say a blue fluid for the portal vein, and a yellow for the hepatic. Afterwards, sections in_ difi-erent directions must be made, and examined under the microscope. In answer to the first question, it may be stated that the minute ramifications of the portal veins map out the substance of the Hver into small spaces caUed the lobules. The boundary veins are termed ^nter-lobular:' The spaces can be seen even with the naked eye They have a different shape according to the direction m which they axe cut: on the surface of the liver, or which comes to the same thing, in a transverse section, they look like mosaic pavement, fig. 86; but in a perpendicular section they some- what resemble an oak leaf. From the circumference of the lo- bule, the capillaries of the portal vein penetrate into its arei mmutely inosculating with each other, and then freely commu- nicate towards the middle of the lobule with the radicles ofZe hepatic vein. The second question maybe answered thus:-The radicle, nf the hepatic veins commence within the lobulp bv fr.. • V with those of the „„rt.d vein., IZZT'^'T veia termed «which ruu. dt^The ctu^e't;398 ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. the lobule. This central vein opens at once into an hepatic vein termed " siib-lobular," larger or smaller as the case may be, upon which the lobule is sessile. Thus, then, on a perpendicular section, we should see the hepatic veins running into the central vein, like the side veins of an oak leaf do into the midrib (fig. 87); while on a transverse section, they would present a starred appearance. a. Inter-lobular vein. b. Intra-lobular vein. TKANSVEESE SECTIONS OF THEEE LOBUIES OF THE LIYEB, MAGNOTEB TO SHO^ THE POBTAIi VENOUS PLEXUS. (After Kiernan.) And now a word or two respecting the ultimate ramifications of the hepatic artery and the hepatic duct. The hepatic artery, entering the liver at the transverse fissure, divides and subdivides with the portal vein, and ultimately rami- fies with it between the lobules. A few only of the arterial capil- laries enter the lobules. The chief office of the artery appears to be, to supply the coats of the other vessels of the liver,—m other words, the machinery of the organ. The hepatic ducts commence within the lobules by numerous ramifications, which form a close network near the circumference of each lobule. From this network branches proceed on all sides, and accompany the portal veins.399 GALL BLADDER, AND SPLEEN. Fig. 87. LONGITTJDINAI, SECTIONS OF THE LOBUIES OP THE LIVER. INTEA- lOBULAB VEINS SEEN JOINING THE SUB-LOBUIAB. Gfreat doubt still exists as to how the ducts begin. Some say they commence by blind extremities; others by simple channels between the hepatic cells. Be this as it may, their radicles are surrounded by mi- nute cells, which are in fact the es- sential organs which secrete the bile. The interior of each lobule, that is, the space left between the several vessels, is filled by the " hepatic cells." These are nucleated, and have a mean diameter of about -^th of an inch. In some cases they contain fat glo- bules, and when these accumulate in large quantities, they constitute what is called a «fatty liver" The office of the cells is to separate the bile from the blood, in some way which we do not understand: when filled with bile they burst, and cUscharge themselves into the bile ducts. Such, in outline, is the minute anatomy of the liver. Eio-htly understood, we can have no difficulty in determining, in a section ot the organ, whether the portal or the hepatic venous system be congested.* The present views entertained concerning the functions of the liver may be thus briefly expressed.-l. It purifies the blood by excreting carbon and hydrogen, which, being subsequently re- absorbed, combine with oxygen, and thus help to keep up the heat ot the body. 2. It forms sugar which passes into the hepatic vems and being consumed in the process of respiration, helps to maintain ammal heat. 3. The bile assists in converting the chyme into chyle and reducing it into a state fit to be absorbed by the lacteals. 4. The bile acts as a slight natural aperient. Gall bladdeb. . ^aU bladder, a reservoir for the bile, is confined by the peritoneum in a slight depression on the under400 GALL BLADDER, AND SPLEEN. surface of the right lobe of the liver (p. 396). Observe that it is shaped like a pear. Its size varies a little in different subjects; generally speaking,, it is about four inches long, and will hold about 11 oz. of fluid. Its narrow end, or neck, makes a bend downwards, and terminates in a duct, called the " cystic,''' which, after a course of about one inch, joins the hepatic. The common duct, " ductus communis choledochus," formed by their union, is about three or four inches long. Eemember that it opens into the back of the descending part of the duodenum, after running very obliquely through the coats of the bowel. Exclusive of its partial peritoneal covering, the gall-bladder has only two coats. The outer, consisting of fibro-cellular tissue, con- tains organic muscular fibres; the inner is the mucous coat. The mucous 'coat is generally tinged yellow by the bile. Its chief peculiarity is that it is gathered into ridges which give it a honeycomb appearance. It is covered by a columnar epithelium, which secretes an abundance of viscid mucous. Furthermore, observe that, at the bend of the neck of the gall-bladder, both its coats project very much into the mterior, making the opening con- siderably narrower than it appears to be outside. Lastly, in the cystic duct, the mucous membrane presents a series of folds, so arranged, one after the other, as to form a complete spiral valve. The probable use of this is to prevent the too rapid flow of the bile. Besides acting as a reservoir for bile, the gall-bladder adds a bitter principle to it, which makes it keep. The bile in the liver is sweet; that in the gall-bladder is intensely bitter. The spleen is a very vascular spongy organ, varying in Spleen. ^.^^ according to the quantity of blood in it, and fluc- tuating in weight, consistently with health, between 5 and 12 oz; Under ordinary circumstances it is of a reddish blue colour, owing to the large amount of blood in it. But the proper colour of the siibstance of the spleen is a yellowish grey. This is well seen m cases of cholera, where the organ is bloodless and collapsed ; it is also proved by injecting the splenic artery with water, which returns freely by the veins, and washes out all the blood. Its shape is elliptical. In its natural position it is so placed401 SPLEEN. that the long axis is neai-Iy vertical. The outer side, adapted to the diaphragm and ribs, is convex, while the inner side, adapted to the great end of the stomach, is concave. The blood-vessels enter the concave side by several ramifications, corresponding to the primordial lobes of the organ. Besides its peritoneal coat, the spleen has a fibrous capsule, which is elastic, to accommodate itself to the varying size of the organ. This capsule not only covers the outside of it, but sends into the interior numerous threads, which cross each other in various direc- tions, and form a network, dividing the spleen into so many cham- bers. Moreover, it is interesting to observe that at the points where the bands cross they are secured by a small white knot. Besides constituting the general framework of the organ, the cap- sule provides the vessels with sheaths which support them through- out their ramifications in the interior. The splenic chambers are filled by what is called the "pulp" of the spleen. _ This is a soft reddish-brown substance, easily scraped off with a kmfe. Examined under the microscope, it consists entirely of gland cells of a pale yellow coloiu-, and smaller than the corpuscles of the blood. Here and there, however, in the pulp are found other larger cells, of a white colour and perfectly spherical form. Attention was first directed to them by Malpighi, and they have therefore been called after him the "Malpighian bodies." They are not free like the smaller cells, but attached, each by a slender pedicle to one of the threads. The pedicle contains a small artery, which ramifies over the surface of the cell, and then terminates in a brush of capillaries which spread out in the pulp The xn erior o the cell is filled with a clear fluid and a multitude eleZnH" ' ' " " " '^'"^ '''' ^^^^-g How are the blood-vessels distributed ? The splenic artery enters the spleen by several branches, which ramify throughout the * In the human apleen they ai-c about ^ i-h h,r.h ,v r ^ look for them unless'tho subject VeZtl^t^ ^ZTsoo V the pulp It is better, therefore, to oxannne'th'm L ^he oT^^^^^^^ in which animals they are about ith inch in cliameTe ^ "^"'^ D DKIDNEiT. 402 Fig. 88. organ, supported by sheaths derived from the capsule.* These ramifications, however, do not communicate with each other, for, if injection be thrown separately into one branch, it fills part only of the spleen. The smallest ramifications spread out in a brush- like manner through the pulp, and then lead into the veins. The veins themselves form in the pulp a minute network. But this part of the circulation is not yet thoroughly made out. Thus, it appears that the spleen is essentially a great blood gland: that it consists of chambers filled with secreting gland cells of va- rious size, between which ramify minute arteries and veins. It is prestimed that ,the cells in some way or other elaborate the blood. Some physiologists consider the spleen to be the bu-th-place of the white corpuscles of the blood. Others have arrived at the conclu- sion that it serves as the grave- yard of the red ones. The precise function of the organ is unknown. With the form and colour of the kidney, aU are familiar. Its weight is about five ounces in the male, rather less the female. In the majority in SECTION OF THE KIDNEY. 1. Ureter. 2. Pelvis of tlae kidney. 3. 3, 3. PapiUiB. of cases, the left is heavier than the right. It is surrounded by a thin cap- sule, wtich adheres by minute vessels to its sxirface, but does not penetrate into its mtenor. or this reason the capsule can, under ordinary circumstances, be * The ramificatious of the splenic artery may be well seen by washing away pulp, and floating the flocculent-looldng spleen in water.KIDNEY. 403 readily stripped off; if not, the presumption is, that its adhesion is the result of disease. The best way to display the anatomy of the kidney is to make a longitudinal section throuarh it. This shows two distinct structures. o o The superficial structure, called the " cortical,'^ is of a uniform red colour, because the blood vessels are most copiously distributed in it; it is the secreting part of the organ. The deeper structure, called the " tubular," consists of the minute tubes which carry off the urine. These tubes, converging from the cortical part, are col- lected into from ten to sixteen pyramidal bundles (fig. 88) : their nipple-like points (termed papillcB), consisting of the terminations of a great number of coalesced tubes, project into the pelvis of the kidney; the common receptacle of the secretion, from all parts of the organ.* The pelvis of the kidney is the dilated beginning of the ureter. It is funnel-shaped, and its broad part divides into two principal channels, which again branch out and form from eight to twelve cup-like excavations (called the calices). Into each of these calices one, sometimes two, papillae project. The renal artery runs to the kidney between the vein in front, and the ureter behind, and divides into five or six branches, which, again subdividing, make their way between the pyramids to the cortical substance. Their minute ramifications terminate in one of two ways,—either in plexuses round the tubes, or in the Malpighian bodies. Examine with a microscope a portion of a minutely Malpighian ^, , , bodies. mjected kidney. Observe that the cortical substance is full of red round knots, formed by the coils of minute blood-vessels; these are the Malpighian■f bodies (fig. 89). * Each pyramid represents what was, in the early stage of the kidney's growth, a distinct and independent lobe. In the human subject the lobes gi-adually coalesce, and no trace of theii- primordial state remains, except the pjTamidal arrangement of the tubes. But in the Iddiieys of the lower mammaUa, of birds and reptiles, the lobes are permanently separate. t So named after Malpighi, a celebrated. Italian anatomist who Uved during the middle and latter part of the seventeenth eentuiy.404 KIDNEY AND KENAL CAPSULES. They are, on an average, about j^th of an incli in diameter. Ac- cording to tlie recent researches of M. Bowman *, each is loosely surrounded by a flask-like capsule, formed by the dilatation of the urinary tube. The continuation of the tube passes off from that part of the capsule oppo- site to where the artery entered; after making many convolutions, it enters one of the pyra- mids, and discharges its contents into the pelvis. The vein returning the blood from the Mal- pighian body leaves the capsule close to where the artery entered ; but instead of going at once out of the kidney, as in other organs, it forms a capillary plexus round the convolutions of the tube. The special purpose of this plexus appears to be the secretion of the solid matter of the urine ; while the Malpighian body filters the watery part of the urine into the capsule, and washes the more solid part down the tube.f Lastly, the minute urinary tubes, the pelvis of the kidney, and the ureter, are lined by tessellated epithelium. This body is situated at the top of the kidney, and in shape resembles a cocked hat. It is surrounded by a thin fibrous covering, which sends down partitions into the interior through furrows observed on the surface. If a perpendicular section be made through it, we find that it consists of a pretty firm exterior or cortical part, and of an interior soft pulpy substance. The cortical portion is of a yellow colour-, and forms the principal part of the organ, men examined with the high powers of the microscope, it is found to be composed of independent closed tubes, about ^th of an inch in diameter, arranged perpendicular to the surface, and covered by the minute a. Artery, V. Vein. c. Capsule. d. Urinary tube. Stjpea- EBNAL CAPSULE. * See Ms paper in the PMosoph. Trans, for 1842, Part I. t That the vessel leaving the Malpighian body is a vein, and that a constituent part of the urine is secreted by venous blood, is inferred from two reasons: 1, from the analogous case of the vena portse, out of which the bUe is elaborated in the liver ; 2, from the fact that in reptiles the iirine is secreted from venous blood.STRUCTURE OP THE STOMACH. 405 ramifications of the arteries. The tubes contain a few nucleated cells, but chiefly minute granules. The central part is of a very dark brown colour, and so soft in texture that one might mis- take it for a cavity. It appears to consist almost entirely of a plexus of minute veins.* Of late years, the minute structure and functions of the renal capsules have been much investigated, in consequence of the dis- covery, made by Dr. Addison, of the close relation which exists between disease in these bodies and a brown discoloration of the skin. But their precise function is still unknown. Stomach '^^^ alimentary canal is composed of three coats, dif- AND iNTEs- fering in structure, and connected together by cellular tissue. First, is the serous or peritoneal coat, described at p. 307. Secondly, under the serous is a muscular coat, upon which the chief strength of the canal depends. It consists of two distinct strata of fibres; the outer stratum is longitudinal, the inner circular. This arrangement not only makes the bowel stronger, but regulates its peristaltic action; for the longitudinal fibres, by their contraction, tend to shorten and straighten the tube, while the circular fibres contract upon and propel its contents to greater advantage. Lastly, is the internal or mucous lining. This is the most complicated of the three, for it presents different cha- racters in difi"erent parts, according to the functions which it has to perform. Stomacli "^^^ stomach should be distended with air, that we may see its size and shape. Its size will vary in different in- stances, according to the habits of the individual; and its shape, for want of a better comparison, is likened to the bag of a bag- pipe. The great bulge of the organ on the left of the 03sophagus, is called the oesophageal or the cardiac end; while the smaller part, at which the food passes out, is termed the pyloric end. Just before the pylorus, the stomach bulges into a pouch, called " antrum pylori." It is analogous to that stomach in the rumi- nant in which the runnet is found. Again, we speak of the upper » Consult " A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland," by Simon, London, 1845. D D .3406 STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. margin, or the lesser curve; of the lower margin, or the greater curve ; of the anterior and the posterior surface. Of the muscular coat of the stomach, some fibres take a longi- tudinal, others a circular direction; a few only are oblique. The longitudinal fibres are the most superficial; they are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, and spread out over the stomach. The circular come next: they are well marked about the middle of the stomach, but most abundant at the pylorus where they form a powerful sphincter muscle. The oblique fibres are nearest the mucous membrane : they are scattered over the sides of the stomach. Examined with the high powers of a micro- scope, we find that they all belong to the involuntary or non-striped variety. The same observation applies to the muscular coat of the intestines generalj^y. When the stomach is laid open, observe that the mucous mem- brane is of a pale colour, and gathered into longitudinal folds; these disappear when the stomach is full. If a piece of the membrane be cut away, you see beneath it a distinct stratum of fibro-cellular tissue, sometimes called the " submucous coat." The object of it is to permit the muscular and mucous coats to move freely on each other, and to serve as a bed, in which the blood- vessels ramify minutely before they enter the mucous membrane. This observation applies not only to the mucous membrane of the stomach, but to that of the alimentary canal generally. What is the apparatus for the secretion of the gastric juice ? If a portion of well-injected mucous membrane, taken from the stomach of any mammalian animal, be examined with one of the low powers of a microscope, you observe that the capillary blood-vessels present an hexagonal arrangement, and that they map the surface into little pits, giving it rather a honeycomb appearance. The pits are, on an average, ^Q-th part of an inch in diameter. At the bottom of them you see a number of minute pores. These are the orifices of the gastric tubes. In a perpendicular section, we find that the tubes are arranged in parallel bundles at right angles to the surface, and that they terminate in blind sacculated ends set in the submucous tissue. The entire thickness of the mucousSTRUCTTJKE OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 407 membrane is made up of these tubular glands. It is presumed that, during digestion, they generate a number of cells containing the gastric juice. As fast as formed, the cells pass into the stomach, discharge their contents, and disappear. "While examining the arrangement of the tubes of the stomach, you should observe how richly they are supplied with blood. The arteries -form a stratum of minute inosculations in the submucous tissue, in which the bottoms of the tubes are set: from this stratum the vessels run up between the tubes to the surface of the stomach, where they again inosculate, and form the hexagonal spaces above alluded to. The mucous membrane of the stomach, and also of the interior of the tubes, is lined by a columnar epithelium. It is exceedingly thin and delicate, and can only be seen in the stomach of an animal recently killed. Tlie small intestines, consisting of the duodenum, je- fj^g'^^"^*®^'junum, and ileum, form a tube from sixteen to twenty- eight feet in length, according to the height of the individual. As regards their external character, remark that the duodenum and jejunum are much more vascular than the ileum, and that they may feel much thicker in consequence of the peculiar arrangement of their mucous membrane. The reason of this difference is, that the upper part of the small intestine is more concerned in digestion than the lower. Their peritoneal and muscular coats are the same throughout. The muscular coat con- sists of an outer longitudinal and an inner circular layer. The mucous coat requires especial notice. When the small intestines are cut open from the upper end, the first thing that attracts notice is that the mucous membrane is arranged in close folds, or plaits, technically called "valvuloi conni- ventes." Now these differ from other folds in the alimentary canal, e. g. in the oesophagus and stomach, in that they are not obliterated when the tube is distended. Each fold extends about one-half or two-thirds round the intestine ; but they are not all of equal size. Observe that they do not commence at the pylorus, but immediately below the openings of the biliary and pancreatic ducts, and that D 1) 4STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL IKTESTINES. 408 they are the most largely developed in the duodenum and the upper part of the jejunum. Below this part of the tube they gra- dually decrease in size, and become less closely packed, till they finally disappear near the middle of the ileum. The use of the valvula3 conniventes is to increase the extent of surface for the absorption of the chyle, and also for secretion. Next examine what are called the "villi" of the small intes- tine, and afterwards the different kinds of glands with which it is provided. If a portion of the small intestine be carefully washed and placed in water, the surface of the mucous membrane appears like the soft fur or pile upon velvet. This appearance is produced by the villi. Now these are nothing more than extremely vascular projec- tions of the mucous membrane, about a fourth of a line in length, and so close to each other that a square line contains from forty to fifty of them. Their size, however, and their number, bear a direct ratio to that of the valvule conniventes. Their structure is exceedingly simple. In a well-injected specimen, you will find that each is furnished with an artery which forms a beautiful net- work of inosculations all over it, and then returns its blood by a single vein. Each, too, contains in its interior a lacteal or absorb- ing vessel, which commences, not, as was formerly supposed, by an open mouth, but .by a closed end near the summit of the villus. Lastly, they are covered by a layer of cylindrical epithelium, like the rest of the intestinal mucous membrane. It is generally believed that these cylindrical cells are the agents in the ab- sorption of the chyle, and that they possess the power of selection. There are three kinds of glands* in the small intestines named after their respective discoverers, the glands of Lieberkiihn, Brunn, and Peyer. The first are distributed over the whole tract of the mucous membrane ; the last two over particular parts. The glands of Lieherkuhn^ are minute tubes with blind ends, * A satisfactory examination of the intestinal glands can be made only in specimens quite recent, taken from young persons who have died suddenly, or from a rapidly fatal disease. t J. N. Lieberkiihn, Diss, de fabric, et actione -vdllorum intestin. tenuiiun, 1782.STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINES. 409 very thickly distribxxted over both the small and the large intestines. With a microscope, — for they are invisible to the naked eye,— we see their orifices between the villi, like so many minute dots, as if the sm-face had been pricked with needles. In a vertical section we should observe their depth, and that they are lined by a columnar epithelium. The glands of Brunn * are found only in the duodenum. They are just visible to the naked eye, and may be seen to the best advantage by removing the muscular coat. Their structure exactly resembles the pancreas, on a diminutive scale. The glands of Peyer\ abound most in the ileum. Their chief peculiarity is, that they are arranged in gTOups on that part of the intestine most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. These groups are from one to two inches long, of an oval form. Observe that they increase in size and number as we approach the lower part of the ileum. If a group be examined by dissecting away the muscular coat, you find that the glands are imbedded in the submucous tissue, that they are rather opaque, about three- fourths of a line in diameter, and in shape not unlike a Florence flask. They have no discoverable orifices. When full and ripe they come to the surface, burst, discharge their contents, and die, — for what purpose is not precisely known. These are the glands which are so liable to be ulcerated in fever. But the glands of Peyer are not confined to the ileum. Grlands in all respects like them, except that they are solitary, are found scattered in all parts of the small intestine, also in the large. The principal external characters of the large intestine ^testine pouched or sacculated, and that it has, attached to it, little pendulous portions of fat covered by peritoneum, called "appendices epiploicce." Now the pouches are obviously produced by a shortening of the longitudinal mus- cular fibres, and by their being collected into three bands, about half an inch wide, nearly equidistant from each other. One of * J. C. Brunn, Gland, duoden. seu pancreas secm:darhim, 1715. t Peyer, De glandulis intcstinoriim, 1682. But these glands were described by our countryman, Netemian Grew, in 1681.410 STRUCTURE Or THE LARGE INTESTINES. these bands corresponds with the attached part of the circumference of the bowel; another with the front part; a third with what may be called its concavity. If at any given part the three bands be divided, the pouches immediately disappear. The rectum differs from the rest of the large intestine in that its longitudinal muscular fibres are not collected into bands, but distributed equally over its whole circumference. Moreover, both the longitudinal and circular fibres are of considerable strength, like those of the oesophagus, as one might expect from the parti- cular functions which these parts of the alimentary canal have to perform. Lastly, for one inch and a half, or thereabouts, above the anus, the circular fibres are remarkably developed, and constitute the internal " sphincter anV The mucous njiembrane of the large intestine differs materially from that of the small. It is altogether more simple. There are no valvules conniventes or villi; but there' are plenty of Lieber- kiihn's glands; plenty also of the flask-like solitary glands* like those in the ileum. Peyer well describes these glands as studding the mucous membrane, " tanquam stellse firmamenti." As regards the arrangement of the blood-vessels, it* deserves to be remarked that a piece of well-injected mucous membrane from the large intestine presents the same hexagonal arrangement on the surface as that of the stomach. That the mucous membrane of the large bowel may be temporarily used as a substitute for the stomach, is proved by the fact of persons having been nourished for six weeks or more, solely by injections. At the junction of the small with the large intestine valve ^'^^^ the mucous membrane is folded so as to form a valve: but it is not a perfect one, as is proved by pouring water into the large intestine, or by the occasional vomiting of injections. The arrangement of the valve is best examined in a dried prepara- tion. You observe that the opening is a transverse fissure like a button-hole; and that the two flaps are arranged like an upper * The solitary glands are more abundant in tlie caecum and in tlie appendix vemu- formis than in any other part of the alimentary caniil.411 STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINES. and a lower eyelid. The flaps of the valve consist of mucous membrane and the circular fibres of the ileum. The longitudinal fibres of the ileum are continued du-ectly on to the caecum: if these be divided, the ileum can be drawn out and the valve disappears. SECTIOK THEOTJGH THE JUNCTION OF THE XAEGB AND SATATT. INTESTINE TO SHO"W THE ILIO-CCECAI, VALVE. In many subjects we observe that transverse or rectum™ oblique folds of the mucous membrane project into the rectum. We cannot see them to advantage unless the bowel be hardened by alcohol in its natural position. Three, more prominent than the rest, and half an inch, or thereabouts, in width, were first pointed out by Mr. Houston.* One projects from the upper part of the rectum, opposite the prostate gland; another is situated higher up, on the side of the bowel; while the third is still higher. When thickened or ulcerated, these folds are apt to occasion great pain and obstruction in defsecation. 1. Ileum. 2. CiECum or caput coli. 3. Appendix vermiformis. * Dublin Hospital Eeports, vol. v.412 THE DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. An incision should be made along the groin from the spine of the ilium to that of the pubes; another, from the middle of the first, perpendicularly downwards for about six inches. Eeflecting the skin, we expose the sub-cutaneous adi- fascia^'^^'^^ pose ^.nd connective tissue, called the " superficial fascia." Its thickness varies accoj-ding to the condition of the body. It is described as being divisible into layers. The truth is, that any one who is dexterous with the scalpel can make as many layers as he pleases. Your object must be to have a clear view of the superficial absorbent glands and the cutaneous vessels which are imbedded in this fascia, and ramify in three directions. One ascends over the surface of the abdomen, another towards the pubes, a third towards the ilium; they are named the superficial epigastric, the superficial pudic, and the superficial circumfiexa ilii arteries (fig. 91). All three come from the femoral. Each is accompanied by one, sometimes by two veins, which empty them- selves, either directly into the femoral vein, or into the great cutaneous vein of the thigh, called the "saphena." Femoral These are easily recognised, by their reddish-brown absorbent colour. Most of them are situated along the outer side glands. ^j^g saphena. They vary in number, and are of an oval form, with the long axis vertical. In a well-injected sub- ject we observe how freely they are supplied with blood-vessels; hence the rapidity with which they enlarge when inflamed. They transmit the absorbents from nearly all parts of the lower ex- tremity. They also receive some of the absorbents from the scrotum. This explains why, in some cases of chimney-sweeper'sDISSECTION or THE GROIN. 413 cancer of the scroturtij the femoral, as well as the inguinal glands, become enlarged. The absorbent vessels which pass in and out of the glands escape observation, unless specially sought after. In dropsical bodies they become distended, and appear like transparent tubes. They Fig. 91. StrPEEFICIAI/ VESSELS AITD GIAJTDS OF THE GEODT. SAPHENOUS OPENING mTH THE CJEIBEEFORM FASCIA. 1. Saphenoua opening of the fascia lata. 5. Superficial pudic a. 2. Saphena vein. 6. External abdominal ring. 3. Superficial epigastric a. 7. Pascia lata of the thigh. 4. Superficial circumflexa ilii a. all pass through the femoral ring into the abdomen, and eventually empty themselves into the thoracic duct. The glands mentioned in the preceding paragraph are all super-DISSECTION 01? THE GEOIN. 414 ficial. There are others more deeply seated close to the great vessels of the thigh: these are much smaller, and sometimes cannot be found. Eespecting the superjicial epigastric, pudic*, and cireumflexa ilii arteries, we have only to observe that their particular ramifica- tions vary in each case, though their general distribution is nearly the same in all. In a surgical point of view they are of importance, since they are exposed to injury in opening abscesses in these parts. The pudic is liable to be cut in the operation for femoral hernia; also in the operation for phimosis, since it runs along the penis to supply the prepuce. Arising, as they all do, directly from so large an artery as the femoral, we cannot wonder if they sometimes bleed profusely; for it is an admitted fact, that when even a small branch, coming directly from a principal artery, is divided near its origin, it will sometimes pour out as much blood as if an opening were punched out of the trunk as large as the area of the divided branch. I This is the chief subcutanequs vein of the lower limb. Saphena roots, arising on the inner side of the foot, unite into a sinde trunk, which ascends over the inner ankle, along the inner side of the leg and knee, and then along the mner and front part of the thigh, where you see it passing through an opening in the " fascia lata " to join the femoral vein immediately below the crural arch (fig. 91). In this remarkably long course it receives several tributary veins some of which are often as large as itself; and, just before its termination, it is joined by the superficial veins of the groin already alluded' to. Like all subcu- taneous veins, it is provided at intervals with valves to support the column of the blood; when these, from any cause, become ineflScient, the veins become enlarged and varicose. * The pudic iDranch referred to in the text is quite superficial. There is another, which runs for some distance beneath the muscular fascia covei-ing the pectmeus, and supplies that muscle and the scrotum or the labium pudendi. t Mr. Liston had occasion to tie the external iliac arteiy for a supposed injury (by a pistol-ball) to the femoral. It was discovered, after the death of the patient, that the baU had injui-ed only one of the superficial branches of the femoral, aboutan mch from its origin. See his paper in the Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxix. 1846.415 DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. Postponing, for the present, the general muscular fascia of the thigh, called "fascia lata," let us now examine the opening in it which transmits the saphena vein. Immediately below the crural arch is an opening in the openfiig'ia muscular fascia of the thigh, which, as it gives passage 1 ita^'^^"^ to the saphena Vein, is appropriately called " saphenous." Now since this opening is one of the parts concerned in the anatomy of femoral hernia, the mode in which it is formed, its shape, dimensions, borders,—in short, everything connected with it, — is described by anatomical writers with very minute precision. He who dissects these parts for the first time can hardly expect to make them out satisfactorily, still less to make his dissection tally with the description usually given. Understand that the edge of the saphenous opening does not naturally exist as a defined margin, until the fascia which covers the opening and is blended with the margin has been removed. The term " cribriform " has been given to this fascia, because it is riddled with holes for the passage of the. superficial vessels and absorbents: of this we will say more anon. At present let us confine our attention to the saphenous opening itself. Supposing the cribriform fascia to have been removed so as to display the saphenous opening in its simplest form, the opening would appear as represented in fig. 92. We observe that it is situated just below the- crural arch, not far from the pubes; that it is oval with the long axis vertical, and about one and a half or two inches long. In respect to its borders, we find that on the inner or pubic side it is not at all defined, for here the muscular fascia ascends under the femoral vessels, and is continuous with the iliac fascia of the pelvis.* But the outer or iliac border is defined clearly enough. This lies in front of the femoral vessels, and is crescent-shaped, with the concavity towards the pubes. The lower horn of the crescent curves under the saphena vein, and is lost in the fascia on the inner side of the * On the iimer side of the fo.norul veas.-ls the pubic portion of the ftaseia is attached to the linea ilio-pectiiiea.DISSECTION OF THE GROIN. 416 opening. The upper liorn* arches over the femoral vein, and» is continued uninterruptedly into " Grimbernat's ligament," or into that part of the crural arch which is inserted into the linea ilio- pectinea. The upper horn deserves especial attention, because it Fig. 92, 1. Crural Arch. 2. Saphenous opening of the fascia lata. 3. Saphena rein. 4. Femoral vein. f 5. Gimbernat's ligament. G. External ring. 7. Position of the internal ring. DIAGEAM OP THE FEMOEAl EtNG. (The arrow is introduced iiito the femoral ring.) forms the upper boundary of the aperture through which a femoral hernia takes place; and, having a great deal to do with the constriction of the ruptiu-e, must be divided for its relief. This may be easily ascertained by introducing the little finger under the crural arch, on the inner side of the femoral vein,—in other words into the femoral ring (see the arrow in the diagi-am). See how much the upper horn of the crescent would girt the neck of a hernia, and that its tension is greatly influenced by the position of the limb; for if the thigh be bent and brought over to the other side, the tension of all the parts concerned * This upper horn is sometimes caUed " Key's ligament," after the surgeon who first drew attention to it: " Observations in Surgery," by "W. Hey, F.R.S. London, 1810,417 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. is materially lessened. This explains the position in which a surgeon places the leg- before he attempts to reduce a rupture.* To return to the cribriform fascia. This is simply a fesoia^°™ thin covering over the saphenous opening. It is pro- longed from the outer edge of the opening over the sheath of the femoral vessels, and adheres on the inner side to the fascia lata, over the pectineus muscle. As before observed, it is riddled with holes for the passage of the superficial vessels and absorbents of the groin. Some writers describe this fascia as only a portion of the " superficial fascia; " but I think the more correct view is to consider it as a thin prolongation of the fascia lata itself across the opening. Its chief surgical importance is derived from the fact that it forms one of the coverings of a femoral hernia. ANATOMY OF THE PAETS CONCEENED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. The anatomy of the parts concerned in femoral hernia cannot be thoroughly understood without the assistance of special dissections ; indeed, one cannot reasonably expect to make oneself master of the subject, if it be taken in hand merely as something to be in- vestigated by the way in the dissection of the thigh. The following demonstration, therefore, takes for granted that we have the oppor- tunity of seeing the parts, not only on their femoral, but also on their abdominal side. We propose to treat the different parts of the subject in the fol- lowing order: — a. The formation of the crural arch. b. The arrangement of the parts which pass under the arch. c. The femoral aperture or ring. * We must always bear in mind, tliat tbougli tlie cniral arch and the adjacent fascije have received particular names, they are not, on that account, distinct and separate but aU are intimately connected, and portions merely of one continuous expansion' Thus all the parts are kept in a condition of mutual tension, which depends very much on the position of the thigh. ■ ^ ^^^u^ E EPAUTS CONCEliNED IN FliMOltAL IlKUNIA. 418 d. The so-called sheatli of the vessels. e. The practical application of the subject. The lower border of the aponeurosis of the external Crural arch. ^-^Yique muscle extends from the spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes, and forms, over the bony excavation beneath, what is called the " crural arch." (It is marked by the dark line in fig. 93.) A glance at the relative position of its attachments is sufficient to show that the direction of the arch is oblique; besides which, in consequence of its intimate connection with the muscular fascia of the thigh, the line of the arch describes a gentle curve with the convexity downwards. The pubic insertion of the arch is a point which we must thoroughly understand. Not only is the arch attached to the spine of the pubes, but also for some distance along the linea ilio-pectinea (fig. 93). This additional attachment, called after its discoverer, Gimbernafs ligament*, is of material importance, for it is the seat of the stricture in hernia. The best view of Grimbernat's ligament is obtained Gimbemat's £j.q^ within the abdomen. All that is necessary is to ligament. ^.^^^^g peritoneum. You then see that it is triangular, with the apex at the pubes; that the base, directed outwards, is a little curved. Its breadth is from three-quarters of an inch to one inch; but it varies in- different subjects, and is always broader in the male than in the female; this is one among many reasons why femoral hernia is less frequent in the male. Put your finger into the femoral ring and make yourself familiar with the sharp and wiry feel of this ligament: observe, especially, that, as the body lies on the table, the plane of the Hgament is perpendicular, and therefore that it recedes from the surface. The crural arch transmits from the abdomen into rfthef'StT* the thigh (proceeding in order from the outer side) wMclipaBs the following objects, shown in fig. 93: 1. The ex- iindertheajcli. ^^^^^^ cutaueous nerve; 2. The iliacus and psoas muscles, with the anterior crural nerve between them; 3. The femoral artery and vein with the crural branch of the genito-crural * Don Antonio de aimbernat was a Spanish surgeon, who published, in 1793, " A New Method of Operating for the Femoral Hernia," Madrid.PARTS CONCEKNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 419 E E 2 nerve. These muscles and vessels completely fill up all that part of the arch which belongs to them. Still there is, on the inner side of the vein, a comparatively vacant space left for the passage External cutaneous n. . Fig. 93. Iliacus. Anterior crural n. . Psoas. ..... Crural arch. External ring. Femoral ring. Femoral vein and artery. POSITION OF PAETS UNDEE THE CEIIBAl AECH (tEETICAI SECTION). of the absorbents; this is called the femoral aperture or ring. The muscles are separated from the vessels by a strong vertical fibrous partition passing from the arch to the bone, which is nothing more than a continuation of the sheath of the psoas. The aa-tery, too, is separated from the vein hj^ a similar, although a much weaker partition, and there is a third'close to the inner side of the vein. These three partitions not only keep all the parts in their right place, but confine the arch down to the bone, and prevent its being uplifted by any protrusion between it and the muscles and vessels. This, coupled with the close attachment of the iliac fascia to the crural arch, explains why a femoral hernia cannot take place in any other situation than on the inner side of the femoral vein.* * If the partitions from any cause yield, or tecome slack, tlien a rupture may de- ofThe'^tery* °' '^^''"^'^^ ^^"^ °^ side420 PARTS CONCERNED IN TEMORAL HERNIA. The hollow under the crural arch is completely occu- Femoral pjg^ except for a small space on the inner side of the ring. jr X r vein. This weak part is called the " femoral ring," through this a femoral hernia protrudes. Now in order to form a correct idea of the size of this opening, you should remove the peritoneum, and introduce the end of the little finger into it from the abdomen. This can be done without much force. You find that the finger is girt pretty tightly on all sides: in front, is the crural arch ; behind, is the bone ; on the outer side, is the femoral vein; on the inner side, is the thin wiry edge of Grimbernat's liga- ment. Such are the boundaries of the gap which the finger makes. Such are the boundaries of the femoral ring. Eemember, how- ever, that, in the undisturbed condition of the parts, there is no gap ; there is only a weak place here, which, when a hernia escapes through it, feels very much like a ring; hence the name " femoral ring. * The femoral ring is surrounded on all sides by unyielding struc- tures. This accounts for the little benefit afforded by the warm bath in cases of strangulation. Mr. LawTence says he never saw a strangulated femoral hernia where the warm bath was of any avail. „, ^ The femoral vessels do not descend naked beneath the Sheath of i i • i the femoral crural arch, but come down enclosed m a membranous vessels. gheath. This sheath appears to be derived immediately from the arch itself, but it is not so: it is a continuation of the fascia transversalis of the abdomen. Now this continuation, uniting with the muscular fascia behind the femoral vessels, forms a funnel, with the wide part uppermost, into which the femoral vessels enter. This is what is meant by the funnel-shaped sheath of the femoral vessels. To examine this sheath satisfactorily, it is necessary to reflect from its attachment to the crural arch, the upper horn of the sa- * The femoral ring is naturally occiipied by a Uttle fat and ceUular membrane, by absorbent vessels, and often by a small absorbent gland. But have never met with anything deserving the name of a " diaphragm" or membranous septum, such as is described by Cloquet as the " septum crurale."PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 421 phenous openirigj as shown in fig. 94. By this proceeding, you see the fascia transversalis coming down over the femoral vessels, and forming the front part of their sheath. The hind part of the sheath, remember, is formed by the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which runs up behind the vessels to join the fascia iliaca. If asked how low the sheath descends, I should say that, about the lower horn of the saphenous opening, it is gradually lost upon the proper investment of the femoral vessels. Fig. 94. 1,1. Fascia transver- salis. 2. Internal ring. 3, Crural arch re- flected. 4. Sheath of the fe- moral vessels. 5. Saphena vein. DIAGBAM OF THE SHEATH OF THE FEMORAL VESSELS. Examine for yourselves the texture and the degree of resistance of the sheath by introducing the finger into it from within the abdomen. Try to make an artificial hernia. You will find the sheath offers considerable resistance. If violence be used, the sheath will either give way, like an elastic membrane, or the finger will force a passage through one of the small openings which exist in the sheath for the transmission of the femoral absorbents. Practically, the sheath is important for many reasons A femoral hernia descends inside it. 2. It forms, therefore^ one of E E 3422 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMOKAL HERNIA. the coverings {fascia propria) of the hernia. 3. It contains in its substance bands of fibres running in the same direction as the crural arch, but quite independent of it, as shown in fig. 94 ; these bands lie over the neck of the sac, and are often the seat of the stricture; it is therefore necessary to divide them before the in- testine can be returned. Practical ap- From what has been said, you ought now to under- plication of stand —1, at what point a femoral hernia escapes from tlie subject. ^-^^ abdomen; 2, the course which it takes, and its relations to the surrounding parts ; .3, the proper mode of attempt- ing the reduction; 4, the structure and arrangement of its coverings ; and lastly, where the stricture will probably be situated. The hernia escapes from the abdomen through the femoral ring, —that is, under the weak part of the crural arch, between the femoral vein and Grimbernat's ligament. Here is the mouth of the hernial sac, or that part of it which communicates with the abdomen. It descends for a short distance nearly perpendicularly, and projects as a small tumour in front of the pectineus muscle. Its progress downwards, however, is soon arrested by the very close adhesion of the subcutaneous structures to the lower margin of the saphenous opening. Consequently, if the hernia in- crease in size, it must rise over the crural arch, where the subcu- taneous tissue offers less resistance; and the bulk of the hernia extends outwards towards the ilium, assuming more or less of an oblong form, with the long axis parallel to the crural arch. Since, then, the body of the hernia forms a very acute angle with the neck, the right mode of attempting its reduction is, to make the hernia retrace its steps, — that is, to draw it first down from the o-roin, and then to make pressure on it backwards in the direction of the femoral ring. Now what are its coverings ? The hernia protrudes before it the peritoneum, technically called the hernial sac* It next pushes before it the sheath of the femoral vessels, which forms an invest- » In some cases the fascia propria so mncli resembles the hernial sac, that it is not easy to distinguish between them. Generally speaking they are sepaxated by a small quantity of fat.423 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. E E 4 ment called the "fascia propria." In front of this is the cribri- form fascia. Lastly, there is the subcutaneous tissue and skin. The seat of stricture is at the femoral ring, and the position of the neighbouring blood-vessels indicates that the proper direction in which to divide the stricture is, either directly inwards, through Grimbernat's ligament, as recommended by Mr. Lawrence, or up- wards through Hey's ligament, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper. There is no risk of wounding an artery, supposing the vessels to take their ordinary course. But it occasionally happens (as observed p. 362), that the obtiirator artery runs round the inner side of the femoral ring; in such a case, the neck of the sac would be en- circled by a large blood-vessel.* From the examination of two hundred bodies, I conclude that the chances are about seventy to one against this unfavourable distribution. But the possibility of it has given rise to this rule in practice,—not to cut deeply in any one place through the strictiure but rather to notch it in several. By this proceeding we are much less likely to wound the abnormal artery, because it does not ran at the base of Grimbernat's ligament, but about a line and a half from the margin of it. Such is a brief outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in a femoral hernia. The normal anatomy in each case being nearly the same, one might suppose that all operations for the relief of this kind of hernia would be straightforward and pretty much alike ; but this is very far from being the case ; indeed, most experienced surgeons will agree that they never take the knife in hand without the expectation of meeting some peculiarity. To proceed with the dissection, the incision should be prolonged down the thigh, over the knee, to the tubercle of the tibia. The skin should be reflected, so that the subcutaneous tissue over the whole front of the thigh be fairly exposed; our present object being to examine the cutaneous veins and nerves. * The museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double fe- moral hernia in the male, with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the four hernice the obtiu-ator rims on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. See Prep. 55, 69, Series 17.424 FRONT OF THE THIGH. Cutaneous '^^^ course of tlie saphena vein, its tributary branches, veins and and the confluence of veins at the saphenous opening, ■ have been described at p. 414. I would merely observe here, that all the larger cutaneous veins of the thigh, and the same obtains of the leg generally, are so situated as to be out of the way of harm. Eespecting the cutaneous nerves, a general account is sufficient, since they are not exactly alike in any two subjects. They are usually divided, according to their situation, into external, middle, and internal. All, directly or indirectly, proceed from the lumbar plexus, and may be seen coming through the muscular fascia. a. The external cutaneous nerve is a distinct branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 332). It enters the thigh beneath the crural arch, near the anterior spine of the ilium, and can be traced down the outer side of tke thigh to the knee, giving off numerous branches, which subdivide to supply the skin. b. The middle cutaneous nerves, two or more in number, are derived from the anterior crural (which itself is a branch of the lumbar plexus). They perforate the sartorius four or five inches below the crural arch, and descend along the front of the thigh to the knee, distributing branches on either side (p. 427). c. The internal cutaneous nerves, two or more, also branches of the anterior crural, perforate the fascia, one about the middle, another about the lower third of the thigh, and supply the skin on the inner side.* By careful dissection, you will find that these cutaneous nerves communicate here and there with each other, especially over the patella.f . , , Eemove the subcutaneous structure to examine the Pascia lata r -l • i mi. or muscular muscular fascia, or "fascia lata" of the thigh. The fascia. purpose of this fascia is to clothe the muscles of the thigh collectively, and to form separate sheaths for each; so that * Besides these, there is the little eniral branch of the'genito-cmral nerre (p. 332), which perforates the fascia about two inches below the cinu-al arch. This is seldom found except by an experienced dissector. t Some authors speak of a " patellar plexus " of jiervea.425 FRONT OF THE THIGH. it not only packs them together, but maintains each in its proper position. A knowledge of these sheaths is practically important, because they interfere with the progress of deep-seated matter towards the surface, and cause it to biUTOW in this or that direction according to the part in which it forms. The fascia is not of equal strength all round the thigh. As one Fig. 95. might expect, it is strongest in the most exposed parts; e. g. it is comparatively thin and trans- parent on the inner side, but exceedingly thick and strong all down the outer side : here, indeed, it has the appearance of a dense expanded tendon, strapping down the vastus externus muscle ; and it certainly performs the office of a tendon, for we shall presently see that it gives insertion to two powerful muscles,—namely the tensor fasciae femoris, and the glutaeus maximus (fig. 95). But what are its attachments ? In a general way, it may be said that it is attached to the margin of the bones which constitute the frame- work of the lower extremity. Beginning from above, we could, if the parts were exposed, trace its attachment along the crest of the ilium, thence along the crural arch to the body of the pubes, and so on down the rami of the pubes and ischium. Proceeding down the thigh, we should see that it penetrates, on either side of the limb, to the linea aspera, forming what are called the " intermuscular septa," which separate the extensor from the flexor muscles. Below we trace it all round the knee joint, where it is particularly strong, especially on the outer side, and find that it is attached to the head of the tibia and the fibula. Here let us leave it for the present. The ^lext stage of the dissection consists in removing the muscular fascia from the front of the thigh, without disturbing the muscles from their relative position. The mass of muscles on the inner FASCIA. ON THE OUT- SIDE OF THE THIGH. 1. Tensor fascice femoris. 2. Glutfeus maximus. 3. Lower fibres of ditto. 4. Fascia lata.scaiipa's triangle. 426 side of the thigh consists of the adductors; that in the middle,- of the extensors; the long muscle which crosses ohliquely over the front is the sartorius. This we will take first, being a sort of land-mark to the rest. „ ^ . This muscle arises from the anterior superior spine of Sartomis. .-i .i. , the ilmm and the ridge below. It passes obliquely, like a strap, over the front of the thigh towards the inner side, and then descends almost perpendicularly on the inner side of the knee, where it terminates in a tendon which expands and is in- serted into the inner and front part of the tibia just below the tubercle. The tendon appears all the wider on account of its broad connection with the fascia of the leg. A large bursa* is interposed between the tendon and the internal lateral ligament. The chief action of the muscle is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh. It also crosses one leg over the other, as tailors are in the habit of doing when sitting at work.f The sartorius forms with the adductor longus the two ^^tfJitrl sides of a triangle, which has the crural arch for its base. This triangle is called " Scarpa's," in compliment to the anatomist who fii'st tied the femoral artery in it, for popliteal aneu- rism. You should carefully display the contents of this important surgical space, and study well their relative position. I have attempted to give some idea of them in fig. 96. It contains all the parts which come under the crural arch, namely: the external cutaneous nerve; the psoas and iliacus; the anterior crural nerve and its divisions, especially the long saphenous; the femoral artery with its great branch " the profunda," X which runs down behind it and gives off the "internal" and "external circumflex;" the femoral vein, joined by the profunda vein and internal saphena ; the pec- tineus muscle. * In persons, females especially, who are in the habit of riding, this bursa some- times becomes enlarged. t Hence the name given to it by SpigeHus (De corporis hum. fabric), "Quern ego sartorium musculum Tocare soleo, quod sartores eo maximfe utuntur, dum crus cruri inter consuendum impouunt." I In Kg. 96, " the profunda" is drawn more on the outside of the femoral than it is in nature; the internal circumflex cannot be seen because it sinks down between the pectineus and psoas.427 Scarpa's triangle. The most important practical point about the muscle is, that it overlaps the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh; and the inner border of the muscle is the guide to the vessel in the situa- tion where it is usually tied for a pophteal aneurism. Fig. 96. DIAGEAM OF SCAEPA's TEIANGLE. What is the exact spot at which the sartorius reaches the femoral artery ? I have examined many bodies in reference to this point and find that there is no certainty about it. The distance from the crural arch at which the artery and the muscle meet, varies from one and a half to four and a half inches. The best way to find the inner border of the sartorius during life is to make the patient put the muscle into action. Gracilis Passing in the next place to the adductors on the inner side of the thigh, we should examine another long flat muscle, called the gracilis. To dissect it properly, it should beFRONT or THE THIGH. 428 put on the stretch by separating one thigh from the other. It arises by a broad ribbon-like tendon from the pubes close to the symphysis, and from the border of the pubic arch nearly as low as the tuber ischii. The muscle descends perpendicularly on the inner side of the thigh, and terminates on a tendon which spreads out and is inserted into the inner side of the tibia below the tubercle ; in fact, just like the sartorius, only below it, so that the one overlaps the other. Both tendons play over the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and there is a bursa common to both. This muscle assists in fixing the pelvis, and in adducting the thigh, it also helps to bend the knee. A strong group of muscles extends along the inner ^soL^r ^^^^ °f ■t^^^' fro^ pelvis to the femur. Their chief action is to co-operate in balancing the pelvis steadily on tAe thigh,—as, for instance, in standing on one leg; or, if the fixed point be reversed, they can draw the thighs together —for example in riding. Physiologically, they might be consi- dered as one, for they are supplied by the same nerve,—namely the obturator ; but anatomically they are divided into three—the adductor longus, brevis, and magnus. There is also the " pecti- neus." Since they lie one above the other, you should reflect them from their origin and examine each in succession, taking care not to divide the branches of the obturator nerve which supply them. This mu-scle arises by a tendon from the front of the longus*°^ pubes just below its spine, and, gradually becoming- broader, is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera of the femur. It forms with the sartorius a triangular space, in which are contained the several objects described (p. 426). This muscle lies close to, and on the same plane with the adductor longus (p. 426). It arises from the tri- angular surface of the pubes in front of the linea ilio-pectinea, and is inserted into the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera. The adductor longus and pectineus must now be reflected from their origins. Under the pectineus you will see the " obtm-atorFRONT OF THE THIGPI. 429 nerve," which supplies all the adductors, except the pectin eus, which is supplied by the anterior crural. It leaves the pelvis through the upper part of the obturator foramen, and soon divides into an anterior and posterior branch; the anterior runs in front of the adductor brevis and supplies it, as well as the adductor longus and the gracilis; the posterior runs behind the adductor brevis, and supplies the obturator externus and the adductor magnus. This muscle arises from the front surface of the pubes Adductor j^gg^p ^^le symphysis, widens as it descends, and is in- brevis. j r j ' ^ ' serted into the upper third of the linea aspera. By reflecting it from its origin we expose the following: *— This muscle arises from the lower two-thirds of the Adductor T,\\b\G arch and from the tuberosity of the ischium. Its magnus. ^ fibres spread out, and are inserted, behind the other adductors, into the whole length of the linea aspera; also into the ridge leading from it to the inner condyle. Observe that all the adductor muscles are inserted into the femur by flat tendons which are more or less connected with each other. About the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, the femoral artery passes through an oval opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. As these muscles have been fully described in niacTXnL''^' dissection of the abdomen (p. 324), it is unnecessary to repeat the description here. This muscle is situated at the upper and outer part SmorTs.^''''''' of the thigh. It arises from the crest of the ilium, close to the anterior spine, descends with a slight inclination backwards, and is inserted between two layers of the strong aponeurosis which is generally described as part of the fascia lata (p. 425). Its chief -use is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh, and also to rotate the thigh inwards: in this last respect it co-operates with the anterior fibres of the glutseus medius, with * Beneath the adductor brevis, and just above the upper border of the adductor magnus, is seen the obturator externus. But we reserve the description of this muscle till the dissection of the external rotators of the tliigh (p. 460).430 FRONT OF THE THIGH. whicli it is almost inseparably connected. Any one may convince himself of this by placing the hand on the hip and rotating the thigh inwards. There are no other muscles to do it, and both are supplied by the same nerve,—namely the superior glutaeal. In order to form an adequate idea of the strength, extent, and connections of the aponeurosis on the outer side of the thigh, we ought to separate it from the vastus externus muscle upon which it lies. There is no diflSculty in doing so, for it is united to the . muscle by an abundance of loose cellular tissue.* With a little perseverance you can trace the aponeurosis to the linea aspera, the head of the tibia and the fibula. See how completely it protects the outer side of the knee-joint. The powerful muscles situated between the tensor MUSCLES.^ fasQise on the outer, and the sartorius on the inner side, are extensors of the leg: all are supplied by branches of the anterior ci'ural nerve. One of them—the "rectus" — arises from the pelvis ; the other — the " triceps " — arises from the shaft of the thigh bone by three portions, called the cruraeus, the vastus externus, and internus. This muscle arises from the pelvis by two strong Eeetus. tendons, which soon unite; one from the inferior spine of the ilium, the other from the rough surface of the ilium, just above the acetabulum. To see them, dissect between the sartorius and the tensor fasciae, and in doing so be careful not to injure the branches of the external circumflex artery. The muscle descends perpendicularly down the front of the thigh, and is inserted into the common extensor tendon. Its structure is very beautiful. A tendon runs down the centre, and the muscular fibres are implanted on either side of it, lik6 the vane on the shaft of a feather. This mass of muscle surrounds the greater part of tilT ^^^"^^' ^^^ei'efoi'e the whole extent of it cannot be seen without completely dissecting the thigh. It consists of an outer, middle, and inner portion, called respectively * When tliia tissue becomes the seat of suppuration, tlie matter is apt to extend aU dovn the outside of the thigh, not heing able to make its way to the surface by reason of the dense fascia.FRONT OF THE THIGH. 431 the vastus externus, tlie crura3us, and the vastus internus. The vastus externus arises by a very strong aponeurosis from the outer side of the base of the great trochanter, and from the outer lip of the linea aspera nearly down to the external condyle. The crurceus arises from the upper three-fourths of the front surface of the shaft. The vastus internus arises from the upper two-thirds of the inner surface of the shaft, and also from the inner lip of the linea aspera. Common "^^^ tendon of the rectus, gradually expanding, becomes extensor connected on its under surface with the tendon of the crurseus *, and on either side with that of the vasti, and is firmly fixed into the upper part and sides of the patella. From this bone the common extensor tendon, under the name of " liga- onentum patellce" descends over the front of the knee-joint, and is inserted into the tubercle of the tibia. But besides this, the lower fibres of the vasti terminate on a sheet-like tendon, which runs wide of the patella on either side, and is directly inserted into the sides of the head of the tibia, so that the knee is completely pro- tected all round. The patella is a great sesamoid bone, interposed to facilitate the play of the tendon over the condyles of the femur; it not only materially protects the joint, hnt adds to the power of the extensor muscles, by increasing the angle at which the tendon is inserted into the tibia. Action of extensor muscles of the thigh are among the the extensor most powerful in the body. A great power to extend the knee is one of the essential conditions of the erect attitude. Without it, how could we rise from the sitting to the upright position ? When erect, how could we walk, run, or spring without it ? The rectus, by taking origin from the pelvis, gains a * A few of the deeper fibres of the crurseus are inserted into the fold of the sjnovial membrane of the knee joint which rises above the patella. These are described as a distinct muscle, under the name of the " sub-crurcsiis." Theii- use is to raise the synovial membrane, so that it may not be injured by the play of the patella. Since the triceps is connected to the lower part of the shaft of the femur only by loose cel- lular tissue, there is nothing to prevent the distension of the synovial membrane, in cases of inflammation, to the extent of several inches above the patella.FRONT OF THE THIGH. 432 double advantage; for it acts upon two joints simultaneously, "bending the thigh while it extends the knee, as when we advance the leg in walking: it also contributes to balance the pelvis on the head of the thigh bone, and thus prevents the body from falling backwards. We cannot have a better proof of the collective power of the extensor muscles than when the patella is broken across by their contraction; an injury which sometimes happens when a man slipping backwards makes a violent effort to recover his balance. To facilitate the play of the extensor tendon there are two bursse. One is placed between the ligamentum patellse and the tubercle of the tibia, the other between the crurasus and the lower part of the femur. This last is of very considerable size. In early life it is, as a rule, distinct from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; but after a few years of friction we generally find a wide commu- nication between them. We must here say a few words respecting the struc- ttiTttella ^^"^^^ patella. The skin over it is e pa e a. exceedingly loose, and in the subcutaneous tissue is a bursa of considerable size. Since this bursa is apt to enlarge and inflame in females who are in the habit of kneeling, it is generally called "the housemaid's bursa." Observe that the biirsa is not seated exactly on the top of the patella, but that it extends some way down the ligamentum patellse; indeed, in some cases it is entirely confined to this ligament. This quite corresponds with the position of the tumor which the bursa occasions when enlarged. Generally speaking, in subjects brought for dissection, the wall of the bursa is more or less thickened, and its interior intersected by numerous fibrous cords, which are remnants of the original cellular structure altered by long-continued friction. Again, the wall,of the bursa does not always form a complete sac; sometimes there is a wide opening in it; this explains the rapidity with which inflammation, in some cases, extends from the bursa into the sur- rounding cellular tissue. Below the bursa is a layer of fascia lata, and under this is a beautiful network of arteries. The immediate covering of the bone, or what may be called its periosteum, is a strong expansionFRONT OF THE THIGH. 433 derived from the extensor tendon. This is practically interesting for the following reason : in ordinary fractures of the patella from muscular action the tendinous expansion over it is torn also; the ends of the bone gape widely, and never unite except by ligament. But in fractures from direct mechanical violence, the tendinous expansion, being entire, maintains the fragments in apposition, so that there is commonly a bony union. The femoral artery is a continuation of the external Course ANB -r. • i EELATioNs OF liiac. rassiug boueath the crural arch at a point about THE FEMORAL midway between the spine of the ilium and the ARTERY. ^ symphysis pubis, it descends nearly perpendicularly along the front and inner side of the thigh. At the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, it goes through an opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, and, entering the ham, takes the name of " popliteal." A line drawn from the point specified of the crural arch to the tubercle of the internal condyle would pretty nearly indicate the course of the artery. Its distance from the surface increases as it descends. In the next place, as to the muscles over which it lies. Imme- diately under, and for a short distance below the crural arch, it is supported by the inner border of the psoas; lower down it runs in front of the pectineus; still lower, in front of the adductor longus. In the upper third of the thigh the artery is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the muscular fascia. About the middle third it is more deeply seated, and is covered by the sar- torius: here, being situated among powerful muscles, it is pro- tected from pressure by a tendinous canal, which we shall presently examine. At the crural arch the femoral vein is on the inner "side of the artery, but as the vein descends it gradually passes behind the artery. Both lie close together, and are enclosed in a common sheath. The anterior crural nerve passes beneath the crural arch about ith of an inch on the outer side of the artery, and soon divides into branches, some of which are cutaneous, but the greater p F434 FRONT OF THE THIGH. number supply the extensor muscles. Those branches which more directly concern the artery, and are liable to be injured in the operation of tying it, are as follow: —1. The long saphenous. This descends close to the outer side of the artery, and enters the tendinous sheath with it, in the middle third of the thigh (p. 427). Here the nerve crosses over to the inner side of the artery, and leaves it just before it becomes popliteal. The nerve then runs in company with the anastomotica magna artery to the inner side of the knee, where we find it nearly superficial between the gracilis and the sartorius. Finally, joining the saphena vein, it descends with it to the inner side of the foot. 2. Besides the long saphenous, there are one or two internal cutaneous branches, which cross over the sheath of the artery just where the sartorius begins to overlap it, and therefore in the situation where it is usually tied. They lie so close to the sheath that they would run great risk of being injured unless specially looked after (p. 427). Both * supply the skin on the inner side of the thigh. You are already aware that in the middle third of Hunter's canal. ^^.^^ femoral artery is contamed in a ten- dinous canal f under the sartorius, called " Hunter's canal." This canal at its upper part is rather indistinct; but it gradually becomes stronger towards the opening in the tendon of the triceps. Its boun- daries are formed by the tendons of the muscles between which the artery runs. On the inner side are the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus ; on the outer side is the tendon of the vastus internus; in front the canal is completed by an aponeurotic ex- pansion thrown obliquely across from the adductors to the vastus internus, as shown in the annexed diagram. In a horizontal section the canal would appear triangular. The adaptation of this shape to the exigencies of the case is manifest when we reflect that the * One of these nerves generaUy joins a branch of the obturator near the lowr border of the tendon of the adductor magnus. t CaUed " Hunter's canal," because it was in this pai-t of its coursp that John Hunter first tied the femoral artery for aneurism of the popliteal, in St. George's Hos- pital, A.D. 1785. The particulars of this interesting case are published in the Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge.435 FRONT OF THE THIGH. F F 2 muscles keep the side of the triangle always tight, and thereby prevent any compression of the vessels. Hunter's canal contains not only the femoral artery and vein, but also the internal saphenous nerve. The vein lies behind the artery, the nerve ^^S- 97. on its inner side, as shown in fig. 97. After an examination of the course and relations of the femoral artery, it is plain that a ligature can be placed around it, in the upper thii'd of the thigh, with com- parative facility; not so easily in the section through hunteb's middle third. The artery is tied for an cj^al. aneurism of the popliteal, just where the i. vastus intemus. , . T . . n r ji 2. Adductor longus. SartormS begins to overlap it for three 3. Aponeurosis thrown across. reasons :— 1, it is more accessible ; 2, the coats of the artery at this distance are less likely to be diseased; 3, the origin of the profunda is sufficiently far off to admit of the formation of a coagulum. An incision, beginning about three inches below the crural arch, should be made about three inches over the line of the artery. The muscular fascia should be divided over a director to the same extent. Then, by gently drawing aside the inner border of the sartorius, we discover the artery enclosed in its sheath with the vein. An opening should be made into the sheath just sufficient to admit the passage of the aneurismal needle, which should be turned round the artery from within outwards. The nerves to be avoided are.— the long saphenous, which runs along the outer side of the artery, and the cutaneous nerves which cross obliquely over it.* Having already traced the superficial branches of the femoral artery in the gi-oin, namely, the superficial epigastric, pudic, and circumflexa ilii, (p. 412,) we pass on now to the profunda. * The nerve (sometimes called tlie short saphenous) which supplies the vastus in- temus is so far out of the way, that it could not be included in the ligature, except by a very careless operator.FRONT OF THE THIGH. 436 Profunda "^^^ profunda is the chief branch of the femoral, and itrtery and is the proper nutrient artery of the thigh. It arises from brandies. ^-^^ y^^^^ p^^^ ^^le femoral, about one and a half or two inches below the crural arch, and runs down behind the femoral till it reaches the tendon of the adductor longus; here the profunda passes behind the adductor, and is finally lost in the hamstring muscles. In most subjects, the profunda, for a short distance after its origin, lies rather on the outer side of the femoral and on a deeper plane, over the psoas muscle : in this situation it might be mistaken for the femoral itself,—indeed, such an error has actually occurred in practice. It soon, however, gets behind the femoral, but is never in actual contact with it, for the two arteries are separated by their corresponding veins.* The brancheis of the profunda generally arise in the following order :—1, the internal circumflex; 2, the external circumflex ; 3, the perforating. The internal cireumflex sinks deep into the thigh between the psoas and pectineus. Here you lose it; but you will find it again in the dissection of the back of the thigh, between the adductor magnus and the quadratus femoris.. It supplies branches to the muscles in its neighbourhood, — namely, to the pectineus, psoas, the adductors, and the quadratus femoris: and inosculates with the obturator and ischiatic arteries, as shown in the diagram, p. 437. It also sends branches to the hip-joint, and sometimes the one which runs through the notch in the acetabulum to the Uga- mentum teres. The external circumflex runs transversely outwards beneath the sartorius and rectus, and subdivides into three sets of branches, — « ascending," " transverse," and " descending." The ascending run up to the outer side of the ilium, beneath the tensor fascioe and glutajus medius, supply these muscles, and inosculate with the terminal branches of the glutseal artery. The transverse are chiefly * The point at which the profunda is given oflP below the crui-al ardi varies very much even in the two limbs of the same body. We have measured it in 19 bodies, or 38 femoral arteries. It varied from ^ to 3 inches. In 22 cases the proftinda came off between If and 2 inches; in 9 this distance was exceeded; in 7 this di,stauce was less.437 FRONT OF THE THIGH. F F 3 lost in the vastus externus. The descending, one or more in number, of considerable size, run down between the rectus and crurfBus, supply both these muscles, and may be traced as low as the knee, where they inosculate with the ai'ticular arteries. The jperforating branches of the profunda are so named because they pass through the adductors to supply the hamstring muscles. There are generally three, but they vary both in number and size. The first is the largest. It passes between the' pectineus and ad- ductor brevis, and then through the tendon of the adductor magnus.438 PEONT OP THE TIIiaH. The second* passes through the tendon of the adductor brevis and magnus. The third through the tendon of the adductor magnus. They not only supply the hamstring muscles — namely, the biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus; but some of their branches turn horizontally round the back of the femur to reach the vastus externus, in the substance of which they communicate by a series of ai'ches. To test your knowledge of the arterial mosculations Arterial in- ^ j.^. ^high, reflect on the answer osculations. jrr i -m ,t r ^ t-x^A to the following questions. . If the femoral were tied above the origin of the profunda, how would the circulation be carried on? The ascending branch of the external circumflex communicates with the glutseal; the internal circumflex commu- nicates with the obturator and ischiatic (see fig. 98). Again — how is the circulation maintained when the femoral is tied below the profunda? The descending branch of the external circumflex and the perforating branches'of the profunda communicate with the articular branches of the popliteal and the tibial recurrent.f The continuation of the profunda, much reduced in size, passes through the tendon of the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the short head of the biceps. The anastomotica magna arises from the femoral artery just before it leaves its tendinous canal. It runs in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, in company with the long saphenous nerve to the inner side of the knee. Here it ramifies extensively over the capsule, and communicates with the other articular joj^ The anterior crural nerve is the largest branch of the cB™^ lumbar plexus (p. 332). It comes from the third and ZC™"" fourth lumbar nerves. It passes under the crui-al * This perforating branch usuaUy furnislies the nutritious ^. , t Bead the account of the dissection of an aneurismal limb by Sii- A. Cooper, Med. ^Tl^^'-^e'^o-- the thigh the femoral artery gives off several smaU branches to the sartorius, and one of considerable si.e for the supply of the ^t™. We may trace this branch through the substance of the vastus do^^•u to the patella, where it joins the beautiful network of vessels on the surface of that bone.439 FRONT OF THE THIGH. F F 4 arch, in a groove between the iliacus and psoas, about one quai-ter of an inch from the outer side of the femoral artery. It soon divides into a number of branches, some of which supply the skin, — others, the extensor muscles of the thigh. The cuta- neous branches, — namely, the long saphenous, the middle and internal cutaneous, have been already described (p. 433). Its mus- cular branches you should trace into the extensors of the leg; namely the rectus, the two vasti, the crurseus, and subcrurseus. But it cannot be said that it supplies them only, for it sends a branch (beneath the femoral vessels), to the pectineus ; one also to the sartorius. The obturator nerve, also a branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 332), supplies the addvictor muscles. It enters the thigh through the upper part of the obturator foramen with the corresponding artery, and immediately divides into two branches, of which one passes in front of, the other behind the adductor brevis. The front branch* subdivides for the supply of the gracilis, the adductor longus and brevis; the hind one supplies the obturator externus and the adductor magnus. In some bodies you can succeed in tracing a filament of the obturator nerve through the notch of the acetabulum into the hip-joint, and another, which runs near the popliteal artery, into the back part of the knee-joint. I have frequently seen cutaneous branches from the obturator on the inner side of the thigh. This is interesting practically, since it helps to explain the great pain often felt on the inner side of the knee in cases of disease of the hip-joint. The obturator artery after passing through the foramen, divides into two branches, which form a circle round the obturator mem- brane. These supply the external obturator and adductors of the thigh, and inosculates with the internal circumflex and ischiatic arteries (p. 437). It usually gives off also the little artery to the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. * Near the lower border of the adductor longus: a filament from this branch gene- rally commimicates with one of the internal cutaneous branches of the anterior crural nerve. This communication takes place over the femoral artery in Hunter's canal440 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Continue the incision from the knee down the front of the leg, over the ankle, along the top of the foot to the great toe. Another incision must be made at right angles to the first, on either side oi the ankle, that the skin may be reflected from the front and sides of the leg and foot. Cutaneous Having already traced the internal saphena vein veins and (p. 414) to the inner side of the knee, you must now nerres. follow it down the inner side of the leg, over the inner ankle* to the top of the foot. On the top of the foot notice that the principal veins form an arch, with the convexity forwards, just as on the'back of the hand. This arch receives the veins from the toes. From the inner side of the arch the internal saphena originates; from the outer side, the external saphena. The latter vein runs behind the external ankle, up the back of the calf of the leg to join the popliteal vein. The skin on the inner side of the leg is supplied by the long sa- phenous nerve (p. 434). This nerve becomes subcutaneous on the inner side of the knee, between the gracilis and sartorius. Here it meets the saphena vein, and accompanies it down the leg, distri- buting its branches on either side, till it is finally lost on the inner side of the foot. The largest branch curves round the inner side of the knee, just below the patella, to supply the skin in this situation. External '^^^^ ^ branch of the peroneal nerve. It comes cuten^ous through the fascia about the lower thii-d of the outer side of the leg; and descending over the front of the ankle, divides and subdivides over the top of the foot. Trace its subdivisions and you will find that one runs along the inner side of the great toe ; the others supply the outside of the second toe, both sides of the third and foui'th, and the inside of the little toe. * The Prencli commonly bleed from tlie internal saphena as it runs oyer the inner ankle, this being a convenient and safe place for venesection.441 FllONT OF THE LEG. The outside of the little toe is supplied by the external saphenous nervre, which runs behind the outer ankle with the corresponding vein. The contiguous sides of the great toe, and the toe next to it, are supplied by the termination of the anterior tibial nerve.* , , . . This is remarkably thick and strong. Besides its Muscular fascia n . , i r i ^ and anniilar general purpose of forming sheaths for the muscles, ligaments. straps for the tendons, it gives origin, as in the forearm, to some of the muscular fibres; so that it cannot be removed from the surface of the muscles, near the knee, without leaving them ragged. Observe that the fascia is attached to the head of the tibia and the fibula; that it is identified on the inner side with the expanded tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus; on the outer side with that of the biceps; conse- quently, when these muscles act, the fascia is rendered tense. Following it down the leg, you find that it is attached to the edge of the tibia, and that it becomes stronger as it approaches the ankle, in order to form the ligaments which confine the tendons in this situation. Of these ligaments, which are called " anmdar," there are three, as follow : — a. The anterior extends obliquely across the front of the ankle joint and confines the extensor tendons of the ankle and toes. It consists of two straps which cross each other over the front of the ankle-like braces. One brace goes from the malleolus externus to the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones; the other runs from the cuboid and os calcis upwards and inwards to the inner border of the tibia : it is the excessive strain of this ligament which occasions the pain in sprains of the ankle. You will see presently that it makes a beautiful pulley for the extensor longus digitorum. h. The external extends from the outer malleolus to the os calcis, and confines the tendons of the peronei muscles, which dra\Y the foot outwards. G. The internal extends from the inner malleolus to the os calcis, and binds down the flexor tendons of the foot and toes. * Such is tlio most common distribution of the nerves to the upper surface of the toes. But deviations from this arrangement are frequent.IfJBONT OF TUE LEG. 442 Eemove the fascia, leaving enough of the annular ligaments to retain the tendons'in their places. , The muscles on the front of the leg a,re:—1, the Muscles ou o ' the front of tibialis anticus ; 2, the extensor communis digitorum the leg. peroneus tertius ; 3, the extensor proprius pollicis. The tibialis anticus arises from the upper two-thirds of Tibialis ^j^g outer side of the tibia, from the interosseous membrane, anticus. ^ and from the fascia which covers it. About the lower third of the leg the fibres terminate on a strong flat tendon, which descends obliquely over the front of the ankle to the inner side of the foot; here it becomes a little broader, and is inserted into the in- ternal cuneiform bone and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The synovial membrane, which lines the sheath of the tendon beneath the annular Jigament, accompanies it to within an inch of its insertion; consequently it is opened when the tendon is divided for club-foot. The action of this muscle is to draw the foot up- wards and inwards.* When the foot is the fixed point, it assists in balancing the body at the ankle. This muscle lies along the fibular side of the pre- commimis ceding. It arises from the head of the tibia, from the digitonun. ^pp^r two-thixds of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane and the fascia. Its fibres terminate in a penniform manner iipon a long tendon which descends over the ankle and divides into four. These diverge from each other, and are inserted into the toes thus: —On the first phalanx, each tendon (except that of the little toe) is joined on its outer side by the correspond- ino- tendon of the extensor brevis. The united tendons then expand, and are inserted as on the fingers; that is, the middle part is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; the sides run on to the base of the third. Immediately below the ankle the anterior annular ligament forms a beautiful pulley through which the tendon of this muscle plays. It is like a sling, of which the two ends are attached to the * It is generally necessary to divide this tendon in distortion of the foot inwards, called " talipes varus."443 FRONT OF THE LEG. 03 calcis, while the loop serves to confine the tendon. The play of the tendon is facilitated by a synovial membrane, which is pro- longed for a short distance along each of its four divisions. Besides its chief action, this muscle extends the ankle-joint.* This appears like a portion of the preceding. Its Peroueus fibres arise from the lower part of the shaft of the fibula, and terminate on their tendon like barbs on a quill. The tendon passes through the same pulley with the long extensor of the toes, and, expanding considerably, is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. The peroneous tertius and the tibialis anticus are important muscles in progression. They raise the toes and foot from the gTound. Persons who have lost the use of these muscles are obliged to drag the foot along the ground, or to swing the entire limb outwards in walking. This muscle lies partly concealed between the tibialis Extensor i t • t • proprius anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. It arises poUicis. j.^^^ rather more than the middle third of the fibula, and from the interosseous membrane. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner on the tendon, which runs over the ankle, along the'top of the foot, to the great toe, where it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It has a special pulley beneath the angular ligament, lined by a synovial membrane, which accompanies it as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. ^ This muscle is situated on the top of the foot, beneath Extensor ' brevis digi- the long extensor tendons of the toes. It arises from torum. front part of the os calcis, and from the ligaments uniting this bone to the astragalus. The fibres run obliquely over the foot, and terminate on four tendons, which join the fibular side of the long extensor tendons of the four inner toes. Now examine the course, relations, and branches of the anterior * There is often a large bursa between the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum and the outer end of the astragalus. There is much friction here. What is of more importance, this bursa sometimes communicates with the joint of tho head of the astragali^; it did so in the last foot I examined.444 FRONT or THE LEG. tibial artery. Since it lies deep between the muscles, it is neces- sary to separate tbem from each other: this is easily done by pro- ceeding from the ankle towards the knee. The anterior tibial artery is one of the two branches CouESB AND j^Q^Q which the popliteal divides at the lower border of BTSLATIONS ^ •■• • i -i 1 OF THE ANTE- the popHteus. It comes forward about 1^ inch below EioB TIBIAL ^jjg £ fibula, and then descends, lying in rather more than the first half of its course upon the interosseous membrane, afterwards along the front of the tibia. It runs beneath the annular ligament over the front of the ankle, and over the instep to the interval between the first and second meta- tarsal bones, where it sinks into the sole and joins the deep plantar arch. Thus, a line drawn from the head of the fibula to the interval betwen the first and second metatarsal bones would nearly coincide with its course. In the upper third of the leg it lies deep between the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum; in the lower two-thirds, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius pollicis. But in front of the anlde the artery is crossed by the extensor proprius pollicis, so that on the top of the foot it runs along the outer side of this tendon. Again, just before it sinks into the sole, it is crossed by the short extensor tendon of the great toe. The artery is accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve (a branch of the peroneal), which runs for some distance on its fibular side, crosses it above the ankle, and lies on the top of the foot on its tibial side."^ It is accompanied by two veins, one on either side, which communicate at intervals by cross branches. The best guide to the artery in the upper part of its course is the inner edge of the fibula; on the top of the foot, the outer border of the long extensor tendon of the great toe. The branches of the anterior tibial are as follow : — a. The recurrent branch ascends close by the outer side of the head of the tibia to the knee-joint, where it inosculates with the other articular arteries derived from the popliteal. b. Irregular muscular branches. c. The malleolar branches, external and internal, ramify over the ^' ^ ''''I'RONT OF THE LEG. 445 ankle, supplying the joint, the articular ends of the bones, and the sheaths of the tendons around them. d. The tarsal branch arises near the scaphoid bone, passes beneath the extensor brevis digitorum towards the outside of the foot, supplies the bones and joints of the tarsus, and inosculates with the arteries in the sole. e. The metatarsal branch generally runs towards the outside of • the foot, near the bases of the metatarsal bones, and gives off the three outer interosseous arteries. These pass forwards over the corresponding interosseous muscles, supply them, and then sub- divide to supply the opposite sides of the upper surface of the toes. They communicate by perforating branches with the plantar arteries. /. The dorsalis hallucis is, strictly speaking, the artery of the first interosseous space. It comes from the anterior tibial just before this sinks into the sole, and runs forwards to supply the opposite sides of the first two toes. These muscles are situated on the outer side of the MusoLM fibula, and are named respectively the peroneus longus and brevis. This arises from the outer surface of the fibula along Im^r^ its upper half. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a tendon, which runs through a groove behind the outer ankle, then along the outer side of the os calcis, and lastly, through a groove on the under surface of the os cu- boides deep into the sole. You will see presently that it crosses the sole obliquely, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe. In its course through these several bony grooves the tendon is confined by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial membrane. In removing the metatarsal bone of the great toe, you ought if possible to leave the insertion of this tendon. Peroneus "^^^^ muscle lies beneath the preceding. It arises from brevis.'^ the lower half of the outer surface of the fibula. It ter- minates on a tendon which runs behind the outer ankle through the same sheath with the peroneus longus, then proceeds446 GLUTiEAL REGION. along the outside of the foot, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe.* The action of the peronei is to raise the outer side of the foot-j This movement regulates the bearing of the foot in progression, so as to throw the principal part of the weight on the ball of the great toe. Its action is well exemplified in skating. Again, supposing the fixed point to be at the foot, they tend to prevent the body from falling on the opposite side, as when we balance ourselves on one leg. Near the inner side of the tendon of the biceps flexor nerve"'''^ of the leg, is a large nerve called the peroneal^ a branch of the great ischiatic. By reflecting the upper part of the peroneus longus, you will find that this nerve runs round the outer side of the fibula immediately below its head. Here it divides into several bj-anches, as follow: — 1. A small ai-ticular branch, which accompanies the recurrent artery to the knee-joint; 2. The anterior tibial, which accompanies the corresponding artery; 3. The external cutaneous (p. 440), which comes through the fascia be- tween the peroneus longus and the extensor longus digitorum; 4. Branches which supply all the muscles in front of the leg, namely, the extensors of the foot and the toes and the peronei. DISSECTION OF THE GLUTEAL REGION. The incision through the skin should commence at the coccyx, and be continued in a semicircular manner along the crest of the ilium. Another incision should be made from tbe coccyx down- wards and outwards for about six inches below tbe great trochanter. In reflecting the skin, notice the thick cushion which the sub- cutaneous adipose tissue forms over the tuberosity of the ischium. * On the outside of the os calcis there is a slight ridge which separates the tendons of the peronei. Each has a distinct sheath. The short tendon runs above, the long one below the ridge. t In distortion of the foot outwards, caUed "taHpes valgus," it is generally neces- sary to divide the tendons of the peronei.GLUTEAL REGION. 447 I have often seen a large bursa between the cushion and the bone. These are derived from several sources. Some de- Cutaneous g^end over the crest of the ilium, near the origin of the nerves. " erector spinas; they are the posterior divisions of the first and second lumbar nerves. Over the middle of the crest comes the lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve, and often a smaller one from the fii-st lumbar. Other cutaneous nerves come up from below; they are branches of the lesser ischiatic, and proceed from beneath the lower border of the gluteus maximus. Lastly, the skin of the sacrum and coccyx is supplied by the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. Three powerful muscles are situated on the buttock, l^^^r^'^t^ one above the other, named, according to their relative size, the glutaeus maximus, medius, and minimus. -This is the largest muscle in the body. Its great Gluteus size is characteristic of man, in reference to his erect ui ttxiin.li s. position. Its texture is thick and coarse. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, from the lower part of the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro-ischiatic liga- ment. The fibres descend obliquely forwards, and are inserted thus: — the anterior two-thirds terminate on a strong broad tendon which plays over the great trochanter, and joins the aponeurosis on the outside of the thigh (p. 425) ; the remaining third is inserted into the femur, along the ridge leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter. This muscle extends the thigh bone upon the pelvis, and is therefore one of those most concerned in raising the body from the sitting to the erect position, and in maintaining it erect. It also propels the body — in walking, running or leaping. It is well supplied with blood by the gluteal and ischiatic arteries; with nerves by the lesser ischiatic. What is seen . "^'l® glutteus maximus should be reflected from beneatli the its Origin, The best way to do so is to beo-in at the gluteus maxi- fro^t ^^^.^^^^ ^^-^-^^ overlaps the gluteus medius. This dissection is difficult, and he who undertakesGLUTiEAL REGION. 448 it for the first time is almost sure to damage the subjacent parts. The numerous nutrient vessels which enter its under-surface must necessarily be divided. Supposing the object accomplished, what have we exposed beneath ? the muscle covering the ilium is the glutBBus medius. At the posterior border of this are the several objects which come out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch—namely, the pyriformis muscle, above which is the trunk of the gluteal artery with the glutseal nerve, and below which are the greater and lesser ischiatic nerves, the ischiatic artery and the pudic artery and nerve. Coming throiigh the lesser ischiatic notch, we see the tendon of the obturator internus, and tacked on to it are the gemelli muscles, one above, the other below it. Extending from the tuber ischii to the great trochanter is the quadratus femoris. Lastly, where the tendon of the glutaeus maximus plays over the trochanter major, there is a large bursa, simple or multilocular. I have seen it in some subjects sufficiently capacious to hold half a pint of fluid. This muscle arises from the surface of the ilium, be- mldhir tween the crest and the upper curved line ; also from the strong fascia which covers it towards the front. The fibres converge to a tendon which is insert-ed into the upper and outer surface of the great trochanter: some of the anterior fibres in immediate connection with the tensor fascia) — terminate on the aponeurosis of the thigh. Eeflect the glutseus medius to see the third glutaeal muscle. The line of separation between them is marked by a large branch of the glutseal artery. This muscle arises from the surface of the ilium below Gluteus ^j^g upper curved line. Its fibres pass over the capsule of the hip-joint, and converge to a tendon which is inserted into a depression on the front part of the great trochanter. The chief action of this and the preceding muscle is to assist in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh, as, when we are standing on one leg; with the fixed point at the ilium, it is an abductor of the thigh. The anterior fibres of the glutseus medius co-operate with the tensor fascite in rotating the thigh inwards.449 GLUTiEAL REGION. Glutivjal '^^^ glutJBal artery is the largest branch of the vessels and internal iliac (p. 437). Emerging from the pelvis nenes. through the great ischiatic notch above the pyriformis muscle, it at once divides into large branches for the supply of the glutceal mitscles. Of these, some proceed forwards between the glutseus maximus and medius; others run in curves between the glutceus medius and minimus, towards the anterior part of the ilium. Many of them inosculate with branches of the external circumflex. The nerve which accompanies the glutseal artery is a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve (p. 451). It subdivides to supply the glutseus medius and minimus, and the tensor fasciae ; in some subjects it sends a branch to the glutseus maximus; but this muscle is chiefly supplied by the lesser ischiatic nerve. A practical sm-geon ought to be able to cut down and tie the gluta;al ai-tery as it emerges from the pelvis. The following is the best rule for finding it: — the toes are supposed to be turned inwards. Draw a line from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the midspace between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter. The artery emerges from the pelvis at the point where the superior third joins the two inferior thirds of this line.* Now examine the series of muscles which rotate the thigh out- wards — namely, the pyriformis, the obturator internus, the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator externus. Pyriformis. "^^^^ muscle arises from the front surface of the sacrum between the holes for the sacral nerves, and from the margin of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper border of the trochanter major. Its nerve comes from the sacral plexus. Obturator "^^^^ muscle, of which we can at present see very little internus. more than the tendon, arises within the pelvis from the ischium between the great ischiatic notch and the obtu- rator foramen; also from the obturator membrane. The fibres * The operation of tying the glutseal artery was first performed by John BeU See his "Principles of Surgery," yol. i. p. 421. a Or450 GLUTEAL KEGION. terminate on four tendons which converge towards the lesser ischi- atic notch, pass round it as round a pulley, and then uniting into one, are inserted into the top of the great trochanter. Divide the . tendon about three inches from its insertion, to see the four tendons which play over the smooth cartilaginous pulley. There is a large synovial bursa to prevent friction. The nerve of this muscle comes from the sacral plexus; sometimes from the pudic nerve. These muscles are accessory to the obturator internus, GemeUi. situated, one above, the other below it. The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium: the gemellus inferior from the upper part of the tuberosity. Their fibres are inserted into the tendon of the obturator internus. Both muscles derive their nferves from the sacral plexus. This muscle arises from the ridge on the outer part of Quadratus ^}^q tuber ischii. Its fibres run horizontally outwards, and are inserted into the back of the great trochanter, in a line with the linea aspera. Notice that the lower border of the quadratus femoris runs parallel with the upper edge of the ad- ductor magnus ; in fact, it lies on the same plane. Between these muscles is generally seen a terminal branch of the internal circum- flex artery. The nerve of this muscle comes from the sacral plexus. muscle you must reflect the quadratus Obturator femoris. It arises from the front surface of the ramus of externus. ^^^^^ ischium, ahd from the obturator mem- brane The fibres converge to a tendon which runs horizontally outwards over a groove in the ischium, and is inserted into the deepest part of the pit of the great trochanter. Its nerve js a branch of the obturator (p. 439). . ^ .^ i This larc^e nerve is formed by the union of the sacrai Satic nerves (fig. 99), and is destined to supply all the flexor muscles of the lower extremity. Emerging from the pelvis through the ischiatic notch, below the pyi-iformis, it descends over the external rotator muscles of the thigh, along the interval between the tuber ischii and the trochanter major, but rather nearer451 GLUTiEAL REGION. to the former, so that, in the sitting position, the nerve is protected from pressure by this bony prominence. The nerve does not descend quite perpendicularly, but rather obliquely forwards, parallel with the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. It is accom- Pig. 99. lumb; 12. N. of pyriformls. 13. N. of gemellus superior. 14. N. of gemellus inferior. 15. N. of quadratus femoris. 16. N. of glutaeus maximus. 17. Long pudendal n. 18. Cutaneous D. of the but- tock. 19. N. of the long head of the biceps. 20. N. of semi-tendinosus. 21. N. of semi-membrano. sus. 22. N. of short head of the biceps. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Sacral nn. 6. Superior glutseal n. 7. Great ischiatic n. 8. Lesser ischiatic n. 9. Pudic n. 10. N. of obturator'internus. 11. N. of levator ani. PLAN OF THE SACHAl PLEXUS AND BRANCHES. panied by a branch of the ischiatic artery, called the " comes nervi ischiaticV * I have known serious secondary hemorrhage from this branch after an amputation. * The arteria comes nervi iscliiatici runs generally by the side of the nerve, but sometimes in the centre of it. This artery becomes one of the chief channels by which the blood reaches the lower Hmb after ligatm-e of the femoral. See a preparation in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where the femoral was tied by John Hunter fifty years before the man's death. G G 2452 GLUTiEAL EEGION. Losser "^^^^ comes from the lower part of the sacral plexus. It isehiatic leaves the pelvis with the greater ischiatic nerve, but on the inner side of it, and in company with the ischiatic artery. The only muscular branches which it gives off are, one or more, which supply the glutaaus maximus. All its other branches are cutaneous. One turns round the lower border of the glutseus maximus, and supplies the skin of the buttock. Another, called the long pudendal, turns inwards towards the perineum, to supply the skin of that region and the scrotum. The continued trunk runs down tfie back of the thigh beneath the muscular fascia, as low as the upper part of the calf, supplying the skin all the way down. This branch of the internal iliac leaves the pelvis Ischiatic ijgio^ the pyriformis, and then descends between the tiiber ischii and the great trochanter, along the inner side of the great ischiatic nerve. It gives off,—1, Two or more considerable branches to the glutaeus maximus; 2, A coccygeal branch, which runs through the great sacro-ischiatic hgament, and then ramifies in the gluteus maximus, and on the back of the coccyx; 3, The comes nervi ischiatici; 4, Branches to the several'external rotator muscles; lastly, branches which supply the upper part of the hamstring muscles ; and others which mos- • culatewith the internal circumflex and obturator arteries (p. 437). The course of this artery and nerve has been fully Pudic artery described (p. 348). All that we have to observe and nerve. ^^^^^ ^hem now is, that they pass over the spine of the ischium, and that in a thin subject it is possible to com- press the artery against the spine. The rule for finding it is this: rotate the foot inwards, and draw a line from the top of the great trochanter to the base of the coccyx; the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds gives the situation of the ai-tery. * Mr. Trayers succeeded in aiTesting hemorrhage ^'^^'^''^'^^'f'Xl^ glans penis hy pressing the pudic artery with a cork against the spine of the ischium.453 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. The incision should be continued down the back of the thigh, the ham, and half way down the calf. The skin should be reflected on either side. Cutaneous '^^^ hack of the thigh is supplied by the nerves and lesser ischiatic nerve, which runs down beneath the fascia, as low as the upper third of the calf, distributing branches on either side. There are no subcutaneous veins of any size at the back of the thigh; for here they would be liable to pressure. But near the ham we find a vein, called the " external saphena." It ascends up the back of the calf, and joins the popliteal vein. Eespecting this, there is nothing to be remarked more £a!^^^ ^^^^ fibres run chiefly in a transverse direction, that it becomes stronger as it passes over the popliteal space, and that here it is connected with the tendons on either side. Eemove it, in order to examine the powerful muscles which bend the leg, called the "hamstrings." • . There are three of these, and all arise by strong mSes. ^ tendons from the tuber ischii. One, the biceps, is inserted into the head of the fibula; while the other two, namely the semitendinosus and semimembranosus, are in- serted into the tibia. The divergence of these muscles towards their respective insertions occasions the well-known space termed the "ham," which is occupied by soft fat, and the popliteal vessels and nerves. Biceps. "^^^^ muscle, as implied by its name, has two origins, a long and a short. The long one takes place, by means of a strong tendon, from the back part of the tuber ischii; the short one, by fleshy fibres, from the Unea aspera of the femur. This, which we can easily see by dissecting on the outside of the thigh, begins at the linea aspera, just below the insertion of the glutaeus maximus, and continues nearly down to the external con-BACK OF THE THIGH. 454 djle. It joins the longer part of the muscle, and both terminate on a common tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibula. It also gives off a strong expansion to the fascia of the leg. The tendon covers part of the external lateral ligameot of the knee- joint, and a small bursa intervenes.* The biceps is not only a flexor of the leg, but rotates the leg, when bent, outwards. It is this muscle which dislocates the knee outwards and backwards in chronic disease of the joint. This arises, in common with the biceps, from the Semitendi- -^^^^ ^^^^^ q£ ^j^g ^^j^er ischii. The fibres terminate ' upon a long tendon, which spreads out below the knee- joint, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia below the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis. Like them, it plays over the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and is provided with a b\u:sa to prevent friction. The semitendinosus sends off from the lower border of its tendon a very strong fascia to cover the leg, which is attached along the inner edge of the tibia. The middle of the muscle is cm-iously intersected by an oblique tendinous line. This muscle arises from the tuber ischii, outside the Semimem- ^.^^ preceding, by means of a strong flat tendon which branoBus. ^^^^^^ ^^^^.^y j^^lf Way down the thigh. It forms a - bulky muscle which lies on a deeper plane than the others, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the posterior part of the head of the tibia. In connection with this tendon there are three additional points to be noted—1, that its tendon is prolonged under the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and that a bursa intervenes between them; 2, that it forms the principal constituent of the " liaamentum posticum Winslowii " which covers the back of the knee-joint; 3, that a fascia proceeds from its lower border, and binds down the popliteus. A large bursa is almost invariably found between the semi- membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, where they rub one against the other. It is generally from one and a * THs tendon can be plainly felt as the outer hamstring in one's own person, just above'the head of the fibula.BACK OF THE THIGH. 455 ham-string muscles. half to two inches long. The chief point of interest concerning it is, that it occasionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, not directly, but through the medium of another bursa beneath the inner head of the gastrocnemius. From an examination of 150 bodies, I infer that this communication exists about once in five instances; and it need scarcely be said that the proportion is large enough to make us cautious in interfering too roughly with this bursa when it becomes enlarged.* Action of tlie These muscles produce two different effects, ac- cording as their fixed point is at the pelvis or the knee. With the fixed point at the pelvis, it is obvious that they bend the knee; with the fixed point at the knee, they form a very im- Kg. lOO. portant pait of the machinery which keeps the body erect. For instance, if, when standing, you bend the body at the hip, and feel the muscles in question, you find that they are in strong action, to prevent the trunk from falling forwards: they, too, are the chief agents concerned in bringing the body back again to the erect . position. In doing this, they act upon a lever of the first order as shown in fig. 100 ; the acetabulum being the fulcrum F, the trunk w, the weight to be moved, and the power p, at the tuber ischii. To put the action of the muscles of the; thigh on the pelvis in the clearest point of view, let us suppose we are standing upon one leg: the bones of the lower ex- tremity represent a pillar which supports * "When the buraa in question becomes enlarged, it occasions a fluctuating swelling of greater or less dimensions on the inner side of the popliteal space. The swelling bulges out, and becomes tense and elastic when the knee is extended, and vice vcrsd. As to its shape, it is generally oblong; but this is subject to variety, for we know that the bursaj, when enlarged, are apt to become multilocular, and to burrow between the muscles where there is the least resistance.POPLITEAL SPACE. 456 the weight of the trunk on a ball-and-socket joint; the weight is nicely balanced on all sides, and prevented from falling by four groups of muscles. In front, are the rectus and sartorius; on the inner side, the adductors; on the outer side, the glutaeus medius and minimus; behind, the ham-strings and glutaeus maximus. The ham-string muscles are supplied with blood by the per- forating branches of the profunda, which come through the tendon of the adductor magnus close to the femur. Their nerves are derived from the great ischiatic. Since the ham-string muscles diverge from each Popliteal Q^][^er to reach their respective insertions, they leave between them a space, called the "popliteal." Now this space is bounded below by the converging origins of the gas- trocnemius ; i|;s shape is, therefore, that of a lozenge. It is filled up by a large quantity of fat, which permits the easy flexion of the thicrh, and in this fat we find imbedded the popliteal vessels and nerves in the following order: nearest to the surface are the neiwes, while the vessels lie close to the bone, the vein being superficial to the artery (fig. 101). If the ischiatic nerve be traced from the biittock, we PopHteal £^^j ^Yia,t it descends upon the adductor magnus, and that, after being crossed by the long origin of the biceps, it then runs along the outer border of the semimembranosus. Having given branches to the three great flexor muscles, it divides, about the lower third of the thigh (higher or lower in difi'erent subjects), into two large nerves—the peroneal and the popliteal. The peroneal runs close by the inner side of the tendon of the biceps* towards the head of the fibula, below which we have already traced it (p. 446), dividing into branches for the peronei and all the extensors of the foot and the toes. The popliteal accompanies the popliteal artery, and is destined to supply the flexor muscles on the back of the leg. and the sole of the foot. By clearing out all the fat, we observe that the popliteal vessels * The nerve is, therefore, very Hahle to be injured in the operation of dividing the outer hamstring.457 POPLITEAL SPACE. enter the ham through an aperture in the adductor magnus, and descend close to the back part of the femur, and afterwards over the back of the knee-joint. At first they are partially overlapped (in muscular subjects), by the semimembranosus; indeed the Pig. lOL Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. Gracilis. Sartorius. Inner head of gastrocne- mius. POPLITEAL SPACE. outer border of this muscle is a good guide to the artery in the operation of tying it. With a little care you may discover two or more absorbent glands, which are situated one on each side of the artery. They deserve attention, because, when enlarged, their close proximity to the artery may give them an apparent pulsation which might be mistaken for an Absorbent glands. aneurism.CALF OF THE LEG. 458 Deferring the course, relations, and branches of the popliteal artery till this vessel is exposed throughout its whole course, pass on now to the great muscles of the calf. Continue the incision down the centre of the calf to the heel, and reflect the skin. Cutaneous veins '^^^ chief cutaneous vein and nerve of the calf is and nerves of called the " external or posterior saphenousJ^ The the calf. vein commences on the outer side of the foot, runs behind the outer ankle, and then up the calf, receiving numerous tributary veins in its course. It eventually passes through the muscular fascia, and joins the popliteal vein. The corresponding nerve is formed by two roots*,—one from the peroneal, the other from the popliteal (fig. 101). The roots gene- rally unite about the middle of the calf, and the single nerve coming through the fascia, descends with the saphenous vein, and is finally distributed to the outer side of the foot and the little toe. The great flexor muscle of the foot consists of two Mtjscles of portions; the superficial one, called the " gastrocnemius," arises from the lower end of the femur; the deep one, called the " soleus," arises from the tibia and fibula. The force of both is concentrated on one thick tendon, called the " tendo Achillis," which is inserted into the heel. This muscle arises by two strong tendinous heads. Gastrocnemius. ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^-^ ^^^^^ condyle of the femur (fig. 101). The inner head is the larger. The two parts of the muscle descend, distinct from each other, and form the two bellies of the calf, of which the inner is rather the lower. Both terminate, rather below the middle of the leg, on the broad com- mencement of the tendo Achillis. The gastrocnemius should be divided transversely near to its insertion, and reflected upwards from the subjacent soleus, as high as its origin. By this proceeding you observe that the contiguous surfaces of the muscles are covered by a beautiful glistening tendon * These two roots are sometimes called, respectively, the communicans peronei and communicans poplitei.459 CALF OF THE LEG. which receives the insertion of their fibres, and transmits their collected force to the tendo Achillis. You observe also the large sural vessels and nerves which supply each head of the muscle. Moreover, to facilitate the play of the inner tendon over the condyle, there is a bursa, which generally communicates with the knee-joint; and in the substance of the outer tendon is commonly found a small piece of fibro-cartilage. Lastly, between the gastrocnemius and soleus is the tendon of the plantaris. ^ This little muscle * arises from the rough line just above Plantaris. ^^^^^ condyle of the femur (fig. 101). It descends close to the inner side of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and terminates, a little below the knee, in a long tendon, which we trace down the inner side of the tendo Achillis to the calcaneum. This muscle arises from the head and upper third of the ° posterior surface of the fibula, from the oblique ridge on the back of the tibia f, and from about the middle third of the inner border of this bone. The fibres swell out beneath the gas- trocnemius, and terminate on a broad tendon, which, gradually contracting, forms a constituent part of the tendo Achillis. The soleus is svipplied with blood by several branches from the posterior tibial: also by a large branch from the peroneal. Its nerve comes from the popliteal and enters the top of the muscle. This is an important muscle in a surgical point of view, for two reasons, —1, by reflecting its tibial origin, we reach the posterior tibial artery : 2, by reflecting its fibular origin we reach the peroneal. The tendo Achillis begins about the middle of the leg, and is at first of very considerable breadth, but it gradually contracts and becomes thicker as it descends. The naiTowest part of it is about * This is the representative of the palmaris longus of the forearm. In man it is lost on the calcaneum, but in monkeys, who have preKensUe feet, it is the proper tensor muscle of the plantar fascia. It is remai-kably strong in bears and plantigi-ade mammals. t The tibial and fibular origins of the soleus constitute what some anatomists de- scribe as the two heads of the muscle. Between them descend the popliteal vessels, protected by a tendinous arch.CALF OF THE LEG. 460 one incli and a half above the heel; here, therefore, it can be most conveniently and safely divided for the relief of club-foot. There is no risk of injuring the deeper-seated parts, because they are separated from the tendon by a quantity of fat. Its precise inser- tion is into the under and back part of the os calcis. Observe that the tendon previously expands a little, and that between it and the bone there is a bursa of considerable size. The action of the gastrocnemius and soleus is to raise the body on the toes. Since the gastrocnemius passes over two joints, it has the power (like the rectus), of extending the one while it bends the other, and it is, therefore, admirably adapted to the purpose of walking. For instance, by first extending the foot it raises the body, and then, by bending the knee, it transmits the weight from one leg to thp other. Supposing the fixed point to be at the heel, the gastrocnemius is also concerned in keeping the body erect, for it keeps the tibia and fibula perpendicular on the foot, and thus counteracts the tendency of the body to fall forwards. The tendo Achillis in raising the body on tiptoe, acts with great power and under the best lever- age ; for it acts upon a lever of the first order. The fulcrum (which is a ' movable one), is at the ankle-joint F, fig. 102 ; the weight, W, is at the toes ; the power is at the heel, p. All the conditions are those of a lever of the first order. The power and the weight act in the same direction on opposite sides of the fulcrum. The pressure upon the fulcrum is equal to the sum of the pressures applied: -i. e. P x F + w x F. After passing through the opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, the main artery of the lower limb takes the name of " popliteal." It then descends nearly perpendicularly behind the knee- joint, between the origins of the gastrocnemius, as far as the lower border of the popliteus, where it divides into the anterior and Fig. 102. CotlESE AND EELATIONS OP THE POPLITEAL ABTEEY.461 CALF OF THE LEG. posterior tibial arteries. In its descent it lies, first, upon the lower part of the femur, and here it is slightly overlapped by the semimembranosus ; next it lies upon the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and lastly upon the popliteus. The vein closely ac- companies the artery, and is situated superficially with regard to it, and rather to its outer side in the fii'st part of its course. The popliteal nerve runs also in a similar direction with the vein, but is still more superficial and to the outer side (fig. 101). The vessels and the nerve are surrounded by fat, and we generally find one or two absorbent glands in the immediate neighbourhood of the artery, just above the joint. The branches of the popHteal artery are the articular and the sural. There are five articular branches for the supply of the knee- joint and the articular ends of the bone : the two superior run, one above each condyle, close to the bone; the two inferior run one beneath each lateral ligament of the joint; and all four proceed towards the front of the capsule. The fifth, called the " azygos," enters the joint through the posterior ligament. These articular arteries form, over the front and sides of the joint, a beautiful net- work of vessels, which communicate superiorly with cSations"^°^' descending branch of the external circumflex and the anastomotica magna, and inferiorly with the an- terior tibial recurrent. It is mainly through these channels that the collateral circulation is established in the leg after ligature of the femoral artery. The sural arteries proceed one to each head of the gastroc- nemius, and are proportionate in size to the muscle. One or two branches are distributed to the soleus. These arteries are accom- panied by branches of the popliteal nerve for the supply of the muscles. You can now examine more fully the insertion of the semi- membranosus into the head of the tibia, alluded to p. 454. This muscle arises from a depression on the outside of the external condyle by a thick tendon which nms beneath the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The462 CALE OF TliK LJiG. muscular fibres gradually spread out, and are inserted into the posterior surface of the tibia above the oblique ridge on this bone. Its action is to rotate the tibia inwards. Notice that the tendon plays over the articulation between the tibia and fibula, that a bursa intervenes to prevent friction, and that this generally communi- cates by a wide opening with the knee-joint. Eeflect the soleus from its origin, and remove it from the deep- seated muscles, observing at the same time the numerous arteries which enter its under surface. This done, notice the fascia which binds down the deep muscles. It is attached to the margin of the bones on either side, and increases in strength towards the ankle, in order^ to form an annular ligament to confine the ten- dons and the vessels and nerves in their passage into the sole of the foot, t There are three:—1, the flexor longus digitorum Deep muscles ' ° °. . ON THE BACK ou tho tibial sldc; 2, the flexor longus pollicis on OF THE LEG. fibular ; 3, the tibialis posticus upon the inter- osseous membrane, between and beneath them both. This arises from the posterior surface of the tibia Flexor longus commencing below the popliteus, and extending to digitorum. ° i ^ c J.^ within about four mches of the lower end oi the bone. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the inner ankle, and entering the sole, divides into four tendons for the four outer toes. This is a remarkably powerful muscle. It arises Flexor longus ^^^^ lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of ^° the fibula. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the astragalus, and thence along the sole to the great toe. The action of this muscle is, to raise the body on the tip of the great toe. It is essential to the propulsion of the body in walking. This is so concealed between the two preceding muscles Tibialis ^-ija^i^ cannot properly examine it without reflecting posticus. ^-^^^^ arises from the interosseous membrane and from the tibia and fibula. The muscular fibres terminate on a tendon which comes into view a short distance above the inner463 CALF OF THE LEG. ankle, and, running through the same groove with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, then enters the sole, and is inserted into the scaphoid bone. Its action is to bend and turn the foot inwards. The precise situation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus is interesting in a surgical point of view, because the tendon has to be divided for the relief of talipes varus. It lies close to, and parallel with, the inner edge of the tibia, so that this is a very good guide to it. It is necessary to relax the tendon, while the knife is introduced between the tendon and the bone. 'Its synovial sheath commences about 1^ inch above the end of the internal malleolus, and is consequently opened in the operation. ^ This artery is one of the branches into which the NATIONS OF THE popHtoal dlvldcs at the lower border of the po- posTERioB Ti- pliteus. It descends over the deep niuscles at the back of the leg to the interval between the internal malleolus and the os calcis, and, entering the sole, divides into the external and internal plantar arteries. It lies first for a short distance, upon the tibialis posticus, then on the flexor longus digi- torum ; but behind the ankle it is in contact with the tibia, so that here it can be felt beating during life, and effectually compressed. In the upper part of its course, it runs nearly midway between the bones, is covered by^the great muscles of the calf: to tie it, there- fore, in this situation, is very difficult. But in the lower part of its course, it gradually approaches the inner border of the tibia, from which, generally speaking, it is not more than ^ or | inch distant. Here, being comparatively superficial, it may be easily tied. Immediately behind the internal malleolus, we find it between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, on the inner side, and the flexor longus pollicis on the outer. It has two vense comites, which communicate at intervals. Its branches are as follow: — a. Numerous unnamed branches to the soleus and the deep muscles. b. The 'peroneal is a branch of very considerable size; often as large as the posterior tibial. Arising about l^inch below the division of the popliteal, it descends close to the inner side of theSOLE OF THE FOOT. 464 fibula, and then over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer part of the os calcis, where it inosculates with the malleolar and plantar arteries. Observe that all down the leg it is imbedded among the muscles: for it is covered first by the soleus, and afterwards by the flexor longus pollicis. To both these muscles, but to the latter especially, it sends numerous branches, and just above the ankle it gives off a constant one, which runs in front of the tibio-fibular articulation, and inosculates with the other malleolar arteries. Posterior "^^^^ continuation of the popliteal. It descends tibial close to its Corresponding artery, and, entering the sole of the foot, divides into an external and internal plantar nerve. Eespecting its precise position with regard to the artery, observe, that jn the first part of its course the nerve lies superficial to the artery, and rather to its inner side; but behind the ankle the nerve lies on the outer side of the artery, and on the same plane.* Its branches supply the three deep-seated muscles. DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. Make a perpendicular incision down the middle of the sole, and reflect the skin. Notice the peculiar structure of the subcutaneous tissue. It is composed of globular masses of fat, separated by strong fibrous septa, and forms an elastic pad. This is especially marked at the heel, and at the ball of the great and the Uttle toe ; these being the points which form the tripod supporting the arch of the foot. In removing the subcutaneous tissue from the ball of the great and the little toe, we often meet with bursae, simple or multilocular. They are generally placed between the skin and the sesamoid bones, a.nd have remarkably thick walls. Very frequently we trace an * It sometimes happens that the nerve divides into its two plantar branohea higher than usual, and then we find that one lies on either side of the artery.SOLE OF THE FOOT. 465 artery and nerve running directly through one of these sacs, and this explains the acute pain produced by their inflamma- tion. The skin of the heel is supplied by a branch of the Srves!°^^ posterior tibial nerve: the remainder of the sole by small branches of the plantar nerves which come through the fascia, just as in the palm of the hand. This is remarkably dense and strong. It extends from fasda!^ back part of the os calcis to the distal ends of the metatarsal bones : it not only protects the plantar vessels and nerves, but is also one among the many structures which support the arch of the foot. It acts like the string of a bow (p. 479). One sees this exemplified in some cases of distor- tion, where an unnatural contraction of the plantar, fascia makes the arch of the foot too convex, and it is necessary to divide the fascia in order to relieve the deformity. The arrangement of the fascia is just like that in the palm. The central part, where there is the greatest strain, is very strong. The external part, which is attached to the proximal end of the'fifth metatarsal bone is also very strong. Near the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, the central part divides into five portions; each of these subdivides into two slips, which embrace the corresponding flexor tendons, and are attached to the metatarsal bones and their connecting ligaments. Between the primary divisions of the fascia, — that is, in a line between the toes, —we trace the digital vessels and nerves. In the interdigital folds of the skin, there are also ligamentous fibres, which run from one side of the foot to the other, and answer the same purpose as those in the hand. The plantar fascia must be partially removed to examine the muscles. You soon discover that towards the os calcis its removal is not accomplished without some difficulty, because the muscles arise from it. SupERFiciAi, After the removal of the fascia three muscles are Musci.Es. exposed. All arise from the os calcis and the fascia, H H466 SOLE or THE FOOT. and proceed forwards to the toes.* The central one is the flexor brevis digitorum; the two lateral are the abductor pollicis, and the abductor minimi digiti. This muscle arises from the inner and back part of AMiictor calcis, and from the internal annular ligament. polllClS. ' 1 J Its origin arches over the plantar vessels and nei-ves in their passage into the sole. The fibres run along the inner side of the sole, and terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, through the medium of the internal sesamoid bone. Abductor "^^^^ muscle has a very strong origin from the under- minim i surface of the os calcis; also from its external tubercle, digiti. Some of its fibres terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the proximal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe; but the greater part run on to a tendon which is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the little toe. This muscle arises from the under-surface of the os J? iGxor brevis digi- calcis, between the two preceding. It passes forwards torum. divides into four tendons, which run superficial to those of the long flexor. Cut open the sheath which contains them; follow them on to the toes, and you will find that each bifurcates over the first phalanx, so as to allow the long tendon to pass; . then the two slips, re-uniting, are inserted into each side of the second phalanx. In fact, the same arrangement prevails as in the fingers. The three superficial muscles should be reflected from their insertions only, so that they can be replaced if necessary. This done, you bring into view the plantar vessels and nerves, the long flexor tendon of the great toe, and that of the other toes, as well as the flexor accessorius. Tendon of the Tracing this tendon into the sole, you find flexor longiis that an accessory muscle is attached to it. The digitorum. muscle arises from the inner side of the os calcis, Mu.sculus ac- • • r j.-u and has often a second tendmous ongm from the cessonus. * They are separated from each other by strong perpendicular partitions, proceeding from the fascia.SOLE OF THE FOOT. 467 outer side of the bone. Its fibres run straight forwards, and are inserted into the fibular side of the tendon, so that their ac- tion is not only to assist in bending the toes, but to make the common tendon pull in a straight line towards the heel, which, fi'om its oblique direction, it would not do without this accessory muscle. The common tendon then divides into four, one for each of the four outer toes. These run in the same sheath with the short tendons, and after passing through them are inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Eespecting the manner in which the tendons ai"e confined by fibrous sheaths, and lubricated by a synovial lining, what was said of the fingers (p. 239) applies equally to the toes. ^ . ^ These fom* little muscles are placed between the long flexor tendons. Each, excepting the most inter- nal, arises from the adjacent sides of two tendons, proceeds forwards, and then sinking between the toes, terminates in an aponeurosis which joins the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the toes. Con- cerning their use refer to p. 242. Now trace the long flexor tendon of the great toe. From the groove in the astragalus it runs along the groove in the lesser tuberosity of the OS calcis, and then straight to the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Observe that it crosses the long flexor tendon of the toes, and that the two tendons are connected by an oblique slip ; so that we cannot bend the other toes without the great toe. f The posterior tibial artery, having entered the sole aeteh:^. between the origins of the abductor pollicis, divides into the external and internal plantar arteries. The internal plantar artery is very small: it passes forwards between the abductor pollicis and the flexor brevis digitorum to the base of the great toe, where it terminates in small inosculations with the digital arteries. Its chief use is to supply the muscles between which it runs. The external plantar is the principal artery of the sole, and alone forms the plantar arch. It runs obliquely outwards across the sole towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; then, sinking deep from the surface, it bends inwards across the bases of468 SOLE OF THE FOOT. Fig. 103. the metatarsal bones, and inosculates with the anterior tibial in the first interosseous space. In the first part of its course, it lies between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accessorius; in the second it lies very deep beneath the flexor tendons, and the ad- ductor pollicis, close to the metatarsal bones. Deeply seated as it appears to be, a part of its curve near the fifth metatarsal bone lies immediately beneath the fascia. Here it might be more easily tied than in any other part of its course. Its chief branches are the four digital ar- teries, which arise in the arched part of its course. Theyf supply both sides of the fifth, fourth, third, and the outer side of the second toe ; the great toe, and the inside of the se- cond, being supplied by the dorsalis hallucis. Concerning the distribution of the digital ar- teries, refer to the account given of these arteries in the hand; they are in all respects similar (p. 236). Besides the digital arteries, the arch gives off small branches, which ascend between the metatarsal bones and inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The posterior tibial nerve divides, like the artery, Plantae -^^(^ external and internal plantar. The internal plantar is generally the larger, and supplies nerves to three toes and a half, like the median nerve in the palm. It also supplies the muscles on the inner side of the sole, the flexor brevis digitorum and the two inner lumbricales. The external plantar supplies nerves to the fifth toe and the outer side of the fourth, like the ulnar in the palm. Besides these, it furnishes nerves to the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the two outer lumbri- cales, the flexor accessorius, and a considerable branch which ac- companies the plantar arch for the supply of the adductor pollicis the transversalis pedis, and all the interossei. 1. Internal plantar. 2. External do.SOLE OF THE FOOT. 469 H H 3 Having traced the principal vessels and nerves. Deep mubtles. must divide them with the flexor tendons near the OS calcis, and turn them down towards the toes, so as to expose the deep muscles in the sole. These are, the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, the flexor brevis minimi digiti, the transversalis pedis, and the interossei. This muscle arises from the external cuneiform pomds.^"^^™ and the cuboid bone. ^ It proceeds along the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe, and divides into two portions, which run one on each side of the long flexor tendon, and are inserted by tendons into the sides of the first phalanx of the great toe. In each tendon there is a large sesamoid bone. These bones not only increase the strength of the muscle, but both together form a pulley for the free play of the long flexor tendon. This very powerful muscle arises from the cuboid ^*lUc^*°^ bone and the third and fourth metatarsal bones. Passing obliquely across the foot, it is inserted through the ex- ternal sesamoid bone into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. This muscle greatly contributes to support the arch of the foot. Like the adductor of the thumb it should be considered as an interosseous muscle. This little muscle arises from the base of the SSmi^^ti. ^^^^ metatarsal bone, proceeds forwards along it, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. This slender muscle runs transversely across the Si"^edis distal ends of the metatarsal bones. It arises by little fleshy slips from the four outer toes, and is inserted into the first phalanx of the great toe with the adductor pollicis, of which it ought to be considered a part. These muscles are arranged nearly like those in the IntGrosssi. * palm; that is to say, they occupy the intervals between the metatarsal bones, and are seven in number, four being on the dorsal aspect of the foot, and three on the plantar. They arise from the sides of the metatarsal bones, and terminate in tendons which are inserted, some into the inner, others into the outer sideLIGAMENTS 01' THE PELVIS. 470 of the first phalanges of the toes and their extensor tendons. Their use is to draw the toes to or from each other, and they do this or that according to the side of the phalanx on which they act. Now, if we draw an imaginary longitudinal line through the second toe, we find that all the dorsal muscles draw from that line, and the plantar towards it. This is the key to the action of them all. A more detailed account of these muscles is given in the dissection of the palm, p. 267. Between the tendons of the interossei, that is, between the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, there are little bursas to facilitate movement. These bursse are not without interest. They sometimes become enlarged and occasion painful swellings between the roots of the toes. I have seen two instances: both yielded to iodine. It now only A'emains to trace the tendons of the peroneus longus and the tibialis posticus. The tendon of the peroneus longus is the deepest in the sole. We find it running through a groove in the cuboid bone obliquely across the sole towards its insertion into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The tendon is confined in a strong fibrous sheath, which is lined throughout by synovial membrane. The tendon of the tibialis posticus may be traced over the in- ternal lateral ligament of the ankle, and thence \mder the head of the astragalus to the scaphoid bone into which it is chiefly inserted. One or two slips are sent off to the cuneiform bones. Observe that the tendon contributes to support the head of the astragalus, and that for this purpose it often contains a sesamoid bone. This is one of the many beautiful provisions for the solidity of the arch of the foot. DISSECTION OF THE LIGAMENTS. Ligaments '^^^ sacrum is united to the last lumbar vertebra in the ov THE same manner as one vertebra is to another. The same PELVIS. observation applies to the union between the sacrum and the coccyx. Eefer, therefore, to the description of the liga- ments of the spine, p. 190.471 LIGAMENTS 0¥ THE PELVIS. H H 4 The innomincate bones are connected to each other in front, constituting the " pubic symphysis ; " posteriorly to the sacrum or the spine, constituting the " sacro-iliac symphysis." This is secured by 1, an anterior ligament, consisting physis^"^'"^' oblique and transverse fibres; 2, a posterior ligament, less distinct; 3, a sub-pubic ligament, or " ligamentum arcuatum:" it is remarkably strong, and rounds off the point of the pubic arch ; 4, an intermediate fibro-cartilage. If you make a perpendicular section through it, you observe that it consists of con- centric layers, and that its general structure resembles that between the bodies of the vertebrae. It acts like a buffer, and breaks the force of shocks passing through the pelvic arch. Fig. 104. Great sacro-Ischlatic ligament Lesser sacrO 'Isctiiatic ligament Accessory ligament of the hip joint. Sacro- '^^^^ secured by, 1, ligamentous fibres in front; 2, iliac sym- ligamentous fibres much more marked, and collected physis- bundles behind; 3, a very strong ligament called the ilio-lumbar, which extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the crest of the ilium, fig, 105; 4, theLIGxVMENTS OF THE HIP. 472 greater sacro-ischiatic ligament, one of enormous strength, whicla extends from the sacrum and coccyx to the tuberosity of the ischium, fig. 104 ; and 5, the lesser sacro-ischiatic, which extends from the sacrum and coccyx to the spine of the ischium. The two last not only connect the bones, but also, from their great breadth, contribute to block up the lower aperture of the pelvis. Supposing all the preceding ligaments be divided, we still find that the ilium adheres most firmly to the sacrum. If they be forcibly separated, it is then seen how they are connected in front by a layer of cartilage, of which the shape is not unlike that of the ear: above and behind this, is the strong interosseous ligament, fig. 105, which contributes powerfully to the security of the sacro- iliac joint. Ligaments joint is secured by the form of the bones, and by OF THE HIP- the strength of the powerful muscles which surround it. JOINT. Being a perfect ball and socket, one might suppose that it would admit of universal motion; but it is not so : for the dis- position of its ligaments restricts its range of motion to those di- rections only which are most consistent with the maintenance of the erect attitude, and the requirements of this part of the skeleton. The most important ligament, and that which presents Ugament most interesting peculiarities, is the capsular. It is attached above, to the circumference of the acetabulum at a little distance from the margin; below, to the base of the neck of the femur; but observe, to the base of the neck in front only : posteriorly the capsule is not attached to the neck, it merely passes round it like a collar. The reason of this is, that there may be no hindrance to the free flexion of the femur. Another important point about the capsule is that it is not of equal thickness all round. It is made exceedingly thick and strong in front by a broad ligament which extends from the upper margin of the acetabulum down to the anterior inter-trochanteric line. Now this ligament is the thickest in the body: it is called the accessory ligament of the hip. I have shown the direction of itsLIGAMENTS OF THE HIP. 473 Interosseous ligament fibres ia fig. 104. What is the purpose of it ? Plainly, it acts as a strap to prevent the femur being extended beyond a certain limit: in other words, it pre- vents the body from rolling „. , ^ ,. , ° Ilio-luinbar ligament backwards at the hip. Lay open the capsule; ascertaining the enormous thickness of it in front, and the strong hold it has upon the bones. This proceeding exposes the cotyloid liga- ment, or " sucker" of the • acetabulum, and the liga mentum teres. The cotyloid li- Cotyloid . . ligament, gament IS a piece of fibro-cartilage which is attached all round the margin of the aceta- bulum. Its use is sufii- ciently apparent. It not only deepens the cavity, but gra- dually shelves off, so as to embrace the head of the femur like a sucker. It extends over the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and in this situation has received the name of the "transverse " ligament. Ligamen- ligamentum teres is exposed by drawing the head turn teres, ^f the femur out of the socket. This ligament is not round, as its name would imply, but somewhat flat and triangular. Its base is attached below, to the borders of the ace- tabular notch; its apex to the fossa in the head of the femur. To prevent pressure on it, and to allow free room for its play, there is a gap at the bottom of the acetabulum. This gap is not crusted with cartilage like the rest of the socket, but is occupied by a soft yielding fat. The ligamentum teres is surrounded by the synovial membrane. A Httle artery runs up with it to the head of the VEHTICAL SECTION THEOTJGH THE HIP.474 LIGAMENTS OF Tllii KNIiE. femur. It is a branch of the obturator, and enters the acetabulum through the notch at the lower part. The chief use of the ligamentum teres is to assist in steadying the pelvis on the thigh in the erect position. In this position, the ligament is vertical, and quite tight, fig. 105 : it therefore prevents the pelvis from rolling towards the opposite side, or the thigh from being adducted beyond a certain point. Another purpose served by this ligament is to limit rotation of the thigh, both inwards and outwards. To satisfy yourself of this you must prepare a joint for the purpose. Make a hole through the bottom of the acetabulum large enough to see the working of the ligament; leaving the capsule entire. Thus, then, it is evident that the ligaments of the hip are so arranged, that ,when we " stand at ease," the pelvis is spontaneously thrown into a position in which its range of motion is the most restricted; for the accessory ligament of the capsule prevents it from rolling backwards, and the ligamentum teres prevents its rolling towards the opposite side. This arrangement economises muscular force in the balancing of the trunk. The synovial membrane extends down to the base of the neck of the femiu- in front, but only two-thirds down behind. It is laid upon a thick periosteum. The head of the thigh-bone is kept in the acetabulum by at- mospheric pressure; the amount of this is, of itself, sufficient to keep the limb suspended from the pelvis, supposing all muscles and ligaments to be divided. When fluid is effused into the hip- joint, the influence of the atmospheric pressure is diminished in proportion; and the corresponding surfaces of the bones being no longer maintained in accurate contact, it sometimes happens that the head of the femur escapes from its cavity, giving rise to what is called a spontaneous dislocation. j^^^j^^^^^g Looking at the skeleton, one would suppose that the OF THE knee-joint was very insecure. But nature has amply ™-roiNT. ^^^^ ^^.g appj^j.g^|; insecurity by powerful liga- ments, and by surrounding the joint on all sides with a thick capsule formed by the tendons of the muscles which move it.475 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. Internal lateral. Fig. 106. Let lis first examine the tendons concerned in the con- Ugamont. struction of the capsular ligament. In front is the liga- mentum patellee; on either side are the tendons of the vasti; at the back of the joint no less than four tendons contribute to form the capsule,—namely, the tendons of the gastrocnemius, the tendon of the semi-membranosus, and of the popliteus. It deserves to be noticed that the weakest part of the capsule is near the tendon of the popliteus: here, therefore, matter formed in the popliteal space may possibly make its way into the joint, or vice versa. Exclusive of the capsule, the proper ligaments of the joint are — 1, the lateral; and 2, the crucial in the interior. This is a broad flat band, which extends from the inner condyle to the inner side of the tibia, a little below its head. A few of the deeper fibres are attached to the inner semilunar cartilage, and serve to keep it in place. In the perfori^ance of the several motions of the joint, there is a certain amount of friction between the ligament and the head of the tibia, and consequently a small bursa is interposed. ^ ^ ^ This is a strong round band, lateral which extends from the ou.ter condyle to the head of the fibula. In some instances there is a smaller band a little deeper, called the | short external lateral ligament. This, which is generally called "ligamentum posticum Winslowii," consists of expansions de- rived from the tendons at the back of the joint, chiefly, however, from the semi- membranosus. It not only closes and protects the joint behind, but prevents its extension beyond the perpendicular. The joint should be opened above the patella. Observe the great extent of the fold which the synovial membrane forms above Posterior. 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. External ditto.476 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. Crucial. this bone.* The use of it is to allow the free play of the bone over the lower part of the femur. The fold extends higher above the inner than the outer condyle : this accounts for the form of the swelling produced by effusion into the joint. Folds of Below the patella a slender band of the synovial synovial membrane proceeds backwards to the space between the mem lane. (jQj^^jyjgg^ jj. called the " ligamentum mucosum:" the edges of it are called the " ligamenta alaria.^^ These are not true Ligaments, but merely the remnants of the partition, which, in the early stage of the joint's growth, divided it into two lateral halves. Immediately outside the synovial membrane there is always more or less fat: this is especially accumulated under the Uga- mentum patellse. Its use is obviously to fill up vacuities, and to mould itself to the several movements of the joint. The crucial ligaments, so named because they cross like the letter X, extend from the mesial side of each con- dyle to the head of the tibia. The anterior, a, b, passes from the outer coudyle forwards to the fossa in front of the spine of the tibia. The posterior, c, d, is best seen from behind: it goes from the inner condyle backwards to the fossa behind the spine of the tibia. , Between the condyles and the Inter-articular or semilunar articular surfaces of the tibia there cartHages. incomplete rings of fibro- cartilage, shaped like the letter C. They an- swer many purposes. They deepen the articular surfaces of the tibia; their mobility and elasticity enable them to adapt themselves to the con- dyles in the several movements of the joint; they distribute pressure over a greater surface, upon the principle that a porter places a knot Fig. 107. a b. Anterior crucial liga- ment c. d. Posterior ditto. e. Tibio-fibular. * In performing operations near the knee, the joint should always be bent in order to draw the synovial fold as much as possible out of the way.LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. 477 on his shoulders to carry his load with greater ease ; they equalise pressure and prevent shocks. They are thickest at the cir- cumference, and gradually shelve off to a thin margin: thus they fit in nicely between the bones, and adapt a convex surface to a flat one, as shown in fig. 106. Their form is suited to the condyles; the inner being oval, the outer more circular. The ends of each are firmly attached to the pits in front and behind the spine of the tibia; but the ends of the internal one are attached further from the spine than the external. Besides this, the cartilages are mutually connected in front by a thin " transverse " ligament; and their circumference is attached round the head of the tibia by fibrous tissue (called the " coronary " ligament), yet not so closely as to restrict their range of motion.* The action of the ligaments of the knee-joint is a t^lm£^^ study of itself. Their respective points of attachment are such, that when the joint is extended, all the liga- ments are tight, to prevent extension beyond the perpendicular; thus muscular force is economised. But when the joint is bent the ligaments are relaxed, enough to admit a slight rotatory move- ment of the tibia. This movement is more free in an outward than an inward direction; and it is effected, not by rotation of the tibia on its own axis, but a rotation of the outer head Fig. 108. round the inner. Eotation outwards is produced by the biceps; rotation inwards by the popliteus. It is curious tha,t the crucial ligaments, though placed inside the joint, answer the same purposes that the coronoid process and the olecranon do, in the construction of the elbow. They make the tibia slide properly for- wards and backwards. The anterior, especially limits extension; the posterior, flexion. They not only pre- vent dislocation in front or behind, but they prevent * Of the two cartDages the external has the greater freedom of motion, because in rotation of the knee the outer side of the tibia moves more than the inner. Conse- quently, it is not in any way connected to the lateral Ugament; so far from this, it is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, of which the play is facilitated' by a bursa communicatiaig freely with the joint. For this reason the external cartilage is more liable to dislocation.LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. 478 lateral displacementj since they cross each other like braces, as shown in fig. 108. Ligaments con- There is a distinct j oint between the upper ends of NECTiNG THE the tibia and fibula, although it admits of but little TIBIA AND FIBULA. j. Ti • r> l IT IT T j. movement. It is firmly secured by oblique ligaments in front and behind (p. 476). The contiguous surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. In the great majority of instances its synovial membrane is independent; but we now and then meet with cases in which it communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee. The shafts of the bones are connected by the inter- Interosseoiis osseous membrane. The chief purpose of this is to membrane. ^ ^ r i afford additional surface for the attachment of muscles Its component fibres cross each other like the letter X, and have openings here and there for the passage of blood-vessels. The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are most firmly connected, for it is essential to the solidity of the ankle-joint that there be no motion between them. They are secured by an oblique ligament in front and behind, and by strong ligamentous fibres which con- nect their contiguous surfaces, and answer the purpose of rivets. Besides these, a strong fibro-cartilaginous ligament proceeds from the end of the fibula, and is attached along the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia. The object of it is to deepen the excavation of the tibia, and enable it to adapt itself more accurately to the articular surface of the astragalus. From the form of the bones, it is obvious that the Ligaments . . ,i ti n r OF THE ankle is a hinge joint; consequently, hke all others ot ANKiE-joiNT. j^.^^^ p^-gf security depends upon the great strength of its lateral ligaments. However, the hinge is not so perfect but that it admits of a slight rotatory motion, of which the centre is on the fibular side, and therefore the reverse of that in the case of the knee. T . 1 This ligament, sometimes called, from its shape, " del- Internal o ' n i r lateral. toid," is exceedingly thick and strong, and makes up lorLIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. 479 the comparative shortness of the malleolus on this side (fig. 109). The great strength of it is proved by the fact, that in dislocations of the ankle inwards, the summit of the malleolus is more likely to be broken off than the ligament to be torn. It arises from a deep excavation at the apex of the malleolus, radiates from this point, and is inserted into the side of the astragalus, also into the os calcis, and the scaphoid bone. Besides this, some of Fig. 109. 1. Plantar fascia, 2. Calcaneo-scaplioid or elastic ligament which supports the head of the astragalus. 3. Internal lateral ligament, called from its shape deltoid. its fibres are inserted into, and become identified with, the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament, so as to brace it up internally (fig. 109). ^ ^ ^ This ligament consists of three distinct parts,—an an- lateral. terior, a posterior, and a middle (fig. 110). All three arise from an excavation near the summit of the external mal- leolus ; the first two are inserted into the front and the back of the astragalus ; the middle into the os calcis. The clo.siu-e of the joint is completed, in front and behind, by a thin capsular membrane attached to the bones near their articular surfaces, and sufficiently loose to permit the necessary range of motion.480 LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. Fig. 110. Besides flexion and extension, the construction of the ankle-joint admits of a very slight lateral movement: but this is only per- mitted in the extended state of the joint. This is useful to us in the direction of our steps. In adaptation to this move- ment the internal malleolus is made much shorter than the outer; it is not so tightly confined by its ligaments, and its articular surface is part of a cylinder. Open the joint to see that the breadth of the articular surfaces of the bones is greater in front than behind. The ob- ject of this is to render the tibia less liable to be dislocated forwards over the astragalus. Whenever this happens, the astragalus must of necessity become firmly locked between the malleoli. The astragalus is the key- co" a Btone of the arch of the foot, THE BONES ^ud supports thewholeweight oFTHEPooT. ^^^^^ articulates with the OS calcis and the os scaphoides in such a manner as to permit the ab- duction and adduction of the foot, so useful in the direction of our steps. The astragalus articulates with the os calcis by two distinct surfaces, respecting which it is necessary to remark, that the anterior is slightly convex, and the posterior slightly concave. This adaptation of itself contributes much to prevent the sepa- ration of the bones. But their principal bond of union Interosseous . strons interosseous ligament which occupies ligament. " j & / i i the interval between them (fig. 110). In the skeleton you observe that the head of the astragalus arti- culates in front with the os scaphoides, but that a part of it is unsupported below. What, then, supports it here in the perfect DIAGEAM OF TKE EXTEHNAX XATE- BAL LIGAMENT. 1. Anterior part. 2. Posterior part. 3. Middle part. 4. Interosseous ligament.LIGAMENTS OK THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. 481 Fig. IIL foot ? An enormously strong and elastic ligament which scaphoid." extends from the os calcis to the os scaphoides (fig. 111). These bones, together with the ligament, form a com- plete socket for the reception of the head of the astragalus; it is this joint, and not the ankle, which permits the abduction and adduc- tion of the foot. The chief peculiarity about the ligament alluded to is its elasticity. It acts in all respects like a spring, and allows to the key-stone of the arch a certain amount of play which is obviously of great service in preventing concussion of the body. Whenever this liga- ment loses its elastic property, as is often the case with those who are in the habit of carrying heavy burdens, the arch of the foot gradually yields, and the individual becomes flat-footed. The OS calcis articulates with the os cuboides pretty nearly on a line with the articulation between the astragalus and the os scaphoides. The bones are most firmly connected by means of a powerful ligament in the sole, called the calcaneo-cuboid, or " ligaraentum longum plantae." Some of its fibres extend forwards as far as the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It would be only tedious repetition to enumerate individually the several ligaments which connect the remaining bones of the tarsus and metatarsus. Let it then suflSce to say, that they are firmly braced together hj very strong ligaments, both on their dorsal and their plantar surfaces, and by interosseous ligaments which extend between their contiguous surfaces, like rivets. Though there is very little motion between any two bones, the collective amount is such that the foot is enabled to adapt itself accurately to the ground; pressure is more equally distributed, aud consequently there is a I I Calcaneo cuboid. 1. Calcaneo-scaphoid li- gament. 2. Calcaneo-cuboid liga- ment. Kg. 112. Intei ossecus ligaments of the wedge bones.482 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES OP THE TARSUS. firmer basis for the support of the body. Being composed, more- over, of several pieces, each of which possesses a certain elasticity, the foot gains a general springiness and solidity which could not have resulted from a single bone. Synovial Exclusive of the ankle-joint and the phalanges of the membranes toes, the bones of the foot are provided with six dis- of the, tarsus. , • i i i tmct synovial membranes, — namely, a. Between the posterior articular surface of the astragalus and OS calcis. b. Between the head of the astragalus and the bones composing its socket. c. Between the os calcis and the os cuboides. d. Between the inner cuneiform bone and the metatarsal bone of the gre9,t toe. e. Between the three cuneiform and the adjoining bones (the great toe excepted). /. Between the os cuboides and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. The phalanges of the toes are connected in all respects like those of the fingers. See, therefore, the description given in the dissec- tion of the hand (p. 282).483 1 I 2 THE DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. The most convenient manner of removing the brain is to cut through the scalp, from one ear to the other, so that the anterior part of the scalp may be detached from the skull and pulled down over the face; the posterior, over the back of the head. The skull- cap should then be taken off about half an inch above the supra- orbital ridges. It is better to saw only through the outer table of the skull, and to break through the inner with a chisel. In this way, the dura mater and the brain are less likely to be injured. Three mem- Previous to the examination of the brain itself you branes of should study the structure and uses of the three mem- the bram. 'bpanes by which it is surrounded, — namely, a tough fibrous membrane termed the " dura mater " ; a serous membrane termed the "arachnoid"; and a very vascular membrane termed the " pia mater." This is the first membrane exposed after the re- moval of the skull-cap. It is so called from the notion that it gave rise to all the other membranes in the body. Its re- markably tough and fibrous structure adapts it exceedingly well to the four purposes which it serves : 1, it forms the internal perios- teum of the skull; 2, it forms, for the support of the lobes of the brain, three partitions, namely the falx cerebri, the falx cerebelli, the tentorium cerebelli: 3, it forms the sinuses or venous canals which return the blood from the brain : 4, it forms sheaths for the nerves as they leave the skull. These arteries ramify between the dura mater and ^erksf'^^ Their course may be traced l)y the grooves which they make in the bones. The most important is the " drteria meningea media," a branch of the internal maxillary484 DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. (p. 71). Entering the skull through the foramen spinosum, it winds along a deep groove in the sphenoid, and the anterior infe- rior angle of the parietal bones, to the top of the skull, giving off branches in all directions. It is accompanied by two veins. The other meningeal arteries are of insignificant size. The anterior come from the ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic ; the postenor come from the occipital, and enter the skull through the foramen jugulare. The position of the meningeal arteries renders them liable to injury in fractures of the skull: hence extravasation of blood be- tween the skull and dura mater is one of the common causes of compression of the brain. Three parti partitions formed by the dura mater for the tions formed by support of the lobes of the brain, two are vertical, dura mater. separate the two hemispheres of the cerebrum and those of the cerebellum; the third is nearly horizontal, and supports the posterior cerebral lobes. The great vertical partition is named, from its Falx cerebri. resemblance to the blade of a sickle, "falx cerebri" It divides the cerebrum into two hemispheres—a right and a left. It begins in a point attached to the crista galli, and gradually penetrates deeper as it extends backwards. From its base or broadest part proceeds the horizontal partition, named " tentorium cerebelli." This forms an arch for the Tentorium support of the posterior cerebral lobes, so that they ^ ' may not press upon the cerebellum beneath them. Observe that the tentorium is attached to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone, to the petrous part of the temporal, and to the posterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid. The little partition which separates the lobes of the cerebellum is called Falx cerebeUi. y^^^ cerebelH." It is placed vertically in the same line with the falx cerebri, and its point is attached to the edge of the foramen magnum. It is one of the peculiarities of the cerebral circulation THE DURA that the blood is returned through canals or smuses formed by the dura mater. These canals are producedSINUSES OF THE DUKA MATER. 485 I I 3 Fig. 113. by a splitting of the dura mater into two layers as shown in fig. 113, where 1, represents a vertical section through the superior longitudinal sinus. They are lined by the same smooth membrane as the rest of the venous system. Since their walls consist of such unyielding structure, and are always on the stretch, it is obvious that they are ad- mirably adapted to resist the pressure of the brain. There ai-e fifteen of these si- nuses; five are pairs, and five are single, as follow:— The five pairs of sinuses are, — The lateral. The superior petrosal. The inferior petrosal. The cayernous. The occipital. The five single sinuses are,— The superior longitudinal. The inferior longitudinal. The circular. The transverse. The straight. All of these eventually discharge their blood into the internal jugular veins. Superior This runs along the longitudinal sinus. (fig. 114). It begins gradually increases in and opposite the tubercle of the right and left lateral sinuses, the right being in general the larger. Besides numerous veins from the cancellous texture of the skull-cap, the superior longitudinal sinus re- ceives large veins from each hemi- sphere of the cerebrum. It is interesting to observe that these veins run from behind forwards, contrary to the current of blood in the sinus, and that they pass through the wall of the sinus very obliquely, like the ureter into the bladder. The probable object of upper edge of the falx cerebri very small at the crista galli, size in its course backwards, occipital bone divides into the Fig. 114. 1. Superior longitudinal sinus. 2. Inferior longitudinal sinus. 3. Str.iiglit sinus. 4. 4. Venae Galeni. this oblique entrance is to pre-480. DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. yent regurgitation of blood from the sinus into the veins of the brain. Cut open the superior longitudinal sinus: observe that it is triangular, and that its cavity is intersected in many places by slender fibrous cords, termed " chordce Willisii."* Their precise use is not understood. In the neighbourhood of the superior longitudinal piccS s^^^^ ^® ^^^^ "^^^^ ^^^^^ granulations, sometimes lying singly, sometimes in clusters. They are termed " glan- dulce Pacchioni,'''\ and are found in three distinct situations: — 1, on the outside of the dura mater, often so large as to occasion depressions in the bones; 2, on the surface of the pia mater; 3, in thfe interior of the longitudinal sinus, covered by its lining membrane. Their size, number, and appearance differ in different subjects. Nothing is determined concerning their precise nature ; but it is presumed that they are morbid products, since they are never observed in very young subjects. These are the two great sinuses through which all the Lateral ^^^^^ ^^^^ t^^^]^ ig returned into the internal jugular sinuses. ^^^.^ course is well marked in the dry skull. The right is commonly the larger. Each proceeds at first horizon- tally outwards, inclosed between the layers of the tentorium, along a gToove in the occipital bone and the inferior angle of the parietal; it then descends along the mastoid portion of the tem- poral bone, and again indenting the occipital, turns forwards to the foramen lacerum posterius, and terminates in the internal jugular ^^^^•^ This is of small size. It terminates in the straight Sdind sS.' sinus at the anterior margin of the tentorium (fig. lU). * So eaUed after our countiTman Willis, who first described them in his work De Cerebri Anatome, 1664. ., i - n^ns Tiioco hndiVi t Aft,er the ItaUan anatomist, who first described them m 170o. Jhese bodies would appear to originate in the subarachnoid cellnlar tissue, whence J. - ^he'r growth, ekher perfoi-ate the dura mater and hoUow out the bones, or make their way into the longitudinal sinus. ., , t It has In some subjects another outlet, through the foramen mastoideum, or else the posterior condyloid foramen.487 SINUSES OF THE DUUA MATER. This may be considered as the continuation of the Straight preceding. It runs along the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebelli, and terminates at the divergence of the two lateral sinuses. It receives the two "venas Galeni" (fig. 114), which return the blood from the lateral ventricles of the brain. Fig. 115. Third nerve . . . . Fourth nerve. . . . Sixth nerve . . . . First branch of the fiah Ophthalmic vein. Carotid artery. C.ivernous sinus. Superior petrosal sinu Inferior petrosal sinus Superior longitudi- nal sinus. DIAGHAM OF THE VENOUSSINUSES A.T THE BASE OP THE SKXJLt. Cavernou '^^^^ ^° Called because its interior is intersected by sinls™°"^ numerous threads. It extends along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, outside the internal carotid artery. It receives the ophthalmic vein which leaves the orbit through the foramen lacerum orbitale; and it communicates with the circular sinus which surrounds the pituitary gland (p. 158). Cirailar This suiTounds the pituitary gland (P in the diagram) 8in«8 and communicates on each side with the cavernous. 114488 DISSECTION or THE BRAIN. These lead from tlie cavernous to the lateral. There Petrosal gg^^j^ g^^jg^ ipj^g supeHov ruBS aloup- the smuses. ■'■ ^ , ° Tipper edge of the petrous bone ; the inferior along the suture between the petrous and the occipital bones. This extends from one inferior petrosal to the other, TrfljDSA'GrsG sinus. across the basilar process of the occipital bone. These are very small. They run round the margin of Occipital ^.j^e foramen magnum, and open into the divergence of smuses. • * the lateral sinuses.* This second investment forms the smooth sm-face of ■Arachnoid ^j^g brain exposed after the removal of the dura mater. It is named " arachnoid " from the delicacy of its tissue, which gives it a resemblance to a spider's web. It is a serous membrane, and,,like all others of the kind, forms a closed sac, one part of which, called the " parietal" layer, lines the under surface of the dura mater ; the other called the " visceral," is reflected over the brain ; this reflection takes place along the nerves which leave the base of the skull. The inner surface of this membrane is perfectly smooth, and lubricated by sufficient moisture to prevent friction, since the brain is alternately rising and falling with a slight pulsating movement caused in part by the action of the heai't, in part by the process of respiration. The parietal layer is of such extreme tenuity that it can only be demonstrated in very early life : indeed, it consists of little more than a layer of epithelium; but the visceral layer is sufficiently obvious. Observe that it is colourless and transparent, and that it is spread uniformly over the surface of the brain, with- out insinuating itself between the convolutions. On account of its extreme tenuity, and its close adhesion to the pia mater, it cannot * The meeting of the several sinuses opposite the spine of the occipital bone is termed the " torcular HeropMU," after the celebrated anatomist who first described it. It is a kind of triangular reservoir, with the base below, and presents six open- ings — namely, that of the superior longitudinal sinus, those of the two lateral and of the two occipital, and that of the straight sinus. The term " torcular" is an incorrect version of the original word awAV (a canal or gutter), employed by Herophilus.489 MEMBRANES OP THE BRAIN. be readily separated from this membrane; but there are certain parts at the base of the brain termed "sub-arachnoid" spaces, where the arachnoid membrane c£^n be seen distinct from the subjacent tunic. This is the immediate investing membrane of the Pid mater. extremely vascular: indeed, its chief use is to form a bed in which the blood-vessels may divide and sub-divide before they enter the brain.* It sinks down to the bottom of all the convolutions, and penetrates into the lateral ventricles for the supply of their interior, forming what is called the " velum inter- positum " and the " choroid plexus." Sub araeli- "^^^ arachnoid membrane is separated in certain noid spaces situations from the pia mater by a watery fluid con- and fluid. Gained in the meshes of very delicate areolar tissue. Such interspaces are termed " sub-arachnoid." There is one of these in the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, because the arachnoid does not go down to the bottom of it, but passes across below the edge of the falx, at a little distance above the corpus callosum. Again, at the base of the brain there are two of con- siderable size:—one, called the "middle sub-arachnoid space," is situated between the pons Varolii and the commissure of the optic nerves ; the other, termed the " posterior," is situated between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. In the examination of the spinal cord, too, it will be seen that there is a considerable interval between the arachnoid and the pia mater, also occupied by fluid. The purpose of this fluid is not only to fill up space like fat in other parts, but mechanically to protect the nervous centres from the violent shocks and vibrations to which they would otherwise be liable. The base of the brain may, in truth, be said to be supported by a bed of water, which insinuates itself into all the inequalities of * It is one of the protectiye provisions of the circulation in the delicate substance of the brain, that the arteries break up into small ramifications on the surface before they penetrate its interior. When ciirefully injected, it is seen that the blood-vessels of the pia mater form minute angidar spaces, from which the vessels pass off at right angles into the brain.490 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the surface, and surrounds all the nerves down to the foramina, through which they pass. One sees this water oozing through the ear, in some cases of fracture through the base of the skull, where the fracture runs across the meatus auditorius internus and the petrous portion of the temporal bone. This symptom is the almost certain presage of a fatal result. Arteries of "^^^ hram is supplied with blood by the two internal the brain, carotid and the two vertebral arteries. This artery enters the skull through' a canal in the caTOtid ^ petrous portion of the temporal bone, mounts up very tortuously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and, after giviag off the ophthalmic, diAddes into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, for the supply of the anterior and middle cerebral lobes. a. The antenor cerebral artery sinks into the longitudinal fis- sure between the hemispheres, curves round the front part of the corpus callosum, and then runs backwards along the upper surface of it. It distributes branches in all directions. The anterior cerebral arteries of opposite sides run close together, and at the base of the brain are connected by a short branch called the " anterior communicating " (fig. 116). h. The middle cerebral artery runs deep in the fissure of Silvius, distributing large branches to the anterior and middle lobes. This artery, after winding backwards along the arch Vertebral atlas, enters the skull through the foramen maer- artery. ' _ ° o num, and unites with its fellow at the lower border of the pons to form the " basilar^ ' This single vessel proceeds along the middle of the pons, and divides at the upper border of it into the two posterior cerebral arteries for the supply of the pos-r terior cerebral lobes (fig. 116). In its course along the pons, the basilar gives off on either side — a. The little auditory artery, which enters the meatus audi- torius with the auditory nerve. h. The superior and inferior cerebellar arteries, for the supply of the upper and lower surfaces of the cerebellum.491 CIKCLE OF WILLIS. c. The tvio:posterior cerebral - the terminal branches (fig. 116) — run backwards, one on the under surface of each posterior cere- bral lobe, dividing into numerous branches, which ultimately in- osculate with the other cerebral arteries. But the principal inos- Fig. 116. Bulb cf olfactory nprvc Second pair or optic nerve Locus perforatus anticu: Tractus opticus . . Crus cerebri . . . Third pair of nerves Fourtii pair of nerves Fiftli pair of nerves . Sixth pair of nerves. Pyramid ... Olive Vertebral artery , Anterior spinal a. Anterior cerebral a. Lamina cinerea. Middle cerebral a. Tuber cinereum. Mammillary body. Locus perforatus medius Posterior cerebral a. Superior cerebellar a. Pons Varolii. Inferior cerebellar a. Seventh pair of nerves. Eighth pair of netves. Ninth pair of nerves. Cerebellum. culating branch of the posterior cerebral is called the posterior communicating." It proceeds straight forwards to the internal carotid, and thus establishes at the base of the brain that free inos- culation of the large arteries called the " circle of Willis"492 DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. The circle of Willis, as seen in fig. 116, is completed (circle of • x> J. I, J.1 , . . . ■'■ Willis. iront, by tlie anterior communicating artery (between the two anterior cerebral); behind by the posterior communicating (from the posterior cerebral to the carotid). The tortuosity of the large arteries before t^ey enter the brain is in- tended to mitigate the force of the heart's action; and the circle of Willis provides a free supply of blood from other quarters, in case any accidental circumstance should stop the flow of blood in any of the more direct channels.* PecuUarities ^^sides the remarkable " circle of Willis " just al- of the cere- luded to, we have other peculiarities in the circulation br^circula- ^he brain: namely; the tortuosity of the four great vessels as they enter the skull — their breaking up into minute arteries in the pia mater before they enter the sub- stance of the brain — the formation of the sinuses, p. 485 the great minuteness of the capillaries, and the extreme thinness of their walls; a fact which accounts for the slowness with which a congested brain recovers itself. Genebai '^^^ collective mass of nervous matter, designated DIVISION OF under the common term brain, is divided into three THE BEAiN. partg — ci cerebrum,'^ or intellectual brain, which occupies the whole of the upper part of the cranial cavity; the " cerebellum," or little brain, which occupies the lower and back part beneath the tentorium ; and the " medulla oblongata,^'' situated at the base beneath the cerebellum. This last part passes out of the skull through the foramen magnum, and is continuous with the spinal cord. * In many of the long-necked herbivorous quadrupeds a beautiful provision has been made, in the disposition of the internal carotid arteries, for the purpose of equalising the force of the blood supplied to the brain. The arteries, as they enter the skull, divide into several branches, which again unite, so as to form a remarkable net-work of arteries, called by Galen, who fh-st described it, the " rete mirabUe." The object of this evidently is to moderate the rapidity with which the blood would other- wise enter the cranium, in the diiferent positions of the head, and thus preserve the brain from those sudden influxions to which it would under other circumstances be continually exposed.LOBES OF THE CEREBRUM. 493 ^ ^ The cerebrum, in man, is so much more developed than the other parts of the brain, that it completely overlays them. It is of an oval form. It is divided, in the middle line, by a deep " longitudinal fissure," into two equal halves, termed the right and left Bemispheres.* This fissure is occupied by the falx cerebri (p. 484), The surface of each hemisphere is mapped out by tortuous eminences, termed " the convolutions," which are separated from each other by deep furrows. Many of these furrows are occupied by the larger veins in their course to the sinuses; others are filled by sub-arachnoid fluid. In old age, or in cases of disease where the convolutions are shrunk and atrophied, this fluid sometimes accumulates in considerable quantity. The convolutions themselves are merely folds of the brain for the purpose of increasing the extent of surface upon which may be laid the grey or vesicular nerve substance, now generally admitted to be the source of power. They are not precisely alike on both sides. Their number, disposition, and depth, vary a little in different individuals, and, to a certain extent, may be considered as an index of the degree of intelligence.! The under surface of each cerebral hemisphere is not only con- voluted like the upper, but presents in addition three lobes (fig. 117), an anterior middle and posterior, which fit into the base of the skuU. The anterior lobe rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by a cleft called the "fissure of Sylvius," which receives the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. The middle lobe occupies the middle fossa of the skull formed * Examples are now and then met witli where the longitudinal fissure is not exactly in the middle line; the consequence of which want of symmetry is, that one hemi- sphere is larger than the other. Biehat (Eecherches Physiologiques sur la Vie et la Mort, Paris, 1829) was of opinion that this anomaly exercised a deleterious influence on the intellect. It is a remarkable fact that the examination of his own brain after death, went to prove the error of his own doctrine. t Those who wish to investigate the cerebral convolutions in their simplest form in the lower classes of mammalia, and to trace them through their successive compHca- tions and aiTangement into groups as we ascend in the higher classes, should consult M. Leuret, Anatomie Comparde du Systfeme Nei-veux consideree dans ses Eapports avec rintelligence: Paris, 1839; also M. FoviUe, Traits de I'Anat. du Systfeme Ner- veux, &c.: Paris, 1844.DISSECTION OF THE BKAIN. 494 Fig. 117. I, 2, 3. Anterior, middle, and poste. rior lobes of the cerebrum. 4. Cerebellum. 5. Pons Varolii. 6. Medulla oblongata. by the sphenoid and temporal bones. The posterior lobe rests on the arch of the tentorium. Between this and the middle there is no evident boundary; indeed some anatomists, among whom may be mentioned the illustrious Haller, enu- merate only two lobes. By separating the middle from the an- terior lobe, we see, deep in the fissure of Sylvius, what is called the "^island of Beil" It is merely a portion of the under surface of the hemisphere, mapped out by small and deep convolutions, which dove-tail with those adjoining. It corresponds with the under surface of the corpus striatum, and might, therefore, be called the lobe of that ganglion. We must now notice the several objects seen at S°thrpartrat the base of the brain in the middle line, proceeding the base of jQ order from the back part (fig. 116, p. 491). In the bram. ^^.^ description we omit the cerebral nerves. These will be examined hereafter. Immediately above the medulla oblongata is a square protu- berance called the " Pons Varolii" This is a transverse commis- sure which connects the two lobes of the cerebellum, and lies over the basilar groove of the occipital bone. From the anterior border of the pons two round cords of nervous matter, about half an inch thick, diverge from each other,—one towards each hemisphere of the cerebrum. These are the " crura cerebri." Winding round the outer side of each crus is a white band—the "tractus opticus," or root of the • optic nerve. These tracts converge, and uniting in the middle line, constitute the commissure of the optic nerves. Between the crura cerebri the surface is perforated by a number of blood-vessels ; hence this spot is called the " locus per- foratus medius,"—medius, as contra-distinguished from another part of the brain's base presenting siniilar perforations, situated at the root of the fissure of Sylvius, and caUed the " locus perforatus495 WHITE AND GREY SUBSTANCE. anticus.''* In front of the locus perforatus medius are two round white bodies, called the " corpora mamviillaria or alhicantia: " in front of these is a simple elevation of the surface, consisting of grey matter, called the " tuber cinereum," upon which the com- missure of the optic nerves seems, as it were, to ride. From the tuber cinereum, and just behind the optic commissure, a conical tube, of a reddish colour, termed the " infundibulum" descends to the pituitary gland which occupies the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. In front of the optic commissure the tuber cinereum is continued forwards under the form of a thin grey layer {lamina cinerea) so as to join the anterior end of the corpus callosum. Now these several objects—namely, the locus perforatus medius, mammillary bodies, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, optic commis- sure, and lamina cinerea—collectively constitute the floor of the thii-d ventricle of the brain. Lastly, by gently separating the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, we see the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum, or great transverse commissure which connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. Examination brain be laid upon its base. We have already of the inte- noticed that the hemispheres of the cerebrum are di- vided by a deep longitudinal fissure. By gently sepa- rating the hemispheres, we observe at the bottom of this fissure a white band of nervous matter: this is the great transverse com- missure of the cerebrum, termed " corpus callosum." White a ^^^'^^ hemispheres doAvn to the level of the grey matter. ^'^^P^^^ callosum.f The ' cut surface presents a mass of white substance surrounded by an undulating layer of grey matter of about one-eighth of an inch thick. Since this grey matter forms a sort of bark round the white, it is often called the * The large number of arteries which enter the brain in these respective situations are destined to supply the two great masses of grey matter in the interior — namely the optic thalamus and the corpus striatum. The former con-esponds with the locus perforatus medius, the latter with the locus perforatus anticus. t The section of the brain at the level of the corpus caUosum was caUed by the old anatomists "centrum ovale majus : " at a higher level, the section was called ceu- trum ovale minus.DISSECTION or THE BRAIN. 496 cortical substance.* Notice the depth of the furrows between the convolutions : they penetrate generally to about one inch; but their depth varies in different individuals: hence it follows that two brains of apparently equal size may be very unequal in point of extent of surface for .the grey matter, and therefore in amount of power. To the unassisted eye the cortical layer appears to be made up entirely of grey substance; but with the microscope it may be seen to consist of six layers,—three of grey alternating with three of white.f This transverse portion of white substance is the chief Corpus connecting medium between the two hemispheres.^: It is ca osum. ^^^j^^ ^^^^^ commissure of the cerebrum. Observe that it is about four inches long, and nearer to the front than to the back part of the brain. Its surface is not flat, but slightly * There are two kuids of nervous matter - the grey or resicular, and the white or fibrous The grey is exceedingly vascular, and contains the nerve-vesicles, which are generaUy aHowed to be the source of power. The white consists of extremely deUcate nerve fibres, is scantily provided with blood-vessels, and is probably the mere con- ductor of power. The intense vascularity of the grey matter has been demonstrated by Mr. Quekett and Mr Smee, who have had the kindness to aUow the author to inspect their beau- tiful preparations. Mr. Smee's injections were made by using a solution of carmine in ammonia mixed with size. The minute arteries enter the surface of the grey matter, and break up in it into a network of fine capillaries. These capillaries are peculiar m being quite naked, and not supported, as in other pai-ts, by ceUular tissue. Hence it is they are so liable to give way, and allow their contents to escape: hence it is, they are fenced round by so many provisions calculated to break the force of the current of the blood-namely, the tortuosities of the arteries at the base of the bram, their sub- divisions in the pia mater, and the peculiar arrangement of the sinuses. t These six layers cannot always be demonstrated. Sometimes there are only four, and they are commonly more manifest in the posterior lobes. The externa layer is always white. For an account of them, and the best mode of examimug them, see BaiUarget, Eecherches sur la Structure de la Couche Corticale des Cii-convolutions du Cerveau, insirees dans les M^moires de I'Academie de M-^decme, 1840. t In a brain properly hardened by spirit, the fibres may be traced coTOt ng towards the corpus callosum from both hemispheres : hence they were caUed by Gall the converging fibres of the brain. This anatomist applied the above name to all com- missural fibres. Those fibres, on the other hand, which ascended from the medulla oblongata into the hemispheres, he named the diverging. Anat. et Physiol, du bys- t&meNerv.: Paris. 1810.497 CORPUS CALLOSUM. arched from before backwards. One or more longitudinal ridges, called by the old anatomists the "raphe" run along the middle of it (fig. 118). In a fresh brain we can evidently see the transverse fibres, of which the commissure is composed, extending between the hemispheres; these are the " linece transversca" of the old anatomists. Notice also the anterior cerebral arteries. The anterior part of the corpus callosum turns downwards and backwards, forming a bend called its knee, towards the base of the Fig. 118. UPPEE■ STJBFACB OF COE- Peduncles of corpus callosum. PUS CALLOSUM. ^- I"™'"" cinerea. 3. Commissure of optic nerves. 1, I. Linese transversaa. 2, Raphe. 3, 3. Anterior cerebral a. brain. It becomes gradually thinner, and terminates in two peduncles, which diverge from each other, and are lost, one in each fissure of Sylvius. Between these crura is placed the lamina cinerea (fig. 119). The posterior part of the corpus callosum terminates in a thick round border, under which the pia mater enters into the interior of the ventricles. We cannot obtain a satisfactory view of the arch formed by the corpus callosum, of its terminations in front and behind, and of the relative thickness of K K.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN, 498 its different parts, without making a perpendicular section through a fresh brain, as shown in diagram 120.* In the next place examine the two cavities called the Lateral lateral ventricles, situated, one in each hemisphere of ventricles. ' a t t i the bram, beneath the corpus callosum. A longitudmal incision should be made on each side, about half an inch from the rig. 120. Foramen of Mom o . Middle commissure . Anterior commissure Lamina cinerea . . Optic nerve . . . Pituitary gland Infundibulum Tuber cinereum Corpus mammillarii Locus perforatus raedius Velum interpositum. Thalamus opticus. Pineal gland. Posterior commissure Nates. Iter a tertio ad quar turn ventriculura. Valve of Vieussens. Fourth ventricle. Pons Varolii Arachnoid membran (reflected). Medulla oblongata •VHBTICAL SECTION THEOUGH THE COEPtJS CALLOSUM, AND PARTS BELOW. raphe of the corpus callosum. Be careful not to cut too near the middle line, in order to preserve the delicate partition which descends from the under surface of the corpus callosum, and sepa- * The corpus caUosum is more or less developed in aU mammalia, tut is absent in birds, reptiles, and fish. It is not absolutely essential to the exercise of the inteUect, for it has been found absent in the human subject without any particular intellectual deficiency. See cases recorded by Eeil, Ai-chiv. fiir die Phys. t. xi.; and Wenzel, de plenitior Struct. Cereb, p. 302.LATERAL VENTRICLES. 499 K K 2 rates the ventricles from ecacli other. We soon come into these Ccavities, and, by means of a director, they should be fully laid open. Notice their general form, and then the several objects to be seen in them. The lateral ventricles are two cavities in the general What are j^^ss of the brain, occasioned by the enormous enlarge- tliey ? I/O ment and folding backward of the cerebral lobes over the other parts of the central nervous axis. They contain a serous fluid, which, even in a healthy brain, sometimes exists in consider- able quantity, but, when preternaturally accumulated, constitutes one form of the disease termed hydrocephalus. The very delicate lining membrane which secretes this fluid is quite distinct from the arachnoid on the outside of the brain, and the epithelium on the surface of it is provided with cilia, of which the vibratile movement may be distinctly seen, especially in the embryo. With regard to the general shape of the ventricles, they may be compared to two crescents with, their backs to each other. Each ventricle extends into the three lobes of which the cerebral hemi- sphere is composed. That part which extends into the anterior lobe is called the anterior horn; it slightly diverges from its fellow on the opposite side. The "posterior horn may be traced into the posterior lobe; this converges to its fellow.* The middle horn runs into the middle lobe, descends towards the base of the brain making a very curious curve like a ram's horn,—that is, in a direction backwards, outwards, dovmwards, forwards, and inwards; the initial letters of which make the memorial word " bodfi." We can easily follow its windings by cutting through the substance of the middle lobe. ^, Suppose the roof of the lateral ventricles—in other VVnat they | contain. words the corpus callosum—to be removed, what have * The posterior horns are not always equally developed in both hemispheres, and sometimes they are absent in one or in both. They are only found in the brain of man and the quadrumana. In the carnivora, ruminantia, solipeda, pachydermata, and rodentia, the lateral ventricles are prolonged into the largely developed olfactory lobes. This is the case in the human fcetus only at an early period.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 500 we to remark on the floor of tlieir interior ? Beginning from the front we notice — 1, a grey elevation of a pyramidal form, called the corpus striatum; 2, behind this, a white elevation called the thcdamus opticus. 3. Along the boundary line between the corpus striatum and the thalamus opticus runs a slender, transparent, horn-like substance, called the tcenia semicircularis. 4. On the back part of the thalamus opticus lies a red fringe called the choroid plexus. It is formed by folds of the pia mater con- Kg. 121. 1. Corpus callosum. 2. Lateral ventricle. is. Third ventricle. 4. Corpus striatum. 5. Thalamus opticus 6. Corpus mammil- lare. 7. Choroid plexus. 8. Fornix. 9. Pituitary gland. TBANSTEBSE PBEPENDICTJIiAE SECTION THEOUGH THE BKAIN. tinned into the ventricles. 5. Immediately behind, and nearly parallel with the choroid plexus, lies the thin free border of the fornix. 6. In the middle or descending horn, the choroid plexus runs down to the base of the brain; and there is also a columnar eminence which stands out in relief on the back part of the cavity; to this the fanciful term " hippocampus major " has been applied.* 7. In the posterior horn there is a smaller elevation of the surface called the " hippocampus minor." These hippocampal elevations * The lower end of tlie hippocampus major is somewhat expanded and indented on the siirface, so as to resemble the paw of an animal. Hence the name giren to it, "27CS hippocampi."LATERAL VENTRICLES. 501 K K 3 are nothing more than deep convolutions which project into the ventricles. By cutting through the white matter on their surface we soon come to the cortical substance of the brain. If a perpendicular section were made across the perpcn-^ middle of the brain, the lateral ventricles would appear dicularsec- ^s represented in fig. 121. Together with the third or middle ventricle, their shape slightly resembles the letter T. Such a section shows well the radiating fibres of the corpus callosum, the fornix, and the velum interpositum beneath it: also the bee'innincf of the .transverse fissure at the base of the o o brain, between the crus cerebri and the middle lobe. Having learned the names of the parts in the lateral ventricles, now consider them a little more in detail, and also the transparent septum (septum lucidum) by which the two lateral ventricles are separated. The corpus striatum is so called, because, when cut rtriatan. it presents alternate layers of white and grey . matter.* It is a much larger mass of grey substance than it appears to be, for only a portion of it projects into the ventricle, cropping out on the surface. What we do see of it looks pear-shaped, with the large end forwards : it tapers gradually to a point as we trace it backwards on the outside of the optic thalamus (p. 507). The under part of the corpus striatum corresponds with the convolution at the base of the brain known as the island of Eeil, and also with the locus perforatus anticus, — a spot, we remember, at the root of the fissure of Sylvius, so called on account of the number and size of the blood-vessels which pass in there to supply the mass of grey matter in question. This is a narrow semi-transparent band of white circulari™ fibres, which skirts the posterior border of the corpus striatum, fig. 123. In front it is connected with the * The white lines in the corpus striatum are produced by the fibres of the crus cerebri, which traverse this mass of grey matter before they expand to form the hemi- sphere. The grey matter itself is sometimes called the anterior cerebral ganglion. It is found in all mammalia, in birds, and, to a certain extent, in reptiles. Its precise function is still unknown.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 502 anterior crus of the fornix; behind, it is lost in the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. This is a thin and almost transparent partition, which hi^idum. descends vertically in the middle line from the under surface of the corpus callosum, and separates the anterior part of the lateral ventricles from each other. What are its at- tachments ? Above, to the corpus callosum ; below, to the reflected part of the corpus callosum and the fornix, p. 498. It is not of equal depth throughout. The broadest part is in front, and cor- responds with the knee of the corpus callosum. It grows narrower behind, and altogether disappears where the corpus callosum and the fornix become continuous. Thin as it is, yet the septum con- sists of two layers which inclose a space called the " fifth ven- tricle " (fig. 1?2). Each layer is made up of white substance inside, and of gre}- outside; the little ventricle between them is closed in the adult, and lined by a delicate serous membrane, which secretes in it a minute quantity of fluid ; but in foetal life it communicates with the third ventricle between the pillars of the fornix.* Now cut transversely through the corpus callosum and the septum lucidum, and turn forwards the anterior half. In this way the ventricle of the septum will appear as in fig. 122. By turning back the posterior half of the corpus callosum we obtain a view of the fornix. This proceeding requires care, or the fornix will be reflected also, since these two arches of nervous matter are here so closely connected. This, as implied by its name, is a layer of white matter Fornix. arranged in the form of an arch from before backwards, beneath the corpus callosum. It is the great longitudinal com- missure and lies over the velum (fig. 120, p. 498). Viewed from its upper surface it is triangular, with the base behind, as shown in diagram 122. The broad part is connected to the corpus callosum. From its anterior narrow part proceed two round white cords, * The development of the septum lucidum commences about the fifth month of foetal life, and proceeds from before backwards pari passu with the corpus callosum and fornix.LATERAL VENTRICLES. 503 K K 4 called its auterior crura, — one on either side the mesial line. They do not extend so far forwards as the corpus callosum, but turn downwards to the base of the brain, where they may be traced, one into each of the corpora mammillaria (fig. 120). Immediately behind and below the anterior crura there is a passage through which the choroid plexuses of opposite sides are con- Momo.^^ °^ tinuous with each other. This aperture is called the "■foramen of Mom^o." * Strictly speaking, it is not a foramen, but only a communication existing between the two lateral and the third ventricles. Look at the posterior part of the fornix, and observe that from each angle of the base is continued a thin white band, which runs along, and is intimately connected ^vith, the concave side of the hippocampus major: to this band the name of "tcenia hippocampi" is applied; it is sometimes called the posterior crus of the fornix.| * Monro, " Microscopic Enquiries into the Nerves and Brain." Edinburgli, 1780. t The fornix and septum lucidum are absent in fish; they ai'e merely rxidimeutai-y504 DISSECTION or THE BRAIN. Reflect the fornix in order to expose the " velum in- Vehini inter- j? i . , • mi • • positiim and terpositum, which supports it. This is a portion of the plexus*^ pia mater which penetrates into the ventricles through the fissure beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, as shown p. 498.* The shape of this vascular veil is like that of the fornix itself, and its borders are rolled up so as to form the red fringe called the " choroid plexus" These plexuses consist almost entirely of the tortuous ramifications of minute arteries.f In front they communicate uninterruptedly with each other through the foramen of Monro; behind they descend with the middle horns of the lateral ventricles, and become continuous with the pia mater at the base of the brain, between the middle lobe of the cerebrum and the crus cerebri. Down the Gal^i. Gentry of the veil run two large veins called " vence Ocdeni," which return the blood from the ventricles into the straight sinus. The velum interpositum, with the choroid plexus, must now be reflected to expose the following parts shown in diagram 123.— 1. We have a full view of the thalamus opticus. 2. Between the thalami optici is the " third ventricle of the brain,^^ a deep vertical fissure, precisely in the middle line. 3. Behind the fissure is the '^pineal gland," a vascular body, about the size of a pea. From the gland you trace forwards two slender white cords, called its " peduncles," — one along the inner side of each optic thalamus. 4. Immediately behind the pineal gland are four elevations, two on each side, called the "corpora quadrigemina" or "nates and testes." 5. These bodies are connected to the cerebellum by two in reptiles and bii-ds : bnt all mammalia have them in greater or less perfection, acr cording to the degree of development of the cerebral hemispheres. * The great iissure beneath the corpus caUosum, where the pia mater enters the ventricles, is called the " transverse fissure" or the " fissure of Bichat." It extends do-wnwards on each side to the base of the brain, and terminates between the eras cerebri and thS middle lobe. Taken as a whole, it has a horse-shoe shape, with the concavity forwards. t In preparations where the choroid plexus is well injected, wo see that they are covered with beautiful vascular vilH. The viUi themselves are covered with epi- thelium.THIRD VENTEICLE.—COMMISSURES. 505 flat bands, one on each side, termed the " processus a cerehello ad testes." 6. Between these bands extends a thin layer of grey substance, called the " valve of Vieussens," beneath which lies the fourth ventricle. Lastly, there are three commissures, anterior, middle, and posterior, connecting the opposite sides of the brain. This is the square elevation seen on the floor of the opticu™ lateral ventricle immediately behind the corpus striatum. Though white on the surface, its interior consists of alternate layers of white and grey matter, like the corpus striatum.* The under surface of the thalamus forms the roof of the descendiner or middle horn of the lateral ventricle. Beneath the posterior part of the thalamus are two small eminences^ termed the " corpus geniculatum internum, and externum."'f ^ This is the narrow fissure which exists between the ventricle, optic thalami, and reaches down to the base of the brain. Its boundaries are rather complicated:—The roof is formed by the velum interpositum ; the floor by certain parts at the base of the brain—namely, the locus perforatus medius, corpora mammillaria, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina cinerea: all of which are best seen in a vertical section, as shown p. 498. In front it is bounded by the anterior crura of the fornix; behind, it communicates with the fourth ventricle through the " iter a tertio ad quartum ventri- culum; " a long canal beneath the corpora quadrigemina. Commissures. gently Separate the optic thalami in a fresh brain, you see that they are connected by a transverse *• The elevation called the optic thalamus is occasioned by the interposition of a quantity of grey matter among the fibres of the crus cerebri. Gall termed it the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum, in opposition to the corpus striatiun, which he termed the superior ganglion (Anat. et Phys. du Systfeme Nerv.: Paris, 1810). The epithet " optic " applied to the thalamus might lead us to suppose that it'presides over vision ; but that it exercises very little influence over sight is rendered probable by comparative anatomy, by experimental physiology, and by pathology. t The slight eminences, termed " coiyora ffenicula/a," are produced by small accu- mulations of gi-ey matter beneath the surface. A narrow band of white matter con- nects the external one with the nates, and a similar band connects the intorn^il one with the testes. These bands are faintly marked in man, but more apparent in the lower animals.506 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. layer of grey matter about half an inch in breadth. This is the Middle mid-die commissure: it is sometimes called the soft, on account of its delicate consistence: in most brains it is generally torn before we have the opportimity of examining it,* The optic thalami are also connected by a round white cord, called ^ ^ . the posterior commissure. It is situated immediately in Posterior. r r front of, and rather below the pineal gland. The corpora striata are connected by a round white cord, called the anterior commissure : it lies immediately in front of the anterior crura of the fornix. If this commissure were traced throughout, we should find that it extends transversely through the corpus striatum of each side; then arching backwards, its fibres are lost near the surface of the middle cerebral lobe. ^. I I T^iis '^^ry vascular heart-shaped body, is situated immediately in front of the corpora quadrigemina. It is wrapped up in the velum. It has two white peduncles or crura, which extend forwards, one on the inner side of each optic thala- mus, and terminate by joining the crura of the fornix. In its interior is some gritty matter, consisting of phosphate of lime. Although the pineal gland is found in all mammalia, birds, and reptiles, in the same typical position, its functions are entirely unknown. These are fovir eminences, situated, two on each side, Tubercula behind the pineal gland. Though white on the sur- quadrigemma. , . ,, • , n • , ■ j_i • face, they contain grey matter m the interior: this grey matter is accumulated here for the purpose of giving origin to the optic nerves. A more appropriate term for them would be the " optic lobes," instead of the vulgar name of " nates and testes," handed down from the old anatomists.f * The soft commissure does act appear to be a veiy essential constituent part of the brain. It is not found before the ninth month of foetal life; and in some instances, according to our observation, is never developed. The brothers Wenzel state that it is absent about once in seven subjects (De plenitiori Struct. Cerebri Horn, et Brut. Tubingen, 1812). t Eminences homologous to the corpora quadrigemina are found in all vertebrate animals: they are the meso-cephalic lobes; tlicy invariably give origin to the optic507 TUBERCULA QUADKIGEMINA. Bv o-entlv drawingr back the overlapping cerebellum Processus a -"J & J 7 , . -, i • i i i i • cerebeUo we observe two broad white cords, which pass backwards, ad testes. (iiyerging from each other, from the corpora qiiadi-ige- mina to the cerebellum (fig. 123). These are the "superior crura Fig. 123. Corpus callosum cut through . . Ventricle of the septum lucidum . Corpus striatum Anterior crura of the fornix . . Anterior commissure Taenia semicircularis Middle commissure ...... Thalamus opticus Crura of pineal gland Posterior commissure Pineal gland Nates Testes : • • • Valve of Vieussens Processus a cerebeUo ad testes, . £ B E of the cerebellum." They connect the cerebrum and the cerebellum. The space between them is occupied by a thin layer of grey matter nerves, and their size bears a direct relation to the power of sight. They are relatively smaller in man than in any other animal. In birds there are only two eminences, and these are very large, especially in those far-seeing birds which fly high, as the eagle, falcon, vulture, &c., who require acute sight to discern their prey at a distance.DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 508 wliich covers the fourth ventricle. This layer is called the valve of Vieussens. The fourth nerve arises from it by several filaments. Iter a tcrtio third ventricle is connected with the fourth by ad quartum means of a canal large enough to admit a probe, ^ ■ which runs backwards beneath the posterior commissure and the corpora quadrigemina (p. 498). This passage together with the third and fourth ventricle, are persistent parts of the central canal, which, in early foetal life, extended all down the back of the spinal cord. This cavity is situated between the cerebellum and the Fom-tli posterior part of the mediilla oblongata, and pons Varolii. ventricle. i Jr & ' x- It is only a dilated portion of the primordial canal alluded to in the last paragraph. To obtain a perfect view of its boundaries you should mal^e a vertical section as in diagram p. 498. It appears triangular: its boundaries are as follow: — The front or base is formed by the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii; the upper wall by the valve of Vieussens; the posterior wall by the cerebellum itself, and the continuation of the arachnoid membrane on to the back of the spinal cord. The pia mater is prolonged for a short distance into the lower part of the cavity, and forms the " choroid plexus of the fom-th ventricle." * On the anterior wall of the fourth ventricle, — that is. Calamus ^j^g back of the medulla oblongata and pons,— are scnptorius. ° '■ several objects to be noticed (p. 514). 1. A median furrow, the remains of the primitive axis canal. 2. From the lower part of the furrow two white cords (the restiform columns or infe- rior crura cerebelli) pass off from the medulla oblongata, diverging like the branches of the letter V, and enter the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The divergence of these cords with the median furrow was called by the old anatomists the " calamus scriptonus." 3. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by grey matter, which is nothing more than the grey substance of the medulla exposed by * Tiedemann proposes to call the fourth ventricle the first; because, in the foetus, it is formed sooner than any of the others; because it exists in all vertebrated animals, whereas the lateral ventricles are absent in all osseous fishes ; and because the ventricle of the septum hicidum is absent in all fishes, in reptiles, and in birds.509 CEREBELLUM. the divergence of its posterior or restiform cohimns. On its sm- face we remark a number of transverse white lines, some of which form part of the origin of the auditory nerves. This portion of the brain is situated in the occipital fossa, beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its form is elliptical, with the broad diameter transverse. When the arachnoid membrane and the pia mater are removed, you observe that its sm-face is not arranged in convolutions like those of the cerebrum. It is laid out upon a plan beautifully adapted to produce a much greater superficial extent of grey matter. It consists, in fact, of a multitude of thin plates, disposed in a series of concentric curves, with the concavity forwards. By a little careful dissection it is easy to separate some of the plates from each other, and to see that the intervening- fissures increase in depth from the centre towards the circumference of the cerebellum. The fissure at the circumference itself is the deepest of all, and nearly horizontal, so that it seems to divide the cerebellum into an upper and a lower segment. ^ ^ The upper surface of the cerebellum slopes on Upper siixface. i ■ i ti i p each side like the roof of a house. The ridge along the middle line is called the "superior vermiform eminence." Comparative anatomy proves that this is really the fundamental part of the cerebellum. The sides, called the " hemispheres,'" are merely offsets or wings, superadded for special purposes, and in- crease in size as we ascend in the vertebrate series, till in man they form by far the largest part of the organ. They are separated poste- riorly by a perpendicular fissure, which receives the " falx cerebelli." Under surface under Surface of the cerebellum its division into two hemispheres is clearly perceptible. The deep furrow between them is called "the valley." The front-part of it is occupied by the medulla oblongata. Therefore, to examine the surface of the valley, you must raise the medulla and separate the hemispheres from each other. Along the middle line of the valley, we observe the " inferior vermiform eminence/' which is, in point of fact, the under surface of the fundamental part of the510 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. cerebellum. Traced forwards, this eminence terminates in a tongue-like body, called the "uvula;"* traced backwards, it ter- minates in a small conical projection, called the '^pyramid." Each hemisphere presents on its under surface certain secondary lobes, to which fanciful names have been applied. That portion which immediately overlays the side of the medulla oblongata is called the " tonsil" (amygdala) : at the anterior part of each hemisphere, near the middle line, is a little lobe called the " floc- culus," or pneumo-gastric lobe. Appearance examine the internal structure of the cerebellum, of the a longitudinal section should be made through the interior. thickest part of one of the hemispheres. There is then seen in the centre a large nucleus of white matter, from which branches radiate into the grey substance in all directions. Each of these branches corresponds to one of the plates of the cere- bellum, and from it other smaller branches proceed and again subdivide. This racemose appearance of the white matter in the substance of the grey has been likened to the branches of a tree deprived of its leaves, and is generally known as the " arbor vitce," it is a beautiful contrivance for bringing an extensive surface of the two kinds of nervous matter into connection with each other. In the centre of the white nucleus of each hemi- Corpus rhom- , . , . -i i i • t boideum. sphere IS an oval space, circumscribed by a zigzag ime of grey matter. To this the name " corpus dentatum or rhomboideum " has been given. It is displayed both by a vertical and by a horizontal section. The cerebellum is connected with the cerebro- Connections of gpi^^l axis as follows : — With the medulla oblongata, cerebelluin. „ . „ p by means of the restiform or sensory tracts oi nervous matter: these are called its inferior crura; — with the cerebrum, by means of the processus a cerebello ad testes : these are called its superior crura. The transverse fibres of the pons constitute the middle crura. * From either side of tlie uvula may be traced a tbin valve-like fold of wHte sub- stance, whicb proceeds in a semicirqular direction to the little •pneumogastric lobes. These folds are called the semicircular valves, or " valves of Tarim," by whom they wero fii'st pointed out. (Advers. Anat. prima: Paris, 1750.)MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 511 Eespecting the function of the cerebellum, the ai-gu- Functiou. xaents furniwhed by comparative anatomy render pro- bable that it is a co-ordinator of muscular movements, — e. g. in the action of walking, flying, swimming, &c. -P, This convex eminence (p. 491), is situated at the Pons v^uioLn , ^\ OR TOTER AN- base of the brain, immediately above the medulla NULABE. oblongata. It corresponds with the basilar groove of the occipital bone. In its antero-posterior diameter it measures rather more than one inch. Down the middle runs a furrow which lodges the basilar artery. If the pia mater be carefully removed, we see that its fibres proceed transversely from one hemi- commissiu-e sphere of the cerebellum to the other: hence it is called of the cere- i]^q commissure of the cerebellar lobes. Throughout the bellnm. ,. . . , . . mammalia its size bears a direct ratio to the decree of o development of these lobes; therefore it is larger in man than in any other animal.* Understand that only the superficial fibres are transverse; if these be tm'ned off, we see that the anterior fibres of the medulla run under them at right angles into the crura cerebri, like a river under a bridge. Besides the transverse and longitudinal fibres just described, the pons contains grey matter which probably gives origin to fresh nerve-fibres; so that it appears reasonable to consider the pons a source, as well as a mere conductor of power. Medulla This term is applied to that part of the cerebro-spinal OBLONGATA. ^^^^ which follows immediately below the pons Varolii^ and is continuous with the spinal cord. It is one of the most important divisions of the nervous system. It is not only the highroad for nerves to and from the brain, but it contains the nerve centres which preside over respiration, deglutition, and speech. It is sometimes called the " vital knot." Injury to the medulla oblongata is immediately fatal. It is about an inch and a quarter long. It lies above the basilar groove of the occipital bone; and descends obliquely backwards to the foramen magnum, * Birds, reptUes, and fishes, have no pons, because there are no lateral lobes to the cerebellum.512 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. where the spinal cord begins. Its posterior surface is received into the fossa between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its form is pyramidal with the thickest part above; from thence it gradually tapers into the spinal cord. The anterior surface of the medulla oblongata presents a deep median fissure continuous with that of the cord (fig. 124). Below the pons Varolii this fissure terminates in a cul-de-sac, named the "foramen ccecum:" it is occupied by a Anterior aspect. Fig. 124. p. V. Pons Varolii. P. Anterior pyramid O. Olive. K. Restiform tract. 1. Gasserlan ganglion. 2. Motor root of the fifth n. 3. Third n. 4. Arciform fibres. 5. Sensitive root of the fifth n. 6. Sixth n. 7. Two divisions of the seventh n. 8. Three divisions of the eighth n. 9. Ninth or hypoglos- sal n. DIAGEAM OF THE FRONT SUEFACiB OF THE MEDUXXA OBLONGATA. fold of pia mater. On each side of the fissure there stand out in relief three longitudinal columns. The middle ones are called the " anterior 'pyramids.'" External to these are the " olives:' Still more external, and towards the posterior part of the medulla, are the " restiform tracts." The anterior pyramids, so called from their shape, are nan-ow below, but gi-adually increase in breadth as they ascend towardsMEDULLA OBLONGATA, 513 the pons. The fibres of which they are composed are continuous with the anterior columns of the spinal cord, and consist, therefore, of motor fibres. They may be traced through the pons into the lower part of the crura cerebri. By gently separating the pyramids about one inch below the pons, you observe that their fibres on each side decussate (fig. 124). This is the explanation of " cross paralysis;" i. e. when one side of the brain is injured the loss of power is manifested on the opposite side of the body. The decus- sation takes place only between the inner fibres of the pyramid; the outer fibres run straight on without decussating. We shall presently find that these decussating fibres are prolongations of the deep fibres of the lateral columns of the cord which here come forward to the surface, pushing aside the proper anterior columns. The olivmy bodies or olives are two oval eminences situated on the outer side of the pyramids. They consist, externally of white substance; when cut into, their interior presents an undulating line of grey matter, called, from its zig-zag shape, " corpus denta- tum.'' This gi-ey line forms a circuit, interrupted only on the inner side, so that it nearly isolates the white matter in its centre. The restiform tracts are situated to the outer side of and behind the olives; to see them well, you should look at the back of the medulla. There you observe that they diverge from each other, and pass into the cerebellum, constituting its inferior crura (p. 514). In consequence of this divergence the grey matter in the interior of the medulla oblongata is exposed; hence it is that the floor of the foiurth ventricle is grey. The restiform bodies contain in their interior- a considerable portion of grey matter, which is continuous with that in the posterior part of the spinal cord. The fibres of which they are composed are conductors of sensation.* When a longitudinal section is carefully made through the mid- dle of the pons and the medulla oblongata, a number of white fibres are seen passing in a horizontal direction, constituting a kind * Two slender columns are marked off from the back part of the restiform bodies one on either side the median fissure (fig. 125). These ai-e the posterior pyramid's of some anatomists. They proceed with the restiform tracts to the cerebellum. L LSPINAL CORD. 514 of septum between the two halves. Some of these septal fibres issuing from the anterior fissure wind round the sides of the medulla, and constitute what are termed the arciform fibres of the Fig. 125. DliGBAM OF THE FOTJBTH VENTBICLE AND EESTIFOEM TRACTS. 1. Thalamus opticus. 2. Nates and testes. 3. Origin of fourth nerve. 4. Processus a eerebeUo ad testes. 6. Eestiform tratcs diverging. 6. Origin of seventh or auditory nerve. medulla (p. 512); others, again, issuing from the posterior fissure, and winding round in a similar manner, form some of the transverse fibres seen on the floor of the fourth ventricle. DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. The proper mode of taking out the spinal cord is to saw through the arches of the vertebra. When these are removed, the spmal cord, covered by its membranes, is exposed. The first thing we notice is, that the cord does not occupy the whole area of the spmal canal. The dura mater does not adhere to the vertebrae, and isMEMBRANES OE THE SPINAL CORD. 515 not their internal periosteum as it is in the skull. There intervenes between the bones and this membrane a space filled by a soft, reddish-looking, fat, and watery cellular tissue, and by the ramifi- cations of a plexus of veins. A few words about these veins before we proceed. The spine is remarkable for the number of large and ton^of Treins. tortuous veins which ramify about it, both inside and outside the vertebral canal.* One cannot form an ade- quate idea of them unless when properly injected, 1. There is a plexus of tortuous veins, both outside and inside the arches of the vertebra. 2. Two large veins extend all down the spinal canal behind the bodies of the vertebrge: they may with strict analogy be termed the " sinuses " of the spinal canal. They communicate by cross branches like a ladder, and receive the large veins which emerge from the cancellous texture of the bones. 3. There are the proper veins of the spinal cord which lie within the dura mater. All discharge themselves through the intervertebral foramina in the several regions of the spine, as follows: — in the cervical, into the vertebral veins; in the dorsal, into the intercostal veins; in the lumbar, into the lumbar veins. Note that this complicate system of veins is wholly unprovided with valves; hence it is they are so liable to become congested in diseases of the spine. PecuHarities of The membranes of the spinal cord, though con- of th^'^c^d ""^^ tinuous with those of the brain, differ from them in certain respects, so as to require a separate notice. Dura mater. " ^^^^ mater" of the cord is a tough fibrous membrane like that of the brain, but does not adhere to the bones, because such adhesion would impede the free movement of the vertebrae upon each other. It forms a complete canal, which loosely sm-rounds the spinal cord, and sends off prolonga- tions over each of the spinal nerves. These prolongations accom- pany the nerves only as far as the intervertebral foramina, and are then blended with the periosteum. * A Tery acciu-ate description and representation of these veins has been given bv Breschet, Essai sur los Veines du Eachis, 4to.; Traits Anatomique sui-le Systime Veineux, fol. avec planches. L L 2SPINAL CORD. 516 Cut through the nerves which proceed from the spinal cord on each side, and remove it with the dura mater entire. Then slit up the dura mater along the middle line, in order to examine the arachnoid membrane. The " arachnoid membrane " of the cord is a continu- ^embrane. ^^ion from that of the brain. It is not in immediate contact with the pia mater underneath, but is separated from it by a transparent watery fluid contained in the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue: therefore the cord may truly nal flidd.'^'' said to float in a fluid (p. 519). This cerebro-spinal fluid cannot be demonstrated xmless the cord be ex- amined very soon after death, and before the removal of the brain.* The nerves proceeding from the cord are loosely surrounded by a sheath of the auachnoid; but this only accompanies them as far as the dura mater, and is then reflected upon that membrane. The pia mater of the cord is the membrane which Pia mater. • j^^^g^j-g^^gjy invests it. It is quite different from that of the brain, since it does not form a bed in which the arteries break up, but serves rather to support and strengthen the cord: consequently it is much less vascular, more/&rows in its structure, and more adherent to the substance of the cord. The fibres of which it is composed are rendered very evident by immersion for * The existence and situation of the cerebro-spinal fluid was first discovered by HaUer (Element. Phys. vol. iv. p. 87), and subsequently more minutely investigated by Magendie (Eecherches Phys. et Cliuiques sur le Liquide Cephalo-rachidien, in 4to. avec atlas : Paris, 1842). This physiologist has shown that if, during life, the arches of the vertebrae are removed in a horse, dog, or other animal, and the dura mater of the cord punctured, there issue jets of a fluid which had previously made the sheath tense The fluid communicates, through the fourth ventricle, with that m the general ventricular cavity. The coUective amount of the fluid vai-ies from 1 to 2 oz. or more. It can be made to flow from the brain into the cord, or vice versd. This is proved by experiments on animals, and by that pathological condition of the spme in children termed " spina bifida. In the latter instance, coughing and crying make the tumour sweU; showing that fluid is forced into it from the ventricles. Again, if pressure be made on the tumour with one hand, and the fontaneUes of the child examined with the other, in proportion as the spinal sweUing decreases so is the brain felt to sweU up, accompanied by symptoms resulting from pressure on the nervous axis generaUy. See some remarks very much to the point, by Dr. Burrows, On Diseases of the Cerebral Circulation, p. 60, 1846.SPINAL CORD. 517 Fig. 126. a time in water. It is prolonged upon the spinal nerves, and forms their investing memhrane or " neurilemma." The pia mater sends off from each side of the cord^ along its whole length, a series of ligaments to steady it. They are triangular, their bases being attached to the cord, and their points to the inside of the dura mater (fig. 126). Thus they look like a series of teeth down the side of the cord: hence dentSa!^^'^ the name "ligamenta dentata" There are from eighteen to twenty-two of them on each side, and they lie between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The spinal cord is that part of the Spinai, coed. 1 • t • . 1 ■ cerebro-spmal axis contained m the diagbam of the , i , 1 Tj. • j-l. J.' J.- r J-T, LIGAMENTA BEN- vertebral canal. It is the continuation oi the me- ^ata. dulla oblongata, and extends from the foramen magnum down to the upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a pointed manner, after having given off the great bundle of nerves termed the " cauda equina " for the supply of the lower limbs.* The general form of the cord is cylindrical, slightly flattened in front and behind. It is not of uniform dimen- sions throughout, but presents a slight enlargement in the lower part of the cervical region; another in the lower part of the dorsal, just where the great nerves of the upper and lower limbs are given off. The cord is divided into two symmetrical halves by a fissure in front and behind (fig. 127). The anterior fissure is the most distinct, and penetrates about one-third of the 1. Dura mater. 2, 2, 2. Ligamenta dentata. Cauda equina. Fissures. * Although the nerve substance of the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, yet the pia mater is continued as a slender filament, called '■' filum ierminale" down to the base of the coccyx. The explanation of this is, that, at an early period of foetal life, the length of the cord corresponds with that of the vertebral canal; but after the third month, the lumbar and sacral vertebrae grow away, so to speak, from the cord, in accordance with the more active development of the lower limbs. See Tiedemann, Anatomic und Bildungsgcschichte des Gehiims im Fcetus des Menscheu, &c.; Niiremberg, 1816. I, L 3518 SPINAL CORD. substance of the cord ; it contains a fold of pia mater full of blood- vessels for the supply of the iaterior. At the bottom of this fissure is a transverse layer of white substance, named the anterior commissure, connecting the two anterior halves of the cord. The poster ior fissure is so much less apparent than the anterior that some anatomists altogether deny its existence; but it can be demonstrated by a careful preparation, and, indeed, penetrates to a greater depth than the anterior, so that it reaches quite down to the grey matter in the centre of the cord. Besides the anterior and posterior fissures, there run down each half of the cord two very superficial grooves, from which the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves respectively emerge. These constitute the anterior and posterior lateral grooves. The posterior leads down to the posterior horn of the grey matter in the interior of the cord; the anterior is less distinct than the other, and does not reach down to the anterior horn of grey ° ™^®' matter. By these lateral grooves each half of the cord is divided into three longitudinal columns—an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral. The anterior are motor columns, the posterior sensitive, the lateral probably contain both motor and sensitive filaments. A transverse section through the cord (fig. 127) shows Intenor. ^^^^ interior contains grey matter, arranged in the form of two crescents placed one in each half of it, and connected across the centre by a portion called the " grey commissure^ * The posterior horns of the crescents are long and narrow, and extend to the posterior lateral fissure, where they are connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior horns are short and thick, and come forwards towards the line of attach-, ment of the anterior roots of the nerves, but do not reach the surface. * The grey matter in the interior of the cord of man and animals presents some- what different appearances in its different parts. These have been accurately des- cribed and figured by Eolando, Eicherche Anatomiche sulla Struttura del Midollo Spinalc, con Figure, art. Tratto dal Dizionai-io Periodico di Medicina, Torino, 1824, 8vo. p. 55.SPINAL CORD. 519 Fig. 127. 1. Dura mater. 2 Arachnoid mem- brane. 3. Ganglion on poste- rior root of spinal nerve. 4. Anterior root of spinal nerve. 5, 5, Seat of aub. araclinoid fluid. Posterior branch of spinal nerve. Anterior branch of spinal nerve. DIAGHAjM OF A TEANSVERSE SECTION THEOUGH THE SPINAL COED AND ITS MEMBEANES. Thirty-one pair of nerves arise from the spinal Spinal neeves. , , .i • ■ .i cord, — namely, 8 m the cervical region, 12 in the dorsal, 5 in the lumbar, 5 in the sacral, and 1 in the coccygeal. Each nerve comes off by two distinct series of roots, — one from Two roots front, the other from the back of the cord. We sensitive are indebted to Sir Charles Bell for the discovery of the and motor. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^-^^ anterior roots consist exclusively of motor filaments, the posterior exclusively of sensitive. All converge and unite in the corresponding intervertebral foramen to form a single nerve, composed of both motor and sensitive filaments. The posterior or sensitive roots proceed from the posterior lateral groove of the cord, and are thicker and more numerous than the anterior,* But the most remarkable thing about them is, that, previous to their union with the anterior roots, they are collected together and pass thi'ough a ganglion. This ganglion is of an oval form, and lies in the intervertebral foramen, just where the roots of the nerves pass through the dura mater.f * The researches of Blandin, Anat. descript. t. ii., p. 648, 1838, have led him to establish the foUovdng relation between the respective size of the anterior and pos- terior roots of the nerves in the several regions of the spine: — The posterior roots are to the anterior in the cervical region )> )> „ dorsal ,, 1) i> „ lumbar and sacral This relation quite accords with the greater delicacy of the sense of touch in the upper extremity. t The ganglia of the two last sacral nerves He within the dura mater. L L 4 2 1520 SPINAL CORD. The compound nerve formed, by the junction of the two roots divides, outside the intervertebral foramen, into an anterior and a posterior branch, for the diagram of which see p. 108. Variation in "^^^ direction and length of the roots of the nerves the^roote ^^^^ different regions of the spine, because the respective parts of the cord from which they arise are not opposite the foramina through which the nerves leave the spinal canal. In the upper part of the cervical region, the origins of the nerves and their point of exit are nearly on the same level: therefore the roots proceed transversely, and are very short. But as we descend from the neck, the obliquity and length of the roots gradually increase, so that the roots of the lower dorsal nerves are at least two vertebra higher than the foramina through which they emerge. Again, since the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, the lumbar and sacral nerves must of neces- sity pass down from it almost perpendicularly through the lower part of the spinal canal.' To this bundle of nerves the old anato- „ , . mists have given the name of cauda equina," Cauda equina. n • n i 3. j from its resemblance to a horse s tail. In brief, then, it appears that the spinal cord consists of two precisely symmetrical parts, separated in front and behind by a deep median fissure; that the two parts are connected at the bottom of the anterior fissure by an anterior or white commissure — at the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior or grey commissure; that each part of the cord is divided into three tracts or columns of longitudinal nerve-fibres — an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral.— the boundaries between them being the respective lines of origin of the roots of the spinal nerves; that the interior of the cord contains grey matter disposed in the form of two crescents placed with their convexities towards each other, and connected by a transverse bar of grey matter, which is the posterior commissure. The cord is supplied with blood by—1, the an- of the cord t^'^^'^OT sjpinal artery, which commences at the meduUa oblongata by a branch from the vertebral of each side, and then runs down the cord, receiving, through the inter- vertebral foramina, numerous branches in its course from theSPINAL CORD. 521 vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries : 2, the posterior spinal arteries, wbicb proceed also from the vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar ai-teries, and ramify very irregularly on the back of the cord. It is curious that, on the posterior part of the bodies of the vertebra} the spinal arteries of opposite sides form by their mutual communications a perfect arterial " ladder " down the entire length of the spinal column.* We noticed a similar arrangement of the venous " sinuses " of the spine, p. 515. ^ ^ The anterior columns consist exclusively of motor Functions oi r i the colvmms fibres which originate from the grey matter ot the bram of the cord. ^^^^ ^j^g gp-^^^ gQrd, and carry the commands of the will and the power of reflex movement to the muscles. The posterior columns consist exclusively of sensitive fibres, which carry sensations, not, as was formerly believed, direct to the brain, but to the grey matter of the cord, through which alone, according to the recent experiments of Brown Sequardf, they are transmitted to the brain. The same experimentalist has also proved another unexpected fact;—that sensations do not run up on the same side but on the opposite. They cross in the cord; for instance if the posterior column on the right side were injured, the left leg and not the right would be deprived of feeling. These are among the most complicate parts of the centralnervous system. They contain white and OBLONGATA AND gj-ej mattor $, intermixed. The white matter cou- pons Varolh. ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^ continuation of the longitudinal fibres of the cord, in part of a new system of horizontal fibres. We will endeavour to trace the longitudinal fibres first; then the horizontal. . The anterior colums (8), (fig. 128), having reached the Antenor ^ / ^ ° , . . columns of lower part of the medulla oblongata, are not contmued the cord. straight up through it, but diverge from each other, so * A preparation of the arteries in the body of a child, in the museum of St. Bartlio- lomew's Hospital, shows this point remarkably well. t See an able article on Brown Sdquard's experiments in the British and Foreign Medico-Chirurugieal Eeview by Mr. Thomas Smith. I The grey matter in the medulla oblongata is collected in three situations'— 1. In the olives; 2. In the restiform tracts; 3. On the floor of the foui'th ventricle.SPINAL CORD. 522 as to allow a part of the lateral columns (9), to corae forward, and after decussation to form the pyramids (6). In their further pro- gress the fibres of the anterior columns are disposed of thus: a small number of them run up and contribute to form the outer portion of theii* own pyramid; all the rest, after embracing the Fig. 128. DIAGRAM OF THE COUESB OF THE FIBIIBS OF THE COBD. olive, pass up through the deep strata of the pons, and then divide into two bundles ; one of these, called the fillet of Eeil (12), mounts over the superior crus of the cerebellum to the corpora quadri- gemina, beneath which it meets with the corresponding fillet of the opposite side; the other proceeds with the crus cerebri to the cerebrum.523 SPINAL CORD. The lateral columns (9), on reaching the medulla ob- SunL of longata, are disposed of in three ways, as follows:—Some the cord. pQ^g forward between the diverging anterior columns, decussate in the middle line, and then form the pyi-amid of the opposite side ; others ascend with the restiform tract into the ce- rebellum ; athii-d set ascend along the floor of the fourth ventricle* (concealed by its superficial grey matter), and then along the upper part of the crus cerebri into the cerebrum. The posterior columns (10) ascend tinder the name SiJmBrof of the restiform tracts at the back of the medulla oblon- the spinal g^ta, diverge from each other, and are, for the most part, continued into the cerebellum, forming its inferior crura; but some of their fibres run on along the floor of the fourth ven- tricle (external to the fibres from the lateral columns), then along the upper part of the crura cerebri into the cerebrum. The horizontal fibres in the medulla oblongata and fibrS°''*'^ the pons were first accurately described and delineated by Stilling.f Some of them form a raphe, and divide the medulla oblongata and pons into symmetrical halves; others, arising apparently from the raphe, pass outwards in an arched manner through the lateral halves of the medulla; so that, when seen in a transverse section by transmitted light, they describe a series of curves, with the convexity forwards, throughout the entire thickness of the medulla. Some of these transverse fibres appear on the surface over the pyramid and the olive ; these have received the name of "arciform fibres " (p. 512). It is difl&cult to deter- mine the object of this system of transverse fibres, or what parts they connect. Stilling and Kolliker j, who have deeply studied the subject, are both of opinion that they originate in the restiform tracts, and thence arch forwards, — some on the surface, others through the substance of the medulla, and that they eventually join the fibres of the raphe. * These fibres constitute what are sometimes called the " round cords " of the fourth ventricle. t Ueber die Mediilla Oblongata. Erlangen, 1843. \ Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 454.524 SPINAL CORD. Internal etruc- "^^^ V^^^ Consists of transverse and longitudinal V^'oHi.^°"' ^^^^ "^'^^ ^ considerable quantity of grey matter in its interior. The superficial layer of fibres is obviously transverse, and connects the two wings of the cerebeUum. After removing this first layer, we come upon the longitudinal fibres of the pyramids in their course to the crura cerebri (p. 522): these longitudinal fibres, however, are inter- sected by the deep transverse fibres of the pons, which, like the superficial, are continued into the cerebellum. The third and deepest layer of the pons consists entirely of longitudinal fibres, derived partly from the lateral, partly from the restiform tracts of the medulla. Crura cerebri. ^^^^^ composed of longitudinal fibres, derived from the pyramids, from part of the lateral and res- tiform columns of the cord, and from the grey matter in the pons Varolii. If one of the crura be divided longitudinally, we find in the middle of it a layer of dark-coloured nervous matter, called "locus niger;" it separates the crus into an upper and a lower stratum of fibres. The lower stratum is tough and coarse, and consists of the continuation of the fibres proceeding from the pyramid and the pons. The upper stratum is much softer and finer in texture, and has received the name of the " tegmentum: " it is composed of the fibres proceeding from the lateral and the restiform columns; also from the superior commissure of the cerebellum. Tracing the fibres of the crus cerebri into the cerebral hemi- sphere, we find that they diverge from each other, that its lower fibres ascend chiefly through the corpora striata, its upper fibres through the thalami optici. In passing through these great ganglia, the crus receives a very large addition to its fibres: these then branch out widely towards all parts of the hemisphere, in order to reach the cortical substance on the surface. From what has been said, it appears that the crura or roots of the cerebellum and the cerebrum contain part of the motor and part of the sensitive tracts of the spinal cord.525 ORIGIN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. The cerebral nerves are given off in pairs, named ?r™«A. the first, second, third, &c., according to the order in NER-^s. ^^^^-^ appear, beginning from the front. There are nine pairs. Some are nerves of special sense,-as the olfactory, the optic, the auditory ; others are nerves of common sensation,— as the large root of the fifth, the glossopharyngeal, and the pneumo- gastric; others, again, are nerves of motion,—as the third, the fourth, the small root of the fifth, the sixth, the facial division of the seventh, the spinal accessory, and the ninth. This nerve arises by three roots,— an outer and an olfacto^""'"'' inner, composed of white matter, and a central com- posed of grey (fig. 129). Kg. 129. I. Olfactory n. ■2. Optic n. 3. Crus cerebri. 4. Section of crus to show locus niger. 5. Corpus geniculatum externum. DIAGRAM OF THE OHIGINS OF THE OLFACTOBY AND OPTIC NEBVES. The outer root proceeds from the bottom of the fissure of Silvius, and describes a curve with the concavity ovitwards.OEIGIN OP THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 526 The inner root arises from the posterior extremity of the internal convolution of the anterior cerebral lobe. « The middle or grey root arises from the posterior extremity of the farrow in which the olfactory nerve is lodged; to see it, there- fore, you should turn the nerve backwards. The olfactory nerve is triangular, that it may fit into a furrow between the convolutions. It proceeds straightforwards under the anterior lobe, and terminates in the olfactory ganglion, which lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The olfactory ganglion is of an olive-like shape, of a reddish grey colour, and very soft consistence. It gives off from its under siu:- face the true olfactory nerves.* For the description of these, see p. 180. ^ ^ . These nerves arise chiefly from the corpora quadrige- or optie^^'^' niina; also from the geniculate bodies and the thalami optici (p. 525). They wind round the crura cerebri to the base of the brain, and, uniting in the middle line, constitute the optic commissure. This commissure rests on the sphenoid bone, in front of the cella turcica. From the commissure each nerve passes through the foramen opticum into the orbit, and terminates in the retina. At the commissure some of the nerve fibres cross from one side to the other. This decussation affects only the i^ddle fibres of the nerve; the course of the other fibres is shown in the diagram (p. 497). The purpose of this partial crossing is not thoroughly understood. It was ingeniously supposed by Dr. Wollastonf to * Strictly speaMng, the olfactory nerve and its ganglion are integral parts (the prosencephalic lobe) of the brain. What in human anatomy is called the origia of the nerve is, in point of fact, the crus of the olfactory lobe, and is in every way homo- logous to the crus cerebri or cerebelli. In proof of this, look at the enormous size and connections of the crus in animals which have veiy acute sense of smell. Throughout the vertebrate kingdom there is a strict ratio between the sense of smeU and the de- velopment of the olfactory lobes. Again, in many animals, these lobes are actually larger than the cerebral, and contain in their interior a cavity which communicates with the lateral ventricles. According to Tiedemann, this cavity exists even in tlie human foetus at an early period. t Philosophical Transactions of the Eoyal Society, 1824.527 ORiaiN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. account for single vision, since the right halves and the left halves of the eyes would derive their nerve-fibres from the same optic nerve. Th" d < ir -^^^ apparent origin of the third nerve is from the or motor^' inner side of the crus cerebri, immediately in front of oculorum. ^j^^ ^^^^. j.QQ^g penetrate into the crus as deep as the locus niger (p. 525). It passes through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies all the muscles of the eye, except the superior oblique and the rectus externus. The fourth nerve arises from the valve of Vieussens orTaietid (P- ^0'^)' ^^^^ transversely outwards, winds round the crus cerebri, enters the orbit through the sphe- noidal fissure, and supplies the superior oblique muscle of the eye. . The fifth nerve arises by two roots of unequal size, or trigeminal The apparent origin of both is from the side of the pons (p. 512); but their real origin is much deeper. The smaller and more anterior of the two consisting of motor fibres only, may be traced into the pyramidal tract in the pons; the posterior and larger root, consisting of purely sensitive fibres, may be traced into the restiform tract of the medulla. The nerve proceeds forwards over the apes of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone: here is developed vipon the sensitive root the great Gasserian ganglion. This root then divides into three branches; the ophthalmic, which passes through the orbital fissure ; the superior maxillary, which passes through the foramen rotundum; the in- ferior maxillary, which passes through the foramen ovale. They all confer common sensibility upon the parts they supply, which com- prise nearly the entire head. The small motor root accompanies the inferior maxillary division of the sensitive root, and is distri-. buted to the muscles of mastication. The sixth nerve arises from the medulla oblongata, aScei!"' close to the pons (p. 512), leaves the skull through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the rectus externus of the eye. The seventh consists of two distinct nerves — the Seventhpair. ^^^.^^^ duva, or muscular nerve of the face, and theDISSECTION OP THE EYE. 528 portio mollis, or proper auditory nerve. The apparent origin of both is from the lower parts of the pons Varolii (p. 512). The real origin of the portio dura is in the lateral columns of the medulla. The real origin of the auditory nerve is from the floor of the fourth ventricle by several filaments. The seventh pair emerges from the skull through the meatus auditorius internus. For the further description of the portio dura, see p. 63. The auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. Eighth air '^^^^ comprises three nerves — the glosso-pharyn- geal, the pneumogastric, and the nervus accessorius, (p. 512). The first two arise by several filaments from the restiform tract of the medulla close to the olive. The nervus accessorius arises by a series of roots from the lateral coliunn of the spinal cord, as low down as the fifth cervical nerve. It then ascends into the skull through the foramen magnum, and leaves it, with the other two nerves, through the foramen jugulare. The glosso- pharyngeal is distributed to the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the back of the tongue (p. 77). The pneumogastric is distri- buted to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart and lungs, the oeso- phagus, and the stomach. The nervus accessorius supplies the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. For the further description of these nerves, see pp. 78 and 8. Ninth pair This nerve arises by several roots from the medulla or hypo- oblongata, along the groove between the pyramid and glossal. ^j^^ olive. It leaves the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, and is distributed to the muscles of the tongue and the depressors of the os hyoides and larypx. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Since the human eye cannot be obtained sufficiently fresh for anatomical purposes, we must have recoiu'se to the eyes of animals —say of the sheep or the pig. The first thing to be done is to remove the conjunctival coat together with the loose connective tissue which unites it to the sclerotica.DISSECTION OP THE EYE. 529 The conjunctiva is the mucous memhrane which. SSva Jiiies the eyelids. From the back part of the tarsal cartilages it is reflected over the sclerotic coat of the eye by loose folds, so as not to impede the motions of the globe. The palpebral portion of it is very vascular, and provided with fine papillEe.* The ocular portion has no papillae, and is nearly colour- less, except when inflamed; it then becomes intensely vascular and red, like a piece of scarlet cloth. An abundant supply of nerves, has been bestowed upon the membrane for the purpose of giving it that exquisite degree of sensibility necessary to guard the eye (p 52). Continuecl I&JBY of Conjunctiva covers the cornea or over the transparent part of the eye. True, it cannot be sepa- cornea. ^^^^^ dissection in recent eyes ; but the corneal con- junctiva possesses the same acute sensibiUty as the rest of it; changes produced by inflammation of the conjunctiva are often continued over the cornea: we see red vessels injected on its surface, and its texture becomes thickened.f The human eye is very nearly spherical. It would be quite so, but that the transparent part in front—the cornea—forms a seg- ment of a smaller sphere than the rest. Consequently, the antero- posterior diameter of the ball exceeds the transverse by about one line. The convexity of the cornea, however, varies in different persons, and at different periods of life; this is one cause of the several degrees of near-sight and far-sight. Coats and globe is composed of three coats arranged one HnMouBs OF within the other. The external coat, called the "scle- THE ETE. rotic," is fibrous, thick, and strong, so as to form a case to protect the delicate structures within it. The second coat, called the " choroid,^'' is composed almost entirely of blood-vessels, * These papillse were first pointed out by Eble, Ueber den Bau und die Kranlc- heiten des Bindehaut des Auges. t The facts of comparative anatomy confirm this view. In the serpent tribe, which annually shed their skin, the front of the cornea comes off with the rest of the external surface of the body. In the eel the surface of the cornea is often drawn off in the process of skinning. In some species of rodents which burrow under the ground like the mole, the eye is covered with hair Hke other parts. M MDISSECTION OF THE EYE. 530 and very dark in coloui-. The third coat called the " retina," con- sists of the expansion of the optic nerve for the reception of the impression of light. The great bulk of the interior is filled with a transparent humour called the " vitreous." Imbedded in the front of this, and just behind the pupil, is the crystalline lens for the purpose of concentrating the rays of light. In front of the lens is placed a moveable curtain, called the "iris" in order to regulate the quantity of light which shall be admitted through the pupil. The space in which the iris is suspended is filled with a fluid termed the " aqueous " humour. Sclerotic The sclerotic is the tough protecting coat of the eye coat. consists of glistening fibres interlacing in all direc- tions.* It covers about ^-ths of the globe, the remaining -|-th being I'ig-130. completed by the cornea. The thickest part of the sclerotic coat is at the back of the globe (fig. 131): here it is perforated by the optic nerve a little on the nasal side of the axis of vision.f Aroimd the optic nerve it is perforated by the ciliary arteries, veins, and nerves, for the supply of the cho- roid coat and the iris. Towards the front the sclerotic becomes much insektion of the eecti htuscles avith thinner, and about a quarter of an anteeiob cixiart aetebies. inch from the cornea it receives the insertion of the recti muscles; here again it is perforated by the * The sclerotic coat of tlie eye in fishes is of extraordinary thickness and density, for obvious reasons ; and in birds this coat is further strengthened by a circle of bony plates, fourteen or fifteen ia number, arranged in a series round the margin of the cornea. Similar plates are found in some of the reptiles, and particularly in the fossil icthyosauri and plesiosauri. t The optic nerve does not pass through a single large hole in the sclerotic, but through a net-work of fibrous tissue. It is also very much constricted just at its entrance.531 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. anterior ciliary arteries which creep along the tendons of these muscles (fig. 130). The inner surface of the sclerotica is coated by a thm layer of areolar tissue impregnated with dark pigment cells. It is some- times called " lamina fusca." To examine the cornea, it should be removed with the sclerotic Hyaloid membrane Retina (dotted line) . Choroid coat (black line) Sclerotic coat . . . DIAGBAM OP A TBRTICAL SECTION OF THE EYE. 1. Anterior chamber filled -with aqueoua humour. Cornea. Iris. Ciliary processes. Canal of Fontana. Ciliary ligament. 2. Posterior chamber. 3. Canal of Petit. coat. This is best done under water, by making a circular cut with scissors about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea. With a little care, it is easy to take off the outer covering of the eye without injuring the dark choroid coat underneath it, or the ciliary ligament, or the iris. In the loose watery cellular tissue between the sclerotic and the choroid we observe the ciliary nerves coming forwards towards the iris: their white colour makes them very conspicuous on the dark ground. M M 2532 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. CoHNEA '^^^ cornea is tlie brilliant and transparent coat whicli occupies about one-fifth of the front part of the globe, and is, as it were, the window of the eye. However delicate it appears at first sight, yet it is quite as tough and thick as any part of the sclerotica. It ■ is connected to this coat in the firmest possible manner: the margin of the sclerotica is beveled on the inside; that of the cornea on the outside; so that the one overlaps the other (fig. 131). As to the structure of the cornea, it consists of con- Structure. -IP • centric layers of transparent tissue; by squeezing it be- tween the finger and thumb, you can make the layers glide on each other. But these layers are not all composed of the same kind of tissue. The first stratum is conjunctival. The second stratum consists of a remarkably elastic tissue. The third stratum consists of transparent fibrous tissue; upon this the thickness and strength of the cornea mainly depend. The fourth * stratum is again elastic. The fifth and last stratum consists of epithelium. Such is the beautiful structure of the cornea. In its healthy state it contains no blood-vessels; they run back in loops as soon as they reach its cii-cumference.f After the removal of the sclerotic and cornea, we ex- Choeoid p^g^ ^-^^ choroid coat |, — a white ring, called the " cilimy ligament," which bounds its anterior part; also the iris, of which the outer circumference is attached to this ring (fig. 132.) The choroid is the soft and flocculent tunic of the eye, remark- able for its dark colour and great vascularity. When properly in- jected, and examined with the microscope, it is found to consist almost wholly of arterial and venous ramifications; the arteries being chiefly arranged on the inner, the veins on the outer surface. * The great peculiarity of this layer is, that it is perfectly structureless ; and when peeled off, it has a remarkable tendency to curl up. Maceration or boiLuig, or the action of acids, do not render it opaque, like they do the other layers of the cornea. Dr. Jacob calls it the " elastic cornea." — Med. Chu\ Trans, vol. xii. p. 503. t For a very elaborate investigation of the structure of the cornea, see Todd and Bowman's Physiological Anatomy, Part. iii. p. 17. \ So caUed because its outer flocculent surface somewhat resembles the chorion or external investment of the ovum. COAT.533 DISSECTIOJSr OF THE EYE. The dark colour is adventitious, and is owing to a deposit in its texture of colouring matter termed "pigmentum nigrum" The veins of the choroid, are placed on the outside of the mem- brane. When successfully injected with mercury, one finds that Peculiarity ^^^^ arranged with great regularity in drooping of the cbo- branches {vasa vorticosa), like a weeping willow roid veins. jgg), and that they converge to four nearly equi- distant trunks, which, after running backwards for a short distance. Kg. 132. Sclerotic coat . . . - Veins of tlie choroid . - Ciliary nerves . . . - Veins of the choroid. Ciliary ligament. Iris. SCXEEOTIC COAT BEMOTED TO SHO"W THE CHOEOID, OIXIAEY XIGAMENT, AND NEETES. perforate the sclerotica not far from the entrance of the optic nerve, and empty themselves into the ophthalmic vein. The arteries ramify on the inner surface of the choroid: they perforate the sclerotica near the optic nerve, and then divide and subdivide into a very minute network, termed after the Dutch anatomist Euysch, " tunica Ruyschiaoia." Posteriorly there is a circular aperture in the choroid for the passage of the optic nerve. In front the choroid is united to the ciliary ligament: it appears to stop short here; but this is not the M M 3PISSECTION OF THE EYE. 534 case; for, under this ligament, it extends forwards round the cir- cumference of the crystalline lens' in a series of plaited folds, called the " ciliary processes." This is the colouring matter of the choroid. It is aili^.*'^"^ merely adventitious, for, if the choroid be washed in water or spirit, the colour is entirely removed, leaving the membrane of a greyish tint. In man this pigment is dark brown, but in most animals it is jet black. Under the microscope, it is found to consist of coloured granules contained in minute hexagonal cells. It exists on both surfaces of the choroid, but chiefly on the inner, where it forms a continuous stratum.* The use of the pigment is to absorb the rays of light which pass through the retina, and prevent their being reflected. It serves the same purpose as the,black paint with which the inside of optical instru- ments is darkened. Albinos, in whom the choroid has little or no pigment, are consequently dazzled by daylight, and see better in the dusk. I The ciliary ligament (fig. 132) is a whitish grey ring, H^^nt ^^^^ broad, situated just beneath the union of the sclerotica and the cornea. It serves as a connecting medium between several structures—namely, the cho- roid, iris, ciliary processes, and sclerotica.^ * Dalrymple speaks of a very delicate membrane as lining the inner surface of tie choroid, for the purpose of keeping the dark pigment ia its place. A similar mem- brane maybe detected on the posterior surface of the iris; otherwise the pigment there would be apt to be washed away by the aqueous humour. t In many of the nocturnal carniyorous quadrupeds, the inner surface of the choroid at the bottom of the eye, presents a briUiant colom- and metaUic lustre. It is called the tapetum. By reflecting the rays of light a second time thi-ough the retina, it probably causes the animal to see better in the dusk. It is the cause of the weU- known glare of the eyes of cats and other animals; and the gi-eat breadth of the luminous appearance arises from the dilatation of the piipil. X Some anatomists describe a ciliari/ muscle. They say its point of attachment is at the line of junction of the sclerotic and cornea; from thence it radiates backwards over the outer surface of the ciliary ligament, where its fibres are lost. Its action would be to approximate the ciliary processes and lens towards the cornea. Sir Philip Crumpton has noticed that this muscle is weU developed in birds. In them its fibres are of the striped kind, just as the circular fibres of the iris arc.535 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. M M -t Between the sclerotic, the cornea, and the ciliary liga- r^"tenl ^^^^ placed a minute circular canal, termed " Fon- '°" '''''^ tana's canal " (fig. 131). It is probably a venous sinus, for it can always be injected from the arteries. The iris is a moveable curtain suspended freely in the clear fluid, which occupies the space between the cornea and crystalline lens. The iris divides this space into two unequal parts, called the anterior and posterior chambers (fig. 131); these communicate with each other through a circular aperture in the centre, called the pupil* Its use is to regulate the amount of light which shall be admitted into the eye: for this purpose its itmer circumference is capable of dilating and contracting according to circumstances, while its outer circumference is immoveably connected to the ciliary ligament. The colour of the iris varies in different individuals, and gives the peculiar tint and brilliancy to the eye. The colouring matter or pigment is contained in minute cells. The posterior surface of the iris, called the uvea-f, is in all cases covered by a layer of black pigment. When the iris is laid under water, and viewed with a low mag- nifying power, its front surface looks shaggy; a number of fine fibres are seen converging from all sides towards the pupil: many of them unite and form arches. When the pupil is contracted these fibres are stretched, and vice ver^^.-.Whether they co-operate in producing the dilatation of the pupil is uncertain. The contractile power of the iris depends upon muscular fibres of the non-striped kind, arranged some in a radiating, others in a circular manner. The radiating converge towards the pupil; the circular are aggregated round the pupillary margin.^ * The size and shape of the pupil vary in different animals. In the bullock, sheep, horse, &c., it is oblong; in carnivorous quadrupeds it is often a mere vertical slit during the day, but dilates into a large circle at night. f Strictly speaking, the term uvea was applied by the old anatomists to the choroid and iris collectively, which they very properly considered as one coat, and called the " ^iTwu payo€iSi}s," because its dark colour made it lilce the berry of the grape. J The circidar fibres of the iris in the bird are of the striped variety, and discernible without difficulty. /DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 536 When minutely injected, the iris appears to be composed almost entirely of blood-vessels *; so much so that some anatomists con- sider it to be a kind of erectile tissue, and that its power of con- tracting and expanding depends upon this property alone. Its i blood-vessels are derived from two sources—the posterior Its Dlood- -1 J , . , .,. . Tessels. 0^ J^ong, and the anterior or short ciliary arteries. The posterior perforate the sclerotica round the optic nerve, and then run on upon the choroid to the iris; the anterior pro- ceed from the tendons of the recti, p. 530, and perforate the sclerotica round the margin of the cornea. It is from the enlarge- ment of these latter vessels that the red zone round the cornea is produced in inflammation of the iris. The nerves of the iris, twelve or thereabouts in num- Its nerves. . . „ i n ■ i ber,^ proceed irom the lenticular ganghon, and from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair, p. 160. They perforate the back of the sclerotica Hke the arteries, and run along the choroid to the iris. Until the seventh or eighth month of foetal life, the pupfflaris. pupil is closed by a delicate membrane, termed " rmm- brana pujpillaris" Its vessels are arranged in loops, which converge towards the centre of the pupil. It has been lately discovered that this membrane, which has always been regarded as a distinct structure, is identical with the anterior layer of the cap- sule of the crystalline lens.f ^ To obtain a view of the retina, the choroid coat must be removed while the eye is imder water; this is readily done with the forceps and scissors. The optic nerve, having entered the interior of the globe through the sclerotic and the choroid, expands into the delicate nervous tunic called the retina. In passing through the coats of the eye, the nerve becomes sud- denly constricted, and reduced to one third of its diameter; just * In -weU-injected preparations one may see that the chief blood-vessels are dis- ■posed in two circles on the front surface of the iris, one near the outer, and the other near the inner circumference. ■ t See a paper hy John Quekett in the Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London, vol. iii. p. 9.DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 537 at tbis point too it projects slightly into the interior of the globe, forming a little prominence to which the term "papilla conica" has been applied.* In front the retina ter- minates in a thin serrated border (om ser- Fig^lSS^ rata), which fits into corresponding denta- tions in the posterior margin of the ciliary body. Precisely opposite the pupil there is a bright yellow spot in the retina, about l-24th of an inch in diameter, fading off ^^^^^^ ^^^^^ gradually at the edges, and having a black canai of Petit (inflated.) . . ,, , rni • J. ^ j. ^one of Zinn (exaggerated.) spot m the centre. Ihis central spot was believed by its discoverer, the celebrated Soemmering f, to be a perforation; but it is now ascertained to depend upon the absence of the yellow colour in the centre: so that the dark pigment of the choroid becomes conspicuous. These appearances are lost soon after death, and are replaced by a minute fold, into which the retina gathers itself, reaching from the centre of the spot to the prominence of the optic nerve. The use of this yellow spot is not understood.^ Although to the naked eye the retina appears nothing organisation. iQore than a soft semi-transparent membrane, yet, when examined with the microscope, it is found to be most minutely and elaborately organised. It consists of three layers,— an internal vascular layer, an external, termed "membrana Jacobi;" a middle or truly nervous layer. In the middle layer, the delicate fibres of the optic nerve spread out and ramify through a stratum, of nerve-cells: how they ultimately terminate, whether by loops or in free extremities, is still doubtful. The internal layer is formed by the ramifications of the arteria centralis retinse, which form a close network of blood-vessels throughout the nervous sub- stance, for its nutrition. After a short maceration in water, the nervous substance can be brushed off with a delicate camel's-hair * This prominence is remarkable, in that it is insensible to the rays of light, t De foramine centrali, &c., retinse humanse; in Comment. Soc. Getting, t. 13. I In birds the retina has throughout the yellowish colour seen only at one part in the human eye.DISSECTION OF TUE EYE. 538 pencil, and then, in an injected eye, the web formed by the vessels can be distinctly seen. The larger branches, however, are visible without injection : one of them runs round the free margin of the retina. But the part of the retina most remarkable for the Jacd^L^* siugularity of its organisation is the structure which forms its external layer. It is termed the " membrana Jacohi." * When carefully examined with the high powers of a microscope, it is found to be composed of minute cylindrical, trans- parent rods, arranged like bristles in a brush, at right angles to the surface of the retina. Their outer extremities are imbedded, to a greater or less depth, in the dark pigment of the choroid; so that, when viewed from without, the rods have the appearance of a mosaic paven^ent-f 1 , These structures are best seen when the globe has Ciliary body . ... , . j and pro- been divided by a vertical section into an anterior and a posterior half, the vitreous humour being left undis- turbed. We then see a beautiful black disk, about three lines broad, surrounding the lens: it may be regarded as a continuation of the choroid. The posterior boundary of this ring is smooth and flat, and defined by a dentated line. The anterior part presents a number of longitudinal plaits or folds, from sixty to seventy in number, alternately long and short, and arranged in a radiated manner round the circumference of the lens. One of these is seen in the diagram p. 531. The entire ring is called the ciliary body; and the folds of it in front, the ciliary processes. The processes are kept in place by being attached to the ciHary ligament: they fit into corresponding depressions in the vitreous humour, and their free ends project for a short distance into the posterior chamber. They consist of convolutions of minute arteries, and their dark colour arises from the pigment on their surface. Their use is unknown. * After its discoverer, Dr. Jacob, of Dublin, who described it in the PhUosophieal Transactions, 1819. t See Hannover, Eecherches Microseop. siir le Systime Nerveux, 1844.539 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. The aqueous humour consists of a few drops of clear tumour. watery fluid, which fills up the space between the cornea and crystalline lens. The iris floats freely in it, and divides the space into two chambers of unequal size — an anterior and a posterior. The posterior is much the smaller of the two: indeed, the iris is so close to the lens that they are separated by a mere film of fluid. This accounts for the frequent adhesions which are apt to take place, during inflammation, between the pupil and the capsule of the crystalline. Some anatomists describe the anterior chamber as lined by a serous membrane, which they call the membrane of the aqueous humour. It is true that there is a delicate layer of epithelium on the posterior surface of the cornea, hut nothing like a continuous serous membrane can be demon- strated on the iris or the capsule of the lens. The anterior chamber is remarkable for the rapidity with which it absorbs and secretes, as is proved, in the one case, by the speedy removal of extrava- sated blood ; in the other, by the rapid reappearance of the aqueous humour after the extraction of a cataract. The vitreous humom- is a beautifully transparent, humoiir and gelatinous-looking substance, which fills up nearly hyaloid fouT-fifths of the interior of the globe (p. 531). It consists of a watery fluid contained in the meshes of a cellular structure, called the " hyaloid membrane" from its perfect translucency: the cells communicate freely with each other; for, if any part of it be punctured, the humour gradually drains off. The membrane itself is so delicate that it is dijBficult to obtain it separately; but it may be rendered slightly opaque by strong spirit or diluted acids. It is of somewhat firmer consistence on the surface, so that it answers the purpose of a capsule for the vitreous humour, and is sufficiently strong to keep it in shape after the stronger tunics of the eye have been removed.* * The cells of the Titreous humour may sometimes be demonstrated hj freezing the eye and then dividing it. The figure and size of the cells is shown by the por- tions of ice which they contain. Again, by macerating the eye in chromic acid, it is found that the vitreous humour is intersected by 180 delicate partitions, disposed like those in the pulp of an orange—with this difference, however, that the partitions540 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. In the foetus, a branct. of the retinal artery rang through the centre of the vitreous humour, and ramifies on the back of the capsule of the lens. It is lodged in a tubular canal in the hyaloid membrane, termed the hyaloid canal; but little or nothing of this is seen in the adult. The vitreous humour presents in front a deep depres- sion, in-which the crystalline lens is imbedded; arormd this depression is the " zone of Zinn.'" * This zone is best exposed by peeling off the ciliary body. It then appears like a dark disk and extends from the front margin of the retina nearly to the capsule of the lens: its surface is marked by prominent ridges which correspond with the intervals between the ciliary pro- cesses (fig. 133). Various opinions are entertained of the nature of this zonebut it does not appear to be anything more than the impresssion left by the pigment of the ciliary body upon the hyaloid membrane. If the transparent membrane between the zone of Zinn Petif °^ margin of the lens be carefully punctured, and the point of a small blow-pipe gently introduced, we may succeed in inflating a canal which encircles the lens, and, when inflated, resembles a circle of small glass beads: this is the canal of Petit, or " canal godronne " (fig. 131, p. 531). How this canal is formed, whether by the separation of the hyaloid membrane into two layers or not, and what is its use, are questions not easily answered. The crystalline lens (fig. 131) is a perfectly trans- Ceystai- ej^t solid body, situated immediately behind the ILrNlS LENS* It pupil, and partly imbedded in the vitreous humour, it is convex on both surfaces, but more so behind. Its shape and consistence vary at difierent periods of life. In early life it is nearly spherical and soft, but it becomes more flattened and firmer with advancing age. In the adult, its transverse diameter is about do not quite react the centre, but leave a cylindrical space in the axis of the humour. Up this space the central artery runs in the foetus. * Zinn was Professor of Anatomy at Gottingen about the middle of the eighteenth century, and author of " Descriptio Anat. Oculi Humani."DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 541 three-eighths of an inch; its antero-posterior, one-sixth of an inch. The lens is kept in place by a capsule equally transparent as itself. The capsule is composed of tissue exactly similar to the elastic layer of the cornea. It is at least four times thicker, in front than behind, as one might expect, for the sake of more effective support. No vascular connection whatever exists between the lens and its capsule.* The lens protrudes directly the capsule is suffi- ciently opened. How, then, is the lens nourished? By means of an extremely delicate layer of nucleated cells on its surface, which absorb nourishment from the capsule. Some anatomists speak of a layer of fluid {liquor Morgagni) as existing between the lens and its capsule; but no such fluid can be detected during life, and if there be any after death, it is, in all probability, imbibed by the capsule from the aqueous humour. The minute structure of the lens is very remarkable, ste^^toe. gelatinous in consistence outside, but grows gradu- ally denser towards the centre. After immersion in nitric acid, alcohol, or boiling water, it becomes hard and opaque. One may then see that it is divided into three equal parts, by three lines which radiate from the centre to within one-third of the circumference. Each of these portions is composed of hundreds of concentric layers, arranged one within the other, like the coats of an onion. But this is not all: if we examine any single layer with the microscope, we find that it is made up of fibres about sVoT*^ of an inch in thickness, and connected together by finely serrated edges. This beautiful dovetaibng of the fibres of the lens was first pointed out by Sir David Brewster; and, to see it in per- fection, one ought to take the lens of the common cod-fish. * The vessels of the capsule of the lens are derived from the arteria centraUs retinse and, m mammaHa, can only be injected in the fcetal state. In the reptiUa, however' the posterior layer of the capsule is permanently vascular. According to Quekett' the membrana pupillaris of authors is nothing more than the anterior layer of the capsule. In taking the eye to pieces, it is quite a matter of accident whether the membrane adhere to the iris, or remain in its proper place in front of the lens See Quekett's paper in the " Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London " vol iii542 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The use of the lens is to bring the rays of light to a focus upon the retina. DISSECTION OP THE OEGAN OF HEARING * The parts constituting the organ of hearing should be examined in the following order: —1. The outer cartilage; 2. The external meatus; which leads to 3. The tympanum; and lastly, the laby- rinth, or internal ear, comprising the vestibule, cochlea, and semi- cu'cular canals. Every one is familiar with the general form of the piima, or fibro-cartilage of the ear; but anatomists have given names to its different parts. The outer folded border is called the helix; the ridge within it, the ante-helix. This bifurcates towards the front, and bounds the fossa of the ante-helix. The conical eminence in front of the meatus is termed the tragus: from this, hair generally grows. Behind the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch, is the anti-tragus. The lobule is that part from which ear-rings are suspended. The deep hollow which collects the sonorous vibrations, and directs them into the meatus, is termed the concha. The groundwork of the pinna is a fibro-cartilage, which is attached by an anterior ligament to the zygoma, and by a posterior to the mastoid process. The muscles which move the cartilage of the ear as a Muscles^ OF ^-^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ described (p. 155). Some other little muscles extend from one part of the cartilage to the other - but they are so indistinct, that, unless the body be very muscular, your attempt to find them will be made in vam. The five following are usually described by anatomists: four on the front of the pinna, and one behind it: — , +i a. The musculus major helicis runs vertically along tlie front margin of the pinna. * The iUustrations of the organ of hearing have been aJready puhUshed in my work on " Human Osteology."543 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. b. The m. minor helicis lies over that part of the helix, which comes up from the bottom of the concha. c. The m. tvagicus lies vertically over the outer surface of the tragus. d. The m. anti-tragicus proceeds transversely from the anti-tragus to the helix. e. The m. transversus is on the back of the pinna: it passes from the back of the concha to the heHx. The arteries of the pinna are derived from the posterior auri- cular and the temporal. The nerves are furnished by the auriculo- parotidean branch of the cervical plexus, and the temporo-auricular branch of the inferior maxillary. This passage leads down to the membrana tympani, or ditorius.^^^' drum of the ear. It is formed partly by a tubular con- tinuation of the concha, partly by an osseous canal in the temporal bone. It is not a straight tube, but inclines at first upwards and forwards, and then curves a little downwards.* Its length is rather more than an inch. It is not throughout of the same calibre; the narrowest part is about the middle: hence the difficulty in extracting foreign bodies which have gained access to the bottom of it. The true skin and the cuticle are continued down it; and, becoming gradually thinner, form a cul-de-sac over the membrana tympani. Only the outer portion is furnished with ceruminous glands, of which the peculiar bitter secretion is for the purpose of keeping the passage moist, and preventing insects from lodging in it. Tympantim. tympanum, or middle ear, is an irregular cavity scooped out of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and lined by mucous membrane. It is filled with air, which is freely admitted through the Eustachian tube; so that the atmo- spheric pressure is equipoised on both sides of the membrana tympani. It contains a chain of small bones, of which the use is to communicate the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the * In order to obtain a correct knowledge of the length and dimensions of tlie meatus we ought to make sections through it in different directions, or a cast of it in common plaster.544 DISSECTION OV THE EAR, internal parts of the ear. For this purpose one end of the chain is attached to the membrana tympani, the other to the fenestra ovalis. At the back part of it is an opening for the passage of air into the mastoid cells. Lastly, a nerve, called the chorda tympani (a branch of the portio dura) runs across it. The membrana tympani completely closes the bottom Membrana ^ meatus auditorius. It is nearly circular, and its tympani. 4.1, + •+ • circumference is set in a bony groove, so tnat it is stretched somewhat like the parchment of a drum on the outer wall of the tympanum. Its plane is not vertical, but slants from above downwards, forming, with the lower part of the meatus, an angle of 45°: nor is it quite flat, but slightly conical, the apex being directed inwards towards the tympanum, and firmly united to the handle of the little bone called the " malleus." The struc- ture of the membrane is essentially fibrous; some of the fibres radiate from the centre, others are circular. Its inner surface is lined by mucous membrane; its outer surface is covered by an extremely thin layer of the true skin. This sufficiently accounts for the great sensibility of the membrane, and its vascularity when inflamed. For a complete account of the Eustachian tube see Enstachian jg-j,^ y^r^ ^ged only say here that it proceeds from the anterior part of the tympanum downwards and forwards to the pharynx. The four little bones in the tympanum are named. Tympanic ^^^^^ ^j^^-^ fancied resemblance to certain implements, the malleus, incus, os orUculare, and stapes. They are articulated to each other by perfect joints, and are so placed that the chain somewhat resembles the letter Z.* Their use is to . The handle of the maUeus is nearly yertieal, and attached along its -l^ol« l-S*^ to the upper half of the membrana tympani. The long process (P-J^-^-^^) pro lets bright angles from the body of the bone, nms mto the Glassenan fi s^ and Sceives the Lertion of the laxator tympani. The short process recexves the inser- is shaped lil^e a bicuspid mola. tooth ^th nne« Its broad part articulates mth the malleus; its long process ^^'^'^^^l^^^^ stapes, or stirrup bone, through the os orbiculare ; it. short process is directedDISSECTION OF THE EAR. 545 transmit.the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the mem- brane of the fenestra ovalis, and, through it, to the fluid contained in the internal ear. But they have another use, which would be incompatible with a single bone — namely, to permit the tighten- ing and relaxation of the membrana tympani, and thus adapt it either to resist the impulse of a very loud sound, or to favour a more gentle one. Muscles of These little muscles, by moving the tympanic bones, THE TYHPA- tighten or relax the membrane of the tympanum. The " tensor tympani " runs above and parallel to the Eus- tachian tube, from the cartilaginous part of which it arises. It passes backwards, and terminates in a round tendon, which enters the fore part of the tympanum through a special bony canal, and is inserted into the short process of the malleus. Its action is to draw the membrana tympani inwards, and thus render it tense. The " laxator tympani " arises from the spine of the sphenoid, and is inserted into the long process of the malleus. The " stapedius " arises from a tube in the pyramid, and its tendon is inserted into the neck of the stapes. Its precise use is not thoroughly understood. A branch of the portio dura ("chorda tympani") panL ^ crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus (see p. 175). On the inner wall of the tympanum — that is, opposite to the membrana tympani — observe iu the dry bone the following objects: — Beginning from above there is an opening, called the "foramen ovale: " it leads into the vestibule of the internal ear, but is closed in the recent state by a membrane to which is at- tached the base of the stapes. Below the foramen ovale is a bony prominence called the "promontm'^"* Still lower is another opening, called the "foramen rotundum:" it leads into the tym- ■wardfl, and its point is fixed in a small hollow at the commencement of the mastoid cells. The stapes is horizontal, and its base is attached to the membrane covering the fenestra ovalis. * This promontory is occasioned by the first turn of the cochlea. Upon it ramifies the tympanic plexus of nerves formed by the sympathetic and the glosso-phai-yngeal. N N546 DISSECTION OP THE EAK. panic scale of the cochlea, but is closed in the recent state by mem- brane. Immediately behind the foramen ovale is a small conical eminence, named the "pyramid: " there is a minute aperture in the summit of it, from which the tendon of the stapedius emerges. Lastly, at the back part of the tympanum is the opening which leads into the air-cells of the mastoid process. The tympanum is supplied with blood by a branch of the in- ternal maxillary, which runs in through the fissura Griasseri; 2, by the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular; 3, by small branches which enter with the Eustachian tube. This, in consequence of its complexity, is very appro- Internai. pj-ja^^giy termed " the labyrinth." In a general way we may say that it consists of cavities excavated in the most compact part bf the temporal bone. These cavities may be divided into three—a middle one, called " the vestibule," as being a centre in which all communicate with each other; an anterior, named, from its resemblance to a snail's shell, the cochlea; and a posterior, consisting of three semicircular canals. These cavities are filled with a clear fluid, called the endo-lymph, and contaia a mem- branous expansion (the membranous labyrinth), upon which the filaments of the auditory nerve are expanded. The vestibule, or central chamber, communicates in Vestibule. ^^^^^ cochlea, through the scala cochleae; behind, with the semicircular canals ; on the outside with the tym- panum, through the foramen ovale ; on the inside, with the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus.* The semicircular canals, three in number, are situated camlf above and rather behind the vestibule. Each canal forms the greater part of a circle, and opens at each extremity into the vestibule: therefore, there should be six aper- tures for them; but, in point of fact, there are only five, since one of the apertures is common to the extremity of two canals. The canals are not precisely of equal diameter throughout; each pre- * In some instances there is the opening of a small canal into the vestibule, termed the "aqueduetus restibuH." It leads to the posterior surface of the temporal bone, and contains a small vein.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 547 N N 2 sents cat one end a dilatation termed the " amjpulla.'" This dila- tation is the most important part of the canal, because it corresponds to a similar dilatation of the membranous sac upon which the auditory nerve expands. Each canal differs in its direction : they are named accordingly superior, posterior, and external. The supenor s. c. is also the most anterior of the three : its direction is vertical, and rims across the petrous bone : the ampulla is at the outer extremity. The posterior s. c. is also vertical, runs parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone, and, consequently, at right angles to the preceding: the ampulla is at the lower end. The external s. c. is horizontal in position, with the convexity of the arch directed backwards: the ampulla is at the outer end. The cochlea is the most anterior part of the internal ear: it very closely resembles a common snail's shell, and is placed so that the base of the shell corresponds to the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus, while the apex is directed forwards and outwards. It consists of the spii-al convolutions of two parallel and gradually tapering tubes. The partition by which they are separated is termed the " lamina spiralis" In the dry bones this partition is only partial; but, in the recent state, it is completed by a membrane. At the very apex of the shell {/lelicotrema) the partition is altogether absent, so that here the tubes communicate with each other. These tubes are called the scales of the cochlea, and are filled with fluid. The one opens into the vestibule, and is therefore called the vestibular scale ; the other leads to the membrane which closes the foramen rotundum of the tympanum, and is termed the tympanic scale. If unwound, they would be about inch long. Each makes two turns and a half round a central pillar, from left to right in the right ear, and vice versa in the left. The central pillar of the cochlea is called the " modiolus." It is of considerable thickness at the base, but gradually tapers to- wards the apex. Its interior is traversed by numerous canals, for the purpose of transmitting the filaments of the auditory nerve. One of these canals, larger than the others, runs down the centre of the modiolus nearly to the apex.548 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The lamvna spiralis—the partition between the two tubes or scales of the cochlea—is made up, on the inner half, of bone, on the outer half, of membrane. The bony part has a number of minute canals in it, which come off at right angles from the modi- olus. They are for the lodgment of the filaments of the auditory nerve in their course to the membranous part, which is the most important element of the cochlea, since it receives the undulations of the fluid in the interior.* The osseous labyrinth is lined throughout by a delicate fibro- serous membrane, which secretes the fluid called the " peri-lymph." If the bony labyrinth just now described be properly Membranous understood, "we can have no difficulty in comprehending labyrinth. ' . , . ^ , the membranous labyrmth m its mterior—a structure intended to isupport the ultimate ramifications of the auditory nerve, and to expose them to the undulations of the fluid in the internal ear. The membranous labyrinth, then, is nothing more than a sac, situated in the vestibule f, and from this there pass ofi" three mem- branous semicircular canals within the bony ones. What was said of the bony canals applies equally to the membranous. They pre- sent the same dilatations or ampulla at one end, and just at this part they nearly fill their bony cases; but in the rest of their .* There is an extremely delicate little muscle, termed the " eochlearis," for the purpose of tightening or relaxing, according to circumstances, the membranous part of the lamina spiralis. It is placed along the outer circumference of the membrane, and, in fact, forms an integrant part of it. Its fibres are of the non-striped kind, like the ciliary muscle of the eye. See Todd and Bowman, Phys. Anat. Part iii. p. 79. t Strictly speaking, the sac in the Testibule is constricted, so as to appear like two sacs of unequal size. The larger of the two is generaUy caUed the common sinus, is nearer to the semi-circular canals, and communicates with them. The smaUer, called the saccule, is nearer to the cochlea, and communicates with its vestibular scale. Both sacs are fiUed with the endo-lymph, besides which, each contains a minute quantity of calcareous matter, caUed by Breschet the otoUthes. These masses of cretaceous substance seem to be suspended in the fluid contained in the sacs by the intermedium of a number of nerve-filaments proceeding from the auditory nerve. From the universal presence of these chall^y bodies in the labyrinth of aU the mammaha, and from their much greater hardness and size in aquatic animals, there is' little reason to doubt that they perform some office of great importance in the physiology of hearing.DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 549 N N 3 extent the diameter of the membranous canal is not more than one-third that of the bony one. The membranous labyrinth is protected, inside and out, by fluid. There is the proper fluid in the interior, termed the " endo-lymph," and the thin layer of fluid, the "peri-lymph," between it and the bone. D' ti-'b f on '^^^ auditory nerve, or portio mollis of the seventh of the audi- pair, passes down the meatus auditorius internus, and, tory nerve. bottom of it, divides into an anterior and a pos- terior branch: in other words, a branch for the cochlea, and a branch for the vestibule. These nerves then break up into nume- rous fasciculi, which pass through the foramina at the bottom of the meatus into the osseous labyrinth. Here the filaments are grouped into six bundles, corresponding to the parts which they supply—namely, .two for the vestibular sac, one for each of the ampullae of the semicircular canals, and one for the cochlea. The cochlear nerve divides into filaments, which run through the canals of the modiolus, and then along those of the lamina spiralis, in order to terminate upon the membranous part of this lamina. The precise manner in which the filaments terminate is still dubious : according to Breschet*, they communicate and form ■a series of minute arches. Eespecting the other nerves, little more need be said than that their ultimate ramifications are lost upon the vestibular sac and upon the ampullae of the semicircular canals : some of them, how- ever, pass into the sac, and come into contact with the otoconies, or ear-dust, in its interior. Blood ves "^^^ internal auditory artery—a branch of the basilar selsofthe —runs with the auditory nerve to the bottom of the labyrinth, j^gj^^^g^ qj^^ divides into branches corresponding with the divisions of the nerve. Its ultimate ramifications terminate, in the form of a fine network, on the membranous labyrinth, and on the spiral lamina of the cochlea. The auditory vein pours its blood into the superior petrosal sinus. * Eecherches Anat. et Phys. siir I'Organe de rOuie, &c. (Mdm. de I'Acad. de Med. t. V. fasc. iii. 1836.)550 DISSECTION OF THE MAMMARY GLAND. The form, size, position, and other external characters of the mammary gland, are sufficiently obvious. We would merely observe that the longest diameter of the gland is in a direction upwards and outwards towards the axilla; that the thickest part is at the centre; and that the fullness and roundness of the gland depend upon the quantity of fat which is situated about it and between its lobes. Its deep surface is flattened in adaptation to the pectoral muscle, to which it is loosely connected by an abun- dance of areolar tissue. It is enclosed by a fascia which not only supports it as a whole, but penetrate's into its interior, so as to form a framework for its several lobes: hence it is that, in cases of marhmary abscess, the matter is apt to be circumscribed, not diffused. The nipple projects a little below the centre; it is surrounded by a coloured circle termed the " areola : " this circle is of a rose- pink colour in virgins, but, in those who have borne children, of a dark brown. It begins to enlarge and grow darker about the second or third month of pregnancy, and these changes continue till parturition. The areola is also abundantly provided wdth papillae, and with subcutaneous sebaceous glands, for the purpose of lubricating the smface during the sucking of the child. ^ The gland itself consists of distinct lobes held together by iirm connective tissue, and provided with separate lactiferous ducts. Each lobe divides and subdivides into lobiiles, and the duct branches out accordingly.* Traced to their origin, we find that the ducts commence in clusters of minute cells, and that the blood-vessels ramify upon these cells in xich profusion; altogether, then, a single lobe might be compared to a bunch of grapes, of which the stalk represents the main duct. The main * It is observed, in some cases, that one or more lobiiles ran oflf to a considerable distance from the main body of the gland, and lie imbedded in the subcutaneoiis tissue. One should remember this when it is necessary to remove the eutii-e gland.DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 551 ducts from the several lobes, from fifteen to twenty in number, converge towards the nipple, and, just before they reach it, become dilated into small sacs or reservoirs two or three Imes wide; after this they run up to the apex of the nipple, and termmate m separate orifices. . The arteries of the gland are derived from the long thoracic and internal mammary: the nerves come from the cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. DISSECTION OF THE SCROTUM AND TESTIS. The scrotiim is composed of six tunics: — 1, The Srsc^oto 2, The tunica dartos; 3, A layer of cellular tissue; 4, The spermatic fascia derived from the ex- ternal abdominal ring; 5, The cremaster, or suspensory muscle; 6, The infundibuliform fascia derived from tbe internal ring. I do not mean to say that each of these coverings can be demon- strated under ordinary circumstances, because they are so blended together; but they can be shown in the case of old and large hernia when in a state of hypertrophy. The dartos is a thin layer consisting of muscular fibres Dartos. non-striped kind, like those of the bladder and intestines. Its use is to corrugate the loose and extensible skin of the scrotum, and in a measure to support and brace the testicle. Layer of Beneath the dartos is a large quantity of loose cellular ceUiilar tissue, remarkable for the total absence of fat. Together tissue. ^.^j^ ^j^g dartos, it forms a vertical partition between the testicles, termed " septum scroti" It is not a complete partition, since air or fluid will pass from one side to the other. The great abimdance and looseness of this tissue explains the enormous swelling of the scrotum in cases of anasarca, and in cases where the urine is effused into it in consequence of the urethra having given way. The cremaster muscle and infundibuliform fascia have been described (pp. 294, 298). M M 4DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 552 Testis '^^^ testicle is a gland of an oval shape, witli flattened sides, suspended obliquely, so tbat the upper end points forwards and outwards, the loAver end in the reverse direction. The left is generally a little the lower of the two, to obviate collision with its fellow. The ordinary weight of the gland is about six drachms; s Pig. 134. 1. Mediastinum testis contain- ing the rete testis. 2. 2. Trabeculi. 3. One of the lobules. 4,4. Vasa recta. t 5. Coni vascnlosi forming the "globus major" of the cpi- did}'mis. 6. Globus minor, or lower end of epididymis. 7. Vas deferens. DIAGEAM OF THE TESTICLE. Epididymis. but few organs present greater variations in size and Weight, even in men of the same age: generally speaking, the left is the larger. Along the posterior part of the gland is placed a long narrow body, termed the " epididymis: " this is not a part of the testicle, but an appendage to it, formed by the convo- lutions of its long excretory duct. Its upper larger end is called the "globus major," and is connected to the testicle by the efferent ducts; the lower end, "globus minor," is only connected to the testicle by .fibrous tissue. Proper co "^^^ proper coverings of the testicle, are—1, a serous verings of membrane, called the " tunica vaginalis," to facilitate t e testicle. movements; 2, a strong fibrous membrane, called the " tunica albuginea," to support and form a case for the glan- dular structure within; 3, a delicate stratum of minute blood-553 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. vessels, which some anatomists have described as a distinct coat under the name of tunica vasculosa. The tunica vaginalis is a serous sac, one part of which va^dis (tunica vaginalis proi^ria) adheres closely to the testicle ; the other (tunica vaginalis reflexa) is reflected loosely around it. If the sac be laid open, you see that it completely covers the testicle, except behind, where the vessels and duct are placed (fig. 134); and that it also covers part of the outer side of the epididymis. The interior of the sac is smooth and polished, like all other serous membranes, and lubricated by a little fluid. An excess of this fluid gives rise to.the disease termed " hydrocele." The tunica vaginalis was originally derived from the peritoneum. In some subjects it still communicates with that cavity by a narrow neck, and is therefore liable to become the sac of a hernia. Such hernise are termed congenital — a bad name, since tbey do not, as a matter of course, take place at birth, but often in adult age. Sometimes the communication continues through a very contracted canal, open to the passage of fluid only; or the communication may be only partially obliterated, and then one or more isolated serous sacs are left along the cord. Such an one, when distended by fluid, gives rise to hydrocele of the cord. This tunic is a dense, inelastic membrane, composed albuginea. fibrous tissue, interlacing in every direction, analogous to the sclerotic coat of the eye. It completely invests the testicle, but not the epididymis. At the posterior part of the gland it penetrates into its substance for a short distance, and forms an incomplete vertical septum, termed, after the anatomist who first described it, " corpus Highmori," and subsequently, by Sir A. Cooper, the " mediastinum testis " (fig. 134). This septum trans- mits the blood-vessels of the gland, and contains, also, the net work of seminal ducts, called the rete testis, shown in diagraiu 134. From the mediastinum testis are given off in all directions a number of slender fibrous cords, which traverse the interior of the gland, and are attached to the inside of the tunica albuginea. They serve to maintain the general shape of the testicle, to support the numerous lobules of which its glandular substance is composed.DISSECTION OF TUE TESTIS. 554 Fig. 135. Glandular structure. and to convey the blood-vessels into it. These tie-beams (trabeeuli testis), as well as the mediastinum from which they proceed, are readily seen on making a transverse section through the gland (fig. 135). Kespecting the so-called Tunica vas- , . ° ^, . culosa. tunica vasculosa, nothmg more need be said than that it consists of a multitude of fine blood- vessels, formed by the ramifications of the spermatic artery, and held together by delicate cellular tissue. It lines the inner svirface of the tunica albuginea, and gives off vessels which run with the fibrous cords, into the interior of the gland. "When the testicle is cut into, its interior looks soft and pulpy, and of a reddish- grey colour. It consists of an innume- rable multitude of minute convoluted tubes (tubuli seminiferi). For conve- nience of package, they are arranged in lobules, between four and five hundred* in number, of various sizes, and contained in the compartments formed by the fibrous cords proceeding from the mediastinum testis. Only a few of these lobules are shown in diagi-am 135. Though disposed in lobules, still they communicate with each other, and thus form one vast network of tubes. The secretion from them is carried off by some forty or fifty straight vessels (vasa recta), which penetrate the mediastinum testis, and there form a plexus of seminal tubes, termed the " rete testis." This lies along the back of the gland. From the upper part of the rete the secretion is carried away to the large end of the epididymis by fifteen or twenty tubes, termed, « vasa efferentia." These, after formmga T-astnum- * This estimate is according to Ki-ause, Miiller's Archiv. fiir Anat. 1837. TEANSVEBSB SECTION. THEODGH THE TESTICLE. (Diagrammatic.) 1. Spermatic artery. 2. Vas deferens. 3. Deferential artery. 4. Epididymis. 5. Mediastinum testis. G, 6. Cavity of tunica vaginalis. (The dots show the reflections of the tunica vaginalis.)DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 555 ber of coils, termed ^'coni vasculosi" which collectively consti- tute the globus major of the epididymis, ultimately terminate, one after the other, in a single duct, the commencement of the vas deferens. Commencing, then, in the globus major of the epididymis, the vas deferens descends, mtvking a series of extremely tortuous coils, which alone form the globus minor.* From the lower part of the globus minor the vas deferens ascends, joins the other component paiis of the spermatic cord, passes through the inguinal canal, winds round the back part of the bladder, and empties itself into the prostatic part of the urethra. The length of the vas deferens was estimated by Monro at upwards of thirty feet. The same anatomist calculated that the semen, before it arrived at the vas deferens, had to traverse a tube forty-two feet in length. S e matic '^^^ spermatic cord is composed of the spermatic cord. vessels, nerves, and absorbents, of the vas deferens, with the little deferential artery (a branch of the superior vesical), of the cremaster muscle and the cremasteric artery. Its coverings have been described with the anatomy of the parts of hernia, p. 292. The course of the spermatic arteries and veins has been described in the dissection of the Abdomen, p. 328. We will only observe that the artery is remarkably tortuous as it descends along the cord, that it enters the back part of the testicle, and breaks up into a multitude of fine ramifications, which spread out on the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. The spermatic veins leave the testicle at its back part, and, as they ascend along the cord, become extremely tortuous, and form a plexus termed " pampini- form." It is usually stated that these veins are destitute of valves ; and this fact is adduced as one of the reasons for the occurrence of " varicocele." But it is certain that the larger veins do contain valves. The absorbents of the testicle terminate in the lumbar glands : * A little blind duct, called vasculim abermns, is sometimes connected either to the epididymis or the vas deferens.DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 556 hence these glands become affected in malignant disease of the testicles. The nerves of the testicle are derived from the sympathetic. They run down from the abdomen with the spermatic arteries (p. 331). This accounts for the stomach and intestines sympathizing so readily with the testicle, and for the constitutional effects of an injury to it. The testicle is originally developed in the lumbar Se'Ticles. region, immediately below the kidneys; and it is loosely attached to the back of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum, termed the " mesorchium,'" along which its vessels and nerves run up to it, as to any other abdominal viscus. From the lower end of the gland there proceeds to the bottom of the scrotum, a contractile cord termed the " gubernaculum testis:'* By the gradual contraction of this, the organ is brought into the scrotum. It begins to slide down from the loins about the fifth month, reaches the ring about the seventh, and about the ninth has entered the scrotum. Its original peritoneal coat is retained throughout; but, as it enters the inguinal canal, the peritoneal Uning of the abdomen is pouched out before it, and eventually becomes the tunica vaginalis reflexa. Immediately after the descent of the testis, its serous bag communicates with the abdo- men, and in the lower animals continues to do so through lifcf But in the human subject the canal of communication soon begins to close. It begins to close at the top first, and the closure is generally compfete in a child born at its full time. The final purpose of this is to provide against the occurrence of ruptures, to which, man, from his erect attitude, is so much more exposed than animals. At the end of the first month after birth, the canal is * Mr CurUng considers the giibernacidiim testis to be a muscular cord See his Obseryations on the Structure of the Gubernac^ilum, and on the Descent of the Testis in the Foetus: Medical Gazette, April 10, 1841. , „. . , , ^ . n • ti,. t According to Professor Owen, the African orangoutan (Smta troglodytes) s the only exception to this rule. In this anin^al it is interesting to observe that the lower extremities are more fully developed as organs of support, and there is a hgamentum teres in the hip-joint.557 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. entirely obliterated from the abdominal ring to the testis. Some- times, however, this obliteration fails to take place, or is only- partial; hence may arise congenital hernia, or hydrocele. The possible existence of a communication between the tunica vaginalis and the peritoneal cavity of the abdomen, is the reason why we do not inject hydroceles in infants.INDEX. Abdomen, dissection of, 284. division into regions, 284. parts exposed on opening, 301. Abdominal muscles, 287. viscera, position of, 302. Abemethj first tied external Uiac, 332. Absorbent Glands axillary, 204. bronchial, 109. cervical, deep, 18. superficial, 4. concatenatiB, 18. of the elbow, 213. femoral, 412. inguinal, 285. internal mammary, 85. mediastinal, 87, 85. intercostal, 108. parotid, 62. lumbar, 326. pelvic, 326. pharyngeal, 129. popliteal, 457. submaxillary, 24. thyroid, 17. Achillis, tendo, 459. AmpulltB of semicircular canals, 547. Aneurism of arch of aorta, 93, Annulus ovalis, 113- Antrum pylori, 405. Aorta, arch of, 88. abdominal, 313, 326. thoracic, 101. APONEimOSES of abdominal muscles, 287. of the scalp, 154. pharyngeal, 129. of the thigh, 425. temporal, 67. vertebral, 181. Appendices epiploicje, 409. Appendix vermiformis, 305. glands in, 410. Arachnoid membrane of brain, 489. Arachnoid membrane of cord, 516. fluid, 489. Arbor vitse in the cerebellum, 510. in the uterus, 391. Arciform fibres of medulla, 514. Arantii corpus, 115. Arm, dissection of the, 197. Anus, glands of, 338. sphincter of, 339, 410. Arteries alar thoracic, 211. anastomotica magna of arm, 219. thigh, 438. angular of the face, 59. aorta, abdominal, 313, 326. arch of, 88. thoracic, 101. articular branches of popliteal, 461. ascending palatine, 23. pharyngeal, 32. cervical, 43. auditory, 490, 549. auricular anterior, 66. posterior, 32.INDEX. 560 Arteries (continued) axillary, 205. basilar, 490. brachial, 216. brachio-ecphalic, 90. bronchial, 127. capsular, 327. carotid, common, 12, 91. external, 29. internal, 77. carpal, anterior and posterior, 228, 230, 266. centralis retinse, 166. cerebral, anterior, 490. middle, 490. posterior, 491. cerebellar, inferior, 490. superior, 490. cervicalis profunda, 45. ciliary, 166. circle of Willis, 491. circumflex, anterior and posterior, 209, 254. external and internal, 436. circumflexa ilii, 289, 330, coeliac axis, 314. colica, dextra, 319. media, 319. sigmoidea, 319. sinistra, 319. comes nervi mediani, 230. phrenici, 85. ischiatici, 451. common carotid, 12. iliac, 328. communicating anterior, 490. posterior, 491. coronaria ventriculi, 314. coronary of the lips, 59. cremasteric, 299. crico-tbyroid, 30. cystic, 315. deep cervical, 45, 189. dental, inferior, 71. superior, 72. digital arteries of hand, 236. foot, 468. dorsalis hallucis, 445. penis, 349. Arteries (continued) dorsalis scapute, 209. linguaj, 29. epigastric, 298. ethmoidal, 166. external circumflex, 436. iliac, 329. facial, 23, 58. femoral, 433. frenum lingUEE, 29. gastro-epiploica, dextra, 314. sinistra, 315. glutseal, 449. hoemorrhoidal, superior, 319. middle, 363. inferior, 340. hepatic, 314. hyoid branch of lingual, 29. superior thyroid, 30. iliac, common, 328. external, 329. internal, 361. ilio-lumbar, 361. inferior or long thoracic, 208. mesenteric, 319. profunda, 219. infra-orbital, 65, 72. innominate, 90. intercostal aortic, 107. superior, 44. intercosto-phrenic, 85. internal circumflex, 436. carotid, 77. iliac, 361. mammary, 44, 84. maxillary, 70. pudic, 348. interosseous of fore-arm, 232. anterior and posterior, 232. dorsal, of carpus, 266. palmar, 244. ischiatic, 452. lachrymal, 166. laryngeal, superior, 30. lateralis nasi, 59. lateral sacral, 362. lingual, 28. how to tie, 24. long thoracic, 208.561 INDEX. xVrteries (continued) lumbar, 328. magna pollicis, 244. malleolar, 445. mammary, external, 208. internal, 44, 84. masseteric, 71. maxillary, external, 58. internal, 70. mediastinal, 85. medullary of humerus, 219. femur, 438, meningeal, anterior, 484. middle, 483. posterior, 484. parva, 71. mental, 65. mesenteric, inferior, 319. superior, 318. metatarsal, 445. nasal, 72, 166. obturator, 362, 439. occipital, 31. ophthalmic, 166. ovarian, 383. palatine, ascending, 23. descending, 72. ptcrygo, 72. palmar arch, superficial, 235, deep, 244. interosseous, 244, palmaris profunda, 244. palpebral, 166. pancreatico-duodenales, 315. pancreaticte parvte and magna, 315. perforating, of hand, 245. profunda, 437. peroneal, 463. pharyngeal, ascending, 32. phrenic, 327. plantar, external, 467. internal, 467. popliteal, 460. posterior auricular, 32. circumflex, 254. interosseous, 265. scapular, 44. tibial, 463. princeps cervicis, 32. 0 Arteries (continued) profunda femoris, 436. perforating of, 437. inferior of arm, 219. profunda superior of arm, 219. pterygo-palatine, 72. pubic branch of epigastric, 298. pudic, internal, 348. superficial of femoral, 414. pyloric, 314. radial, 227. recurrent, 228. radialis indicis, 244. ranine, 29. recurrent radial, 228. tibial, 444. ulnar, 229. renal, 327. sacra media, 363. septum nasi, artery of, 59. short thoracic, 200. spermatic, 328. in female, 383. splenic, 315. sterno mastoid, 30. stylo-mastoid, 32. subclavian, 37, 91. sublingual, 29. sub-mental, 23. sub-scapular, 208. superficial axillary, 202. circumflexa ilii, 285, 414. epigastric, 285, 414. pudic, 2815, 414. superficialis colli, 44, 251. perinei, 341. vol£B, 228. superior hemorrhoidal, 319. mesenteric, 318. supra-orbital, 166. scapular, 44, 250. sural, 461. tarsal, 445. temporal, superficial, 66. deep, 72. thoracic axis of, 200. thoracica acromialis, 200. alaris, 204. humcraria, 200. 0562 INDEX. Arteries (continued) thoracica, inferior or long, 208. superior, or short, 200. thumb, dorsal of, 2C7. thyroid axis, 43. superior, 30. inferior, 43. middle, 16. tibial, anterior, 444. posterior, 463. tonsillar, 23. transversalis colli, 44, 250. faciei, 60. humeri, 250. 43. perinei, 341. tympanic, 70, 32. ulnar, 229. recurrent, anterior and posterior, 229. ' ulnaris profunda, 245. uterine, 388. vaginal, 388. vasa brevia to stomach, 316. vertebral, 42. vesical, 363. vidian, 72, Arytenoid cartilages, 141. Auditory nerve, 527, 549. Auricle, right, 112. left, 116. Auriculo-ventricular opening, right, 114. left, 117. Axis, CEeliac, 314. thoracic, 200. thyroid, 43. Axilla, dissection of, 202. Back blood vessels of, 189. muscles of, 181. nerves of, 187, 245. Bands, intercolumnar, 294. Beclard, anecdote of, 20 Bell, Sir Charles, his nerves, 47. Bichat, fissure of, 504. Bile duct, 317. Bladder-gall, 399. Bladder, urinary, 356. axis of, 357. Bladder, urinary, blood vessels of, 309. female, peculiarities of, 385. ligaments, false, 351. true, 352. structure of, 366. trigone of, 369. uvula of, 368. Brachial plexus, 46. Brain dissection of the, 483. arteries of, 490. fissures of, 493. general division of, 492. membranes of, 483. names of parts at the base, 494. sinuses of, 484. peculiarities of circulation in, 492. white and grey matter of, 496. Bransby Cooper, case recorded by, 37. Bronchus, right and left 123. structure of, 124. Brown Sequard, researches of, 521. Brunn's glands, 409. Bulb of uretlira, 377. artery of, 349. of vagina, 381. Burns, Allen, his case, 17. BuKSiE of the biceps (arm) 276. under ball of great toe, 464. of the carpus, 241. under deltoid, 254. between fingers, 267. under glutteus maximus, 448. housemaids, 432. over the knuckles, 258. under latissimus dorsi, 247. over patella, 432. under ligamentum patellse, 432. over pomum Adami, 140. under sartorius, 426. under semimembranosus, 454. under subscapularis, 256. between toes, 470. Calamus scrlptorius, 508. Camper, his knowledge of the urethra, 372. Canals, alimentary, 304. of Fontana, 535.INDEX. 563 o 2 o Canals (continued) inguinal, 292. of Petit, 540. semicircular, 546. Caput coli, 305. gallinaginis, 370. Cardiac plexus of nerves, 109. Carotid, common, 12. external, 29. internal, 77. Caruncula lacrymalis, 54. Cauda equina, 517. Cavernous sinus, 157. Central line of the neck, 18. Cerebellum, 509, crura of, 510. Cerebrum, 493. crura of, 494. structure of crura, 524. Cervical fascia, 5. ganglia of sympathetic, 81. plexus, 33. superficial branches of, 4. Chambers of the eye, 539. Chest, dissection of, 82. Chordffi vocales, 142. tendineffi, 114. Choroid, coat of the eye, 532. plexus, 504. Ciliary arteries, 166. body, 538. ligament, 534. muscle, 51. processes, 538. Clitoris, 379. crura of, 379. Cochlea, 547. Coecum, 305, Ccecal (ileo) valve, 306. Colon, commencement of, 305. ascending, 305. descending, 305. transverse, 305. sigmoid flexure of, 306. structure of, 409. Columnse carnesE, 114. Commissures of the cerebrum, 496, 506. of the cerebellum, 510. Coni vasculosi testis, 555. Conjunctiva oculi, 529. Constrictors of the pharynx, 129. Cord spermatic, 555. spinal, 514. Cornea, 532. Coruicula laryngis, 142. Corona glandis, plexus of veins round, 378. Corpora geniculata, 505. Corpus Arantii, 115. callosum, 496. cavernosum, 375. Highmori, 553. mammillaria, 495. luteum, 394. rhomboideum, 510. spongiosum, 377. striatum, 501. Cowper's glands, 348, 371. in the female, 382. Crico-thyroid membrane, 19. Cricoid cartilage. 141. Crus penis, 375. artery of, 349. clitoridis, 379. Crura cerebri, 494. cerebelli, 510. Crural arch, 418. Crystalline lens, 540. Dartos, tunica, 551. Deglutition, mechanism of, 138. Digastric triangle, 21. Ddcts arteriosus, 121. communis choledochus, 317. ejaculatorius, 358. cystic, 317. of Cowper's glands, 371. hepatic, 317. lachrymal, 162, 178. nasal, 178. pancreatic, 320. parotid, 61. prostatic, 370. of Eivinus, 28. seminal, 370. of Steno, 61. sublingual, 28. submaxillary, 22.INDEX. 56i Ddcts (^continued) thoracic, 103. venosus, 121. of Wharton, 22. Duodenum, course of, 304. Dura mater of brain, 483. uses of, 483. arteries of, 483. sinuses of, 484. partitions formed by, 484. of spinal cord, 515. Duverney's glands, 382. Ear, dissection of the, 542. internal, 546. muscles of the, 155. Endocardium, 114. Endolymph, 546. Epididymis, 552. , Epiglottis, 142. ligaments of, 142. Eustachian tube, 137. valve of heart, 113. Eye, dissection of, 528. Eyelids, structure of the, 52. Eace, dissection of, 48. nerves of, 48. Eallopian tubes, 392. Ealx cerebri, 484. cerebelli, 484. Eascia axillary, 202. buccal, 58. cervical, 5. costo-coracoid? 199. cribiform, 415, 417. of foreaim, 224, 259. iliac, 325. infundibuliform, 298. of groin, 285. lata of thigh, 424. of the leg, 441. lumborum, 182, 248. mammary, 550, orbital, 160. parotid, 61. palmar, 233. perineal, superficial, 340, deep, 344. Eascia (continued) pharyngeal, 129. pelvic, 351. in female, 385. plantar, 465. popliteal, 453. propria of a femoral hernia, 422. spermatic, 294. superficial, of abdomen, 285. thigh, 412. perineum, 340. temporal, 67. transversalis, 296. thoracic, 101. of upper arm, 214. FlBEO-CAETILAGES of the ear, 542. of the eyelids, 53. intervertebral, 191. of the lower jaw, 196. of the knee, 476. of the nose, 175. between radius and ulna, 277. between sternum and clavicle, 271. tarsal, 53. of trachea, 124. Flexor tendons in the hand, 239. sheaths of ditto, 239. synovial lining of, 240. Eloor of the mouth, how formed, 24. Eoetal circulation, 121. Eontana's canal, 535. EoEAmNA ovale of heart, 113. tympanum, 445. rotundum, 445. of Soemmerring, 637. Winslow, 312. Monro, 503. Thebesius, 113. Eorearm, back of the 258, front of the, 223.' Fornix, 502. Fossa ischio-rectal, 349. Frenum linguaj, artery of 29, Erenum preputii, 375. Galen, veins of, 504. Gall bladder, 399.INDEX. 565 o o 3 Ganglia cervical of sympathetic, 81. dorsal ditto, 105. lumbar ditto, 331. pelvic ditto, 365. of Andersch, 173. Arnold's, 171. cardiac, 109. Cloquet's, 171. impar, 365. jugular, 172. lenticular, 167. Gasserian, 527. Meckel's, 170. olfactory, 525. otic, 171. petrous, 173. semilunar, 106,313. spheno-palatine, 170. submaxillary, 28. of Ribes, 81. Gastric juice, apparatus for secretion of, 406. Gimbernat's ligameat, 294, 418. Glands anal, 338. axillary, 204. of Brunn, 409. beneath the apex of tongue, 152. concatenatae, 18. Gowper's, 348, 371. in female, 382. Duverney's, 382. epiglottidean, 143. femoral, 412. inguinal, 285. iliac, 326. labial, 49. lachrymal, 162. of Lieberkiihn, 408. lingual, 152. lumbar, 326. mammary, 550. Meibomian, 54. mesenteric, 317. molar, 58. Naboth's, 391. palatine, 138. parotid, 60. pancreas, 319. Glands (^continued) of Pacchioni, 486. pineal, 506. pituitary, 495. Poyer's, 409. popliteal, 457. prostate, 359. solitary, 409. sublingual, 27. submaxillary, 22. thyroid, 15. tracheal, 125. Glans penis, 374. Glisson's capsule (liver), 397. Glottis, 144. Gluteal region, dissection of, 446. cutaneous nerves of, 447. Graafian vesicles, 394. Granular lids, 55. Gubernaculum testis, 556. Hamstring muscles, 453. Heart dissection of. 111. arteries of, 118. right am'icle, 112. left auricle, 116. blood, how supplied with, 118. fcEtal, 121. muscular fibres, how airanged, 11. nerves of, 109. position and form of, 94. rings of, 118. thickness of its cavities, 120. valves, positon of, 94. vessels, how attached to, 118. right ventricle of, 113. left ditto, 117. Helicotreraa, 547. Hernia inguinal parts concerned in, 291. coverings of, 299. seat of stricture, 300. changes produced by age in, 301. femoral, parts concerned in, 417. coverings of, 422. seat of stricture, 423. Hcrophili, torcular, 488. Hey's ligament, 416.INDEX. 566 Hippocampas major, 500. minor, 500. Horner's muscle, 52. Housten, his folds in the rectum, 411. Humour, aqueous, 539. viti'eous, 539. Hunter's canal, 434. Hyaloid membrane, 539. Hymen, 381. Jejunum inte&tinum, 305. glands of, 409. commencement of, 304. peculiarities of, 407. Ileo-coecal valve, 411. Ileum intestinum, 305. glands of, 409. termination of, 305. Infundibulum, 495. i Inguinal canal, 292. boundaries of, 298. rings, 292, 297. Intercostal muscles, 106. nerves, 108. Intervertebral fibro-cartilages, 191. Intestine, small, 304. large, 305. Intestinal canal, course of, 304. length of, 307. structure of, 405. Intestine, large, characters of, 409. course of, 305. Iris, 635. Ischio-rectal fossa, 349. Isthmus faucium, ia4. glandulsB thyroidcte, 15. Iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, 508. Joints acromio-clavicular, 271. ankle, 478. carpo-metacarpal, 280. crico-thyroid, 149. elbow, 274. fingers, 282. hip, 472. inter-carpal, 279. knee, 474. lower jaw, 195. Joints (continued)'. of the metatarsus, 480. occipital, 193. of pelvis, 470. of the ribs, 193. shoulder, 272. spine, 190. between spine and head, 193. sterno-clavicular, 270. symphysis, pubic, 471. sacro-iliac, 471. of the tarsus, 480. of the thumb, 280. tibio-fibulai-, 478. toes, 481. wrist, 277. Kidneys, position of, 320. relations of, 320. structure of, 402. Labia, majora, 378. minora, 379. Labyrinth, osseous, 546. membranous, 548. Lachrymal gland, 162. duct, 178. Lachrymal sac, how to puncture, 50. Lacteal vessels, 317. Lacuna of the urethra, 373. Lamina cinerea, 495. spiralis, 547. Laryngotomy, observations on, 19. Laetnx dissection of, 139. blood-vessels of, 148. cartilages of, 140. chordEE vocales of, 142. muscles of, 145. mucous membrane of, 143. nerves of, 148. sexual differences, 148. superior opening of, 143. ventricles of, 144. Leg, front of the, 440. Lens, crystalline, 540. capsule of, 541. Lenticular ganglion, 167.INDEX. 567 o 4 o Ligaments accessory of humerus, 273. of hip, 472. acromio-clavicular, 272. annular, anterior, of wrist, 237. posterior ditto, 2.59. annular of ankle, 441. of radius, 275. arcuata, 321. of the atlas and axis, 193. of the bladder, 350, 352. broad, in the female, 383. calcaneo-cubbid, 481. scaphoid, 481. ciliary, 534. conoid, 272. coraco-acromial, 272. coraco-clavicular, 272. coronary of livei', 302. knee-joint, 477. coraco-humeral, 273. costo-clavicular, 270, costO'tranverse, 194. cotyloid of the hip, 473. crucial, 476. of the flngMS, 282. falciform of liver, 302. Gimbernat's, 294, 418. glenoid of shoulder-joint, 274. fingers, 240. dentata, of cord, 517. external lateral, of ankle, 479. elbow, 275. jaw, 195. knee, 575. wrist, 277. Glosso-epiglottidean, 149. Hey's, 416. hyo-epiglottidean, 142. ilio-lumbar, 471. interclavicular, 270. internal lateral, of elbow, 275. ankle, 478, jaw, 196. knee, 475. wrist, 277. interosseous, of forearm, 276. leg, 478. carpus and metacai'pus, 279. LiGAJiENTS (^continued) interosseous tarsus and metatarsus, 480. the pelvis, 472. intervertebral fibro-cartilages, 191. lateral, of liver, 302. nucha;, 246. oblique of radius, 276. of occiput, 193. odontoid or check, 193. orbicular, of radius, 275. posticum Winslowii, 475. pterygo-maxillary, 57. of the ovary, 394. Poupart's, 288. patellae, 431. of the pubes, 471. of the ribs, 193, 195. round of liver, 302. round of uterus, 383. sacro-Uiac, 471. of spine, 190. stellate, 194. sterno-clavicular, 269. stylo-maxillary, 24. subflava, 191. suspensory, of liver, 302. transverse, of fingers, 234. teres, of the hip, 473. thyro-epiglottidean, 142. thyro-hyoid, 140 sacro ischiatic, greater, 472. lesser, 472. suspensorium penis, 375. tibio-fibula:-, 478. transverse metacarpal, 234, 267. triangular of urethra, 344. trapezoid, 272. Linea alba, 290. semilunaris, 290. * LinesE transversaj, 289. Liver, position of, 302. dissection of, 395. Locus niger, 524; perforatus anticus, 494. medius, 494. Lungs, 121. absorbents of, 128. lobules of, 125. nerves of, 128.568 INDEX. Lungs (continued) position and form of, 98. root of each, 111, 122. structure of, 121. Limulii of aortic valves, 116. Malpighian bodies in spleen, 401. kidney, 403. Mamma, dissection of the, 650. Mastication, muscles of, 65. Meatus auditorius, 543. urinarius, in female, 379. Mediastina, 85. anterior, 87. posterior, 101. Mediastinum, testis, 553. Medulla oblongata, 511. minute structure of, 521. Meibomian glands, 54. Membrana pupillari^, 536. Jacobi, 538, hyaloidea, 539. tympani, 54). Membranous labyrinth, 54S. Membranes of the brain, 483. cord, 515. Meningeal aiteries anteridi-, 484. middle, 483. posterior, 484. parva, 71. Mesentery, 308. Meso-colon, transverse, 308. Meso-ccecimi, 305. Mesorchium, 556. Mitral valve, 117, 94. Modiolus, 547. Mons Veneris, 378. Monro, foramen of, 503. Morgagni, sinuses of, 131. liquor of, 541, Mdscles abductor pollicis manus, 242. pedis, 466. minimi digiti manus, 243. pedis, 466. accelerator urinse, 341. accessorius pedis, 467. acccssorius ad sacrolumbalem, 183. Muscles (continued) adductor pollicis manus, 243. pedis, 469. adductors of thigli, 428. brcvis 429. longus, 428. magnus, 429. anconeus, 263. arytenoideus, 146. arytcno-epiglottideus, 147. of ball of tlmmb, 242. of ball of little fiager, 243; attollens aurem, 155. attrahens aurera, 155. azygos uvula3, 136. biceps, flexor cubiti, 214. cruris, 453. brachialis anticus, 216. buccinator, 56. cervicalis ascendens, 183. ciUary of the eye, 534. eyelid, 51. circumflexus or tensor palati, 135. coccygeus, 361. cochlearis, 548. complexus, 184. ^ compressor nasi, 56. urethras, 347. in the female, 380. constrictors of pharynx, 129. coraco-bi-achialis, 216. corrugator supercihi, 52. cremaster, 294. crico-arytenoideus lateralis, 146. posticus, 145. thyroid, 145. crurajus, 431. sub crureus, 431. Depressoii anguli oris, 49. labii inferioris, 50. superioris, 56. deltoid, 252, diaphragm, 321. erector penis, 343. clitoridis, 379. erector spinse, 182. digastricus, 20. dilatator narium, 56. ExTENSOK brcvis digitorum pedis, 443.569 INDEX, Muscles (continued) Extensor carpi radialis longior, 261. brevior, 261. carpi ulnaris, 262. communis digitorum manus, 261. digiti minimi, 262. indicis, 265. communis digitorum pedis, 442. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 264. primi internodii. 264. secundi internodii, 264. proprius pollicis pedis, 443. external oblique, 287. Flexok brevis minimi digiti manus, 243. minimi digiti pedis, 469. pollicis manus, 242. digitorum pedis, 466. pollicis pedis, 469. carpi radialis, 225. ulnaris, 226. longus digitorum pedis, 462. longus pollicis manus, 232. pedis, 462. ossis metacarpi pollicis, 242. profundus^ digitorum manus, 231. sublimis digitorum manus, 226. gastrocnemius, 458. gemelli, 450. . genio-hyoid, 25. genio-hyo-glossus, 26. gluteus maximus, 447. medius, 448. minimus, 448. gracilis, 427. hamstrings, 453. iliacus internus, 325. byo-glossus, 25. indicator, 265.' infra-spinatus, 255. intercostal, 106. internal oblique, 288. interosseous of hand, 267. foot, 469. intcrspinales, 186. intertninsversalcs, 186. Muscles (continued) latissimus dorsi, 247. laxator tympani, 545. Levatoii anguli oris, 56. anguli scapulae, 249. ani, 360. menti, 50. glandulas thyroideffi, 16. labii superioris et ate nasi, 55. labii superioris, 55. palati, 135. uvuliB, 136. levator palpebriB, 163. levatores costarum, 186. longissimus dorsi, 183. longus colli, 189. lumbricales of the hand, 242. foot, 467. masseter, 67. multifidus spiniB, 185. mylo-hyoideus, 24. obliquus externus, 287. internus, 288. obliquus inferior capitis, 187. superior capitis, 187. obliquus inferior oculi, 168. superior oculi, 163. obturator internus, 449. externus, 450. occipito-frontalis, 154. omo-hyoid, 10, 250. opponens digiti minimi, 243. opponens pollicis, 242. of the pinna of the ear, 542. orbicularis oculi, 51. oris, 49. pterygoid, 68, 69. palato-glossus, 136. pharyngeus, 136. palmaris brevis, 234. longus, 226. papillares, 114. pectinati auriculas, 112. pectineus, 428. pectoralis major, 198. minor, 204. pcroneus brevis, 445. • longus, 445„570 McsoLES (continued) pcroncus tcrtius, 443. plantaris, 459. platysma myoides, 1. popliteus, 461. pronator quadratus, 232. pra3-vertebral, 189. pronator radii teres, 225. psoas magnus, 324. parvus, 324. pyramidalis nasi, 52. abdominis, 290. pyriformis, 449. quadratus lumborum, 325. sheath of, 325. femoris, 450. rectus abdominis, 289. sheath of, how formed, 290. capitis aiiiticus, major and minor, 190. lateralis, 187. posticus, major and minor, 186. femoris, 430. recti muscles of the eye, 163. risorius, 48. rhomboid, major and minor, 249. rotatores spinse, 186. sacro-lumbalis, 183. sartorius, 426. scalenus anticus, 35, medius, 35. posticus, 36. semimembranosus, 454. semispinalis colli, 185. dorsi, 185. semitendinosus, 454. serratus magnus, 251. posticus inferior, 181. superior, 181. soleus, 459. sphincter ani, external, 339. internal, 410. spinalis dorsi, 184. splenius capitis, 181. colli, 181. stapedius, 545. sterno-cleido mastoideus, 7- thyroid, 10. Muscles (continued) stylo-glossus, 76. hyoid, 22. pharyngcus, 76. sub-anconeus, 257. subclavius, 201. sub-crura3us, 431. subscapularis 205, 256. supinator radii longus, 227. brevis, 263. supra spinatus, 255. temporal, 68. tensor fasciae femoris, 429. tensor tarsi, 52. tympani, 545. palati, 135. teres major, 204, 255. minor, 255. thyro-arytenoideus, 147. hyoid, 12. tibialis anticus, 442. posticus, 462, trachelo-mastoid, 183. transversalis abdominis, 289. colli, 183. pedis, 469. transverso-spinalis, 184. transvevsus perinei, 343. trapezius, 246. triangularis sterni, 84. triceps extensor cubiti, 257. femoris, 430. vastus internuci, 431, externus, 431. zygomatic!, 50. Naboth, glands of, 391, ovula of, 391. Nasal duct, 178. Nates and testes, 506. Nerves accessory, 8. anterior crural, 333, 438. dental, 170. thoracic, 201, auditory, 527, 549. auricular of Arnold, 174. auriculo-parotidcan, 4. axillary plexus of, 206.571 INDEX. Nerves (continued) brachial plexus of, 207. buccal, 74. cardiac branches of pneumogosti-ic, 80. cerebral, origins of, 525. cervical branch of facial, 5. plexus of, 33. cervico-fucial, 64. chorda tympani, 175 ciliary, long, 165. short, 167. coccygeal, 188. circumflex, 210, 254. cranial, exit of, 156. descendens noni, 14. dental anterior, 170. inferior, 75. posterior, 169. eighth pair at base of skull, 172, 528. external cutaneous, of arm, 221. leg, 440. musculo-spiral, 211. thigh, 333, 424. external laryngeal, 31. respiratory, of Bell, 47, 205 saphenous, 458. fifth pair, 527. fourth pair, 162, 527. frontal, 161. genito-crural, 333. glosso-pharyngeal, 77, 172. glutseal superior, 449. great ischiatic, 450. occipital, 155. petrosal, 171. gustatory, 28, 75. hypo-gastric plexus, 331. hypo-glossal, 27, 528. ■ ilio-hy]iogastric, 287. inguinal 287. inferior dental, 75. inferior laryngeal, 80. maxillary, 73. infra orbital of the fifth, 64. portio dura, 63. trochlear, 165. intercostal, 108. costo-humeral, 203. Neeves (continued) internal cutaneous of arm, 211. lesser ditto, ditto, 211. cutaneous of thigh, 424, 434. interosseous anterior of forearm, 231. posterior of ditto, 266. ischiatic-great, 450. lesser, 452. Jacobson's, 174. lachrymal, 161. lesser petrosal, 172. ischiatic, 452. long saphenous, 434. long pudendal, 340. lumbar plexus, 331. lumbo-sacral, 364. median, 220, 231, 238. malar, 162. masseteric, 73. mental, 65. middle cutaneous, of thigh, 424. molles, 59. musculo-spiral or radial, 223. mylo-hyoidean, 75. maxillary inferior, 73. superior, 168. nasal, of Meckel's ganglion, 171, the ophthalmic, 165. naso-lobular, 48. naso-palatine, 171. neck, cutaneous of, 5. ninth pair, 528. obturator, 333, 439. occipitalis minor, 4. major, 155. olfactory, 180, 525. optic, 165, 526. ophthalmic branch of the fifth, 161. orbital branch of superior maxillary, 168. palatine, 169, 170. palmar branch of median, 231. peroneal, 446, 456. petrosal, greater, 171. lesser, 172. phrenic, 36. difference between right and left, 91. plantar external, 468.572 INDEX. Nerves (continued) plantar internal, 468. pneiimogastric iu the neck, 78. chest, 104. at base of skull, 174. popliteal, 456. portio dura, 63, 175. mollis, 527, 549. posterior auricular, 32. dental, 169. interosseous, 265. saphenous, 458. tibial, 465. pterygoid, 74. pudic, 349. pulmonary, 105. radial or musculo-spiral, 223. below the elbow, 228. recurrent, 80, 104. rhombrid, 47. sacral plexus, 364. sixth pair, 527. scvenfti pair, 527. splanchnic, 106. spermatic, 556. spinal, 108, 519. subscapular, 209. superficialis colli, 5. perinei, 341. superior laryngeal, 31. maxillary, 168. supra-clavicular, 197. orbital, 64, 155. scapular, 47, 250. trochlear, 161. sympathetic system of, 80. in the neck, 81. chest, 105. abdomen, 331. in the pelvis, 365. temporal, to muscle, 73. superficial, 155. temporo-auricular, 75. temporo-facial, 63. malar, 168. third pair, 167, 527. tibial anterior, 444. tympanic, 174. ulnar, 222, 230, 237, 245. Neeves (continued) vidian, 171. of Wrisbcrg, 211, Nipple, 550. 'Nose dissection of, 175. blood-vessels of, 179. cartilages of, 175. meatus of, 177. mucous or Schnciderian membrane, 178. posterior openings of, 132. veins of, 179. Nuchas ligamentum, 246. Nymphce, 379. CEsophagus, 103. CEsophageal arteries, 109. Olives, or olivary bodies, 513. Olfactory nerves, 525. Ojientdm gastro-hepatic, 309. gastro-splenic, 309. great, 308. lesser, 309. Optic nerves, 526. Orbit dissection of, 159. muscles of, 160. nerves of, 160. periosteum of, 159. Os-hyoides, 139. Os tincise, 387. Otic ganglion, 171. Otolithes, 548. Ovaries, 394. Oviducts, 392. Pacchioni, glands of, 486. Pacini, corpuscles of, 238. Palm of the hand, 233. Palate hard, 137. dissection of, 134. arches of, 135. glands of 138. muscles of, 135. Palpebral arteries, 166. Panizza, mercurial injections of, 374. Parotid gland, 60.573 index: Pai-otid gland, relations of, 60, Paralysis, cross explanation of, 513. Pancreas, 303, 319. Patella, structures covering the, 432. bursa over, 43'2. Pelvic viscera, side view of, 350. in the female, 383. Pelvis, pui-poses served by, 333. contents of male, 334. female, 382. Penis, 374. corpus cavernosum, 375. corpus spongiosum, 375. glans, 374. Pericardium, 97. objects exposed when laid open, 95. Peri-lymph of the ear, 549. Pekinedm male, 337. boundaries of, 337. cutaneous vessels and nerves of, 339. tendinous centre of, 340. triangle of, 341. Peritoneum, 30V. course of, in male, 309. in female, 384. lesser cavity of, 312. course in the female pelvis, 384. Pes anserinus, 63. Petit, canal of, 540. Peyer's glands, 409. Pharyngeal plexus, 77. Pharynx dissection of, 128. aponeurosis of, 131. muscles of, 129. Phrenic nerve, 36. Pigmentum nigrum, 534. Pinna of the ear, 542. Pia mater, 489. of cord, 516. Platysma myoidcs, 1. Pleura, 100. reflections of, 100. Plexus of Nertes axillary, 206. brachial, 207. cardiac, 109. cavernous or carotid, 159. cervical, 33, Plexus of Nerves (continuetF) choroid, 504. coronary, 110. htemorrhoidal, 331, 365. hypogastric, 331. lumbar, 331. oesophageal, 105. pharyngeal, 77, prostatic, 365. pulmonary, 105. sacral, 364. solar, 313. uterine, 331. vaginal, 331. vesical, 331, 36.5. Pomum Adami, 140. Popliteal space, 456. Portio dura nerve, 63. PorttB vena, 316. Pqeumo-ga&tric nerve, 78. Pons Varolii, 511. structure of, 524. Poupart's ligament, 288. Praecordial region, 95. Prepuce, 374. frenum preputii, 375. clitoridis, 379. Processus a cerebello ad testes. 507. Promontory of the tympanum, 545. Prostate gland, 359. • structure of, 369. veins about, 353. Pudenda, female, 378. Pulsation, real and apparent, of a tumour, 18. Puncta lachrymalia, 53, Pylorus, 405. Pyramid in the ear, 546. Pyramids, anterior, 512. posterior, 513. Eanula, nature of, 23. Eeceptaculum chyli, 103. Eecto-vesical pouch, 335, Rectum, 335. relations of, 355, structure of, 410. fold of mucous membrane in, 411 Reil, island of, 494. fillet of, 522,574 INDEX. Eenal capsule, position of, 304. structure of, 404. Restiform tracts, or columns, 513. Ecte testis, 554. mirabilc of Galen, 492. Retina, 536. Rima glottidis, 142. Ring, external abdominal, 292, internal abdominal, 297. femoral, 420. fibrous, of the heart, 118. Risorius, musculns, 48. Rule for finding lingual artery, 25. Saccule of the labyrinth, 548. Santorini's, muscle, 49. Saphenous opening of fascia lata, 415. Scalp dissection of, 153. absorbents of, 156. blood-vessels of, 154. nerves of, 155. surgical interest of, 155. Scarpa's triangle, 426. Sclerotic coat of the eye, 530. Semicircular canals, 546. Septum lucidum, 502. pectiniforme, 376. Scrotum, structui-e of, 55L septum of, 551. Sinuses of the brain, 484. Morgagni (pharyngeal), 131. Valsalva, 116. Sheath of femoral vessels, 420. Shoulder, dissection of, 252. Socrates, his description of the eyelids, 55 Soemmerring, foramen of, 537. Spheno-maxillary region, 68. Spheno-palatine ganglion, 170. Sphincter ani, internal, 410. external, 339. Spinal cord, 514. nerves, 519. Spine, ligaments of, 190. Spleen, position of, 303. structure of, 400. Steno's duet, 61. Stomach, 303. blood-vessels of, 316. Stomach, structure of, 405. Stylo-maxillary ligament, 24. Sublingual salivary gland, 27. Submaxillary ganglion, 28. gland, 22. region, 20. Supra-clavicular region, 34. Sympathetic nerve, 80. in the neck, 81. chest, 105. abdomen, 331. Sympathetic nerve in the pelvis 365. Symphysis pubis, 471. sacro-iliac, 471. Taauia, semicircularis, 501. Hippocampi, 503. Tarsal cartilages, 53. ligaments, broad, 53. Temporal region, 65. Tcndo-Achillis, 459. oculi, 50. Tentorium cerebelli, 484. Testicle, 552. coverings of, 552. descent of, 556. Thalamus opticus, 505. Thigh, dissection of, 412. back of the, 453. . Thoracic duct, 103. Thyroid, axis of arteries, 43, body, 15. cartilage, 140. Tongue, 149, Tonsils, 136. Torcular HerophUi, 488, Trachea, 123. Tracheotomy, observations on, 19. Transverse meso-colon, 308. Triangles of the neck, 8. posterior of the neck, 33, at the elbow, 225. of the perineum, 341. of Scarpa, 426. Triangular ligament of urethra, 344. Tricuspid valve, 114. Trigone of bladder, 356, 369. Tubes, Fallopian, 392. Tunica albuginea, 553.INIjEX. 575 Tunica vaginalis scroti, 553. vasculosa scroti, 554. Rnyschiana, 533. Tuber annulare, 511. cinereum, 495. Tubercula quadrigemina, 506. Tympanum of the ear, 543. membrane of the, 544. muscles of the, 545, Tympanic artery, 70. bones, 544. Umbilical artery, remains of, 296. Upper arm, dissection of, 211, Uterus, position of, 387. appendages of, 383. broad ligaments of 383. round ligaments of, 383, blood-vessels of, 388. nerves of, 388. absorbents of, 388. structure of, 390. Urachus, 296. Ureter, 357. Urethra, 372. in the female, 379, 385. Utriculus, 370. Uvea, 535. Uvula, 134. cerebelli, 510. vesica, 368. Vagina, 381, 386. bulb of, 381. structure of, 389. Valsalva, sinuses of, 116. Valves of coronary vein, H3. Eustachian, 113. ilio-ccecal, 411. mitral, 94, 117. pulmonary, 94, 115. semilunar of aorta, 94, 117. of Tarini, 510. of Thebesius, 113. tricuspid, 94, 114. of Vieussens, 508. ValvuljB conniventes, 407. Vas deferens, 358. Vasa efferentia testis, 554. Vasa recta testis, 554. vorticosa oculi, 533, Veins anterior jugular, 3, auditory, 549, axillary, 206, 211, azygos major, 102. minor, 102. basilic, 213. brachial, 220. brachio-cephalic, 87. bronchial, right and left, 128. capsular, 327. cava superior, 88. inferior, 327. cephalic, 200. choroid of the eye, 533. coronary, 119. common iliac, 329. dorsalis penis, 377. external jugular, 2. saphena, 458. facial, 60. femoral, 433. of Galen, 504. hsemorrhoidal, 356. of the hand, 223. inferior mesenteric, 319. iliac, common, 329. external, 329. innominate, or brachio-cephab'c, 87, intercostal, superior, 45. internal jugular, 14. internal maxillary, 72. jugular, anterior, 3. external, 2. internal, 14. lingual, 29. lumbar, 328. mammary, internal, 44. maxillaiy, internal, 72. median, 213. basilic, 213. cephalic, 213. occipital, 32. ophthalmic, 167. pampiniform plexus of, 555. pharyngeal, 129. popliteal, 461.INDEX. 576 Veins {continued) posterior scapular, 44. saphena, 458. portal, 316. phrenic, 327. profunda femoris, 436. prostatic plexus of, 353. radial, superficial, 224. renal, 327. saphena, 414. spermatic, 328, 555. splenic, 316. spinal system of, 515. subclavian, 46. superior intercostal, 45. mesenteric, 316. supra scapular, 44. thyroid, middle, 16. superioi'', 31. inferior, 44. ulnar, superficial, 224. vaginal plexus of, 385. vena cava, superior, 88. inferior, 327. vertebral, 43. Velum interpositum, 504. Venesection, anatomy of, 213. Ventricles lateral of brain, 498. third ditto, 505. fourth ditto, 508. fifth ditto, 502. of the larynx, 144. heart, right, 113. left, 117. Vermiform, appendix, 305. Vermiform, eminences of cerebellum, 509. Vertebral aponeurosis, 181. Vesiculse seminales, 359. structure of, 371. Vesicles, Graafian, 394. Vestibule of the ear, 546. Vieussens, valve of, 508. Villi of small intestines, 408. structure of, 408. Vocal cords, 142. Wharton's duct, 22. Whitlow, proper incision in, 239. Willis, circle of, 491. Winslow, foramen of, 312. Wrisberg, nerve of, 211. Zinn, zone of, 540. THE END. PRINTED LONDON BY S 1* 0 TT I 8 W 0 0 D B NliW-STKRBT SyUARK, AND C 0.London, New Burlington Street, October, 1801. IN MEDICAL AND THE COLLATERAL SCIENCES. '■■ It would be unjust to conclude this notice without saying a few words in favour of Mr. Churchill, from whom the profession is receiving, it may be truly said, the most beautiful series of Illustrated Medical Works which has ever been published.''—Lancet. " All the publications of Mr. Churchill are prepared with so much taste and neatness, that it is superfluous to speak of them in terms of commendation." — Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. " No one is more distinguished for the elegance and recherche style of his publica- tions than Mr. Churchill."—Provincial Medical Journal. "Mr. Churchill's publications are very handsomely got up: the engravings are remarkably well executed."—Dublin Medical Press, "The typography, illustrations, and getting up are, in all Mr. Churchill's publi- cations, most beautiful."—Monthly Journal of Medical Science. " Mr, Churchill's illustrated works are among the best that emanate from the Medical Press."—Jkfedica/ Times. " We have before called the attention of both students and practitioners to the great advantage which Mr. Churchill has conferred on the profession, in the issue, at such a moderate cost, of works so highly creditable in point of artistic execution and scientific merit."—£>Mfi/i» Quarterly Journal.I^SSPs— ——JO--'5;^: Mr. Churchili, is the Publisher of the following Periodicals, offering to Authors a wide extent of Literary Announcement, and a Medium of Advertisement, addressed to all Classes of the Profession. Communications, Books for Review, addressed to the respective Editors, are received and duly forwarded by Mr. Churchill. THE BRITISH AND FOREIGN MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL REVIEW, AND QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Price Six Shillings. Nos. I. to LV. THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF MICROSCOPICAL SCIENCE. Edited by Edwin Lankestee, M.D., F.R.S,, F.L.S., and George Busk, F.R.C.S.E., F.R.S., F.L.S. Price 4s. Nos. I. to IV. New Series. %* A few Nos. of the Old Series are out of print; the others may be obtained. THE JOURNAL OF MENTAL SCIENCE. Published by authority of the Association of Medical Officers of Asylums and Hospitals for the Insane. ■ -n n Edited by John Charles Bucknill, M.D. Published Quarterly, price Half-a-Crown. New Series. Nos. I. to III. Archives of medicine: A Record of Practical Observations and Anatomical and Chemical Researches, connected with the Investigation and Treatment of Disease. Edited by Lionel S. Bealb, M.B., F.R.S. Published Quarterly, price 2s. 6d. from No. IX.; Nos. I. to VIII., 3s. 6d. THE ROYAL LONDON OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL REPORTS, AND JOURNAL OF i I OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. M ^ Published Quarterly, price 2s. Nos. I. to XV. X I THE MEDICAL TIMES AND GAZETTE. ^ Published Weekly, price Sevenpence, or Stamped, Eightpence. L Annual Subscription, £\. 1 Os., or Stamped, £1. 14s. M., and regularly forwarded to all parts '1' of the Kingdom. . The Medical Times and Gazette is favoured with an amount of Literary and Scientific support which enables it to reflect fully the progress of Medical Science and insure for it a character, an influence, and a circulation possessed at the present time by no Medical Peri- odical. ■™""' _ ,, _ THE HALF-YEARLY ABSTRACT OF THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. Being a Digest of the Contents of the principal British and Continental Medican^ orks; together with\ Critical Report of the Progress of Medicine and the Col ateral Sciences. Edited by W. H. Ranking, M.D., Cantab., and C. B. Radouffe, M.D., Lend. Post 8.o. cloth, 6s. 6d. Vols. I. to XXXIII. THE PHARMACEUTICAL JOURNAL. EDITED BY JACOB BELL, F.L.S., M.R.I. New Series. Published Monthly, price One Shilling. Vols. I. to XX., bound in cloth, price I2s. 6d. each. THE BRITISH JOURNAL OF DENTAL SCIENCE. Published Monthly, price One Shilling. Nos. I. to LXIII. THE DUBLIN MEDICAL PRESS. f Published Vi^eekly, Stamped, price Sixpence, free to any part of the Empire. THE MEDICAL DIRECTO*Ry"7S^THE UNITED KINGDOM. I Published Annually. 8vo. cloth, 10s. Gd. L — i^^-^iS^-,A CLASSIFIED INDEX TO ANATOMY. PAOK Anatomical Remembrancer .. 3 Beale on Liver 5 Flower on Nerves 12 HassaU's Jlicros. Anatomy .. 14 Holdeu's Human Osteology .. 15 Do. on Dissections .. ..15 Jones' and Sieveking's Patho- logical Anatomy 17 Maclise's Stu-gical Anatomy .. 19 Paget's Catalogue 21 Sibson's Medical Anatomy .. 25 Waters' Anatomy of Lung .. 29 Wheeler's Anatomy for ArHsts 30 Wilson's Anatomy 30 CHEMISTRY. Abel & Bloxam's Handbook .. 3 Bowman's Practical Chemish7 7 Do. Medical do. .. 7 Fownes' Manual of Chemistry.. 12 Do. Actonian Prize .. ..12 Do. Qualitative Analysis .. 12 Fresenius'Chemical Analysis.. 12 Galloway's First Step .. ..12 Do. Analysis 12 Griffiths'Four Seasons .. ,.13 Horsley's Cliem. Philosophy .. 16 Jones.—Mulder on Wine.. .. 17 Odling's Practical Chemisti7 ..21 Plattner on Blowpipe .. .. 22 Speer's Pathol. Chemistry .. 26 CLIMATE. Barker on Worthing 4 Bennet on Men tone 6 Dalrymple on the Climate of ^ ^STPt 10 Francis on Cliange of Climate.. 12 Hall on Torquay 14 HavUand on Climate.. .. . .14 Lee on Climate .'.' 18 McClelland on Bengal .. .". 19 McNicoll on Southport .. ] ] 19 Martin (J. E.) on Tropical .. 20 Taylor on Pau 27 DEFORMITIES, &c. Bigg on Deformities 6 Bishop on Defoi-mities .. . . 6 Do. Articulate Sounds .. 6 Brodhurst on Spine .... .. 7 Do. on Clubfoot '.. . '. 7 Godfrey on Spine 13 Hare on Spine . .14 Hugraan on Hip Joint .. !. 16 Inman on Myalgia 10 Tamplin on Spine .. .. i . 26 DENTISTRY. Clark's Odontalgist .... g Gray on the Teeth .. . , [[ 13 Tomes'Dental Surgery . .' , , 28 -im^^ 1__ DISEASES of the URINARY and GENERATIVE ORGANS, and SYPHILIS. PAOE Acton on Urinary Organs .. 7 Do. on Reproductive Organs 3 Coote on Syphilis 10 Coulson on Bladder 10 Do. on Lithotomy .. .. 10 Gant on Bladder 13 Judd on Syphilis 17 Milton on Gonorrhoea .. .. 20 Parker on Syphilis 21 Wilson on Syphilis 31 DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. Ballard on Infants and Mothers 4 Barker on Children 4 Bennet on Uterus 6 Do. on Uterine Pathology.. 6 Bird on Childi-eu 7 Blake on the Skin in Children 7 Eyre's Practical Remarks .. 11 Hood on Scarlet Fever .. .. 16 Lee's Ovarian & Uterine Diseases 18 Lee on Diseases of Uterus .. 18 Do. on Speculum is Smith on Leucon'hcea .. .. 25 Tilt on Diseases of Women .. 27 Do. on Change of Life .. ,. 27 Underwood on Children .. .. 28 West on Women 30 HYGIENE. Armstrong on Naval Hygiene 4 Beale's Laws of Health .. .. 6 Do. Health and Disease .. 5 Bennet on Nutrition 0 BlundeU's Medicina Mechanica 7 Carter on Training 8 Chavasse'sAdvicetoaMother.. 9 Do. Advice to a Wife .. 9 Granville on Vichy 13 Hartwig on Sea Bathing .. .. 14 Do. Physical Education 14 Hufeland's Art 10 Lee'sWatering Places of England 18 Do. Rhenish Watering Places 18 Parkin on Disease 21 Pickford on Hygiene .. .. 22 Robertson on Diet 24 Routh on Infant Feeding.. .. 24 Ramsey's State Medicine .. .. 24 Wells' Seamen's Medicine Chest 29 Wife's Domain 30 Wilson on Healthy Skin .'. .'. 31 Do. on Mineral Waters .. 31 Do. on Turkish Buth .. .. 31 MATERIA MEDICA and PHARMACY. PAOB Bateman's Magnacopia .. .. 5 Beasley's Fonnulary 5 Do. Receipt Book .. .. 5 Do. Book of Prescriptions 5 Pereira's Selecta e Prasscriptis 22 Phannacopoeia Londinensis .. 22 Prescriber's Piai-macopoeia .. 22 Royle's Materia Medica .. .. 24 SteggaU's First Lines for Che- mists 26 Stowe's Toxicologioal Chart .. 26 Taylor on Poisons 27 Wittstein's Pharmacy .. ..31 MEDICINE. Adams on Rheumatic Gout .. 3 Addison on Supra-Renal Capsules 3 Addison on Cells 3 Anderson on Fever 3 Barclay on Medical Diagnosis.. 4 Barlow's Practice of Medicine 4 Basham on Dropsy 4 Beale on Urine 5 Bird's Urinary Deposits .. .. 6 Brinton on Stomach 7 Do. on Ulcer of do 7 Budd on the Liver 8 Do. on Stomach 8 Caraplin on Diabetes 8 Chambers on Digestion .. .. 8 Davey's Ganghonio 11 DobeU's Germs and Vestiges of Disease 11 Eyre on Stomach 11 Fuller on Rheumatism .. ., 12 Gairdner on Gout 12 Gibb on Throat 13 Granville on Sudden Death .. 13 Gully's Simple Treatment .. 13 Habershon on Stomach .. ..13 Do. on Mercury .. .. 13 Hall on Apnoea 13 Hall's Observations 13 Harrison on Lead in Water .. 14 Hassall on Urine 14 Headl.md on Medicines .. ..14 Hooper's Medical Dictionary .. 16 Hooper's Physician's Vade- Jlecum 13 Hughes on Blood Disease .. 16 Inman's New Theory .. ..16 James on Laryngoscope .. ..17 Jones'Animal Chemistry .. 17 Lugol on Scrofula 19 Marcet on Chronic Alcoholism. 19 Parkes on Urine 21 Peacock on InHucnza .. ..21 Pym on Yellow Fever .. .. 23 Roberts on Palsy 24 Robertson on Gout 24 Savory's Compendium ,. .. 24 Somple on Cough 25 Shaw's llemembrancer .. ..25CLASSIFIED INDEX. MEDICINE—continued. Smeo on Debility 2.") Stcsgall's Medical Manual .. 26 Steggall's Gregory's Conspectus 2G Do. Celsus 20 Tliomas' Practice of Physic .. 27 Thudichum on Urine .. .. 28 Todd'a Clinical Lectures .. .. 28 Wegg's Obsei'vations 29 Wells on Gout 29 Wliat to Otisei-ve 19 Wliiteliead on Transmission .. 30 Williams' Principles 30 OPHTHALMOLOGY. Wiight on Headaches 31 PAOE . . 10 .. 10 .. 10 .. 11 .. 15 .. 15 15 Cooper on Injuries of Eye Do. on Near Sight .. . Dalrymple on Eye Dixon on the Eye Hogg on Ophtlialmoscopo Holthouse on Strahismus .. Do. on Impaired Vision Jacoh on Eye-ball Jago on Ocular Spectres .. ..16 Jones' Ophthalmic Medicine .. 17 Do. Defects of Sight .. ..17 Do. Eye and Ear 17 Nunneley on the Organs of Vision 21 Walton on the Eye .. ..' .. 29 MICROSCOPE. Beale on Microscope in Medicine Do. How to Work .. .. Carpenter on Microscope .. .. Schacht on do. .... MISCELLANEOUS. Acton on Prostitution (.. .. 3 Atkinson's Bibhography .. .. 4 Bascome on Epidemics .. .. 4 Bryce on Sebastopol 8 Cooley's Cycloptedia 9 Forbes' Natureand Art in Disease 12 ■Guy's Hospital Reports .. ..13 Haycock's Veterinary .. .■ '4 Lane's Hydropathy .. .- » Lee on Homoeop. and Hydrop. 18 MarcetonFood '9 Massy on Recruits 20 Part's Case Book 21 Pettigrew on Superstitions .. 22 NERVOUS DISEASES AND INDIGESTION. Birch on Constipation ; .. • ■ 6 Carter on Hysteiia * Child on Indigestion .. •■ J Downing on Neuralgia .. •• Ji Hunt on Heartburn \° Leared on Imperfect Digestion 18 Lobb on Nervous Affections . Radcliffe on Epilepsy .. . Reynolds on the Brain .. . Do. on Epilepsy . ■ • Rowe on Nervous Diseases . Sleveking on Epilepsy .. • Turnbull on Stomach . ■ . PHYSIOLOGY. Carpenter's Human 8 Do. Comparative .. .. 8 Do. Manual 8 Heale on Vital Causes .. .. 15 Hilton on the Cranium .. .. 15 Richardson on Coagulation .. 23 Virchow's (ed. by Chance) Cel- lular Pathology 9 PSYCHOLOGY. Arlidge on the State of Lunacy 4 Austin on Paralysis .. • ■ • • * Bucknill and Tuke's Psycholo- gical Medicine 8 Burgess on Madness ' Burnett on Insanity 9 ConoUy on Asylums Davey on Nature of Insanity .. Dunn's Physiological Psycho- logy Hood on Criminal Lunatics .. Millingen on Treatment of In- sane Monro on Private Asylums .. Noble on Mind WiUiams (J.) on Insanity WUUams (J. H.) Unsoundness of SCIENCE. Baxter on Organic Polarity .. Bentley's Manual of Botany .. Bird's Natural PhUosopliy Burnett's Philosoi)liy of Spirits Craig on Electric Tension Hardwicli's Photogi-aphy.. .. Hinds' Harmonies 15 Jones on Vision H Do. on Body, Sense, and Mind 17 Mayne's Lexicon 20 Pratt's Genealogy of Creation.. 22 Price's Pliotographic Manipula- tion 22 Rainey on Shells "3 Reymond'3 Animal Electricity 23 Taylor's Medical Jurisprudence 27 Vestiges of Creation 28 Sequel to ditto 28 Unger's Botanical Letters .. 29 Mind , SURGERY. Adams on Reparation of Tendons 3 Do. Subcutaneous Surgery 3 Ashton on Rectum 4 Barwell on Diseases of Joints .. 4 Bellingham on .Aneurism.. .. Bigg on Ai-tificial Limbs .. Bishop on Bones 6 Brodliurst on Anchylosis .. . Bryant on Diseases of Joints . Chapman on Ulcers Do. Varicose Veins .. . Cooper (Sir A.) on Testis .. . Do. (S.) Surg. Dictionary Curling on Rectum 10 Do. on Testis Druitt's Surgery J | Fergusson's Surgery • H Heath's Mmor Sui-gery and Bandaging .. .. •• ■• \\ Higginbottom on Niti-ateof Silver 15 Hodgson on Prostate '5 James on Hernia 1' Jordan's Clinical Surgery .. 1< Lawrence on Ruptm-es .. -.18 OBSTETRICS. Barnes on Placenta PriBvia Davis on Parturition.. .. .••4 Kiwisch (ed. by Clay1 on Ovaries Lee's Clinical Jlidwifeiy .. .. Pretty's Aids during Labour .. Priestley on Gravid Uterus . • Ramsbotham's Obstetrics.. .. Do. Midwifery.. .. Sinclair & Johnston's Midwifery 25 Smellie's Obstetric Plates.. .. 25 Smith's Manual of Obstetrics .. 25 Swuyne's Aphorisms 26 Waller's Midwifery 29 PULMONARY and CHEST DISEASES, &c. Addison on Healthy and Dis- eased StiTictm-e Alison on Pulmonary Consump- tion v;t 'Jt ■■ Billing on Lungs and Heart .. Blalciston on the Chest .. . • Bright on the Chest .. .. Cotton on Consumption .. Do. on Stethoscope Davies on Lungs and Heart DobeU on the Chest .. ■ • Fenwick on Consumption.. Laennec on Auscultation .. Marlcliam on Heart .. . • Richardson on Consumption Salter on Asthma f * Skoda on Auscultation .. Tliompson on Consumption Timms on Consumption .. Turnbull on Consumption Weber on Auscultation .. 10 10 11 1 1 18 20 23 20 .. 27 .. 28 .. 28 .. 29 f Liston's Surgery. 19 Macleod'sSurgerj'of the Crimea 19 Maclise on Fractures 19 Maujider's Operative Surgery.. 20 Nunneley on Erysipelas .. ..21 Pemberton on Melanosis Pirrie's Surgery 26 27 ,. 21 ^ ^ ,. 22 Price on Scrofula .. • • . • • Smith on Stricture 2.5 Do. on Htemorrhoids .. .. 25 Snow on Chloroform 26 Steggall's Surgical Manual Teale on Amputation Thompson on Stricture .. ■■ 'ii^ Do. on Prostate 2( Toynbee on Ear 28 Wade on Stricture Watson on the Larjmx •■ .■• ii Webb's Surgeon's Ready Rules i9 AVilliamson on Gunshot Injuries 30 WUson on the Skin .... . • 31 Do. Portraits of Skin Diseases 31 Yearsley on Deafness .. • ■ 3} Do. on Throat 31MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 3 m ' OC yo-^ > MR. F. A. ABEL, F.C.S., Se, MR. O. L. BLOXAM. HANDBOOK OF CHEMISTET: theoretical, practical, AND TECHNICAL. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, ISs. MR, ACTON, M.R.O.S. A PEACTICAL TEEATISE ON DISEASES OF TEE UEINAEY AND GENERATIVE ORGANS IN BOTH SEXES. Third Edition. 8to. cloth, £1. 1». With Plates, £1. lis. Stf. The Plates alone, limp cloth, 10«. 6(/. THE FUNCTIONS AND DISORDERS OF THE REPRODUC- TIVE ORGANS IN YOUTH, IN ADULT AGE, AND IN ADVANCED LIFE. Considered in their Physiological, Social, and Psychological Relations. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. PROSTITUTION: Considered in its Moral, Social, and Sanitary Bearings, with a View to its Amelioration and Regulation, 8vo. cloth, lOs. 6d. DR. ADAMS, A.M. A TREATISE ON RHEUMATIC GOUT; OR, CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 8vo. cloth, with a Quarto Atlas of Plates, 21s. MR. WILLIAM ADAMS, F.R.G.S. ON THE REPARATIVE PROCESS IN HUMAN TENDONS AFTER SUBCUTANEOUS DIVISION FOR THE CURE OF DEFORMITIES, 'With Plates, 8vo. cloth, 6s. SKETCH OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SUBCUTANEOUS SURGERY. 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. ON THE CONSTITUTIOML° AND*' LOCAL EFFECTS OF DISEASE OF THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 4to. cloth. Coloured Plates, 21s. DR. WILLIAM ADDISON, F. R.S. CELL THERAPEUTICS. Svo. doth, 4.. ON HEALTHY AND DISEASED STRUCTURE, and the True Principles op Treatment for the Cure of Disease, especially Consumption AND Scrofula, founded on Microscopical Analysis. 8vo. cloth, I2s. DR. SOMERVILLE SCOTT ALISON, M.D. EDIN., F.R.C.P. THE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF THE CHEST IN PUL- MONARY CONSUMPTION, AND ITS INTERCURRENT DISEASES. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 12s. THE ANATOMICAL REMEMBRANCER; OE, COMPLETE POCKET ANATOMIST. Fifth Edition, carefully Revised. 32mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. ANDREW ANDERSON, M.D TEN LECTURES INTRODUCTORY TO THE STUDY OF FEVER. Post 8vo. cloth, ,5s. —— _ ^MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. ON THE STATE OF LTIMCY AND^IHE LEGAL PJO^ISM FOR THE INSANE; with Observations on the Construction and Organisation ot Asylums. 8vo. cloth, 7s. DR. ALEXANDER ARMSTRONG, R.N. nnTrmrO" OBSERYATIONS ON NAYAL HYGIENE AND SCimYY. More particularly as the latter appeared durij^jJ^P°^'''' Voyage. »vo. ciotn, os. ON THE DISEASES, 7NJUKm''AND MALEORMATIONS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, «s. MR. ATKINSON. MEDICAL BIBLIOGEAPHY. Voi.i. Eoyai 8vo. I65. MR. THOS. J. AUSTIN, "^R-Cf. ENG A PRACTICAL ACCOUNT OE GENERAL PARALYSIS: ItsyeiUaVand Physical Symptoms, Statistics, Causes, Seat, and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 6. MR. THOMAS BALLARD, M.RXXS. A NEW AND RATIONAL EXPLANATION OF THE DIS- EASES PECULIAR TO INFANTS AND MOTHERS; with obvious Suggestions | for their Prevention and Cure. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. \ DR. BARCLAY. V A MANUAL OF MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS. Second Edition. I Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. DR T HERBERT BARKER. i ON THE HYGIENIC MANAGEMENT OF INFANTS AND J CHILDREN. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. W. G. BARKER. ON THE CLIMATE OF WORTHING: its Kemedial influence in Disease, especially of the Lungs. Crown 8vo. cloth, 3s. DR. BARLOW. A MANUAL OF THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. DR. BARNES. yrriATm i TTTE PHYSIOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF PUCENTA ^ pI^IiA; beingiieleL^^^ Lectures on Midwifery for 1857. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. BARWELL, F.R.O.S. A TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. With Engrav- ings. 8vo. cloth, 12s. A HISTORY OF EPIDEMIC^ "^PESTILENCES, FROM THE EARLIEST AGES. 8vo. cloth, 8s^^ DR. BASHAM. mTTT' i^-ROP^Y CONNECTED WITH DISEASE 01 IHL from the Microscope. 8vo. cloth, 9s. ■ ■—""^^W< o^ — ——" 30 * MR. Churchill's publications. i ■ — MR. BATEMAN. ra MAGNACOPIA : a Practical Library of Profitcablo Knowledge, comnui- nicnting the general Minutia; of Clicmical and Pharmaceutic Routine, together with the generality of Secret Forms of Preparations; including Concentrated Solutions of Camplior and Copaiba in Water, Mineral Succedancum, Marmoratum, Silicia, Terro-Metallicum, Pharmaceutic Condensions, Prismatic Crystallization, Crystallized Aromatic Salt of Vine- gar, Spa Waters; newly-invented Writing Fluids; Etching on Steel or Iron; with an extensive V.ariety of et ccetera. Third Edition. l!imo. 6's. MR. H. F. BAXTER, M.R.C.S.L. ON ORGANIC POLARITY; showing a Connexion to exist between Organic Forces and Ordinary Polar Forces. Crown 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. LIONEL J. BEALE, M.R.C.S. THE LAWS OF HEALTH IN THEIR RELATIONS TO MIND AND BODY. A Series of Letters from an Old Practitioner to a Patient. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6(/. jj HEALTH AND DISEASE, IN CONNECTION WITH THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF HYGIENE. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6(f. DR. BEALE, F.R.S. ON URINE, URINARY DEPOSITS, AND CALCULI: their Microscopical and Chemical Examination ; the Anatomy of the Kidney, and General ^ Remarks on the Treatment of certain Urinary Diseases. Numerous Engravings. Post ^ 8vo. cloth, 8s. Qd. u HOW TO WORK WITH THE MICROSCOPE, illustrated Edition, f Crown 8vo. cloth, Ss. ^d. m ^ THE MICROSCOPE, IN ITS APPLICATION TO PRACTICAL MEDICINE. With a Coloured Plate, and 270 Woodcuts. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 14s. jy ON THE ANATOMY OF THE LITER, illustrated with 66 Pho- tographs of the Author's Drawings. 8vo. cloth, 6s. Qd. ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE SALTS OF URINE, URINARY DEPOSITS, and CALCULI. 37 Plates, containing upwards of 170 Figures copied from Nature, with descriptive Letterpress. 8vo. cloth, 9s. Qd. MR. BEASLEY. THE BOOK OF PRESCRIPTIONS; containing 3000 Prescriptions. Collected from the Practice of the most eminent Physicians and Surgeons, English and Foreign. Second Edition. 18mo. cloth, 6s. THE DRUGGIST'S GENERAL RECEIPT-BOOK; comprising a copious Veterinary Formulary and Table of Veterinary Materia Medica ; Patent .and Proprietary Medicines, Druggists' Nostrums, &c. ; Perfumery, Skin Cosmetics, Hair Cosmetics, and Teeth Cosmetics; Beverages, Dietetic Articles, and Condiments; Trade Chemicals, Miscellaneous Preparations and Compounds used in the Arts, &c.; with useful Memoranda and Tables. Fifth Edition. 18mo. cloth, 6s. ^ THE POCKET FORMULARy"'AND SYNOPSIS OF THE ^, BRITISH AND FOREIGN PHARMACOPCEIAS; comprising standard and approved Formnlaj for the Preparations and Compounds employed in Medical Practice. Seventh Edition, corrected and enlarged. 18mo. cloth, 6s.MR. Churchill's publications. ^ ^ DR. HENRY BENNET. NUTRITION IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. Post 8vo. ciotb, 5s. A PEACTICAL TREATISE"oN INFLAMMATION AND OTHER DISEASES OF THE UTERUS. Fourth Edition, revised, with Additions. A'review OE THE PRESENT STATE OE UTERINE PATHOLOGY. 8vo. cloth, 4s. MENTONE AND THE RIVIERA AS A WINTER CLIMATE. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. O'B. BELLINGHAM. ON ANEURISM, AND ITS TREATMENT BY COMPRESSION. 12mo. cloth, 4s. PROFESS BENTLEY, F.L.S. A MANUAL OF BOTANY. With nearly 1,200 Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. ■ —~ MR. HENRY HEATHER BIGG. THE MECHANICAL APPLIANCES NECESSARY EOR THE <^ TREATMENT OF DEFORMITIES. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. v ARTIFICIAL LIMBS; THEIr"cONSTRUCTION AND APPLI- CATION. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 3s. DR. BILLING, F.R.S. l ON DISEASES OF THE LUNCS AND HEART. 8vo. doth, 6s. i DR. S. B. BIRCH, M.D. CONSTIPATED BOWELS : the Various Causes and the Eational Means of Cure. Post 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d. DR. GOLDING BIRD, F.R.S. TTRTNARY DEPOSITS; THEIR DIAGNOSIS. PATHOLOGY, AND TliERASuTIciL^ With Engravings on Wood. Fifth TJHitinn Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. n. . , ELEMENTS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY; being an Experimental Brooke, M.B. Cantab., F.R.S. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6^. MR. BISHOP, F.R.S. ON DEFORMITIES OF THE HUMAN BODY, their Pathology and Treatment. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 10s. ^ ON ARTICULATE SOUNDS, MD ON THE CAUSES AND f CURE OF IMPEDIMENTS OF SPEECH. 8vo. cloth, 4s. k LETTSOMIAN LECTURES ON THE PHYSICAL CONSTI- § TUTION^^^^^^^^"5^^ MR. CHURCHTLl/s PUBLICATIONS. 7 — JO- MR. P. HINCKES BIRD, F.R.C.S. PEACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHTLDEEN AND INFANTS AT THE BREAST. Translated from the French of M. Bouchut, with Notes and Additions. 8vo. cloth. 20s. MR. ROBERT HOWARTH BLAKE, M.R.C.S.L. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OE THE SKIN IN CHILDREN. From the French of Caillault. With Notes. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. Qd. DR. BLAKISTON, F.R.S. PRACTICAL OBSERYATIONS ON CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE CHEST; and on the Principles of Auscultation. 8vo. cloth, 12s. DR. JOHN W. F. BLUNDELL. MEDICINA MECHANICA ; or, the Theory and Practice of Active and Passive Exercises and Manipulations in the Cure of Chronic Disease. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. JOHN E, BOWMAN. I. I PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY, inchidiug Analysis. With numerous Illus- trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. II. MEDICAL CHEMISTRY; with Illustrations on Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. DR. JAMES BRIGHT. ON DISEASES OF THE HEART, LUNGS, & AIR PASSAGES; with a Review of the several Climates recommended in these Affections. Third Edi- tion. Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. DR. BRINTON. I. THE DISEASES OF THE STOMACH, with an Introduction on its Anatomy and Physiology; being Lectures delivered at St. Thomas's Hospital. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. THE SYMPTOMS, PATHOLOGY, AND TREATMENT OF ULCER OF THE STOMACH. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. BERNARD E. BRODHURST, F.R.C.S. ON LATERAL CHRYATHRE OF THE SPINE: its Pathology and Treatment. Post 8vo. cloth, with Plates, 3s. ON THE NATURE AND TREATMENT OF CLUBFOOT AND ANALOGOUS DISTORTIONS involving the TIBIO-TARSAL ARTICULATION. With Engi'avings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. III. PRACTICAL OBSERYATIONS ON THE DISEASES OF THE JOINTS INVOLVING ANCHYLOSIS, and on the TREATMENT for the RESTORATION of MOTION. Third Edition, much enlarged, 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6rf. MR. THOMAS BRYANT, F.R.C S 4 ON THE DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE JOINTS 0 CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. Post 8yo. clotl., 7s. 6</! ■ — ■ ^-m^lMR. Churchill's publications. -JO— i DR. BRYCE. i ENGLAND AND FRANCE BEFORE SEBASTOPOL, looked at f from a Medical Point of View. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. BUDD, F.R.S. ON DISEASES OF THE LIYEE. Illustrated with Coloiired Plates and Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, I6s. ON THE ORGANIC DISEASES AND FUNCTIONAL DIS- ORDERS OF THE STOMACH. 8vo. cloth, 9s. DR. JOHN CHARLES BUCKNILL, & DR. DANIEL H.TUKE. A MANUAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE: containing the History, Nosology, Description, Statistics, Diagnosis, Pathology, and Treatment of Insanity. 8vo. cloth, 15s. DR. BURGESS. THE MEDICAL AND LEGAL RELATIONS OF MADNESS; sLig a CelUit Theory of Mind, and of Nerve Force, and also of Vegetative Vital Force. 8vo. cloth, 7s. • DR. BURNETT. I THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO MATTER. | ^' 8vo. cloth, 9s. ^ INSANITY TESTED BY SCIENCE. 8vo. doth, 5s. % DR JOHN M. CAMPLIN, F.L.S. ^ ON DIABETES, AND ITS SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. ROBERT B. CARTER, M.R.C.S. m THE INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN PREVENTING dI^^EA^ES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Fcap. 8vo., 6s. THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF HYSTERIA. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. CARPENTER, F.R.S. PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY, with numerous nuis- ^ t!^lns on steel and Wood. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 26s. PRINCIPLES OF COMPARATIYE PHYSIOLOGY, niustratcd ^ wiih 30rE!S;igs on Wood. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth. 24. A MANUAL OF PHYSIOLOGY, with numerous Ilhistrations on Steel and Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6<i. THE MICROSCOPE AND ITS REYELATIONS. with nume- I rous Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. | \ DR. CHAMBERS. ^ I DIGESTION AND ITS DERANGEMENTS.. Post 8vo. doth, io«. 6rf. ^ ^^m^-^ ^l^m^*— — ■—■ MR. CHUECHILL's PUBLICATIONS. < ot — DR. CHANCE, M.B. YIECHOW'S CELLULAR PATHOLOGY, AS BASED UPON PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY. With 144 Engrav- ings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 16s. MR. H. T. CHAPMAN, F.R.C.S. THE TREATMENT OF OBSTINATE ULCERS AND CUTA- NEOUS ERUPTIONS OF THE LEG WITHOUT CONFINEMENT. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. II. YARICOSE YEINS : their Nature, Consequences, and Treatment, Pallia- tive and Curative. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. PYE HENRY CHAVASSE, F.R.C.S, ADYICE TO A MOTHER ON THE MANAGEMENT OP HER OFFSPRING. Sixth Edition. Foolscap 8vo., 2s. 6d. ADYICE TO A WIFE ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HER OWN HEALTH. ' With an Introductory Chapter, especially addressed to a Young Wife. Fourth Edition. Fcap. Bvo., 2s. 6d. DR. G. C. CHILD. ON INDIGESTION, AND CERTAIN BILIOUS DISORDERS OFTEN CONJOINED WITH IT. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. J. PATERSON CLARK, M.A. THE ODONTALGIST; OR, HOW TO PRESERYE THE TEETH, CURE TOOTHACHE, AND REGULATE DENTITION FROM INFANCY TO AGE. With plates. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. JOHN CLAY, M.R.C.S. KIWISCH ON DISEASES OF THE OYARIES: Translated, by permission, from the last German Edition of his Clinical Lectures on the Special Patho- logy and Treatment of the Diseases of Women. With Notes, and an Appendix on the Operation of Ovariotomy. Royal 12mo. cloth, 16s. DR. CONOLLY. THE CONSTRUCTION AND GOYERNMENT OF LUNATIC ASYLUMS AND HOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE. With Plans. PostSvo. cloth, 6s. MR. COOLEY. COMPREHENSIVE SUPPLEMENT TO THE PHARMACOPCEIAS THE CYCLOPiSDIA OF PRACTICAL RECEIPTS, AND COL LATERAL INFORMATION IN THE ARTS, PROFESSIONS MANU FACTURES, AND TRADES, INCLUDING MEDICINE, PHARMACY AND DOMESTIC ECONOMY; designed as a Compendious Book of Refertce fo7 U,^ Manufacturer, Tradesman, Amateur, and Heads of Families. Third and irrpntlv enlarged Edition, 8 vo. cloth, 26s. greatly SIR ASTLEY COCPER, BART., F.R S ON THE STRUCTURE AND DISEASES OF THE TESTIS With 24 Plates. Second Edition. Royal 4to., 20s. ■10 Mil. CnURClIILL's PUBLICATIONS. .ot — *® MR. W. WHITE COOPER. ON WOimDS MD INJURIES OE THE EYE. illustrated by 17 Coloured Figures and 41 Woodcuts. 8vo. cloth, 12s. ON NEAR SIGHT, AGED "siGHT, IMPAIRED YISION. AND THE MEANS OF ASSISTING SIGHT. With 31 Illustrations on Wood. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. MR. COOPER. IVI K. u i-i t- c r\. A DICTIONARY OE PRACTICAL SURGERY AND ENCYCLO- P^DIA OF SURGICAL SCIENCE. New Edition, brought down to the present time. By Samuel A. Lane, F.R.C.S., assisted by various eminent Surgeons. Vol. I., 8vo. cloth, £1. 5s. MR. HOLMES COOTE, F.R.C.S. A REPORT ON SOME IMPORTANT POINTS IN THE TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. COTTON. I. ! «' ON CONSUMPTION: its Nature, Symptoms, and Treatment. To t *' which Essay was awarded the Fothergillian Gold Medal of the Medical Society of I London. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 8s. Oi PHTHISIS AND THE STETHOSCOPE; OE. THE PHYSICAL SIGNS OF CONSUMPTION. Second Edition. Foolscap 8yo. cloth, 3s. MR. COULSON. ON DISEASES OE THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE GLAND. " The Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. II. ON LITHOTRITY AND LITHOTOMY; with Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 8s. — iviR WILLIAM CRAIG, L.F.P.S. GLASGOW. ON THE INFLUENCE OE VARIATIONS OE ELECTRIC TENSION is THE REMOTE CAUSE OF EPIDEMIC AND OTHER DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s MR. CURLING, F.R.S. I. OBSERYATIONS ON DISEASES OE THE RECTUM. Second A ptACTICAL TREATISE ON DISEASES OE THE TESTIS, ^ S??RMiT\c CORD^ Second Edition, with Additions. 8vo. cloth, 14s. -~- —-~~ DR DALRYMPLE M D. LOND., F.R.C.S. MT7TT70ROTOfiTCAL AND MEDICAL OBSERYATIONS ON THE MR. JOHN DALRYMPLE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. PATHOLOGY OF THE HUMAN EYE. Complete in Nine Fasciculi: imperial 4to., 20s. each; half-bomid morocco, gilt tops, 91.15s. -—— 3^ ^ --&t ~^<Sii«$.—&f >9-<"'5!0> e» MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 11 —&£ ■— J-e— DR. D A V E Y. THE GANGLIONIC NEEYOUS'SYSTEM: its structure, Functions, and Diseases. 8to. cloth, 9s. u ON THE NATUEE AND PROXIMATE CAUSE OE IN- SANITY. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. DR. HERBERT DAVIES. ON THE PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS OE DISEASES OE THE LUNGS AND HEART. Second Edition. Post 8to. cloth, 8s, DR HA L DAVIS. ILLUSTEATIONS OE DIEFICULT PAETUEITION. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. ™~ MR. DIXON. A GUIDE TO THE PEACTICAL STUDY OF DISEASES OE THE EYE. Second Edition, Post 8vo. cloth, 9s. DR, DOB ELL. DEMONSTEATIONS OF DISEASES IN THE CHEST, AND THEIR PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. With Coloured Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. LECTUEES ON THE GEEMS AND YESTIGES OE DISEASE, and on the Prevention of the Invasion and Fatality of Disease by Periodical Examinations. 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. DR. TOOGOOD DOWNING. J! NEURALGIA: its various Forms, Pathology, and Treatment. The Jaoksonian Prize Essay foe 1860. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6^, DR. DRUITT, F.R.O.S. THE SURGEON'S YADE-MECUM; with numerous Engravings on Wood. Eighth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6ci. MR. DUNN, F.R.O.S. AN ESSAY ON PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY. Svo. cloth, 4.. SIR JAMES EYRE, M. D. I. THE STOMACH AND ITS DIFFICULTIES. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2s. Gd. jj PEACTICAL EEMAEKS ON ' SOME EXHAUSTING DIS- EASES. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. FENWICK. ON SCEOFULA AND CONSUMPTION. Clergyman's Sore Throat, Catareh, Croup, Bronchitis, Asthma. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. MR. FERQUSSON, F.R.S. ( A SYSTEM OF PEACTICAL SUEGEEY; with numerous Illus- r trations on Wood. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. " —^ J Q ,MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 12 MR. FLOWER, F.R.C.S. A DIAGRAMS OF THE NERVES OF THE HUMAN EODT, exhibiting their Origin, Divisions, and Connexions, with their Distribution to the various Regions of the Cutaneous Surface, and to all the Muscles. Folio, containing Six Plates, lis. SIR JOHN FORBES, M.D., D.C.L. (OXON.), F.R.S. NATURE AND ART IN THE CURE OF DISEASE. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. FOWNES, PH.D., F.R.S. I. A MANUAL OF CHEMISTRY; with numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6rf. Edited by H. Benoe Jones, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. Hofmann, Ph.D., F.R.S. CHEMISTRY, AS EXEMPLIFYING THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OF GOD. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6(i. in. INTRODUCTION TO QUAIITATn^E ANALYSIS. Post 8yo. doth, 2s. DR. D. J. T. FRANCIS. CHANGE OF CLIMATE ; considered as a Remedy in Dyspeptic, Pul- monary, and other Chronic Affections; with an Account of the most Eligible Places of Residence for Invalids in Spain, Portugal, Algeria, &c., at different Seasons of the Year; and an Appendix on the Mineral Springs of the Pyrenees, Vichy, and An les Bains. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. C. REMIGIUS FRESENIUS. ELEMENTARY INSTRUCTION IN CHEMICAL ANALYSIS, AS PRACTISED IN THE LABORATORY OF GIESSEN. Edited by Llotd Bullock, F.C.S. „ i ti, q„ Qualitative. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, as. Quantitative. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. DR. FULLER. ON RHEUMATISM, RHEUMATIC GOUT, MD SCIATICA: their Pathology, Symptoms, and Treatme^^^^ Edition. Bvo. cloth, 12s. 6d. DR. GAIRDNER. ON GOUT ; its History, its Causes, and its Cure. Fourth Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 8s. 6d. MR. GALLOWAY. THE FIRST STEP IN CHEMISTRY. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. A MANUAL OF QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS. Third Edition. Post Bvo. cloth, 6s, MR. F. J. GANT. THE IRRITABLE BLADDER : its Causes and Curative Treatment. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s 6d. -—. -'^ijgt^ME. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 13 — J©— DR. QIBB. M.R.C.P. * ON DISEASES OF THE THROAT, EPIGLOTTIS, AND WINDPIPE. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MRS. GODFREY. ON THE NATURE, PRETENTION, TREATMENT, AND CURE OF SPINAL CURVATURES and DEFORMITIES of the CHEST and LIMBS, without ARTIFICIAL SUPPORTS or any MECHANICAL APPLIANCES. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. GRANVILLE, F.R.S. THE MINERAL SPRINGS OE YICHY : their Efficacy in the Treatment of Gout, Indigestion, Gravel, &c. 8vo. cloth, 5s, ON SUDDEN DEATH. Post Svo., 2*. 6d, MR. GRAY, M.R.C.S. PRESERYATION OE THE TEETH indispensable to Comfort and Appearance, Health, and Longevity. IBmo. cloth, 3s. MR. GRIFFITHS. CHEMISTRY OF THE FOUR SEASONS-Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter. Illustrated with EngTavings on Wood. Second Edition. Foolscap Bvo. cloth, 7s. 6d. THE SIMPLE TREATMENT °OF"mSEASE; deduced from the Methods of Expectancy and Revulsion. IBmo. cloth, 4s. HOOPER'S PHYSICIAN'S °YADE-MECUM; OR, MAl^UAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF PHYSIC. New Edition, considerably enlarged, and rewritten. Foolscap Bvo. cloth, 12s. 6d. GUY'S HOSPITAL REPORTS. Third Series. Vols. I. to VIL, 8vo., 7s. 6d. each. DR. HABERSHON, F.R.C.P. I. OBSERYATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL, OESOPHAGUS, STOMACH, C^CUM, and INTESTINES. Bvo. cloth 10s. 6d. ,j ' ON THE INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF MERCURY IN THE TREATMENT OF DISEASE. Post Bvo. cloth, 3s. 6(^. WW WVV VW*V%^V^IVW«* DR. MARSHALL HALL, F.R.S. PRONE AND POSTURAL RESPIRATION IN DROWNING AND OTHER FORMS OF APNOJA OR SUSPENDED RESPIRATION. Post Bvo. cloth. Ss. II. PRACTICAL OBSERYATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS IN MEDI- CINE. SetonD Sxxka. Post Bvo. cloth, Bs. 6d. ^ i^-m>\■&t . JO—-'StI^J MR. Churchill's publications. DR. C. RADCLYFFE HALL. TORQUAY IN ITS MEDICAL ASPECT AS A EESORT PGR pulmonary invalids. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. MR. HARDWICH. A MANUAL OP PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMISTRY, sixth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. MR. HARE, F.R.C.S. PRACTICAL OBSERYATIONS ON THE PREYENTION causes; AND TREATMENT OF CURVATURES OF THE SPINE; wUh Engravings. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. JAMES B. HARRISON. ON THE CONTAMINATION OE WATER BY THE POISON OF LEAD, and Its Effects on the Human Body. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6<Z. DR. HARTWIQ. ON SEA BATHING AND SEA AIR. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. II. ON THE PHYSICAL EDUCATION OP CHILDREN. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. DR. A. H. HASSALL, TTTP MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY OP THE HIBIAN BODY. IN jSIlTH AND mSEAS^^ with Several Hundred Drawings in Colour. Two vols. 8vo. cloth, £L 10s. THE URINE IN HEALTH AND DISEASE; or, a simple Ex- gravings. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. ^ MR. ALFRED HAVILAND, M.R.C.S. PTTMATE WEATHER, AND DISEASE; being a Slcetch of the LLiMAiii, W ^f l^f^^'j^^.^^^ Modern Writers with regard to the Influence o%irt:l?d^Se^Vn"^^^^^ With Four coloured Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 7s. iviR WILLIAM HAYCOCK, M.R.C.V.S. A TPT7ATTSE ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF ^ vSmNARY MEDICmt AND SURGERY. 8vo. boards, 6s. 6.. ON THE ACTION Op'''MEDICINES' IN THE SYSTEM. ^ Being the Pri^ Essiy to which the Medical Society of London awarded the Fother- ^lUan Gold Medal for 1852. Third Edition. Ovo. cloth. 12s. 6d.MR. CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 15 1©-, DR. HEALE. A TEEATISE ON VITAL CAUSES. 8vo. cloth, 9.. MR. CHRISTOPHER HEATH, F.R.C.S. A MANUAL OF MINOR SURGERY AND BANDAGING, FOR THE USE OF HOUSE-SURGEONS, DRESSERS, AND JUNIOR PRAC- TITIONERS. With Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. HIGGINBOTTOM, F.R.S., F.R.C.S.E. AN ESSAY ON THE USE OF THE NITRATE OF SILVER IN THE CURE OF INFLAMMATION, WOUNDS, AND ULCERS. Second Edition. Price 5s. ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE NITRATE OF SIL- VER; with full Directions for its Use as a Therapeutic Agent. 8vo., 2s. Qd. MR. JOHN HILTON, F.R.S. ON THE DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN OF CERTAIN FOR- TIONS OF THE CRANIUM. Illustrated with Plates in Lithogi'aphy. 8to. cloth, 6s. i THE HARMONIES OF PHYSICAL^SCIENCE IN RELATION I ^ TO THE HIGHER SENTIMENTS; with Observations on Medical Studies, and on \ ^ the Moral and Scientific Relations of Medical Life. Post 8vo., cloth, 4s. ^ DR. DECIMUS HODGSON. THE PROSTATE GLAND, AND ITS ENLARGEMENT IN % OLD AGE. With 12 Plates. Royal 8vo., cloth, 6s. MR. JABEZ HOGG. THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE : an Essay on its value in the Exploration of Internal Eye Diseases. Second Edition. Cloth, 3s. M. MR. LUTHER HOLDEN, F R.C.S. I. HUMAN OSTEOLOGY: with Plates, showing the Attachments of the Muscles. Third Edition. 8to. cloth, 16s. A MANUAL OF THE DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY W ith Engravings on Wood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. MR. C. HOLTHOUSE. ON SQUINTING, PARALYTIC AFFECTIONS OF THE EYE .| and CERTAIN FORMS OF IMPAIRED VISION. Fcap. 8vi clolh 4s. £ ' ^^Sl^^ STRABISMUSr-delivered at the Westminster Hospital. ^ ~ - ' 1^-$^^ i16 MR. Churchill's publications. — — DR. W. CHARLES HOOD. SUGGESTIONS FOE THE FUTURE PEOYISION OF CRIMI- NAL LUNATICS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. MR. P. HOOD. THE SUCCESSFUL TREATMENT OF SCARLET FEYER; also, OBSERVATIONS ON THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OF CROWING INSPIRATIONS OF INFANTS. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. HOOPER. THE MEDICAL DICTIONARY; containing an Explanation of the Terms used in Medicine and the Collateral Sciences. Eighth Edition. Edited by Klein Grant, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 30s. MR. JOHN HORSUEY. A CATECHISM OF CHEMICAL PHILOSOPHY; being a Familiar Exposition of the Principles of Chemistry and Physics. With Engravings on Wood. Designed for the Use of Schools and Private Teachers. Post Bvo. cloth, 6s. 6d. DR. HUFELAND. ? THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. Second Edition. Edited f ! by Erasmus Wilson, F.R.S. Foolscap Bvo., 2s. 6d. I DR. VAUGHAN HUGHES. BLOOD DISEASE. Crown 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. MR. W. CURTIS HUGMAN, F.R.C.S. ON HIP-JOINT DISEASE; with reference especiaUy to Treatment Ji by Mechanical Means for the Relief of Contraction and Deformity of the Affected Limb. [ 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. HENRY HUNT. ON HEARTBURN AND INDIGESTION. 8vo. cloth, 55. DR. INMAN, M.R.C.P. ON MYALGIA: ITS NATURe!" CAUSES, AND TREATMENT; being a Treatise on Painful and other Affections of the Muscular System. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 9s. FOUNDATION FOR A NEW THEORY AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10s. DR. ARTHUR JACOB, F.R.C.S. A TREATISE ON THE INFLAMMATIONS OF THE EYE-BALL. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. ^ DR. JAMES JAGO, A.B., CANTAB.; M.B., OXON. i OCULAR SPECTRES AND STRUCTURES AS MUTUAL EXPO- P NENTS. Illustrated with Engravings on Wood. Bvo. cloth, 5s,m MR. CnURCIlILL S PUBLICATIONS. 17 2 MR. J. H. JAMES, F.R.O.S. PEACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON THE OPERATIONS FOR STRANGULATED HERNIA. 8vo, cloth, 5s. DR. PROSSER JAMES, M.D. SORE-TEROAT: ITS NATURE, VARIETIES, AND TREAT- MENT ; including the Use of the LARYNGOSCOPE as an Aid to Diagnosis. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. BENCH JONES, F.R.S. I. MULDER ON WINE. Foolscap Svo. cloth, 6s. II. ON ANIMAL CHEMISTRY, iu its relation to STOMACPI aucl RENAL DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. HANDFIELD JONES, F.R.S., &. DR. EDWARD H. SIEVEKING A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY, illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, I2s. 6d. MR. WHARTON JONES, F.R.S. I I. I A MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF g OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY; illustrated with Engravings, plain ^ and coloui-ed. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. i THE WISDOM AND BENEFICENCE OF THE ALMIGHTY, AS DISPLAYED IN THE SENSE OF VISION; being the Actonian Prize Essay for 1851. With Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. III. DEFECTS OF SIGHT: their Nature, Causes, Prevention, and General Management. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. A CATECHISM OF THE MEDICINE AND SURGERY OF THE EYE AND EAR. For the Clinical Use of Hospital Students. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. 6d. A CATECHISM OF THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PHILOSOPHY JJgJODY, SENSE, AND MIND. For Use in Schools and Colleges. Fcap. 8vo., MR. FURNEAUX JORDAN, M.R.C.S. AN INTRODUCTION TO CLINICAL SURGERY; WITH A Method of Investigating and Reporting Surgical Cases. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, .'is. MR. JUDD. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON URETHRITIS AND SYPHI- LIS : .nclud.ng Observations on the Power of t!ie Mcnstnmua Fluid, and of the Dis- charge from LeucnrrhtEa and Sores to produce Uretluitis: with a variety of Exan.nles, E.\pcnments, Remedies, and Cures. 8vo. cloth, £1. 5s. —-—- KlJ2SK$^-©^ ^ 18 MR. Churchill's publications. ■ ^ ■—— 30 * DR. LAENNEC. A MANUAL OF AUSCULTATION AND PEECUSSION. Trans- lated and Edited by J. B. Sharpe, M.R.C.S. 3s. DR. LANE, M.A. HTDEOPATHY; OK, HYGIENIC MEDICINE. An Explanatory Essay. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. LAWRENCE, F.R.S. A TREATISE ON EUPTUEES. The Fifth Edition, considerably enlarged. 8vo. clotli, 16s. DR. LEARED, M.R.C.P. IMPEEEECT DIGESTION: ITS CAUSES AND TEEATME^T. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. EDWIN LEE. THE EEEECT OE CLIMATE ON TUBEECULOUS DISEASE ^ with N™ the cL Foreign Places of Winter Resort. Small 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. THE WATEEING PLACES OF ENGLAND. CONSIDEEED | ^ ^^i^th RetrLt to their Medical Topo^^^^^^^ Fourth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. THE BATHS OF EHENISH GEEMANT. Post Svo. doth, 3s. TTAMnrnPATTTY AND HTDEOPATHY IMPAETIALLY AP- ^^SatS wiI influence of the Mind over the Body. Fourth Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. ROBERT LEE, F.R.S. A TEEATISE ON THE SPECULmi; with Three Hnndred Cases. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. niNICAL EEPOETS OF OYAEIAN AND UTEEINE DIS- ^™ ES .vith aries. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6<f. HI. CLINICAL MID WERT; co^S:? S c—wSl Difficult, Preternatural, and Complicated Labour, witn ^^omm^u ^ Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 5s. | ■DT5\rTTrAT OBSEEYATIONS ON DISEASES OF THE i ^^uS Parts. Imperial 4to., 7s. 6.. each Part. |MR. Churchill's publications. 19 — ^ MR. LISTON, F.R.S. i, ^ PEACTICAL STJEGEEY. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 225. ^ MR. H. W. LOBB, L.S.A., M.R.C.S.E. ON SOME OF THE MORE OBSCURE FORMS OF NERYOUS AFFECTIONS, THEIR PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT. With an Introduction on the Physiology of Digestion and Assimilation, and the Generation and Distribution of Nerve Force. Based upon Original Microscopical Observations. With Engravings. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. LONDON MEDICAL SOCIETY OF OBSERVATION WHAT TO OBSERYE AT THE BED-SIDE, AND AFTER DEATH. Published by Authority. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. M. LUGOL. ON SCROFTJLOTJS DISEASES. Translated from the French with Additions by W. H. Ranking, M.D., Physician to the Suffolk General Hospital. 8vo. cloth, lOs. 6d. ^ MR. M'CLELLAND, F.L.8., F.G.S. 1 SKETCH OF THE MEDICAL TOPOGRAPHY, OR CLIMATE % ' "^^i^.^^P' BENGAL AND THE N. W. PROVINCES. Post 8vo ^ cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. GEORGE H. B. MACLEOD, F.R.C.S. (EDIN ) NOTES ON THE SURGERY OF THE CRIMEAN WAR; with REMARKS on GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Bvo. cloth, 10s. 6rf ' MR. JOSEPH MACLISE, F.R.C.S. SURGICAL ANATOMY, a Series of Dissections, illustrating the Prin- cipal Regions of the Human Body. & v. x xju ^''clotr5??2f°°' '"i^"^- fo^i"' 5s. each. Bound in ciotn, ±,6. i<is.; or in morocco, £4. 4s. ""unu iu ON DISLOCATIONS AND FRACTURES. This Work is Uniform DR. MCNICOLL, M.R.C.P A HAND-BOOK FOR SOUTHPORT. MEDICAL & GENERAL; :^l%Ted. " ^^'^'-^ ''^^ Second EdTtiW Posfsvo! DR. MARCET, F.R.S. I. ON THE COMPOSITION OF" FOOD. AND HOW tt tq ADULTERATED ;.ith Practical Directions Vor^s-AniSt^^^ cll, ON CHRONIC ALCOHOLIC "intoxication OR um HOLIC STIMULANTS IN CONNEXION vviVif -rnrT^. ALCO- SYSTEM. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 3s. W ^^'^^^ NERVOUS —^ }^_^ b 2MR. Churchill's publications. V —— 20 * — -- - —— " ———^———■ DR. MARKHAM. DISEASES OE THE HEAET: THEIR PATHOLOGY, DIAG- NOSIS, AND TREATMENT. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. SKODA ON auscultation""and PERCUSSION. Post 8vo. cloth, 6s. ^ SIR 0. RANALD MARTIN, K.C.B., F.R.S. THE INELHENCE OE TROPICAL CLIMATES ON EURO- PEAN CONSTITUTIONS. Originally by the late James Johnson, M.D., and now entirely rewritten; including Practical Observations on the Diseases o European Invalids on their Return from Tropical Climates. Seventh Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. DR. MASSY. ON THE EXAMINATION OE RECRUITS; intended for the Use of Young Medical Officers on Entering the Army. 8vo. cloth, 5s. MR. C. F. MAUNDER, F.RC.S. OPERATIYE SURGERY. With 158 Engravings. Post 8vo. Gs. DR. M A Y N E . AN EXPOSITORY LEXICON OE THE TERMS, ANCIENT AND MODERN, IN MEDICAL AND GENERAL SCIENCE, including a com- ^ 1 . MT7TUrAT AND MEDICO-LEGAL VOCABULARY, and presenting the S^ct pTnlni^'tiofD^rivS Definition, and Explanation of the Names Anab^es Syn nymes, and Phrases (in English, Latin, Greek, French ^-^.^^l^'^^'^^^^^^^ Science and connected with Medicine. Complete m 10 Parts, price 5s. each, ine -work, cloth, £2. 10s. DR. MILLINGEN. ON THE TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OE THE IN- SANEfwith Consiirations on Public and Private Lunatic Asylums. 18mo. cloth,- 4s. 6d. .^.^.^^ MR. JOHN L. MILTON, M.R.O.S. .„ ^„ 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. MONRO. REEORM IN PRIVATE LUNATIC ASYLUMS. 8vo. doth, 4.. »> THE HUMAN MIND Tn ITS ^RELATIONS WITH THE | i BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6<i. ^m MR, CHURCHILL S PUBLICATIONS. 21 S ^ _ MR. NUNNELEY, F.R.CS.E. I ON THE OilGANS OF YISION: their anatomy and phy- siology. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, ISs. A TEEATISE ON THE NATUEE, CAUSES. AND TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. 8vo. cloth, 10s. (id. A COTJESE OF PEACTICAL°CHEMISTEY, FOE THE USE OF MEDICAL STUDENTS. Arranged with express reference to the Three Months' Summer Course. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6rf. MR. PAGET. A DESCEIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE ANATOMICAL MUSEUM OF ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL. Vol. L Morbid Anatomv 8vo. cloth, 5s. •'' ^^"^JP: , -^^V. Natural and Congenitally Malformed Structures, and Lists of the Models, Casts, Drawmgs, and Diagrams. 5.9. i f MR. LANQSTON PARKER. J THE MODEEN TEEATMENT OF SYPHLLITIC DISEASES k hoth Pnmary and Secondary; comprising the Treatment of Constitutional and Confirmed B- Syphilis, by a safe and successful Method. Fourth Edition, 8vo. cloth, lOs. X DR. PARKES, F.R.C.P. ^ li THE UEINE: its composition in health and disease i AND UNDER THE ACTION OF REMEDIES. 8vo. cloth, I2s. THE CAUSATION AND PEEYENTION OF DISEASE. 8vo. cloth, 5s, MR. JAMES PART, F.R.C.S. THE MEDICAL AND SUEGICAL POCKET CASE BOOK, Hn,n;l^p'''!;^'"'" °J ™P°';^='"* Cases in Private Practice, and to assist the Student of Hospital Practice. Second Edition. 3s. 6d. rx-KT m^T^ TI-fOMAS B. PEACOCK, M.D. ^^OF^S 8^^FW?^' 0^ EPIDEMIC CATAEEHAL FEYEE ur 1»4/-U. mo. cloth, 6s. Gd. "^"^ °'-'VER PEMBERTON, M.R.C.S. OBSEEYATIONS ON THE HISTOEY PATHOIOCtY AND f TREATMENT OF CANCEROUS DISFASpV' p r ' ^^^^ > coloured Plates. Royal 8vo. cloth, 4s L-Melanosis. With A ^oi ■ . . .'yf©4 22 MR. Churchill's publications. . }«-<- DR. PEREIRA, F.R.S. SELECT! E PEiESCEIPTIS : with a Key, containing the Prescriptions in an Unabbreviated Form, and a Literal Translation. Thirteenth Edition. 24mo. cloth, 5s. MR. PETTIGREW, F.R.S. ON SUPEESTITIONS connected with the History and Practice of Medicine and Surgery. 8vo. cloth, 7s. DR. PICKFORD. HYGIENE; or, Health as Depending upon the Conditions of the Atmo- sphere, Food and Drinks, Motion and Rest, Sleep and Wakefulness Secretions, Excretions, and Retentions, Mental Emotions, Clothing, Bathing, &c. Vol. 1. ovo. cloth, 9s. MR. PIRRIE, F.R.S.E. THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY, with numerous Engravings on Wood, Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 24s. ^ PHARMACOPEIA COLLEGII REGALIS MEDICORHM LON- f \ DINENSIS. 8vo. cloth, 9s.; or 24mo. 5s. ^ lMPUrMATUE.^_^. ^.^^^^^^^^ p^,^^^,„p^,^ COLLEGII ReGALIS MeDIOOHUM LoNBIKENSIS. J ^ Datum ex TEdibus Collegii in comitiis censoriis, Novembris Mensis 14 iBiJU. ^ JoHANKEB Ayrton Pams. PrcBses. X PROFESSORS PLATTNER & MUSPRATT. THE USE OF THE BLOWPIPE IN THE EXAMINATION OF MINERALS, ORES, AND OTHER METALLIC COMBINATIONS. Illustrated by numerous Engravings on Wood. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10s. fad. DR. HENRY PRATT, M.D., M.R.O.P. THE GENEALOGY OF CREATION, newly Translated from the ^ Unpointfd Hebtw Text of the Book of Genesis, showing genera Scientific Accuracy of the Cosmogony of Moses and the Philosophy of Creation. 8vo. cloth, 14s. THE PRESCRIBER'S PHARMACOPEIA ; containing all the Medi- cines in the London PharmacopcEia, arranged in Classes according to^^^^^^^^ their Composition and Doses. By a Practising Physician. Fourth Edition. 6.mo. cloth, 2s. 6rf.; roan tuck (for the pocket), 3s. 6d. DR. JOHN ROWUSON PRETTY. AIDS DURING LABOUR, including the Administration of Chloroform, the Management of Placenta and Post-partum Haemorrhage. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. m. MR. LAKE PRICE. | PHOTOGRAPHIC MANIPULATION: Treating of the Piacti^^c of i the Art, and its various appliances to Nature. With Fifty Engravings on Wood. 1 osi 8vo. cloth, 6s. 6d. 3.0 »MR. Churchill's publications. 23 —— MR. p. O. PRICE, F.R.C.S.E. SCEOFULOUS DISEASES OF THE EXTERNAL LYMPHATIC GLANDS: tlieir Nature, Variety, and Treatment; with Remarks on the Management of Scrofulous Ulcerations, Scars, and Cicatrices. Post 8vo. clotb, 3s. 6d. DR. PRIESTLEY. LECTTJEES ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE GEAVID UTERUS. 8vo. cloth, 5s. 6d. SIR WM. PYM, K.C.H. OBSEEYATIONS UPON YELLOW FEYEE, with a Review of "A Report upon the Diseases of the Afi-ican Coast, by Sir Wm. Burnett and Dr. Bryson," proving its highly Contagious Powers. Post 8vo. 6s. DR. RADCLIFFE, F.R.C.P. LOND. ON EPILEPTIC AND OTHER CONVULSIVE AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. MR. R A I N E Y. ON THE MODE OF FOEMATION OF SHELLS OF ANIMALS, OF BONE, AND OF SEVERAL OTHER STRUCTURES, by a Process of Molecular Coalescence, Demonstrable in certain Artificially-formed Products. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 4s. 6d. DR. F. H. RAMSBOTHAM. THE PRINCIPLES AND PEACTICE OF OBSTETRIC MEDI- CINE AND SURGERY. Illustrated with One Hundred and Twenty Plates on Steel and "Wood; forming one thick handsome volume. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 22s. DR. RAMSBOTHAM. PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS ON MIDWIFERY, with a Selection of Cases. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12s. DR. DU BOIS REYMOND. ANIMAL ELECTRICITY; Edited by H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S. With Fifty Engravings on Wood. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. DR. REYNOLDS, M.D., LOND. EPILEPSY: ITS SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND RELATION TO OTHER CHRONIC CONVULSIVE DISEASES. 8vo. cloth, 10s. THE DIAGNOSIS OF DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, SPINAL CORD, AND THEIR APPENDAGES. i!vo. cloth, 8s, DR. B. W. RICHARDSON. I. ON THE CAUSE OF THE COAGULATION OF THE BLOOD. Being the Astlry Cooper Prize E.ssay for 1856. With a Practical Appendix. 8vo. cloth, 16s. THE HYGIENIC TREATMENT' OF PULMONARY CONSUMP- TION. 8vo. cloth, 5s. (}d. —— -i^-^^^^ 24 MR. Churchill's publications. ^ . — — — 30 • MR WILLIAM ROBERTS. AN ESSAY ON WASTING PALSY; being a Systematic Treatise on the Disease hitherto described as ATROPHIE MUSCULAIRE PROGRESSIVE. With Four Plates. Ovo. cloth, 7s. 6(/. DR. W. H. ROBERTSON. THE NATTJEE AND TREATMENT OF GOUT. 8vo. cloth, 10s. Gd, A TREATISE ON DIET AND REGIMEN. Fourth Edition. 2 vols, post 8vo. cloth, 12s. DR. ROUTH. INFANT FEEDING, AND ITS INFLUENCES ON LIFE; Or, the Causes and Prevention of Infant Mortality. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. ROWE. NERYOUS DISEASES, LIYER AND STOMACH COM- PLAINTS LOW SPIRITS, INDIGESTION, GOUT, ASTHMA, AND DIS- ORDERS 'produced by tropical CLIMATES. With Cases. Sixteenth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 2s. Gd. ^ DR. ROYLE, F.R.S. A MANUAL OF MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. With numerous Engriv:ngs on Wood. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. Gd. MR. RUMSEY, F.R.C.S. ESSAYS ON STATE MEDICINE. 8vo. cloth, lOs. 6cZ. DR. SALTER, F.R.S. ON ASTHMA: its Pathology, Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 10s. MR. SAVORY. A COMPENDIUM OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE, AND COMPA- NION TO THE MEDICINE CHEST; comprising Plain Directions for the Employ- Lnt of Medicines, with their Properties and Doses, and Bnef l^escnptwus of the Symptoms and Treatment of Diseases, and of the Disorders incident,-il to Infants and Children, with a Selection of the most efficacious Prescriptions. Intended as a Source of Easy Reference for Clergjnnen, and for Families residing at a Distance from Profes- sional Assistance. Fifth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 5s. DR. SCHACHT. THE MICROSCOPE, AND ITS APPLICATION TO ™E™LE ' ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. Edited by Fkkdeiuck Currey, M.A. fcap. ! 8vo. cloth, Gs. ■ ^ ^^ ^3*-$^: MR. Churchill's publications. 25 *^ —^ DR. SEMPLE. ON COUGH : its Causes, Varieties, and Treatment. With some practical Kemarks on the Use of the Stethoscope .as an aid to Diagnosis. Post 8vo. cloth, 4s. Gd. MR. SHAW, M.R.C.S. THE MEDICAL EEMEMBEANCER; OR, EOOK OE EMER- ,^^1?,^^^^ : in which are concisely pointed out the Immediate Remedies to be adopted m the First Moments of Danger from Poisoning, Apoplexy, Burns, and other Fomrldit7on SJ;^'%fA^'^v''™r''l -"othe^'useful 'l2L:S>n. cloth 2s S Additions, by Jonathan Hutchinson, M.R.C.S. 32mo. DR. SIBSON, F.R.S. MEDICAL ANATOMY. With coloured Plates. Imperial Mo. Fasci- cull I. to VI. 5s. each. ^^uPSh^F^^ .^^^ EPILEPTIFORM SEIZURES: their Causes, Pathology, and Treatment. Second Edition. Post 8ro. cloth, 1 Os. 6d. . ^ "^R- SINCLAIR AND DR. JOHNSTON T I PRACTICAL MIDWIFERY: Comprising an Account of 13,748 Deli- ^ I ro^Xh'ts!"""' " -^--^ ^ P--"! of Seven Years. I MR. ALFRED SMEE, F.R.S ^ ^™e? c^ DEBILITY AND DEFECTIYE NUTRITION; their- Causes, Consequences, and Treatment. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. 1 OBSTETRIC PLATES: being a^SeMonfrom the more Important and SSts^nrrtMr^^' ^"^^ ^^^^^ AnarmlSnTScS MR. HENRY SMITH, F.R.O.S. ON STEICTtJEE OF THE UEETHKA. 8™. clch, 7. 6rf. HiEMOEEHOIDS AND PEOLAP.Sns nv tttu nr^Tm, DR. W. TYLER SMITH. A MANUAL OE OBSTETRICS TFEOT?mrAT aatt^ T^i^in TICAL. Illustrated with laaEig^vrnS. ^^1^ sfcK6.^^^ THE PATHOLOGY AND TREATMENT OE iVJirnvvv^mx With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 77 ^ U CORRHCEA.II ,<S3^€—^ — ^ ^ ae MR. Churchill's publications. DR. SNOW. ON CHLOEOPOEM AND OTHEE ANiESTHETICS: their ACTION AND ADMINISTRATION. Edited, with a Memoir of the Author, by Benjamin W. Richardson, M.D. 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. STANHOPE TEMPLEMAN SPEER. PATHOLOGICAL CHEMISTEY, IN ITS APPLICATION TO THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Translated from the French of MM. Becquerel and RODIEE. 8vo. cloth, 12s. dr. steggall. students' books for examination. A MEDICAL MANUAL FUR APOTHECAEIES' HALL AID OTHEE MEDICAL BOARDS. T\Velfth Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. A MANUAL EOR THE COLLEGE OE SURGEONS; mtended for the Use ' i ^ ff cldTdates for Examination and Practitioners. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 10s. | III. \> n^T-am^Y'S CONSPECTUS MEDICM THEORETIC^;. The First Part, con- g the Tginal Text, with an Ordo Verhorum, and Literal Translation. 12mo. | cloth, 10s. ^ - THE EIRST EOUR BOOKS OE CELSUS; containing the Text, Ordo Verb- I orum, and Translation. Second Edition. 12mo. cloth, 8s. V. ETRST LINES EOR CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS PREPARING FOR EX- AMiStION AT THE PHARMACEUTICAL SOCIETY. Second Edition. 18mo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. STOWE, M.R.O.S. A TOXICOLOGICAL CHART, exhibiting at one view the Symptoms Treatment and Mode of Detecting the various Poisons, Mineral Vegetable and Animal. ?rwhfch are added, concise Directions for the Treatment of Suspended Animation. Eleventh Edition. On Sheet, 2s.; mounted on Roller, 5s. DR. SWAYNE. OBSTETEIC APHOEISMS FOE THE USE OE STUpENTS SdMmSJc^^^ With Engravings on ^Vood. becond Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. MR. TAMPLIN, F.R.CS.E. LATEEAL CHEYATHEE OE THE SPINE: its Causes, Nature, and Treatment. 8vo. cloth, 4s. ■ i^-^~>-&t — __ MR. Churchill's publications. 27 — ^e— DR. ALEXANDER TAYLOR, F.R.S.E. THE CLIMATE OF PAU: with a Description of the Watering Places of the Pyrenees, and of the Virtues of their respective Mineral Sources in Disease. Third Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 7s, DR. ALFRED S. TAYLOR, F.R.S. A MANUAL OF MEDICAL JUEISPKUDENCE. Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s, 6(1. II. ON POISONS, in relation to MEDICAL JUEISPRUDENCE AND MEDICINE, Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s, 6d. MR. TEALE. ON AMPUTATION BY A LONG AND A SHOET EECTAN- UULAR FLAP. With Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 5s. DR. THEOPHILUS THOMPSON, F.R.S. f ^^S^Fi^ LECTURES ON PULMONAET CONSUMPTION. 2: ♦ With Plates. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d LETTSOMIAN LECTUEES ON PULMONAET CONSUMPTION- with Remarks on Microscopical Indications, and on Cocoa-nut Oil. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. ' DR. THOMAS. I THE MODEEN PEACTICE OF PHYSIC; exhibiting the Sy.p. toms. Causes Morbid Appearances, and Treatment of the Diseases of all CHmTs Eleventh Edition. Revised by Aigeknon Frampton, M.D. 2 vols. 8vo. cloth, 28l MR. HENRY THOMPSON, F.R.O.S. SmOimE OF THE TJEETHEA; its Pathology .„<, T....o,e„. THE CHANGE OF LIFE In'hEATTH A¥b mQrACT7 f Practical Treatise on the Nervous i^dotWAff. -^^^ -^^^ DISEASE: a { of Life. Second EditionV 8vo dirt '° ^^""^•^^ ^'^<^""<= | r<S^^s< 3o . -^m^^ — — 28 MR. Churchill's publications. — ———— ■ DR. THUDICHUM. A TREATISE ON TEE PATHOLOGY OE THE URINE, Including a complete Guide to its Analysis. With Plates, 8vo. cloth, Us. DR. GODWIN TIMMS. CONSUMPTION: its True Nature and Successful Treatment. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10s. DR. ROBERT B. TODD, F.R.S. CLINICAL LECTURES ON THE PRACTICE OF MEDICINE :- Vol I—paralysis, DISEASES OF THE BRAIN, and other AFFEC- TIONS of the NERVOUS SYSTEM. Second Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. Vol. IL-CERTAIN DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS, AND ON DROPSIES. Fcap. Bvo. cloth, 6s. Vol. III.—on CERTAIN ACUTE DISEASES. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 6s. New Edition, in one Volume, Edited hy Da. Bbalb, Qvo. cloth, 18s. MR. TOMES, F.R.S. A MANUAL OE DENTAL SURGERY. With 208 Engi-avings on f Wood. Fcap. Svo. cloth, 12s. 6d. MR. JOSEPH TOYNBEE, F.R.S., F.R.C.S. THE DISEASES OF THE EAR: THEIR NATURE, DIAG- NOSIS AND TREATMENT. Illustrated with numerous Engravings on Wood. 8vo. cloth, 15s. DR. TURNBULL. AN INQUIRY INTO THE CURABILITY OF CONSUMPTION, ITS PREvSJtION, AND THE PROGRESS OF IMPROVEMENT IN THE TREATMENT. Third Edition. Svo. cloth, 6s. II. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON DISORDERS OF THE STOMACH wi^TfErXtATION ; and on the Causes and Treatment of Indigestion, &c. 8vo. cloth, 6s. YESTIGES OF THE NATURAL HISTORY OF CREATION. E^venth Edition. Illustrated with 106 Engravings on Wood. Bvo. cloth. 7s. U. BY THE SAME AUTHOR. EXPLANATIONS: A SEQUEL TO "YESTIGES." Second Edition. Post Bvo. cloth, 6s. DR. UNDERWOOD. TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Tenth Edition, with Additions and Corrections by Hknry Davies, M.D. Svo. cloth, 15s. . —3^-«#>MR, Churchill's publications. 29 « ' OC—— ]o » DR. UNGER. BOTMICAL LETTERS. Translated by Dr. B. Paul. Numerous Woodcuts. Post 8vo., 2s. 6d. MR. WADE, F.R.C.S. STEICTURE OF THE TJEETHRA, ITS COMPLICATIONS AND EFFECTS; a Practical Treatise on the Nature and Treatment of those Aifections. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. DR. WALLER. ELEMENTS OF PEACTICAL MIDWIFERY; or, Companion to the Lymg-m Room. Fourth Edition, with Plates. Fcap. cloth, 4s. 6d. MR. HAYNES WALTON, F.R.C.S. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE EYE. with Engravings on ■\V ood. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 14s. DR. WATERS, M.R.C.P. f THE ANATOMY OF THE HUMAN LUNG. The Prize Essay * to which the Fothergillian Gold Medal was awarded by the Medical Society of London. Jy Jrost ovo. cloth, OS. Oct, DR. EBEN. WATSON, A.M. ON THE TOPICAL MEDICATION OF THE LARYNX IN V^""'^' RESPIRATORY AND VOCAL ORGANS. DR. ALLAN WEBB, FRCSL ™suJe'1?*^F,'^ ^'?t^J ^''^ POE OPERATIONS IN fcUKGERY. Royal 8to. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. WEBER. A CLINICAL HAND-BOOK OF AUSCULTATION AND PER- CUSSION, Translated by John Cockle, M,D, 5s. ^ DR. WEGG. '^ofSr.Ser*' ™ ™ ^™CE AND AEI MR. T. SPENCER WELLS, F.R.C.S. PEACTICAL OBSEEVATIONS ON GOUT AND ITS rOMPr r ^•^i^a f . JVM WHICH MERCHANT VES- |--ot 30 MR. CHUKCHILL's PUBLICATIONS. DR. WEST. LECTTJEES ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. i MR. WHEELER. HAND-BOOK OF ANATOMY FOU STUDENTS OF THE FINE ARTS. With Engravings on Wood. Fcap. 8vo., 2s. 6d. DR. WHITEHEAD, F.R.O.S. ON THE TRANSMISSION FROM PARENT TO OFFSPRING OF SOME FORMS OF DISEASE, AND OF MORBID TAINTS AND TENDENCIES. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, ] Os. 6d. DR. WILLIAMS, F.R.S. 1 PRINCIPLES OF MEDICINE: An Elementary View of the Causes, m| Nature, Treatment, Diagnosis, and Prognosis, of Disease. With brief Remarks on Hygienics, or the Preservation of Health. The Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, 15s. THE WIFE'S DOMAIN : the Young Couple—the Mother—the Nurse —the Nursling. Post 8vo. cloth, 3s. 6d. DR. JOSEPH WILLIAMS. INSANITY: its Causes, Prevention, and Cure; including Apoplexy, Epilepsy, and Congestion of the Brain. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d. DR. d. HUME WILLIAMS. UNSOUNDNESS OF MIND, IN ITS MEDICAL AND LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS. 8vo. cloth, 7s. 6d. DR. WILLIAMSON, STAFF-SURGEON. NOTES ON THE WOUNDED FROM THE MUTINY IN INDIA: with a Description of the Preparations of Gunshot Injuries contained m the Museum at Fort Pitt. With Lithographic Plates. 8vo. cloth, 12s. M R. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. THE ANATOMIST'S YADE-MECUM: A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6d. '■^m^^ .^ i^^'^ MR. Churchill's publications. 31 ^ 3^ MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S. (continued). DISEASES OE THE SKIN: A'practical and Theoretical Treatise on PATHOLOGY, and TREATMENT OF CUTANEOUS DIS- EASES. Fourth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 16s. coWd ^vo doth ^ir'^^ '^''^ ^"'^'■^ executed Engravings on Steel, accurately III. HEALTHY SKIN ; a Treatise on the Management of the Skin and Hair in relation to Health. Sixth Edition. Foolscap 8vo. 2s. 6d. ^T^/'^f^^m or SKIK M„. Faadcum. to XII., completing the Work. 20s. each, ON,, SYPHILIS. CONSTITUTIONAL AND HEREDITARY- AND ON SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. With Fou^ Coloured ptat^.^^^^^^^^^ ^gISyTII^bIJS^™ the spas of Mineral Watert. Sost 8vo cVofh, ^'^'"'^^ '""^ ^^'"--^ ^'^^ °f VIT. THE EASTERN OR TURKISH BATH- tt-. • , • Britain, and Application to the Pi^osi of HeitFo;isca^ DR. Q. c. WITTSTEIN PRACTICAL PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY- a r i • of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Processed with th.M .J. . ^ ^^Pl^uation the Preparations, deduced from OriS ExnpL^. rp""^' ° ^-^^ti^g the Purity of German Edition, by Stephen VHT l8mo^. crthr6;. ^'"'^ ^''"''^ HEABACHES; ttoir Oau,e, ..d .heir Cure. ThW Edition. Foap. 8vo. MR. YEARSLEY. ':!^^.—■ CHURCHILL'S SERIES OF MANUALS. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 12s. 6c?. each. « We here give Mr. Churcliill public thanks for the positive benefit conferred on ^the Medical Profession, by the series of beautiful and cheap Manuals which bear his imprint."— British and Foreign Medical Review. AGGKEGATE SAI.E; 121,000 COFIES. The ANATOMIST'S VADE-MECUM. A System of Human Anatomy. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. By Erasmus Wilson, F.R.G.S., F.R.S. BOTANY. By Robert Bentley, F.L.S., Professor of Botany, King's College. CHEMISTRY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Eighth Edition. By George Fownes, F.R.S. Edited by H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.G.P., and A. W. Hofmann, F.R.S. DENTAL SURGERY. ■ With 208 Illustrations on Wood. By John Tomes, F.R.S. MATERIA MEDICA. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Thu-d Edition. By J. Forbes Royle, M.D., F.R.S., and Frederick W. Head- land, M.D., F.L.S. MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Seventh Edition. By Alfred Swaine Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Second Edition. By G. Hilaro Barlow, M.D., M.A. The MICROSCOPE and its REVELATIONS. With numerous Illus- trations on Wood. Second Edition. By W. B. Carpenter, M.D., F.R.S. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. With numerous Illustrations on AVood. Fifth Edition. By Golding Bird, M.D., M.A., F.R.S., and Charles . Brooke, M.B., M.A., F.R.S. OBSTETRICS. With 186 Engravings on Wood. By W. Tyler Smith, M.D., L.R.C.P. OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE ajid SURGERY. With coloured Engravings on Steel, and numerous Illustrations on Wood. Second Edition. By. T. Wharton Jones, F.R.G.S., F.R.S. PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. By C.HANDFIELD JoNES,M.B.,F.R.C.R.aud E.H. Sievek.ng, M.D.,F.R.C.P. PHYSIOLOGY. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood. Third Edition. By Willlvm B. Carpenter, M.D., F.R.S. ^; POISONS. Second Edition. By Alfred Swaine Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. PRACTICAL SURGERY. With numerous Illustrations on Wood. Fourth A Edition. By William Fergusson, F.R.C.S. 0 : l^^^ -^—prinlcd by W. Ulancuakd & Sons, 62, MUlbai.k Street, \Vc.tn.in»lcr. ^ VV>V*^ BOUND 3Y