SERIES III. PICKLES and PRESERVES. SECOND EDITION. LONDON t HORACE COX, “ QUEEN” OFKICE, BREAM'S BUILDINGS. E.C. Price One Shilling.22101424259Med K8579THE “ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKS.THE “QUEEN” DOOM BOOKS. No. 3. PICKLES AND PRESERVES. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY-POWN ALL, Departmental Editor “ Housewife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper, and Author of “A Book of Sauces.” SECOND EDITION. LONDON: HORACE COX, “QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. 1902.lOfzoGn'i LONDON : PRINTED BY HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS. E.C. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. <scr HISTORICAL medicalPREFACE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen diming the last eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and several other well-known chefs, whose kindness has so materially helped and rendered possible my work in these last years. S. Beaty-Pownall. * Jan., 1902.Advertisements. LINCOLNSHIRE FARM PRODUCE. WHITE CLOVER HONEY. Specially selected from the best Apiaries, and de- clared by connoisseurs to be the finest English Honey ever introduced to the public. Each jar bears over the cap a Red Guarantee Label with the wordB, “ Guaranteed Pure English Honey,” without which, and the registered picture label, none is genuine. Sold in lib. and 21b. Glass Jars at Is. or 2s. by the usual dealers, or a Is. Jar will be sent direct from the factory for stamps, Is. 3d. CHEESECAKE CURD in Jars, Is. and 2s. ORANGE BUTTER, in Jars, 6|d. and Is. Peek Samples of the Cheesecake Curd and Orange Butter sent on giving your own and Grocer’s name and address, or jar of each DELIGHT mailed free forP.O. 3s. 6d. Sole Makers and Proprietors : SPRING & CO., Ltd., Brigg, Lincolnshire.CONTENTS CHAPTER , I. The Still-room PAGE 1 CHAPTER H. Canning and Bottling ... ... ... 9 CHAPTER III. Canning and Bottling (Continued) ... ... ... 23 CHAPTER IV. Jams, Jellies, and Pastes ... ... ... 34 CHAPTER V. Liqueurs, Wines, ... ... ... 54 CHAPTER VI. Liqueurs, Wines, &c. (Continued) . .. ... ... 73 CHAPTER VII. Pickles and Preserves .. ... ... 90 CHAPTER VIII. Pickles (Continued) ... .. ... ... 109 CHAPTER IX. Flavoured Wines and Vinegars • •• ... 124 CHAPTER X. Meat, &c., to Cure .. ... ... 138 CHAPTER XI. Meat, <p-c., to Cure (Continued) ... ... 155 CHAPTER XII. Odds and Ends ... ... ... 169 Odds and EndsAdvertisements. Mustard Manufacturers by Special Warrant to H.M. the Queen. D. S. F. MUSTARD. See that Colman’s name is on the Tin. CORN FLOUR. For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. Self-Rising Flour. For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings, Scones, &c. 108, CANNON STREET, LONDON, and CARROW WORKS, NORWICH.B PICKLES AND PRESERVES. CHAPTER I. THE STILL-EOOM. In former days there were few houses of any pre- tension to gentility and housewifery (and in those times the two words were usually far more closely coupled than they are at present), that did not boast a still-room of some sort, in which the ladies of the household, matrons and maids, concocted the conserves, marchpanes, waters, essences, &c., which then had to be home-made if required at all. The room took its name from the still used in distilling the many odds and ends needed by the lady of the house, who not only provided the culinary wants of her household, but was also responsible for as many of the ailments of her tenants as did not actually in- volve the attendance of the surgeon; and, unless she is greatly belied, very weird and (to use her own word) somewhat “ ugsome ” were the drugs she compounded. Now-a-days the name still remains,PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 2 but tlie room is shorn of much of its previous im- portance, and is simply the scene of the still-room maid’s labours, in preparing the coffee, setting out the dessert, and, in short, is little more than an adjunct to the housekeeper’s room. But the old still-room was the scene in former years of the arduous work, engaged in by the mistress, or, in her default, by the housekeeper, in preparing the pickles, jams, compotes, sweets, biscuits, &c., re- quired for the family, and so it may well serve as the heading for this introductory chapter. It were well, in the country especially, if every lady could set aside a room which might be given up to this work, as then it could be carried on without dis- turbing the cook’s equanimity. That good lady, not unnaturally, rather discountenances the invasion of her premises by the ladies of the family, whose culinary views she knows from sad experience to be “ death on theory, but mighty little on practice,” as an injured cook was once heard to mutter, as she bowed out of her kitchen some young ladies who had kindly undertaken to show her the latest ideas on “ the theory of cooking.” The usual result of such visits only too generally is a fearful litter, and a • isplay of dirty pots and pans (very likely some burnt or other- wise irretrievably injured), which will ensure the kitchenmaid from the danger of idle hands for some hours to come. Incidentally it may be observed that the lady-cook would effect far more good would she remember the old kitchen rule and “ clear up as she goes.” The right way of cleaning pots involves so little time or labour, that even were her cookery3 THE STILL-ROOM. B unsuccessful, her cleanliness and dainty order would go far to reconcile even the most conservative cook to her “ new-fangled notions.” Whether, however, you set up a still-room, or elect to confide your preserves, &c., to “ cook,” one point must be carefully attended to, and that is the presence of the requisite utensils. These should be kept strictly for the one special purpose of preserve- making, and the small extra expense this will entail will be amply repaid by the pleasure derived from the home-made conserves. When the kitchen fire is not to be had, a gas ring, where obtainable, is certainly the nicest fire to use, allowing as it does of any degree of heat with the minimum of trouble, avoiding the heat and scorch of the range when used for this purpose, and finally giving the least trouble in the matter of cleaning up. Next to the gas ring comes the oil stove, and for this Messrs. Rippingille supply most fascinating little stoves, but personally Moller’s “ Primus ” stove (which consumes only the gas generated from the petroleum, and not the petroleum itself) appears to me the most satisfactory, as it produces a moderate heat, or a fierce blaze, just as easily as the gas ring; moreover, a very useful little hotplate to be used with it can be obtained from the Household Supply Stores, 119, New Bond Street, that will give all the advantage without any of the drawbacks of a kitchen range. Having obtained your stove, the next consideration is a pre- serving pan. The nicest and most durable (but also the most expensive) is made of bell metal; next4 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. to this is the enamel lined pan, which is also extremely useful in pickling, as acids do not affect it; and, lastly, there is the preserving pan of aluminium, of which, though I have heard much, I cannot speak from personal experience. But, whichever you elect, it must he kept immaculate, aud never on any consideration used for anything but still-room use. Have also a couple of good hair sieves, which must be carefully scalded and dried after use ; a jelly bag, or a thick piece of felt-flannel, such as jelly bags are made of, which can be tied to the four legs of a reversed chair, set on another chair or a table (as shown in Vol. I. for soup straining), and allowed to droop a little in the centre, a basin being placed on the reversed seat of the chair to receive the strained liquid ; two or three squares of coarse muslin ; four or six wooden spoons of varying size (the very long- handled ones being especially convenient), which must be kept in spotless condition, and thus kept, are preferable to anything but silver, which house- wives of old always used if obtainable (remember nothing made of tin, iron, or pewter, should touch jams or preserves, if their colour is a matter of importance.) A good long handled skimmer should also be at hand for sugar boiling. Besides these, be sure there is an ample supply of jam pots of varying sizes, with white paper and vegetable parchment, to cover them, or, far better still, have a good supply of Messrs. Daniel Rvlands’ (Barnsley) preserving bottles of varying sizes. These are of three kinds, the Climax, the Lightning, and the May Queen. All three are alike in the matter of the fruit, &c.,5 THE STILL-ROOM. touching nothing but glass anywhere, the only difference lying in the method of sealing, which is extremely simple in every case. In the Climax the wide mouth is fitted with an india-rubber band out- side it, on which a strong glass top fits, being made absolutely air tight at the last by a fire-gilt metal cap, which screws down over all, firmly pressing down the glass top into its place, over the elastic ring. These bottles can also be had with a small vent-hole in the glass top for use in pre- serving when the fruit has to be cooked after bottling; it can then be closed with a tiny bit of cork, and a drop of wax dropped over this before the outer cap is screwed on. The May Queen bottle differs from this by replacing the screw cap by a wire bail, the ends of which fit into sockets on the bottle neck, and are locked into place by means of a lever. The Lightning bottle cap varies a little from both of these. It has a wire bail and lever, but after the glass cap has been fixed in position over the rubber band, the end of the bail is passed over the top, fitted in between two glass studs on the cap, and the lever is pressed down till it locks the bail, and so keeps the lid in an air-tight condition. To open the jar, the lever must be raised, and the bail pulled towards the lever, off the cap. This last kind is, I believe, the most generally popular. The prices of all three are most moderate, and :f any difficulty is found in procuring these most excellent preserving bottles, a stamped envelope with the enquirer’s address will obtain from Messrs. Rylands’ the name of the nearest agent. These savePICKLES AND PRESERVES. 6 an immensity of trouble in the covering, and being glass afford every opportunity of observing the condition of the preserves. These jars are equally available for pickles, pre- served fruit or vegetables, jam, &c. For pickling have a good supply of stoneware jars (carefully avoid all glazed ones, which are affected by the vinegar used in pickling) ; also small kegs, for preserving French beans, &c., which must be scrupulously clean, and should be well scalded out, thoroughly rinsed, dried, and then aired for a day or two before use. If you go in for home-made wines you will need two or more tubs, one of which used for fermenting, should be finished with a tap at the bottom to let off the clear liquid, and a rim round the top, on the inside, to keep back the skins, stalks, &c. of the material used. Be especially careful of your sugar, which for preserving, must be pure cane, if decent results are to be obtained. Inferior sugar is no economy, for though the first cost be less, the frequent failure it causes, more than makes up for the trifling extra outlay involved by the purchase of the better class of sugar. As a matter of fact no better object lesson on the (de) merits of the craze for cheapness at all cost, can be found than the result of so-called economical (we beg pardon, cheap) preseiwe-making 1 If much preserving be done, it will be found most economical to buy the sugar in large quantities, as in this way naturally the prime cost is much reduced, the only question being its storage, and here comes in the difficulty of that “ cool, dry place ” always'7 THE STILL-ROOM. recommended for the storage of preserves of anv kind. This is by no means easy to obtain; the cellar being only suitable for such preserved vege- tables as are stored in kegs or tubs, whilst the fluctuations of the kitchen temperature render a kitchen cupboard, or the ordinary store cupboard, fixed in most cases as near the kitchen range as the builder can anyway contrive to get it, far from a wholesome abode for delicate jams, compotes, or, in- deed, stores of any kind. This is one thing that renders preserving of any sort somewhat of a trial to the town housewife; but in the country the expense of fitting up some small, unused, but dry room, in which a current of air is attainable, with shelves, &c,, will not be great, and will save its cost in a very short time. In this there should be a small cupboard in which the utensils used in pre- serving, &c., can be religiously kept apart. Again, for pickling the best vinegar should always be used. Of this there are two kinds, the best malt for ordinary pickles, piccallili, &c., and the best white wine vinegar for delicate preparations, such as fruits in vinegar, &c. There are several inexpensive little labour-savers that should find a place in the still-room, such as an apple corer, a fruit stoner and seeder, paring knives, for peeling fruit, &c. These cost but little, though they save a good deal of labour and time. A.1! spices, &c., likely to be required in pickling and preserving should be at hand in tins, neatly labelled, so that their contents can be identified with- out opening the tin, for the more air-tight suchPICKLES AND PRESERVES. S' things are kept the better do they preserve their flavour. As not every gum or glue will stick paper on to tin, the following formula, may be found useful: dissolve loz. of powdered alum in a pint of boiling water, then add to it 2oz. of gum shellac, and boil to- gether till this also is dissolved; bottle and keep tightly corked.. For liqueurs you will find it con- venient to have a jar (say a two-gallon one) full of stock syrup, which can be used plain or diluted as necessary, and so saves time when it may be of im- portance. For essences, and, indeed, many liqueurs, thoroughly good, over-proof, plain spirit may be ob- tained from the wine merchant, infinitely better than the ordinary so-called “kitchen” or “cooking” spirits, though, if anything, cheaper than these. The great advantage of this plain spirit is that it does not detract from the flavour of the material to be preserved, as would very likely be the case with the more or less doctored cheap spirit. Of course, where first-class liqueurs for table use are in question, real good brandy, gin, &c., should be employed as required, for, naturally, the better the quality of this foundation spirit, the more mellow and perfect will be the liqueur. This is a fact, by the way, only too often ignored by amateur liqueur makers, who consequently bring home-made liqueurs, &c., into contempt.CHAPTER II. CANNING- AND BOTTLING. The success of this process depends on heating the material to he canned till all germs are destroyed, then sealing it up till air-tight whilst it is boiling hot. You may can in two ways. 1. boil the fruit in the preserving pan either in syrup or water, till thoroughly cooked, then pour it scalding hot into the bottles, and pass the handle of a spoon down the sides of the bottle to set free any air-bubbles that may have been left in it; then wipe the neck of the bottle with a warm moist cloth, put the rubber ring on in its place, and fasten it down tightly according to the style of bottle you use, tightening it down again when cold. It should be held upside down after filling, to see if it is really air-tigbt (if it is not the syrup or liquid will exude), in which case it can be put away. If, however, any liquid escapes, you will have to remove the lid (if the preserve is still hot), add more hot syrup, and re-fit, the lid, after wiping it thoroughly. If, however, the bottle is cold before the leakage is discovered, you will have to turn out the contents of the bottle and re-boil them before returning them to the latter. But ifPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 10 you have been careful to fill up the bottles brimful, and use patent bottles in good condition, this trouble should not occur. When stored look at them fre- quently for a week or two, and if you find the liquid has settled, and that there are no air-bubbles, you may set your mind at ease; the canned fruits are going to keep. If, however, the opposite is the case, fermentation has set in, and unless released, the bottles will burst. In this case open the bottles, turn out the fruit, and boil it up again, using it as soon as possible, as stewed fruit, puree, &c., for it is not satisfactory to attempt to keep fruit that has once tried to ferment. N.B.—If you do not use patent bottles, but simply wide-mouthed bottles corked with bladder-lined corks, or covered with bladder, melt some paraffin wax (which any chemist will supply) in a small pan at the side of the stove (a very low degree of heat will do), and after filling the bottle, and well wiping the rim with a damp cloth, pour in about a tables poonful of the wax, being careful not to touch the bottle again till this has set, when it will adhere to the glass and form a perfectly air-tight cover. (This paraffin can be lifted out of the bottle, well washed, dried, and used acrain.) The bottle can then be covered down in the usual way. Only remember in canning, bottling, or otherwise preserving anything, the jar must be air- tight, if its contents are to keep ; so never use paper as a cover, whether brown or white, no matter how nianv folds you use, for paper is not of itself air- tight. Another point must be noticed about canning, and that is the preparation of theCANNING AND BOTTLING. II bottles. For tbis wrap them in hay or old cloths, set them in a pan full of cold water, and bring this slowly to the boil; when it has well boiled up, lift the pan from the fire, or turn off the gas, and leave the bottles untouched in the water till thoroughly cold, when they can be taken out, dried, and put aside till wanted, bearing in mind that they must be well scalded out before pouring in the boiling fruit (or they would burst) ; a knife with a metal handle, or a silver fork, should be placed in the jar whilst filling it, to carry off some of the heat. Whilst filling, the glass jar should always be set on a damp, warm cloth, care being taken to fill up the hollow at the bottom of the jar with a wet towel. When you have filled the jars, lift them away care- fully into a warm corner of the kitchen where they are safe from any draught or current of air, till the next day, when they will be cold, and you will find you can give an extra turn to the screw lid. The second method (and one much used in the large canning factories), is to pare, core, and if necessarv halve, the fruit, and then pack it as closely as possible into the glass jars, filling these up when so packed, with a syrup made by boiling half a pound of cane loaf sugar in a quart of water for fifteen minutes; now set these bottles covered with the patent tops, but without the rubber ring, in a kettle full of tepid water, separating the bottles with old cloths or hay, to prevent their knocking together when the water in the kettle boils, cover the pan closely, bring the water gently to the boil, and keep it boiling till the fruit is done; now lift out the12 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. bottles, standing them on a warm, wet towel, and after removing the lid of each singly, fill up directly with more boiling syrup, kept ready on the hob, and screw down tightly at once. Treat after this as in the previous recipe, being careful to test it to see if it is air-tight. Either fruit or vegetables can be done in this way, using boiled water instead of syrup, only of course it will take a considerably longer time. In syrup, berries and other small fruit will take ten to twelve minutes boiling to cook properly, whilst pears and such like will take two or three hours, according to their nature, and peaches or apricots will require from twenty to forty minutes; but if water only is used, a longer time (quite double, in fact) must be allowed. If properly cooked, fruit will keep quite as well without, as with sugar, and for many purposes it is more suitable unsweetened. Be careful to remember that for all kinds of pre- serves and pickles, the fruit or vegetables must be gathered on a dry day, after the dew is off ; they must be perfect in condition, rather under than over ripe, and as even in size and shape as may be had. The liquid, whether syrup or water, in which they are preserved, must cover them thoroughly when bottled, and the bottles must be brimful. Fruit inferior in size and shape (but not in quality) can be used up for jam. It is difficult to give exact times for canning either fruit or vegetables, as seasons vary so much in this country; either fruit or vegetables should, as a rule, be preserved when come to maturity, without being actually dead ripe; if at all over ripe,CANNING AND BOTTLING. 13 they mash, and are apt to mould exactly as if gathered in damp weather. Asparagus, to Bottle.—Scrape and cleanse the asparagus, cut the stalks into even lengths, and tie them up into bundles, one of which will fit one of Rylands’ bottles (previously mentioned), then put them on in salted, boiling water, and boil for five minutes, after which rinse them in cold water, and dry on a clean cloth; now place them into the bottles, allowing a bundle to each, and have ready boiling some water salted as for cooking the vege- table, and fill the jars right up to the top; fit on the glass top (use the Climax bottles with the vent-hole in the lid), stand the bottles so filled in a kettle of water, swathed in hay to prevent their cracking when the outer water boils, bring the water to a boil, and let them cook steadily for one and a half hours. Now cork and wax up the hole as described in Chapter I., and let the bottles get perfectly cold in the water they are cooked in without moving; then stand them on a moist cloth in a warm corner, fasten down hermeti- cally, wipe the bottles dry, and store, after labelling them with the date of the bottling. Articholce Bottoms, to Bottle.—Choose bottles just large enough to take the bottoms easily. Trim the artichokes in the usual way, and boil them sharply till the leaves can be lifted out with ease (this will take only a few minutes), then scoop out the choke, rinse the bottoms for a minute in cold water, and drain on a clean cloth. Have ready boiling salted water, scald out the bottles to prevent their bursting, pack in the bottoms one on the other, and fill upPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 14 with the boiling salted water, which should cover them completely; fasten on the lids, and boil as in the recipe for aspai’agus. Broad and French beans can be bottled in precisely the same way, only remember that the broad beans must be young, and that the French ones should be “strung” as for ordinary boiling. Both should be parboiled, rinsed, and drained, and then finished off in the bottles with boiling salted water. Cardoons, to Bottle.—Choose white, and very sound cardoons, cut the inner leaves into three inch lengths, removing all the prickly parts at the sides, blanch them for twenty minutes in salted water, then i*inse, drain, and finish off as before. When wanted for use, they must be drained, and cooked in sauce, milk, &c., till tender, being careful only to simmer them. Cauliflowers can, if liked, be preserved in the same way, after well soaking and cleansing them, trimming them so that they stand upright in the bottle or jar. They also are finished off, when taken out, in sauce, &c. Celery and celeriac, trimmed as for cooking, and pai’boiled, can be preserved in the same way. Celeiy is so useful in rheumatic cases that it is well worth bottling. Carrots, young turnips, &c., can all be bottled by these rules. Green Peas, to Bottle.—There ai’e several ways of doing this. The regular way, as done by profes- sional canners, is I believe tipis : Gather the peas on a dry day (as you must every other fruit or vegetable to preserve), shell them carefully, and pick them over to ensure their all being sound and perfect, and as even in size as possible; blanch them with aCANNING AND BOTTLING. 15 spray of mint, rinse, and dry well. Then put them into the bottles with the mint, shaking them to make them settle in nicely, pour salted boiling water over them, and after covering down, let them cook as before in a large kettle of water (remember that in every case the outside water should not reach above an inch from the rim of the bottle mouth) for one and a-half hours, and finish off as before. II. Shell, parboil, and drain the peas as before; pound the pods (they should be young, though full formed) in some of the water in which the peas were boiled, and strain off the coloured liquid thus produced. Season to taste with salt, adding as much more water as will suffice to cover the peas, and boil it all together for ten or twelve minutes. Now put the peas into the bottles, cover them with the green water, and cook as before; then fasten the tops down to make it all air-tight, and when cold store in a dry place. III. Gather and pick over the peas as before, and drop them carefully into the wide-mouthed preserving bottles so as to bruise them as little as possible, shake them gently to pack them close, and put on the cap of the bottle without the rubber ring ; put the bottles swathed in hay into a kettle full of boiling water, again bring it gently to the boil, and keep this outer water simmer- ing, quietly but steadily, till the peas look tender; then at once pour into the bottles boiling salted water (allow a teaspoonful of salt to each half gallon of wa'-er), and fasten down securely. Be careful to stand these bottles, when you take them out of the water, on a cloth wrung out of hot water, and beep16 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. them in a place where no current of air can touch them, or they may burst. Myself, I prefer pouring a spoonful of oil in after the boiling water, to keep them air-tight, and leave them in the hot water till it has become stone cold (as this greatly diminishes the risk), and then make them air-tight. IV. An old-fashioned way, still trusted to in the countiy, is to gather and shell the peas as before, wipe them very gently on a clean soft cloth till dry, then pack them as closely as possible in dry bottles, close them down securely either with Rylands’ air-tight tops, or with bladder, and then dip them in bottling wax; after which they are buried in a cool dry corner of the garden. I have never tried this method myself, but as a child have often eaten peas preserved in this way. These peas require a little longer boiling than usual when to be served, and should have a small piece of butter put with them. Tomatoes, to Bottle.—Choose ripe, richly-coloured tomatoes, as much of a size as possible (do not choose abnormally large ones), and dip each for a minute in boiling water to allow of peeling off the skin easily ; then drain them well, allowing as much as possible of their own water to escape with the scalding water, but do not press them at all. Now put them in an enamel pan, bring them steadily to the boil, stirring them gently with a wooden spoon (be careful not to break or mash them), and allow them to boil steadily and untouched for about twelve minutes ; then pour them boiling into the wide- mouthed patent bottles (which should have been oreviously scalded in boiling water and then17 CANNING AND BOTTLING. drained), being careful to fill them until the juice runs right over ; then wipe the necks of the bottles very quickly and screw on the tops, screwing these down tighter as the contents cool; when cold wipe the bottles well, test them to see that they are air-tight, and store in the coolest, driest, dark place available. Tomatoes can be bottled by any recipe given, and, indeed, can be preserved in a variety of ways. For instance, as conserve: Cut up 41b. or 51b. good, sound tomatoes into small pieces, removing the stalks and any green parts, and cook them till perfectly tender with two onions (one stuck with three or four cloves and two bay leaves, salt and pepper to taste) ; then turn all the pulp on to a fine hair sieve, and when all the juice has flowed from them, put this into a pan and boil till reduced to half ; now pulp the rest of the tomatoes through the sieve (after removing the bay leaves and the onions), and mix the puree thus obtained with the re- duced juice, and put it all into wide-mouthed bottles, cover these down and stand them as before in a kettle of water, bring this to the boil, and keep it boiling for half an hour ; then either lift the pan off the fire (or, if on a ring, turn out the gas), and let the bottles stand in the water till the latter is stone cold; then tighten up the cover, or cover the cork with bladder and bottle wax, and store as usual. Or it may be preserved as a puree : Take just ripe and richly-coloured tomatoes, and break (do not cut them) in two, place them in a pan on a slack fire, and crush the fruit well to get out all the juice, and to prevent their burning. When sufficiently c18 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. tender crush it all through a tine sieve (be sure and keep back all the skin and pips), and then after seasoning this pulp with a little salt aud pepper either pour it at once into hot, wide-mourhed bottles, cork, and cook in the bain marie for half an hour, and cork and store in the usual way ; or, return the pulp (after tammying) to the pan, and let it cook for half an hour, till it thickens to the consistency of peasoup or thick cream, and when cool put it in wide-mouthed, unglazed jars, and cover with oil, butter, or melted beef-suet; tie down and store in a dry place. This will keep for years if properly made. Almost all vegetables can be bottled by the above directions, and keep admirably if care has been taken to see that the covers are air-tight, so that full advantage may be taken of a year of extra plenty. Vegetables also, if reduced to a puree and stored in unglazed jars, with a covering of melted beef suet, &c., keep capitally. For instance, sorrel or spinach may either of them be preserved in this way: Remove the stalk and the spine or thread from the leaves, and boil up in a copper pan, till it has rendered all its liquid, then strain this off and return the puree of vegetable to the fire, and let it cook to a smooth puree; now turn it into wide- mouthed unglazed jars, smooth over the top, cover with paraffin wax, and cover down and store as usual. Endive, lettuce, &c., can be done in this way, but must first be broken up. The sorrel or spinach for this can be obtained by letting the bed grow after the first spring crop has been cleared off in the spring and then utilising the later crop.19 CANNING AND BOTTLING. Though French beaus (like broad, or Windsor beans) can be perfectly bottled by the previous directions, the commonest method of preserving these most useful vegetables is this: Gather the French beans whilst young, and on a line day; put a fairly thick layer of salt at the bottom of a large, unglazed earthenware jar, and cover with a layer of beans, then more salt, and repeat these two layers till the jar is full, finishing with the salt. Cover with a clean cloth, lay a board on that, and lastly, a pretty heavy weight on that, to ensure its being air- tight. Be careful when taking out beans that the jar is carefully recovered, or they will not keep. To use them, wash them well when taken out, and then let them steep in soft water from twelve to twenty-four hours, changing the water pretty constantly. When boiled, do not salt them, but put a piece of butter with them, and season with lemon juice and white pepper. Again, it is not at all difficult to dry vegetables, and desiccated vegetables always form part of the winter stores abroad. For these, peel and shred fairly fine, potatoes, carrots, turnips, and such like, and boil them for five minutes in a wicker basket; (if you are drying cauliflowers, endive, parsley, spinach, &c., pick them over, and wash them well, then boil for five minutes) ; then rinse them all in cold water (iced if possible), drain them well and dry carefully on a clean cloth. When dry, spread the vegetables in thin layers on canvas frames, so that they do not stick together in lumps, and leave these frames in the oven for the night, in an even, c 220 PICKLES AKD PRESERVES. moderate heat, repeating this process till the vege- tables are quite dry and crisp. Then store them in glass bottles covered down till air-tight. Cabbages can also be kept in this way, but must be very care- fully cleansed and steeped, and then parboiled in fresh water. All bottled vegetables should be carefully strained from the water in which they were preserved, and then thoroughly rinsed in fresh boiling water, and again well drained; this helps to soften them before cooking, and entirely prevents any chance of a bitter taste sometimes given by the preserving water; a taste frequently noticeable in carelessly cooked preserved vegetables. The drying frames can easily be made at home, as they only consist of four thin laths nailed together to fit the oven, and then covered with coarse canvas or sacking strained over them. Mushrooms, though susceptible of exactly the same treatment as other vegetables, are preserved generally somewhat differently from other vegetables, there- fore, various methods are here given. Old-fashioned country housewives preserve them thus : Choose large though still button mushrooms, and lay them on a sieve stalks uppermost, and sprinkle well with fine salt to get out the water. When well drained, put them in a deep jar, and set them for an hour in a cool oven, after which, take them up lightly, and lav them upon a dish to cool. Meantime, boil the liquor which will have receded from them, with a blade of mace, until reduced to half ; now put the mushrooms in a clean jar, and pour this reduced liquor (when cold) overCANNING AND BOTTLING. 21 them, cover with melted suet, and cover down very carefully. Or: Wash and peel the mushrooms (cutting them in pieces if very large, removing the stalks), and blanch them in boiling water for two or three minutes (not longer) then strain well, and thread on a long, strong- thread, keeping each separate, and then dry in the shade or a very moderate oven, and when perfectly dry store in air-tight tins tree from dust and damp. (Be sure the oven is not too hot, or the heat will utterly destroy the flavour of the mushrooms). To cook mushrooms preserved thus, soak them for lialf- an-hour in vinegar and water, and then finish off in any way you choose. Or, put a thin layer of salt at the bottom of an unglazed jar, and lay in the mush- rooms, then more salt, and finish off as for the French beans in salt. Or: Pack well wiped, perfect, even-sized and shaped mushrooms, in wide-mouthed glass bottles, not too tightly, sprinkling them with a little finely minced shallot; then cover them completely with light- white (French or German) wine, cook and boil for half an hour in the bain-marie. Let them stand till perfectly cold in the water they are cooked in, then wipe, screw down tightly, and store. Or: wipe the mushrooms very clean, taking out the brown, and paring off the skin of the large ones ; lay them on paper, and set them in a cool oven to dry, then store in paper bags. When wanted for use, simmer them very slowly in good gravy, and they will swell out to very nearly their original size. If after drying in this way the mushrooms are crushed to a fine powder22 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. in a mortar, and kept in tightly corked and sealed (small) bottles, this powder will be a great addition to sauces, &c. Or lastly, a very satisfactory essence of mushrooms can be made thus : Wash and peel the mushrooms and cut them up small; place a layer a quarter of an inch thick of this mince in a new earthenware jar, sprinkling it with fine salt, and fill up the jar in this way ; now press it down with a light weight (the best way is to slip a reversed saucer into the jar, and stand the weight on that), and next day pound it all together, and let it stand for forty-eight hours (stirring it well up every six hours) till it becomes a puree ; add to this black pepper and a little mustard seed, and boil for three hours in the bain-marie. Now run it through a fine wire sieve, let it stand for a little, then decant the clear part off very carefully. Be careful not to shake the bottle, and add a spoon- ful of spirit of some kind at the last, before corking and sealing down tightly. I may add here the recipe for a mustard-like paste, which is, abroad, considered an immense addition to mushrooms in any shape: Blanch and pound almonds in a mortar with a little water, olive oil, lemon-juice, a suspicion of garlic, and a few black peppercorns till of the consistency of thick mustard.CHAPTER IH. CANNING AND BOTTLING (Continued). Needless almost to say that the rules given for canning vegetables apply equally to fruit, which can be bottled either with sugar syrup or plain water, as the operator chooses, only bearing in mind that in the latter case they require far more boiling than in the former, or rather it should be said cooking, for as they must always be treated on the bain-marie plan, the contents of the bottles themselves never actually get beyond simmering point. We may briefly recapitulate the two methods of bottling, then proceed to individual recipes. The fruit must be in perfect condition, gathered on a warm, dry day, haived, stoned, and peeled, as may be required (this is for such fruit as pears, apricots, &c.), and then are either cooked in syrup and poured, as explained before, boiling hot into the bottles, and at once securely fastened up by screwing on the cap to its uttermost, if the patent bottles are used; or by stretching a bladder damped in a little spirit over the mouth of the bottle, then forcing in the cork as tightly as possible, and lastly covering it all over closely with more damp bladder, or by dipping the top or neck of the bottle into bottling wax. (This24 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. wax can be bought all ready, if necessary, but if it must be home made, mix together one pound each of beeswax and resin with half a pound of tallow, melting it all together, colouring it with either red or yellow ochre, as you please, and stirring it till thoroughly amalgamated). The other method con- sists in laying the fruit raw, but prepared by peeling, coring, &c., as above, mto the bottles, filling these up with either syrup or water, and finishing, as described above, in the bain-marie. The first method is recom- mended, especially if plain water is used,as preserving the taste of the fruit more perfectly. The fruit pre- served in syrup make delicious dessert dishes, for winter use, but for this purpose they require some- what different treatment. Select rich, ripe, stone fruit of any kind ; if large they must be carefully stoned by slipping the stone out with a corer or a small knife, preserving the shape as much as possible; if small the stones can be left in, but then the fruit must be pricked through and through with a darning needle. As you stone or prick them, drop them into a pan of cold water, and when all are done set this pan on the fire and bring the water just to the boil, lifting it off the fire at once just as it is on boiling point; lift out the fruit with a skimmer as they rise to the surface of the water, and again drop them into cold water, rinse, and drain on a sieve. Have ready a plain syrup made with two parts of sugar to one of water, brought to the boil, allowed to boil for a minute, then well skimmed, returned to the fire and gently boiled until on dipping the finger and thumb into cold water and then into the syrup, a25 CANNING AND BOTTLING. thread forms, which can he stretched some way before snapping ; lay the fruit into the syrup at this point, and boil up once geutly, then lift the pan from the fire, skim carefully, and pour syrup and fruit into an earthenware basin, and leave it till next day; then drain off the syrup, add a little more sugar, and again boil to the“ pearl ” till the thread will stretch a little further before snapping, and again boil up the fruit as before. Repeat this exactly for five days more, then on the sixth day boil the sugar till you can stretch your finger and thumb to the uttermost without breaking the thread, boil the fruit up again and bottle and cork down at once. They will keep in this svrup for a long time ; when wanted for dessert purposes lift them from the bottles, drain for a little on a sieve, then place them on pastry racks, or trays, in the oven, till dry or glaces. Or they may be drained in this way, and then dipped in sugar boiled to the crack (i.e., till on dropping a little into cold water it will harden at once and fall with a little tinkle like glass, or if bitten will break crisp and hard), and then left to dry on oiled slabs. Preserved in this way they are extremely nice, but do not keep good for more than a few days at the outside. Soft fruit, such as strawberries, &c., must not be boiled in the syrup, but only need the boiling syrup (brought to the proper degree) poured over them. Of course as strict attention must be paid to the tight closing of the bottles containing these fi’uits as foi any other bottled fruit. Again fruit is often preserved in brandy, with excellent effect. This may be done in two waysPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 26 either the fruit is bottled in syrup as before, to which brandy or spirit to taste is added, or else the fruit after preparation, is laid in the bottles, with brandy enough to cover them, corked down tightly and left for a month, after which the brandy is strained off and mixed with sugar candy in the proportion of 4oz. of the crushed candy to each pint of the brandy when this is thoroughly melted, it is all strained through flannel till bright and clear, and then returned to the fruit (being careful there is enough to cover them well), and they are then ready for use, but will keep for a long time. Another form of bottled dried fruit is one seen abroad, in which the fruit is reduced, to powder. It is prepared thus: stalk any fruit, such as currants, cherries, &c., and remove the stones, then crush them till every drop of juice is extracted ; tammy this, and for each part of juice allow from four to six parts of very white (cane) loaf sugar, crushed and sifted. Stir the juice and sugar together till you obtain a granular kind of paste; dry this slowly but thoroughly in the stove, then crush to powder and store in very clean, dry and tightly corked bottles. A spoonful of this fruit sugar dissolved in a glass of iced or aerated water makes a most refreshing drink in hot weather. Lastly, there is bottled fruit pulp, which is very easily prepared, and will enable one to have apparently fresh fruit puree all the year round. For this choose perfectly ripe (but not the least over ripe) fruit, freshly gathered on a dry, hot day, and pulp this fruit, raw, through a delicately clean27 CANNING AND BOTTLING. and freshly scalded, but quite dry, tammy or fine sieve, and pack this pulp into clean, dry, wide- mouthed bottles (but without any sugar), cork these down tightly, covering the bottles with moistened bladder; set these bottles in a kettleful of cold water, well up to the shoulders of the bottles, bring this water very gently to the boil, and keep it boiling steadily for twenty-minutes ; then lift the kettle off the fire or turn off the gas, and let it all stand till the next day, when the bottles may be lifted out, well wiped, and stored in a dry place. Any fruit pulp can be preserved in this way, and is deliciously fresh to taste. The above directions, if carefully carried out, will answer for almost all fruit, so that many individual directions are needless; still a few may be given as typical of the various kind of preserving. Apricots, &c., to bottle.—The following is a French recipe, and if followed exactly, answers admirably for apricots, peaches, greengages, &c., and even cherries. Have ready good, wicle-mouthed, very clean and dry bottles ; fill these with fruit, then into each bottle shake lightly about ^lb. of caster sugar, cork the bottles down tightly, and place them in a large kettle or pan, separated by havbands or old cloths, and packed as closely as may be. Fill the kettle with cold water, set it on the fire, and bring it gently to the boil; as soon as the water really boils draw the pan to the side of the stove and let it cool, and when perfectly cold, lift out the bottles, wipe and seal them up, and stand them upright in a cool place. The fruit for this purpose should be just28 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. in perfection, and at the point when the stalks can be easily lifted out. Strawberries to bottle.—Choose sound (not too ripe, but richly coloured) fruit, as even in size as possible ; pack them carefully and closely in delicately clean, wide-mouthed bottles, then pour on to them some very clear, plain syrup, till the bottles are three-quarters full and the fruit thoroughly covered. Cork the bottles down closely, and cook in the bain-marie in the usual way, putting them on in oold water, and bringing this slowly to 200 deg., when the pau is drawn aside, and the bottles left un- touched till the next day ; they are then lifted out, wiped, sealed, and stored in straw, necks downwards, in a dry place. Or : Choose the fruit as before, and fill the bottles closely with the fruit, then cork closely, covering the corks with damp bladder, tightly tied down; now cook in the bain-marie in the ordinary way, bringing the cold water gently to the boil, and then allowing it to boil for fifteen to twenty minutes, finish and store as in the pre- ceding recipe. The bottles must be looked at daily, and the fruit gently but well shaken together for just three weeks—this ensures their keeping. If the bladder on the corks blister while cooking rub it smooth with your moistened finger. Do not pre- serve fruit in this way in too large bottles, as, once opened, the contents must be used up at once. Also be very careful to have the bottles perfectly dry be- fore using them. To ensure this, the instant before they are filled, hold them neck down, and hold two or three lighted matches in the bottle, being careful29 CANNING AND BOTTLING. to drop in the fruit at once before the vapour escapes. Bottled Fruit (without sugar) for Tarts.—Choose fine (but not overripe) fruit, stalk and stone them if necessary, and put them into bottles, filling these well up ; then cork them up securely, and place them in a kettle as in the preceding recipe, and gradually heat the water to 200 deg.; then withdraw the heat- (a gas ring, or a good lamp stove, are handiest for these preserves), and leave the bottles in the kettle till next day, when they may be lifted out, wiped dry, sealed down, and stored in straw (necks down) in a dry place. Currants, gooseberries, raspberries, strawberries, &c., may all be preserved in this way ; but special care must be taken in choosing the soft fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, &c., not to have it too ripe, or it will go to a mash and probably mould. Fruit for this purpose must be gathered on a warm, dry day. Fruit Juice, to Preserve— Fruit juice can be pre- pared in precisely the same way as the fruit, i.e.r wring all the juice attainable from the fiuit, botLe, and boil in the bain-marie for twenty minutes, then finish off just like the other recipes. Sugar may be added to the bottle, but the usual plan is not to add it till the juice is to be used. This juice is particularly good for ices. Fruit in Brandy.—Take any stone fruit, such as apricots, plums, peaches, <&c. (which, though full grown, should not be dead ripe), prick them all over with a needle, and blanch them sufficiently long to- make them soft. (This requires care, for, though.PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 30 tender, they must not be too soft, as if for compote, when the skin must be thoroughly softened.) When the fruit is ready it will rise to the surface, and must then be lifted out with a skimmer and dropped into cold fresh water, well rinsed, and then drained on a sieve. Meanwhile, make a syrup by boiling sugar and water (in the proportion of two parts of sugar to one of water) together for a minute after the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, then lifting it off from the fire and skimming it carefully; now return it to the fire and let it boil till, on dipping your finger and thumb into cold water and then into the syrup, you can stretch them to the uttermost without breaking the thread that will form between them; then run it all through the jelly bag to clear it. (This syrup, if frequently wanted, can be made in .large quantities and bottled off for use as required.) Now lay the well-drained fruit into this syrup, give it one boil up, then lift it off the fire, and measure the syrup; mix this with the best brandy, allowing two parts brandy to one part syrup, put the fruit into wide-mouthed bottles, pour the brandied syrup over them, being careful to have them thoroughly covered, and when cold cork down the bottles as securely as possible. Pears preserved in this way are very delicious, but, after blanching and rinsing in cold water, must have their rinds taken off very thinly, and be again pricked to the core, and once more rinsed, drained, and finished off precisely as in the preceding recipe. Pine juicy eating pears should .be chosen for this purpose. Cherries in Brandy.—Choose large, well coloured,CANNING AND BOTTLING. 31 perfect, and not over-ripe fruit, cut the stalks half an inch from the fruit, and then arrange the latter in wide-mouthed bottles. Now dissolve good cane loaf sugar, broken small, in brandy, using a pint of brandy for every 21b. of sugar, mix it thoroughly, and when perfectly melted pour it on to the cherries, being careful to cover them thoroughly. Cork the bottles very tightly to make them airtight, aud store them in a very cool place. A clove or two, or a piece of stick cinnamon may be put into each bottle with the fruit. Walnuts in Brandy.—Choose the walnuts before they are altogether ripe, and peel them carefully to keep them as whole as possible, throwing them into cold water as you peel them. Now bring some water to the boil, throwing in the nuts, but be careful to lift the pan from the fire the moment you see it is going to boil up again, then drain them off into more cold water, acidulated with a little lemon juice (use enough lemon juice to give the water a notice- able but not too strong acid flavour), meanwhile, boil some good cane sugar to the small thread (i.e., till on dipping your finger and thumb into cold water, and then into the sugar, you can draw out a tiny thread between them), drain the nuts, place them in a basin, pour the boiled sugar on them, and leave them in this for the night. Next day strain off the sugar, again boil it up till on testing it as before, it will form a longer thread than the first time, before it snaps ; again let the nuts stand in this for a night; next day boil the sugar again till the thread will be longer still, and again leave them a fourth night,32 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. when you again boil up the sugar till on testing it, you can stretch your finger and thumb to their very widest without breaking the thread ; now put the nuts in a pan, and pour on to them the syrup mixed with an equal quantity of good brandy, place it on the fire and let it heat just short of boiling point; then fill up the bottles with the fruit and bran died syrup in such a way that the nuts will float in the liquid, and cork down closely. Walnuts prepared in this way are considered abroad an excellent stomachic, and as of very easy digestion. The inner peels, cut away from the nuts for this pre- paration, are also utilised abroad in this way : Rinse them well in fresh cold water, then drain, and lastly dry them gently in a clean cloth (remember that this cloth will be hopelessly stained, so do not use a good one). Now place them in bottles, with a few pieces of lump sugar, or better still sugar candy, fill up the bottles with good brandy, cork down closely, and store in a cool place. This is considered an excellent digestive, and invaluable in cases of colic. A liqueur-glassful is a dose. Figs in Syrup.—Choose nicely coloured, but not quite ripe, figs (those that form the second crop in England, and never entirely ripen, are excellent for this), prick them all over, dropping each as done into cold water, and finish off exactly as described in the recipe for dessert fruits at the beginning of this chapter. Green Oranges in Syrup (Chinois).—Choose nice well-shaped and even-sized green oranges such as one frequently gets on greenhouse orange-trees.33 CANNING AND BOTTLING. and proceed exactly as for the other fruit. Some people extract the core first "by means of a quill. These, when either frosted by drying in the oven, or by glazing with boiled sugar as before described, are favourite decorations for French gateaux under the name of chinois. Chestnuts in Syrup, and glazed.—Choose large, perfect nuts, and remove the outer skin carefully; then blanch them in boiling water till you can easily pierce them with a needle; now remove the inner skin, and drop each nut as done into warm acidulated water; meanwhile prepare a plain syrup as before, and when this is ready, drain the nuts, put them into it, and allow it all to simmer very gently together till they are tender, and the syrup is quite thick; they are then bottled, corked down, and stored as usual. If wanted for use, drain them on a sieve, boil some syrup to “ the crack,” and just before it is perfectly cold, work it against the sides of the pan with a wooden spoon till it whitens, dip the chestnuts into this singly with a skewer, and dry in the oven on trays. As marrons glaces do not keep well, it is more thrifty to store them in the syrup, and finish them off: as above, just as they are needed for use. DCHAPTER IV. „ \ JAMS, JELLIES AND PASTES. Like many other dainties which aforetime were always home made, jam has now come to he far more often bought than prepared from one’s own fruit in one’s own kitchen. Still, it must be admitted that connoisseurs regret the old fashion, which, they said, ensured far greater flavour than is now obtainable in any save the very highest (and, con- sequently, most expensive) class of bought goods. How far this increased flavour is worth the trouble it entails in towns is open to question, though more than one London housekeeper we wot of prides her- self on her cupboard of really home-made preserves. However, the trouble of procuring fruit in proper condition, a cook who really understands the woi'k, &c., is in most cases prohibitory to the town mouse. The same remarks, however, certainly do not apply to the country housekeeper, who has the fruit in her garden for the gathering; a range which may be utilised at certain times of the day when it is not required for other cooking and yet must be kept in; leisure for the manufacture, and room to store it when made; so that the whole expense lies in the jars and the sugar, both cheap enough in these days, even whenJAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. 35 housewifery and patriotism combined make us insist on pure cane sugar from our own colonies, and give us the determination necessary to ensure our getting the class of sugar we ask for! Where jam and preserve-making is a regular part of the housekeeping, a small outfit should be kept strictly for this purpose and none other. It need be neither costly nor extensive. A copper or bell-metal preserving pan (or, failing this, an enamelled one; but these, though cheaper to begin with, are not really so economical, as they are so apt to burn and chip, and in either case are then unfit for delicate jam-making), a couple of fine hair sieves, two or three squares of coarse delicately clean muslin, three or four wooden spoons of varying size and length, such is the complete list. To these, however, may be added, if preferred, a small lamp or gas stove, both to save using the kitchen range, and also because in this case the heat is more easily and quickly regulated; while, if the mistress is her own jam maker, a large silver or best plate spoon or two may be advised. Eemember that neither tin, iron, nor pewter should touch jam on pain of spoiling the colour of the preserve. Please also bear in mind that the cardinal ride in jam-making is perfect and minute cleanliness. Every utensil or apparatus used must be absolutely clean and sweet. The sugar used must be puxe cane (cheap sugar is one of the worst economies (?) ever devised, destructive alike to the appearance, flavour, and the keeping powers of any preserve made with it) ; the fruit must be just in perfection, neither over nor under-ripe, gathered on d 2PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 36 a dry, and if possible, sunny day, and be carefully picked over that there may be no imperfect or damaged fruit amongst it. Moreover, the fruit, if not used at once, must be kept in a cool place, well sheltered from dust. With regard to putting the sugar and fruit into the pan opinions vary. Some persons put in both together ; others, again, boil the sugar first, and then lay in the fruit (this, by the way, is the best plan, if you wish to keep the fruit whole) ; but, perhaps, the safest plan, on the whole, is to bring the fruit to the boil by itself first, and then put in the sugar (which should have been warmed, but not dissolved), as the keeping powers of the jam depend greatly on the thorough boiling of the fruit, which may take some little time ; yet, if you have the sugar boiling all the time, it will sometimes become quite sticky, and what old cooks call “tacky,” a result always due to the overboiling of the sugar. Again, if the fruit is not boiled sufficiently it will neither jelly nor set, and indeed, will almost certainly ferment. It is said that boiling up the fruit first, without the sugar, is a sure preventive of fermen- tation, and is decidedly to be recommended if jam has necessarily to be made in damp, muggy weather. As a general rule, the fruit and sugar should boil together from ten to fifteen minutes, but never longer than twenty minutes—in fact, when the fruit has been first boiled up alone, the shortest period mentioned is the best, But the safest plan is always to try the jam (after skimming it till no more scum rises'), by dropping a little on to a plate, and if in about a minute it has jellied enough to be too stiffJAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. 37 to run easily, it should be at once put into pots. Jam must always be boiled fast, as slow cooking in- variably spoils the colour, and, as long as fruit and sugar are being cooked together, the preserving pan must not be left. The jam must be kept constantly and gently stirred the whole time it is cooking, and the scum must be carefully removed as it rises. The difficulty about jam making for the beginner is that experience is indispensable, as the fruit varies so much each year that no hard and fast rules can be given. Again, remember that, if the fruit is boiled before adding the sugar, it must be carefully watched, for, if allowed to thicken too much, the sugar, when added, will neither melt properly, nor throw up its scum as it should do, and in some seasons when the fruit is very good the juice thickens up almost in a minute, so attention is needed. It must be re- membered that these directions are given on the understanding that the best cane sugar is used. Inferior sugar takes longer, as it throws up far more scum than the best clarified sugar will do, and this in itself is a waste, as a certain proportion of jam is bound to rise with the scum, and so be wasted. The question as to quantities is another very anxious one for the beginner. The old rule was equal weights of fruit and sugar, and this is, on the whole, i very safe one ; but in these days many per- sons consider jam made in these proportions too luscious, and prefer three quarters of a pound of sugar to the one pound of fruit, and in this case the rule of boiling up the fruit well before adding the sugar, should be strictly adhered to. Another point38 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. is that dry fruit requires the addition of a little liquid when first put into the preserving pan to keep it from burning, and of this the usual allowance is about a gill to the pound of fruit. Personally, I prefer a little rhubarb juice to the water recom- mended by some people. This juice is easily prepared by wiping, paring, and cutting up the stalks of rhubarb, then laying them on a dish, strewed with sugar, for an hour or so, to draw out the juice, the whole being then turned into a pre- serving pan, and heated very slowly and gradually till the juice is all drawn out; when it is strained and is ready for use ; this juice imparts little or no flavour to the fruit, yet is richer than plain water. Few people, by-the-way, know what an improvement a finely sliced stick of rhubarb is to almost any fruit tart, such as cherry, &c., improving both the quality and the quantity of the juice. Lastly, remember that the fire for jam making should be clear and strong, but not fierce, and on no account should the preserving pan rest directly on the fire itself, but should be placed on a trivet over the grate. As regards potting jam, authorities differ, some people declaring it must not be touched till jam and pots are alike cold; others, again, that it never keeps so well as when poured boiling hot into the pots and covered over at once, before it has time to cool. A round of white paper cut to fit the pot, and dipped in brandy, or spirit of some kind, then laid on the jam before covering down the pot with either parchment, bladder, &c., is most conducive to the welfare of the jam, which, if properly made and carefully covered,JAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. 39 will keep without deteriorating for three or four years, or even longer. I remember eating some jam which had been made very nearly five years, and certainly it could compare favourably with any other. Jam to keep well must be stored in a cool, dry place, free from draughts, and from any sudden changes of temperature—the evener the latter, the better the jam will keep. It is advisable when putting up jam to paste labels with the name of the jam and the date of its making on the sides of the jars, for when stored the names, if written, as they often are, on the top covering, are not visible, and so a good deal of confusion may arise. Be very careful when pouring the jam into the pots to keep the latter as free from splashes as possible, and if by any accident any is spilt, wipe it off at once with a damp cloth rung out of hot water; the importance of attention to this point is that, if not wiped off at once it cools and hardens quickly, and is then not easy to remove; and if the cover by any chance gets moistened by the stickiness thus left, the contents of the pot are very likely not to keep. The above are general rules applicable to all jams, but common sense must be used in applying them. For instance, jams, or marmalades as the French call them, should be cooked a little before adding the sugar; the same rule applies to jellies, which should be cooked first to extract the juice, and when tender should be drained through a fine sieve or jelly bag, and then boiled quickly with the requisite amount of sugar. But if the fruit is to be kept whole, either-PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 40 the sugar should be dissolved before putting in the fruit, or the latter should be cooked in a syrup made of fruit juice and sugar. The following will give an idea of this process: Have ready your fruit, whether strawberries, black currants, apricots, &c., as you please, and pick out a certain proportion of the finest; weigh these and put them in a pan sprinkled with an equal weight of fine preserving sugar (be careful when doing this to sprinkle the sugar in gradually in layers with the fruit, so as not to crush the latter), and leave them thus till next day. In the meantime take the rest of the fruit, together with some peeled and sliced stalks of rhubarb, and cook it all gently in a covered jar till the juice has flowed freely from it, then place it in a sieve and strain off all the liquid possible. Now take this juice and pour it over the sweetened fruit previously set aside, and leave this to soak together for another tweuty-f«>ur hours, allowing from one to two gills to each pound oi the preserved fruit, the quantity of added juice depending a great deal on whether the preserve is to be very juicy or not; now pour off all the j uice which will have appeared, and put it on to boil with an equal weight of pure cane susrar, allowing it to boil up rapidly, and, when it does, lay in the whole fruit, and boil altogether for twelve to fifteen minutes, stirring it very gently (not to break the fruit), and removing every particle of scum as it rises. This preserve is well worth the trouble it involves, for the fruit will be found quite firm and plump, as well as tender, while the syrup round it will he of a creamy consistency, delicious both in richness of flavour andJAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. 41 aroma. Almost any fruit can be preserved in this way, and none deserve it more than black currants, which will then be a revelation to a good many people, accustomed to the dry, sticky compound usually offered as black currant jam. But the success of the plan depends almost entirely on the thorough soaking of the whole fruit, first in the sugar, and then in the syrup. Strawberries, gooseberries, currants, black, red, and white, and cherries, are fit for preserving in June and July; raspberries in July, and perhaps August; apricots, greengages, and plums, from August to the end of September; whilst apples, crab apples, quinces, medlars, and rowans may be preserved from the end of August to November, according to the season. But, of course, these times, like the proportions for jam making, vary with the season. Lastly, one word of warning. Many wild fruits, such as blackberries, bullaces, sloes, &c., make delicious preserves, but as they must be dry for this purpose, and you cannot be sure through whose hands they may have passed before reaching you, always make them into jelly in preference to jam. The above general directions give a good idea of the ordinary method of making jams, and if carefully followed out any fruit can be preserved in this way. So it is needless to multiply recipes in so small a book as the present. It may therefore be as well to give a few recipes for the preparation of jellies. The general remarks respecting jams apply even more strongly to jellies, which, to be good, must be perfectly clear, and fairly stiff, and without thePICKLES AND PRESERVES. 42 least touch of “ ropiness”—given by over-boiled sugar. Take for instance : Red Currant Jelly.—For every 21b. of red currants take lib. of white (mind they are ripe and very juicy, and carefully stripped from their stalks)'; ’place these in the preserving pan, and keep them well- stined over the fire, to make them render their juice freelyas soon as they have done so, pour it off’ and weigh it and for each quart of juice take If lb. of’cane loaf sugar, broken into fairly large pieces, dip these int o cold water, and throw them, when well drenched, into a pan and boil them to a thick syrup, stirrino- it all well together till it “ drapes ” the skimmer, and falls in thick folds from it. blow pour in the juice at once, stir it all well together, and, when well blended, let it all boil together sharply for five minutes; then skim most carefully, and pour it into glasses which have been previously scalded and dried. White Currant Jelly.—Choose very fine and deli- cately white currants for this (gathered on a warm, dry day), and remove the stalks very carefully. To each pound of fruit allow lib. 2oz. best cane loaf sugar, and boil these together very quickly for seven or eight minutes, then turn it out on to a delicately clean sieve, and allow all the juice to drain from it putting this into small jars, which must be left in a cool, dry place till cold. Red currants can be made into jelly in the same way, only using equal weights of fruit and sugar. This makes a delicious jelly though its stiffness cannot be depended on if the weather be cold, and, above all, damp.43 JAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. Raw Currant Jelly.—Crusli the juice from fine, full-ripe, red currants with a new wooden spoon through a delicately clean sieve. For each pint of this juice take a pound of double-refined cane loaf sugar, broken and dipped till saturated with cold watei% and boiled to candy (i.e., till almost back to sugar again) ; then lift the pan from the fire, pour the currant juice to it, stirring it in quickly till it is all well mixed, then at once pour into small glass jars, and let these stand for a fortnight (before covering down) in a dry place, or in the sun, with just a paper laid over them to keep off the dust; then bladder them down, but on no account put any paper next the jelly, or it will crust the top. This is an old family recipe, over 100 years old, and jelly made by it has often kept for ten or twelve years. Strawberry Jelly.—Place the freshly gathered and stalked fruit in the preserving-pan over a clear slow fire; let the juice flow freely, stirring it all now and again with a silver or new wooden spoon, till it has been pretty well all extracted; then allow it to simmer gently for twenty-five to thirty minutes (but no longer, or it would thicken too much) ; now strain off the juice, weigh it, and then again boil it up sharply for twelve to fifteen minutes, stirring it constantly. Then lift the pan from the fire, and mix in, little by little, 12oz. of cane sugar to each pint of juice, being careful each lot is dissolved before the next is added in. When the juice and sugar are thoroughly blended, return the pan to the fire, and boil it sharply together till it will jelly when lifted in the spoon.PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 44 Guava Jelly (Mode).— Stew some perfectly ripe medlars in a stewpan, well covered with water, till thoroughly cooked (this will take several hours), when they must be turned into a jelly bag and the juice allowed to run through at its leisure, without the slightest pressure. When it has all run through, weigh it, and boil with an equal weight of broken up cane loaf sugar till quite clear, keeping it well stirred and skimmed; as it cools, pour it into glass jars, and when cold it should be a firm stiff jelly. Quince Jelly.—Peel, halve, and core the fruit, weigh it, and take a pint of cold spring water to every pound of fruit, dropping the latter into this as quickly as possible; let it all simmer together till the fruit is broken, but not mashed, or the colour will be ruined. Now run it all through the jelly bag at its leisure, being careful not to press or meddle with it in any way while the juice is running through ; when all the juice is extracted, weigh it, and boil in a delicately clean preserving pan for fifteen to twenty minutes, then for each pint of juice, when weighed, add three-quarters to one pound of cane loaf sugar (according to the ripeness and sweetness of the fruit), and boil it all up together again for ten or fifteen minutes, keeping it most carefully skimmed. Directly it jellies on the spoon pour it into pots or moulds. Quince Jam is a very good preserve, prepared thus: procure some juice as above from inferior fruit, then add half a pint of this juice to each pound of fruit, weighed after peeling, halving, and coring, and finish off in the usual way. Quince Paste.—A most delicious dessert paste can be prepared thus : Take a45 JAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. little of tlie jelly as in the first recipe, and in this stew some peeled, halved, and cored fruit till soft enough to pulp through a sieve when cool. Replace this pulp over a very clear fire and keep it well stirred till it becomes thick and dry. Weigh this paste, add to it an equal weight of (cane) caster sugar and stir this all together over the fire till it “balls,” leaving the sides of the pan, and clinging to the spoon. Spread this paste out on shallow tins, and as soon as it is cool cut it up into any shapes you please and dry these in a slack oven, afterwards storing them in an air-tight tin. (N.B.— Almost any fruit can be made into a paste thus, though for very juicy fruit, such as currants, &c., the fruit from which jelly is made answers admirably if all the juice has not been drawn away.) Elderberry Jelly.—Strip the berries from their stalks and stir them over the fire with a new wooden spoon till the juice flows freely; then strain it off thoroughly, though without in any way touching or handling the jelly bag (which would make it thiek and cloudy), weigh it, and boil up sharply for fifteen to twenty minutes; next add in, off the fire, 14oz. cane caster sugar to every pint of juice, and boil it all together for fifteen minutes, stirring and skim- ming it carefully, till it jellies. If the fruit is dry, a very little water may be boiled with it in the first placv.. (This is a German recipe, and is much used abroad for colds, coughs, &c.) Cranberry Jelly.—Well wash the berries in several waters, then drain them roughly and lay them into the preserving pan, with half a pint of water to each46 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. pound of fruit. Boil gently for half an hour, stirring and skimming well. Now run off the juice, weigh it, and to each pint allow lib. of sugar, and boil it all together till it jellies. Pot as usual. Some people add a few drops of carmine to bring up the colour. Tomato Jelly.—Quarter the fruit, and run out the juice in the preserving pan over a clear fire, and finish off in the usual way. (This is a Texan recipe, and is delicious with cold meat.) Tomato Jam is •easily made by peeling, quartering, and coring ripe, sound, and well-coloured tomatoes, boiling them with an equal weight of sugar, and, when this jellies, potting it as usual. Roivan (or Mountain Ash Berry) Jelly.-—Put the ripe red berries in the preserving pan with just •enough water to keep them from burning (about half a pint to every 21b. of berries), and simmer this all, stirring and "breaking the berries up with a spoon -to make the jelly flow freely. When they are quite soft and well broken up, turn them into a jelly bag, and run off as usual; let it run just as slowly as it likes, without handling. Weigh this juice, and return it to the pan, with lib. of sugar to each pint of juice, and boil for nearly an hour, or till it “geals.” (Scotch recipe.) Apple Jelly.—Wipe, quarter, stalk, and core the apples, also wipe a good stalk of rhubarb and cut it into pieces, then place both these into the preserving pan with two pints of water for 41b. of apples and a good stick of rhubarb ; boil it all gently together for fifteen minutes, or until the apples are quite in a47 JAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. % mask; now turn it mto the jelly hag and finish oil precisely as for other jellies. Crab Apple Jelly.-—This can he made exactly like apple jelly, only reducing the water considerably, say a gill to the pound of fruit, and using one and a quarter to one and a-half pounds of loaf sugar to the pint of juice. Or else: well wash the little apples (choosing the brightest coloured), but neither peel nor core them.- Halve or quarter them and lay them in the pan with just enough water to cover them, and cook them to a pulp, when you turn them into the jelly bag and let them drain off all the night. In the morning weigh the juice, and to every pint of juice, allow one pound of sugar, and boil till perfectly clear and of a bright rosy red; try it by dropping a little on a plate and if it stiffens it is ready and must be at once lifted off, and poured into moulds or pots. A little lemon juice or a few drops of essence of lemon may be added just at the last. (This is an American recipe, and is also often used for ordinary apple jelly, but only the brightest, red- skinned ones must be chosen). Hips and Haivs Jelly.—This can be made by exactly the same recipe as the rowan jelly. Grape Jelly.—This can be made precisely like every other jelly, i.e., the juice extracted, strained, weighed, and cooked with an equal weight of sugar, a par- ticularly fine jelly being made with either ripe purple or grben Muscat grapes, these last being perfectly ripe. The unripe grapes obtained when the vines are thinned are also capable of producing jelly in the came way, with the addition of just not enoughPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 48 water to cover them, when first put into the pre- serving pan. Finish as for rowan jelly. But the best way of using these unripe grapes is as a mar- malade. For this, put six pounds of the thinned out grapes into a saucepanful of boiling water, and as soon as they begin to swell, lift them off, add a little lemon juice and let them stand by the fire till quite green. Now turn them into an earthenware basin, and leave them till cool. When nearly cold rub them through a sieve and dry this puree over the fire. Then stir to it five pounds of cane sugar boiled to the crack, return it all to the fire, and cook till it will set nicely, when it is potted and covered down. Barberries, green apricots, and unripe windfalls can all be preserved in this way. A rougher and readier plan is to well wash the thinned grapes, then rinse them in fresh cold water, drain them lightly but do not dry them, and lay them in the preserving pan with an equal weight of sugar, and cook in the usual way, beiug very particular in the skimming, to remove all the seeds sent to the surface by the boiling. Windfall Jelly.—Wipe and stalk any small apples, windfalls, &c., but do not peel or core them, and cut out all bruised or decayed parts. Three parts fill a pot with them, with enough cold water to well cover them, and cook them to a pulp. Drain off as in preceding recipes till all the juice is extracted. Weigh this, and to each quart add lib. sugar, six or seven cloves, a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, a little stick cinnamon (tied up in muslin), and the thinly-pared rind and juice of half a lemon. Boil49 JAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. till thick, then remove the spice, and pot it. When cold it should be solid. (A most excellent and economic recipe.) Orange Marmalade.—Pare off the rind of the oranges as thin as may be, cutting it as you do so into tiny strips. Quarter the oranges and lay them in the pan with as much water as will cover them ; keep them well squeezed with your hand till they become too hot to bear your hand in it ; then press the pulp through a clean hair sieve; add the chips to this, and for each pint of juice allow a pound of sugar. The juice and grated rind of a lemon must be allowed to every 41b. of oranges, and the juice of two sweet ones to every pound of bitter oranges. Cook till it jellies, and pot as usual. (This is a well known and most excellent Scotch recipe.) If you treat the oranges as above, only removing all the white pith, and leaving out the peel, and cook the juice with sugar in the usual way, adding the peel of two sweet oranges and the peel of one lemon to the juice, when boiling it with the sugar, it produces a most excellent jelly. The rinds must be fished out of the jelly before potting it. Or : wash and wipe the oranges well to remove any dirt, but do not let them soak in the warer. Now halve the fruit and then slice it as thinly as possible with a sharp knife, removing the pips and throwing them into a teacupful of warm water. Now weigh the sliced pulp, and for each pound add about one and a quarter pints of cold water (if the oranges are not very juicy they may need more water), and let it all soak together for E50 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. twenty-four to forty-eight hours ; at the end of this time hoil it all together gently till the peel is soft enough to cut quite easily with the handle of a silver spoon. Now add to this the water in which the pips have soaked all this time (which will he quite glutinous), then measure the whole, reheat, and finish off as usual, with a pound of sugar to each pint of pulp. Tangerine Orange Marmalade.—This is made like any other marmalade, only adding a Seville and a sweet orange to every six tangerines, to bring out the flavour and to increase the juice. Lemon Marmalade.—Slice and remove the pips from twelve good lemons, and leave the slh-ed fruit till next day (or for twelve hours), in six or seven quarts of water; then boil this all gently together for two hours, and again leave till next day. Now weigh it, and take for each pound of pulp an equal weight of sugar, and boil till quite clear and beginning to set, when it must be potted and tied down whilst hot. Mock Ginger, or Vegetable Marrow Jam.—Peel the marrow and cut it into inch dice ; make a syrup with 21b. of brown (cane) sugar and five pints of water ; lay the marrow in this and let it steep for two days, when you strain it off. Have ready a second syrup made with a pound of loaf sugar, the juice and thinly-pared rind of two lemons, a grain of cayenne, and loz. of well-bruised whole ginger, for each pound of marrow. Lay the strained marrow into this syrup, set it over a clear fire, and when it begins to clear add a liqueur-glassful of brandy for these quantities,51 JAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. and cook till transparent, when it is ready. Pot and tie down. Rhubarb Jam.—Peel and cut the rhubarb into one and a half inch lengths; allow a pound of sugar to each pound of rhubarb, and lib. of dried figs cut up for every 51b. of fruit. Let the rhubarb stand, after cutting up, for twenty-four hours, covered with the sugar; then boil the juice that will have run from it for twenty minutes, after which add the fruit and the figs, and boil together for twenty minutes longer. This is an old Scotch recipe, and varies in almost every household as some add ground ginger to it, others the grated rind and juice of four lemons, or 2oz. of blanched and shred sweet almonds, &c. Orange Flower Conserve.—Mince the flowers, add to them the juice of a lemon, and then mix it with sugar (cooked), till on lifting it in the skimmer, and blowing through the latter the sugar flies off in great sparks ; let this all boil up a few times, then run it into moulds and dry in the stove. Take double the weight of sugar you have of blossoms. Rose Flower Conserve.—Einse and pound some fine rose leaves when at their freshest and sweetest, taking 7oz. of rose leaves to the pound of sugar, and cook till the syrup from the sugar is all absorbed; then moisten with a few drops of good rose water, pour it out on a wet board, and cut up into con- venient pieces when quite dry. Apricot Conserve. — Peel some perfectly ripe apricots, and throw them as done into cold water; then place them in boiling water, only removing them when they rise to the surface; draw the pan from e 252 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. the fire, and let the fruit get cold in this water, then return them to the fire in the same water, and let them cook (but without boiling) till they yield to the application of your finger. Now strain them from the water, drain them, and then dust them with plenty of sugar ; let the sugary side dry thoroughly before turning them gently to sugar the other side in the same way. They are quickest dried at the mouth of a slack oven. They should eacSi be placed in little paper cases, with paper in between to prevent their touching. Greengages are delicious this way. Orange and Lemon Peel to Candy.—Put the whole peels from the fruit into salt water for a few days, then lift them out and boil in fresh water till they are soft enough to be pierced with the head of a pin; now drain and put them aside. Boil lib. of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for five minutes, then pour it on to the peel; let this stand for a week, then drain off the syrup, bring it to the boil again, at once lay in the peel, and let it all boil gently to- gether till the peel looks clear; it can now be turned into a wide-mouthed bottle or jar (being careful it is entirely covered with syrup), and covered down. It is extremely useful for all household purposes in this way ; or if wanted candied, spread the peel out on a dish to cool, then powder it well with caster sugar, and leave it till dry, when it cau be stored in airtight tins. Raw Fruit Preserve.—This is a German compote, and one as easy to make as it is useful. Into a 71b. jam jar put a pint of rum or brandy (or, indeed, any spirit to taste), and lib. of caster sugar, then lay inJAMS, JELLIES, AND PASTES. 53 any fruit at hand (no matter how many kinds), after stalking, stoning, and wiping it when necessary, adding in a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit, and stirring it all up well from the bottom with a clean wooden spoon each time fruit is added. A pint of spirit is ample for 71b. of fruit and sugar. The fruit may be added all through the summer, just as it comes to perfection, It must be kept carefully covered with a bladder. The more sorts of fruit the nicer this is, only remember to cut up the large fruit into convenient pieces, and stir it all well together each time it is touched. A very delicate form of this compote can also be made of strawberries only, using brandy and a dash of maraschino. This is very delicate, and must be kept tightly covered down. This fruit compote should be kept at least a month before use.CHAPTER V. LIQEEUBS, WINES, &o. With the renewed fancy for iced sweets and frozen dishes of various kinds which has arisen of late, there has also become prevalent a desire for liqueurs, and such like liquids, which of old always formed part of the still-room stores, but have, since the neglect of that department, dropped in a great measure out of general use. It is a great pity, for many were distinctly pleasant, and not a few as distinctly wholesome ; whilst they demand very little trouble to make, and the expense is considerably less than if bought. The following, many of which are very old recipes, have been chosen as requiring no recondite utensils in their manufacture, and in- volving but little expense. But before starting on these recipes, it may be well to impress one or two points on the intending maker of such dainties. First, the fruit, used for liqueurs, cordials, &c., must be in prime condition, and the rules concerning fruit for preserving holds even more strongly with regard for those used in liqueurs. Next, see that the sugar is first-rate, and pure cane sugar at that. This may be a little more expensive at the start, but is amply made un by the superior quality of the55 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. result, both as to flavour and keeping power. Inferior sugar necessarily involves clarification, if the liqueur is not to be cloudy (an unpardonable fault), which wastes both time and material considerably, and gives a good deal of unnecessary trouble. In the following recipes it is taken for granted that pure cane sugar of the best quality is used, therefore nothing is said as to clarification. If, however, there is any doubt on the matter, here is the way to clarify the syrup: Put six or seven pounds of loaf sugar in a large preserving pan with two quarts of cold spring water, and the whites and shells of two eggs; let it come as slowly as possible to the boil, whisking it all the time with a delicately clean wire whisk, till the sugar is entirely dissolved; as soon as it boils up and a thick scum forms at the top, stop whisking at once, let it rise up in the pan for a moment, then at once turn off the flame if using a stove or a gas ring, or lift it off if it is on the fire; let it stand for a minute or two to settle, then pom* it off through a jelly bag previously scalded in boiling water, and wrung dry, into a basin, when it should run perfectly clear. It is well on these occasions to have two basins, and then if the first filtering does not run clear, it can be returned very gently to the bag, and the rest allowed to run into the other basin. This syrup will be of a very pale straw colour ; pure cane sugar of first quality gives a much whiter syrup. Lastly, remember the spirit used must be of good quality. Liqueur made with inferior spirit is never satisfactory. It is to this fact that a great deal of the non-success of home-made liqueurs is56 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. due, as it seems impossible to make the mistress (who thinks corked wines and the rinsings of the wine decanters the proper thing for culinary use), understand that coarse, common spirit of the cheapest kind can never be disguised. Therefore be careful as to the quality of all the materials used. Liqueur brandy, in spite of its name, or twenty-year- old whiskey is not required ; but sound, wholesome, and pure spirit undoubtedly is; so unless your vine merchant is trustworthy, if economy is essential even in luxuries, prefer pure rectified spirits of wine to any distinctive form of alcohol. The French, who are famous for their liqueurs, mostly use pure alcohol for this purpose, or eau-de-vie blanche, as they term it, which varies in strength from 50deg. to 60deg.; failing this, ordinary, good o.p. spirit will answer excellently. All the following liqueurs are fit to drink very soon after they are finished, but every one gains immensely by being kept at least six to twelve months. Be careful in corking them to have new corks, and to press these well home with the mallet till level with the mouth of the bottle. Mind, when driving these home, to hold the bottle in one hand without letting it touch anything, or, when you use the mallet, you may smash the bottle. Angelica Liqueur.—Take one pound of angelica without any leaves, split and chop up these stalks small, and let them steep in four and a half pints of good spirit, well covered, for six weeks. Then strain off, pressing the h ngelica well to extract every drop of juice; return this to the jar with a full half a pound of sugar, -|oz. of cinnamon, a pinch of mace, two o>-57 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. three cloves, and a few strips of lemon zest. Infnse for another six weeks, then strain through the jelly bag, bottle, and cork closely. Seal or not, as you choose. Anisette.—Melt two pounds of sugar candy in one pint of water, then mix into it one pint of good spirit (white) and twelve drops essence of anise seed. Shake every other day or so for a month. Improves with age. Or: Put into a jar a quart of spirit, the very thinly- pared rind or zest of twenty lemons, quarter of a pound of anise seed, and a bit of stick cinnamon; cork down closely and infuse for six weeks. Now break up two pounds of cane loaf sugar and dip each piece into water till just on the point of melting; strain off the liqueur in the jar, add this sugar to it, re-cork the jar (which must have been emptied out), and after shaking it well together let it stand a fortnight longer, then filter, and bottle off as before. Barberry Liqueur.—Bruise seven pounds of bar- berries in a marble mortar, then turn this pulp into a jar with seven pounds of best cane loaf sugar, pounded and sifted, cover with a gallon of spirit and let it all stand for ten days, well covered, then strain off through a clean hair sieve, let the juice stand for a little to settle, then filter it gently, bottle and cork. Bay Bum.—Infuse two pounds of fresh bay leaves in a gallon of white rum for a month, keeping it tightly corked, and shaking the jar every few days or so to shake up the leaves, then filter off and bottle. Blackberry Cordial.—Pick the blackberries over carefully, only taking the finest and ripest, then put58 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. them into a jar and bruise them a little, and to each quart of fruit allow a pint of whiskey; let these stand together for twelve hours, then stir together and strain through a jelly bag. Measure the liqueur, and to each quart allow 4oz. sugar, loz. well bruised ginger, and the rind of half a lemon thinly pared. Let it stand for ten or twelve days, then strain and bottle, sealing the corks. A variety of this is made by using brandy, and flavouring it when strained with -|oz. of cinnamon and one dram of cloves previously crushed and infused for a fortnight in a short half a pint of brandy. This requires standing a little longer than the first recipe. Brandy, Apricot.—See Peach Brandy. Cherry.—Stalk and stone the cherries, using half Morellas, and half the black juicy fruit; prick them lightly with a needle, and half fill some wide-mouthed bottles with the fruit, allowing six or eight cherry kernels, or three or four bitter almonds to each bottle, together with about loz. finely crushed sugar candy, and fill up with brandy. Let it stand for two months, then strain, re-bottle, and cork down tightly. (If preferred, leave the cherries in a little longer.) These same cherries make a delicious bonbon if dipped in royal icing and allowed to set. If, however, the cherries are to be used for this purpose, leave about half an inch of stalk on each. Ginger.—Put into a wide-mouthed quart bottle loz. slightly bruised old green Jamaica ginger and loz. crushed sugar candy, and fill up with good brandy. Let it stand for a month before straining it. Improves by keeping.59 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. Brandy, Orange.—Slice three Seville oranges into a jar, pour a bottle of brandy on them and let them stand for six weeks, closely covered; then strain, bottle, and cork down closely. (Some thrifty house- wives put the oranges in whole and let them stand two months; then, when the liqueur is strained off, the oranges are candied and used for dessert. But this liqueur is not so good.) Or : Pare the rind very thinly from eight Seville oranges and eight lemons, put them into a jai with a gallon of good brandy; make a syrup with eight pounds of loaf sugar and three or four pints of water, and pour this boiling on to the peel, &c. Let it all stand forty-eight hours, stirring it constantly, then strain and bottle off into pint bottles. (This is an old family recipe.) Peach.—Peel and slice six fairly ripe peaches over a basin, so as to lose none of the juice, then add the kernels, lightly bruised, and 3oz. to 4oz. crushed sugar candy, pouring over it all lastly a bottle of good brandy, and let it stand closely covered for six weeks. Now strain and bottle, corking down closely. Some people prefer adding the sugar in a clear syrup when the liqueur has been strained, as then they can regulate the sweetening to taste. (N.B.—This remark applies to almost every kind of home-made liqueur.) Or: Peel and halve six good ripe and large peaches, and arrange them in layers, with the hollow upper- most in a large glass jar, placing a blanched kernel in every second half peach ; strew caster sugar over each layer, covering the top layer rather more thickly, and using about fib. in all. Let this stand■60 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. till next day, then coyer with one and a half pints of pale brandy previously mixed with half a pint of syrup. Let it now stand for a month, then add a pint of spirit, and filter off as required. Apricots and the large “ golden drop ” plum are delicious in this way. Brandy, Lemon.—Pare off very thinly the rinds of six large fresh lemons, and steep these for six weeks in a pint of good brandy. Now strain it off, and add to it the strained juice of four lemons, a pint of good clear syrup, and, if liked, just enough saffron to colour it lightly. Creme d’Absinthe.—Put 3oz. of young green wormwood (absinthe) or, better still, the young flower shoots as they are about to open, into four or five quarts of good spirit, with three cloves and |oz. of stick cinnamon. Let it infuse for eight or nine days, then strain ; add to it one pint of plain syrup, filter, bottle, and cork securely. Mind nothing but silver (in the way of metal) touches this liqueur. Add a drop or two of liquid green colouring if not sufficiently coloured, but be careful with this. Be Menthe.—Lay from twelve to fifteen freshly gathered sprays of young mint in a jar, strain on to them the juice of two lemons, and then pour a pint of good brandy on it all, cover down closely and let it infuse for seven to fourteen days, according to the strength of flavour desired; then strain, sweeten with syrup to taste, bottle, and cork closely. ■ d’ Oranges. — Slice twelve or thirteen oranges and pour on to them three quarts of best61 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. rectified spirit and a pint of orange flower water • cover tlie jar containing all this very closely and let it stand for ten days. Now add to it 51b. of clarified sugar syrup, a quart of water, and foz. of tincture of saffron. Close tlie jar again closely, let it stand a fortnight longer, then strain it off through a jelly bag, and when it has settled pour it carefully off the lees, and bottle and seal it. (The lees of this liqueur are excellent for flavouring puddings, &c.) Cassis.—Pick over and crush 31b. of fine ripe black currants and put them in a jar with four and a half quarts of good gin, fib. of raspberries, two- cloves, a bit of cinnamon, and sugar or crushed sugar candy to taste. Let it stand for six weeks,, then strain, bottle, and keep for at least three months. Citron Cordial.—Peel off the rinds of sufficient citrons to give fib., and put this into a gallon of any good spirit, with fib. of very thinly pared orange rind, and two bruised nutmegs; let it stand for ten days, keeping it in a warm place, then add to it three pints of clarified syrup, mix well, and bottle- off. Coffee Liqueur (Suite au Cafe).—Roast 125 coffee beans to a delicate rich brown, but without a trace- of burning, make a syrup with lib. of good Demerara sugar (30 degrees), put the coffee into this, and let it boil up sharply two or three times with hardly any interval, then pour it all, boiling, on to one and a half pints of spirit; let it infuse, closely corked,, berries and all, for a month, then filter, bottle, and seal elosely.PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 62 Damson Cordial.—Prick some sound, ripe damsons all over with a needle, then pack them into wide mouthed bottles, in alternate layers of fruit and caster sugar; when the bottle is half full put in a lemon and an orange sliced or chopped (remove the pips), six or eight cloves, a small bit of cinnamon, joz. whole ginger, and a vanilla bean. Now fill up the bottle with fruit and sugar as before, and pour on to it a bottleful of the best gin, cork tightly, and keep in a dark place for six months. Ducalyqqtus Liqueur.—Put into a jar lib. of dried eucalyptus leaves, lfoz. juniper berries, 2oz. orange- flowers, and a quart of spirit; close it down tightly, and infuse for fourteen days, shaking it daily for a week; then strain, mix with a pint of clear syrup, filter, and bottle off. Gin, Cherry.—Stalk lib. of cherries, and scald (but do not boil) them in a quart of syrup, then lay them in wide-mouthed bottles, and pour on to them a quart of good unsweetened gin, and two quarts of svrup, including that in which they were scalded, and a bottle of essence of cherries; cork down closely. It is ready for use almost at once, but improves by keeping. Filter as wanted. Damson.—Choose ripe, sound fruit, and prick them in several places with a darning needle. Have ready, clean, dry, and wide-mouthed bottles, and drop in the damsons, about half filling them, and shaking in, as you do so, from lfoz. to 2oz. of crushed sugar-candy, and the kernels of five or six damsons, or as many bitter almonds (shred), and fill up with good unsweetened gin; cork the bottles63 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. tightly, and store in a dry place for two or three months, shaking the bottles every few days ; then strain off, bottle, and cork down closely. Improves by keeping. Grin, Sloe.—This is made in precisely the same way as damson gin, and both admit of some slight variations, such as the addition of a clove or two, one or two bitter almonds, a strip of finely peeled lemon rind to each bottle, or the use of syrup instead of the sugar-candy, the syrup being made either from sugar or suga.r-candy. It is well to remember that bullaces, cherries, currants of all colours (only adding a few currant leaves), rasp- berries, blackberries, sloes, &c., can all be made into liqueur in this way, the sloes being especially good. Apricots and greengages are also good this way, but still better to most tastes if good brandy or white rum be substituted for the gin. Pineapple is also excellent with this treatment. Orange.—Pare very thinly the rind of twelve oranges, and infuse them for a month in a gallon of best unsweetened gin, in a tightly closed jar; now strain off the liquid, add to it -±Ib. of powdered sugar-candy, and leave for a week or ten days till it is thoroughly dissolved, then filter, &c. Ginger Cordial.—There are several makes of this. I. Put into a jar a quart of any kind of spirit (originally the white eau-de-vie was used for this), with the rind and strained juice of two lemons, the juice of two oranges, and 2oz. of whole ginger crushed pretty fine. Now measure lib. of loaf sugar broken up into lumps, dip each of these quickly into cold, springPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 64 water, and throw each (when well wetted) into a brass skillet; then boil it all till it clears to a pale straw colour, and pour it over the other ingredients. Let it all stand for twenty-four hours, stirring it frequently, then bottle off for use. II. Strip the stalks from lib. of white currants, bruise them gently in a bowl, then for each lib. of currants add a quart of good whisky and the thinly pared rind of a lemon ; let it stand for twenty-four hours, and strain off. Then to this add lib. of crushed loaf sugar and foz. of well-crushed whole ginger. Let this steep again, well covered down for a few days (the length of steeping depends on the strength you wish the ginger flavour to have), then filter, and bottle off. After making this cordial you can produce excellent essence of ginger by putting the ginger used in making the liqueur into a bottle, and covering it well with whisky, allowing it to steep for a month or so. Of course, freshly pounded root ginger makes the essence quicker, but the other is very satisfactory. Goldivasser (Dcintzig).—To a quart of pure white spirit add twelve drops of essence of anise seed, six of oil of cinnamon, three of oil of roses, and eight of oil of citron; then mix it with a quart of clear syrup, filter it, and, when bottling, break into it tiny pieces of gold leaf. Kiimmel.—Infuse loz. of carraway seeds in a quart of unsweetened gin, with |oz. to foz. of crushed sugar candy, for two or three months, then strain off and bottle. Improves by keeping. Carraivay Brandy, a favourite German liqueur.LIQUEURS, WINES, Ac. 65 is made in the same way, by infusing loz. of the seeds in a bottle of good brandy for two or three months, then strain; mix with a syrup made of fib. of loaf sugar, boiled to a syrup with a very little water. Both these liqueurs are looked on as excellent stomachics. Another way of making this liqueur is by mixing together well seventy drops of oil of carra- ways and from three-quarters to a quart of clear syrup ; shake it well together, then filter and bottle. “ Madame Anne's Liqueur.”—Put into a jar a gallon of brandy or extra good whisky, with 41b. of white currants, 41b. loaf sugar, loz. of ground cinnamon, loz. of cloves, and loz. ground bitter almonds; shake these all well together, and let it stand closely covered for three or four weeks, shaking the jar two or three times a day all the time. Strain it off through very fine muslin, let it stand to settle, then bottle, pouring it off very carefully. A secret well known to old liqueur makers was the fragrance imparted to most liqueurs by the use of flowers, which were left shut up in the casks or jars to be used for three days to a week, the container being closely corked down. The liqueur was then poured in the very instant the flowers were removed. A magnolia flower tied to a string and hung in this wav will give a most delicious though indescribable bouquet to a large jar. Mandarine.—Remove every scrap of white pith from the rind of some Tangerine or Mandarine oranges, and steep this peel for one to two months in alcohol, at 85deg., allowing 4oz. of FPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 66 Tangerine (or 6oz. Mandarin) peel to every three pints of spirit. When it has stood well, bottle off, adding to it three pints of clear syrup. A few drops of treble distilled orange flower water are an addition to this. Maraschino.—Stone seven pounds of Morelia cherries saving all the juice, and adding to them the kernels of their stones, then crush it all in a marble mortar, and lay this pulp into a large jar with about three pounds of wild cherry leaves, or failing these the same quantity of peach leaves, a quarter of a pound of red rose leaves, loz. fresh orange blossoms, and loz. white jessamine flowers (these leaves and flowers should all be first lightly bruised in the mortar), and six pounds best loaf sugar, pour over it all five quarts of pure white spirit and let it infuse for a month, then filter and bottle off. Punch, Milk.—Pare very thinly the rinds of twelve lemons and two Seville oranges, and put them into a jar, straining their juice on to them ; now add a nutmeg grated, two and a half pounds of broken up loaf sugar, a bottle of brandy, and one and a half of rum, then cover closely, and let it stand for forty- eight hours. Now add to it five pints of water, and a quart of boiling milk. Let it all stand for an hour or so, then strain off through a double jelly bag, and bottle, sealing down closely. It takes about treble this quantity of material to make two dozen bottles of this punch, which keeps well. Noyeau.—Infuse 2oz. sweet and loz. bitter almonds (previously crushed in a marble mortar), with about67 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. 3oz. loaf sugar, in a quart of gin for a fortnight, then strain through muslin and blotting paper, and bottle off. Some persons add peach or apricot kernels to the almonds, and two or three peachleaves to the quart of spirit; whilst others add finely pared lemon rind in the proportion of one and a half lemons to the quart. Ratafia, Apricot.—Blanch and shred three-quarters of a pound of apricot kernels, and infuse these for fifteen days in five quarts of brandy, shaking the bottle every now and then; now drain off the kernels on a sieve, returning the droppings to the rest; then mix this liqueur with a syrup made with four pounds of sugar and two and a half pints of water, filter and bottle off. Fruit.—Put into a crock one gallon of brandy, two quarts of fruit juice, two pounds of sugar, two or three cloves, |oz. cinnamon, and a bit of lemon peel; let this stand for a month, then filter and bottle off. All kinds of soft fruit, such as blackberries, currants, mulberries, &c., can be used thus. Orange.—Put the finely pared rind of twelve or fourteen oranges into a gallon of brandy, and strain the juice of the oranges on to two pounds of sugar ; put the orange pips into a cupful of warm water, and let them steep. When the sugar is melted add it and the juice to the brandy, and lastly the water in which the pips were steeped. (These should steep till the water becomes slightly gelatinous). Let this all stand a month, then filter and bottle off. Orange Flower.—Infuse two full ounces f 2PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 68 of fresh orange blossoms for four days in three and a half pints of pure spirit, or brandy ; then strain, mix with a clear syrup made by boiling l|lb. of best loaf sugar in one and a half pints of water, filter and bottle off. Jessamine flowers also make a delicious ratafia, if 4oz. are infused in three pints of white spirit for four days, then strained, mixed with a pint of syrup (thirty degrees) filtered and bottled off. Ratafia, Quince.—Grate some very ripe quinces to the core, and strew on it about loz. of caster sugar to the pound of fruit, and let it stand twenty- four hours. Now wring it well to extract every drop of liquid, and mix it with an equal quantity of brandy, adding 2oz. of loaf sugar to every pint of the mixture, and either a piece of stick cinnamon or jib. of angelica for every pound of quince. Let it stand for a little, then filter and bottle off. Another way is to steep the grated quince in the brandy or spirit, allowing a pound of quince, grated, to nearly a gallon of spirit, sweetening it when strained with about the same amount of clear syrup, (This recipe is a French one, and the liquid is measured by litres.) Raspail Liqueur.—Take a nutmeg, and of cloves, myrrh, and succotrin aloes each 2 grammes, 25 centi- grammes of saffron, 4oz. calamus aromaticus, and 8 grammes of vanilla; steep this in the sun for fifteen days, shaking the bottle daily, in a quart of brandy, then dissolve in it lib. of loaf sugar; when this is thoroughly melted, filter it off and keep it closely stoppered, in a dark cupboard. I have given the French quantities as this is a much praised French liqueur.LIQUEURS. WINES, &c. 09 Strawberry Liqueur.—Choose very ripe red straw- berries, and three parts till some wide-mouthed bottles with these (do not pack too closely), then add as much caster sugar as will fill up the bottle, and a strip or two of very finely pared lemon rind, fill up with brandy, and let it steep for a month. Alpine strawberries are best for this. Rotvan Whiskey.—Choose ripe and red mountain ash berries, prick them a little, and put them into a large jar with alternate layers of crushed sugar candy, using equal weight of candy and fruit, and pour on to it some good whiskey, in the proportion of a gallon for every 71b. of fruit. (This is a Russian recipe, in which vodki is used, but the giver of it said whiskey was the nearest available spirit. It certainly makes a good liqueur.) It should stand for a fortnight at least, before straining and filtering. Juniper berries make a very good liqueur also, though they are made in less heroic quantities ; fib. of berries being infused for a fortnight in two quarts of brandy with 6oz. of loaf sugar, closely stoppered down, then strained off, filtered, bottled, and corked closely. Vanderhum (Old Dutch recipe).—For every quart of good brandy allow a good dessertspoonful of bruised (not ground) cinnamon, four or five cloves, two tablespoonfuls of finely pared Tangerine orange rind (nartje-rind) and a grate of nutmeg. Mix all these well together and let them infuse for a month to extract all the flavour possible, then boil some clear, brown crystallised (cane) sugar to a thick richPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 70 syrup (putting |lb. of sugar to the quart of brandy); add a pint of this syrup and a wineglassful of best rum to each quart of brandy, &c., and let it all stand together for three weeks; then strain off carefully, filtering it if necessary, and bottle. The brandy and rum used for this must be of really good quality, especially the rum, as this mellows the whole. Some people use sugar-candy instead of the sugar, but this is a matter of taste. At the Cape, where this liqueur is made in large quantities, it is put into a cask after the syrup is added, a stiffly- whisked white of egg being laid in lightly at the top for each gallon of liqueur, to clear it, and at the end of three weeks it is bottled off. Vanilla Liqueur (Creme de vanille).—Dissolve 21b. lOoz. of best loaf sugar broken up small in three pints of filtered water (this liqueur is so delicate it is well worth using distilled water for it) ; when this has boiled up once, pour it boiling on to three drachms of stick vanilla cut in pieces, and half a grain of amber. When this is quite cold add to it three pints of good brandy, cover down closely, and let it infuse for six days ; then colour with a little prepared cochineal, filter, bottle, cork tightly, and seal. Vespetro.—Put into a jar loz. each of angelica seeds, anise seed, coriander seed, carraway seed, and fennel seed; put with it 31b. crushed sugar-candy, and one gallon of brandy, and infuse closely covered for six week*, then filter and bottle off. Walnut Liqueur.—Gather the nuts in June or July (when the shells are still soft), then put into a large71 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. wide-mouthed bottle about thirty green walnuts, thirty cloves, a pinch of vanilla, or cinnamon, and one and a half pints of spirit; cork down closely and stand the bottle in the sun for five or six weeks, shaking- it daily, to soak the fruit thoroughly. Now strain well and make a syrup with the liquor strained from the nuts, lflb. loaf sugar, a full half pint of water, and about a gill more spirit, or brandy. Let this stand till nearly cold, then filter, bottle, cork, and seal, and keep for at least six months in an even temperature. It is an improvement to either cut up or prick the nuts before adding them to the brandy, and, if preferred, crushed sugar-can'ty can be used instead of sugar. In G-ermany Nuss Schnapps (Walnut gin) is made in exactly the same way, only using B ollands for the spirit, and omitting the sugar. This liqueur which should be of a faint green, is considered a great stomachic in Germany. It may be worth reminding thrifty housewives, that these liqueurs are well worth making for kitchen purposes, as they save the more expensive bought liqueurs and are very easily prepared, as being for use in flavouring sweet dishes there need be no syrup added; the method usually consists of adding a certain proportion of any sort of essence to the spirit, in about the proportion of ten to fifteen drops of any concentrated essence to taste, to one and a half pints of spirit, and infusing for a fortnight before bottling it off. (Remember the proportion must vary slightly with the strength and freshness of the essence used.) Or indeed any of the previous recipes may bePICKLES AND PRESERVES. 72 followed, omitting the syrup. A very useful specimen of this class is Spirit of CuraQoa.—For this dry the thinly pared rind of four lemons, four sweet and four Seville oranges in the oven, then infuse them for a month in three pints of brandy or any spirit to taste, with a piece of stick cinnamon and a tiny blade of mace. Keep this closely covered and at the end of the time filter and bottle off in little bottles. Or Spirit of Bosolio.—Infuse for a fortnight fifty grammes of fresh orange blossom petals, five grammes of cinnamon, two of mace, two of cloves, ten grammes of rose and jessamine petals, half the thinly pared rind of one citron and one lemon, and a morsel of vanilla in a full quart of spirit, then filter and bottle. The addition of sufficient cold, clear syrup to taste will convert any of these so- called “ spirits ” into very nice liqueurs.CHAPTER VI. REQUEUES, WINES, &c. (Continued). Formerly home-made wines were in great request, and every kind of fruit and, indeed, vegetable, was utilised for this purpose. The fashion has, however, somewhat died out, though here and there house- wives still ask for recipes for cowslip, blackberry, and other wines of this kind, and recipes for these have frequently appeared in the columns of the Queen. Indeed, many of these are very useful in the kitchen. Home-made Red Wine.—Take of rhubarb (autumn), 141b.; elderberries, one gallon ; bilberries, one gal- lon. Cut the rhubarb into inch pieces, pound it well with a wooden mallet, and put it in a very clean mash tub. Then add the elderberries, and, lastly, the bilberries, crushing both of these well in a bowl before adding them, being careful that each berry is crushed. Now, for this quantity of fruit, pour to it four and a half gallons of freshly boiled and boiling water, cover with a blanket or folded cloth, to keep out the dust, and let it stand four or five days, by which time it will have formed a thick crust on the top. (It will do this sooner if the weather is close.) Now draw off the liquor very carefully by means ofPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 74 a little wooden tap, wlticli should have been fixed close to the bottom of the tub, being very particular not to break the crust; if there is no tap, this crust must be skimmed off, but this is very troublesome, as every scrap must be removed, or it will hopelessly cloud the wine. Now for each gallon of liquid allow 31b. of (cane) brown sugar, mix it well in, and pour the result into a cask, keeping back a gallon of the liquid to add later on. It will take seven to eight days to finish the fermentation, and this surplus liquor may be added in gradually during this process. Meanwhile, soak 2oz. of gelatine in a pint of the liquid, and then dissolve it over the fire, and pour this solution to the wine when the fermentation stops; then bung it down closely, and let it stand for five or six months. When ready add to it a quart of elderflower water and a gill of mock or real kirschwasser. Apple Wine— Put into a pan four quarts of apples, crush lightly, and pour on to it a gallon of boiling water. Cover, and let it stand a fortnight, then strain, and to each pound of juice allow lib. of loaf sugar slightly moistened in hot water. When this is dissolved, pour the liquid into crocks, covered with a sheet of paper or a cloth to keep out the dust, but do not cork down, Let this stand until it has worked, i. e. until it is all covered with a thick scum; remove this with a quill or by the tap, and if no more scum rises by the next day, bottle, cork, and seal. It improves greatly by keeping. Birch Wine.—To each gallon of the birch-tree sap boiled put 41b. loaf sugar, and the thinly pared rindLIQUEURS, WINES, &c. 75 of a lemon. Boil and skim this well, and when cool add a toast with fresh jeast; let it ferment for four or five days, then cork it down closely, and in four weeks rack it off and bottle. Home-made Champagne.—Bruise well with a wooden mallet 71b. green gooseberries and 141b. of good rhubarb, cut into inch lengths ; now put it into a large tub with a wooden tap fitted near the bottom, pour five gallons of freshly boiled and boiling water upon it, and let it stand for five days. When a thick crust forms on the surface draw off as in the previous recipe, then mix into it 3flb. of sugar to each gallon of liquid, mix it well, and put it into a very clean cask, add a quart of elderflower water, and about 2-rOz. of gelatine, dissolved as before in a pint of the wine, heated; draiw it off in twenty-four hours, then bottle in champagne bottles, wiring it d.own. Keep in an even moderate temperature. Improves by keeping. Blackberry Wine.—Choose ripe full fruit, gathered on a dry day, and mash it well; now for every pint of fruit pour on to it a pint of freshly-boiled and boiling water, stir it well together, and let it stand till a crust forms on the surface, which it will do in about four or five days. Now draw it off gently without disturbing the crust, add a pound of sugar to each gallon of liquid, pour it into a cask and let it work for twelve days; then add to it a stick of cinnamm, and, if liked, a gill of gin, or brandy, for each gallon of wine; bung down, and store for ten or twelve months. Cowslip Wine.—Boil together six gallons of water,PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 76 the whites of four eggs, 121b. roughly crushed loaf sugar, and the juice of five or six lemons, for half an hour, keeping it well skimmed. Now put into a delicately clean tub two pecks of cowslip flowers freed from the stalks, together with the thinly-pared rind of three or four lemons (if small), and pour the boiling syrup on it; keep it well stirred with a clean stick, and when it is just lukewarm add a slice of bread carefully toasted (not burnt) on both sides, and spread with fresh yeast, Let this all stand hi a cool place for three or four days, then strain it all off, pressing the flowers well to extract all the juice, and pour it into a clean cask (which should have been washed out with a little decent spirit); press the bung in lightly for a few days till it stops working, then bung down closely and let it stand for three months before bottling. A gill of spirit to the gallon of wine should be added, if it is to be kept for some time. It must be remembered that the merit of this wine (which, if properly made, is considerable), depends almost entirely on the care bestowed on it, and the perfect cleanliness of every utensil used. Coltsfoot Wine, formerly highly prized for its medicinal qualities, is made in the same way, only using from one to one and a half pecks of flowers instead of two, with the addition of 31b. of stoned and halved raisins. Currant Wine.—Put into a perfectly clean, dry tub, six quarts of currant juice, and pour on it 121b. of sugar previously dissolved in six quarts of boiling water, and let it stand to ferment, which it will do77 LIQUEURS, WINES, Ac- for itself without any help. Keep hack a little of the liquid to add to the wine when it has fermented, and has been drawn off. A quart of brandy should be added to the cask for this quantity of wine, just as you close the cask, and it will then keep for years. This wine is well worth the making, and can be made with either biack or red currants, the former being specially luscious. Damson Wine.—Boil together equal quantities of sugar and water, then add the stalked fruit, and boil it together till it is all in a mash, allowing 61b. of fruit to the gallon of syrup; now strain it off into a clean tub, pressing it to get out all the juice, and let it ferment as before; then draw it off, put it into a cask with the gelatine (as in Red Wine), and a quart of brandy for every four gallons. Do not bottle for a year, and then strain through flannel into the bottles, cork down well and store for another year before drinking. Dandelion Wine.—Put into a tub four quarts of the yellow petals of the dandelion, and pour on to it a gallon of water that has been boiled and then allowed to cool till only just warm; stir it well together, then cover with a doubled blanket and let it stand for three days, stirring it every now and then. Now strain off the flowers, boil the liquid for half an hour with the thinly pared rinds of^one lemon and one orange, with a little piece of bruised ginger, and 3|lb. of sugar to each gallon. Add the pulp of the lemons, sliced, to the boiling liquid, and when cool ferment with a slice of toast spread with yeast. Let it stand for two or three days, then draw78 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. oft' as before into a cask; let it stand for two months, and then bottle. (This wine is said to be excellent for liver complaints.) Elderberry Wine.—On to a gallon of elderberries pour a gallon of boiling water and let it stand for twelve hours; then strain it off, and boil the liquor with 311b. of loaf sugar; when boiling, clarify with -the whites of three or four eggs, strain it through a jelly bag, and add to it Joz. of ground ginger for ■every gallon of wine, and let it boil together for a little more; then pour it into the tub and when cool put in the toast spread with yeast as before. Let it ferment for a few days, then draw it off carefully .and put into a cask previously rinsed out with brandy. If to be kept, add half a pint of brandy to •each gallon. Let it stand for six months, then bottle off. Elderflower Wine.—Whisk the whites of six eggs to a froth, and put them with six gallons of water and 161b. of loaf sugar; boil well, skimming care- fully, then add to the boiling liquid 81b. of best raisins, stoned and chopped, and a quarter-peck of elderflowers, and allow these to infuse—do not boil them—till quite cool, when you put in a quarter of a pint of yeast to it, stirring it well up. Let it stand •covered till the next day, when you add in the juice and thinly pared rind of four lemons, and let it ferment in the tub for three days, then draw off and cask as before. Ginger Wine.—For every ten gallons of water take 231b. of loaf sugar and lib. of bruised ginger. Boil it all together for half-an-hour, stirring and skimming79 LIQUEURS, WINES, &o. it constantly; the last ten minutes it is boiling, put in the juice of thirty-six large lemons, with half the peels minced as fine as may be. Now pour this into the tub and when cool add the toast spread with yeast as before. When the fermentation ceases, skim off the crust very carefully, and put the liquor into the cask with the ginger, lemon peel, and |oz. of isinglass, and also a quart of brandy. When it has ceased hissing, stop the cask down tightly, and leave it for three weeks, then bottle off. If the cask holds ten gallons, it is best to make eleven gallons of the wine, and keep filling up the cask till it has done hissing. Be sure to keep it closely stopped. From experience I should recommend peeling the lemons very thinly in preference to mincing them. Best made about April. It is marvellously effervescent. Gooseberry Wine (White).—To every quart of ripe white gooseberries take one and a half quarts of water and 12oz. of sugar, crushed and dissolved; stir this all together in the tub, cover it over with a blanket (unless you do this it slackens the fermenta- tion), and let it all stand for three days, stirring it occasionally; then strain it off into a cask, filling this up with some of the liquid kept back for the purpose, till it ceases hissing; now for every gallon of wine add half a pint each of brandy and sherry, and bung it up as tightly as possible. Let it stand from three to six months, then bottle. This is a recipe of Meg Dod’s, and produces a really excel- lent liquor. It also answers for various fruits, such as currants (white especially), &c. Grape Wine.—This is an old recipe, dating, I80 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. fancy, from the days when grape vines grew on every south-facing cottage. Take the fruit before it is thoroughly ripe, and put it (stalks and all) into the tub; crush it till every berry is broken, then for each pound of fruit add a quart of cold water; cover with a blanket, and let it stand for three days, stirring it pretty frequently, and then strain off, adding three full pounds of loaf sugar to every gallon of the wine. As soon as this is dissolved, pour it all into a cask, which should be full (keep back two or three quarts to fill up with), and add a little more as the fermentation subsides. In about ten days it will have stopped hissing, then pour in about a quarter of a pint of brandy to each gallon, and ^oz. of best leaf gelatine, dissolved in a little of the wine, for every five gallons. Bung up and store in a cool place. Be very car-eful not to add the brandy and gelatine till the cask has quite done hissing, and then fasten up very securely. Leave it till the next year, and bottle when the vines are in bloom, corking, and wiring down firmly. Grape Wine (Unfermented).—Pick free from stalk and stem 101b. of grapes, put them into a preserving pan with a little water, let them cook till the pulp and stones separate, then press and strain them through a jelly bag; return the juice to the pan, adding 31b. of white sugar; let the sugar melt slowly, then bring the mixture to boiling point; bottle whilst hot and seal it. This quantity of grapes ought to make a gallon of wine. Orange Wine.—Take ten Seville oranges and 31b. of sugar for every gallon. Strain into a delicately81 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. clean cask the juice of the fruit and the sugar; and put the squeezed pulp into a basin, and pour on to it two quarts of water, let it stand for twenty-four hours, then strain off to the rest in the tub. Now add the thinly pared rinds of half the oranges used, to the pulp, pour another two quarts on this, again let it stand for twenty-four hours, and strain this also into the cask. Repeat this steeping with the twenty-four hours interval until the cask is full, stirring it all well up daily. Let it all stand for three days, then bung it down closely, and leave it for nine months; then bottle off, but do not drink it till three months later. Of course these quantities may be increased a discretion, and accord- ing to the size of the cask, but always keep to these proportions. Or: Dissolve 81b. of loaf sugar and 41b. of honey in six gallons of water, add the lightly whisked whites of ten or twelve eggs, and bring the whole to the boil gently, whisking it all the time, then strain it off through a jelly bag; when nearly cold put in two tablespoonfuls of yeast, and the juice of twelve lemons ; let it stand till the next day, then skim it well, add the thinly pared rinds of the lemons, and also of thirty-six to forty-eight Seville oranges, together with the strained juice of the forty-eight oranges. Let it ferment for three days, then cask. The quantity of orange peel is a matter of taste, some people especially liking the somewhat bitter flavour they give, whilst others again dislike it intensely. You can also if preferred, use only sugar (121b. instead of the 81b. given), but the honey gives a82 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. a very mellow flavour. For those who like it, a stalk or two of angelica may be put with the oranges in the pulping stage. Parsnip Wine.—Clean and quarter 41b. of parsnips, and put them on to boil with a gallon of water; when they are quite soft, strain off the liquor, being careful not to crush the parsnips in so doing. Now for each gallon of liquid add 31b. of sngar, and ^oz. crude tartar. When nearly cold, put a toast spread with yeast to it, and let it stand for four days in a warm room, then strain and cask, bunging it up closely. If properly made, this pro- duces an uncommonly nice liquor. Our grand- mothers made liorse-radisli wine (reckoned a sovereign remedy for gout), by this recipe. Primrose Wine. Boil together for half an hour six gallons of water with 121b. roughly broken up loaf sugar, the juice of four juicy lemons (or four or five ripe limes), and the lightly whisked whites of four eggs, skimming it carefully and constantly. Now put into a delicately clean pan a full peck of primrose flowers, and the very thinly pared rinds of the lemons, or limes, and on this pour the syrup given above, whilst absolutely boiling. Stir this mixtuve for a few minutes with a silver spoon, or failing this anew, and freshly scalded wooden spoon. When it is all luke-warm, lay in a delicately toasted shoe of bread spread with fresh yeast, cover the tub with a doubled blanket, and leave for three or four days, in a cool place. Now strain oft' the liquid, pressing the flowers with the hand to extract all their juice, and pour it into a delicately clean cask,83 LIQUEURS, WIRES, &c. previously rinsed out -witli sherry or pale brandy, bung up loosely, and do not fasten up tightly till it ceases to hiss. Leave it in the cask for at least three months before bottling it. A gill of pale brandy to each gallon improves its keeping power, and all old cookery books recommend for this, and all “ flower ” wines, the addition of “ a bottle of Rhenish,” i.e., a bottle of white Rhine wine to each cask, put in like the brandy when the wine is strained into it. Raisin Wine.—Into a hogshead put 2cwt. of good raisins, and fill up with water. Steep this for a full fortnight, stirring it every day, then pour off the liquor, pressing the fruit to extract all the juice possible. Pour this liquor into a cask that will just hold it, remembering that it must be quite full. Bung loosely, and let it stand till it has quite ceased hissing, when you bung it down as tightly as possible, and let it stand for six months. Then rack it off into another cask, if it is quite clear, let it stand three months longer, and then bottle. Serve strained into a decanter. Rhubarb Wine.—Cut up into a large pan or tub about 51b. of nice rhubarb, bruising it well; then pour on to it a gallon of cold water and let it stand for five days, stirring it every night and morning; then strain off the liquor, add to it about 41b. of cane loaf sugar, and, when this is dissolved, put in the thinly pared rind of a lemon, and |oz. of isinglass; again let it stand for five days, till the fermentation is subsiding, when you either skim off the crust very carefully and pour off the wine, or else draw it off a 284 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. by means of the tap without disturbing the crust (which is the best way), and cask it, not fastening it down completely for fourteen days. If this wine is to be drunk from the cask it needs no fortifying, but if to be kept, a gill of brandy should be added for every gallon made. Bottle off in six months, wiring down the corks. If it shows any signs of fermenting after it is in cask, strain it off into another clean cask. Rowan Wine.—Gather the rowan berries when they are ripe, on a dry day, and put them into the mash tub with just enough boiling water to cover them. Let it all stand, covered, for three days, then draw off the liquid, without disturbing the crust, into a pan, and add to it lib. of best cane loaf sugar, or sugar candy crushed small, for each gallon of rowan liquor, and stir it well together till thoroughly dissolved, when it must be poured into a cask and left to work for a week, keeping the cask well filled up all the time (this is a most important point, and one that applies to every form of home-made wine); when it ceases to work, and is perfectly still, bung it down tightly and let it stand for six months, when it will be fit to bottle. White Heart Cherry Wine.—Take 71b. of white heart cherries and 71b. of white currants, together with 4oz. of angelica, previously sliced and boiled in three pints of water, and add to this 31b. of honey, and lflb. to 21b. of apples grated without peeling. Put the cherries into the tub, and bruise them with a wooden pestle, breaking about a quarter of the stones in the process; add to these the angelica and85 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. its liquor, 'with the honey and the grated apples, and pour on it all four gallons of water, previously boiled and allowed to get cold. Let it all stand lightly covered with a clean cloth for ten days, till a thick scum forms on the top; when it ceases fermenting, draw it off by means of the tap at the bottom of the tub, without breaking the crust, and put it into a cask with 71b. of well-refined loaf sugar, and let it stand till the second or cask fermentation is over, and then add to it 2oz. of best leaf gelatine, and bung up closely, and let it stand for three months. The second fermentation will take ten days or so ; if you are in a hurry and cannot spare so long a time ferment this wine in the first place with 2oz. of Ger- man yeast, mixed with a little tepid water and sugar, when it will work out in about twenty-four hours, but letting it ferment itself is best. Use a cask well rinsed out with brandy or spirit. The above recipes are given as given to me, though I have been most careful to choose recipes from experienced sources, so that, though I have not personally tested every one, I know they have been thoroughly proved. I may once more repeat the warning as to perfect cleanliness in every- thing connected with wine-making, for the least carelessness may ruin a whole brewing. Especially must the perfect cleanliness of the tubs and pans be insisted on. Wood is porous, and imbibes flavours very quickly, therefore, if not thoroughly rinsed and cleansed at once after use, the fluid left in it may taint it irremediably, no sub- sequent scouring, however severe, being sufficient to86 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. remove the taint. Where such an accident has oc- curred, the only thing to do is to place a saucer with burning sulphur into it, making the cask as airtight as you can, and thus thoroughly fumigate it; it must then be filled up with boiling water, strongly impregnated with salt and soda. But granted a little trouble in the rinsing and washing out, directly after use, this troublesome process can be perfectly avoided. A few recipes for home made herb beers may be given, though they no longer enjoy the popularity of “ auld lang syne.” Horns Breived Beer.—Common barley, rather more than a quart; a wine-bottleful ot' distiller’s barm (this will keep) ; powdered ginger, loz.; treacle, 1^ to 21b.; dried hops, loz. Boil the barley in a large pot (as it swells considerably) for three hours; boil the hops separately, for about one hour, and let it all stand till milk warm. Melt the treacle in a little hot water, then mix in the ginger, and finally stir together all the ingredients carefully, adding the barm (about a tumblerful) at the last; then stir it altogether, adding cold water as required, to weaken and cool it; it must not be more than milk warm. The barm will rise, and can be skimmed off and used again. Do not bottle this beer till it has done work- ing, which it should have done in twelve hours. This beer, made in the afternoon, is fit for bottling the next day, and is very effervescent. First and last you would use for this a good pailful of water. Remember not to put the barm in while the mixture is hot, the latter should be just as warm as tea for drinking; if put in while too hot the barm will sourLIQUEURS, WINES, &c. 87 the beer. This beer can be made without the barley, and is very nice, but not as strong. Keep the barm tightly corked. (This recipe was given me by the daughter of a Highland farmer, whose mother always made it.) Mead.—To every gallon of water add 41b. of honey, and boil it for an hour, then pour it into a tub, and when cool add a toast spread with yeast; cover with a blanket, and leave it for three or four days, and if by then it has fermented well, draw it off, and put it into a cask, adding a lemon sliced for every gallon, and about one and half pints of brandy for every ten gallons. The rinds of some Seville oranges, peeled very thin, and tied to a string, should be hung in the cask for the time it is left unbunged (i. e. till the liquid is perfectly still), and then removed when it is bunged up. The cask, which must be perfectly sweet and clean, should be rinsed out with some of the brandy afterwards put to the wine. Cowslip.—Boil together 151b. of honey, and seven and a half gallons of water till one gallon has wasted, then lift it off the fire ; pour half a gal- lon of this liquid, boiling hot, on to nine quartered lemons, putting the rest of the liquor into a tub on to three full pecks of cowslip pips, and let the lemons and the flowers steep separately for twelve hours. Then pour the lemons and their liquor in with the cowslips, syrup, &c., adding a handful of sweetbriar ; when lukewarm, put in four tablespoonfuls of yeast, stir it well together, cover with a blanket, and leave it to work for four or five days, then draw off, into a cask, and bung down tightly when it has done88 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. hissing. Bottle in six months’ time. Be very par- ticular as to your corks. It gives more flavour if the lemons are first thinly peeled, clear of all pith, and this peel laid with the quartered pulp. Nettle Beer.—Boil rather more than a peck of young nettle tops and 41b. of malt in two gallons of water, then add 2oz. of hops, 4oz. of sarsaparilla, l|lb. of sugar, and foz. of ginger; strain when nearly cold, and add a little yeast. Bottle whilst still fermenting. Ginger Beer.—lib. sugar, loz. ginger (bruised), and half a lemon to each gallon of water. Slice the lemon on to the sugar and ginger, and pour the water, boiling, over it all. When this is cool add enough yeast to work it (about a tablespoonful to every two gallons), and let it stand for twelve hours, then bottle. Bit for use on the second day, and is very effervescent. If fresh fruit is not attainable, use a tablespoonful of citric acid, and a. teaspoonful of essence of lemon instead of the fresh lemon. Dandelion Beer.—Boil three quarts of fresh dan- delions in a gallon of water, strain, and add 21b. of sugar, or a pound of molasses. When milk warm, add a good tablespoonful of yeast. Let it stand overnight, then draw off very carefully, add a table- spoonful of wintergreen, and bottle. This is an old country wife’s recipe, but dandelion beer is seldom seen nowadays, being usually replaced by the follow- ing, which is still very popular in the country. Put into a crock three quarts of freshly gathered dande- lion blossoms, and pour over them a gallon of boiling water; let this stand all night uncovered. Next day89 LIQUEURS, WINES, &c. strain off the liquor, and boil it with 31b. of sugar for half an hour, then add to it the rinds of two sweet oranges and two lemons, very thinly pared, quite free from all white pith, and previously well bruised, and when milk warm add a toast spread with yeast. Let it stand seven to ten days before putting it into a cask, then bottle in three months, adding a lump or two of sugar to each bottle. In the country this wine is often not put into a cask at all, but simply drunk from the crock, which is kept covered with a cloth or a board to keep out the dust. Country wives consider it a splendid tonic, or as they phrase it, “ excellent for clearing the blood.” Lastly, it may be mentioned that foreign house- wives make all sorts of essences and tinctures by the simple process of infusing the desired aromatic in strong rectified spirit or even brandy, till the latter is strongly flavoured, keeping such tinctures very closely stoppered, as these flavours are usually very volatile. For instance, infuse the very thinly pared rind of some lemons in good brandy, keeping it closely stoppered, and shaking it daily. Essence of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, vanilla, nutmeg, &c., can all be prepared in this way. Essence of ginger can be made by infusing loz. of bruised ginger in half a pint of strong spirit, with the thinly pared rind of half a lemon. These essences need no further treat- ment, if to be only used in the kitchen, but, if carefully filtered and mixed with a proportion of sugar syrup to taste, they will produce some very fair home-made liqueurs, which will, at all events, possess the merit of unconventionality.CHAPTER VII. PICKLES AND PRESERVES. Pickles were formerly almost inevitably home-made, and in each household there was some little private method of preserving some out-of-the-way article, the secret of which the housewife guarded almost as carefully as she would her life. Give a bottle of her pickle ? Why certainly, if the friendship warranted it; but give the recipe, even to her nearest, never. However, since those days very few of us take the trouble to manufacture such addenda, though in truth few things more repay the small amount of labour involved. Pickles are like all other preserves; the best material alone should be used, the vegetables chosen should be sound, ripe, but not over ripe, and freshly gathered on a dry, and if possible, warm day. The vinegar should be above suspicion. For ordinary pickles the best brown malt vinegar answers admir- ably, but its quality must be first-rate: for more delicate preparations the very best French, or white wine vinegar should alone be used. Copper pans or metal spoons must be carefully avoided, unglazed stoneware is far and away the safest for anything connected with vinegar, and clean if not new, woodenPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 91 spoons should alone be used. Glass bottles (Rviand’s make are most useful for these) or jars are the best for storing, but of course where pickles in large quan- tities are made, stone jars may be used; only re- member in this case, to be particular in the covering if to be stored for some time, place a piece of bladder over the mouth of the bottle, force the cork in over this, and then tie down carefully with more moist- ened bladder. Another way is to put a piece of vegetable parchment into the neck, force in the cork as before, and then dip the mouth and neck of the bottle into boiling wax, which can be either bought ready made, or else mav be made thus at home : melt lib. of common red sealing wax, with lib. of black resin, and ^lb. of beeswax, melting it all over a very gentle fire, and stirring it during the process with a tallow candle to prevent its burning. Or the recipe for bottling-wax, previously given, will answer. Any way never think covering a jar with brown paper, however many the folds, will keep a jar airtight, for it will not, paper in itself not being airproof. Old- fashioned housewives, who always kept a store of pickles, &c., and prided themselves on their keeping powers,used to cork the jars and bottles but loosely for the firs'u two days, and then fill them up with scalded vinegar to the very neck, and lastly fasten them down closely; for the pickles absorb a great deal of the vinegar first poured into them, yet, unless they are perfectly covered with the liquid they will not keep. It must be borne in mind that all fermented liquors lose by boiling, so the vinegar should never (unless the contrary be expressly stated in the recipe) be92 PICKLES AND PRESERVES more than scalded, or boiled up sharply, with the spices, &c., used to flavour it. A very useful flavoui- ing vinegar for most pickles may he made by boiling up together a gallon of good malt vinegar, about lOoz. of salt, 2oz. to 3oz. of bruised ginger, |oz. of mace, 2oz. to 3oz. of shallots, a teaspoonful of cayenne, foz. of mustard seed, and 1 oz, of turmeric ; let this simmer together after the boil up, for fifteen to twenty min- utes, and when cold put it into a stone jar; into which you can throw, as they ripen, any vegetables that come handy, such as broken up cauliflower, French beans, tiuy cucumbers or gherkins, onions, radishes, &c., &c., using perfectly fresh vegetables, carefully wiped free from grit, or dirt; being very particular to keep the jar closely covered all the time, recovering it tightly each time you add anything to it. This pickle, which will be in condition in eight or nine months, makes a very nice household piccallili, with the least amount of trouble. As a matter of fact almost every household has its own views on the flavouring of pickle vinegar, but care must be taken to keep it delicate, or it will overpower the flavour of the vegetables. Artichoke Bottoms, to pickle.—Boil the artichokes until you can remove all the leaves, and clear the bottoms thoroughly from the choke, &c. Lay each as done in salt and water, and leave them in this for an hour ; then lift them out on to a clean cloth and leave them till dry, when you pack them in wide mouthed bottles, with a little mace and sliced nutmeg between them and then fill up with pure white wine vinegar pre- viously scalded. If preferred, the vinegar may be just93 PICKLES A1STD PRESERVES. boiled up with tbe nutmeg1 and mace, and then when cold, strained on to the artichoke bottoms. Asparagus, to pickle.—Well clean and scrape the heads, removing the tough part of the white; lay the part to be preserved in cold spring water for two hours ; meanwhile boil some fresh spring or filtered water in a large pan with a handful of salt, and when this is boiling put in the asparagus a few pieces at a time, loose, and just scald them, lifting them out as soon as they are done with a skimmer, and lay them on a clean cloth, Have ready a boiling pickle, pre- pared as below, and as soon as the asparagus is cold lay it into jars, and pour on the spiced vinegar ; let it all stand, covered with a three or four times folded linen cloth, for a week, then pour off the vinegar, boil it up again sharply, and again pour this on the asparagus. Again let it stand a week, and repeat this boiling up a second time, then cover down closely with cork and bladder, or seal it well. For the vinegar: boil up two gallons of best white wiue vinegar, with 1 oz. baysalt, j oz. each of mace and white peppercorns and two nutmegs. Use when boiling. Barberries, to pickle.—Choose the barberries when not ove~-ripe, cleanse them from all leaves, dead stalks, &c., and lay them in a jar with a (very) few cloves, pou/a salt and water pickle over them, and when you see a scum rising on them pour off the first pickle, and replace with fresh brine. They need no vinegar, their own acidity being sufficient. (Old- fashioned housewives prepared red currants in the same way.)PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 94 Beetroot, to pickle.—These vegetables require great care in washing them, for if the least bit of sldn or fibre is injured in the operation, all the colouring matter will exude at once. When thus carefully washed, boil for an hour (putting them on in boiling water—or they may be baked), and let them stand till perfectly cold. Now scrape and slice them, lay them in a stone jar, and either pour over them vinegar in which you have previously boiled a few peppercorns, a clove or two, and a red chilli or two; or tie up the spice in a piece of muslin, lay it with the beetroot, and pour scalded vinegar over it all. Cover down closely and see that the beetroot is thoroughly covered with vinegar. It is well to be sparing with spice in this pickle as the flavour of the beetroot is very easily overpowered. Moreover it is one that is better made fresh and fresh. Carrots treated in the same way make an excellent pickle, and some people even mix beet- root and carrot in making this pickle. (Cold carrots left over from dinner, may be utilised in this way with advantage, if thoroughly rinsed free from all gravy or fat, before adding the vinegar. But natur- ally the flavour is better if the carrots are specially prepared for the pickle, treating them precisely in the same way as the beetroot. Cabbage, Sauerkraut.—This is a favourite Germau pickle and is not at all difficult to prepare, granted a little care. Choose large firm cabbages with good white hearts, and leave these in a cool comer of the •cellar for a day or two before using them. Mean- while line a crock, or a small keg, with cabbage or vine-leaves, then shred the cabbages down very finely —v -PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 95 into the keg, sprinkling fine salt pretty evenly "be- tween the layers. (Be careful not to use too much salt, or the kraut will not ferment properly, A good handful will be enough for a fairly large crock.) Press the shredded cabbage down very tight, and close, as you put it in, and when the crock is as full as it can possibly hold, sprinkle a little more salt over the top, then cover it all over, first with cabbage or vine- leaves, then with a doubly folded clean cloth. Now put a wooden cover over the top, weighting this down well with a heavy weight, and set the crock in a warm cellar till it starts fermenting, i.e. when little white bubbles form on the surface of the mass. Now transfer the keg to a cooler place and leave it till the brine dries into a firm crust over the top, when it is ready for use. Once a week the leaves at the top must be renewed, and the linen cloth well washed in cold water, and put back. This is the common way of making this, but little alterations are made in various families, as for instance the addition of carraway seeds, juniper berries, &c. Use a wooden spoon for lifting it out, and see that there is always just sufficient brine to cover the cabbage, and be particular about keeping it covered with the linen cloth and the weighted board. Cabbage, Yellow Pickle.—Choose fine white and tender cabbages, and cut them in four or eight, accor- ding to their size. Soak these in strong brine tor three days, then scald in clear water till you can pierce them with a straw. Now lift them out and lay them to dry, on large dishes, for twenty-four hours; after which, put them into strong vinegar with sufficient96 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. turmeric to make it all yellow. Leave it in this for ten days, then take it out, and drain on a reversed sieve for some hours. Now prepare the following: 3oz. turmeric, 2oz. ginger, 4oz. grated horseradish, 2oz. white mustard seed, 2oz. whole white pepper, 4oz. garlic, |oz. celery seed, foz. mace, and mix these all well together. Then pack the cabbages in a crock, strewing each layer thickly with the mixed spice, alternating each layer, till the crock is full; then pour over it all two gallons of vinegar, pre- viously boiled up with 51b. of sugar, and poured hot over the pickle. These quantities are for four good cabbages. (A Creole recipe.) Cabbage, Red.—Strip off the outer leaves, quarter the cabbage, remove the hard stalk, and then shred the rest pretty finely. Spread this shredded cabbage out on a large flat dish, strew over it a good handful of fine salt, cover it all with another dish, and let it stand for twenty-four hours, when it must be drained in a colander, and finally dried in a clean cloth. Place this shred cabbage into stone jars, and pom- over it good vinegar, previously boiled up with an ounce of whole black peppers to each quart of vine- gar. Some people use only unscalded vinegar, but this is not so successful. Tie this down with bladder, and mind the cabbage is thoroughly well covered with the vinegar. This pickle is soon ready, but loses both colour and crispness if kept over long. Choose the red cabbage of a rich purply colour, when the leaves have been just touched with the frost. Cauliflower, to pickle.—This is simply trimmed and broken up into even pieces, strewed with salt, and97 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. left for twelve to twenty-four hours between two plates; then well drained, packed in jars, and covered with cold vinegar, previously just boiled up with spice. Many persons, however, think this pickle more wholesome if the cauliflower is first quickly parboiled in salt and water, then drained, packed, and finished oft' as before. Celery, to pickle.—Cut some heads of celery into equal and convenient lengths, wash them thoroughly, then throw them into brine, strong enough to bear an egg, and leave them in this for eight or ten days. Now rinse the celery thoroughly, and leave it to drain on a sieve or a colander till dry. Then pack the celery in stone jars, and pour over it enough spiced and scalded vinegar to cover it all thoroughly, let it stand till cold, filling up with more vinegar, if necessary, and then cork down closely. Celeriac, cardoons, salsify, seakale, &c., can all be pickled in this way. Cucumbers, to pickle.—Choose the smallest and most perfect cucumbers, as free from spots as pos- sible, lay them in strong salt and water till they turn quite yellow (which they will do in about nine or ten days), stirring them twice a day to keep them from softening. When they are perfectly yellow, pour off the water from them, and cover them with plenty of vine leaves. Now boil up the water poured from the cucumbers, and when it boils pour it over t hem, and leave it all in a warm corner near the fire. When the water is once more almost cold, again boil it up, and again pour it on the cucumbers; repeat this H98 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. process till you see the cucumbers turn a good green (which they should do in four or five scaldings), being careful to keep them covered with vine leaves, and then a clean cloth; and last of all a soup plate turned over the basin in which they are, to keep in the steam, which helps to colour them quicker. When thoroughly greened, di’ain them on a sieve, and then pour the following pickle, hot, upon them, and tie down with bladders. For the pickle; to each quart of white wine vinegar, allow joz. of mace, or five or six cloves, foz. sliced ginger, foz. black pepper, and half a handful of salt; boil this altogether for five minutes, then use hot. Cucumber Mangoes.—Choose large, green, and not too ripe cucumbers, and take a strip out all down one side ; through this remove all the seeds with a teaspoon, and pound some of these seeds with scraped horseradish, finely shred garlic, mustard seed, and white pepper; fill the cucumbers up as full as possible with this mixture, then replace the strip cut out, and tie it into place with thread. Place them in a basin, and pour enough boiling hot vinegar over them to cover them ; next day pour off the vinegar, boil it up again, and again pour it over the cucum- bers ; repeat this twice more, at twenty-four hours’ interval, and the last time boil up the vinegar with joz. each of mace and cloves, loz. each pepper and mustard seed, half a stick of horseradish, and half a clove of garlic to each quart of vinegar. Pack the cucumbers in jars, pour the boiling vinegar over them, tie down closely and store. (This pickle can also be made in precisely the same way with melonsPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 99 of the kind used for pickling, peaches, lemons, vege- table marrows, &c.) Cucumbers with Mustard.—Slice some not too ripe cucumbers, or cut them into inch lengths, and quarter these ; slice also some good large onions very thinly, and arrange these in layers on a dish, with salt sprinkled upon each layer, turn another plate over them, and let them drain for six hours or so ; have ready some good spiced vinegar as for other pickles, mix with this a dessertspoonful of good mustard for each quart of vinegar (adding this when mixed with a little warm vinegar, when the spices and vinegar have been boiled up together), pour it, all hot, over the cucumber, &c., and leave till next day, when you bottle and cork it all down. This pickle, though excellent, does not keep over well, so should be eaten soon. Eggs, to 'pickle.—Boil the eggs well for half an hour, then let them cool, and shell them. Now place them in jars, and pour over them some scalding hot vinegar, previously boiled up with allspice, whole peppers, cloves, ginger, and a few cloves of garlic. Let it all stand till cold, then cork down very closely. They must be well covered with the vinegar. Excel- lent with cold meat. Elder Buds, to pickle.—Gather the elder buds when of the size of hop buds, and leave them in strong brine for nine days, stirring them daily. Then drain off the water, put the buds in a pai well covered with vine leaves, and pour on to them the water drained from them. Set them over a slow fire till they are quite green, then strain them M 9100 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. oft' into jars and pour on to them good malt vinegar boiled for two or three minutes with a little mace, some shallots, and a little sliced ginger. Cover well with this vinegar, then tie down closely and store. Elder Flowers, to pickle.—Gather the elder flowers before they are actually open, pack them into jars, and pour over them enough scalded white wine vinegar to cover them, then cork down. This is an old-fashioned but most excellent accompani- ment to cold meat, especially boiled mutton. Elder Shoots, to pickle (also called English Bamboo).—Cut the young shoots of the elder about the middle of May, choosing the middle shoots, which are the tenderest; peel off the outside peel, and lay the shoots in strong brine for one night. Dry them very carefully, and separately, in a clean cloth, then put them into a stone jar and cover with the following spiced vinegar when boiling hot; cork closely, and set it by the fire for two hours to keep hot, turning the jar pretty often. If the shoots are not green when cold, strain off the vinegar, re-heat it, and again pour it on the elder, and let it stand by the fire as before. Elder shoots are a great addition to the so-called “India pickle,” and can be prepared in May by simply pouring boiling vinegar and mustard seed over them, and keeping them well covered till you want them for the pickle. For the vinegar for this pickle, boil up a quart of good vinegar with loz. each of white pepper and sliced ginger, with a little mace and pimento to taste. French Beans, to pickle.—Choose young eveu-sizedPICKLES AND PRESERVES 101 beans, wipe them in a clean cloth and lay them in strong brine for three days, stirring them daily; now put them into a pan covered with vine leaves, and till up with weak salt and water, and let them cook over a gentle fire till they turn green; then drain them, put them into jars, and pour boiling spiced vinegar over them. Mind it should cover them by quite two inches. Gherkins are excellent preserved in this way. Fruit, to pickle.—When the fruit trees require thinning in the spring, collect all the green fruit thus thinned out, such as apricots, apples (green and young), nectarines, peaches, plums, «fec., and throw them as gathered into a pan of cold vinegar; then collect every sortof vegetable, such as gherkins, cucum- bers (cut in jin. rings, and the seeds removed), nas- turtiums, young carrots, turnip radishes, cauliflower broken into sprays, little onions, French beans, &c., and put these also into the cold vinegar. Let these all stand till September or October, when to a gallon of vinegar you. add 4oz. each of black and white pepper, ginger, and mixed spice (mace, allspice, cloves), |lb. yellow mustard seed, one nutmeg grated, two sticks of horseradish, 2oz. of salt, 5oz. of chillies, and 4oz. mustard flour, mixed to a smooth paste with a little of the vinegar. Boil this all up together, put it into jars and cover down when cold. Mind there is enough liquid to cover it all well. This is often called Piccalilli. Grapes, to pickle.—Choose the grapes when full grown but still unripe, and cut them into little bunches; now put them into a stone jar with vinePICKLES AND PRESERVES. 102 leaves under and above each layer, and cover it all with some good brine; lay vine leaves over the top, tie them down with a clean cloth, and then cover with a plate. Let them stand in this for twenty-four hours, then lift them out, lay them on a clean cloth, cover with another, and leave them till dry. Meanwhile, boil together two quarts of vinegar, one quart of spring water, and lib. of coarse sugar, and skim off all the scum as it rises ; then let it stand till cold. Now dry the first jar carefully, put in some fresh vine leaves, and lay in the grapes again with more vine leaves between each layer; then pour the clear part of the pickle over the grapes, being careful that they are well covered by the vine- gar, and place a flannel-covered board on the top to keep the fruit well under the liquid; then cork and cover down closely. Take them out with a wooden spoon only, and be very careful to cover down the jar each time, or they will certainly be spoiled. For the brine, dry and crush a pound of bay salt, and dissolve it in as much cold spring water as you want to cover the grapes, adding enough best salt to make a brine that will bear an egg. Let this all boil well together, carefully removing all the black scum, and when it has boiled for fifteen minutes, put it aside to cool and settle, pouring the clear part, when almost cold, over the grapes. Lemons, to pickle,—Wipe eight good lemons care- fully, then gash them equally four times, from stalk to crown, but without dividing them ; now stuff them with as much salt as you can make them hold, and lay them in a deep dish, in a sunny window, or a103 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. warm place for a week or ten days, keeping them often turned and basted with their own liquor; then rub them well with loz. or 2oz. of pale turmeric, and put them with their juice into a stone jar, with two or three cloves of garlic, peeled, and twelve small onions, each stuck with two cloves. Now in two quarts of white wine vinegar boil fib. of slightly bruised ginger, fib. mustard seed and 2oz. whole black peppers, and pour this all, straight off the fire, on to the lemons, cover the jar with a plate, let it stand till next day, then add to it six or seven capsicums or chillies, and cover. Limes make a delicious pickle in the same way, but should only lie in the salt four or five days, and all the salt (of which 2oz. will be required for every six limes), left unmelted must be put into the jar with them, before pouring in the vinegar, &c. Melons, to pickle.—Take a couple of melons before they are quite ripe, pare off the rinds, remove all the seeds, and slice the flesh about half an inch thick. Steep these in good white wine vinegar for a week or ten days, then cover them with cold fresh vinegar and simmer them very gently in this, till perfectly tender. Now drain them thoroughly on a reversed sieve, and when cold, stick each slice with a couple of cloves, put them into glass jars and cover with cold syrup made by boiling together a pint of water and lOoz. of sugar for twenty minutes. In a week, lift them out of this syrup, drain them a little, again put them into glass jars and pour over them sufficient white wine vinegar (previously scalded and allowed to get cool) to coverPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 104 them perfectly, and cover down. This is a German recipe, and is an excellent way of using up the last melons of the season, which will not ripen properly. The melons should be about three days or so of being ripe. Mushrooms, to piclcle. {Button.)—Take the tiny button mushrooms, and after well cleaning them with a flannel, lay them in cold white wine vinegar, and bring this very slowly to the boil, now drain them well, till cold, then put them in glasses and cover with white vinegar, previously scalded and left till cold. For this, choose the white meadow mush- rooms, freshly gathered ; cut the stems off close, and wipe the mushrooms well with a damp flannel dipped in fine salt, throwing them as done into lightly salted water ; when all are done, dry them carefully between dry clean cloths. (Unless this is attended to the quality of the pickle will be weakened.) Now to a quart of vinegar put If teaspoonfuls of salt, ^oz. of white peppercorns, ^oz. of ginger, a saltspoonful of cayenne, and a good blade of mace. Let this all boil up well, then lay in the mushrooms, and let them cook from five to ten minutes according to size (it is well to have them as even in size as possible) ; now turn them into warm wide-mouthed bottles, cover with the vinegar, and divide the spice amongst them. When cold, cork down and seal. Store in a cool and dry place but beware of frost. Nasturtiums, to 'piglcle.—Make a pickle by dissolving lfoz. of fine salt in a quart of white vinegar, and throw the nasturtium seeds into this as they becomePICKLES AND PRESERVES. 105 fit. They should be quite young. Mind they are well covered with the vinegar. Nasturtium flowers make a nice pickle in this way : Put the full blown flowers into a quart bottle with a minced shallot or two, and fil} up the bottle with cold scalded vinegar, let it stand for two months then rub it all through a sieve, bottle off, seasoning with cayenne and salt to taste. Onions, to pickle.—Choose the smallest onions possible for this, and peel them. For a quart of onions take a quart of best white wine vinegar and dissolve in it a good dessertspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of whole white peppers, bring this to the boil, remove all the scum as it rises, then throw in the onions and let them cook till thev become clear, —which they do in about three or four minutes— then turn them into jars, and pour the pickle over them. Of course, if liked, other spice can be added to the vinegar at discretion, but that is entirely a matter of taste. Shallots are pickled in precisely the same way. Oysters, to pickle.—Scald some fine large oysters in their own liquor, with a small piece of butter to every hundred oysters. When they are plump and white, lift them out with a skimmer and spread them on a thickly folded cloth, When they are firm and cold, heat together half their liquor and the same quantity of good vinegar, now put the oysters into wide-mouthed glass jars, strewing each layer of oysters with a spoonful of ground mace, and a dozen each of cloves, whole peppers, and allspice, and pour the liquor over it all. Add a spoonful ofPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 106 sweet salad oil to exclude the air, and cover down close. These, if well closed and stored in a cool place, will keep good for months. Peaches or Apricots, to pickle.—Quarter unripe peaches, and lay them in a basin for a night, well sprinkled with salt, then dry them for two or three days in the sun. Meanwhile, prepare a sauce thus : Put a full 2|oz. each of crushed (but not powdered) ginger, and sugar, with a spoonful or two of turmeric to the quart of vinegar, and let it all boil up; when boiling, lay in the dried peaches, bring the vinegar, &c., again to the boil, then simmer for an hour, after which cork up closely in a stone jar. Samphire, to pickle.—Throw some good green samphire into a pan with two or three handfuls of salt according to quantity, and cover with cold spring water. Let it stand for twenty-four hours, put it into a clean pan, add another handful of salt, and cover it with good vinegar. Cover down the pan, let it cook till the samphire is green and crisp, then lift it off that moment and turn it into a jar with its vinegar, and cover down. When quite cold, cover with cork and bladder and put it away, The secret of this pickle is to lift it off the fire the moment it has greened and crisped, for if left long enough to soften, it is spoiled. Samphire can be kept all the year round, if sJ re 1 in strong salt and water brine, draining it out as wanted, and leaving it to steep for a few minutes in best vinegar before using it. Strawberries, to pickle.—Place m a jar alternate layers of stalked strawberries and crushed cloves107 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. and cinnamon, till the jar is full; pour to them a syrup made with 31b. of sugar boiled in half a pint of cider or white vinegar for five minutes, and let this all stand for twenty-four hours. Now pour off the liquid from the berries, bring it to the boil, pour it back over them and again let it all stand for twenty-four hours ; after which boil the berries aud the syrup together for twenty minutes, slowly, then pot and cover them. This is for six quarts of straw- berries. Tomatoes to pickle {American).—Chop finely to- gether a peck of green tomatoes and eight large green peppers. Soak these for twenty-four hours in weak brine, then drain off the latter, and add a head of finely chopped cabbage to the tomatoes, scald it all in boiling vinegar for twenty minutes, then drain off the vinegar; put the tomatoes, &c., into a stone jar, add to it three pints of grated horseradish and spice to taste, and fill up with strong cold vinegar ; or if preferred, put in the horseradish and fill up with scalded spiced vinegar. Walnuts, to pickle.—The nuts should be gathered when they can be pierced with a pin easily, for if the shell can be felt at all they are too ripe for pickling. Make enough brine to cover them thoroughly, using 6oz. of salt to the quart of water, carefully removing all the scum that will rise as the salt dis- solves, before laying in the nuts, and stir them night and morning. Change the brine every three days, then on the ninth day strain off the walnuts and leave them on dishes exposed to the air till they turn quite black, which they should do in twelve hours atPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 108 the outside. Boil together half a gallon of vinegar for every hundred walnuts, with a tea-spoonful of salt, 2oz. black pepper, 3oz. bruised ginger, a drachm of mace, and from £ to -|oz. of cloves stuck in two or three small onions, and 4oz. mustard seed. Let this all boil together for five minutes, have the wal- nuts packed in a stone jar, and pour the vinegar, &c. over them straight off the fire. When this is all quite cold, cover down closely and keep in a dry place. Be careful to have the walnuts always covered with the vinegar, adding fresh, when necessary, but always boiling this up, before adding it to the pickle.4 CHAPTER VIII. PICKLES (Continued). One form of pickle seldom if ever seen, liere, though a great favourite abroad, is pickled fruit, and, strange though the idea may sound, the result is undeniably toothsome. The vinegar used must, needless to say, be of the finest quality, white wine vinegar being decidedly the best; the bottles or jars used (which are nicest if Ryland’s), must be thoroughly cleaned, and scalded out, and then kept in a dry, warm place- out- of the dust for three or four days to air and dry perfectly. Make a pickle with one and a half pints of best vinegar, three quarters of a pint of light white wine, some broken up cinnamon, and a dozen or so of cloves, and when this is all boiling lay in the fruit (this quantity of pickle is for 3 fib. to 41b. of fruit), and let it cook in the vinegar, &c., for five minutes; then lift them out with a skimmer, and place them in the jars, after draining them lightly ; now boil up the pickle again, and pour over the fruit whilst still warm, close tightly, and store in a cool dry place. Or try the following: Cherries in vinegar.—Pick over the fruit, after stalking it, and pack it in glass jars; now boil somePICKLES AND PRESERVES. 110 best vinegar with a good pinch of sugar, a few cloves, and some peppercorns (say seven or eight of each to each pint of vinegar used), let it cool, then pour it whilst still warm, on to the packed fruit, and cover down. Small plums can also be done in this way. Apricots in vinegar.—Boil three quarters of a pint of best vinegar with 21b. of sugar; after the latter is thoroughly dissolved, skim it well, and lay in the apricots, peeled, halved and stoned; let them get thoroughly hot, then drain them from the pickle and pack them in jars, strewing them as you pack them, with |oz. coarsely pounded and mixed cinnamon and cloves between the layers of fruit; then boil up the vinegar drained from them with a few Jamaica pep- pers, and pour it, when just hot, on to the fruit, close down the jars, and put them aside. After two or three days, pour off the liquor, let it just boil up again, then return it to the jars, and close these down very tightly. Melons in picTcle.—Choose melons that are not too ripe, peel them, cut them in slices, scoop out all the pithy part, and lay them in preserving jars. Boil one and a half pints of vinegar with l|lb. of sugar, some broken cinnamon, white peppercorns, lemon peel, twelve cloves, and a little ginger. Pour this over the melons when nearly cold. After twenty-four hours put the liquor back into the pan with a little more sugar, boil it till it thickens like a syrup, and pour it over the melons. This must be repeated twice, at the interval of a week, adding more vinegar if necessary. Tie down with parchment soaked in brandy, &c.Ill PICKLES. Pears in pickle.—For 91b. of fruit allow olb. of sugar, one quart of vinegar, joz. of cinnamon, and tlie rind of one lemon. This fruit pickles remarkably well. When just ripe, peel the pears very smoothly, halve them, remove the core, and wash quickly in fresh cold water. Meantime boil the vinegar, sugar, Ac., skim it, and put in as many pears as will lie side by side without overcrowding. Now boil these quickly, over a brisk fire, till soft. If left in too long they will turn brown and unsightly. Lift them out with a skimmer, and put them carefully in jars, round side uppermost, never touching them with a fork. Proceed thus till all are done, then pour the syrup over them. After a few days, boil up the liquor again as stated above. Large Plums (white or red), in pickle.—Wipe 61b. of picked fruit very gently with a clean cloth, scald them with very hot water, lifting them out quickly, and re- moving the peel at once. If they are to be stoned, the plums must be less ripe and should be stoned before scalding. Boil l|lb. of sugar in a pint of vinegar, with ioz. of cinnamon, the thinly peeled rind of one lemon, and a few cloves; when it is boiling scald the fruit, a few at a time, in this hot pickle (which must not be allowed to boil during the process) for two minutes, boiling up the pickle between each set of fruit. When all the fruit has been scalded, again boil up the pickle, then draw the pan to the side, off the fire, and put in all the fruit; let it soak till thoroughly moistened, then at once fill up the jars with the fruit and juice, tying them down whilst still warm. Be careful to boil up the liquor again every112 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. time it begins to look watery. If liked, the plums can be preserved in this way without peeling. This is necessarily not an exhaustive list, but the above directions will allow of any one so minded pre- paring all kinds of fruit in this way. Whilst on the subject of sweet-sour preserves (as these fruit pickles are sometimes called), a few of the fruit compotes served abroad with game may be given. Lemon Compute.—Peel one lemon and one orange, removing every particle of white pith, then mince up the yellow part of the peel and all the pulp into dice, put these in the pan, with just enough water to cover them, and bring it all just to (but not beyond) boil- ing point; then add a wineglassful of red wine, a tablespoonful of brown sauce, a little salt, cayenne pepper, and the juice of one more lemon and orange, and use. Pear Compote.—Peel some pears, dropping them into cold water slightly acidulated with lemon juice, as you do so ; then place them into hot water with sugar to taste, a piece of stick cinnamon, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon ; bring it all to the boil, very slowly, being careful to lift out the pears before they get soft enough to mash, boil up the syrup again, skim it well, and then pour it gently over and round the pears with a spoon, after adding to it a o'ood wineglassful of claret. o CD , Cranberry Compote.—Lay some nice, unbruised cranberries into fresh water, then turn them out on a hair sieve, and allow all the liquid to drain off them. Now put the cranberries into a preserving pan with caster sugar, allowing lib. of sugar to every 21b, ofPICKLES. 113 fruit, and cook slowly, till the berries are soft but not masby; tlien lift tliem out, and boil up the syrup sharply till it is thick, when you mix the cranberries into it and pour the two into jars, covering each with a brandied paper, and covering down tightly when the fruit is cold. Sweet Tomato Compote.—Slice down some nice tomatoes, till you have 71b. of these slices, and let them stand for twenty-four hours, well sprinkled with salt. Then soak them for the same length of time in fresh water; after which drain it all well. Now for these 71b. take 4|lb. of sugar, loz. cinnamon, loz. cloves, and enough vinegar to cover them. Boil this all together and pour it over the tomatoes; let it stand twenty-four hours, then bring it all just to the boil, pot it, tie it down, and store in a cool dark place. Catsups.—Anchovy Catsup.—Chop up (without boning) twenty-four anchovies, mince ten shallots, and scrape finely a handful of horseradish; put these into a pan with |oz. mace, a quart of white wine, a pint of red wine, a pint of anchovy liquor, twelve cloves, and twelve peppercorns, and boil it all slowly together till reduced to a quart; then strain, bottle, and keep in a dry place. (An old-fashioned, but very good addition to many sauces.) Camp Catsup.—Put into a pan a quart of strong old beer, a pint of white wine, 2oz. of anchovies, l|oz. of peeled shallots, ioz. each of mace and nut- meg, and one and a half races of ginger crushed. Boil this all over a gentle fire till a third part is evaporated, then bottle next day without straining. Cockle Catsup.—Scald a quart of cockles, shell i114 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. and mince them; then boil them up in their own liquor, and a teacupful of cider, or white wine vinegar; skim very carefully, then let them simmer for three minutes longer, when you strain them through a hair sieve, and return the liquor thus ob- tained to the pan with a teaspoonful each of cayenne, salt, and mace, and a gill of sherry. Boil this altogether for fifteen minutes, then let it cool in a basin, and bottle off when quite cold, corking and sealing it closely. Cucumber Catsup.—Choose large ripe cucumbers, peel, then remove the seeds and grate the flesh; for every pint of this puree take half a pint of cider or white wine vinegar, quarter-teaspoonful of cayenne, one teaspoonful of salt, and two full tablespoonfuls of finely grated horseradish; drain the cucumber in a colander, then mix it with the other ingredients, bottle, and seal down. (This is an American recipe.) Slice together into an earthenware pan twelve good cucumbers and four large onions; add a good handful of salt, and let them stand until the liquor begins to rim from them; then break them up small and let them stand for another twenty-four hours. Now strain it off, and to each quart put the same quantity of white (but not sweet) wine, fib. of anchovies and a stick of horseradish; boil this all together for half an hour, then strain it again, and to each quart add |oz. of white pepper, and the same of mace, and nutmeg, mixed together and pounded, and boil it well once more. Let it get perfectly cold, then bottle it as it stands, adding a smallPICKLES. 115 piece of ginger to each, bottle as yon close it down. (This is an old Eastern Counties recipe.) Elderberry Catsup.—Strip ripe elderberries from their stalks and put them in a stone jar with as much good vinegar as will cover them thoroughly, then place them in the oven when the bread is baked to extract the juice, and strain off whilst hot. Now boil this liquor with sufficient cloves, mace, pepper- corns and shallot to flavour it nicely, and then add to it 6 to 8oz. best anchovies, for every quart of liquor, and boil only just enough to dissolve these. When cold, bottle in small bottles, and be very particular in fastening down. This by the way applies to all catsups. Mushroom Catsup.—Break a peck of mushrooms (previously wiped with a flannel) into a large earthen- ware crock; strew -fib. of salt over them, and leave them all night in a cool oven, next day strain oft and measure the liquor, and boil it for a quarter of an hour. To each quart of this liquor add loz. pepper, ^oz, allspice, -|oz. ginger and two blades of mace, and let this all boil quickly together for half an hour. When cold, bottle, cork down tightly and seal. The big flap mushrooms do for this. Oyster Catsup —Open forty-eight good oysters, saving the liquor, wash and bone 6oz. to 8oz. of anchovies and add them to the oysters, with half a sliced lemon. Pour to this one and a half pints white wine, just bring it to the boil, and simmer it very gently for twenty minutes ; then strain through a muslin. Now add a teaspoonful each, of cloves, mace and nutmeg to this, boil it for ten minutes i 2116 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. more, and pour it boiling, on to loz. sliced slialot When cold, bottle it as it stands. Tomato Catsup.—Slit a peck of tomatoes, and boil them in an earthenware or enamelled pan, till the juice is extracted and the pulp dissolved. Then strain first through a colander, then through a hair sieve. Stir to this a tablespoonf ul each of black pepper, pounded cloves, and celery seed (tie these up in mus- lin,) and 3oz. of mustard, together with loz. each of salt and powdered mace. Boil this for five hours, stirring it now and again, at the first, but conti- nuously for the last hour. Pour it into a stoneware jar and leave it in the cellar on a stone floor for twelve or fourteen hours; then take out the celery seed, bottle, seal, and store in a cool dark place. Walnut Catsup.—Crush in a mortar one hundred green walnuts till thoroughly broken up, then place them in a jar with 6oz. of cut up shalots, a head of garlic, two quarts of vinegar and |-lb. of salt. Let all this stand for a fortnight, stirring it twice daily. Now strain off the liquor and put it in a pan with 2oz. of anchovies, 2oz. of whole peppers, ^oz. cloves and £oz. mace, and boil it, skimming it well. When no more scum rises, strain it off and when cold, pour it off free from sediment, and cork it down closely in small bottles, and store in a dry place. Chutnies.—These are now-a-days bought ready made, yet'where there is a garden handy many very nice kinds can be home made. Home-made Indian Chutney.—Peel and slice clown either apples, apricots, or quinces, according to what you have, and boil them till perfectly soft in vinegar;117 PICKLES. then mix into them, mashing it all with a wooden spoon or pestle, stoned raisins, minced garlic, chillies, and bruised ginger, salt and sugar, and add a little more vinegar. The proportions are fib. of sliced apple, 2oz. or 3oz. of dried chillies, 5oz. or 6oz. of sugar, and the same each of raisins (weighed after they are stoned) and salt, a full lfoz. each of ginger and garlic, to each quart of vinegar, using three- quarters of the vinegar to boil the apples, and adding the remaining quarter at the last. (This chutney improves by keeping). Home-made Indian Chutney.—Take of apples, tomatoes, stoned raisins, and sugar, each fib.; bruised ginger, loz.; onions sliced, 2oz.; the juice of two lemons; a handful of salt; a tiny clove of garlic; a few mushrooms; some damsons (pre- viously cooked to a mash and then sieved); and two quarts of vinegar. Mix this all well together, and stand the jar containing the mix- ture by the side of the fire for a month (mind it does not boil). By this time the juice shonld have quite separated from the thick part, and the latter can be put up in jars, the liquid part being strained off and bottled for flavouring sauces, &c. (N.B.—The liquid part of any pickle should be saved in this way, as it is an excellent addition to many sauces). Tomato Chutney.—Bake some perfectly ripe to- matoes till tender, then rub them through a coarse sieve. To each pound of this pulp allow one pint of vinegar (more if liked), foz. each of garlic, salt, and black pepper, loz. sliced shallot, and cayenne to taste. Boil these altogether till the ingredients are118 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. all tender, then add the juice of three lemons, and again sieve it, adding to it as you do so, a spoonful of anchovy sauce (the size of the spoon is a matter of taste). Now boil it all again till it is of the thick- ness of thick cream, let it stand till cold, then bottle and cover down closely. Unless this sauce is properly cooked it will not keep; seven or eight hours’ cook- ing over a gentle fire is none too much. Tomato Chutney (Green).—Choose the tomatoes when full-grown, but before they have coloured, and slice them rather thickly into a clean, coarse, hair sieve (sprinkling salt over each layer of slices), and let them all drain for twenty-four hours. Now place 51b. of these sliced tomatoes into an enamelled pre- serving pan and pour over them sufficient good vinegar to cover them entirely, then add 12oz. of loaf sugar, ^lb. of sliced onions (do not use the Spanish ones, they are too watery), four or five chillies halved or quartered (failing chillies use an equivalent amount of whole black peppercorns), five or six cloves, and about half an inch of bruised cinnamon stick loosely tied up in a piece of muslin; now stew it all gently in the uncovered pan, till the tomatoes are perfectly tender (this takes about twenty to thirty minutes, generally), and then put the mixture into jars holding about 21b., and cover down closely at once while hot. It is better to put up this chutney in small jars, even when a large quantity is made, as it does not keep over well once it is opened. If a very hot pickle is bleed a little cayenne may be added to the mixture. (This is a Canadian recipe.) The above are sufficient to give an idea of the119 PICKLES. method of making clmtnies for keeping, and as said before, these are condiments most people buy, as those made in India naturally are most generally popular. The Hindoo word from which our chutney is derived, really means only some hot condiment or sauce, by no means necessarily a store one, and in the East, fresh chutnies are in great request, to eat with cold meat, curries, &c. As these are pretty easy to make, and a somewhat uncommon relish, a few recipes may be advantageously given here. In some parts these fresh chutnies are known as “ Sambals.” Quince Sarnbal.—Peel and quarter some rather unripe quinces, and for two or three of these, take one onion sliced, a green chilli and some salt. Pound this altogether in a marble mortar, and serve. Cucumber Sarnbal —Peel and shred a cucumber, and mix it with finely minced chives, or thinly sliced onion, minced green chilli, and a little parsley. This can all be salted and pounded as above, or it may be left unpounded mixed with a little oil, vinegar, salt, and black pepper. The proportions of these sambals are so much a matter of taste that it is not easy to state quantities definitely. As a general average perhaps one may reckon two to three tablespoonfuls of the vegetable that gives its name to the sarnbal, for a teaspoonful of each of the other condiments, the oil and vinegar when added, being kept to very modest proportions. Tomatoes, green mint, &c., can all be used for this, only remembering to remove all seeds, or stalks. Shrimp Chutney.—Shell some freshly cooked shrimps, mince them quickly with a sharp knife, then120 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. pound them in a marble mortar with (to the pint of shrimps), one or two green chillies, some finely minced spring onions or chives, and if liked a very small dust of powdered ginger, working it to a smooth paste with one or two spoonfuls of oil, and enough lemon or lime juice to acidulate it pleasantly. A little cayenne may be added if liked. Prawns, and even lobster can be used in this way. As a matter of fact almost every vegetable, and not a few fruits, can be used in the preparation of these sambals ; for instance, green peaches, apricots, plums, bananas; tomatoes, cooked or raw ; egg plant, cooked; fish, fresh, smoked, or salted (either torn to tiny shreds or pounded), can all be used with excel- lent effect. Abroad these ingredients are almost always crashed on the stone slab with the stone roller that is found in every Eastern kitchen, but at home they can either be pounded in a marble mortar, or even only shredded very finely, and then well mixed with the rest of the addenda. Lastly may be given a few recipes which it is not altogether easy to class. Indian Sharp Sauce.—Pound well together -|lb, each of half ripe apricots (these should be really mangoes) or peaches, stoned raisins, salt, sugar, and ginger, rib. each of red chillies and onions, and 2oz. of garlic; when these are all well crushed, pour on to them three quarts of best vinegar, and a pint of fresh lime or lemon juice ; close up the jar well, and leave it for a month in the sun (or failing this in some warm corner of the kitchen, but the sun is best), shaking and stirring it up well every day. At thePICKLES. 121 end of tlie month strain off the liquid part and bottle it, and put the thick residuum, which is a particularly excellent chutney, into stone jars and cork down well. This liquid sauce is sometimes in India known as Quy Hi sauce. India Vickie.—For this pickle, all the vegetables used (and the greater the variety the better), should be steeped for five days in brine strong enough to float an egg, then they should be transferred to a fresh make of brine, and again steeped for five days, after which the vegetables must be strained from the brine, and left for a night on a clean cloth to dry. They are then put into stone jars with spiced vine- gar, prepared as below. Apples, green apricots, the thinnings of the vines, green gooseberries, unripe plums (stoned), cauliflower, broken up small, celery, cucumber (both cut into inch lengths), elder shoots, French beans, &c., can all be used, and can be put in as they come into season, only remember they must be pickled and dried as described above, in every case, before putting them into the vinegar. For the vinegar, boil 1|- gallons of the best malt vinegar, with 4oz. whole mustard seed (bruised), loz. peppercorns, and one teaspoonful of cayenne, for half an hour; now lay into it 2oz. long pepper, 4oz. whole ginger (split), a handful of dry salt, and 4oz. garlic. Piccallilli.—For this, boil vinegar, with (for even- quart) loz. bruised ginger, |oz. each of white pepper- corns, allspice, turmeric, and curry powder, and, lastly, loz. shallots; when these have all boiled together for five minutes stir into it thoroughly loz. of best Durham mustard previously rubbed to a122 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. smooth paste with a little warm vinegar, but do not let it boil again after the mustard is added. Let this all cool somewhat, then pour it over the pre- pared vegetables, and when this is all quite cold pack it into wide-mouthed bottles, dividing the spice between them all, and then fastening them down. Care must be taken to have the contents of the jar well covered with vinegar; the jars should be watched for a little time to see if more vinegar is needed, for if the vegetables absorb the vinegar, more must be added after scalding and letting it cool. It is best to put this pickle up in smallish bottles, as it keeps better so. To prepare the vegetables, take about equal quantities, as far as possible, of white cabbage, cauliflower, capsicums, small cucumbers or gherkins, French beans, onions small and large, green tomatoes, and nasturtium seeds. Shred, or break, up the larger vegetables, and boil them all for one minute in brine strong enough to float an egg, then lift them out and spread them on large dishes, and let them diy in the sun; they are then added to the hot vinegar. If, however, all the vegetables are not added at once (and this is the most usual way of making this sauce), remember to scald every vegetable first in the brine, then dry as described above, and lastly scald them for a minute in boihng vinegar; then let them get cool before adding them to the rest. If this pickling is not attended to they will not keep themselves, and will spoil the rest of the pickle. Home-made Worcester Sauce.—Chop, pound, and sieve three anchovies with three shallots, then mix them with three teaspoonfuls of cayenne, and half a123 PICKLES. teaspoonful of powdered cloves; stir this into two tablespoonfnls of either mushroom, tomato, or walnut catsup, then mix this in a stone jar with a quart of good vinegar, and bring it all just to the boil, in the bain-marie; now strain it, return it to the jar, cover down closely and let it stand in a cool place for forty- eight hours, after which bottle off and cork close.CHAPTER IX. FLAVOURED WINES AND VINEGARS. We are nowadays so accustomed, to trust to the grocer and Italian warehouse for our flavourings, essences, and herb vinegars, that we have almost lost the habit of making any of these dainties at home. This is a great pity, as there are many varieties, that, owing to the small demand for them, are seldom if ever to be found in shops, which yet impart much delicacy and flavour to the salads and other preparations, now coming more and more into use. These dainties, moreover, cost little, either in time, money, or labour, so are well worth trying. In old-fashioned houses, dainty little cruets filled with variously flavoured wines are still occasionally to be seen, and certainly a drop or two of chili, shallot, or cayenne wine will impart a flavour to soups, &c., which nothing else will. For these wines proceed thus : Horseradish Wine.—Infuse -|oz. of freshly grated horseradish in half a pint of sherry for two or three weeks (according to how strong you want it), then strain off the liquid and bottle for use. Chilli Wine, shallot and garlic wine are all made in absolutely theFLAVOURED WINES AND VINEGARS. 125 same way, and are generally much appreciated by men. Celery Seed, again, steeped in wine makes an excellent flavouring; indeed, any special flavour liked may be prepared in this way with the utmost success, for anything you use for vinegar is usable with wine, the wine only extracting the flavour more fully. "While on the subject of these flavourings, a few odds and ends may be mentioned, which, though having neither vinegar nor wine in their composition, are invaluable for flavouring. Essence of Capsicums.—Infuse -§oz. of absolutely pure cayenne (be particular on this point as the goodness of the essence depends entirely on it), in half a pint of either brandy or rectified spirits of wine, for two or three weeks, keeping the bottle tightly corked. This essence must be added with considerable caution for it is tremendously strong. “ Quatre-epices.”—This flavouring mixture is much used abroad, and is made by pounding to a powder loz. each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and black pepper, and |oz. of cloves ; sift this powder through muslin and keep in an air-tight canister. French Mustard—A very good version of this is obtained by rubbing down the mustard flour with vinegar, a few drops of oil, and a very little salt. This variety is particularly good if any of the flavoured vinegars given below are used, horseradish or anchovy vinegar being especially excellent. A delicious mustard can also be made by bringing half a pint of white wine, a small onion, stuck with four or five cloves, and a little salt, to the boil, then simmering it for fifteen minutes, after which youPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 126 strain it and mix it by degrees to a smooth paste with 4oz. of mustard flour. If put into a jar, and •covered down like jam, this will keep for a long time. A very good keeping mustard is made by sifting together 2oz. mustard flour and a good saltspoonful ■of salt ; then work it gradually to a paste with half .a gill of horseradish vinegar, and a tablespoonful of chilli vinegar. When mixed quite smooth, bottle in widemouthed bottles and cork down closely. Ravigotte Mustard.—Put half a pint of brown mustard seed in a basin with one or two tablespoon- fuls each of parsley, tarragon, chervil, and burnet, and a good saltspoonful each of cloves, celery seed, mace and shallot, and pour to these enough white wine vinegar to cover them; let it all steep for twenty- four hours, then pound well and i-ub it all through a fine sieve, moistening it all with a little more vinegar to get it to the right consistency, then pack in little jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and cork down closely. Flavoured Vinegars. — Anchovy Vinegar. — Steep a dozen good Gorgona anchovies (after washing them lightly) in a quart of pure white wine vinegar, with a shallot or two, or half a clove of garlic, for a full fortnight, then strain and bottle off. Basil and Burnet Vinegars.—Make these precisely like tarragon vinegar. The latter is most useful in winter, as it gives a cucumber flavour to whatever it is mixed with. Young syringa shoots made into a vinegar in the same way have precisely the same -effect. Capsicum or Chilli Vinegar.—Infuse from loz. to 2oz. of capsicums or chillies (according to the strengthFLAVOURED WINES AND VINEGARS. 127 you wish, your vinegar to be), in a quart of first-rate vinegar for a week or a fortnight, then strain and bottle off, corking and sealing it closely. It will be fit for use in three months. The capsicums left over are excellent for pickling onions. Celery Vinegar.—Wash and cleanse well some celery heads, and for -|lb. of such roots and stalks allow a pint of vinegar and half a teaspoonful of salt; place the celery in an unglazed earthenware jar, boil up the vinegar and salt, and, when slightly cooled, pour it on to the celery, and let it all stand covered and corked up for three weeks ; then strain it off and bottle in small bottles. This vinegar can also be made with foz to loz. of celery seed to the quart of vinegar. Infuse for ten days or a fortnight, and finish off as before. Cucumber Vinegar.—Pare, seed, and slice six large ripe cucumbers, and steep them for ten days in a quart of vinegar, and finish off as before. The vine- gar should be boiled up and poured on the cucumber when cooling. Curry Vinegar.—Steep 3oz. of good curry powder in a quart of best vinegar for a fortnight, then strain or filter, and bottle off. \ Cyder Vinegar.—Dilute 61b. of sour leaven, made with yeast and rye flour, with enough warm water to liquify it; then pour it through the bunghole into a large cask of cyder, stirring it well together to mix it all; let it ferment for a week, and then draw off at once, when you will have a strong fine cyder vine- gar, most useful for pickling, &c. Flower Vinegars. — Carnation Vinegar.—PutPICKLES AKD PRESERVES. 128 from loz. to lfoz. of the sun-dried flowers into a quart of best white wine vinegar, cork the bottle down well, and leave it in the sun for a fortnight; then strain and bottle off. Elder- flower and Music Rose Vinegars are made in precisely the same way, but for Orange Flower Vinegar the blossoms must be gathered on a dry day, be perfectly unbruised, and be dropped gently, fresh, into the vinegar. Lavender and Rosemary Vinegars are made by picking -|lb. of the lavender flowers, drying them quickly, in the sun if possible, then infusing them, closely covered, in the sun for a week, after which they are drawn off, filtered through blotting paper, and bottled off and corked securely. (By the bye, it is said that it is to lavender vinegar, more used in old days in cookery than in the present, that aspic jelly owes its name, having been originally flavoured with it, from the old name “ espic ” for lavender.) Coivsli-p Vinegar— Put a quart of cowslip flowers (only the pips as for cowslip wine) into a bottle with three or four sprays of sweetbriar tips (only the young shoots should be used) to each pint of vinegar, and pour on to this three pints of best white wine vinegar. Cover down closely and infuse for fully ten days; then strain and bottle. Very good with- out the sweetbriar if you cannot get that. This is an American recipe, being much used in compound- ing many American drinks. Primrose Vinegar is made in the same way, but without the sweetbriar. Nasturtium Vinegar.—Put as many nasturtium flowers as you can in a wide-mouthed quart bottle, with a little ginger, mace, long pepper, and a chilli orFLAVOURED WINES AND VINEGARS. 129 two (or -joz. cayenne), and a few cloves. Fill up with best malt vinegar, and keep the bottle shaken occa- sionally for two or three days, then cork down tightly and seal np. This should certainly be kept for two or three months, but the longer it is kept the better. "When wanted for use, strain off through muslin, after well shaking up the bottle. Always put back into the bottle the thick leafy part that escapes in the straining. The same flowers will bear the addition of more vinegar twice more. (I have found it better to use smaller bottles, as then each will fill up the cruet comfortably.) jRose Vinegar.—Put an ounce of rose leaves in a pint of best white wine vinegar, with a root or so of Florence lily, and let it all infuse till the liquid is strongly flavoured, then strain off and bottle. (For salads, and also abroad used for toilette purposes.) Violet Vinegar (German).—Pick wood violets (as they have the strongest perfume) in the spring, remove the stems, and put the flowers into bottles, shaking them down to make them lie closely, and then pour to them as much white wine vinegar as they will take, then cork and set the bottles in the sun for three or four weeks. Now strain off the vinegar, and bottle and cork it down closely. Fruit Vinegars. — Black Currant Vinegar.— Put in a preserving pan a quart of good ripe black currants, with a pint of the young currant leaves, and stir them over the fire with a new wooden spoon till the currants begin to boil, then turn it all into the jelly bag, and strain it all through, squeezing out every drop of juice you FPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 130 can; return this juice to the pan with l|lb. pure cane sugar to each quart of juice, stir it well till the sugar melts, then skim it very carefully, putting the shim- mings on a sieve, and return the juice that strains through to the preserving pan ; let it stand till cold, then for each quart of this syrup allow one and a half pints of best white wine vinegar, adding, if it is to keep, from half to a pint of plain spirit to each gal- lon of the vinegar. Red currant vinegar is made in precisely the same way. Gooseberry Vinegar. — Choose the hairy goose- berries, either red or green, when full ripe. Break down the fruit with a wooden pestle, and allow lib. of crushed cane loaf sugar to each 21b. of fruit. Let it all stand for two hours, then turn it all into the preserving pan and scald till the juice runs free. Now run it through a jelly bag wrung out of warm vinegar, and to this juice allow a gill of plain spirit or brandy to each quart of juice, and then mix with it all an equal quantity of best white wine vinegar. Mulberry Vinegar.—Put into an unglazed earthen- ware pan 61b. of ripe, sound mulberries, and pour over them enough good vinegar to cover them; let them soak, covered, for twenty-four hours, then crush them with a clean wooden spoon, and again cover them with a cloth for another twenty-four hours; again bruise them, mixing them well, and add in more vinegar till a gallon has been used altogether. When this has stood for a week (mind it is well stir- red up every day), strain off the liquid, and to each pint add lib. of cane loaf sugar, and boil it all upFLAVOURED WINES AND VINEGARS. 131 well for five minutes, skimming it very carefully. Then bottle off, like raspberry vinegar. Raspberry Vinegar.—Put three gallons of ripe and well coloured raspberries into a large unglazed earth- enware jar, and pour over them a gallon of white wine vinegar. Let it all stand for three or four days, lightly covered with paper to keep out the dust, then strain it off into a clean basin through a jelly bag or a fine and well scalded horsehair sieve. The juice should run clear and bright. Now measure it, and for each pint allow lib. of cane loaf sugar, and stir it over the fire with a clean wooden, or a silver spoon, till the sugar is quite dissolved, and skim it very carefully. Let it boil for about half an hour, then stir it till cool, when you add from half to a pint of spirit for each quart of liquid, then bottle off and cork down closely, Mind not to use anything iron or tin in making this as its beauty depends upon its perfect colour. Another simpler way (but one that does not keep so well) is to fill a large 71b. or 81b. jam jar with raspberries, and pour over them suffi- cient vinegar to cover them well and fill the jar, and let it all stand for nine days, stirring it daily; then strain it off, add 12oz. of cane loaf sugar to each pint of juice, and boil together till no more scum will rise, and then bottle off carefully. Strawberry Vinegar.—Gather the fruit when at the point of perfection, and use at once. Remove the stalks, weigh the fruit and put it into wide-moutlied glass bottles, pouring on to it a quart of best white wine vinegar to every pound of fruit. Cover the jars closely and let it stand for three days, then drain off k 2132 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. the liquid and pour it upon some more fresh fruit Again let this stand for three days, and again strain off, adding fresh fruit yet a third time. After this has stood for three days drain off the juice through a jelly bag wrung out of warm vinegar, measure it all, and stir it till the broken-up loaf sugar (added in the proportion of lib. to each pint of liquid) is almost dissolved, then put it all on the fire (which must be very clear for this), and let it boil gently for five minutes. Now pour it off, let it stand for ten or twelve minutes, then skim thoroughly and bottle off. (A simpler form is made by following the second re- oipe for raspberry vinegar). Garlic Vinegar.—Bruise loz. of garlic lightly with twelve cloves and a roughly broken-up nutmeg, and pour on to it a gallon of white wine vinegar, or at all events good colourless vinegar. Let it all steep for a month, then pour off and bottle for use. You can pom- fresh vinegar on to the garlic, and let it steep for three months when you will get a good but coarser vinegar, though it is very useful in cookery; while the more delicate kind made with the white vinegar can be kept for salads, &c. Honey Vinegar.—Dissolve 41b. of really good pure honey in a gallon of water, then pour it all into a small cask, leaving the bunghole open though covered with a piece of muslin to keep out dust, &c. Set it in a warm place, or in the hottest sunshine, for five or six weeks, by which time it should be ready for use. Horseradish Vinegar.—Put into an unglazed jar 3oz. freshly grated horseradish, loz. minced shallot,FLAVOURED WINES AND VINEGARS. 133 two teaspoonfuls of black pepper and one of cay- enne ; pour on to this a quart of boiling vinegar, and let it all infuse closely covered for three or four days, then strain off, bottle and seal up. Another way is to put into a wide-necked dry bottle, 3oz. salt, 2\oz. freshly grated horseradish, ^oz. bruised ginger, a clove of garlic, and either four chillies or a good pinch of cayenne; mix this all well with half a pint of cold boiled vinegar, then pour on to it two and a half pints of vinegar previously brought to the boil, then allowed to cool a little before pouring it into the bottle. Cover this all down tightly, let it stand for thirty-six hours in a warm place, then strain and bottle off into little bottles, with a chilli in each. Seal down closely when cold. (N.B.—Most delicious mustards for eating with cold meat can be made by mixing the mustard flour with either of these horseradish, or indeed any of the flavoured, vinegars). Mint Vinegar.—Make this precisely like tarragon vinegar. Bavigotte Vinegar. — In a pint of French wine vinegar, infuse a couple of tablespoonfuls each of minced garden-cress and tarragon, one of minced chives, a small clove of garlic (if liked) or a minced shallot, and three chillies. Let it stand till fully flavoured, then strain and bottle off as before. Shallot Vinegar.—Peel and mince 4oz. of fully, but not over, ripe shallots (or it will give a bitter flavour to the vinegar), put them into a bottle and cover with a quart of best vinegar, and infuse for ten days, shaking the bottle well daily; then strain and filter134 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. off the vinegar, bottle in small bottles, and store tightly corked and sealed. Spiced Vinegar.—(This can be nsed at once for pickling any vegetables, or if bottled off cold like the other flavouring vinegars it makes an excellent addi- tion to salads, &c.) Bruise well 2oz. black whole peppers, loz. each of ginger and salt and -|oz. of allspice, then mix this in a bottle with a quart of good vinegar (whether malt or wine vinegar does not matter, but the quality must be first rate), adding if you like loz. of chopped shallot, an atom of garlic, and some chillies, or a little cayenne (this of course makes it pretty hot). Tie the bottle over with blad- der wetted with vinegar, and leave it in a warm place for a few days; then stand the bottle in the bain- marie, keep the water round it at simmering point for one or two hours, and bottle off in the usual way. If to be used for pickling purposes, boil up the vinegar with all the condiments mentioned, to which, if liked, a bay leaf and a good bouquet may be added ; then let it cool a little, and pour it on to the things to be pickled. Tarragon Vinegar.—Pick young tarragon shoots, and dry them in the sun for a day or two, then infuse them in good vinegar for a fortnight, after which you strain and bottle off the vinegar as before. You can let the tarragon infuse longer if you like, but that is a matter of taste; or you can pour a second supply of vinegar over the tarragon, allowing it to infuse for a month or so, when it will yield a very good vinegar for cooking purposes, though not as delicate as the first, which answers for salads, &c.FLAVOURED WINES AND VINEGARS. 135 You simply put tlie tarragon points into the bottle not too tightly, and fill up with the vinegar. White Wine Vinegar [French).—Have ready a small barrel of good, colourless vinegar (cyder vine- gar is much used for this), and take three or four quarts (according to the size of the barrel) from it, replacing these by an equal amount of sound, clear, light French wine; then close up the bung- hole, and leave the barrel in a warm, even tempera- ture for a month, when the same quantity should be again drawn off and replaced with wine, and again left to stand. Treated thus, a stock cask will last for a long time, good and clear, and without the least deposit. Formerly vinegar was always made from a “ mother,” as it was called, i. e. a sort of fungus, sometimes also called the “ vinegar plant ”—these can be still bought in the country, and also, I believe, in Co vent Garden Market. For this melt |lb. of coarse brown sugar and -|lb. of treacle in about two gallons of water, and let it all boil up well, then stir it well, put it into a cask or large jar, and when tepid place the vinegar plant in it. Let it stand for two or three months at least, in a warm place, then draw off the liquor, boil up, strain, and bottle for use. This vine- gar after bottling should be always kept in a cool place. Remember the “mother/' being in reality nothing but a fungus, requires moisture, heat, and darkness ; if left dry it dies. A young plant forms on the old one, and if scaled off carefully can be used to make more vinegar. This vinegar, however, is rather tasteless. One thing must be remembered,136 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. and that is when making wine vinegar, sound wine must be used; corked, or acid wine will result in failure, for the stronger and better the wine (in reason), the better will be the vinegar. Unfortu- nately, it is very difficult to disabuse the minds of would-be thrifty housekeepers of the notion that wine, when so sour and spoilt as to be manifestly unfit for drinking, is therefore just right for use in cookery, or for vinegar. A very good rough and ready method of dis- charging the colour from good vinegar for pickle- making, is to stir together animal charcoal (obtainable at the chemist’s), and the very best vinegar, let it stand for a few days, then strain off the clear liquid. The proportions are Hoz. of the charcoal to each quart of vinegar. Lastly, there is an old-fashioned recipe for dried vinegar balls, in which our grandmothers had great faith. Gather blackberries when just half ripe, dry them, and then pound to a powder; mix this to a stiff paste with a little very strong white vinegar. Make into balls the size of nuts, dry well, and keep in air-tight boxes. When wanted, dissolve one of these balls in either light white wine, or a little stale beer, and use. I have never tried this, but found it in an old and usually most trustworthy book. The two following are not strictly culinary, but being “ vinegars ” are given here : Toilet Vinegar.—Add 2oz. dried rose-leaves and 40 drops attar of roses to 5oz. rectified spirits of wine and one pint dilute acetic acid. Stand in a closed vessel for fourteen days, shaking or stirring itFLAVOURED WINES AND VINEGARS. 137 occasionally. Or, steep -|oz. benzoin for eight days in 2oz. rectified spirits of wine, then strain and put the tincture aside. Meanwhile, pour half a pint of white vinegar on the benzoin, let it steep for six days, then strain and add to the tincture, bottling and corking it well. “ Thieves’ Vinegar.”—Put into a jar a handful each of rosemary, lavender, rue, sage, wormwood, and mint, and pour on to it a gallon of strong clear vinegar, cover close and leave for four days near the fire; then strain and add to the liquid an ounce of powdered camphor gum, bottle and keep it tightly corked. Excellent for sickroom use. This vinegar is said to derive its name from a legend that, through the great plague in Marseilles during the seventeenth century, robbers, protected by it, entered and robbed sickrooms with impunity. They are said to have bought their lives by giving up the secret of this vinegar, hitherto unknown. Spiced Vinegar.—Boil up well together three pints of good vinegar (brown malt or white wine, according to the use you intend making of it), with loz. each of cloves, long or whole peppers, allspice, and ginger, then let it cool, and use when cold. This is excellent for any kind of pickles, for which specially spiced vinegar is not given. Vinegar should always be just boiled up, either with or without spice, and then allowed to cool perfectly before it is added to any pickle. Some housekeepers use raw vinegar, but this never gives the same mellow flavour as is obtained by the above process.CHAPTER X. MEAT, &c., TO CURE. Dwellers in the country might easily add to their larder resources and the variety of their menus, if they were to try home curing more extensively than is mostly done in England, while of the economy of this plan it is hardly necessary to speak. In many places fresh pork is actually dear at 6d. a pound, yet a little time and trouble is all that is needed to turn this pork into the equivalent of bacon sold generally at 10d., or ham that it would be difficult to get for a penny or so more than this price for the same weight. Then again both beef and mutton lend themselves admirably to pickling and curing, whilst few things equal a properly home-cured ox tongue ; moreover, salmon, herring, mackerel, &c., can all be prepared at home in various ways. To start with pork, which is the most generally home-cured meat. A pig may be fattened at any time between the ages of nine months and two years, and the fattening process usually takes from three to six months. The time of curing must depend on circumstances—if the pig is home-killed, either by the local butcher or someone on the premises, theMEAT, &c., TO CURE. 139 meat should be cured at once; but if the meat is bought in the shape of pork it should be hung long enough to ensure its being tender, i. e. to give the time for the death stiffness (or rigor mortis) to pass off. If the pig is home-killed be sure and save all the blood while the animal is still warm, letting it run into a bowl, and stirring it all the time with a wooden spoon to prevent its coagulating, when it would be utterly useless. The great thing in pig- killing is to make the blood run freely, if not it disperses internally and spoils the meat. Having taken away all the blood, scald the carcase well to facilitate the removal of the bristles, which is done by scraping the body with a blunt knife. Imme- diately this is accomplished hang the carcase up by the hind legs and slit it down the front, to allow of the removal of the intestines, &c. The gall must be carefully removed, and every vestige of blood any- where about the flesh wiped off most punctiliously. It does not do to wash the flesh of pork too much, as it would only soften, and so spoil, the meat. Set the parts removed aside in clean cold water to soak, as these must be thoroughly well washed and rinsed before use. When the carcase is perfectly cool it may be cut up. As regards this cutting up a good deal depends on the use to which the meat is to be put. The parts generally used fresh are the loin, either whole or in the shape of chops, the best end of the neck, used for cutlets; and the leg, often served fresh and roasted. Otherwise, the hind legs are reserved for curing hams, the front ones being cured as “hands” or “corner cushions” of140 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. pork. Tlie head is usually divided up into the two cheeks, the rest of the head, with the tongue, being utilized for brawn. Of course the cutting up of the pig naturally depends on how you are going to use it. If it is going to be cured entirely, you would cut off the hind and fore legs as shown in the diagram, the sides thus left being known as the “flitches,” see Fig. 1. Where, however, the pig has a double duty to pay, i.e., to furnish both salted and fresh joints, Fig. 2 gives the method of dividing the carcase. In many cases half the pig is devoted to the pickling tub, the other half being reserved for fresh use. Besides these joints there is also the fat to be considered. That which lies round the kidneys is the most delicate, and is used for various purposes in cookery. In England it is known to country folk as the “flead,” and in France as “panne.” Most de- licious lard is prepared from this fat, if not wanted for the kitchen; in France it is generally kept for the preparation of various delicate kinds of force- A. The Chine. B. The Head. C. The Leg. D. The Flitch. E. The Shoulder. F. The Pettitoes.MEAT, &c., TO CURE. 141 meat and for some sorts of sausages; in England it Fig. 2. 1. Leg. 4. Head. 2. Loin. 5. Hand, or Hock. 3. Spare Eib or Foreloin. 6. Belly. is us°d fresh, in the preparation of some cakes known as “head cakes,” pastry, &c. These are made byPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 142 skinning the fleacl and then slicing it into the flour, using from ^lb. to fib. of flead to lib of flour ; the mixture is then made into a dough as for pastry, with salt and a little water, then beaten with a rolling-pin, rolled out, cut into round cakes and baked in a sharp oven. These cakes can be served plain (they rise beautifully, and are very flakey) or dusted with sugar and a few washed and dried currants. The rest of the fat is rendered down for lard, which is never so good as when home-made. Lard, to melt.—Strip off the skm from the inside fat of a fresh-killed pig, slice it down very thinly into a new or well scalded jar, set either in the bain- marie, or in a pan three parts full of boiling water, and let it all simmer till thoroughly dissolved ; now strain it into small stone jars, or a deep bowl, and leave it till cold, when you tie it over with some of the skin taken from the lard, or well washed and dried bladder. The last drainings of the fat should be kept separate as it will not be so good as the first. If flead is to be kept, rub it well with fine salt di- rectly it is taken from the pig, and leave it in this for two days, then drain well, and lay it in strong brine, changing this occasionally. When to be used lay this fat into cold fresh water for two or three hours, then wipe it perfectly diy, and it can be used as if fresh. The process of curing requires great care and at- tention; as said before, the best times are either when the pork is just killed, or when it has been hung long enough to become tender. This hanging must in great measure depend on the weather (itMEAT, Ac., TO CURE. 143 must be remembered that nothing can be cured satis- factorily in hot, or even warm weather; abroad, pork is a forbidden food after May, until winter returns); from three days to a week is the usual time in win- ter, while if it is absolutely necessary to care in warmer times, one to two days is the outside limit of what can be allowed, and then the meat must be hung in a cool, dark place. A point that cannot be too strongly impressed on those responsible for curing meat, is the absolute necessity of removing all blood, and any pipes or kernels left in the meat; these if left in, are pretty certain to cause trouble by spoiling the meat. The next thing to consider is the salting trough; unglazed stoneware is excellent for small tilings, such as tongues, &c., but is too heavy and unwieldy where large joints such as flitches, &c., are concerned. About as nice a thing as any is a wooden trough, which any local cooper would make. This should be about 2ft. deep, and rather wider at the bottom than at the top, say 16in. or 18in. at the top, and 20in. to 22in. at the bottom, inside measure in both cases. This trough should preferably stand on a frame of some kind, and have a hole at the bottom to facilitate the removal of the extra pickle, or the washing out of the trough. The necessity for the strictest cleanliness must be insisted on, and the trough should be thoroughly scrubbed and scoured after use, and even before use again, if by any chance it has been left out of use for some time. All pickling utensils should be thoroughly scrubbed and scalded out after use, be left to dry in the ai", and be stored in a very dry, well ventilatedPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 144 place. It will be found a great addition to the flarour if before use the trough is thoroughly scalded out with boiling water, in which you hare boiled up some bay leaves and juniper berries. It is a mistake, especially in these days when salt is so cheap, to use the same brine in succession for different things, but at the same time if the trough is suffi- ciently large, it is a good plan to salt two or three things together, as this ensures a good supply of pickle; and remember, once the articles are put into brine they should be kept well covered, It is for this reason that the peculiar shape of trough is advised, as this should be covered with a fitting lid, which, as the pickled meat shrinks, can be weighted and allowed to sink, so as to keep the meat well under the pickle. As a general rule it is best to rub the meat first with from one-third to half the quantity of salt, then leave it for a day or two, and then rub in the rest (this is for more or less dry curing) ; this ensures the salt being well worked into the meat, a point on which the keeping of the bacon greatly depends. It must be remembered that the salt should be especially carefully rubbed into any place that folds over, the shank ends and joints of the bone, &c. An excellent pickle for general use is made by boiling together 6oz. of salt, 4oz. of sugar, and |oz. of saltpetre to each quart of water, skimming it well, and then pouring it when cool on to the meat to be pickled; which should have been previously well rubbed with salt, and allowed to stand for twenty-four hours, when it must be well wiped to free it from any stale salt, before putting it into the145 MEAT, &c, TO CURE. pickle. Of course, the quantities may "be increased to any amount, only being careful to keep tlie pro- portions right. Bay salt, from being naturally dried by the action of the sun, is usually held to be sweeter for pickling than the chemically prepared ordinary salt. Always be careful not to overdo the saltpetre in any recipe, as though it colours, it also hardens the meat. Besides sugar, salt (common and bay), and salt- petre, there are other things that may be added to vary the flavour of the pickle used, such as juniper berries, bay leaves, herbs, spice, &c., which will, how- ever, be mentioned when giving particular recipes; but remember that when using any or all of these, unless otherwise directed, the best plan is to make a fairly strong infusion of the ingredients in a little boiling water, and then add this to the pickle when both are cool. To proceed, however, with general directions. As soon as the meat is cured it should be carefully wiped dry with a clean cloth, and then covered thickly with coarse bran or sawdust, which should have been previously dried for a little in the oven. The pieces can then be hung up in some cool, dry and shady place, being careful that each piece hangs free, touching nothing on any side. If to be smoked, they are either hung in the kitchen chimney over a wood, or if possible, a furze fire, a little saw- dust being added to this now and again. If a fairly steady fire is kept up, large pieces like flitches, &c., will take about a month, but they can hang longer, if liked. Hams to be smoked, are better if sewn up in coarse packing sheet. Where there is no chimney l146 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. convenient, a rough and ready plan is to make a wood fire on which you strew either juniper berries or juniper wood, hang the ham to be smoked to the inside of the bop of a hogshead and then turn the whole over the fire, keeping in the smoke till the ham is smoked. Where, however, the curing of147 MEAT, &c., TO CERE. bacon, ham, &c., is much practised, it is easy enough to provide oneself at a relatively small cost, with a most convenient little smoking apparatus of which we give an illustration. (Fig. 3.) This smoking- cupboard is one approved by M. Gouffe, and could easily be copied by any local workman. It can, of course, be made to any scale, but a very convenient size for the use of a small household is 4ft. 6in. high, and 3ft. deep, and wide; this box should be lined with sheet iron throughout, and be fitted with iron rods across, by which the articles to be smoked can be hung from hooks. The door should be carefully fitted, as it must close hermetically to ensure the keeping in of the smoke. The whole box should be raised about 20in. from the ground, on either wooden or iron legs; an iron pan or pot about 5in. deep, and pierced with holes, raised on a trivet, should be placed under the box to contain the fuel; the smoke from this is conveyed into the smoking cupboard by means of a small flue or pipe about 2~in. in diameter, fitt ed to the metal cover of the fuel pot as shown in the illustration. This flue is slipped through a hole in the bottom of the cupboard cut to fit it exactly, so as not to waste the smoke. Another similar flue is fit- ted to the top of the cupboard, to carry off the smoke into the open air, or into a chimney. The method of using this cupboard is as follows: put into the fire- pot a layer of charcoal embers (braise), and over this a layer of oak, elm, or other hard wood sawdust and wood shavings, to about one and a half inches in depth, and on this lay three or four bay leaves, a few sprays of thyme, and eighteen or twenty juniperPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 148 berries. Leave the meat in the cupboard for seven to eight days, carefully making up the fire, and re- newing the aromatics every two days. In preparing a fire for smoking, use shavings and logs of oak, beech, elm, &c., and when these are well alight cover them with a thick layer of tan or oak bark, and on this burn periodically dry herbs, berries, and brown sugar. Being so closely covered in, this fire-pot be- comes essentially a slow combustion stove, and main- tains a steady even fire. This sized cupboard will accommodate two hams or so comfortably. Where space is not a great consideration, as in the country, it is very convenient to give up some small room for the purpose of a drying chamber. Any airy place free from damp, and facing north, will answer for this, only remember to have all the windows fitted with very close wire gauze to keep out the flies. Of course this is not a sine qua non, but it is an im- mense convenience, as the pork can be hung here either before or after smoking as may be needed; moreover, such a room allows of making various kinds of excellent sausages seldom seen in England. Lastly, and before going on to individual recipes, it may be well to say a few words re sausage making. For these veiy little preparation is needed beyond well washed and dried bladders or skins, and a thoroughly efficient mincer in first-rate condition; for if not kept in this state the chopping blades will crush and pound the meat rather than finely mince it, in which case the sausages will be stodgy. Of sausages there are several kinds. 1. Those to be eaten fresh. 2. Those which are lightly smoked and149 MEAT, &c., TO CURE. usually cooked by boiling, after a short period of keeping. 3. Those smoked for a much longer time, and either boiled and eaten cold, or in some cases, after prolonged smoking, sliced very thinly and served without cooking, as hors d'oeuvre. Flitch, to Cure (Old English mode).—Remove all the fat from the inside of a good flitch, and lay it on a board or trestle to let all the blood run off. (A curing place should always be kept cool and shady like a dairy.) Rub it very thoroughly on both sides with good salt, bay salt for choice, and leave it for a day in this. Now mix together lib. of fresh bay salt, l^oz. saltpetre, 21b. of coarse sugar, and 3|lb. of common salt. Lay the flitch in the trough, skin downwards, and rub the flesh very thoroughly with the mixture just given, being careful to rub it thoroughly well in, all over. Leave it in this for a fortnight, basting it every day with its own pickle, carefully examining it daily to see that the thick and folded parts are all right, and being careful at once to remove any sign of mould or clamminess. After this smoke it well, and then hang it in a dry, cool place. Oversmoking, or the hanging of the bacon when ready in either a hot kitchen or a sunny keeping- place is pretty safe to bring on rust. Rub each flitch well with common salt, leave it for twenty-four hours, then rub it off. Have ready a mixture made by pounding very finely and sifting, lflb. brown sugar, 2Hb. common salt, fib. bay salt, 4oz. saltpetre, and one cake sal prunella. Spread this over the flitches, and turn and rub them daily for a month. Hang up to dry. Or, make aPICKLES AND PRESERVES. 150 mixture with l^lb. each of brown sugar and bay salt, 41b. common salt, and 4oz. saltpetre. Use as in the preceding recipe, then hang for a day or two, and smoke for a week. Flitch, to Cure (Yorkshire fashion).—Let the pork hang for twelve hours after cutting up ; then for each stone of pork allow lib. salt, loz. saltpetre, and foz. coarse sugar. Rub the meat well first with the sugar and saltpetre, carefully removing any blood, &c., and then rub it well with the salt, which should have previously been slightly warmed before the fire, using only a part to begin with, and adding more as the first dissolves, or is absorbed. The meat should be laid on a clean stone or brick floor, and will take about a fortnight to three weeks to cure, according to the weather, which must be neither a severe frost nor damp when the curing is begun. When cured, hang the flitches in a cool, dry room, in a good draught, and leave them there till they are dry and the salt has crystallised on the surface. The bacon can then be stored in a chest on clean straw, a thick layer of this being placed above and below the flitch. For this method of curing allow lib. of salt, loz. of saltpetre, and -|oz. of coarse sugar to each stone of pork. These recipes give a good idea of the method of preparing bacon flitches, but these are not done conveniently with small curing facilities; and for private families the curing of hams, tongues, &c., are the most practical. Before, however, proceeding to these, the method of pickling pork, and also the pre- paration of French or larding bacon, may be given. Porlc, to PicTcle.—Bone the pork, and cut it into151 MEAT, &c., TO CURE. neat pieces, to fit tlie size of the pickling pan (the belly or thin flank is best for this purpose). Rub the pork well with salt, put.a layer of salt in the trough, then lay in the pork, sprinkling each piece well with salt as you lay it in, till you have alternate layers of pork and salt; let them lie in this well packed in with salt all round for two or three days, and then sprinkle all over the top a mixture made with 61b. coarse brown sugar, lib. bay salt, 6oz. salt- petre, and about 41b. of common salt. As soon as the salt begins to “ give ” or melt, rub these ingredients well in, and turn the pieces frequently, keeping them all well covered with brine. As the salt melts strew more on, then throw a coarse clean cloth over the tub, and on this put a board, and weight this so that it keeps the pork well under the brine. If the trough is kept well covered with a two or three times folded flannel, a little more salt being added now and again, it will keej) to the very last. Another way of pickling pork is to make a brine of water and bay salt sufficiently strong to float an egg, and after it has been boiled, skimmed (till no more scum rises), and allowed to cool, lay the pick- ling pork in this. “ Petit Sale,” or French Larding Bacon.—Choose the fattest part of the pork (for this should have little or no lean with it), and rub this well with salt, which should have been previously pounded and sifted; stack the layers of this fat bacon in a shallow trough or tray, and leave it in a cool but not damp cellar; add more salt all round the bacon as the first dissolves, and keep it pressed down with a cloth-PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 152 covered board, weighted rather heavily. Let it lemain thus for six weeks, then hang in a drv airv room. This is the ordinary way, but for more deli- cate use here is the French mode, which, however, only keeps a week at the most. For this boil together common salt, bay salt, brown sugar, and water in the proportions of 21b. of salt, 4oz. brown sugar, and 2oz. bay salt to each gallon of water, stirring this fre- quently together; then when the salt, &c., is dissolved and the mixture has cooled, add an infusion of any spice or herbs to taste, as described above, and pour it over the pork, which should have been previously lightly rubbed with salt. This is ready for use in three days. Hams, to Pickle.—To each ham, if large, allow lib. bay salt, \\oz. saltpetre, and loz. black pepper, and pound and mix all these well together. Rub the ham very hard with this mixture, and let it lie in it for four days, turning and rubbing it daily ; then pour over it l|-lb. of treacle, and let it stand for a month, turning, basting, and rubbing it daily. Now lift it out, soak for twenty-four hours, then dry it carefully, sew it up in coarse cloth and hang it up to dry. This kind of ham requires no soaking before use. This is an excellent recipe, but for a hot or damp climate the following is better: lib. salt, lib. very dark sugar, 2oz. bay salt, l^oz. of saltpetre, and a gill each of ale and vinegar, with a little pepper. Keep it for a month or six weeks in pickle. These are both well-tested family recipes. (a la Ude).—Rub the hams well with salt and leave them to drain for three days. Throw153 MEAT, &c., TO CURE. this brine away, and have ready a fresh one made by mixing together for each 141b. ham, l-^oz. saltpetre, 6oz. to 7oz. coarse salt, £lb. coarse sugar; lay the hams in the trough skin downwards, and rub them thoroughly with this mixture, being sure every part gets its share ; after three days of this treatment, pour over each ham a pint of vinegar, and keep it turned, basted, and well rubbed daily for a month; then smoke them for a month, hanging them rather high in the chimney lest the fat should melt, which it is apt to do when pickled in this way. (It may be observed that a flitch of bacon may be pickled by this recipe, and is particularly good, and keeps a long time, as the vinegar preserves it.) Hams pickled in this way are better baked than boiled, and at any rate must be cooked very gently and not overdone. The pork must be of first-rate quality. Hams, to Pichle (Italian fashion).—Mix together two quarts of Barolo wine (a rough red vin du pays, of the Burgundian type), three quarts cold water, 61b. coarse salt, nearly lib. bay salt, and about 6oz. salt- petre. Dissolve this all well, and when cool add to it an aromatic infusion as described above; then use it as in the preceding recipes. In Westphalia they boil together six quarts of water, 71b. of salt, nearly 21b. of sugar, lOoz. saltpetre, and 4oz. aromatic herbs, tied up in a piece of muslin ; when cold, strain and use. Bor Bayonne hams, make a pickle with two quarts good sound red Drench wine, three quarts cold water, 3|lb. of common salt, lOoz. bay salt, 5oz. saltpetre, and an infusion of rosemary, sage, and lavender.154 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. Hams, to Vickie {old Yorkshire way).—Rub two or three hams well with a mixture of half a peck of salt, ^oz. sal prunella, 2oz. saltpetre, and 41b. coarse sugar. Then lay them in a tub, covering them with the rest of the mixture. Let them he in this for three days, then take them out and let them hang for twenty- four hours at least. Meantime prepare a pickle with enough water to cover the hams thoroughly, and suffi- cient salt to float an egg; boil, skim, and strain this, and steep the hams in this when cool, for a fortnight. Pig’s cheeks are prepared in just the same way as either bacon or ham. The rest of the head, with the tongue and the pettitoes, are salted for a few days, then used for brawn. Ox Tongues, to Pickle.—Pound together very finely 4oz. common salt, 3oz. bay salt, |oz. of saltpetre, and the same of sal prunella, with 4oz. coarse sugar; then rub this mixture well into the tongue, rubbing and turning this daily for three weeks. It is best to do two or three tongues together. (This also is a well tried old family recipe.) Tongues need care in preparing them for the pickling tub; they must be freed from all root, gristle, and fat; and all the slimy sticky substance often found adhering to them must be carefully wiped off with a clean cloth ; if left on this would spoil the pickle used. Another way of preparing these is thus: make a pickle by boiling together 6oz. salt, 4oz. sugar, and a short i0z. of saltpetre, to each quart of water; skim this well till no more scum rises, then strain it, and pour it when cool over the trimmed tongues, which should have been previously lightly rubbed all over with salt.CHAPTER XI. MEAT, &c., TO CUKE—(Continued). After considering tlie most usual forms of cured meat, sausages appear the next tilings to claim one’s attention. These are of many kinds, from the ordinary farmhouse sausage made with equal parts of fat and lean pork, seasoned with pepper and salt to taste, to the delicate saucisse truffee au foie gras of the high class Italian warehouse. It is clearly impossible within the limits of this book to give an exhaustive list of these dainties, but perhaps the following recipes may at least be to some degree representative of the various types. As said before, sausages may be roughly divided between those requiring almost immediate consump- tion, and those which are smoked and otherwise prepared to make them keep, in some cases almost indefinitely. Before, however, considering the sausages themselves, a few words must be said concerning the mincer and the skins used in their manufacture. The simpler the mincer the better, for any complicated arrangements which render difficult its thorough and constant cleansing are to ve avoided. It should be taken to pieces.PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 156 thoroughly well washed, and carefully dried each time it is used; for this reason, if the cook is a fairly careful woman, an enamelled lined mincer is to be most recommended ; these, however, chip very readily, and therefore careless treatment is fatal to them. A very nice, and absurdly cheap American mincer, the “Universal chopper,” has been brought out of late, which is an excellent all-round machine for family use, possessing cutters for different purposes, and delightfully easy to take apart and clean. Soda and boiling water are not expensive, but a dirty mincer is decidedly extravagant, as it inevitably spoils everything entrusted to it. As regards the skins, these are usually procured ready prepared from the butcher, but it is advisable even then to rinse them very thoroughly at home. Then, again, skins put up in tins may be procured from first-class Italian warehousemen, and are also supplied by some of the makers of mincing machines. These tinned skins require thorough soaking—or they may give an over strong salt taste to the sausage meat—they should then be fixed to the tap, and the water allowed to run freely through them. If, how- ever, the skins must be prepared at home, wash and scrape them thoroughly, using strong salt and water for this purpose, and let them soak for some days in salted water; then repeat the scraping and washing, and lastly run the water from the tap through them until they are perfectly fresh and sweet, without the slightest odour about them. They are filled by slipping one end over the filler-spout of the mincer, and tieing it firmly into position. Then force in the157 MEAT, &c., TO CURE. farce, being careful not to overfill the skins—or they will burst—and give the skin a twist at convenient lengths, fastening these by looping them through each other, giving a tight twist each time. The ordinary method of making sausages is given above, but this recipe is varied in almost every household. For instance, three parts of lean to two parts fat pork, seasoned with finely crushed salt, freshly ground black pepper, and, when liked, a dessertspoonful of very finely minced sage; or take, say, a pound each of good veal (free from skin, gristle, &c.), lean pork, and fat pork; mince this very finely, and strew over it loz. salt, f oz. pepper, a small nutmeg grated, and a small teaspoonful of pounded mace; or, add to either of the previous recipes from one-third to one-half the bulk of the meat in freshly grated white bread crumbs, season- ing these with white pepper, salt, and spice if liked, or using the French “Quatre epices ” mixture. Oxford Sausages.—These are made of lean veal and pork, and very finely minced or shred suet, or flead, as preferred, allowing fib. freshly grated bread crumbs to each lib. of meat. These are seasoned with pepper, salt, powdered herbs (a tea- spoonful of mixed herbs to each pound of meat), grated lemon peel, and a finely minced anchovy, as you please. These seasonings may be varied to taste. Truffled Sausages.—Mince fairly fine lib. 4oz. of fat and fib. of lean pork, seasoning this with foz. of salt, and three or four good pinches of the quatre epices; for this quantity stir in 6oz. sliced truffles.158 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. and mix it to a paste with about a gill of new milk or single cream. Saucisse an Vin.—Prepare a farce as for the truffled sausage, only moistening it with champagne, Madeira, or any good Rhine wine as you please. A variation of this is made by mincing two parts lean to one of fat pork, and seasoning this with a pinch of saltpetre, pepper, salt, and a fairly strong flavour- ing of aromatics, such as juniper berries, marjoram, thyme, coriander, &c. Work these ingredients well together, moistening them with half a pint of light white wine, or best white wine vinegar ; fill, and tie in the usual way, then hang them up for five days in a cool, dry place ; even in summer these sausages re- quire keeping forty-eight hours before eating them. Smtcisse an foie gras.—Por this take any delicate sausage mixture, such as the one made with veal (but without bread), and to each pound of the sausage farce allow from 2oz. to 4oz. of foie gras, previously sieved, and, of course, add some sliced truffles. In private houses these are made very small, but in France this reckons amongst the saucissons, and is made as thick as a man’s wrist; the skins also are dyed with a little liquid carmine before the meat is put in; the sausages are then steamed till cooked (from half to three-quarters of an hour), and then left till thoroughly cold, when the outside is brushed well over with boiled olive oil, or else the sausage is dipped bodily into melted white paraffin wax. Either of these processes ensures its keeping for a certain time, but these sausages are delicate.MEAT. &c., TO CURE. 159 Chicken and Ham Sausage.—Mince finely some cold coolced .oliicken and ham, or tongue (using two parts cliicken to one of liam), and to each pound of this mixture allow 2oz. of ham fat or loz. of fresh butter, and two or three button mushrooms. Mix well, inn it through the mincer, season with salt, white pepper, a dust of pounded cloves, and the same of coralline pepper. Use the dyed skins for this sausage, steam it three-quarters of an hour or so, then let it cool, and, if to keep, oil, or dip in the melted white wax. Game can be used in the same way, only reduce the quantity of ham considerably, using, say, 4oz. to the pound, adding freshly-made breadcrumbs to make up the weight (say 2oz. to 4oz.), and, if at hand, the livers of the game previously tossed in a little butter, season with salt, mace, and a dash of coralline pepper, and finish as before. These do not require steaming, as the flesh is cooked. Leber-ruurst.—Boil, or rather stew, equal parts of lean and fat pork in a very little water, then run them through the mincer; well wash and dry the same quantity of calf’s liver as you have pork, and then grate it down finely. Prepare a seasoning by mixing well together (for every 41b. of meat and liver) a tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of powdered cloves, a teaspoonful each of white and black pepper, and 4oz. of raw onion, or rather less shallot, cut up as small as possible. Mix this well with the pork and the liver, working it well together to get it thoroughly blended; and, lastly, take the fat which rose from the pork when cooking, adding to it sufficient good lard to make |-lb. altogether,160 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. melt this and pour it on to the above mixture. Have ready some large shins, and only three parts fill them, tying them securely ; lastly, cook them for about three-quarters of an hour in the liquid in which the pork was cooked, then drain them, and hang them up to dry in a cool, airy place. These sausages can be used at once, or else can be smoked for a couple of days, in which case they will keep. Chorissa.—Take equal parts of fat and lean pork cut from the prime joints of the pig (this is a Spanish sausage, for which the acom-fed pigs of the cork woods—about the most delicately flavoured pork in the world—are always used); mince this finely; cut a clove of garlic and rub a bowl or basin pretty freely with the cut side, turn the minced pork into this, and season it pretty highly with cayenne or coralline pepper, and a little salt; now pour over it sufficient dry sherry to cover the meat, and let it stand in a cool, diy place till the wine is all or nearly all absorbed. How put the meat into skins, adding to it any of the wine that may be left, tie the sausages, hang them in a cool, dry place, and when wanted drop them into boiling water, and simmer gently till cooked. They will keep six or eight months. German Sausages.—Chop, not too finely, one part each of fat and lean pork and two parts lean beef; for every 21b. of meat, take loz. salt, |oz. pepper, rather less sugar, and a pinch of saltpetre; infuse two garlic cloves in a full half pint of Rhine wine, and strain it into the mixture when fully flavoured, working the meat, seasoning, and wine well together; then fill calves’ bladders with the mixture, dry for161 MEAT, &c., TO CURE. five or six days, and hang- up in a cool, dry place. These sausages are excellent smoked, and, indeed, if to he eaten as they are abroad, uncooked, should be thoroughly smoked, say for ten days or so. Another way is to mince finely 31b. of lean pork, 21b. of lean beef, and lib. of fat pork into tiny dice ; season this with 3oz. salt, \oz. pepper, and a tiny pinch of saltpetre; add the seasoning gradually as you chop the meat, then turn the mince into a bowl well rubbed with garlic, pour on to it a gill of claret or Burgundy, and let it stand for six or seven hours in a cool place. Then fill the skins as tightly as you can, pressing the meat well down; let the sausages stand for a few hours, then again press down the meat to ensure the skins being perfectly filled. Now wind a piece of new tape backwards and forwards round the sausages once, tie this securely, and liaug the sausages in the smoking cupboard for ten or twelve days. These sausages should be about ten to fifteen inches long. They are generally eaten in thin slices without any further cooking, but if pre- ferred they can be simmered very gently for an hour, being careful not to let them quite boil. Bologna Sausage.—For this, mince finely a nice piece of lean beef, free from sinew or gristle; chop coarsely twice the quantity of lean pork, and have ready a quarter as much of fat bacon, cut into neat, and not too small dice. This fat should have stood for twenty-four hours before being cut up. Season all this with lib. salt, l^oz. each of black and white pepper, or use half ground pepper, half black peppercorns, and a little finely minced garlic; mix it M162 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. all well, put it into large bladders, tieing these with tape, and finish off as directed for German sausages. Beef Sausages.—These are generally made of the scraps and trimmings left over after cutting up joints, and are consequently apt to be tough and hard, but they will be found excellent if good lean beef, free from gristle and sinew, be used, the best proportions being 14oz. lean beef to 8oz. to lOoz beef fat or suet, and 4oz. to 6oz. of breadcrumbs, seasoning rather highly with salt, black pepper, and cayenne. Some people add a little finely minced shallot and a tiny pinch of saltpetre. Smolced Scotch Sausages.—The best way to make these is when a “ mart ” is being salted down for the winter. Take some beef that has been salted for two days, and mince it with some suet; season highly with salt, pepper, and onion or shallot, then fill the skins, tie and twist them into shape, and dry the sausages, or smoke them for a month or so in the chimney. Jeivish Sausages.—Grate some Hamburg beef, add to it half its weight of finely minced suet, and 2|oz. powdered allspice for each pound of meat. Pass it all twice through the mincer, then pound to a smooth paste, and fill some skins, leaving room for them to swell a little. Steam for thirty-five to forty-five minutes, then let them cool, and when cold brush them over with boiled olive oil. The following recipes do not refer to sausages, but will be found both excellent and useful. Beef Collared.—For this choose the thin flank,163 MEAT, &c., TO CURE. and see that the meat is young-, tender, and not too fat. Rub this well with salt and a very little saltpetre, and let it drain for a night; then rub it thoroughly with a mixture of salt, sugar, pepper, and allspice, and let it lie in this for ten days, if the weather is cold, turning it daily, and basting it well with its own pickle. Now bone it, removing all gristle and the coarse inner skin, dry it, strew the inside with minced herbs and quatre epices (or cook’s pepper), then roll it up as neatly and tidily as possible, binding it with strips of calico, and then with tape; now press it under a heavy weight for some hours, after which undo the bandages, re-roll the meat, tie it up again very tightly, then put it on in boiling water with a bunch of herbs and some soup vegetables, bring the water again to the boil, and then simmer it very slowly till cooked, which it will be in about three or four hours. When cooked, again press it till perfectly cold, and do not take off the bandage till it is. (A good shoulder of mutton, boned, can be used thus.) Beef, Dutch.—Choose a good-sized round of beef and rub it well with brown sugar, leaving it in its pickle for three days, turning and rubbing it constantly, then wipe it, and rub it thoroughly with 2oz. of saltpetre well pounded, and mixed with 4oz. of common and 4oz. of bay salt; keep it in this for a fortnight, turning it daily, then roll it up tight in a cloth, and press it under a heavy weight, after which you smoke it, still rolled up in its cloth. Boil or stew it piecemeal as it is wanted, pressing it well till cold, when it is excellent grated. Some people m 2164 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. pickle their beef like this, but add nutmeg and mace to the spices with which it is rubbed for the fortnight. Beef, Hamburg.—The winter is the best time for preparing this, though it must not be done when there is a hard frost. Prepare a mixture by mixing together very thoroughly 21b. of brown sugar, loz. pyroligneous acid, 2oz. each of saltpetre, bay salt, long peppers, allspice, and cloves, and loz. dried and ground juniper berries; work into this from 8oz. to lOoz. common salt, and when this is all well blended, rub it into a good piece of round of beef, which has already been hung for ten days ; then place it in the trough, and turn and rub it daily, night and morning, for ten days, being careful that the mixture is well rubbed in, and on, every part for forty minutes or so each time. When pickled, lift out the meat, wipe it dry, and sew it up in a coarse sacking, pressing it into a nice compact shape, and then smoke it in the cupboard for four or five days, being careful to use oak shavings and sawdust. Let it cool for a day, and then press it for three days, after which it must be hung up. Abroad this is considered sufficiently cooked by the smoking, and though it is frequently boiled in England, the flavour is never so good, for grating, at all events, Take off the sacking after smoking, and, if not to be used at once, sew it up again in a clean linen cover. Or else it can be dipped in melted paraffin wax after it has cooled down after smoking, and then it keeps admirably. The quantities for the pickle are given for about 121b. of beef. To serve this meat you165 MEAT, &c., TO CUKE. either grate it, or else slice it into slices 2Jin. long by l^in. wide, and as thin as white paper. Beef, Ham.—Take a nice, well-shaped leg of beef and trim it into a ham shape. Pound together loz. bay salt, loz. saltpetre, lib. common salt, and lib. coarse sugar; this will be enough for a leg weighing from 141b. to 151b. Pub this mixture well into the beef, turning and rubbing it every day for a month, basting it well with its own pickle; then take it out, rub it in bran or sawdust, and hang it in the smoke cupboard for a month, after which it can be taken down and hung in a dry place till wanted. Bear hams are done in precisely the same way, though many people think the bear ham improved by being first marinaded in oil, vinegar, herbs, &c. Jewish.—Choose a nice piece of the round, and rub it well with a mixture of pounded mace, cloves, nutmeg, juniper berries, and pepper, then add to this, salt, Jamaica pepper, and some bav leaves ; let it lie in this pickle for ten days, strewing it well with sliced shallot or garlic, or both; boil some good white wine vinegar, and then set it aside to cool; now turn the meat and its pickle into a deep pan, and pour the vinegar over it when cold, and cover down close. In a hot climate, the vinegar is allowed just to cover the meat, and over it is poured a layer of olive oil, and the pan is then closely covered down. Red.—Choose beef with as little bone as may be (the flank is best), sprinkle it well with salt, and let it drain for twenty-four hours; now rub it with the following mixture : lib. common salt,166 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. loz. bay salt, loz. saltpetre, and |lb. coarse sugar, pounded and well mixed. (A few grains of powdered cochineal added to this pickle improves the colour.) Rub this piclde well into the beef for a week, turning and basting it daily, then leave it in the pickle three or four days longer, only turning, but not rubbing it. It is excellent for cooking in eight days or so, but if to be smoked, leave it sixteen days in the pickle, then drain it, and smoke for a few days. This makes delicious sand- wiches. Beef, Salted in a Hurry.—Rub some 51b. 01 61b. of beef well with salt, then flour well a coarse clean cloth, and fold the meat up in this, lay it in a pan of boiling water and cook as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will eat as salt as if salted for four or five days. Hound, to Salt.—For 251b. of round take 2oz. of saltpetre, 4oz. of pepper, 6oz. of sugar, and ^lb. each of bay and common salt; rub the meat well all over with this mixture, rubbing, basting, and turning it daily for a month. It can then be hung up and dried, or boiled straight as it comes out of the pickle. As in most of these old-fashioned recipes, it must be observed that the boiling here spoken of is in reality gentle simmering. Whole, to Salt. — Take as much cold spring water as will well cover the meat you wish to salt, and with this water and bay salt make a brine strong enough to float a potato; boil this well together till the salt is dissolved and all the scum has ceased to rise, leb it stand till cold, then pom- it167 MEAT, &c., TO CURE. over the meat in the pickling tub or barrel. This is an old Scotch recipe used when a “ mart ” or bullock was killed and the whole salted down for the winter use of the family. Mutton Hams:—These can be cured by almost any recipe given for pork ham, and if smoked make excellent rashers. Sprats, to Pichle.—Pound together 21b. common salt, 4oz. each of bay salt and saltpetre, 2oz. sal prunella, and a little cochineal. Now have ready a peck of sprats, and pack these in a stone jar, a row of sprats, then a layer of the above mixture, and repeat these two layers, pressing them down well till the jar is full; cover down closely, and keep in a cool, dry place for six months, when they will be ready. The sprats must be as fresh as it is possible to get them, and must be neither wiped nor washed. Salmon, to Kipper.—Cut up, clean and scale the dsh, and remove the bone neatly, then rub it well all over with equal parts of salt and brown sugar, to which you add a tiny pinch of saltpetre ; let the fish Lie in this for two days, covering it with a board rather heavily weighted, then hang it up to dry, if to be used as what is called “ green kipper” ; or if to be kept, smoke it. To prevent the folds spoiling, it is a good plan to spread open the fish, stretching it out with wooden skewers. Some housewives add freshly ground black pepper to the salt and sugar. It hardens very quickly, and if kept long in the smoking cupboard the slices should be soaked for twenty to thirty minutes before cooking. Herring and mackerel are delicious kippered in this way.168 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. Caveached Fish.—Cut the fish into slices, fillets, or pieces, as is most convenient, sprinkle them with pepper and salt (using white pepper for delicate fish), then fry these in oil. When cooked, drain, and put them aside to cool. Boil some vinegai (sufficient to cover the fish well), with enough white peppercorns, a few cloves, a blade or so of mace, and salt to flavour the vinegar well. Allow this to become cold, then pour to it a gill of oil; now pack the fish in a jar with very thinly sliced onion between each piece or layer of fish, and then pour the pickle over it all. Keep it well covered. Any fish can be treated in this way, salmon being particularly good, but requiring to stand for a day or two, as it breaks if put quite fresh into the pickle. Some people add a few peppercorns and bay leaves to the pickle.CHAPTER XII. ODDS AND ENDS. In this chapter will be found odds and ends of recipes that did not appear properly to belong to any of the foregoing chapters, and are therefore gathered up here indiscriminately. Barberries, to Preserve.—Choose fine bunches of the berries, or, if needful, make up pretty groups by binding them delicately together with white filoselle or fine sewing silk, and stone them with a needle. Cover the bottom of a preserving pan three inches deep with syrup, boiled to the thread, now put in the fruit, and let it boil up again, lifting the pan off directly it boils; let it stand for half an hour, then boil up again and lift out the fruit; now boil the sugar again for ten minutes, and again pour it over the fruit. Let it all stand till next day, then boil up the syrup again, and strain it over the berries, after which tie down when cool, and store. Mind the syrup is well skimmed all the time, and if boil- ing the fruit in it should discolour it, clear it at the last boiling with the whipped white and shell of an egg. Rowan (or mountain ash) berries can be pre- served in the same way.170 PICKLES AKD PRESERVES. Barberries, in Brine.—Make tlie bunches up as be- fore, and store them in jars in a strong salt and water brine, and tie down with a bladder; when a scum rises replace the brine with fresh, but always keep the berries well covered. Mountain ash or rowan berries can be preserved in this way, Walnuts, to Keep.—Put a layer of very dry sea sand at the bottom of a jar, and on this a layer of nuts, then more sand and more nuts, till the jar is full, but be careful that the nuts never touch each other in any of the layers. When wanted for use lay them in warm water for an hour, shifting the water as it cools, then rub them dry, and they will peel easily and eat well. Most nuts can be kept in this way. Another way, and one much practised abroad, is to pack the nuts, which must be perfectly sound, into stoneware jars with tight-fitting lids, and when they are packed close cover down tightly, and bury them from eighteen to twenty-four inches below the ground in a cool border, or bury in sand in a corner of a dry cellar. Grapes, to Keep.—When cutting the bunches from the vine, be careful always to leave a joint of the stalk on them ; now hang them up from a cord in a dry room, so that the bunches do not touch each other in any way, for unless the ah- can pass freely round and through them the grapes will mould and spoil. Many housewives close the ends of the stalk with sealing wax. Examine them at intervals to see how they are keeping. Artichoke Bottoms, to Keep.—Pull the artichokes from the stalk just before they are fully grown (as this171 ODDS AND ENDS. pulling draws out all the strings from the bottoms). and boil them till the leaves come off at a touch then strip the bottoms from the leaves and choke, and set them to dry on tins in a cool oven. Repeat this drying till they are quite desiccated, which you will know is completed if on holding them up to the light they appear transparent. Now put them in paper bags, hang them up in a dry place, and they will keep good for a year. When required for use steep them in warm water for three or four hours, changing the water two or three times in the process. Lemons and Limes, to Keep.—These may be kept by the same recipe as is recommended for walnuts, i.e., in sand; or they can be hung up in nets in such a way that the air can get all round them freely, being careful they do not touch one another in any way. Abroad they are preserved in crocks full of cold water, which is changed weekly, care being taken to keep them well immersed. Foliage, to Dry, for Decorative Ptirposes.-—Take nice asparagus fronds, maidenhair, or any other ferns, or autumnal foliage, and lay it carefully be- tween sheets of clean blotting paper, and weight these down evenly under heavy books; next day turn them, iron them with a rather cool iron, and return them to whatever press you choose (the napkin press is capital for this purpose). Repeat this turning every twenty-four hours till the leaves are quite dry and tough, but not brittle, and still preserve their colour. The great secret about this process is to do it as slowly as possible, for if the least hurried the leaves will crisp up and discolour.172 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. After use they should be returned to their paper and press, and, if carefully treated, will last a long time. Maidenhair prepared thus is specially valuable, as it keeps both colour and shape admirably, and naturally does not wither as fresh gathered fern is apt to do in a hot room. Some people brush ferns over when dry with a very weak solution of gum arabic, to which a drop or two of green colour may or may not be added, as you choose. Rose Petal Conserve.—Make a syrup with lib. of best cane loaf sugar and as little good rose water as you can manage; take lib. of rose leaves of the old- fashioned red cabbage kind, and dry these in the shade, after which wash them for a minute in boiling water; then drain and dry them, and add them to the syrup with a spoonful of good orange flower water; cook this to a marmalade, and pot in the usual way. This is a Greek recipe, and abroad is much liked, though for English taste it is distinctly sweet. Rahat la Koum (or Turkish Delight).—Make a clear syrup with lib. of best cane loaf sugar and a pint of water (in Turkey and Greece this would be either rose or orange flower water, but for European tastes this is decidedly too sweet); clear this syrup with the white of an egg and the juice of half a lemon in the usual way; meanwhile dissolve 2oz. of the finest wheat starch as smoothly as possible in a gill of water, strain it and add it while boiling to the syrup, and boil it all together till it is quite thick and ropy; then flavour it pretty strongly with rose or orange flower water. Now have ready two plates,173 ODDS AND ENDS. one thickly brushed over with almond or sweet oil, the other as thickly dusted with sugar; pour the mixture on to the oiled plate and let it stand for a minute or so to cool, turn it over on to the sugared plate, then wipe off any oil that may adhere, cut it into blocks, dust it thickly with sugar, and let it stand till fairly dry, being careful the pieces do not stick together; and then pack in grease-proof paper and store in tin boxes. Of course, any other flavouring essence may be used instead of the orange or rose water. Nougat cle Montelimart.—Blanch, peel, and dry in the oven lib. of sweet almonds and 4oz. of pistachios, without, however, allowing them to discolour, and blanch and bake 4oz. of almonds to a red brown. Now put into a pan 12oz. of best white honey, and the same of best cane caster sugar, and boil these together to the crack; then pour it on to the stiffly whipped whites of five eggs, whisking it well together, and allow it all to simmer gently till, on dipping your finger and thumb into water, and then into the syrup, the latter does not adhere to the fingers; when you can make it “ball,” lift the pan from the fire, and stir in the almonds, white and brown, and the pistachios. Have ready spread on a board a sheet of wafer paper, and spread this as. evenly as you can with the mixture in a layer fully two inches thick; on this place another sheet of wafer paper, and, lastly, lay a board or a clean tin on the top and weight it evenly. Let it stand till the next day, when it can be cut in blocks and packed in grease-proof paper in a tin box. You can174 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. make many varieties of this nougat; for instance, chocolate nougat, when you use l^lb. of blanched hazel nuts and 12oz. of grated chocolate instead of the almonds and pistachios, and make in just the same way; or you can mix in crystallised rose leaves or violets, varying the nuts by using broken-up walnuts or 'pignole (fir cone nuts), &c. Turon Blanco (Spanish Nougat).—Into a bright copper stewpan put -|lb. of best cane icing sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a tablespoonful of either rose or orange flower water, as you please; whisk all this together over a slow fire till it is of the con- sistency of fairly stiff meringue paste, then stir into this mass 3oz. each of blanched and finely shred almonds and pistachios. When this is all perfectly blended, run the mixture into little straight moulds (three and a half to four inches long by one and a half inches wide and deep), which have been previously well brushed over with almond oil When these bars are firm and set, pack in an air- tight tin, between layers of grease-proof paper. This is a favourite Christmas sweet in Spain, and is sometimes also made, like the French nougat, with honey. Gocoanut Cones.—Scrape and pound the flesh of a fresh cocoanut, and for one of ordinary size allow the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth, and a spoonful of caster sugar, with rose-water to taste; stir this all together till stiff enough to shape into little cones, which are then placed in a very slack oven till the outside is crisp and stiff, but not coloured. The centre should be quite soft. TheseODDS AND ENDS. 175 can- be flavoured with any essence or liqueur to taste. Barley Sugar.—Prepare first of all some barley water, by pouring a quart of cold water ou to a handful of common barley; add the quarter of a thinly pared lemon rind, and let it all simmer to- gether for a couple of hours; let it stand for a little, and then pour it off carefully, when it should be quite clear. (If this is wanted simply as a drink, it must be flavoured and sweetened to taste, and if in a hurry a little can be got in half an hour, but it is not so good as when properly made ; if iced, this makes a delicious summer drink.) Now dissolve *21b. of best cane loaf sugar in a pint of this barley water, and bring it to the “ ball,” add a little lemon juice, and re-boil to the “ great crack ” ; now add a few drops of essence of lemon, pour the mass on to an oiled marble slab, and cut it into strips. Allow these to cool, and when nearly cold take each strip and twist it in your hands, and pack when perfectly cold in air-tight tins. Toffee (Assafrey).—This toffee is made by a well- known Glasgow confectioner, and is a form of the popular Bussian toffee. Put into a delicately clean stewpan a pound of brown (cane) sugar, with 4oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of water; bring this to the boil, then add to it a dessertspoonful of essence of vanilla and a gill of cream. Boil this till on dropping a little into cold water it will harden; then colour with a little cochineal or carmine, boil two minutes more, lift it off the fire and let it go off the boil before pouring it on to an oiled or buttered tin,PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 176 cutting it into squares, bars, &c., as you please, when partially set. Toffee (Russian).—Make the toffee in the usual way, only using lib. of sugar, about 14oz. of cream, and a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla. Some people stir blanched and shred pistachios into this, and cut it into bars. Toffee is like nougat in its variations. For instance, scrape down |oz. of best vanilla chocolate and mix it very smooth with a little single cream or new milk, gradually adding more milk, till you have used a gill altogether; then add to this 6oz. of fresh butter, 12oz. brown sugar, and a tablespoonful of treacle; boil this altogether for twenty minutes, stirring it all the time, for it is very apt to catch, add a little essence of vanilla, then turn it out to cool on a buttered tin. This should never be crisp, but of the consistency of chocolate. It is a very favourite bonbon in India. Or, add an ounce of ground ginger to every |lb. of brown sugar used in toffee making, and this will make a very nice ginger toffee. O o Popcorn.—This is not at all difficult to prepare. Any cornchandler will supply the necessary Indian corn. Take a “popper” (this is a kind of frying- pan with holes in it, but a fine meshed frying basket answers capitally), cover the bottom of this not too thickly with the corn, and sprinkle this lightly with caster sugar. Now shake it over a very slow fire or a gas ring (mind the gas is turned down low) till the corn is all “ popped.” If you use coloured sugar you can vary this to any extent. Almonds (Devilled).—Blanch the almonds, and177 ODDS AND ENDS. cook them in hot oil or butter till a delicate golden brown (this will take eight or nine minutes), then drain for a minute or two in front of the fire, on kitchen paper, after which you roll them in cayenne and a little salt, tossing them in this till well coated, then set them in the oven for about five minutes to dry and crisp. Salted.—Proceed exactly in the same way, but use roughly crushed salt, or, better still, a little freezing salt, as this looks like little crystals. You can vary these flavourings to taste. All sorts of nuts can be done thus; hazel nuts and walnuts, blanched and halved, are particularly good, if tossed either in celery salt, or in Searcy salt. Fruit Paste.—A very nice dessert sweet can be made with the fruit pulp left over after jelly making, if it is all rubbed through a sieve and boiled sharply to a dry paste; then, to each pound (weighed before sieving) stir in 6oz. or 7oz. of caster sugar, and boil it all together for about twenty-five minutes more, taking care it does not burn. Of course, this paste is nicer if all the juice has not been extracted from the fruit. Fruit Drops.—Stir together over the fire, almost to boiling point, any good thick fruit juice, with sugar in the proportion of -|lb. of sugar to each half gill of fruit syrup. When it is sufficiently cooked, drop it in round drops on an oiled slab, and leave it till set. Cuerries, to Dry.—Choose very ripe fruit, and stalk and stone them ; arrange them on dishes or old trays, and leave them in the sun till dry and shrivelled. If the weather will not admit of this, put the trays N178 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. into tlie oven, or on tlie top of tlie stove, overnight, after the cooking is over, and leave them there till next day, repeating this process for two or three nights till the fruit is properly reduced. These are excellent for cakes, &c., as they are, but if soaked in luke-warm water for a little, they swell out, and make delicious compote and tarts. They must be kept in air-tight tins or bottles. Damson Cheese.—Stew the fruit till tender, then drain off the juice, remove the skins and stones from the fruit, return to this pulp about half the juice, weigh it all, and then boil it over a clear fire to a dry paste ; now stir in 6oz. of sugar to every pound of the fruit, and keep it stirred over the fire till the mixture will leave the sides of the pan and adhere to the spoon in a solid mass. If it yields to the finger without sticking when touched, it is ready, and should at once be turned into little pots or china moulds, and when cold covered with a paper cut to shape and dipped in spirit, and then covered down in the usual way. Bullaces, and, indeed, most plums, are good prepared thus. Honey.—Formerly honey was always used for conserves instead of sugar, which was too dear for general use. The only difference is that honey must always be most carefully clarified, and, needless to add, must first of all be run out of the comb. (See recipe for Orange wine, p. 81.) Pot Pourri.—Gather the flowers on a dry day only, and dry them in the sun (the rose leaves may, if the weather is very dry, be put straight into the jar). For pot pourri, roses, clove carnations, lavender andODDS AND ENDS. L79 ♦ rosemary flowers, jasmine, orange blossom, and violets may all be used. In fact, any sweet smelling, but not succulent, flowers may be used. Shred fine a handful each of bay leaves, rosemary, myrtle, lemon thyme, and sweet verbena; pound lib. bay salt, 2oz. salt- petre, one nutmeg, and |oz. each cloves and allspice, and have ready prepared the following mixture: One drachm each of musk, spirits of lavender, essence of lemon, and storax, loz. bergamot, 6oz. powdered orris root, and the finely pared rind of four lemons ; mix these all well together and put it in the jar, add- ing the flowers as you can get them (with the shredded herbs and leaves given above) in the proportion of three handfuls each of orange blossom and clove pinks, and two each of rosemary and lavender flowers, violets, and jasmine, to every six good handfuls of very sweet smelling rose leaves (for pot pourri the old-fashioned cabbage and single roses are the best); if the mixture gets too dry, add more bay salt and saltpetre; if too moist, more orris root, stirring it all well in. Pot pourri cannot be too much stirred. Start your pot pourri with the quantities given above, and then you can add more flowers or spice, &c., as may be needed. This potpourri, which is, it must be confessed, a little expensive, is most delicious, and keeps good for years. It is an old family recipe. A simpler form is the following: Gather the flowers as before, and dry in the sun; beat to a powder a small quantity each of musk, storax, gum benjamin, Seville orange peel, cloves, orris root, coriander seed, Jamaica peppers, lemon peel, &c., as you please, and fill the pot in layers—flowers, then a good sprinkling of n 2PICKLES AND PRESERVES. ISO bay salt, and last the spices, mixing them well in together. Baking Powder.—Honestly, this is in these days hardly worth the trouble of making, as so many good kinds may be bought. But cooks should re- member that these powders vary considerably in strength, and should therefore be careful when using them. The following formula, when baking powder must necessarily be home made, will be found satis- factory : Sift together, two or three times, 3oz. each of tartaric acid, carbonate of soda, and creme de riz, or fine rice flour. Lemon Juice.—If at any time you are using much lemon peel, or if lemons are cheap, squeeze them quite dry into a basin, then strain off free from pith, &c. Have ready very clean and perfectly dry little bottles, and fill them with this juice right up to the shoulder; then pour in sufficient sweet oil to cover the juice entirely, cork and seal the bottles tightly, and store upright in a cool place. Once the bottle is opened the juice must be used at once, as it does not keep well after the oil is removed. Lemon peel can be preserved if dried and packed in stoppered bottles. It will grate perfectly Lemon and orange peel alike may be preserved thus : Steep the thick skins for a few days in salt and water, then boil them in fresh water till soft enough to pierce with the head of a pin ; when you drain and put them aside. Boil a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water for five minutes, and pour it on to the peels ; let it all stand a week, then just boil up the syrup, lay in the peel again, and boil all together till the181 ODDS AND ENDS. peel looks clear, wlien you lift it out, spread it on a disli to cool and dry, sprinkling it well with, castei sugar, and when dry store it in tins. It also keeps well if poured, syrup and all, when clear, into a crock, and kept covered. Eggs, to Preserve.—Soak 41b. of lime in two gallons of water in an earthenware crock, let it stand two days, stirring it now and again, then put in the eggs (which must be very fresh) up to within three inches of the surface of the pickle. Or, mix in a large crock 31b. quicklime, lOoz. salt, loz. cream of tartar, and one and a half gallons of boiling water. Stir all these ingredients well together, let them stand twenty-four hours, then put in the eggs, which must be perfectly fresh (if warm from the nest so much the better) and entirely uncracked. These pickles make the shell rather brittle, so that the eggs should never be boiled in the ordinary way, but be put on in cold water, and then brought gently to the boil. Either way the eggs will, if carefully packed, keep a long time perfectly fresh and good. Feuit in Season.—One can only give averages for the preserve-making season, as it must in great measure depend on the weather, and the consequent growth and ripening of the fruit. Fruit for pre- serving should never be quite dead ripe, save in the case of medlars, which are not really good till lightly touched by the frost, so that discretion must be used as to the best time for jam and jelly making. This being premised, here are the average seasons for various kinds of fruits :PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 182 Apples.—All the year round, but at their best from September onwards. Apricots (English).—From August to October; foreign ones begin and end a month earlier. Bananas.—All the year round. Barberries.— In the autumn, generally from September. Cherries.—From June till September, but foreign fruit begins earlier. Chestnuts.—From November to February. Cobnuts.—September to February. Cocoanuts.—Properly in season from July to September, but obtainable pretty well through the winter. Cranberries (and most other moor berries, such as (lew, bil, and blaeberries). — From October to December. Currants (blaclc, red, and white).—From June to the beginning of September. Damsons.—These vary between September and October, but are at their best generally in September. Bullaces and sloes are about the same. Figs (Green).—August and September, but are often forced. (Dried).—Best just after the first frosts. Filberts.—August to the beginning of October. Gooseberries (Green).—Begin about May, and last a month or six weeks. (Ripe).—From about the middle of June to the end of August. Graves (Black Hambro’).—From June to end of September.183 ODDS AND ENDS. Grapes {Hot-house).—From October to end of April. {Muscat).—Best from July to October, but to be bad till Christmas. — {Foreign).—From August to April; this, however, varies. Greengages (English).—From August to the end of September; Foreign ones begin almost a month earlier. Californian ’gages are to be had in February and March. Lemons.—All the year round, but least good in the height of summer. Limes.—Like lemons. Medlars.—From the middle of September to the end of October. Melons {Hothouse and Pock).—From August to the end of September. {Water).— From September to about Christmas. Mulberries.—From August to September. Nectarines.—From August to October, but best in September. Californian nectarines from February to March. Oranges.—All the year round. {Seville).—Best in February and March. {Tangerines).—From the end of Novem- ber to the beginning of April. Peaches—From August to October, best in September. Californian peaches in February and March. Pears.—From the end of summer to the middle of winter. Californian ones in February and March.184 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. Pines.—Obtainable almost all the year round, but dear in the winter. Plums.—English, from beginning of August to the end of September; French begin and end a month earlier, whilst Californian are to be had from February to March. Pomegranates.—End of September to November. Quinces.—From the middle of September to the end of October. Raspberries.—From June to the end of August. Poivan (or Mountain Ash) Berries.—From August to October. Rhubarb.—From December to the end of August, counting forced and outdoor fruit. Strawberries.—From June to September, but usually end in August. Walnuts.—From September to Christmas, but for pickling in July. As said before, these are the average times for home grown fruit, which alone is fit for preserving at present, as the foreign fruit is usually too long gathered to make successful preserves. As regards dessert fruit, seasons are almost annihilated by the colonial and foreign trade, and if the price is no bar, almost every kind of fruit can be obtained all the year round, and the supply appears likely to increase, as the Australian and Californian imports increase yearly, and the Cape is now beginning to supply the market also. Vegetables in Season.—As was said of fruit, the seasons for these can only be given approximately, but, unlike fruit, they are usually bottled or otherwise185 ODDS AND ENDS. preserved when in full perfection, save in the case of a few spring vegetables and tomatoes. Artichokes {Globe).—All the year round, but best in July and August. {Jerusalem).—Obtainable from October to the end of April, but best in winter. Asparagus.—From March till the end of July, bul obtainable both earlier and later occasionally, as the foreign vegetables come in. Beetroot.—All the year round, but best in the autumn. Beans {Broad).—From end of June to end of August. {French).—From May till the end of October, but counting in foreign beans they are in all the year round. {Scarlet Runners).—July to October. Broccoli. — All the year round, but best in autumn. {Sprouts).—From January to the end of Mav. J Brussels Sprouts.—From September to the end of March. Cabbages.—From early spring till October at their best, but to be had all the year round. {Red). — From October to February; best for pickling when just, but only just, touched with frost. Capsicums. At their best from the end of August to middle of October. Carrots.—All the year round, but the old ones are best in the autumn.186 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. Carrots (New).—From March (when the French ones come in) onwards. Cauliflowers. — Almost all the year round, but English ones from the end of July to the end of November. Cardoons.—Mostly bought in tins, but is a winter vegetable, say November to January. Celery.—From September to March, but best in winter. Celeriac.—The same as celery. Chervil.—All the year round for decorative and culinary purposes. ' Chillies.—Like capsicums. Chives.—From May to September. Cucumbers.—All the year round, but best from May to July. Dandelion Leaves.—For salad, from April to July. Boots.—Cooked like salsify, &c., from July to October. Egg Plant (or Aubergine).—From July to Sep- tember. Endive.—From September to April. Eschalots.—In summer and winter at their best, but procurable ail the year round. Garlic.—All the year round, but best in winter. Greens.—From the end of October to March. Horseradish.—All the year round. Eale.—From December to March. Leeks.—All the year round, but at their best in the autumn and winter. Lettuces (English).—May to November; French, December to the end of April.ODDS AND ENDS. 187 Morels.—Fresh, from October to January; bottled or dried, all the year. • Mushrooms.—All the year round if cultivated; meadow mushrooms August to October. Onions {Cooking).—All the year round. (Pickling).—September to November. (Spanish).—From October to the end of April. (Spring).—From February to November. Parsnips.—From September to April. Peas (English). — From July to the end of September. French peas from end of April. Potatoes.—All the year round. But new ones from May, if English; from Christmas, if from Tenerife. Pumpkins.—From July to October; will store right through to March. Radishes.—From May to September. Salsify.—From December to March. Savoys.—From October to March. Scorzonera, or Black Salsify.—In season at the same time as the white. Seakale.—From December to May. Sorrel.—In season in summer and autumn. Spinach.—All the year, according to the kind. Sprue.—From January to June. Tomatoes.—All the year round. Turnips.—All the year round. Turnip Tops.—From November to February. Vegetable Marrows.—From July to October. Watercress.—All the year round. Truffles.—Procurable fresh from October to March, but at their best from November to January.188 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. Vegetables foe, Pickling.—The same remark applies to pickling vegetables as to preserving fruit, i.e., that discretion must be observed as to the times, as these must depend on the condition of the weather. Cabbage.—White, September and October; red, August, or after first frost. Cauliflowers.—Pickle in July or August. Capsicums. — Yellow, red, and green, the end of July and August. Chillies.—The end of July and August. Cucumbers.—The middle of July and August, Cschalots.—From Midsummer to Michaelmas. Garlic.—As eschalots. Gherkins.—The middle of July and August. French Beans.—In July. Horseradish.—November and December. Melons.—As mangoes, July and August. Mushrooms.—For ketchups and pickles, August and September. Nasturtiums.—July and August. Radish Pods.—July. Onions.—July and August. Samphire.—August. Tomatoes.—July and August. Walnuts.—First or second week in July. Artichokes (Globe).—,July and August. ( Jerusalem).—July to November. Laver.—Like samphire. Heebs foe Deying.—Chervil, elder flowers, fennel, and parsley.—May, June, and July. Marjoram, mint, orange thyme, and pennyroyal.— June and July.189 ODDS AND ENDS. Lemon thyme, lavender, rosemary, balm, basil, burnet, savoury, tarragon, thyme.—July and August. Sage.—August and September. G-atlier on a dry day, pick over, and dry at once in a Dutch oven or by the side of the stove. Pick off the leaves, sift, and bottle.INDEX Almonds, salted, 176. devilled, 176. Apricots, to bottle, 27. Artichokes, to bottle, 13. bottoms, to keep, 170. Asparagus, to bottle, 13. Bacon— to cure, 138-146. Flitch, English, 149. „ Yorkshire, 150. French, or petit said, 151. Baking powder, 180. Barberries, in brine, 169. to preserve, 168. Barley sugar, 175. water, 175. Beans, broad, 14. French, 14, 19. Bear Ham, 165. Beef— Collared, 162. Dutch, 163. Hamburg, 164. Ham, 165. Jewish, 165. red, 165. xound, to salt, 166. Beef (Continued)— salt in a hurry, 166. whole, to salt, 166. Bees— Dandelion, 88. Ginger, 88. Home-brewed, 86. Nettle, 88. Brandt— Apricot, 25, 58. Carraway, 64. Cherry, 58. Currant, 64. Ginger, 58. Lemon, 60. Orange, 59. Peach, 59. Walnut, 32. Brine, 102. Canning, 9-12. Cardoons, to bottle, 14. Carrots, to bottle, 14. Catsup — Anchovy, 113. Camp, 113. Cockle, 113 Cucumber, 114.191 INDEX. Catsup (Continued1 — Elderberry, 115. Mushroom, 115. Oyster, 115. Tomato, 116. Walnut, 116. Caveached fish, 168. Celeriac ,, 14. Celery ,, 14. Cherries, in brandy, 30. to dry, 177. Chestnuts, glace, 33. syrup, 33. Chutny— home-made Indian, 116. 117. Sambals, fresh, 119. Shrimp, 119. Tomato, 117. „ green, 118. Cocoanut cones, 174. Compote— Cranberry, 112. Lemon, 112. Pear, 112. Tomato, sweet, 113. Conserve— Apricot, 51. Orange flower, 51. Eose flower, 51, 172. Damson cheese, 178. Cordial, 62. Gin, 62. Wine, 77. Drying room, 148. Eau de vie blanche, 56. Eggs, to preserve, 181. Endive pur6e, 18. Essences, 89. of capsicum, 125. Figs in syrup, 32. Fish caveached, 168. Flead, 140, 142. Cake, 141. Foliage, to keep, 171. Fruit— to boil, 36, 38. to bottle and can, 23, 24. „ (sans sucre), 29 in brandy, 25, 29. glaces, 24. for jam, 35. juice, 29. to keep, 36. drops, 177. pastes, 171, 177. to pot, 38. in powder, 26. pulp, 26. raw, preserve, 52. in season, 41, 181. in syrup, 24. whole, 39, 40. Gin— Cherry, 62. Damson, 62. Orange, 63. Sloe, 63. Walnut, 71. Glue, for tins, 8. Grape marmalade, 48. to keep, 170. Green orangos (chinois), 32.PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 192 Ham— a la Ude, 152. Bayonne, 153. Bear, 165. Beef, 165. Italian, 153. Mutton, 167. to smoke, 145-148. to pickle, 152. Westphalian, 153. Yorkshire, 154. Herbs, to dry, 188. Honey, to clarify, 178. Jams and jellies, 34, 36, 38, 39, 41. Jams— Apricot, 40. Black currant, 10. Quince, 44. Rhubarb, 51. Strawberry, 40. Vegetable Marrow (mock ginger), 50. Jampots, 4. Jelly— Apple, 46. „ (crab), 47. Cranberry, 45. Elderberry, 45. Grape, 47. Guava (mock), 44. Hips and haws, 47. Quince, 44. Raw Currant, 43. Red „ 42. Rowan, 46. Strawberry, 43. Jelly (Continued)— Tomato, 46. White Currant, 42. Windfall, 48. Kipper— Green, 167. Herring, 167. Mackerel, 167. Salmon, 167. Lard, to make, 142. Lemons and Limes, to keep 171. Juice, 180. Orange peel, candied, 152 180. Peel, 180. Lettuce, puree, 18. Liqueurs—54-57, 71, 89. Angelica, 56. Anisette, 57. Barberry, 57. Bay rum, 57. Blackberry, cordial, 57. Brandy, apricot, 58. „ carraway, 64. „ cherry, 58. „ ginger, 58. „ lemon, 60. „ orange, 59. „ peach, 59. „ walnut, 32. Creme d’absinthe, 60. „ de menthe, 60. ,, d’oranges, 60. „ de vanille, 70. Cassis, 61. Citron cordial, 61.INDEX. 193 Liquettbs (Continued)— Coffee (huile au caf6), 61. Damson cordial, 62. Eucalyptus, 62. Gin, cherry, 62. ,, damson. 62. ,, orange, 63. ,, sloe, 63. „ walnut, 71. Ginger cordial, 63. Goldwasser (Dantzic), 64. Juniper, 69. Kiimmel, 64. “ Madam Anne’s,” 65. Mandarine, 65. Maraschino, 66. Milk punch, 66. Noyeau, 66. Eatafie d'abricots, 67. „ de fruits, 67. „ of jessamine, 68. „ orange, 67. ,, orange flower, 67. „ quince, 68. Easpail, 68. Eowan, 69. Strawberry, 69. Yanderhum, 69. Vespetro, 70. Walnut, 70. Maemai a.de— d’abricots, 48. Earberry, 48. Grape, 48. Lemon, 50. Orange, 49. „ (Tangerine), 50. Mabmalade (Continued)— Windfall, 48. Marrons glaces, 33. Mead, 87. cowslip, 87. Meat, to cure, 138. Mushrooms, to bottle, 20, 21. essence of, 22. pickled, 104. Mustard, French, 22, 125. Eavigotte, 126. Nougat de Montelimart, 173. Spanish (Turron bianco), 174. “ Panne,” 140. Paste, fruit, 45, 177. quince, 44 Pears, in brandy, 30. Peas, green, to bottle, 14, 16. Peel, orange and lemon, to candy, 52, 180. Piccallili, 92, 101, 121. Pickles, 90, 109. to close, 91. - Artichoke bottoms, 92. Asparagus, 93. Barberries and rowans, 93. Beetroot, 94. Carrots, 94. Cabbage, sauerkraut, 94. „ red, 96. „ yellow, 95. Cardoons, 97. Cauliflower, 96. Celeriac, 97. Celery, 97. O194 PICKLES AND PRESERVES. Pickles (Continued)— Cucumber, 97. ,, mangoes, 98. ,, and mustard, 99. Eggs, 99. Elderbuds, 99. „ flowers, 100. „ shoots (English bamboo), 100. French beans, 101. Fruit, 101, 109. Gherkins, 101. Grape, 101. Indian, 121. Lemon, 98, 102. Limes, 103. Melon, 98, 103. Mushroom, 104. Nasturtium, 104. Onion, 105. Oyster, 105. Peach, 98, 106. for pork, 144, 150, 151. Salsify, 97. Seakale, 97. Samphire, 106. Strawberries, 106. Tomato, 107. for tongue, 154. Walnut, 107. Pig, to cure, 138-143. Pig’s cheek, to cure, 154. Popcorn, 176. Pot-pourri, 178. ■Quantities, 37. “ Quatre epices,” 125. ■Quince jam, 44. Quince Jelly, 44. Paste, 44. Ratafie, 68. Sambal, 119. Rahat-la-koum, 172. Rose petal conserve, 172. Rowan berries, in brine, 170. in pickle, 169. Jelly, 46. Wine, 84. Stove, gas or oil, 3, 35. Salmon, to kipper, 167. Sambal, cucumber, 119, 120. quince, 119. Sausage-making, 14S, 155-157. Sausages— an foie gras, 158. au vin, 158. Beef, 162. Bologna, 161. Chicken and Ham, 159. German, 160. Home-made, 157. Jewish, 162. Liver (Leberwurst), 159. Oxford, 157. to preserve, 158. smoked Scotch, 162. Spanish (Chorissa), 160. Truffled, 157. Sausage skins, 156. Sauce qui hi, 121. sharp, 120. Worcester, 122. Smoking cupboard, 146. Sorrel puree, 18. Spices, 7.INDEX. 195 -"Spinach pur£e, 18. ^Spirit, 8. of curacoa, 72. of rosolio, 72. Sprats, to pickle, 167. '.Storage, 7. Strawberries to bottle, 28. Sugar, 6, 34, 37. overboiled, 36. •Syrup, 24, 30. to clarify, 55. Toffee— Assafrey, 175. Chocolate, 176. Ginger, 176. Russian, 176. Tomatoes, to bottle, 16. conserve, 17. pur6e, 17. Tongue, to pickle, 154. Turnips, to bottle, 14. Turon bianco, 174. Utensils, 4, 6, 8, 35, 143. Vegetables, desiccated, 19, 20. for pickling, 188. in season, 184. Vinegar, 7. Anchovy, 126. Apricots, in, 110. Balls, 136. Basil, 126. Burnet, 126. Capsicum or chilli, 126. Celery, 127. Cherries, in, 109. •Cucumber, 127. •Curry, 127. Vinegar (Continued)— Cyder, 127. Flower, Carnation, 127. „ Cowslip, 128. „ Elderflower, 128. „ Lavender, 128. „ Musk Rose, 128. „ Nasturtium, 128. ,, Orangeflower,128 „ Primrose, 128. „ Rose, 129. „ Rosemary, 128. „ Violet, 129. Fruit, black currant, 129. „ red „ 130. „ in, 109. „ Gooseberry, 130. „ Mulberry, 130. „ Raspberry, 131. „ Strawberry, 131. Garlic, 132. Honey, 132. Horseradish, 132. Melons in, 110. Mint, 133. Mother of, 135. Pears in, 111. Plums in, 111. Ravigotte, 133. Shallot, 133. Spiced, 92, 134, 137. Tarragon, 134. Thieves, 137. Toilet, 136. White Wine, 135. Walnuts, in brandy, 31, 32. to keep, 170.PICKLES AND PRESERVES. 196 Wax, bottling, 24, 91. Wine— Apple, 74. Birch, 74. Blackberry, 75. Celery, 124. Champagne (mock), 75. Chilli, 124. Coltsfoot, 76. Cowslip, 75. Currant, 76. Damson, 77. Dandelion, 77. Elderberry, 78. „ flower, 78. Garlic, 124. Wine (Continued)— Ginger, 78. Gooseberry (white), 79. Grape, 79. „ (unfermented), 80_ Horseradish, 82, 124. Orange, 80. Parsnip, 82. Primrose, 82. Raisin, 83. Red, 73. Rhubarb, 83. Rowan, 84. Shallot, 124: Whiteheart cherry, 84.. 'Tlje Series will consist of tlje following SOUPS. ICES. PICKLES AND PRESERVES. ENTREES. MEAT AND GAME. SWEETS—Part I. „ Part II. SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES. VEGETABLES.