PLATE XXXV. THE SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES IN THE SOLE. In this dissection the flexor brevis digitorum has been cut away close to its origin from the os calcis, and the tendons severed from the belly of the muscle and turned forwards; the abductor minimi digiti has been turned outwards after being cut away from its origin; and the origin of the abductor hallucis partially severed, to show more completely the structures which enter the sole of the foot under cover of its origin from the internal annular ligament. The large origin of the abductor minimi digiti from both tubercles of the os calcis and the space of bone between them, compared with the small pointed origin of the flexor brevis digitorum from the inner tubercle, is well shown. The fibrous band marked S is called the ligament of the fifth metatarsal, and occupies the position of Wood's muscle, of which it is a fibrous retrogression. The second layer of muscles in the sole comprises— 1. Flexor accessorius. 2. Tendon of flexor longus digitorum and lumbricales. 3. Tendon of flexor longus hallucis. The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis is connected with the upper surface of the flexor longus digitorum, as they cross the sole, by a strong fibrous slip, which is chiefly traceable into the tendons of the second and third toes. In dealing with the back of the leg it was pointed out that the flexor fibularis (flexor longus hallucis) is very constant in mammals, and in most is of far greater importance as a flexor of the digits than the flexor tibialis (flexor longus digitorum). In a great number of instances it sends slips to all the toes, especially those which are functionally the most powerful; while, with the exception of the bat tribe, the tibialis is a much weaker muscle. In other cases both tendons join, and conjointly form the perforating tendons of the toes. Hence the slip which connects the flexor longus hallucis with the flexor longus digitorum is really the remains of its insertion into the other toes. Conversely the flexor digitorum sometimes sends a slip to the hallucis, but it is very rare to find the two tendons entirely separate: this last arrangement is one which belongs chiefly to the lower mammalian orders. The flexor accessorius is nothing more than a tarsal slip of the long flexors ; it is extremely useful in correcting the otherwise oblique pull of the long flexor, the resultant of the two being a nearly direct pull backwards upon the digits. The nerve supply to the lumbricales is given in most textbooks as the two inner from the internal plantar, the two external from the external plantar, but more usually the three external are supplied by the external plantar, and only the inner by the internal, showing that possibly on account of pressure the nerve supply is removing to the deep surface of the muscle. (St. John Brooks.)