PLATE XXXIII. DEEP VIEW OF THE CALF, LONG FLEXORS, &c. In this plate the muscles of the calf have been removed, the tendo Achillis having been divided just above its insertion into the os calcis, the plantaris and gastrocnemius entirely removed, while the soleus has been cut away from its fibular origin, leaving the origin from the oblique line and the inner border of the tibia. Lastly, the deep tibial fascia has been removed in order to expose the long flexor muscles and posterior tibial vessels and nerve which lie under it. It is important to bear in mind this deep tibial fascia when ligaturing the posterior tibial artery, for unless this be incised much time will be lost in searching for the artery in the space between the fascia and soleus muscle. The fascia stretches across from the tibia to the fibula, being thin above, where it joins the arch of the soleus over the vessels, and gradually thickens as it descends, joining the internal and external annular ligaments respectively. It will be noticed, on reference to the plate, that very little of the tibialis posticus is seen, it being to a great extent under cover of an aponeurosis, which gives the flexor longus digitorum an origin from the fibula on its postero-internal border; from the lower part of the aponeurosis some of the fibres of the flexor longus hallucis arise. This aponeurosis has been named the deep intermuscular septum, and in well-marked muscular subjects is occasionally replaced by muscle fibres which belong chiefly to the origin of the flexor longus digitorum. The long flexor muscles are repeated in most mammalian orders, forming there as in man the deep layer, the flexor longus hallucis having as its homologue the flexor fibularis, and the flexor longus digitorum the flexor tibialis, the tibialis posticus remaining the same. But while the flexor fibularis exists in all species with but little variation, the flexor tibialis and tibialis posticus may vary greatly in size, and in some varieties of marsupials (Macropodidae) both the latter muscles are either rudimentary or wanting, the flexor fibularis alone remaining. In some of the bats the conditions are reversed, the flexor tibialis being the larger and displacing the flexor fibularis.' In order to render the deep view complete a separate sketch has been added showing the popliteus muscle, and also the lower posterior nerve supply of the joint; the origin of the popliteus from the posterior ligament of the knee, as well as its tendinous origin from the femur, is well shown. This deep view also shows how closely the fibres of the peroneus longus are connected at their origin with the external lateral ligament ol the knee-joint, in fact some of the fibres often arise from its base. In the opossum, ox, and gibbon the peroneus longus arises directly from the external condyle of the femur and replaces the ligament, the tendon having no attachment to the fibula, and thus permitting free rotation. In the human foetus as late as the fourth month the ligament and peroneus longus are in direct continuity, the muscle having but a slight attachment to the fibula. Thus the external lateral ligament is probably the lost tendon of the peroneus longus.- ' Dobson, Journal Anat. and Phijs. vol. xvii. p. 142. ' Bland Sutton, Ligaments—Nature and Morphology.