PLATE LVIII. THE ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA, AND SUPERFICIAL VIEW OF THE PERINEUM. In this dissection the skin and superficial fascia have been removed, and the fossa emptied of its fat. On the right side, the fasciae bounding it deeply have been left intact; while on the left side the anal fascia has been removed to expose the levator ani, and the obturator fascia cut into to show Alcock's canal, which contains the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia (CoUes's fascia) hag been left tc show how it covers the superficial perineal muscles, turning round the trans- versus perinei to form the anterior boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and to join the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. Late- rally it is attached to the lower border of the pubic and ischial rami as far as the tuber, and in front passes into the dartoid tissue of the scrotum, becoming continuous with the fascia of Scarpa. In the middle line a vertical septum descends to the bulb, completely dividing the space into two be- hind, but incomplete in front: hence in rupture of the urethra the urine must pass forwards towards the scrotum in order to gain the opposite side ; it cannot pass back into the ischio-rectal fossa because the fascia of Colles joins the an- terior layer of the triangular ligament. If the internal surface of the rami of the ischium and pubes be examined, it will be seen that the inner edge of their lower border turns somewhat in- ward, forming the inner margin of the tuber ischii; this is joined by another faint line which runs along the inner surface of the bone from the bottom of the symphysis pubis. The fascia of Colles (e) is attached to the former, while the latter receives the attachment of the anterior Inneb View of Pubes and Ischium. A, Crus penis; b, Erector penis; c, Trans- versus perinei ; d, Compressor urethraj; E, Fascia of Colles; f, Anterior layer of triangular ligament. The dotted line shows about the position of the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. layer of the triangular ligament (f), the space between giving attachment to the crus (a), erector penis (b), and transversus perinei (c). The ischio-rectal fossa is bounded:— In front.—By Colles's fascia turning over the transversus perinei to join the anterior layer of the triangular ligament. Behind.—By the tip of the coccyx. Externally.—By the tuber ischii and obturator fascia covering the obturator internus, edge of gluteus maximus, and great sacro-sciatic ligament. Internally.—By the anal fascia covering the levator ani, and the external sphincter. Contents.—Inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerve which cross the space, super- ficial perineal vessels and nerve, the perineal branch of the fourth sacral, and the padding of fat. The internal pudic vessels and nerve can be felt in the outer wall of the fossa running in the obturator fascia.