PLATE XXI. DEEP VIEW OF THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. In this plate a dissection of the deeper parts of Scarpa's triangle and front of thigh is shown. The adductor longus has been cut and the middle part removed ; the pectineus has also been divided and the ends turned back, exposing the obturator externus and its fascia and the obturator nerve. The rectus muscle has also been divided : this muscle has two heads of origin from the ilium, a straight head arising from the inferior spinous process and a reflected head arising just above the acetabulum: the latter is the original head of origin in early foetal life, the straight head being a later development, appearing about the third month as a thickening in its sheath. This double origin allows the muscle to act forcibly as an extensor in the different positions of the limb, for in the extended position the straight head will give the point d'appui, while the reflected will act best in the flexed position of the limb. Professor Cleland states that the presence of the straight head of the rectus probably saves that muscle at least half an inch more contractile muscular substance, and is thus an economy to the body. The deep prolongation of the fascia lata beneath the tensor vagin£e femoris is also well shown : it is usually a well-marked and powerful band, and is attached above to the ilium, just below the origin of the tensor. The profunda femoris is usually described as having four perforating branches, one given off above the level of the adductor brevis and piercing the magnus to get to the back of the leg, another piercing both these muscles, and two given off below the level of the brevis and piercing the magnus alone. Very often, however, the first and second are conjoined, and pierce the brevis and magnus ; sometimes there are two branches, and then it is usually the rule for them both to pierce the brevis as well as the magnus. Nerve Supply of Pectineus.—The pectineus of man is usually considered to be a dorsal muscle, and as such would be supplied by a dorsal nerve—the anterior crural. In about 8 per cent, of cases it also gets a branch from the obturator ; when this happens it is probably because the muscle then consists of two separate elements: a dorsal one supplied by the anterior crural, a dorsal nerve, and the other a ventral by the obturator, a ventral nerve. In the horse it consists of two layers, a superficial, supplied by the anterior crural and resembling the pectineus of man, and a deep layer supplied by the obturator and seeming to belong to the adductors, the two being separated by the pubo-femoral ligament. In reptiles this double nerve supply is frequently seen. The muscle is occasionally divided into two parts in man. The accessory obturator nerve which sometimes supplies it would be better named accessory anterior crural, because (1) its origin is more closely allied to the anterior crural than obturator; (2) if it rung with obturator it courses over the pubic ramus; (3) it supplies a portion of the pectineus in place of the anterior crural.^ Mr. Sutton ^ thinks that the ligamentum teres of the hip joint is the lost tendon of the pectineus muscle, for he finds that (1) in the lizard (Sphenodon) the tendon of the ambiens (pectineus) passes inside the capsule to the head of the femur ; (2) in the ostrich (Struthio Camelus) the ligament is continuous with the ambiens across the cotyloid cavity by means of fibrous tissue; (3) in the horse (Equus) the ligamentum teres is in two parts, one being hidden within the joint, the cotyloid portion, and one being attached to the pubes, the pubo-femoral portion—from this band the pectineus partly arises ; (4) in man the hgamentum teres is a fibrous band carrying blood vessels to the head of the femur. ' Dr. Patterson, Journ. of Anat. and Phijs. vol. xxvi. ^ Sutton, Ligaments—Nature and Mofyhology, p. 69.