42 PLATE XXI. A Sartorius. B Iliacus. C Psoas. D Pectineus origin. D' Pectineus insertion. E Adductor longus origin. E' Adductor longus insertion. F Adductor brevis. G Adductor magnus. H Gracilis. I Obturator externus. K Rectus origin, showing its two heads. K' Rectus. L Tensor vaginae femoris. M Anterior border of gluteus minimus. N Fascia lata enclosing tensor vaginae femoris. 0 Crureus. P Vastus externus. Q Vastus internus. R Placed on pubo-femoral band of capsule of hip-joint. S Fascia covering the obturator externus. T Placed on horizontal ramus of pubes. V Placed on small trochanter at point of insertion of psoas. VESSELS a Common femoral artery. h Common femoral vein, c Superficial femoral artery. d Deep femoral artery, e External circumflex. / Ascending branch of external circum- flex. g Transverse branch of external circum- flex. h Descending branch of external circum- flex. lb' Continuation of the last going down to enter the anastomosis in front of knee-joint. I Internal circumflex. h Ascending branch of internal circum- flex. I Descending branch of internal circum- flex. VI Continuation of internal circumflex which joins the so-called crucial anastomosis. 71 Branch which ascends in front of quad- ratus femoris to gain digital fossa and anastomose with gluteal and sciatic. 0 Obturator artery. p Muscular branches. r Second perforating artery—no true first perforating in this body. s Third perforating artery. NERVES 1 Anterior crural. 2 Branch of anterior crural to pectineus. 3 Internal cutaneous of anterior crural. 4 Middle cutaneous of anterior crural. 5 Nerve to vastus internus. 6 Internal or long.saphenous. 7 Nerve to rectus. 8 Nerve to vastus externus. 9 Twig from the last which accompanies h' and reaches the knee-joint. 10 Nerve to crureus, also sending a twig to the vastus internus. 11 Superficial division of obturator. VA Branch of superficial division which supplies the adductor longus; carries with it (16j the twig to the obturator plexus. 13 Branch of obturator to adductor brevis. 14 Branch of obturator to gracilis. 15 Deep division of obturator. 16 Branch of superficial division of obturator which joins obturator or subsartorial plexus, and is distri- buted to skin, also giving a vaso- motor twig to femoral artery. 17 Branch of long saphenous which joins the obturator plexus. 18 Ilio-inguinal nerve.