66 PLATE XXXIIL MUSCLES A Popliteus. B Soleus. C Upper third posterior surface of fibula from wliich soleus has been removed. D Flexor longus digitorum. D' Tendon of flexor longus digitorum. E Flexor longus hallucis. F Tibialis posticus. F' Tendon of tibialis posticus. G Peroneus longus. H Peroneus brevis. I Internal lateral ligament. K Tendon of biceps. L Tendon of semimembranosus. M Subcutaneous surface of ext. malleolus. N Posterior inferior tibio-fibularligament. 0 Posterior fasciculus of external lateral ligament. P Tendo Achillis. R Upper surface of os calcis. S Posterior ligament of ankle-joint. T Gastrocnemius. V External lateral ligament. Y Plantaris. VESSELS a Popliteal artery. h Popliteal vein. c Anterior tibial artery. d Posterior tibial artery. e Peroneal artery. / Posterior division of peroneal artery giving off articular, external calca- neal, and cutaneous branches. g Communicating artery. h Internal calcaneal branch. k Internal inferior articular artery. I Extei'nal inferior articular artery. m Posterior recurrent branch from tho anterior tibial artery. n Azygos articular. NERVES the 7, 8 Internal calcanean branches. 9 External popliteal nerve. 10 Inferior internal articular from internal popliteal. 11 Azjgos articular from the internal popliteal. 12 Branch of deep portion of the obturator nerve to knee-joint. 13 Inferior external articular from the external popliteal. 1 Internal popliteal. 2 Branch from internal popliteal to popUteus muscle. 3 Posterior tibial. 4 Branch to tibialis posticus and flexor longus hallucis (this usually comes off the posterior tibial a little lower down). 5 Branch to the flexor longus digitorum. 6 Branch from the posterior tibial to the ankle-joint. The plate also shows well the insertion of the semimembranosus tendon, sending a slip to join the internal lateral ligament of the knee and an expansion which covers in the popliteus. N.B.—The nerve to the popliteus comes off from the internal popliteal, and running down posteriorly to the muscle turns under its lower border and enters its anterior surface; the upper twig of the nerve in the small plate went direct to the superior tibio-fibular articulation.