PLATE Y THE INNER VIEW OF ARM AND BRACHIAL ARTERY. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the arm are (a) circum- flex ; (b) intercosto-humeral, just along the anterior fold of the axilla; (c) the internal cutaneous, a branch of which pierces the fascia above the main nerve ; {d) the upper external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral; (e) the lesser internal cutaneous ; (/) the external cutaneous. The inferior profunda artery is occasionally absent, and is also very variable in size and origin, and may arise in conjunction with the superior profunda, then running down with the ulnar nerve. In the plate it is shown arising by two trunks, one which has been called the inferior profunda (/) (firstly because it arises icom about the normal place of origin, and secondly because it pierces the internal intermuscular septum), the other which is called an accessory branch (c), and arises from the superior profunda. Another branch of the brachial, the vas aberrans, ' usually present, but often as a minute vessel, not admitting complete injection, arises close to or with the superior profunda, and descends over the median nerve supplying the biceps. Its downward continuation, when present, joins either the radial artery, or more rarely the ulnar, and may be minute, moderate or large enough to replace, or simulate the brachial, which then appears to overlie the median nerve. When of moderate size, it may replace the brachial origin of the radial (rarely the ulnar), giving rise to the common condition called high bifurcation of the brachial.' (Macalister.) Note on the Coraco-brachialis.—Professor Wood' has shown that in mammals this muscle consists of three portions :—1. The coraco-brachialis brevis, represented in man by a fibrous arch, rarely by muscle, arising from the coracoid process and inserted into the humerus just below the subscapularis. 2. The coraco-brachialis medius, or the coraco- brachialis of man. 3. The coraco-brachialis longus arises with the medius, being connected at its origin with the pectoralis minor, and passes down internal to it to join the internal intermuscular septum, in which it is usually traceable as far as the internal condyle. It is usually represented in man by a fibrous band passing from the lower part of the muscle to the intermuscular septum. The coraco-brachial apparatus is found best developed in those animals ' which use the fore limbs for prehension, climbing, swimming, digging, etc., and appears to refer more to the wants and habits, than the pedigree or relationship of the animal.' The musculo-cutaneous nerve may either pierce the medius, or more usually it passes between the medius and longus. * Journ. of Anat. and Phijs. vol. i.