PLATE LVII. THE FRONT OF THE NECK AND THORAX OF A NEARLY FULL-TERM FOETUS. In this plate the anterior view of a nearly full-term foetus is shown. The front of the thorax was removed to show the relations of the thymus gland, and the position of the lungs when not expanded. The ligament of the thymus gland, which was described by the late Mr. Arthur Hensman in Morris's ' Anatomy,' is only present on one side, but it shows in its centre a shght bulging which encloses a small isolated mass of gland structure, such as is often found in it. Very often the hgament is present on both sides, the thymus gland being thus tied up to the lower border of the thyroid gland. The thjmus is developed in the foetus as a bilateral tubular prolongation of the third visceral cleft, which grows down along the side and front of the trachea to join the fellow of the opposite side and so form a median organ. It also receives a portion of the epithelium from the fourth visceral cleft. The thyroid gland is developed from two sources, the lateral lobes as diverticula from the fourth visceral clefts, while the median lobe or isthmus is a median diverticulum from the pharyngeal hypoblast opposite the second visceral arch, which grows down the front of the trachea and unites with the lateral lobes. This remains in the foetus for some time as the thyreoglossal duct, opening on the surface of the tongue in the foramen cascum. If, as occasionally happens, the upper part remains pervious, it is called the lingual duct. In the lower part the pyramidal middle portion or isthmus of the gland is developed, which is usually attached by a fibrous cord to the thyroid cartilage or thyro-hyoid ligament, and is called the ligament of the thyroid gland. This plate shows the relatively small space occupied by the lungs in the foetal chest before inflation. In this condition they are of a uniform, firm texture throughout, and resemble in colour and structure the adult liver; pieces cut off and thrown into water sink. When, however, the lungs are inflated, either artificially or by the efforts of a newly born child to respire, they become inflated with air and are then buoyant in water ; this is taken advantage of in medico-legal cases as a test to find out whether the child has breathed or not.