PLATE XI. THE DEEP PALMAR ARCH AND MUSCLES OF PALM. In this dissection of the pahn, the superficial arch, median nerve, flexor tendons, and hmibricales have been removed in order to show the deep arch. The annular ligament has also been di\dded, and the tendons cut off and left to show their relative position whilst passing mider it. Note on the Short Muscles of the Thumb.—The so-called inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis—at least, the part visible in the plate—is better named the adductor obliquus, because Von Bischoff has shown that the true inner head of this muscle is a small slip which arises from the base of the first metacarpal bone, and passes to be inserted into the ulnar sesamoid bone of the thumb ; whereas the rest of the mass, which usually is known as the inner head of the flexor brevis, is in reality an oblique adductor, while the so-called adductor of Gray, etc., should be called the adductor transversus. A table can thus be established, comparing the muscles of the thumb with those of the great toe:—- Abductor pollicis with the abductor hallucis. Adductor transversus pollicis with the adductor transversus hallucis (transversus pedis). Adductor obliquus pollicis with the adductor obliquus hallucis (the ordinary adductor). Flexor brevis pollicis with the flexor brevis hallucis. a Eadial head. a Tibial head, b Interosseus primus volaris. b Fibular head. The flexor ossis metacarpi (opponens) pollicis has no homologue in the human foot; it is really a segmentation of the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis ; but in the orang an opponens hallucis, which is closely connected with the flexor brevis hallucis, has been described. The interosseus primus volaris is the true ulnar head of the flexor brevis pollicis. This classification is taken from a paper by Dr. Cunningham in the ' Report of the Challenger Expedition,' vol. v. p. 1S7, to which the reader must be referred for more information, as well as to an excellent paper by Dr. St. John Brooks in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiologrj, vol. xxii.