PLATE XL. THE ANTERIOR TRIANGLE-SECOND VIEW. In this dissection the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid has been turned back to expose the structures lying beneath it. The Anterior triangle of the neck is bounded— In front.—By the middle line. Above.—By the body of the jaw, and a line drawn from it to the mastoid process. Behind,—By the sterno-mastoid. This space is subdivided into three smaller triangles by the passage across it of the omo-hyoid muscle below and the digastric above. i. The lower carotid or tracheal is bounded— In front.—By the middle line. Above.—By the omo-hyoid. Behind.-—By the sterno-mastoid. Floor is formed by the longus colli and scalenus anticus. Contents.—Sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, together with the twigs from the ansa hypoglossi. Carotid sheath, containing the carotid artery, internal jugular vein and vagus nerve ; inferior thyroid artery, sympathetic with middle cervical ganglion, recurrent laryngeal nerve, thyroid gland and middle and inferior thyroid veins, lower part of larynx, trachea, and oesophagus. ii. The upper carotid triangle is bounded— Above.—By the digastric. Belotv.—By the omo-hyoid. Behind.—By the sterno-mastoid. Floor is formed by parts of the thyro-hyoid, thyro-hyoid membrane, hyoglossus, middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx. Contents.—Common, internal and external carotids, superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occipital, and ascending pharyngeal arteries. Internal jugular superior thyroid, facial, lingual, ascending pharyngeal and occipital (sometimes) veins. Hypoglossal, descendens noni, twig to thyro-hyoid from hypo- glossal, vagus, sympathetic, superior laryngeal, with its external laryn- geal branch ; spinal accessory. Parts of the larynx and pharynx. iii. The submaxillary triangle is bounded— Above.—By the body of the jaw, and line drawn from this to the mastoid process. Below.—By the digastric (posterior belly) and stylo-hyoid muscles. In front.—By the middle line. Floor is formed by anterior belly of digastric, mylo-hyoid and hyoglossus. Contents.—Submaxillary gland, facial artery and vein, mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve, and submental vessels ; posteriorly is tlie external carotid artery in the parotid gland, giving off the temporal internal maxillary and pos- terior auricular branches and facial nerve; deeper than this lies the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein and the vagus, separated from the external carotid by the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles and glosso-pharyngeal nerve. These are separated from the structures in the anterior portion of the triangle by the stylo-niandi- bular ligament, which is really only a process of the deep cervical fascia,, and should not be called a ligament.