PLATE LXIII.-LXIV. DEEP VIEW OF THE FRONT OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. This plate represents a deeper dissection on the same body as the previoup one. On the right side, the internal oblique has been divided external to the linea semilunaris to expose the transversalis; while on the left the anterior portion of the sheath of the rectus has been stripped off to expose it and the pyramidalis, the oblique and transversalis muscles being cut away to expose the fascia transversalis. The pyramidalis is specially developed in those animals which possess a marsupial bone. It will be noticed that the arching fibres of the transversalis springing from Poupart'g ligament and passing inwards to join those of the internal oblique (forming the con- joined tendon), leave an oval space which is guarded only by the transversalis fascia. This space is crossed by the deep epigastric artery, and thus divided into two—(i) an external part, the internal abdominal ring; and (ii) an internal, the lower portion of Hesselbach's triangle: the latter is again crossed and strengthened by the obliterated hypogastric artery. Through the internal ring the cord or round ligament passes, and the oblique form of inguinal hernia descends when present, following the course of the cord along the inguinal canal, and issuing at the external abdominal ring. It would thus have the following coverings:—1. Peritoneum and subperitoneal tissue ; 2. In- fundibuliform process of the fascia transversalis; 3. Cremasteric fascia; 4. Inter- columnar fascia; 5. Subcutaneous tissue and skin. It must be remembered that the testicle in its descent pushes before it a process of peritoneum, the lower part of which remains as the tunica vaginalis, while the upper portion usually becomes obliterated. Should the whole of this process remain unobliterated so that the tunica vaginalis communicates with the peritoneal cavity, the bowel may have to overcome only a slight constriction at the internal ring to at once slip into the canal and descend into the tunica vaginalis, lying in front of the testis—a congenital hernia; or should the opening be so small that only the peritonejil fluid can drain into it, this fluid collects in the tunica vaginalis and forms a congenital hydrocele. Again, the tunica vaginalis may be cut off from the upper part of the process, and this process remain unobliterated : then the gut may descend into it and form a hernia into the funicular pouch of the peritoneum, or an infantile hernia. When the gut descends through the lower part of Hesselbach's triangle—the direct form—it may pass on either side of the obliterated hypogastric. If to the outer side—tha most common form between it and the deep epigastric artery—it would receive the same coverings as in the oblique form, save that it would push the main part of the fascia transversalis as a covering in front of it instead of entering the infundibuliform pro- longation of that fascia through the internal ring. The rarer form is when the gut comes through to the inner side of the obliterated hypogastric artery, and has to push before it or separate the fibres of the conjoined tendon which here strengthens the wall. It thus breaks through the wall opposite the external ring out of which it passes, and it has as coverings: 1. Peritoneum and subperitoneal tissue; 2. Fascia transversalis; 8. Conjoined tendon ; 4. Intercolumnar fascia ; 5. Skin and subcutaneous tissue. a