104 PLATE LIL Fig. I. MUSCLES, &c. A Crico-arytenoideus posticus. B Crossing bands of arytenoideus. B' Aryteno-epiglottideus really formed by the crossed bands of the arytenoideus passing over the arytenoids into aryteno-epiglottidean fold. C Deeper transverse portion of the arytenoideus. D Origin of the anterior muscular band of oesophagus. E Upper border of cricoid cartilage. F Crico-thyroid joint. G Inferior cornua of thyroid. H Superior cornua of thyroid. Fig. 11. A Arytenoideus. B Aryteno-epiglottideus. C Arytenoideus posticus. D Origin of the anterior muscular band of oesophagus. E Crico-thyroideus. F Arytenoideus lateralis. G G' Superficial fibres of the thyro-ary- tenoideus. H Deep portion of the thyro-arytenoideus. I Thyro-hyoid membrane. J Right ala of thyroid cartilage. Fig. III. A Thyroid cartilage. B Cricoid cartilage. C Crico-thyroid membrane. D Articular facet for thyroid cartilage. E Arytenoideus posticus. F Arytenoideus lateralis, G Deep portion of the thyro-arytenoideus. H True vocal cords, a cut edge of the I Cartilago-triticea. K Cut edge of mucous membrane. L Fibres of the palato-pharyngeus. M Inferior constrictor. N Lateral glosso-epiglottidean bands. 0 Tonsils. P Epiglottis. R Placed on the root of tongue just below foramen ctecum. S Thyro-hyoid membrane. T Placed over the great cornua of the hyoid bone. U Thyroid gland. V Posterior portion of trachea. MUSCLES I K Great cornua of the hyoid bone. L Superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage. M Thyro-hyoid and sterno-hyoid muscles. 0 Hyoglossus. P Articular facet for thyroid on cricoid cartilage. R Articular facet for cricoid on thyroid cartilage. S Thyroid gland. T Trachea. V First ring of trachea. Z Suspensory ligament of thyroid. MUSCLES mucous membrane overlapping the right. 1 False vocal cord. K Arytenoid cartilage. L Arytenoideus. M Ventricle of the larynx. N Placed over the processus vocalis. 0 Median glosso-epiglottic fold. P Epiglottis. VESSELS a Inferior thyroid artery. | c Superior laryngeal. b A laryngeal branch of inferior thyroid. ] NEBVES 1 Recurrent laryngeal. | 5 Branch to arytenoideus lateralis and 2 Branch to inferior constrictor. 1 thyro-arytenoideus. y Branch of communication with superior | 6 Branch to arytenoideus posticus. laryngeal. j 7 Superior laryngeal. 4 Branch to arytenoideus. I