PLATE LXV. SUPERFICIAL VIEW OF VISCERA WITH THE ABDOMINAL PARIETES REMOVED. In the dissection here represented, the abdomen was opened by a longitudinal incision along the linea alba, and a transverse one opposite the umbilicus, taking care to preserve the falciform ligament of the liver when turning back the upper right flap. For convenience of description the abdomen is usually divided into nine regions by two horizontal lines—one drawn across the abdomen at the level of the ninth rib, and another drawn across at the level of the highest point of the iliac ci:est—and by two vertical lines which are drawn upwards perpendicularly to the middle of Poupart's ligament, striking the costal arch about the tip of the eighth rib. Professor Cunningham, in dealing with the delimitation of the regions of the abdomen, suggests that, while keeping the mid-Poupart perpendicular lines, the t\ o horizontal should be drawn at somewhat different levels than they are at present. Taking into consideration the natural division of the abdomen into (1) the part under cover of the ribs, (2) that in front of the iliac bones, and (3) the narrow portion between them devoid of skeletal support, he draws the upper or subcostal line at a level coinciding with the lowest point of the tenth costal arch—the lowest point of the fixed ribs which is situated in front of the lateral line of the trunk, and is easily ascertained. This plane passes through the upper part of the body of the third lumbar. The lower or intertubercular line passes through the level of the highest point of the iliac crest seen from the front—that is, between the prominent tubercles which exist at the upper end of the strong bars of bone running from the crest down to the acetabulum on either side. These tubercles are better marked than the anterior superior spines. The only objection to this plane is that it cuts off the upper 1} inch of the iliac fossa and gives it to the lumbar region ; it passes through the middle of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The line passing through the anterior superior spines is avoided, because the plane drawn through them would cut the sacrum and thus place the upper part of the pelvis and the greater portion of the iliac fossa in the umbilical zone. The accompanying diagrams show the viscera cut in making a frozen section through the right and left mid-Poupart lines, and are copied from Professor Cunning- ham's paper.' (See next page.) Bight. 1 Liver to right of gall-bladder. 2 The right wall of gall-bladder, cut. 3 Kidney, two-thirds to right, one-third to left. 4 Hepatic flexure of colon, just above beginning of transverse. 5 Termination of ileum. This is the only portion of the small intestine cut. a Subcostal line. h Intertubercular line. c ' Highest point of crest' line. ' Professor Cunningham, ' Delimitation of the Regions Academy, vol. xi., and Journal of Anat. and Phijs. vol. xxvii. Left. 1 Spleen, one-third to right, two-thirdd to left. 2 Stomach, cut through the greater por- tion of its length. 8 Liver, cut 1^ inch from left ex- tremity. 4 Kidney ; the greater portion is to right of section. 5 Colon, cut in four places :— a Summit of splenic flexure. h Commencement of descending, c Termination of transverse. d Sigmoid flexure. 6 Coils of small intestine, of the Abdomen,' Trans. Royal Irish