PLATE XXXI. THE POPLITEAL SPACE AND GASTROCNEMIUS. In this plate the fascia over the popliteal space has been removed and the space cleaned of all the fatty packing material, with which the lymphatic glands have also been removed. (See Plate XXXII for diagram of cutaneous nerve supply.) The popliteal space extends over the lower third of the posterior aspect of the femur, which is included in the bifurcation of the linea aspera, and about the upper sixth of the tibia. It is a lozenge-shaped space whose boundaries are— Externally.—Biceps, outer head of gastrocnemius, and plantaris. Internally.—Semitendinosus, semimembranosus, gracilis, sartorius, and adductor magnus, inner head of gastrocnemius. The Floor.— Femur, posterior ligament of the knee, popliteal notch of the tibia, popliteal fascia covering over the popliteus muscle. The whole is covered with the deep fascia of the leg, which is very strong, and has in addition to the longitudinal fibres some strong transverse fibres bracing the tendons together. The contents of the space are— Popliteal artery—its articular and muscular branches. Popliteal vein and short saphenous vein. Internal and external popliteal nerves, their articular and muscular branches, and in the upper part of the space the small sciatic, which pierces the fascia to become cutaneous about midway down, and deep down the articular branch of the ohturator nerve to the knee. Bursa may be divided into three internal and three external:— Outside. 1 Under external head of gastro- cnemius communicates with joint. 2 Under popliteus tendon an ex- tension of synovial membrane of joint. 3 One between the biceps and ex- ternal lateral ligament does not communicate with joint. Inside. 1 Under internal head of gastro- cnemius communicates with joint. 2 Between semimembranosus and back of tibia. 3 Between semimembranosus and inner head of gastrocnemius often communicates with joint. Lymphatic glands, which are central, and receive the lymph from the heel and posterior part of the foot.