36 PLATE XVI IT. MUSCLES AND FASCIA A The pectineal portion of the fascia lata. The letter is placed over the pectineus muscle. A' This letter is placed over the adductor brevis. B The iliac portion of the fascia lata. The letter is placed over the sartorius muscle. C The falciform edge or process of the fascia lata. D This inward prolongation of the falci- form edge is known as Hey's liga- ment. E Femoral sheath. F Poupart's ligament. G Lymphatic glands (femoral set). H The cord. T Lymphatic glands (inguinal set). I External oblique. VESSELS a Saphenous vein. b Placed on sheath of vessels over femo- ral vein. c Accessory saphenous vein. d Superficial external pudic vessels. e Superficial epigastric artery. / Superficial epigastric vein. g Superficial circumflex iliac artery. h Superficial circumflex iliac vein. i Saphenous branch of femoral artery. NERVES 1 Ilio-inguinal. 4 External cutaneous. 2 Crural branch of genito-crural. 5 Twigs from the internal cutaneous 3 Middle cutaneous. piercing the fascia lata. Lymphatic Glands.—These are usually divided into two sets, the inguinal, placed along the line of Poupart's ligament, and the femoral, placed along the saphenous vein. The femoral glands receive the lymph from the dorsum of the foot, the inner side, and front of the legs and thigh. The inguinal maybe subdivided into three groups, an inner, which receives the lymph from the skin of penis, scrotum or labia, anus, and ischio- rectal fossa ; a middle, which receives the lymph from the lower part of the front of the abdomen; and an external, which receives the lymph from the buttock and flank. The femoral sheath is a funnel-shaped structure, which is derived from the trans- versalis fascia in front and the iliac fascia behind as the artery passes under Poupart's ligament; it is divided into three compartments by means of fibrous septa, an outer one for the femoral artery, a middle for the femoral vein, and an inner one, which is very short, containing the lymphatics which pass from the glands in the groin to the deep inguinal lymphatic glands. It is called the crural canal, and through it a femoral hernia passes when present. This canal is bounded above by Poupart's ligament; below by the pectineus muscle covered by the pectineal portion of the fascia lata, and the ramus of the pubes ; internally by Gimbernat's ligament ; and externally by the middle com- partment of the femoral sheath containing the femoral vein. A hernia passing down the canal is thus covered by (1) peritoneum ; (2) septum crurale, which is continuous with the subperitoneal tissue ; (3) fascia transversalis ; (4) cribriform fascia ; (5) super- ficial fascia and skin.