129 6th, The yellow and mild bilious fever mutually propo- xate each other. We conceive a belief in the unity ot these two states of fever to be deeply interesting to humanity, inas- much as it may lead patients to an early application for medical aid and physiciiuis to the use of the same remedies for each of them, varying those remedies only according to the force of the disorder. It is no objection to this opinion that, that state of bilious fever called the yellow, fever, is a modern appear- ance in our country. From certain revolutions in the atraos- ohere as yet observed only but not accounted for by Physi- cians, diseases have in all ages and countries alternately risen .and fallen in their force and danger. At present a constitution of the atmosphere prevails in the United States which dispo- ses to a fever ot a highly inflammatory character. It began in the year 1793. Its duration in other countries has been from one to fifty years. It is not peculiar to the common bilious fever ;to have put on mor-e inflammatory symptoms than in former years. There is scarcely a disease which has not been affect- ed in a similar way by the late change in our atmosphere and .;hat does not call for a greater force of depleting remedies hhan were required to cure them before the year 1793, 7th. And lastly. The yellow fever affects the system more? han once, in common with the bilious fever. Of this there • were* 'many mstahces dining the prevalence o our late- cpidc^ mick. The fever which lately prevailed our city appears from the documents which accompany this letter to have been derived jj-omthe following sources: j’.sill “a constitution of the atmosphere which prevails in the' jmted States and disposes to a fever (the bilious or yellow fe- ?irer) of a highly inflammatory character. It is this constitution, "jffectuated by the marsh effluvia or vegetable putrefaction being diffused through the air, which in the first place gives rise to, jid afterwards renders epidemick or general the bilious or yel- cow fever, as those gentlemen in what follows of their reply rvisely allow. Those who wish to be satisfied that this fever is not contagious, will do well to pay particular attention to the .-ases instanced in the above letter. R