130 1st. Putrid Exhalations from the gutters, streets, ponds and marshy grounds in the neighbourhood of the city. From some one of these sources we derive a case attended by Dr. Cald- weil on the 9th of June—one attended by Dr. Pascalis on the of July, and by two cases attended by Dr. Kush and Dr. ^ ysick on the 5th and 15th of the same month ; and also most ot those cases of yellow fever, which appeared in the northern parts of the city, and near Kensington bridge, in the months ot August, September and Octobel*. Wo are the more satis- fied ot the truth of this source of the fever from the numerous accounts we hate received of the prevalence of the same fever ^d from the same causes, during the late autumn in Nevr- York and various parts of New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Mary- land, Virginia and South Carolina, not only in sea ports but inland towns. The peculiar disposition of these exhalations to produce disease and death was evinced early in the season by the mortality which ptevailed among the cats, and during every part of the seasdn by the mortality which prevailed in many parts of our country among horses. The disease which proved so fatal to the latter animals is known among the far- mers by the name of the yellow water. We conceive it to be a modification of the yellow fever. 2ndly. A second source of our late fever appears to have been derived from the noxious air emitted from the hold of the now Navigation, capt. LinstrOom) which arrived with a heal- thy crew, from Marseilles on the 25th of July, and discharged her cargo at Latimer’s w'harf, after a passage of eighty days* We are led to ascribe the principal part of the disease which prevailed in the south end of the city to this noxious air, and that for the following reasons : 1st. The fever appeared first on board this vessel and in its neighbourhood, affecting a great number of persons nearly at the same time, and 6o remote from each other that it could noi be propagated by Contagion. 2dly. 7’here was in the hold of this vessel a quantity of ve- getable matters, such as prunes, almonds, olives, capers, and several other articles, some of which were in a state of putre- faction.