73 The remittent bilious yellow fever neither pi- ties helpless infancy, nor reverences the decre- pitude of age ; but its chief delight is to jostle, from the stage of life, the young and vigorous. The many-headed monster, armed with destruc- tion and wo, wantons in the citadel of life : and now, Anthropophagi like, without warning or premonition, implants his merciless dagger; and now under the garb of innocence, gambols in the blushing cheek of health. The yellow fe- ver is as fatal when with the investiture of an in- termittent, as when habited in its regular dress. Having explored its cause and origin, we may trace out its nature. Dr. Rush. “ The fevers generated by putrid cabbage, mentioned by Dr. Rogers, and by putrid flax mentioned by Dr. !^mmerman, ■were both contageous. Dr. Lind ascribes the yellow fever every whefe to marsh or vege- table exhalations; and this fe- ver, we know spreads by con- tagion. Dr. Lind, jun. esta- blishes the contagious nature of the marsh fever which pre- vailed in Bengal in the year 1762. I shall transcribe his words upon this subject. “ Al- though marsh miasmata (says he) first bring on the disease, yet contagion presently spreads it, and' renders it more epide- mick. Thus the Drake India- man continued free from the disorder for two weeks toge- ther, when she had no commu- K The AiUhor, An endemick is a disease, that afflicts several people toge- ther in the same countxy where it reigns, arising from local cir- cumstances, or a peculiar con- dition of the air. It cannot be carried from one country to anothei', by the means of bo- dies and cloths. It affects more or less all within its own peri- phery. It cannot be carried, beyond its own atmosphere, by bodies diseased with it. No disease, arising from marsh effluvia, can be communicated beyond the atmosphere charged with these effluvia. Every dis- ease arising from marsh effluvia, from the gentle intermittent to the furious yellow fever inclu- sive, then is endemick. It does not appear, that any of the cases, in the onpo^uf?