74 lucation with the other ships ; whereas as soon as the disorder was brought on board, many were seized with it within a few days in such a manner as to leave no room to entertain the least doubt concerning its pestilential nature.” Dr. Clark mentions a con- tagious malignant fever from marsh miasmata, which prevail- ed at Prince’s Island in the year 1771, and which afterwards infected, the Grenville India- man. The contagious pesti- lential fever in France, so ac- curately described by Reveri- us, was produced by an exha- lation from putrid vegetables, particularly hemp and flax. Even intermittents, the most frequent and most numerous offspring of the marsh exhala- tion, are contagious Of this there are many proofs in prac- tical authors. Blanchi de- scribes an intermittent which was highly contagious at Wol- fenbuttle in the year 1666. Dr. Clark mentions a number of cases in which this mild spe- cies of fever was propagated by contagion. Dr. Cleghorn has established the contagious nature of inter- mittents by many facts. Af- ter mentioning numerous in- stances of their having spread in this way, he says, “ These tertians have as good a right to be called contagious as the mea- sles, small-pox, or any other disease.” &c. Vol. 3, /^. 160. column, communicated them- selves by means of the diseased bodies beyond the circumfer- ence of the atmosphere impreg- nated by the vegetable exhala- tions ; then if they did not, which is pretty obvious, act be- yond the limits of the inquinat* ed atmosphere, the probabilitv is, that the vegetable or marsh effluvia wafted through the air did the mischief, and not the intercourse of bodies. That a ship’s crew was free from a disease this week, is no just argument, if they be infect- ed next, that it must be b) means of one diseased body communicating it to another; the contaminated air may have enlarged its limits—a part cu- lar direction of the wind may have conveyed the bad air to the ship. It happening poste- riorly to a communication with the diseased, is no argument, except at the same time it be proved that this crew was with- out the control of the ill-con- ditioned air. Marsh and vege- table effluvia smite at the dis- tance of miles, this no physici- an doubts. “ These diseases (speaking of intermittents) make their first appearance in February and August particularly ; iho' sometimes they appear sooner or later, according as the air is more or less disposed to pro- duce them, which, of course renders them more or less epi-| demick.” P.51, Dr. Sydenham.