128 3d. The symptoms of the bilious fever are the same in their nature. I'hey tlilfcr only in their degree. It is no objection to this assertion that their is sometimes a deficiency or absence of bile ill the yellow fever. This symptom is the effect only of a torpid state of the liver, produced by the greater force of the disease acting upon that part of the body. By means of depleting remedies this torpor is removed and the disease thereby made to assume its original and simple bilious cha- racter. 4th. The common bilious and yellow fever often run into each other. By depleting remedies the most malignant yel- low fever may be changed into a common bilious fever and by tonic remedies improperly applied, the common bilious fever may be made to assume the symptoms of the malignant vel- low fever. *5th. The common bilious and yellow fevers are alike con- tagious, under certain circumstances of the weather and of predisposition in the body. That the common bilious fever i» contagious we assert, from the observations of some of us, and from the authority of many Physicians who have long com* manded the highest respect in medicine. * This argument, the spirit of which states this and the bi- lious fever to be contagious, appears to be theoffspring of conjec- ture and a biased education. Whatever the exertions and per- spicacity of some individuals of Philadelphia may have explor- ed I cannot determine- But, in my candid opinion, the obser- vations, which deceived them into the persuasion that the bili- ous fever is infectious, are, somewhatdefective. Many physi- cians of eminence have asserted, in their writings, the above fever to be contagious ; but they have neglected to accompa- ny those conjectures with tributary facts to support and give strength to them- There is not, so far as my reading extends, one solitary case of a contagious bilious fever in the records of medicine ; I say not one case wherein contagion has been, or can be proved. And here, reader, my opinion is propugned and countenanced by Cullen, Sydenham and many more of the most learned and experienced of physicians. Bilious fevers spread by what those learned gentlemen in the latter part of the following paragraph