39 which have been rubbed through a sieve. On this place the other tench and proceed in the same manner. Pour into the pie dish the fish bone liquor, cover with paste, brush it over with the yolk of a raw egg and bake in rather a quick oven for J an hour. EELS AU CAPORAL.—ANGUILLES AU CAPORAL. Ingredients.—1 carp, 1 eel, 12 large oysters, 6 anchovies, 2 dozen button onions, 4 whole onions, a bouquet of thyme, parsley, basil, and marjoram, 1 pint of good stock, 1J pints of port wine, 2oz. of butter, flour, 3 drops of essence of anchovy, squeeze of lemon juice, Jib. of mushrooms, fried croutons. Bone the carp and put the bones into a stewpan with the 4 onions, bouquet of herbs, stock, 1 pint of wine, and anchovies, put the stewpan on the fire, let the contents boil for i an hour, then strain the liquor off. Now put the carp into a stewpan with the eel (washed and blanched as for matelotte), button onions, and strained liquor, set the pan on the fire to simmer very gently for 1 hour and then take it off. Put the butter in a saucepan, melt it and dredge into it as much flour as will dry it up, then add the stock from the carp and eel, the remainder of the port wine, and keep stirring till the sauce boils. Boil for 3 minutes, rub it through a tammy and put it to the fish, give one boil up then add the oysters, previously blanched and bearded, with their liquor, strained, simmer for 4 minutes, add the anchovy essence and lemon at the last minute. Garnish with grilled mushrooms and croutons, and serve very hot. EELS SPITCHCOCKED.—FAMOUS RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 eels, Jib. of butter, 1 spoonful each of chopped shallot, thyme, sage, parsley, seasoning of black pepper and salt, yolks of 2 eggs, bread crumbs. Skin and bone the eels and wash them carefully, and cut them in neat pieces of 2 or 3 inches long. Put the butter into a stewpan with the shallot, thyme, sage, parsley, and seasoning, put it on a stove till the butter is melted then remove the pan from the fire. Now put in the yolks