77 FORCEMEAT. Ingredients.—|lb. of calf’s udder, |lb. of Panada, lOoz. of fillets of chicken, a pinch of salt, pepper and nutmeg, 1 whole egg and the yolks of 2, 1 tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce. Tie up the udder with twine in the shape of a sausage, put it into a stewpan and stew gently till quite done, take it out and allow it time to cool and get firm. Then cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar, next rub it through a wire sieve, with a wooden spoon. For the Panada take the crumb of 2 fresh French Id. rolls and steep in tepid milk for 15 minutes, take it out, put it into a napkin and squeeze it tightly in order to remove the milk from it. Now put the crumb into a stewpan with 2oz. of fresh butter, a pinch of salt and two large spoonfuls of well flavoured white stock. Put the stewpan on the stove, and stir with a wooden spoon to prevent the panada burning. When it assumes the appearance of paste and is quite dry, add the yolks of 3 eggs, mix well and turn it out on a plate to cool. Pound the chicken in a mortar and pass it through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon. Now pound the udder, Panada, and chicken, all together, in a mortar, and when thoroughly mixed, add the salt, pepper, and nutmeg, 1 whole egg, yolk of 2 and the Bechamel sauce (sea Sauces). Pound once more, thoroughly, this mixture, and put it into a basin and keep in a cool place till required for use. BOUDIN OF VEAL.—BOUDIN DE VEAU. Ingredients.—fib. of lean raw veal, £ a pint of water, flour, 2oz. of butter, pepper and salt, a small piece of shallot, a dust of nutmeg, £ a pint of cream, 2 eggs, truffles. Put the water into a stewpan with loz. butter, and a pinch of salt. When it boils, stir into it enough flour to make a thick paste. Put it by to get cold. Pound the veal in a mortar and add to this as much paste as there is veal, work all together in the mortar seasoning with pepper, salt, nut- meg, and shallot. When thoroughly mixed, work in the eggs, and remainder of butter, pounding all the time, add the cream, and pass through a coarse sieve. Butter some tin moulds, arrange some sliced truffles cut in stars at the