110 the pigeons with, the pepper, salt, and herbs, and put them in the pie. Cut the eggs in slices and add them. Cover in the pie and bake for 2 hours. When done carefully remove the top crust and pour in the stock. If to be eaten cold cover the top with chopped meat jelly and replace the cover. RABBIT A LA CHIPOLATA.—LAPIN A LA CHIPOLATA. Ingredients.—2 rabbits, bacon, 1 pint of stock, 6 onions, a faggot of herbs, 1 blade of mace, JUb. of fat pork, such as is used for pickling, 1 an ounce of butter, flour, 1 glass of sberry, juice of half a lemon, a pinch of sugar, 12 hard boiled eggs. Cut up the rabbits as for a fricassee and blanch them, when they come to a boil, remove them from the fire, pour off the hot water, then put them into cold water. Take of! the second skin and trim them neatly. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with bacon, put in the rabbits, stock, onions, and herbs. Now cut the pork which should have previously boiled for \ an hour in small square pieces and add it to the contents of the stewpan, cover over with more bacon and a sheet of paper and set the pan on a slow stove to simmer for 1 hour. Strain the liquor from the rabbit, skimming it care- full}'' from fat. Melt the butter in a stewpan and add to ::it as much flour as will dry it up. RABBITS A LA WINCHESTER.—LAPINS A LA WINCHESTER. Ingredients.—2 rabbits, forcemeat, any trimmings of poultry, 2 onions, faggot of herbs, 3 bay leaves, 2 lemons, bacon, 1 pint of white stock, a few truffles or mushrooms. Bone the rabbits and spread them with the forcemeat and shape them as much as possible into the shape of a chicken prepared for boiling. Put the bones into a stewpan with the poultry trimmings, onions, herbs and bay leaves. Put in the rabbits. Peel the lemons, slice them and put them on the rabbits, cover with bacon, add the stock and put the pan or. the fire to simmer very slowly for 11 hours. Take out the rabbits Strain and skim the liquor they were cooked in, add the truffles or mushroom, and make the sauce hot. Pour it over the rabbits and serve.