S(j SPICED BEEF.—BCEUF EPICE. Ingredients.—81bs. thin flank of beef, I41bs. common salt, 2oz. of bay salt, 2.oz. of saltpetre, lib. coarse sugar, 4 an oz. ground cloves, | an oz of powdered mace, \ an oz. of black pepper, 4 an oz. of ground allspice, 4 an oz. of thyme, 1 ground nutmeg, 3oz. of dripping, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 1 turnip, a few leaves of celery, sufficient good stock to cook the beef in. Remove the skin and bones from the beef, pound all the spices together, and pass them through a fine wire sieve. Rub the meat well with this pickle for a quarter of an hour every day for a fortnight, turning the meat every day. When required for use soak the beef for a short time, roll it up into a neat shape and tie it up in a buttered cloth very tight with tape. Slice the vegetables, place them in fhe bottom of a stewpan, put the meat on them, fill up with the stock and stew very gently for 5 or 6 hours till quite tender. Then press it well till quite cold, remove the cloth, brush the beef well over with liquid glaze and send to cable garnished with aspic jelly. BOAR’S HEAD.—TETE DE SANGRIER. Ingredients.—The head of a bacon hog, 41bs. of common salt, 4oz. of saltpetre, | a lb. moist sugar, 4 an oz. of cloves, 4 an oz of mace, 4 an oz. of juniper berries, and a handful of thyme, marjoram, and basil, 41bs. of forcemeat, 4 a bottle of truffles, £lb. of Pistachio nuts. Sufficient good stock to cover the head. Any trimmings of meat and game, 2 calves’ feet, pepper and salt, 2 carrots, 2 onions, a handful of parsley, a few leaves of celery or celery seed. Cut the head deep into the shoulders, and bone it care- fullv, beginning at the throat. Remove the tongue and rub it and the head well with the above pickle. When this is done, turn it over each day in the brine for a fortnight, and keep in a cool place. When the head is ready for dressing take it out of the brine, wash it thoroughly in cold water, then drain and dry it with a cloth. Trim off any uneven pieces from the cheeks, cut them into long narrow fillets, as also the tongue, slice the truffles, and blanch the pistacaio nuts.. Now proceed to line the inside of the head with a