104 an inch. Butter a raised pie mould and line it with the paste. Bone the woodcock, snipe or grouse (or any game in season) cut them up in convenient pieces. Take the livers, parboil them, chop them up very fine, adding their weight in veal and bacon. Pound the whole through a mortar adding 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs soaked in stock, the onion, spices, herbs, pepper and salt, and 2oz. of butter. When this mixture is thoroughly pounded, pass through a hair sieve, and work into it the yolks of two eggs. Fill up the pie with the pieces of game, mushrooms (cooked in lemon juice), truffles (cooked in white wine) and fill up the cavities with force- meat. Put on a cover of paste, making a hole in the centre, place a buttered paper on the top and bake in a moderate oven for 4 hours. Remove from the oven, and pour in through the hole some good liquid meat jelly (see Jellies). When the pie is quite cold and ready to serve, take off the cover and put a layer of chopped aspic jelly on the top. This recipe is suitable for all game and poultry pies, using one or more birds according to the size of the pie. When the pie is required very rich the breast pieces of the game or poultry should be larded. Care should be taken that the paste fits the mould exactly and crimp the edges at the top with a paste cutter. DRESSED HARE.—LIEVRE. OLD ENGLISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 hare, 1 quart mild ale, bread crumbs, 2 anchovies, \ a shallot, some thyme and parsley, 3 spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 1 yolk of egg, a little finely chopped suet, 1 glass of port wine, flour and butter, slice of bread. Prepare the hare as for roasting and wash it well with the ale. Make a stuffing with the bread crumbs, anchovies, washed, boned, and chopped, minced shallot, thyme and parsley, chop the liver of the hare, moisten all with one Bpoonful of the ketchup and mix all together with the egg and suet, stuff the hare with this and a thick slice of white bread. Now strain the ale carefully, and put it under the hare to baste it whilst roasting till it is one half reduced. Next baste the hare well with butter and a little flour, and when the hare is cooked add to the ale the remainder <d the ketchup, the port wine, and thicken with flour and out-