124 the above with the shallots, herbs, bay leaves, mace and mushrooms, add J a pint of common stock, and set the pan on a stove and let it draw down gently till it comes to a glaze at the bottom of the stewpan. Now add the other i pint of common stock and when that is drawn down put in as much rich stock as will fili your stewpan. For every quart of cullis allow 2oz. of butter, put that into another stewpan, let it melt, then dredge in as much flour as will dry it up. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon over the stove and then add the cullis stock little by little at a time till it becomes the proper consistency. Let it boil for a few minutes, then strain it through a tammy into a basin, and stir it several times with a spoon to ensure its being smooth, use as required. In winter this sauce will keep good for a week, not more than 3 days in summer. CALF’S HEAD SAUCE.—A L’IRLANDAISE. Ingredients.—Jib. of butter, 3 or 4 chopped shallots, a handful of chopped parsley, same of mushrooms, and a bouquet of orange and lemon thyme, sweet and knotted marjoram, a very little basil, 2 large chopped onions, Jib. of lean ham, J pint of stock, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of Madeira or sherry, a squeeze of lemon juice, cayenne pepper. Put the butter into a stewpan with the herbs, mushrooms, and onions. Add the ham minced very fine, and the stock. Put the pan on the stove and let it simmer for one hour. Now put in the flour and stir it about for a minute or two with a wooden spoon. When this is done add the stock your calf’s head was boiled in, also the Madeira, and keep stirring till the sauce boils, let it boil a few minutes, then tammy it, and just before serving add the lemon juice and cayenne. FRENCH WHITE SAUCE.—BECHAMEL. Ingredients.—2 pints of white stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, 3 mushrooms, whole pepper and salt to taste, 2 cloves, 1 blade of mace, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 pint of cream, a sprig of parsley, 1 onion, 1 carrot, A a head of celery, $ a bay leaf. 4oz. of fresh butter.