64 ^parsley, 1 pint of common stock, 1 gill of white wine, pepper and salt, mushrooms, croutons. After the hearts are cleaned, cut them into moderately thick slices, dredge each with flour, and lay them in an earthenware jar, with the ham, vegetables, stock, and season- ing. Let all stew very gently for 3 hours. Remove the parsley and onion, skim off any fat and add the wine and lemon juice. Place the slices of heart in the centre of a dish, pom' the gravy over and garnish alternately with fried croutons and mushrooms, both of which should be as similar in size as possible. LAMB CUTLETS IN ASPIC.—COTELETTES D’AGNEAU A LTMPERATRICE. Ingredients.-—31bs. of the best end of neck of lamb (or more according io numbers), 1 sliced onion, carrot, leek, parsnip, a few leaves of celery, ,6 peppercorns, a bunch of herbs, h a pint of rich stock, a few truffles, aspic jelly. After trimming the neck of lamb from unnecessarv fat and skin, tie it up with a string and place it in a stewpan with a little lard. Put all the vegetables and seasoning in the bottom of the. stewpan, and on these iplace the meat. Put the cover on the pan, and let the contents fry for } of an hour. Now add the stock, place a buttered paper over the meat, and cook gently for an hour. Pour the stock constantly over the meat, adding a little more now and again when that becomes reduced. Take the meat out of the pan, remove the string.put it on a dish with a moderately heavy weight over it. When quite cold cut into cutlets of a neat shape, trim off any fat and chop the bone at the end to about 3 inches long. Have ready some aspic jelly (see Jellies), pom a thin coating of this on to each cutlet When this is set, make a pretty pattern of sliced truffle, white of hard boiled egg, cooked vegetables, such as carrots and French beans, and, when this garnish is to your taste, pom* a little more aspic over to set it. The cutlets can be arranged on a border mould of aspic, the centre tilled up with cooked peas, French beans, or a macedoine seasoned with oil, vinegar, and pepper. Or a well mixed salad masked with mayonaise sauce and prettily ornament**! makes an appropriate garnish.