94 pinch of cayenne pepper and cloves, 2 raw eggs. Chop the veal very fine, and the pork, add the other in- igredients and work in thoroughly the eggs. Put the mix- ture in a plain mould previously buttered. Put a cover on the mould and ste^m for two hours. Now put it into the oven for a short time to dry, leaving the oven door open. When cold turn out of the mould, cut in thin slices and garnish with good meat jellies (see Jellies). This is a very nice supper dish, and resembles boned turkey. GALANTINE of yeal.—galantine. Ingredients.—Breast of veal, Jib. fat bacon or ham, Jib. of boiled tongue, powdered spice, sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, some truffles, and gherkins, 1 calf’s foot, 2 onions, 2 carrots, a bunch of thyme, marjoram, parsley and bay leaf, 2 cloves, 3 peppercorns. Bone the veal, carefully remove all gristle and super- fluous fat and trim it. Cut off lib. of the meat and pound it with the bacon in a mortar seasoning with spice, pepper and salt. Pass this mixture through a wire sieve. Now cut the tongue in inch square pieces, and J a dozen or more truffles into four pieces. Flatten the veal well out, lay it on a table and sprinkle with powdered spice, pepper and salt. Spread over it a layer of the pounded meat, then a layer of the tongue, truffles, and sliced gherkin. Roll it up neatly like a roly poly, and tie it up tightly in a cloth Put the trimmings and bones of the veal in a large sauce- pan, the calf’s foot chopped up, vegetables, bouquet of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Cover with water sufficient to cook the galantine in. When the contents boil put in the galan- tine and let it boil for two and a half hours. When it has partially cooled remove the cloth, tie it up again and put it between 2 dishes with a moderate weight on it. When quite cold remove the cloth, glaze the galantine, and garnish with savoury jelly which can be made from the liquor in which it has been boiled. FKICANDEAU OF VEAL.—FRICANDEAU DE VEAU. Ingredients.—2 or 31bs. fillet of veal, lardoons, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 3 leeks, J a head of celery, a bunch of herbs, 3 peppercorns, 1 pint of good stock.