137 Put the flour in a saucepan with the butter, and mix well together, add the stock, and stir well on the fire for 7 or 3 minutes, then put in the ham, mushrooms and truffles. Boil for 20 minutes and strain through a sieve, add the eggs well beaten up, the cream, and put on the fire for a minute, but •do not let the contents boil. It will then be ready to serve. YELOUTE SAUCE.—'YELOUTE. Ingredients.—1 young fowl, a knuckle of veal, 2 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 sliced onion, 1 cut carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, Jib. of fresh butter, 2oz. of flour, white stock. Cut up the fowl in neat joints, the ham in dice and put them with the veal, carrot, and onion, into a stewpan, mois- ten with a pint of white stock, keep tossing on the fire for J an hour, being careful that the contents do not take colour. Now add sufficient stock to cover the whole and simmer gently for 2 hours. Skim and strain the sauce, and reduce it by boiling quickly till it is nearly a jelly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix the flour with it without letting the mixture take any colour. Strain the veloute gradually into it. Now set the stewpan at the edge of the fire to simmer for 1 hour and a half, skimming the contents carefully. When this is done turn out the sauce into a basin, stirring it till cold. Put aside till wanted. It will keep good for several days, but must for this purpose be warmed up every day VENETIAN SAUCE.—SAUCE SAN MARCO. Ingredients.—1 calf’s kidney, 2 tablespoonfuls of pis- tachio nuts, juice of J a lemon, pepper, salt, and powdered spices to taste. Roast the kidney, preserving the gravy, mince it finely, and pound it in a mortar with the pistachio nuts. Pass it through a hair sieve, then put the mixture in a saucepan, moisten it with its own gravy, and the lemon juice, season with salt, pepper, and spices. Bring the sauce to boiling point, strain and serve. If there is not sufficient gravy from the kidney to make sauce, add as much ordinary gravy as required. Serve with veal, sweetbread or poultry.