70 PATTIES.—BOUCHEES ROYALE. Ingredients.—1 large spoonful of cockscombs, 1 spoonful of cocks kernels, 1 of button mushrooms, 1 of truffles, 2 large tablespoonfuls of sweetbread, a little white wine, \ a pint of allemande [sauce, 3oz. of butter, 3 teaspoonfuis of lemon juice, 1 pint thin white sauce, or chicken broth, pepper and salt. Line as many patty pans as required with good puff paste (see Pastry), cut out as many rounds of paste as there are patties to cover. Fill the patties with rice and put them with the rounds into the oven for about 10 minutes, being careful not to let them get coloured. Now take out the rice and fill each patty with a ragout made as follows: Scald and clean the cockscombs and boil them in i a pint of white sauce, whilst doing this put the cocks’ kernels into cold water in a stewpan. Stand it by the side of a slack fire to remove the blood, do not ;let the water get warm. When the kernels whiten drain them on a sieve, and put them in a small stewpan with 2oz. of butter, and 2 teaspoon- fuis of lemon juice, moisten with i a pint of white sauce, or chicken broth, and set them to simmer gently on a slow fire, for 10 minutes, when they will be done. Drain them on a napkin. Then wash and peel the mushrooms and put them in a little saucepan with loz. of butter, 1 teaspoon- ful of lemon juice, and a dust of pepper and salt. Put the lid on the saucepan, and cook them slowly for 20 minutes, shak- ing the pan frequently. When done remove from the fire. Boil the truffles in a little wine, now soak, blanch, and trim the sweetbread, and boil in water for f of an horn-. When all this is done cut the cockscombs, kernels, mush- rooms, truffles, and sweetbread, in the shape of small scol- lops, or olives. Put them all in a stewpan with the alle- mande sauce (see Sauces) toss them for a few minutes o\er the fire and fill each patty with the mixture. Place the round of paste on the top of each. Heat in the oven for a minute or two and serve. Note.—A vol au vent can be filled with a similar ragout, and the white of chicken, out in scollops is a nice addition.