57 cover with a buttered paper, put it into a saucepan with a little boiling water and steam gently for 20 minutes. Turn cut carefully and serve with truffle sauce (see Sauces). CHICKEN CROQUETTES.—CROQUETTES DE YOLAILLE. Ingredients.—The white meat of a roast fowl, Jr the quan- tity of mushrooms, truffles, and tongue, \ pint of Bechamel sauce, pepper, and salt, loz. flour, 1 egg, bread crumbs. Mince the chicken (freed from skin), mushrooms, truffles, and ham very finely. Stir the Bechamel sauce (see Sauces) on the fire till thick, then add the mixture. Spread on a dish and when quite cold shape the mixture either in the shape of balls, tiny cutlets, or pears, in this latter case stick a stalk of parsley into each to imitate the stalk of a pear. Roll lightly in flour, brush over with beaten up egg, have the bread crumbs on a plate or paper, and cover the cro- quettes with these. Fry in boiling fat for a minute or two and send to table garnished with fried parsley. CHICKEN A LA MARENGO.—POULET A LA MARENGO. Ingredients.—1 chicken or more as required, A pint ot salad oil, 2 onions, 3 tomatoes, a bunch of herbs, 2 pints prepared button mushrooms, J pint white wine, 1 pint brown sauce, clove of garlic, fried croutons, pepper and salt,, the juice of 1 lemon. Cut up the chicken in neat joints as for a fricasee, put it into a Saute pan with the oil, sliced onions and tomatoes, bunch of herbs, and pepper and salt. Let all the contents fry for 20 minutes. Drain off nearly all the oil, remove the bunch of herbs, add the mushrooms, white wine, and brown sauce (see Sauces). Simmer for b an horn*. Skim the fat carefully, add the garlic finely minced and the lemon juice, lake out the chicken, arrange on a silver dish in a pyramid keeping the best pieces for the top, boil up the sauce, pour over it and garnish with fried croutons and crayfish, or croutons and fried eggs, these latter should bo broken into boiling oil and made into the shape of a ball by turning them over and over again with a wooden spoon.