71 FILLETS OF PARTRIDGES.—FILETS DE PERDRIX. Ingredient?.—i partridges or more, according to the size of the entree required, 'Jib. of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of truffles, 3 tablespconfuls of mushrooms, salt. Take the breasts from the birds and cut each breast in four fillets, trim them neatly and as much to the same shape as possible. Butter a baking tin and lay the fillets in it. Season with salt. Place a buttered paper over them and put the tin in the oven till they are sufficiently done but not dry. Make the sauce with the remainder of the birds as for salmi’s (see Sauces) in which cook the truffles and mush- rooms. Drain the fillets from the butter, arrange them on a dish “ en couronne ” with a heart-shaped crouton of fried bread between each, put the truffles and mushrooms in the centre of the dish, pour the sauce round the entree and serve. CHARTREUSE OF PARTRIDGES.—CHARTREUSE DE PERDRIX. Ingredients.—Carrots, turnips, 1 large cabbage, a small quantity of ham or bacon, loz. butter, pepper, and salt, 1 brace of partridges. Cut the carrots and turnips into pieces ,the size of a counter, boil them separately, in salted water, with a pinch of sugar. When sufficiently cooked, but not overdone, turn them out on a sieve to drain quite dry. Boil the cabbage with the ham or bacon till perfectly tender, then drain and press out all the water from it. When quite dry, cut into small pieces. Roast the partridges and cut them in neat small joints. Butter a plain mould, line it with but- tered paper, placing a round of paper at the bottom. Fit in the carrots and turnips alternately till the mould is lined, pressing them lightly with the fingers as you proceed. Next arrange a layer of the cabbage all round, pressing it care- fully, and put a layer at the bottom, on this place some of the partridge, cover with more cabbage, then more parv ridge and continue thus till the mould is full. Steam the chartreuse, then tuna it out very carefully on to a dish, and pour round the base, either mushroom cspagnole or brown sauce (see Sauces).