102 bacon cut up, wine, shalot, herbs, and glaze. Put the cover on the casserole and cook the contents in a moderate oven for 30 to 40 minutes. The more it is basted while cooking the better it will be. When the chicken is done, strain the gravy from the casserole, carefully remove any fat on the top, then return it, the chicken, and the gravy to the cas- serole. Make it quite warm in th oven, and send to table with a “ pie dish collar ” round the bowl. DUCKLINGS DUTCH FASHION.—CANNETONS A L’HOLL AND AISE. Ingredients.—A couple of ducklings, £ of a lb of butter, 2 small onions, juice of \ a lemon, \ a bunch of sweet heibs (parsley, bay leaf, thyme, and marjoram), lib. of cherries, salt, ] | pine of good stock. Into each duck put a piece of butter and an onion finely chopped, or if large half a one. Put them down to a quick fire and roast them till they begin to colour. Baste them well with butter, lemon juice, and a pinch of salt. New put them in a stewpan with the herbs and the stock which should be quite free from fat, and add the cherries stontd. Simmer all together very gently and when the cherries and ducklings are quite done, put the birds on a hot dish, strain the gravy, and serve it and the cherries round the dish. DUCKS A LA BRUGES.—CANARDS A LA BRUGES. Ingredients.—1 or 2 ducks, forcemeat, rather more than a pint of rich stock, | a pint of sheny, 6 onions, a faggot of herbs, bacon, glaze, cullis, 2 dozen olives. Bone the ducks, fill them with forcemeat and put them into a stewpan with a little of the stock, put the pan on a slow stove for 10 minutes, then add the stock, bones, giblets, onions, herbs, and sherry. Cover the ducks with bacon and do them on a slow stove for 2 hours. Take them out, dry them with a cloth, and glaze them. Strain and skin the fat off the liquor they were cooked in and reduce it to glaze, and add to it as much cullis as you want sauce. Turn the olives (that is stone them without breaking them), boil them in the sauce, dish the ducks, and serve the sauce round them.