20 HARE SOUP.—PUREE DE LIEYRE (ENGLISH RECIPE). Ingredients.—1 hare, butter and flour, 1 sliced carrot, 1 turnip, 3 onions, a small teaspoonful of black pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup, 1 glass of port wine, 2 quarts of common stock. Cut the hare into pieces and put it into a jar with the vegetables, black pepper, herbs and stock, seal down the jar closely and place it in a pan of boiling water and simmer till the meat is in shreds, now strain the soup into a sauce- pan, thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, add the ketchup and port wine, season to taste and serve. When wauted very rich lib. of gravy beef and a slice of lean ham should be added. LAMBS’ TAILS A LA PARISIENNE.—PUREE PARI- SIENNE (FRENCH RECIPE). Ingredients.—12 lambs’ tails, 2 old fowls, 4 slices lean haul, 4 large onions, a faggot of herbs, 2 blades of mace, 1 pint asparagus peas, 1 pint of boiled cream, 4 yolks of eggs, 1 pint of Bechamel, 2 quarts of white stock, white braise. Procure the tails from the butchers ready scalded, blanch them and put them into a white braise (see Sauces),when very lender take them out and cut them in pieces 2 inches long, now put them in a small stewpan till wanted. Line the bottom of the second stewpan with the ham, fowls cut in joints, onions, herbs, mace, and 1 pint of water. Put the stewpan on the fire to draw very slowly for an hour (taking care the contents do not catch). Strain it and skim off the fat very carefully. Boil the asparagus peas in some of the stock the fowls were boiled in, and put them and the re- mainder of the stock to the lambs’ tails. Put the stewpan on the side of the stove to boil for a few minutes. Make a liaison of the eggs and cream, strain it and add the Bechamel. Take the soup from the fire, put the liaison in and keep stirring all the time, then put it on the fire until it begins to come to the boil, and be sure you keep stirring all the time it is on the fire, and it is ready to serve. All white soups should be kept warm in a bain marie, if the kitchen does not possess one put the soup pot into a stewpan of hot water and set it on the side of the stove.