47 FILLETS OF SOLES A LA NORMANDE.—FILETS DE SOLES. Ingredients.—1 large sole, 12 oysters, water, lemon juice, £ of a pint of fish stock, 1 gill of cream, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, bunch of herbs, peppercorns, 2oz. of flour, 2oz. of fresh butter, pepper and salt, cayenne. Remove the fillets from the fish, place them in a buttered baking tin and poor over sufficient water and lemon juice to cover, add a little pepper and salt. Cover the tin with a well buttered paper, place in a moderate oven for 10 to 15 minutes. Make a fish stock from the bones and trimmings, io which add the vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns and £ of a pint of water. Let this boil for \ an hour. Scald the oysters and add their liquor and beards to the fish stock, boil ten minutes longer. Now put the flour and butter into a saucepan, fry them, being careful not to let them get dis- coloured, strain the stock into this, stir till perfectly smooth, then add the cream and a little cayenne. Dish the fillets “ en couronne,” pour the sauce over' and garnish with a ragout made as follows: The oysters, handful of button mushrooms, some truffles and picked prawns, make these hot in a bain-marie with the liquor from the tin in which the fish was cooked, pour into the centre of the dish and send to table very hot. COLD STEWED SOLES.—SOLES A LA JUIF. JEWISH RECIPE. Ingredients.—2 large soles, water, the yolks of 3 eggs, loz. of butter, a little finely minced parsley, pepper and salt, 2 lemons. Remove the fillets from the soles, trim and cut into con- venient pieces. Slice the onions, and put them into a stew- pan with the butter, pepper and salt, and sufficient water to cover, simmer and when quite tender lay the fillets on the top of the onions. When the fish is done, strain off the liquor and when quite cold strain to it the lemon juice and eggs well beaten up. Return to the stewpan and make quite hot. Arrange the onions and fish on a dish, sprinkle over the parsley, pour the sauce over all and serve quite cold.