168 Make an incision with a dessert knife round the half of each lemon, slip the handle of a silver spoon under this and remove the peel which, if properly done, will be in perfect halves and not broken. Carefully take away movt of the white part that adheres to the peel and put the peels into salt and water for 3 days. After this put them into fresh cold water and leave them for a day and night. 2sow put them in a pan and cover them with cold water and let them simmer gently till you can pierce them with the head of a pin, but do not let them get flabby. In the meantime make a syrup with J a. lb. of sugar to every pint of water, drain the peel diy, put them into a delicately clean preserving pan, completely cover them with the syrup, and simmer till the peel becomes quite transparent. While this is doing make a syrup of the remaining sugar and water (to every lib. of sugar 1 pint of water), drain ihe peel and put it into the second syrup and simmer over the fire till the sugar candies. Take out the peel and lay each piece en a baking tin which should be covered with kitchen paper and put into a cool oven to dry. Keep in biscuit tins for use. Oranges are candied in the same manner. NOUGAT. Ingredients.—lib. of sweet almonds, lib. of castor sugar, whipped cream flavoured to taste. Blanch and peel the almonds, wash them and wipe them dry in a napkin. Shred them and put them into a slow oven till they take a nice light fawn colour. In the mean- time put the sugar in a lined saucepan or preserving pan and stir it over a slow fire with a wooden spoon, being very careful not to let it catch. Now throw in the almonds which should be quite hot and mix very gently with the sugar Take a mould or as many small dariol cups as required (one for each person) oiling carefully the inside of each with a paste brush. Pour some of the nougat, on to a marble slab or large meat dish slightly oiled, and with a lemon, spread out the mixture as thin as possible. Hav- ing oiled your fingers, line the moulds as quickly as possible with the nougat while hot, for if allowed to cool it will become brittle. When the nougat is cold and set, slip a