30 pan. with the stock and boil very gently for an hour. Take out the fowls, remove all the meat from the bones, put it into a mortar with the almonds and pound until quite fine and when fine enough pass the mixture through a tammy, then put it into a saucepan, add to it the contents of the stewpan with the crumbs of the French rolls, boil for another hour and strain the soup through a tammy into a saucepan, add the cream, bring to the boil, stirring carefully. Season with salt, cut the crust of the rolls into shilling sized pieces, put them into the tureen, pour in the soup and serve at once. WHITE VERMICELLI SOUP.—POTAGE VERMICELLE. Ingredients.—2 quarts of white stock, the yolks of 6 eggs,. 1 pint of boiled cream, 1 large spoonful of Bechamel sauce, Jib. of vermicelli, salt, a small lump of sugar. Put the eggs into a basin and beat them very well. Add the cream little by little, strain through a hair sieve then add the Bechamel, put this liaison to the white stock, place the soup pot on the fire and keep stirring all the time till it boils or the eggs will curdle. WTien boiling add the ver- micelli and seasoning, keep stirring till it has boiled another 20 minutes, or till the verndcelli is quite tender, then serve. Italian soup is made in the same way using Italian paste instead of vermicelli. VEGETABLE PUREE.—PUREE A LA MARQUISE. Ingredients.—Jib. of butter, Jib. lean ham, 12 sliced -onions, 6 heads of celery, 3 sliced turnips, 4 shred cabbage lettuces, 1 handful of picked chervil, crumb of 2 French rolls, 50 asparagus points, 5j pints of stock. Put the butter into a stewpan with the ham cut thin, the onions, celery cut in pieces, turnips, lettuce, chervil, and J pint of stock. Put the stewpan on the stove and let the contents simmer very slowly for 1J hours, add 2 quarts more stock and the rolls, let the soup boil for another hour and rub it through a tammy. Put the asparagus points into a pint of stock, boil them till tender, then add them and the stock to the puree, season, give one boil and serve.