much flour as will thicken the sauce, then pour the liquor the carp has been stewed in, boil it for a few minutes stirr- ing all the time, then season with the cayenne, orange juice, and anchovy, and serve very hot with mushroom sauce. CARP AU CAPUCIN — CARPE AU CAPUCIN. ITALIAN RECIPE. Ingredients.—1 carp, 1 egg, bread crumbs, '2\ oz. of but- ter, flour, \ pint of white wine, ^ pint of stock, 2 sliced, onions, 2 bay leaves, a faggot of thyme, parsley, sweet mar- joram, 2 sprigs of basil, 6 anchovies, squeeze of lemon juice, cayenne pepper, a pinch of sugar. Carefully clean the carp, stuff it with the forcemeat and sew it up. Rub it over with the egg, cover it well in bread crumbs, and over them drop l|oz. of the butter oiled. Put the fish in a deep earthen dish, with the stock, wine, onions, bay leaves, herbs, and anchovies. Put the dish in the oven, and bake for 1 hour. Put the remainder of the butter into a stewpan and when it is melted dredge in sufficient flour to dry it up. Pour in the strained liquor from the carp and. keep stirring all the time till it boils. Now add the lemon, cayenne, and sugar, dish the carp, garnish with fried parsley: and send the sauce to table in a boat. CARP A LA ROTHSCHILD.—CARPE A LA ROTHSCHILD.. Ingredients.—2 carp, a faggot of thyme, parsley, basil, chopped shallot, 2 spoonfuls of veloute sauce, 1 glass of port wine, a few drops of anchovy essence, a squeeze of lemon- juice, a pinch of sugar, cayenne pepper. Clean the carp, bone them, cut them in collops, and put them in a buttered Saute pan which should be sprinkled with the shallot, herbs and season with pepper and salt, and a little cayenne. Put the Saute pan on a slow stove for a few minutes, then turn the collops and let them do for a few minutes longer. Put them on a dish en couronue. Scrape the herbs and shallot from the Saute pan into a stewpan with the veloutb, wine, and anchovy, boil it up, add the lemon juice and sugar and pour tho sauce in the middle of the dish and serve very hot.