35 / (86) PRINCE’S PUDDING or COLD SOUFFLE. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. The juice of i small Lemon. I gill of Water. Few drops Cox’s Carmine Cochineal. or J oz. Cox’s Gel.\tine. I gill Milk. The yolks of 2 Eggs. The whites of 3 Eggs. I pint Jelly (Recipe i or 3). I gill Apricot Pulp (from fresh fruit or tinned). Soak the Gelatine in the water tor about ten minutes, and dis- solve gently over the fire. Make a custard of the yolks of eggs and the milk, then add the apricot pulp, sugar, lemon juice, dissolved Gelatine and carmine. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir lightly, but thoroughly, into the mixture. Pour into a basin and stir occasionally until nearly cold. Set in a mould pre- viously masked with bright pale jelly (for method see Recipe 25) and decorated with angelica and fancifully cut pieces of glace fruit. Put the mould in a cool place. Turn out wheu cold and quite set, and serve as a dinner or luncheon sweet. (87) VICTORIA PUDDING. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 or 3 Sponge Cakes. A pint Custard. A little Raspberry Jam. I gill Cream. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. 1 gill Milk. 5 Wine-glass Sherry. 2 ozs. Sugar. Cut t’ne sponge cakes into thick slices and spread with jam, put them in a pie dish or soup plate and pour over them the sherry. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and dis- solve gently over the fire. Whip the cream, add the custard and the sugar ; then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Colour half the mixture with cochineal. Place a Charlotte or fancy cake mould on ice, cr in a very cold place. Pour in a little of the coloured custard, let it set; add a little of the plain custard, and let that set; then add a layer of the soaked cake and fill up the remainder of the mould with alternate layers of custard and cake and put in a cool place to set. When firm, turn out quickly into a cold dish and serve. (88) MARSALA PUDDING. J oz. Cox’s Gelatine. J pint Marsala Wine. The thin rind and juice of Lemon. ^ pint Water. Soak the Gelatine in half the quantity of the water for ten minutes. Put the jam, sugar, juice and rind of lemon, and remaining water into a .saucepan and simmer for a few minutes; then add the soaked Gelatine and stir until dissolved. Strain into a basin and add the wine and brandy. Pour into a mould masked with a thin 2 ozs. Loaf .Sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls Apricot Jam. 1 dessertspoonful Brandy, i oz. Pistachio Nuts.