27 (61) COTHERSTONE CREAM. ^ pint of Wine Jelly (Recipe 3). Strawberry Cream (Recipe 62), Vanilla Cream (Recipe 53). coloured red with Cox’s Cochi- neal or Carmine. Mask a mould with the Jelly about J inch thick, and place on ice to set When quite firm, stamp out a star or cross in the centre of the jeUy and fill up the space with the vanilla cream. Then fill up the rest of the mould with alternate layers of vanilla and strawberry’ cream, taking great care that both creams are on the point of setting before pouring into the mould. Turn out and serve with slightly sweetened cream. Any other of the creams given in this book, of different colours, would do in place of the above. Strained juice and thinly cut rind of half a Lemon. Sufficient Milk for soaking. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. (62) STRAWBERRY CREAM. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. § pint Double Cream. i pint Custard. ^ lb. Ripe Strawberries. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and dis- solve gently over the fire with the lemon juice and rind, and strain into the custard. Rub the strawberries through a hair sieve and mash to a pulp, mix with the cream, and then add to the custard and Gelatine when cool. Add the cochineal. Mix all well together and stir occasionally until becoming creamy, and pour into a wetted mould. (63) RUSSIAN CHARLOTTE. Three pennyworth of Finger Any of the Creams in above Sponge Cakes. recipes. Line a plain mould with the sponge biscuits. Brush the edges of the cakes with white of egg to keep them together. Then fill with any of the creams in the above recipes, but lessen the Gelatine, as it does not require to be so stiff when supported by the biscuits. (&4) GELATINE AND CORNFLOUR CREAM. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. pints Milk. ^ oz. Cornflour. ^ pmt Cream. I Egg- 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. A few drops Ciox’s Vanilla Essence Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little of the cold milk and place with the remaining milk in a stewpan and boil for eight minute.s. 1 hen add the whisked egg, sugar, and soaked