13 into a mould (previouslj' rinsed in cold water) and let this set, then pour in the same quantity' of the pale jelly, and let this set, then two inches of green, and repeat this until the mould is full. Great care must be taken that each layer is perfectly firm before pouring in the other, or the effect will be spoilt by the two colours running into each other. A shorter method of making Ribbon Jelly would be to fill half the mould with the pale jelly, and when firm fill up with the red or green. (20) APRICOT MOULD. ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. i pint Cold Water. i”quart tin of Apricots. i tablespoonful Maraschino (it 4 to 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. liked). 1 Lemon rind and juice. Soak the Gelatine in the half pint of water for ten minutes Take the juice of the apricots, add to the soaked Gelatine, make the liquid up to one quart, add to it the sugar and rind and juice of the lemon. Heat over the fire until thoroughly mixed, add the Maraschino, aud then strain. Pour a layer of Jelly into the bottom of a mould, then lay in apricots and let them set; then put in another layer of apricots and jell3^ allowing it to set, and so on until the mould is full. When firm, turn out and serve with a little slightly sweetened whipped cream. It is best to use a shallow plain mould. (21) DECORATED STRAWBERRY JELLY. 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. The whisked white of an Egg. 1 pint Syrup made with i lb. f lb. Ripe Red Strawberries. sugar and i pint water). i pint Cold Water. Juice of I Lemon. Pick half a pound of strawberries, crush them and place in a basin ; whilst warm (but not hot) pour the syrup over the fruit, cover, and let stand for an hour. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes and then dissolve gentl3>’ over the fire. Add the juice of the lemon, the siramecistrawberry syrup, and the whisked white of an egg, Whisk the preparation until it boils up, allow to boil up well without stirring about ten minutes, and then simmer for another ten minutes or more. Strain through a clean scalded cloth until clear. Place a mould in ice (see Recipe 25) and mask with a little of the jelly, then decorate with the rest of the straw- berries, dipping each berry into partially set jelly, and when sufficiently set pour in the rest of the cooled jelly. When quite firm turn out quickly into a cold dish and serve. (•22) MOULDED PEARS. I tin of Pears, i pint Pear Syrup. 4 ozs. Loaf Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Lemon Essence, ozs. Cox's <’iELATiNE. I tablespoonful Raisin Wine.