Soak the Gelatine in the strained stock (made from the bones and trimmings of any white fish), then dissolve it, and add the milk heated with the butter or cream. The egg should be beaten and strained, and the hot mixture added by degrees, and well beaten. Salt and pepper if allowed, and a drop or two of Cox’s Lemon Essence, with a few drops of Anchovy Essence complete the sauce. A slice of onion or a sprig of parsley may be simmered in the stock for further flavour if desired. NOTE.—Re-htat carefully after adding the egg. Useful to serve with fish, or to re-heat cold fish . For a hetter sauce, use one egg to a gill of the mixed stock a/nd milk. SWEETS. (142) PORT WINE JELLY. to 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine (according to temperature). 1 pint Water. I pint Port Wine. Strained juice ot 2 Lemons, and the thinly cut rind of I Lemon. 5 ozs. Sugar. White of I Egg whisked, the shell crushed. Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients into a stewpan and whisk together until it boils, allow to boil up well for about ten minutes without stirring, let simmer for ten minutes. Take off the fire, and let stand five minutes, and strain through a coarse cloth scalded. When clear, set in a mould rinsed in cold water, and let stand until firm. It is recommended that this jelly should be set in ice Turn out quickly on to a cold dish, and serve with a little slightly sweetened whipped cream. This jelly is better flavoured if the wine is added at the moment of .straining, and if left uncleared. The sugar here, and elsewhere in this section, should be regarded as approximate; invalids having sometimes a great aversion to much sugar. 3 ozs. .Sugar. The grated rind and strained juice of 1 Lemon. (14.3) EGG JELLY. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I pint Water. Well-beaten yolks of 4 Eggs. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Then place it in a stewpan with the sugar and lemon, and stir over the fire until the mixture comes to the simmering point. Have ready the well-beaten yolks of the eggs in a basin, and add to them the contents of the stewpan. Stir over the fire for a few seconds, but do not let it boil. When nearly cold, strain into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. If wanted for an invalid, set in little moulds, in order that it may be served in conveniently small quantities, so ess^mtial in sick-room cookery. This is a soothing drink in a liquid warm state.