Put the Gelatine into a basin, and pour over it some of the cold water and allow it to soak for ten minutes. Then add the rest of the ingredients except the saffron. Place on the fire and stir until it boils, colour with a little liquid saffron, and strain through a cloth scalded. Pour into a wetted mould, and allow to set in a very cool place. Though above recipe {No. 2) for an ttncleabed Lemon Jelly is included in this booh, the thrifty housemfe will probably prefer to use one of Cox’s Elfin Tablet Jellies, which an-e delicately Jl/imoured in great vao’iety, and simply require the addition of water. Neither a Tablet Jelly nor recipe No. 2 can, however, tahe the place of the delicious jellies prepared by recipes Nos. 1 and 3. (3) WINE JELLY. 11 to 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. pints Cold Water. 5 pint of Sherry, Madeira, or Marsala. ^ pint Lemon juice. 5 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 2 Cloves I inch Cinnamon. The rinds of 2 Lemons thinly cut. The white of i Egg whisked The shell crushed. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and then put all the prepared Ingredients into a saucepan over a slow fire, and whisk it until it begins to boil. Allow it to boil up well (about ten minutes), and then simmer for another ten minutes or more without stirring. Strain through a clean scalded cloth. Return through the cloth until clear, each time putting a basin rinsed with hot water underneath. When clear, set in a mould rinsed with cold water, and let it stand until firm. It is recom- mended that this Jelly should be set in ice. Turn out and serve. With first-class Sherry or Madeira, it is safe to add it after straining the rest; or it may be added at the moment of straining, as by boiling some of the flavour is lost. (4) CLARET JELLY (Exceptionally good). 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i pint Claret. 4 pint Water. Rind and Juice of i Lemon. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. I gill of Raspberry Jam or Syrup from Fresh Fruit. 4 ozs. Sugar. 1 clove and ^ inch Cinnamon, or I tablespoonful of Brand3L Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients together into an enamelled saucepan. Whisk until it boils up well ; let simmer ten minutes. Colour with the cochi- neal, and strain through a coarse cloth scalded. Pour into a jelly mould rinsed in cold water, and allow to set in a verj' cool place. If preferred, pour into a border mould and serve with whipped cream in the centre.