layer of jelly and decorated with pistachio nuts, blanched and cut in strips (see Recipe 25). Set by in a cold place or in ice until firm. Turn out into a dish and serve. (89) COBURG PUDDING. 5 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Flavouring of Cox’s Lemon or § pint of Custard. Vanilla Essence; or 5 wine- I pint of Jelly (as per Recipes glass of Sherry. I or 3) A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. I oz. Castor Sugar, | gill of Water. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes and then dissolve it slowly over the fire. Add the custard, sugar and the flavouring, or the wine. Pour into a mould two inches of jellj' coloured with the cochineal and let it set, and then pour in the custard. When firm, turn out quickly on to a dish. Chop the rest of the coloured jelly, previously set, and put it round the pudding. (90) MOCK ICE PUDDING. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. About ozs. Ratafias, I pint Milk. About 2^ ozs. Macaroons. 1 tablespoonful Sugar. A little Wine or Brandy to A few Crj^stallized Fruits,2 Eggs. moisten the Biscuits. Garnish a mould with a few crystallized fruits of different colours, and then fill with alternate layers of macaroons and rata- fias. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, and dissolve slowly over the fire. Strain the Gela- tine into a custard (made of eggs, sugar, and remaining boiling milk). Let it cool. Strain and pour into the prepared mould. Place the mould in a basin surrounded with crushed ice and keep in a cool place until required for table. To serve, turn out quickly on to a cold dish. A gill of cream would be a great improvement. (91) RIZ A L’IMPERATRICE. ^ pint of Clear Jelly (as per ^ oz. Angelica. Recipe i or 3). J lb. Rice. A oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i quart Milk. 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla ^ pint Cream. Essence. I oz. Glac6 Cherries. Soak the Gelatine in a little milk for about fifteen minutes and dissolve over the fire. Coat the inside of a mould with a thin la3'er of jelly (see Recipe 25) and decorate with cherries and angelica Wash, pick, blanch, and cook the rice in the remaining milk till tender. It should have plenty of time, as it must be cooked very slowly so that the rice well absorbs the milk. Turn into a basiri and let cool. Now add the cream, dissolved Gelatine, sugar, and vanilla essence. Stir well and pour into the decorated mould. When firm turn out and serve with preserved apricots, peaches, or compote of prunes.