WHAT THE PRESS IS SAYING OF COX’S SPARKLING GELATIHE. Report front the Glasgow Exhibition, 1901, E^dence is not wanting of the continued and growing appreciation of Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine, for the exhibit of this useful culinary adjunct is a constant source of attraction in the exhibition, groups of Matrons observine with interest the productions from this Gelatine.— Gbocebt, June, 1901. Report from the Medical Exhlbillon, 1901, Messrs. J. & G. Cox, Ltd., exhibited their Sparkling Gelatine, which is a pure product and reliab’.e for dietetic purposes.— The Lancet, 1st June, 1901. It is well that the public, and more especially Nurses, should know that Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine is of the first quality, and that Blancmanges and Jellies in which it is used can scarcely fail to be a success, even in the hands of an amateur.—Nubsing Record, 8th June, 1901. This well-known Edinburgh Firm, whose name is a household word, both for the excellence of their products and for the noble place that this name has taken in the Records of Edinburgh public life, have just issued a Book of Recipes for using their Sparkling Gelatine, compiled by Bertha Roberts, L.C.A.—Scottish Trader. It is very pure, of guaranteed strength, and is remarkably clear.— The Lady. Cox’s Gelatine is Pure, Bright and Sparkling, and makes the finest Jelly at economic prices.—Lady's Companion. To the majority, such famous preparations as Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine must be a Boon and a Blessing.—Englishwoman. The Booklet of selected Recipes for use with Cox’s Gelatine should be in the possession of every housewife.—Gentlewoman. In Cox’s Gelatine, the public and nursing world have an article of very high value.—Hospital. Cox’s Gelatine is distinguished for its clearness and transparency, and also for the fact that it can be prepared with scarcely any soaking.— British Trade Review. The Gelatine is characterised by those elegant attributes that rejoice the heart of the Housewife, for in practise, it proves superior in a culinary sense to the majority of Gelatines on the market which we have examined. —Science Siftings. Our Laboratory examination of Cox’s Gelatine has given us every satisfaction, and we have no hesitation in declaring this article to be com- mercially pure, thoroughly genuine and perfectly wholesome.—Health. For -Jellies, Blancmanges, and all manner of fancy moulds, Cox’s Patent Refined Gelatine forms a splendid foundation.—Mada.me. Gelatine being an article of constant use in the kitchen in the making of Monlds, Creams and .Jellies, every housewife will be glad to know of a very fine brand, which has made a great name for quality and cheapness— this is Cox’s Patent Refined Sparkling Gelatine, appreciated wherever it is known.—Wo a as. Let Cooks use Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine, and with very little trouble or expense, jellies of the clearest of crystal will reward their handiwork.— Isobel’s Home Cookery. Cox's Gelatine lias the merit of absolute purity. It is extremely con- venient in nse, as it rerpiires no soaking, andean readily bo dissolved in water over a gentle heat.—The House. C3