between. Put a little of the jelly on the top, also chopped, and decorate it with the pistachio spikes. note.—This is most co^iveniently made when a rmviber of STveets are in request for a party. The surplus syrup OAidpine will make another dish. If preferred, more brandy and lets syrup may be used for the soaking of the fruit. Ihe whipped cream should be sweetened and flavoured with pineapple essence. The jelly may be lemon, wine, or gold-leaf. (114) DAMSON MERINGUE. I lb. ripe Damsons or ^Ib. Red i oz. Sweet Almonds. Plums. The whites of 2 Eggs. 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 2 oz. Castor Sugar. •i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i pint Blancmange (Recipe 29). Rinse the fruit, cover with cold water, cook until half done, add the sugar and finish the cooking. Strain; there should be a pint of juice; make it up, if necessary with water. Add the Gelatine, soaked in a little water, stir until dissolved, and add the fruit. The blancmange should be poured and left to set in a deep dish, and the stoned damsons put on the top. Make a meringue of the eggs and castor sugar. Blanch, chop, and bake the almonds a light brown ; sprinkle them over the fruit, then slide the meringue mixture rockily over it. Dredge with sugar, and brown slightly with a heated shovel or salamander. The fruit kernels may also be added to the fruit. The amount of sugar must be regarded as approximate. Serve cold. (115) GATEAU DE PRUNES. A Madeira Cake, about i lb. in i pint Claret Jelly (Recipe 4). weight. Green Cream Leaves. I lb. French Plums. Crystallised Roses. 6 oza. Loaf Sugar. Cox’s Essence of Cinnamon Green Glacd Fruits. Boil the plums in water to cover until nearly soft, add the sugar and finish the cooking, when the syrup should be nearly absorbed ; add the flavouring and set aside to get cold. The cake should be baked in a border mould. Put it on the dish for serving, and coat the exterior with some of the jelly, melted, but on the point of setting. Pour it from the top; any that runs on to the dish can be removed when cold. Then pile the fruit in the centre, covering each layer with the rest of the jelly chopped. Bring the fruit to a point. On the top of the cake border put the leaves and roses (very few of the latter), and garnish the base of the cake with a few glace almonds or rather fruits. The fruit may be used with equal success for rice or blanc- mange borders ; it is effective in appearance and very delicious in flavour, and stands out well amongst other sweets of paler colours. The kernels improve the flavour. Use very few drops of essence in flavouring.