(lOo) MESSINA SOUFFLE. i oz. Cox’s Gel^vtixe. The juice of i Lemon. I pint Cream. 3 gill of Marsala. I gill of Water. 3 tablespoonfuls Castor Sugar. The juice of 3 Oranges. Grate off the thin rind of one orange; add this to the sugar. Dissolve the Gelatine in about three tablespoonfuls of water, and add to the above, with the strained juice of the oranges and lemon. To this add about half a gill of water and the wine, boil up, strain, and let cool. Me.anwhile, whip up the cream and stir into the above. Whisk till the mixture begins to set, then pour into a soulSe mould. Allow this to set in a cool place. When wanted, turn out the same as a jelly. Decorated with whipped cream and glace fruits, and serve. This should be set on ice to ensure turning out properly. (106) NESSELRODE BAVAROISE. A oz. Cox's Gelatene. j pint of Milk. J a Lemon. 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. 3 j-olks of Eggs. I oz. Chestnut puree or pulp. ^ glass of Kirsch. J gill of Wine Jelly (Recipe 3). A few Glace Cherries and Ange- lica for garnishing. Put the milk with the thin rind of half a lemon to boil; dissolve the Gelatine in a little water or cold milk. Beat up the egg 3'olks, and add to the dissolved Gelatine. Stir with a whisk, and pour on to the boiled milk; return to the stewpan, add the sugar, and stir till it thickens. Do not let it boil. Strain through a fine sieve, incorporate the chestnut puiee and add the Kirsch, also the strained juice of the lemon. Mix the whole with one tablespoon- ful of finely shredded glace cherries. Have ready a mould lined with wine jelly and prettil3' decorated (see Recipe 25) with glace cherries and angelica cut into neat strips. When the mixture is about to set, pour it into the prepared mould. Place it on the ice or a cool place till quite set. Unmould in the usual manner, and serve. (Kfl) COLD NAPOLEON PUDDING. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 6 yolks of Eggs. l| punts Milk. ^ gill Cream. 4 ozs I-oaf Sugar. Cox’s Vanilla Essence. I Lemon. Boil the milk; rub the sugar on the rind of lemon, so as to extract the essential oil and flavour ; add this to the hot milk. Dissolve the Gelatine in a little water or milk, and when quite liquid stir it into the above. Beat up the egg yolks, and stir into