51 note.— Recipe No. HQis onethat maybe varied considerably. It ivill enable anyone at short notice to provide a good no^trishing sonp if supply of gelatine, meat extract, o/nd dried vegetables form part of the contents of the store cupboard, and mill be useful to all mho have not facilities for malting jellied stock from meat and bones. (131) A GOOD BREAKFAST PATE. i pint Aspic Jelly (No. Ii8). Some Streaky Bacon. Butter a china mould, line with the bacon in strips, then put a layer of sausage meat at the bottom and sides, after mixing it with the flesh of the rabbit, passed through a mincer. Fill up with the joints of pheasant, well-seasoned, the tongue and eggs sliced, and any remaining sausage meat. Cover with more bacon in slices. Bake in a very moderate oven for three to four hours. Remove the bacon, and pour in gradually some well-favoured stock, made from the trimmings of the rabbit and pheasants, with enough Gela- tine added to set it (about three-quarters of an ounce to the pint). When cold, remove any fat from the top, cover with the whites and sieved yolks of two or three more eggs, then coat with a thin layer of aspic. As soon as set it is ready to serve. NOTE.—A second rabbit may be used in joints, if liked. (132) JELLIED CHICKEN. Boil a tender chicken in good stock with some vegetables until sufficiently cooked. Let it remain in the liquor until cold. Take it up, remove the skin and carefully cut all the meat off, trim into neat fillets or rounds. Decorate a mould with some tiny sprigs of chervil and tarragon, or truffle, and the red meat of tongue, cut into stars, etc. Arrange the chicken in neat layers, seasoning nicely and packing closely. Fill up the mould with aspic jelly as per Recipe Ii8, and set aside to cool. Garnish with halves of hard-boiled eggs, tiuy rolls of curled ham, and tufts of parsley. (133) PHEASANT IN ASPIC 1 pint Aspic Jelly (Recipe Ii8). A few slices of Tongue. The remains of a cold Pheasant. Truffle and White of Egg for Prepare one pint of aspic jelly and pour into the bottom of a mr/uld about half an inch thick, decorate with the truffle in star or crescent shape.s, the white of egg and tongue, and pour in more jelly to set the garnishing. Cut up the phea.sant into neat slices, and free from all fat, and then arrange the slices in layers, setting each with the jelly until the mould is full. .Set on ice, and when firm, turn out and serve with a garnish of parslc3’. lib. Pork Sausage Meat. 1 Rabbit (Young). 2 Pheasants. I Sheep’s Tongue, boiled. 3 hard-boiled Eggs. Seasoning. Stock. Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine. decoration.