31 the cochineal, then take oft' and beat for a short time over the crushed ice. When beginning to set, fill up the moulds and set by until firm. Turn out on to a cold dish and garnish with chopped or whipped jeliy (see Recipe 28). (74) SMALL CHOCOLATE MOULDS. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 3 Eggs whisked. I quart Milk. 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. I tablespoonful Ground Rice or ^ lb. Chocolate Powder. Rice Flour. A small quantity of slightly I teaspoonful Cox’s Vanilla Es- sweetened whipped Cream for sence. decoration. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes. Mix the ground rice smoothly with a little of the milk, and cook for ten minutes. Put the chocolate, sugar, cooked ground rice, soaked Gelatine, and remaining milk into a stewpan and stir until it comes nearly to the boil. Add the whisked eggs and stir until it thickens (do not let it boil). Strain into a basin and stir occasionally until nearly cold, then pour into small prepared dariole moulds. Set aside until firm. Turn out on to a flat dish and decorate with the whipped cream. NOTE.—Thete nionlds 'woiM ‘make a pretty a/)ul effective sweet if served on a dish with alternate small fajnoy moulds of Bla/nc- vuvuje {Jtecipes 29 to 35), decorated with different colov/red glace fruits. (75) MAFEKING CREAMS. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Orange I pint Milk. Essence. \ pint whipped Cream. 2 oz. White Sugar. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire. Mix in the sugar and flavouring and when cool add the cream, beat all together and pour into fancy dariole moulds. Serve with a dot of jam on the top of each mould, and edge with a little ring of finely chopped pistachio nuts. Vary the jams, using gree 1, 3'ellow, and red. (76) CHESTNUT CREAM. From i to I oz. Cox's Gelatine. ^ pint Milk. I Ib. Chestnuts. i gill Cream. I lb. Loaf Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla 1 gill Jelly (Recipe i or 3). Essence. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and di.ssolve over the fire with the loaf sugar. Cook the chestnuts until tender, remove the skins, rub through a hair sieve, add the rest of the milk and boil up. .Strain into the chestnut mixture and stir over the fire until smooth. Remove from the