(68) DALMENY MOULDS. i lb. ripe Apricots. Juice of half a Lemon. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A Custard made of:— I oz. powdered Almonds, or a f pint Milk. few drops Cox's Almond 2 oz. Castor Sugar. Essence. 2 yolks of Eggs. A little water for soaking Gelatine. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Rub the apricots through a hair sieve, add to the custard, and when cool strain in the dissolved Gelatine and lemon juice. Pour the mixture into a basin and mix well. When becoming creamy pour into small moulds. The moulds would be improved if masked wnth jelly and de- corated with fruits before pouring in the mixture. NOTE.—If this mould is made at the same time as a clea/r Jelly {Recipe 1 or 3), or Lemon Sponge (J^),the whites of the eggs will not he wasted. A custard could he made with 1 egg, hut the result would not he so good. (69) COCOANUT RICE MOULDS. j oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i J pints Milk. 3 ozs. Best Rice. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 2 ozs. grated Cocoanut. I pint Claret JelljL (See Recipe 4, or any other ot our Jellies coloured red with Cox’s Cochineal.) Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and stir gently over the fire until dissolved. Boil the rest of the milk and rice together until quite soft, add the sugar, cocoanut, and dissolved Gelatine ; when cool, stir in the cream, and pour into the moulds. When set, turn out on a dish and garnish the top of each mould with the jelly which has been chopped finelj' or cut into fancy shapes (see Recipe 27). Another effective way of moulding would be to pour the mixture into a border mould, decorating the top with the jelly and filling the centre with sligbtl3’ sweetened whipped cream. (70) FIG CREAM. J oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ pint Claret, or the same quan- 1 oz. Castor Sugar. tity of water. Rind of ^ a Lemon. 1 gill whipped Cream. ^ lb. best Dried Figs. Cut the figs into small pieces and place in a stewpau with the sugar, lemon, rind and claret. Simmer gently until tender, when the liquor should be almost absorbed. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes and dissolve gently over the fire and strain into the figs. Remove the lemon rind and pass the whole through a wire sieve. Stir in a little of the cream and pour into a mould. When set turn out on to a cold dish, garnish with the rest of the cream and serve.