21 in the milk Tor about fifteen minutes, and then stir over the fire with the caramel, j’olks and white of eggs until the mixture thickens (but do not let it boil). Remove from the fire, stir occa- sionall3’ until cool, add the cream, and pour into the mould pre- viously lined with the sponge fingers. Great care must be taken not to pour the cream into the prepared mould till it actually begins to set, otherwise the dish will be a failure. Set aside until cold. Turn oat on to a dish and serve. (41) ORANGE CHARLOTTE. ^ pint Orange Jelly (as per oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Recipe No. 5). Sponge Fingers. Strained juice of 2 Oranges. Grated rind of i Orange. ^ pint Double Cream. I oz. Castor Sugar. Pour into a mould some orange jelly about one inch deep, let this set, then line the inside of the mould with the sponge fingers. Place a smaller mould in the centre of this lined mould and fill up the space (which should be about an inch) with clear orange jellj’, and set aside until firm. Remove the small mould and immediatelj' pour in the prepared mixture as below. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes, and then dissolve over the fire with the juice of two oranges and the gyrated peel of one. Remove from the fire, and when cool add the whipped cream, pour this into the space left after the removal of the mould. Set aside until quite firm. Serve quarters of oranges round the base of the dish. (42) PINEAPPLE CHARLOTTE i pint of Jellj' (Recipe i or 3). f pint Cream. Sponge Finger Biscuits. 1 oz. Castor Sugar. § oz. Cox’s Gel.^tine. I gill Milk. I small tin Pineapple (chunks are best). Mask t'ne bottom of a plain mould with a little of the jelly and decorate with half a glace cherry in the centre and small slices 01 pineapple, and set these with the rest of the jelh' (see Recipe 25). Line the sides of the mould with the finger biscuits. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire. Whip the cream, mix in the rest of the pine- apple cut into .small dice, the sugar, and a tablespoonful of pine- apple syrup, and strain in the dissolved gelatine; mix well, and when cool pour carefully into the prepared mould. Set by in a cold place until required, turn out and serve. (43) CHOCOLATE CREAM. .J oz. Cox’s Gelati.ve. i oz. Sugar. \ pint Cream. Cox’.s Vanilla Essence, i pint Custard. ^ gill Cold Milk. 3 ozs. Chocolate. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire. Dis.oolve the chocolate