and cover until cold. Just before serving, mask with “ New Cen- tury- Cream,” which should be stone cold (see Receipt 77). note.—.ffato/as, macaroons, and small sponge fingers should be handed with this dish; and by putting a layer of ratafias under the fruit in the dish an improvement is effected, though this is quite optional. (110) MERINGUES A LA FRUTUS. 1 pint Custard. Some Meringue cases. 2 teaspoonfuls Cox’s Frutus. \ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I little chopped Jelly (Recipe i Cr3'stallised Fruits for garnishing, or 3)- nie custard is to be flavoured with the Frutus, and the Gelatine soaked in half a gill of milk, then dissolved and strained into it; an ounce each of French plums, in dice, and crystallised pears, pink, are then to be added, and when quite on the point of setting, the cases are to be filled with the custard and set on ice to get cold. The cases for this dish are preferably coloured pink. Just before serving decorate with the jelly, some in stripes, diagonalljf; some with a central star; others with an outer ring; the greater the varietj" the better. Then put dots of multicoloured fruits here and there on the jellj^ or some may be decorated with green fruit only. This is a very effective dish if care be exercised in the arrangement, as the half meringues are just laid flat on a shallow glass dish. An outer decoration of ferns adds to the effect; and, if liked, angelica handles may be put on the meringues. NOTE.—The Gelatine must be regulated by the weather, only enough to just set the custard being used, and a good custard is essential. (111> TRIFLE A LA METZ. Some thin slices of stale Sponge Cakes. 4 to 6 ozs. of Ratafias. 4 ozs. of crystallised or glacd Fruiu*. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Red Currant and Apricot Jams. A little Jelly (Recipe i or 3) I pint of Custard. ^ pint Milk. A teaspoonful Cox’s Frutus. Spread the slices of cake with the jams alternately, and build up in the form of a brick, but rather smaller. A few of the ratafias should be crumbled and used as a central layer. Warm the milk and add the flavouring es.sences when just tepid and use for soak- ing the cake, which must be in a good sized glass dish. The Gela- tine is to be soaked and dis.solvcd in a little milk, and strained into the custard to give it a good consistence. Pour this over the cake, and when cold and firm place the ratafias in rows over-lapping on top, leaving space between for the garnish of chopped jelly and fruits of several colours, according to taste. A few ratafias 4^