(116) FIGS A LA VIOLET. I lb. pulled Figs. Sugar. 1 gill Rum. Lemon Rind. 2 Eggs. ^ pint Cream. i pint Lemon Jelly (Recipe i or 3). I oz. Crystallised Violets. A little Green Jelly (coloured with Cox’s Chlorophyll Green). Cut the figs into four, cover them with a syrup ot water (about half a pint), the rum, and two ounces of loaf sugar, all boiled together ; grate in the rind of half a lemon ; cover, and leave for six hours at least, or all night will not hurt. The fruit is to be softened without boiling. Put all into a deep glass dish, melt the jelly and stir it in thoroughly and carefully. Prepare the sauce m the following way, which requires care. Beat the egg yolks and two ounces of castor sugar (thicken them slightly by beating over a gentle heat, "custard fashion,’’then beat, off the fire, until cold). Whip the cream, adcf it to the egg yolks with a little of Cox’s Liquid Saffron, and the stiffly-beaten white of one egg with a tablespoonful of castor sugar. Slide this foaming yellow mixture on to the figs, and dot the violets about it in little bunches with green jelly leaves. (See Recipe 27.) Serve icy cold with Angel or any similar cake, or with ice wafers. NOTE.—Maraschino jelly may replace the lemon for a change. (117) GREENGAGE PUDDING A LA CORONA. I lb. ripe Greengages. Syrup. Flavouring. Stale Madeira or Rice Cake. Colouring. i pint thick Custard. Jelly leaves (Recipe 27). oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Macaroons. Take a brick-shaped mould and line it with thm slices of the cake. Skin the fruit and cook it in a svrup made by boiling half a pint of water and six ounces of loaf sugar for ten minutes. Skim as required. Strain the syrup, about a pint, cr make it up to that quantity; add the Gelatine, soaked and dissolved in a little water, a tablespoonful of brandy, and a few drops of Cox’s Chlorophyll Green. Remove the stones, blanch and split the kernels, add them, then fill up the mould, putting a thin layer of cake here and there, and a single layer of macaroons in the middle. Cover with another slice of cake, and put by to set, over ice if hand}’. Turn out on to a good-sized glass dish, oblong or oval, and pour the custard all over the pudding, the top excepted. Garnish that with a border of green leaves (see Recipe 27) with a few of the best halves of the fruit in the centre. Garnish the base of the pudding with more leaves or green jelly, whipped or chopped. This is a delicious pudding; other kinds of plums may be similarly used. 15