28 Gelatine, and stir until it thickens. Strain into a basin, add the cream, well beaten, and vanilla, and stir occasionally until cool. Pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Set aside until firm, turn out and serve. (65) CHERRY CREAM PUDDING (Excellent). I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Whisked White of i Egg. i pint Cream. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla or 1 pint Milk. Almond Essence. 2 ozs. Preserved Cherries. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve slowly over the fire with the sugar. Strain into a basin, and when a little cool add the vanilla. Whip the cream and add it with the remaining milk, and then incorporate gradually the whisked white of egg. When beginning to set, sprinkle in the cherries (cut in halves), and stir for a few minutes before moulding. When firm, turn out and serve. This may be varied by using a border mould, and filling the centre with crushed ratafias and macaroons, soaked with a little sherry, and dotted about with pink whipped cream. (66) APRICOT CREAM. 1 pint Apricot Puree. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ pint Milk. 4 ozs. Sugar. 2 yolks of Eggs well beaten. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Put sufficient apricots (either tinned or fresh fruit) through a sieve to obtain half a pint of pulp. Make a custard of the milk, beaten yolks of eggs, and sugar, strain through a sieve into the apricot pur6e, then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Mix thoroughly and stir occasion- ally until cold. Pour into a mould. When firm, turn out and serve. (67) RICE CREAM. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ lb. Sugar. 3 oz. best Rice. White of i Egg. I5 pints Milk. A teaspoonful Cox’s Vanilla Es- ^ pint Cream. sence. Soak the Gelatine in .sufficient cold milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Cook the rice in the rest of the milk until quite soft, and then stir in the sugar and vanilla ; strain in the dissolved Gelatine, the cream, and white of one egg well whipped together. Return to the fire for a moment, stir gently, but take care not to let it boil. Pour into a mould, and when set turn out on a cold dish and garnish with preserved fruits or jam and chopped jelly. Serve with any stewed fruit in season or jam. The rice should be washed and soaked in the milk before cook- ing. Use a double saucepan.