17 Blancmandes. note. —JBlancma/nges me very simply amd easily prepared. The flavour of them is both delicate and delicious. (29) BLANCMANGE (Plain). 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i| pints Milk. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Essence. Soak the Gelatine in a quarter pint of cold milk about fifteen minutes. Add the sugar and remaining milk and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is dissolved. Add the vanilla, and strain into a basin. Stir occasionally until cool, and when becoming quite creamy set in a wetted mould and put in a very cool place. (30) “FRUTUS” BLANCMANGE. (Specially gecom- mended.) Prepare as above, using Cox’s “Frutus” in place of Vanilla Essence, “ Frutus ” is a delicious combination of fruit flavours, and is issued only by the Proprietors of Cox’s Gelatine. With all milk and cream dishes it gives excellent results, and will be a surprise to many cooks who use it for the first time. (31) BLANCMANGE (with Condensed Milk). 3 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla i\ pints Milk prepared with Essence. Condensed Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes. Place in a stewpan, and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is dissolved. Add the vanilla, and strain into a prepared mould. When firm turn quickly on to a cold dish and serve with stewed fruit or preserve. NOTE.—Condensed Milk is less trouble to use than fresh milk, no stirring being necessary after the ingredients are mixed and the Gelatine dissolved. Choose a brand containing full cream, or preferably added cream, and without added sugar; but in the latter case, add a little sugar to the mixture. Low-priced skim milk brands are useless. (32) BLANCMANGE (Wfaie Flavonr). 2 OZS. Castor Sugar. i pint Milk. I oz. Cox’s Gelati.ne. i gill Sherry. Soak the Gelatine in half pint of milk for about fifteen minutes. Add the .sugar and the re.st of the milk and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is dissolved. Remove from the fire, and when nearly cold add the wine. Strain, and let the mixture remain in the basin, stirring from time to time until it is becoming quite cream}'. H