in sufficient milk to rorm a smooth paste. Whip the cream, add the custard, the dissolved chocolate, and the sugar to it; then strain in the Gelatine, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into a mould. When firm, turn out and serve. (44) GINGER CREAM. i oz. Cox's Gelatine. 2 czs. Sugar, i pint Cream. 4 ozs. Preserved Ginger, f pint Custard. gill cold Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve over the fne. Whip the cream, add the custard, the sugar, and the ginger cut into slices. Stir in a dessert-spoonful of the ginger syrup, then add the dissolved Gelatine. Stir occa- sionall}' until beginning to set and pour into a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn out and serve. (45) PEACH CREAM. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 4 ozs. Sugar. ^ pint Peach Puree, 5 the juice of a Lemon. I pint Cream. f gill cold Milk. Put the Gelatine to soak in the milk with the sugar, then dissolve it gently over the fire. Whip the cream; rub sufficient peaches through a hair sieve to obtain half a pint of pulp ; add this to the cream and lemon juice. Then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Stir occa-ionally until cold and set in a mould. When firm, turn out and serve. (46) RATAFIA CREAM. oz. Cox’s Gelatine. | pint Cream, 3 ozs. Sugar. 2 ozs. Ratafias. 1 pint Milk. Grated rind of 1 Lemon. 2 ozs. Macaroons. Soak the Gelatine in in half a pint of cold milk for about fifteen minutes. Crush the macaroons and ratafias and put into a bowl, and pour over them half a pint of boiling milk. Then add the sugar, lemon rind and dissolved Gelatine, and stir till dissolved. When cool add the.cream. Pour into a mould rinsed in cold water and stand in a cool place to set. This mould would be improved if masked in jelly and decorated with glace cherries and angelica (see Recipe 25). (47) ITALIAN CREAM. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. S pint Custard, flavoured with Grated rind of i Lemon. Cinnamon. 2 ozs. Ratafias 4 pint Cream. i oz. each Preserved Ginger, a gill cold Milk. Candied Fruit and Cherries. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve over the fire, "^fhip the cream, add the custard, sugar.