30 The figs are improved by soaking for a few hours in the claret. They should be rinsed first. I oz. Castor Sugar. I teaspoonful Essence. Cox’s Lemon (71) LEMON CREAM. 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. J pint Cream. 5 pint Milk. 2 Lemons. Soak the Gelatine in a little cold milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve over the fire. Peel the lemons thinly and put with the cream and the rest of the milk into a covered stewpan, and let it stand in a gentle heat for one hour, taking great care to heat it very slowly and not allowing it to boil. Remove the peel, add the sugar, and strain in the Gelatine. When cool, strain in the juice of one lemon, and add the essence. Set aside until firm, then turn out on to a cold dish and serve. (72) EDINBURGH CREAM. f Cox’s Gelatine. 3 Eggs, well whisked, j pint Cream. 1^ ozs. Loaf Sugar. ^ pint Milk. 3 ozs. mixed Glac6 Fruits, soaked 1 gill of Jelly (Recipe I or 3). in a spoonful of Brandy. Mask a mould with the jelly and decorate with different coloured glace fruits, and set the fruits with a layer of jelly (see Recipe 25). Soak the Gelatine in sufficient cold milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve slowly over the fire. Place the rest of the milk, the cream with the sugar, into a stewpan, and bring to the boil; then pour into a basin containing the whisked eggs ; stir well, return to the stewpan and stir until thick (but do not let it boil) ; then strain in the dissolved Gelatine and remove from the fire. When nearly cold stir in the rest of the glace fruits cut into shreds. When firm, turn out and serve. (73) SMALL STRAWBERRY MOULDS. 1 lb. Strawberries. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 Eggs, whisked. i oz. Castor Sugar. I pint Water. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. I tablespoonful Maraschino (op- i pint Jelly (Recipe i or 3). tional). A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Mask some fancy dariole moulds with jelly ; when partly set, garnish with strawberries, coat with half-set jelly, and place on ice till set (see Recipe 25). Pick the remaining strawberries, crush, and then rub through a fine wire sieve. Make a syrup of the loaf sugar and a gill of cold water. Then place the fruit pulp, syrup, whisked eggs and Maraschino in a bowl, and whisk over a sauce- pan of boiling water. Soak the Gelatine in the rest of the water and dissolve gently over the fire ; then strain into the pulp and keep stirring over the hot water until the mixture thickens; add