the milk to allow (he whole to get thoroughly hot over the firci stirring all the while, until the binding of the eggs is effected. On no account let it boil. Strain, add the flavouring and lemon juice, and. when sufficiently cool, the whipped cream. Mould, let it set, turn out and serve with any kind of preserved fruit. (108) MIXED FRUIT CHARLOTTE. 5 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 1 inch Cinnamon. 2 sour Cooking Apples. ^ pint Cream. 2 ozs. Sugar. i gill of Milk. I gill of Wine Jelly. Glace Fruit for garnish. About 15 Sponge Finger Biscuits. Put the Gelatine to soak in the milk (cold). Peel, core and slice the apples, cook them with the cinnamon and a little water till tender; then rub through a fine sieve, omitting the cinnamon. To this add the sugar, also the Gelatine, which should be heated up with the milk. Cook together for a few minutes, and strain. Cut up about a tablespoonful of glac6 fruit, cherries, apricots, angelica, etc. Mix this wnth the above, whip the cream, and stir it when the mixture is sufficiently cool. Have ready a plain Charlotte mould, the bottom of which has been well coated with a layer of wine jell3% and prettily decorated with a few cherries and angelica. Trim the biscuits, cut off the tips at one end, and range them round the inside of the tips so that they fit closely. Stir the re- mainder of jellj^ into the prepared cream, and when cool enough, fill up the mould. Great care is needed in doing this, so as not to disturb the biscuits. Place the mould on the ice or a cool place for about one and a-half hours. Dip the bottom of the mould in a little hot water for a second only, and turn out on to a suitable dish. It is then ready for table. (109) NEW CENTURY TRIFLE. 2 ozs. of Figs, in shreds. 2 ozs. of Dates in shreds. 2 Bananas. A few Green Grapes and Glacd Cherries. Syrup as below. 4 ozs. French Plums. 2 Apples. 2 Jaffa Oranges. A oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Orange Essence A teaspoonful of Brandy. Boil a pint of water and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, skim- ming as required, add the peel of one of the oranges rasped on the sugar to flavour it. Then put in the dates, figs, stoned plums, and apples in slices, sub-divided. Simmer gently until the fruit is soft, then put it into a deep dish with the bananas sliced, and oranges in sections, freed from the white skin. Add the Gelatine (soaked in a gill of water) to the syrup, dissolve it, and flavour it with a few drops of Cox’s orange essence and a tablespoonful of brand3'. There should be about a pint and a quarter. Pour over the fruits