54 Another way.—Proceed as before, but at the time of serving, instead of cooking eggs in the liquor, pour a cupful of it over a lightly poached egg in the soup plate. And if more body is pre- ferred, a little boiled rice may be added. A mild flavouring of curry powder or paste (for convalescents) is often relished for this class ot soup ; so is tomato sauce or catsup; even a few drops add zest to the dish. (139) PHEASANT PUREE. lb. of Raw Pheasant, prefer- i Egg. ably the breast. • ^ oz. Butter. 5 pint of Stock and Milk mixed. \ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Mince the meat and pound it with the yolk of egg and butter, and a little seasoning of salt, pepper, and a drop or two of Cox’s Essence of Cloves. Sieve this. Soak the Gelatine in the stock, add the milk, and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is melted; put in the meat, and cook in a double pan for twent5' minutes or more. Serve with dry toast or plain biscuits. Another way.—Reduce the stock and milk to the third of a pint, and cook the mixture in little moulds for cold seiwice, or to use for sandwiches. Other game, or game and poultry can be used similarly, and cream may replace butter. (140) RAW BEEF SANDWICHES. A New Mode. A Beef Steak (about 2 or 3 ozs.) Seasoning if allowed. 1 gill of Water. i gill of Cream. 5- oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Scrape the pulp from a lean fresh steak by laying it flat on a plate. Use a sharp knife, and scrape from you, leaving nothing behind but the skin. Soak and then dissolve the Gelatine in the water, and when cool mix in the cream, then the meat, which should be prepared the last thing. About two or three ounces will be wanted. Pour out on a flat dish to get quite cold, then either stamp it out in rounds and place between thin slices of bread and butter the same size and shape, or cut it in dice and make the sandwiches in the usual way. note.—In extreme illness this mode is not suitable; but con- valescents will find it very acceptable. A few drops of Cox's Essence of Cloves or Cinnamwn inipo'ove the flavoxir. (141) TASTY FISH SAUCE. ^ pint Milk. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I Egg. 4 pint Fish Stock. J oz. Butter or one tablespoonful of Cream. Seasoning as below.