32 fire and let cool, then add the cream and vanilla. Mask a border mould with jelly, then pour in the mixture. When set, turn out and serve with a little slightly sweetened whipped cream, coloured pink, for the centre. (77) NEW CENTURY CREAM. i pint thin Cream. 5 pint Milk. 1 oz. Ground Almonds. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar, j oz. Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine, ing. I Egg. The rind of half an Orange. A few drops Cox’s Ratafia Essence Grapes and Cherries forgarnish- Soak the Gelatine in the milk, put it in a stewpan with the 5'olk of the Egg and other materials, except the almonds and essence. Whisk until dissolved, strain, and add the rest; stir well and set by to cool. The orange rind may either be grated or infused in the milk. The flavour of this is very delicate. After pouring over the fruit, use the grapes and cherries, cut in two, as a garnish, either for the centre or edge. If preferred, the cream may be tinted a pale pink with Cox’s Carmine. NOTE.— This, used hot, is cm excellent sauce for rich pud^ dings. It may also be served cold with stewed fniits or fruit tarts, eto. For plainer dishes, a gill of cream and half a pint of millt may be used. (78) IMITATION WHIPPED CREAM, FOR FILLING MERINGUES. i oz. (or a little less) Cox’s f pint Milk. Gelatine. ozs. Castor Sugar. pint Cream. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Essence. Whip the cream and add the sugar and vanilla. Soak the Gela- tine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Strain into a basin and whip. When cool, stir in the cream very gently. (79) LEMON SPONGE. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 Lemons (peeled thinly and 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. strained juice). Whites of 3 Eggs. i pint Water. Soak the Gelatine in quarter pint of cold w’ater ten minutes- Put into a saucepan three quarter pint of boiling water, the sugar, lemons, and soaked Gelatine. Stir over a slow fire until entirely dissolved, taking great care it does not boil. Remove from the fire and strain carefully. When cool and beginning to set, add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk all together until the preparation thickens and looks like snow. Heap up on a dish to appear as rocky as possible. < This can be moulded, only in that case pile high in the mould, as it sinks in cooling. In the summer use ozs. of Gelatine.