38 a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When set, turn out and serv'e with a custard made with the yolks of eggs, one pint of milk, sugar and lemon flavouring to taste. (96) APPLE CHARLOTTE. Soak the Gelatine in half-pint of cold water for ten minutes. Peel, core, and slice the apples and stew them in the remaining half pint of water till quite soft, then beat up with a fork or rub through a sieve. Add the sugar, the Gelatine, the grated rind of the lemon and its juice, and stir over the fire until the Gelatine is dissolved, but do not let it boil. Add the whipped whites of eggs and let cool. Line the mould with the sponge fingers and pour in the mixture. When firm turn out quickly into a cold dish. Serve with a custard made of the j'olks of eggs, sugar, and vanilla essence to taste. (97) APPLE FLUMMERY. 2 lbs. Apples (weighed after About i gill of Water (more or peeling and coring). less according to fruit). I lb. Sugar. i Lemon. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i gill Cream. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Peel and quarter the apples and place in a saucepan with the sugar, water (if very juicy fruit no water is required), grated rind, and strained juice of lemon, cook until quite soft. Strain through a wire sieve or beat to a pulp, add the dissolved Gelatine and stir occasionally until cool; then mix in the cream. Pour into a mould, and when set turn out and serve with custard poured over the mould, or with custard in glasses. (98) KLONDYKE MOULD. I pint Jelly (as per Recipe I i pint Blancmange (as per Recipes Pour the jelly into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Set by until quite cold and firm. Then pour in the blancmange just before it begins to set. Take great care to stir the blancmange until nearly cold before pouring into the mould. If preferred, any of the recipes for creams in this book can be used instead of the blancmange. 3 large Apples. 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 4 ozs. Demerara Sugar. 2 Eggs. Grated rind and strained juice of I Lemon. Finger Sponge Cakes. 1 pint cold Water. or 3)- No. 29 to 35, using h oz. Cox’s Gelatine to i pint Milk).