23 lemon rind, crushed ratafias, and the candied fruits (cut finely)- Mix thoroughly, and then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into a mould pre- viously rinsed in cold water. Set the mould on ice or in a cool place, turn out when firm, and serve when required. (48) VELVET CREAM. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i wineglassful of Sherry (or it 1 pint Custard. preferred, a teaspoonful Cox’s J pint Cream. Vanilla Essence. 2 ozs. Sugar. Juice of i Lemon. I gill cold Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, then stir over the fire until dissolved. Whip the cream, add the custard, the sugar and lemon juice ; then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. When a little cool stir slowly into the mixture the sherry (if done quickly it will curdle), whisk together a few minutes, and pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn out and serve. This mould would be improved if masked with jelly and decorated with different coloured preserved fruits (see Recipe 25). (49) RASPBERRY CREAM. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 P’nt Milk. 1 giU Raspberry Juice, made 2 ozs. Sugar, if jam is used, a little from fresh fruit or jam. more if fresh fruit is used. Thinly cut rind of I Lemon. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. i pint Cream. A little cold Milk for soaking. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve gently ovpr the fire. Place the half pint of milk, lemon rind and sugar in a stewpan, and stir gently over the fire until it boils, remove the rind and pour into a basin. Strain in the Gelatine, allow to cool a little, then add the cream, previously whipped, the raspberry juice and the cochineal (if jam is used, take one tablespoonful and add one gill of water, boil up, reduce a little and strain). Pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm, turn out on to a cold dish and serve. This mould would be improved if masked with a thin layer of jelly and decorated with cherries and angelica (see Recipe 25). Decorate with fresh fruit when in season. (50) COFFEE CREAM. ? oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i gill strong Coffee or table- spoonful Coffee Essence diluted with water to make up the i gill. 3 ozs. Sugar, i pint Cream. ^ pint Custard. A pinch of Salt. ^ gill Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire. Whip the cream, add the custard.