Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes. As soon 20 as the custard is thickened add the soaked Gelatine and chocolate powder, and stir for a few minutes until thick (but do not let it boil). Remove from the fire and allow it to cool a little, then stir in the cream. When sufficiently cool pour into a flat mould pre- viously lined with the sponge cakes and macaroons. The dish is improved in appearance if the chocolate macaroons are used for the top of the mould ; when turned out, it may be ornamented with whipped cream coloured pink. (38) BANANA RUSSE. From 3 to 4 Bananas (according to size). I pint Custard (yolks of eggs only make it richer), j oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 1 gill Cold Milk. 2 tablespooufuls Whipped of Double Cream. A little Cox’s Vanilla Essence. A few drops of Brand3L Peel and cut the bananas into fingers and line the sides and bottom of a plain Charlotte mould, in the same way that you pre- pare a Charlotte Russe. Soak the Gelatine in the cold milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve slowly over the fire and add to the custard while both are hot. Strain, and when nearly cold add the cream and flavouring and pour into the prepared mould. Set aside until quite firm. Turn out and serve, (39) STRAWBERRY CHARLOTTE. j lb. of Strawberry Jam or Pulp made from fresh fruit. I pint Double Cream. The juice of half a Lemon, oz. Cox’s Gelatine. pint Milk. Pink Icing (whisked white of half an egg and ^ lb. of icing sugar, few drops Cox’s Cochi- neal well worked). Finger Biscuits or Sponge Cakes. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Line a mould with the sponge cakes or finger biscuits, which have been previously covered with a thin layer of the pink icing, and allow to set. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve over the fire. Rub the jam through a sieve, add the lemon juice, dissolved Gelatine, and cochineal. When cool stir in the whipped cream and pour into the lined mould as the mixture begin to set. (40) CARAMEL CHARLOTTE. 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Yolks of 3 Eggs, the White of i, 3 oz. Lump Sugar. well beaten. I dessert spoonful of Water. The rind of half a Lemon. I gill Cream. i pint Milk. Sponge Fingers. Place the sugar with the water and lemon rind in a small clean saucepan, and cook over the fire until brown. Soak the Gelatine