0 (5) ORANGE JELLY. i oz. Cox’s Gei_\tine. 3 02s. Loaf Sugar. 5 pint Orange Juice. Juice of i Lemon. I pint Water. Rind of 2 Oranges thinl3'^ cut. Put the Gelatine into the water and soak for ten minutes. Add the thinly cut orange rind and sugar, and bring to the boil. Take off the fire, and let this stand by the side to extract the flavour. Put the orange and lemon juice into a basin, and strain the dissolved mixture into them. Pour into a mould rinsed in cold water. This Jell3’ is never cleared, as it spoils the flavour. It should be bright and transparent, but not quite clear. Some sections of orange, freed from skin and pith, may be used for garnishing the top of the mould. By bringing the juice just to the boil, and pouring through clean muslin, together with the dis- solved Gelatine, the Jelly is lather clearer. (6) CHAMPAGNE JELLY. 2^ to 3 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. I quart Water. 10 oz. Lump Sugar, i pint Sherry. 1 pint Champagne. 2 Cloves, I inch Cinnamon. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about teu minutes, and then place over a slow fire with the other ingredients. Whisk until it ’Doils up well, move to the side of the stove, add i tablespoonful of cold water, and let simmer very gently for another ten minutes. Strain through a clean scalded cloth until clear, and pour into a wetted mould and let set on ice. Turn out and serve. (7) MARASCHINO JELLY. 2A ozs. Cox’s Sparkling Gela- 10 ozs. Lump Sugar. TINE. Strained juice of i Orange. i pint Maraschino. Thinly cut rinds and strained i pint Pale Sherry. juice of 2 Lemons. 1 quart Water. 2 Cloves. The white of I Egg whishd. i inch Cinnamon. The shell crushed. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and the put all the prepared ingredients into a saucepan together. Place over a slow fire ; whisk until it begins to boil; allow to boil up well without stirring, and move the pan to the side of the stove. Add 1 ^blespoonful of cold water, and simmer gently for another ten minutes or more. Strain through a clean scalded cloth until clear. Pour into a wetted mould and set on ice. Turn out and serve. (8) APPLE JELLY. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I lb. Apples, l Lemon Kind and Juice i pint Water. 3 ozH. Ca.stor Sugar. Strained Juice of 1 Orange. .Strained Juice and thinly cut rinds of 2 Lemons. Whisked white of i Egg. The shell crushed.