53 (136; MEAT JELLY WITH VERMICELLI. ^ lb. lean Neck of Mutton. J oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ lb. Beef (from thick part of pints cold Water. leg). I tablespoonful of Brandy. I oz. Vermicelli. Seasoning (unless for acute ill- A little Salt. ness). Soak the Gelatine in half a pint of water for about ten minutes. Cut the meat very small and put into a pint of water for an hour, place over the fire and bring to the boil. Then add the other ingredients (except the brandy), and simmer for four or five hours down to less than a pint, skimming well in the early stage ot cooking; strain carefully through a sieve, and free from all fat. Add the hrandy. Pour into small dariole moulds, and serve as required. If preferred, the jelly could be served as beef tea. Other meats, also poultry, may be similarly used. (137) A VERY USEFUL STOCK. I lb. Gravy Beef. I lb. Mutton. 3 pints cold Water. i teaspoonful Salt. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. The meat should be fresh and lean, and cut small. Put it into a' jar, with two and a-half pints of water and the salt, and cook it over the fire in a saucepan of water for five to six hours. Or it may be cooked in a slow oven for a more savoury stock. The Gelatine should be soaked in the rest of the water and added to the stock half-an-hour before it is done. Strain through a fine sieve, pressing the meat well; then leave to cool; remove any fat from the surface, and re-heat as required. NOTE.—SJdm as needed, and in ma/rm weather, use rather more Gelatine and make only half this quantity. This is available for a number of purposes. Extra seasoning can be added in the form cf peppercorns or Cloves, or Cox’s Essence Cloves, just a few drops. It may be flawoureu roith wine and served cold. Again, it may be co'nverted into a oery nourishing soup, by adding a little cream or a beaten egg to a gill, and re-heating, XOT re-boiling it. (13%) MEAT AND EGG SOUP. pints Water. ^ lb. Beef and Veal. 2 Egg.s. Seasoning if allowed. ^ 02. Cox’s Gelatine. Mince the meat (lean and/>rs/ij,and cook it beef-tea fashion in a pint of the water for two hours, then strain. Soak the Gelatine in the rest of the water, dissolve and strain it into the liquor. Beat the yolks of egg.s, removing the specks, and add the liquor a spoonful at a time at first, beating well. When blended, re-heat, and serve hot or trepid, with toast or plain biscuits. This is useful where nourishment is required, but where only weak meat dishes are allowed.