(57) PINEAPPLE CREAM. 26 Juice of I tin of Pineapple. pint Cream, f Oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i oz. of Loaf Sugar. Juice of I Lemon. Soak the Gelatine in the pineapple juice made up with water to three-quarters of a pint, for about ten minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire with the sugar and lemon juice. Remove from the fire and pour into a basin. When it gets quite cool stir in slowly the whipped cream and pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm turn quickly on to a cold dish,-and serve with a compote of the pineapple. Or, if preferred^ a few slices of the pineapple may be cut into small dice and mixed with the cream just before it commences to set. (58) PISTACHIO CREAM. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla I oz. Castor Sugor. Essence. i pint whipped Cream. 1 ©z, Pistachio Kernels. pint Milk. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and dissolve slowly over the fire. Blanch and peel the pistachios, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve, mix them with the whipped cream, add the vanilla, and last of all strain in the dissolved Gelatine, which should be warm but not hot. When cool, pour into a prepared mould and set aside until cold ; turn out and serve. (59) STONE CREAM ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A little Preserved Ginger or J pint whipped Cream. Cr3’stallised Fruits. J pint Milk. A little Stewed Fruit or Jam. I oz. Sugar. Soak the Gelatine for about fifteen minutes'in the milk, and then dissolve gentl}' over the fire with the sugar, and strain into a basin. Allow to cool a little and stir in the whipped cream. Place the stewed fruit or jam in a glass dish, cover it with the mixture and leave it to set. Decorate the top with small pieces of ginger or fruits, and serve. (60) GOOSEBERRY CREAM. A Vanilla or Velvet Cream A few drops of Cox’s Chlorophjdl (Recipes Nos. 53 and 48). Green. I pint ripe Gooseberries. A little clear Jelly for masking. Strained Juice of I Lemon. Cherries and Angelica for decora- tion. Rub the gooseberries through a hair sieve. Make a cream as given in Recipes 53 or 48, using i oz. of Gelatine in place of the I oz. given, and add to it whilst warm, but not hot, the gooseberry puree, lemon juice and chlorophyll green. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into the prepared mould. The masking and decoration can be omitted if wished.