(92) KIMBERLEY MOULD. f gill of Water. y oz. Cox’s Gelatine. pints of Milk. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 1 teaspoon.ful Cox’s Vanilla Thin rind of i Lemon, or Almond Essence. Yolks of 2 Eggs. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Simmer the milk with the lemon rind, remove the rind, add the well-beaten yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until thick, but do not let it boil, then add the sugar and Gelatine and stir till dissolved. Remove from the fire, add the flavouring and strain. Stir occasion- ally until beginning to set and pour into a wetted mould. When set, turn out and serve. (93) ORANGE PUDDING. ^ oz, Cox’s GeLATiNE. 3 large or 4 small sweet Oranges. I pint Milk. 3 tablespoonfuls Castor Sugar. 3 Eggs. ^ gill of water. Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes, and then dis- solve gently over the fire. Make a custard of the milk, yolks of eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and strain in the Gelatine. Pare the oranges, free them from all seeds and pith, roll in sugar, place them in quarters into a deep dish, and w'hen the custard is cooled, pour it over the fruit and let it stand till firm. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then add the rest of the sugar, and cover the pudding with this meringue and serve. (94) QDEEN MAB PUDDING. } oz. Cox’s Gelatine. \ lb. Macaroons. 1 pint Custard. 2 ozs. Ratafias, pint Sherry. Apricot Jam. 2 ozs. Sugar. A little cold Milk. Fill a mould with alternate layers of macaroons and ratafias, with a little jam between; saturate with the sherrj'; soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover, then dissolve over the fire. Strain into the custard, add the sugar, and pour into the mould. Set aside until firm, turn out and serve. (95) RHUBARB CHARLOTTE. ozs. Cox's Gelati.ve. ^ lb. Loaf Sugar. J lb. cut Rhubarb. pints Water, or more if The grated rind and juice or required. I Lemon. Whipped whites of 2 Eggs. Soak the Gelatine in half pint of cold water for about ten minutes. Stew the rhubarb to a pulp in the rest of the water ; add the sugar, lemon, and soaked Gelatine, made up to one quart, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir gently into the mixture. Pour into