Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Then place it in a stewpan with the sugar and lemon, and stir over the fire tin dissolved. Strain into a basin and when cold add the Madeira v.^ine. Whisk the preparation until it begins to thicken and looks like snow. Pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. If preferred, this can be piled on a dish and served at once without moulding. In this case it should be whisked a little longer, as the mixture needs to be ratber firmer. ^ lb White Grapes. I tablespoonful Cox’s Gelatine. I gill whipped Cream, slightly sweetened with Castor Sugar. (17) CHARTREUSE OF GRAPES. iij- pints of Jelly, as per Recipe No, I or 3, using oz. more Gelatine, except in very cold weather. ^ lb. Black Grapes, Dissolve the tablespoonful of Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it, and when cool mix with the sweetened cream. Pour about two inches of jelly into a plain mould, and when beginning to set line with alternate layers of the black and white grapes, cover them with jelly, and let set. Now place a small bottle, which has been previously rinsed in cold water, on tbe top, in the centre ot the mould, put a spoonful of jelly round and the layers of grapes, adding jelly to set them until the mould is full. When quite firm pour hot water into the bottle and remove from the jelly. Fill up the space thus made with the cream and dissolved Gelatine. When firm turn out quickly on to a cold dish and serve. Chartreuse of strawberries, bananas, or other fresh ripe fruits can be prepared in the same manner. (18) APPLES IN JELLY. 3 ozs. Sugar. i Lemon rind and juice. 5 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i pint Water. 6 large Juicy Apples. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Soak the Gelatine in halt pint of cold water for about ten minutes. Peel and core the apples, a single layer, and stew them very gently in one pint of water with the rind and juice of the lemon and the sugar, taking care to keep the apples whole. When soft place in a deep dish. Add the soaked Gelatine to the liquor and stir over the fire until dissolved. Colour with a few drops of cochineal and let set. When quite firm chop the Jelly finely on wet paper, with a wet knife, and place round the apples. Decorate the apples before serving with whipped and slighth' sweetened cream. (19) RIBBON JELLY. I quart of Jelly (as per Recipe A few drops Cox’s Carmine or No. I or 3). Cox’s Cochineal. A few drops Cox’s Chlorophyll Green. Divide the jelly into three equal parts. Colour one-third a bright red, another green. Pour about two inches of the red jelly 12