33 (SO) ORANGE SPONGE. I oz. Goxs Gelatine. Juice of 2 large sweet Oranges 1 pint Water. and i large Lemon. 4 ozs. Loaf Sugar. Whisked white of I Egg. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Place in a stewpan and stir over the fire with the sugar until dissolved. Remove from the fire, add the orange and lemon juice, and strain carefull3'. The water and juices should measure a pint. When cool and beginning to set, whisk all together until the preparation thickens and looks like snow. Mould (as in Recipe 79) or heap on a dish to appear as rocky as possible. (81) PINEAPPLE SNOW. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. | gill ot water. 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. Whisked whites of 3 Eggs. I pint tin of Pineapple. Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes. Put into a stew- pan the pineapple (cut in dice) wdth the juice and sugar, and simmer ten minutes. Add the soaked Gelatine and make up with water to one pint, stir over a slow fire until entirely dissolved. Remove from the fire. When cool and beginning to set add the whites of Eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk all together until the preparation thickens and looks like snow. Heap up on a dish and make it appear as rocky as possible, or mould as in Recipe 79. (82) PEACH SNOW. § oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i a quart tin of Peaches. I gill Milk. 4 ozs. Sugar. I pint Cream. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire. Place in a saucepan the syrup from the peaches and the sugar; stir until boiling, add the peaches, and continue to cook slowly till the pieces of peaches are quite clear. Pour into a basin and let the mixture get quite cold, then strain in the dissolved Gelatine, mix thoroughly, and pour into a glass dish. When quite firm decorate with the cream, previously whisked till stiff, and sprinkle a little coloured sugar or grated chocolate over the top. (8.3) PEACH SPONGE. I oz. Cox's Gelatine. ^ lb. Loaf Sugar, i quart tin of Peaches. Whiskod whites of 3 Eggs. Juice of I Lemon. J gill of Water, C