the fruit in ; now cover with more ratafias, and pour the blanc- mange over. When set, make a border of the chopped jelly (if gold leaf cannot be had, use orange, lemon, or wine jell3’). Stone the raisins and marinate them in a little sherry, put them in the centre, making them as high as possible, and stick the almond strips amongst them. “ Grape fruit ” may be introduced into this with good effect, and glace oranges added to the other fruit for decoration. (25) TO MASK WITH JELLY AND DECORATE A MOULD WHERE NO REFRIGERATOR IS KEPT. First pour about two inches of jelly (as per Recipe No. i or 3) into a mould previously rinsed in very cold water; let set. To coat the sides break up some ice in a pie dish ; pour into the mould about three tablespoonfuls of liquid jell3'^, and turn the mould round and round in the ice until a coating like glass is formed. The jelly should be on the point of setting—that is to say, of the consistency of thin cream. Then dip each piece of garnish into partially set jelly and decorate the mould. This will 1 make it adhere to the lining of the mould, so that the shape will I turn out properly. j: This rule applies to all decorations, both for sweet and savouiy' 1 dishes, and the result in the improvement of the appearance of ! the moulds makes it well worth the extra trouble. (26) BOW TO DISPENSE WITH A BORDER MOULD. For some recipes a border mould is used, but if 3'ou have not one in the house an ordinary mould will do if used in the fol- lowing manner:—Pour some of 3'our jelly into the mould, make a hole in the centre by placing a small jar (wetted to prevent sticking) in the middle of it. Put in ice or into a cold place, and v/hen set, fill the jar with hot water and lift out carefull3r. Fill up the hollow quickly with a prepared mixture. (27) JELLY (AND CREAM) LEAVES FOR DECORATION. Pour a layer of jelly, about a quarter of an inch thick, into a clean wetted baking tin, and set by to get firm. Green leaves, coloured with Cox’s Chlorophyll Green, are very effective. Or use a pule jellv, and just as it is setting sprinkle chopped pistachios over. When set, cut into shapes. A variety of cutters may be got very cheaply. Shamrocks are as pretty as vine, ivy, &c., though less often seen. Always wet the cutters. White leaves, made by sprinkling desiccated cocoa- nut over the jelly, are very suitable for winter decorations. la