and strain in the dissolved Gelatine, flavour with vanilia essence. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, then pour into a jelly mould. Allow to set until firm in a cool place or on ice. 1 urn out on a dish and serve. This mould would be improved if masked with a thin layer of jelly and decorated with glace cherries and angelica (see Recipe 25). (54) APRICOT CREAM (Economic). I oz. Cox's Gelatine. 5 pint Apricot Jam. I pint of Custard made of Eggs, ^ pint Milk. Milk, and i oz. of Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Almond or Ratafia Essence. Soak the Gelatine in quarter pint of milk for about fifteen minutes, then dissolve gently over the fire. Add the preserve, and stir until it is quite melted, then add the custard and essence. When beginning to set, pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. \\ hen firm, turn out and serve. (55) BAVARIAN CREAM. I ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. J pint Cream. 1 teaspoonful of flavouring 3 ozs. Castor Sugar. (Noyeau, Curacoa, Marischino, f pint Milk, or Cox’s Vanilla Essence). Soak the Gelatine in quarter pint of milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire with two ounces of sugar and the rest of the milk. Whip in the cream to a snow-like froth, then add one ounce of sugar and the flavouring. Then mix lightly, but thoroughly, with the dissolved Gelatine. When begin- ning to set, pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn quickly on to a cold dish and serve. This mould would be improved if masked in jelly and decorated with different coloured preserved fruits (see Recipe 25). 1 oz. Sugar. ^ oz. Angelica. ^ pint whipped Cream. 1 oz. Glace Cherries. j| gill cold Milk. (56) PRINCESS CREAM. I pint of Jelly (as per Recipe 1, 2, or 3), coloured with a few drops of Cox’s Cochineal or Carmine. ^ oz. of Cox’s Gelati.ne. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissrdve gently over the fire with the sugar. Whip the cream and stir in the fruits (finely cut) and the dissolved Gelatine (strained). Mask the mould with a thin layer of the red jelly, having about two inches of the jelly at the top. When quite set, pour in the cream, and let set in a rwl place. .Serve with slightly sweetened whipped cream.