49 (125) CHICKEN IN JELLY. I pint Stock. A little grated Lemon rind. Parsley, Pepper and Salt. 1 oz. Cox’s Gel.\tine. ^ lb. Cooked Fowl. J lb. Cooked Bacon or Ham. 2 hard-boiled Eggs. Mask a mould with aspic jelly and decorate it with fancifully cut pieces of the white of egg. Cut the chicken and bacon into dice and place a layer on the top of the eggs, add a little chopped parsley, seasonings, and grated lemon rind. Fix two or three slices of eggs into the side of the mould. Then fill up with alternate layers of aspic jelly, eggs, chicken, bacon, parsley, etc., until two-thirds full. Dissolve the Gelatine over the fire in the stock ; strain into the mould until quite full. When set, turn out quickly on to a cold dish and ser\'e. (126) TOMATO JELLY. to ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. I teaspoonful of Salt. lbs ripe Tomatoes. I dessertspoonful Tomato Ketchup. Soak the Gelatine in half a J teaspoonful of Sugar. of Tarragon tablespoonful Vinegar. ij pints cold Water. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal, pint of cold water for about ten minutes. Slice the tomatoes and stew them gently in one pint of water until soft, add dissolved Gelatine, salt, sugar, sauces, and cochineal, and mix thoroughly. Strain through a fine sieve or coarse cloth scalded. Pour into a border mould rinsed in cold water, and allow to set. Serve with chicken, lobster or salmon mayonnaise in the centre. (127) A VERY EFFECTIVE GARNISH, No. 1. Pour a thin layer of aspic (Recipe Ii8). on to a dish, and when on the point of setting, cover it with alternate rows of macaroni, boiled and cut in thin rings, and chopped shrimps. In the centre of the little rings put a spot of the chopped skin of pickled walnuts and parsley or gherkin alternately. Coat with more aspic, and when cold, stamp out wdth a good sized diamond shaped cutter, and use for garnishing fish salads, or a salmon mayonnaise, or any similar dish, (Usefully borne in mind when eggs are dear, the macaroni taking the place of the whites, while walnuts are an economical substitute for the costly truffle). (128) A VERY EFFECTIVE GARNISH, No 2. Pour a layer of aspic over an oblong dish ; when ncarl}' set, p>as3 the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, letting the “shower of gold’’fall on to the jelly. It sliould be evenly covered. Now make a design—trellis work is very pretty —with tiny sprigs of chervil, small cress, or other salad. A chopped beetroot instead of or with the green is effective, or the whites of eggs may be chopped or cut with critnped round or oval D