56 (144) GRAPE JELLY. ^ pint Water. ^ lb. Loaf Sugar. lbs. Ripe Purple Grapes. 2 tablespoonfuls of Brandy, f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Dissolve the Gelatine in the water. Put the grapes into a sauce- pan, bruise them with the back of a wooden spoon until the juice flows freely, strain them without pressure through two or three thicknesses of muslin, and when clear boil it with the dissolved Gelatine for ten minutes. Add the brandy and pour into the mould, and allow to set. If the grapes are very juicy, use one-quarter ounce more of Gelatine. (145) AMBER JELLY. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ pint strained Lemon Juice. 4 yolks of Eggs or 2 whole 4 ozs. Castor Sugar. Eggs. J pint Water. J pint Sherry or Marsala. i Lemon rind, thinly cut. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Then put all the ingredients into a saucepan and whisk over the fire until thick, but do not let it boil. Strain and set in dariole moulds rinsed with cold water. Turn on to a cold dish and serve. This jelly is excellent; the eggs are very nourishing, and the wine and lemon juice give it a delicious flavour. (146) GLOUCESTER JELLY. I oz. Ground Rice. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. I oz. Sago. 2 quarts Cold Water. I oz. Pearl Barley. Soak the Gelatine in a little of the cold water for about ten minutes, then put all into a saucepan and boil gently until the liquid is reduced to one quart (about two hours), strain and put aside until wanted. It may be sweetened and flavoured, and eaten like jelly, or a few spoonfuls of it may be dissolved in milk, tea or broth. It is nourishing and easily digested. (147) LEMON CREAMS. J oz. Ccx’ Gelatine. 4 oz. Sugar. 2 Eggs. I wineglass of Brandy. The strained juice of i Lemon. 5 pint Whipped Cream. I gill of Water. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Then place in a saucepan with the eggs well beaten, butter, sugar, and lemon juice, and stir until the mixture slightly thickens and the Gelatine is dissolved. Strain into a basin. Add the brandy and cream, and set in dariole moulds. 1 his is a useful recipe where cream forms part of the diet.