11 (12) GOLD LEAF JELLY. I quart of Jelly as per Recipe i or 3. 6 to 8 Gold Leaves (when buying state for culinary purposes, as Gold Leaf should be pure). Mould the Jelly in the usual manner, and place the mould on ice in the coolest place available, put in the gold leaves and stir with a fork until the jelly begins to set, and the leaves are broken up and evenly distributed in the jelly. Set aside until firm, and serve. (13) BLACKBERRY JELLY. I lb. Blackberries. From 4 to 6 ozs. Castor Sugar, i pint water, adding more as f ox. Cox's Gelatine. required. Lemon Juice to taste and flavour. Soak the Gelatine in I gill of water. Put the blackberries on the fire with the other 2 gills of water pint) and the sugar. Boil all till very tender. As water bods away add more. Rub all through a AiJiVsiVye into a basin. Dissolve Gelatine over the fire, stirring all the time slightly. Add it to the pur6e of blackberries. Add lemon juice. Stir well and set in a mould, either enamel or china. When firm, turn out and serve. (14) MACEDOINE OF WINTER FRESH FRUITS. . I quart of Jelly, as per Recipe l Tangerine. No. I or 3, using a little more j lb. Black Grapes. Gelatine. ^Ib. White Grapes. I large sweet Orange. 2 Bananas. Pour a little jelly into a mould, then place a layer of grapes and let set, then another layer of grapes with jelly to set them, then a layer of bananas, then tangerine orange, then bananas, and lastly quarters of orange, setting each layer with jelly until the mould is full, and keeping the heavier fruit until the last. Any fresh fruits may be used for this mould, or bottled fruits when these are not available. (15) PRUNE MOULD. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Juice of half a Lemon. I pint Water. ^ glass Port Wine or Brandy. ^ lb. Prunes. 2 ozs. Sugar. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Soak the Gelatine in a gill of the water, soak the Prunes in the rest, for a fe%v hour.><, then remove the stones and simmer till soft; add the di.ssolved Gelatine and other ingredients, and boil gently for te.n minutes more. The kernels cracked, and added, are a gp"eat improvement. Mould as usual. Turn out and serve with whipped cream. A border mould is best. (16) WHIPPED MADEIRA JELLY li LA RU88E. I 02. Cox's Gelatine. 4 pint Madeira Wine. 3 ozs. Lump Sugar. Strained juice and thinly peeled I pint Water. rind of i Lemon.