itn0oriaiu preTatorp notes. issuing the fifth and further enlarged Edition of this jf Work, I should like to acknoAvledge the. kind help re- Y ceived from Miss Lizzie Heritage, M.C.A., who has taken rnuch interest in the book, and has contributed a few additional recipes. The recipes in this book are specially prepared for use with Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine, and the quantities have been carefully computed with this in view. To ensure success and avoid disappointment, this make should be insisted upon. It has enjoyed world-wide celebrity for the greater part of a century. In framing recipes for Gelatine it is extremely difficult to give exact quantities, as this article is greatly influenced hy temperature. An amount that will just set a mould in mild weather will make \\,far too flrni in winter. The quantities of Gelatine given in the following recipes are best suited to the average temperature of England, but a great deal must be left to the discretion of the cook, who will add more Gelatine or use less liquid in warm weather, or when ice or cold storage is not available. It is always advisable to set Clear Jellies (such as Ilecipes 1 and 3) in ice. Two or three lbs. are sufficient to set a large mould. Where ice cannot be had, add a good handful of coarse salt to a quart of cold water, and place the mould in it. Kenew the water if required. Keep out the rays of the sun during the setting. In recipes where half- a-pint of Cream is among the ingredients, the ordinary jar of cream, sold cheaply by all provision merchants, will be found to be quite sufficient. Milk may be added to make up the half-pint in winter, to prevent the mould being too stiff. In all moulds where Brandy or Essences are used in flavouring, do not add until the mixture is removed from the fire, or much of the strength will be lost. In recipes where the fldce of one or more Oranges or Lemons is an item, the amount of sugar given is to be regarded as approximate. Allowance shqulcl be rnade for individual tastes, as Avel! as for variation in the fruits, both in size and degree of acidity. Dishes over-sweetened are more troublesome to set and to turn out than those prepared with an average amount of sugar. B. E.