50 cutters, and used for a bolder design. Cover with more aspic, and when firm cut out, and use for the breast of a boiled fowl or turkey, or any similar purpose. The same makes a nice decoration for raised game pies if cut into blocks or other shapes for the border. (129) JELLIED GRAVY FOR RAISED PIES. 2 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 12 White Peppercorns. 1 quart Water. * Flavouring, Herbs, &Ci 1 teaspoonful Salt. Boil the peppercorns in some of the water with the flavouring herbs, &c., for about twenty minutes ; soak the Gelatine in the rest of the water, then add it to the contents of the saucepan, stir until dissolved, and add the salt, then strain for use. This may be regarded as the average strength, and is a good foundation, as it may be varied in the matter of adjuncts ; for example : * For veal pies add a sprig of thyme and parsley, strip of lemon rind, and a drop of Cox’s Essence of Mace. For pork, use sage instead of the herbs named. For game a little stock may replace water, or wine may be added ; the same applies to beef pies, for which browning essence or browning salt may be used. Flavoured vinegars are occasionally used both for veal and chicken pies; but whatever the additions, omit the water in like proportions. To heighten the flavour, a few drops of Tabasco pepper sauce may be used, or a few chillies boiled in the stock. Do not add ground pepper ; it sinks in cooling. To ornament the tops of pies. Aspic Jelly is required. (See Recipe 118). For pies in dishes, good gravy of this sort may be added after baking; it ensures firmness, and is useful for al fresco fare when the dishes have to travel. (130) GRAVY SOUP, ECONOMICAL aaid SIMPLE. 2 ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. A glass of Sherry. 1 quart Water. Liquid Browning. 2 tablespoonsfuls Dried Julienne. A pinch of Celery Seed. I teaspoonful Extract of Meat. 5 teaspoonful Salt. 1 dessertspoonful Cornflour. 6 Black Peppercorns. A sprig of Th3'me and Parsley, i Clove, and a Bay Leaf. 2 Allspice. Rinse the vegetables and herbs, put them to soak in the water, tepid, for an hour ; bring to the boil with a little salt, and skim as required ; add the seasonings and cook for an hour. Strain, return to the saucepan, add the Gelatine, soaked meanwhile in a little cold water and the extract; then the cornflour mixed to a paste with cold water, and a small lump of sugar. Boil for ten rninutes, to cook the cornflour ; add a drop or two of liquid browning and the sherry, and serve as soon as it re-boils.