44 should be placed round the trifle base, and they should be soaked in the flavoured milk, like the cake. The custard requires but little sweetening. NOTE.—jlMs is novel in fla/oourand shape, and mavy mho find dishes rnith co'eam too rich, mill enjoy it. (112) UNITED KINGDOM PUDDING. pints of Custard. 2 ozs. Glac6 Cherries. 2 ozs. French Plums. 5-id. Sponge Cakes. 2 or 3 ozs. Preserved Ginger. A tablespoonful or more ot Cox’s Frutus. oz. Cox’s Sparkling Gelatine. Some Purple Grapes. Some Silver Bon-bons. A glass of Brandy. A glass of Ginger Syrup. Decorate the bottom of a fancy shaped mould with the cherries and French plums, cut up, making a star, or any other design. Put the cakes in in thin slices, with the ginger and the rest of the plums and cherries in layers. Pour the brandy over mixed with the ginger syrup, leave for an hour, then make the custard (with a pint of milk, a gill of cream, 3 ozs. of sugar, the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs), soak and dissolve the Gelatine in a little extra milk, strain it into the custard, and pour over the cakes, after adding the Frutus. Place in ice and salt, or in an ice cave until cold, turn out and decorate the base with the grapes, adding a few small ferns, or other greenery. The bon-bons look best dotted about on little heaps of chopped wine jelly, but they may be used on the top of the puddirg as a border, and omitted at the base. This is a very delicious dish, and a good substitute for the more expensive iced puddings. It is improved by mari- nading the fruits in a spoonful or two of thin syrup flavoured strongly with Frutus. (113) TIPSY PINEAPPLE. I good-sized preserved Pine- apple. I pint (about) Ginger Cream (Recipe 44.) i pint whipped Cream, coloured green with Cox’s Chlorophyll 2 tablespoonsful Brandy. Syrup as below. A few blanched Pistachios, in strips. Cox’s Essence of Pineapple. A little Jelly (Recipe i, 3, or 12). Place the pine on the dish it is to be served in ; cut out the centre, leaving a compact wall. Boil the syrup with a few ounces of sugar until thick, and flavour with the brandy, when cool. Then add the essence. Pour some of this over the pine until it is well coated ; repeat a few times. Any spare syrup must be poured from the dish. Now fill up the centre of the pine w'ith the ginger cream (Recipe 44) when on the point of setting. The whipped cream is to be used as a garnish for the base of the fruit, with small heaps of jelly