Pour into a moilld rinsed in cold water. Keep in a cool place until required, turn out and serve. (33) GELATINE AND CORNFLOUR BLANCMANGE. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. oz. Cornflour. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla, ij pints Milk. Lemon, or Almond Essence. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little of the cold milk and place with the remaining milk in a stewpan and boil for eight minutes ; add the soaked Gelatine and sugar, and stir till dissolved, Strain into a basin and add the vanilla. Stir occasionally until nearly cold. Pour into a mould previously rinsed with cold water. When firm turn out and serve. (34) LEMON BLANCMANGE. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. pints Milk, f oz. Fresh Butter. 2 oz. Castor Sugar. The yolks of 2 Eggs. I oz. Ground Rice or Rice Flour. The strained juice and half the rind of I Lemon. A few drops Cox’s Lemon Essence. Soak the Gelatine in quarter pint of milk for about fifteen minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Make a custard with yolks of eggs and half a pint of milk. Put the remaining half pint of milk into a saucepan with the ground rice, butter, lemon rind, and sugar, and let it boil, stirring continually until the mixture is stiff; add the custard, lemon juice, and essence, and strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Set aside until firm, then turn out and serve. (35) ALMOND BLANCMANGE. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops of Cox’s Vanilla I pint Milk Essence. I gill Cream. 2 ozs. Sugar. 10 Bitter Almonds. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve gently over the fire. Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar. Place in a saucepan the remaining milk, lemon rind and sugar, and let stand by the fire until the milk is well flavoured and then let the milk just boil up. Remove from the fire, add the dissolved Gelatine and vanilla essence, and strain through a fine wire sieve into a basin. hen nearl3' cold, add the cream and stir occasionally until it becomes quite creamy, pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm, turn out and serve with stewed fruit or preserve. Garnish with glac6 fruits or jam, or as fancy dictates.