19 Creams, Puddings, Sponges, Crifles, etc. Not33 ].— Creams shauld not be moulded v/ntil beginning to set. Most of the creams would be improved if mashed with jelly and dee crated (see recipe 25). Note 2.—In recipes where half a pint of cream is among the ingredients, the ordinary jar of cream, sold cheaply by all provision merchants, will be found to be guite sufficient. Milk may be added to make up the half pint in winter, to prevent the mould being too sUffi. Note 3.—Cream, whipped well, is lighter and the bulk is doubled. Unless whipped cream is specified in the recipes, ordinary cream xs intended. Where sweetened whipped cream is mentioned, it should be napped before sweetening. The xnix- ture of milk and Gelatine, etc., shimld be alloxved to cool a little before adding it to the cream; and this xnust be done lightly but thoroughly, or it xvill not turn out evenly. Note 4.—Cxistard is referred to in many of the followinr recipes. For the richest dishes, a good custard is assximed ; fog plain ones, two eggs to the half pint of milk will suffice, or three yolks and one white xvill resxtlt in a richer custard. Where, hoxv- ever, but little cream is blended with the rest, an extra xvhite gives solidity. Fresh eggs are essential, especially where the whites have to be separatelxj whipped for the garnishing of dishes. Pure milk and good came suga/r a/re equally importa/xit. I pint Milk. Soak the Gelatine in half a cup of cold milk for about fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar together, and put into a double boiler with the remaining milk. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken (but do not let it boil), then add the Gelatine, stir till dissolved, and strain into a large basin. Put in a cold place, and when it begins to cool, add the whisked whites of eggs, flavouring and the whipped cream. Mix thoroughly, and when beginning to set, pour into a mould previously lined with the finger biscuits. The finger biscuits should be trimmed evenly that they may fit closely in the mould. Set aside until wanted, turn out and .serve. (36) CHARLOTTE ROSSE. \ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 5 Eggs- 4 ozs. White Sugar. i pint Cream. Cox’s Vanilla or other Essence. Finger Sponge Cakes. (37) CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUS8E. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 1 pint Sweetened Custard. 2 oz.s. Chocolate Powder. \ pint .Milk. A few Sponge Cakes or Finger Biscuits and Chocolate Maca- roons. i pint Whipped Double Cream.