52 inoalia Recipes. It is not so generally known as it should be how extremely useful an article Gelatine may become to the doctor and nurse. The old time halo which surrounded the use of home-made Calf’s Foot Jelly has largely passed away, together with all the time and trouble which making it Involved. But as a grateful, refreshing and palatable method of conveying nourishment to the invalid, PURE Gelatine is still unrivalled. Gelatine, however, is an article requiring so much care and cleanliness in its manufacture, that the doctor or nurse cannot exercise too great vigilance in the selection of the article used. Repeated chemical analyses have demonstrated that COXS GELATINE IS ABSO- LUTELY PURE AND HIGHLY REFINED. Gelatine is useful to give body to Soups, etc., where ordinary thickening of cereals is not suited to the case. SAVOURIES. (134) INVALID BEEF TEA JELLY. ^ oz. Cox's GtLATiNE. ^ pint Strong Beef Tea. Make half a pint of gocd beef tea and strain into a basin. Soak the Gelatine in a little water, then dissolve over a gentle heat and strain into the beef tea. Season and pour into small moulds rinsed in cold water or into china cases. When firm, dip the moulds into hot water, and turn quickly out on to a dish—or if in china c.ises, serve in the case. Increase the Gelatine in warm weather. This is usefully remembered in the case of invalids on tepid diet, as it is very palatable and soothing in that form. (135) VERMICELLI SOUP (for Invalids). I lb. of Meat (Beef, Mutton, i oz. Vermicelli. Veal, alone or mixed, Poultry 3 pints cold Water, cuttings). Seasoning if allowed. I oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Cut up the meat and place with all the ingredients into a jar (first having soaked the Gelatine in the cold water) and soak for an hour, then simmer for seveial hours, stirring from time to time. Strain through a sieve. This may be given to an invalid in the form of a jelly, or again may be taken up hot with the addition of a little milk or cream, added at the time of serving.