10 Put the Gelatine to dissolve in sufficient water to cover it. Peel and slice the apples, put, with the remainder of the water, the thinly cut lemon rind, juice, and the sugar, into a saucepan, and cook until apples are tender; then rub through a hair sieve. Dis- solve the Gelatine over the fire and strain it into the apple mixture, then set in a mould rinsed with cold water. When firm, turn into a dish and serve. Rhubarb and Gooseberry Jelly can be made in the same way, adding more sugar if necessary. Decorate, if liked, with blanched almonds, and serve v/ith a custard round. If half the rtiixture is coloured with Cox's Cochineal, the Jelly is improved. With very juicy apples, use rather less water. (9) COFFEE JELLY. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 1 teaspoonful of Brandy. I pint Water. I Egg, white whisked and shell crushed. I gill of Strong Coffee or half a gill of Coffee Essence with water to make up the gill. 3 ozs. Sugar. Soak the Gelatine in the cold water for ten minutes. Then put all the ingredients together in a stewpan. Stand it over the fire and whisk until it boils, then allow to simmer for twenty minutes. Strain through a clean coarse cloth scalded, and add the brandy. When it is beginning to set pour into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Serve with slightly sweetened whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla. (10) PINEAPPLE JELLY. 1 quart tin pineapple. Whisked white and crushed 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. shell of i Egg. f oz. Cox’s Gel.^tine. Thinly cut rind and juice of i Lemon. Soak the Gelatine in the juice of the pineapple (made up with water to half pint) for about ten minutes. Cut the pineapple into small pieces and simmer in half pint of water for twenty minutes. Add the rest of the ingredients and let it boil up, then set aside where it will keep hot, but not boil, for twenty minutes. Strain through a clean coarse cloth scalded, and mould. A tablespoonful of rum improves this. (11) RHUBARB JELLY. I lb. Rhubarb. ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. 6 ozs. Loaf Sugar. i gill of cold Water. A little Lemon Rind. A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Soak the Gelatine in the cold water for about ten minutes, and then dissolve gently over the fire. Wipe the rhubarb with a damp cloth and cut into short lengths. Stew until quite tender with the sugar and lemon rind, and remove the latter when the fruit is cooked. Pass through a hair sieve, add the dissolved Gelatine, make up the mixture to a quart, add a few drops of cochineal, mix well and pour into a plain or decorated mould. Set aside until firm. Turn out and serve with slightly sweetened whipped cream.