(121) ASPIC JELLY FOR DECORATION. Pour the Aspic Jelly (Recipe Il8) into a clean tin or dishi which must be quite clean and free from grease, a quarter of an inch deep. When quite set cut out in leaves or any design for decorating cold hams, tongues, etc. This jelly should be used to mask savoury moulds. (122) GLAZE. I dessertspoonful of strong Beef ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. Tea. i pint Water. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, and then stir gently over the fire until dissolved. Add the beef tea and boil down until it coats a spoon ; it will take about ten minutes. Pour into a jar and keep it tightly covered with bladder. When wanted for use stand the jar in boiling water and dissolve. A small piece added to soups and gravies is a great improvement. When used for coating tongues a little colouring should be added. (123) VEAL CAKE (Breakfast Dish). ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. ^ lb. streaky Bacon. ^ lb. Fillet Veal. i pint Stock. 2 hard-boiled Eggs. A little grated Lemon rind. Parsley, Prpper, and Salt. Cut the eggs into thick slices and line the bottom of a plain well-buttered cake tin. Now cut the veal and bacon into dice and place a layer on the top of the eggs, add chopped parsley, season- ings, and grated lemon rind. Fix two or three slices of egg on to the sides of the tin, then fill up with alternate layers of egg, veal, bacon, parsley, etc., until two-thirds full. Dissolve the Gelatine in the stock gently over the fire, and strain into the tin until quite full. Place a greasy paper over it and bake in a slow oven for one hour and a-half. Remove from the oven and set by until cold. Place the tin for one moment in hot water and turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and serve. (124) EGGS IN ASPIC JELLY. 1 pint Aspic Jelly (see No. Ii8) i teaspoonful Anchovy Paste I oz. Butter. Pepper and Salt. 3 hard-boiled Eggs. Remove the shells from the eggs, take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar with the butter, anchovy paste, pepper and salt, and pass through a sieve. Roll into six small balls. Take six small dariole moulds and mask the inside of each mould with a thin layer of jelly, decorate with some fancifully cut pieces of hard-boiled whites of eggs, and let set; then put in the balls and fill up with the jelly. When set, turn out on to a dish and gar- nish with mustard and cress, finely shredded lettuce, and ser\'e. Prawns may be used in place of the eggs. ■18