34 Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes. Put into a stew- pan the juice of the peaches, sugar, lemon juice and soaked Gelatine, making a liquid up to one pint (with more water if necessary), and stir over a slow fire until entirely dissolved, taking great care it does not boil. Remove from the fire. When cool and beginning to set, add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Whisk all together until the preparation is light and spongy. Heap up lightly on to a glass dish, and serve with the peaches round the dish. Fill the centre of the peaches with whipped cream, slightly sweetened. If preferred, mould as Recipe 79, or use a border mould, and fill the centre with the peaches in a pile, decorating with the whipped cream. (84) PEAR SPONGE. ^ lb. dried Pears. Preserved Ginger and Syrup. 2 or 3 oz. Sugar. Custard. I oz. Cox's Gelatine. Glace Fruits and Prunes. Whites of 2 Eggs. Cover the pears (after rinsing) with tepid water, and let them soak for at least twenty-four hours. To cook, put them into a stew pan ; if the water is absorbed, add more; it should cover them well ; now simmer very gently until soft but unbroken; add the sugar when half done. Pour the syrup off, flavour it with a spoon- ful or two of ginger syrup, a few drops of Cox’s Essence ot Lemon, and a dessert spoonful of brandy. There should be a pint in all. The Gelatine is to be soaked and dissolved in a gill of water ; add this to the syrup. When cool and beginning to set, add the whisked whites of eggs, and go on whisking until the mixture is light and frothjL Heap it lightly, ring shape, on a glass dish. Now put the best of the pears, over-lapping, to form an outer ring ; fill the middle of each half with a little chopped ginger and syrup, and dots or strips of prunes and pink glacd fruit, pears for choice. The rest of the pears are to be cut up and put in the centre of the dish, with thick custard over the layers. Decorate the top with a star or ring of prunes and pink pears in pretty shapes. This should be served icy cold; it is a delicious dish at mode- rate cost. The custard should be flavoured with ginger and brandy. (85) LEMON DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. I quart Lemon Jelly (as per I pint Lemon Sponge (as Recipe Recipes 1, 2, or 3). 79- A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. Add a few drops of Cochineal to the lemon jelly, and pour into a border mould rinsed in cold water. When set turn out on a dish and fill the cavity with lemon sponge, or, if preferred, whipped cream.