58 TJe of (gelatine in fflil^ doo^ei^j. By LIZZIE HERITAGE. Reprmted from The Epicure, hy kind permission of the Editor. ~y ' HE object of this paper is not to discuss the question of the precise nutritive value of gelatine. It is now generally accepted that while it cannot replace true albuminates, j'et it approaches them in chemical composition, and because it undergoes changes rapidly and easily in the body, it is a good substitute when stronger foods containing albumen are not well tolerated. It is stated that gelatine added to milk makes it more digestible; the curds become much finer, and digestion is thereby facilitated. It is certain (and one of the objects of this article is to emphasise the point) that milk, to which added “body” is given by gelatine, is often much better borne by the sick and convalescent than milk alone; another point is that such fare has in it more staying power, while a third, of perhaps the greatest moment, is that a convalescent on the way from slops to solids may, by a judicious use of gelatine, reach the goal by easy stages instead of, as is too often the case, jumping straight from milk or gruel to a mutton-chop or beef-steak. Pure gelatine is, of course, of primary importance; “Cox's Sparkling ” is always reliable, strong, economical in use, and dis- solves readily—ten minutes’ soaking suffices, although when longer time can be given it is all the better, and the melting is facilitated. In this matter of quick preparation, it compares favourably with “ leaf” gelatine, while its strength is nearly double. Turning to one of Messrs. J. & G. Cox’s own recipes for a blancmange made from § ounce of gelatine to pints of milk, with sugar and flavouring to taste, it may be instanced as particularly “ creamy,” although no cream is added ; this is owing to the excellence of the gelatine and its pure flavour. But this recipe iu intelligent hands is most useful. With half the quantity, or there- abouts, a famous hot drink is obtained, which may be further fortified with brandy or other spirit, according to the needs of the patient, or with the yolk of an egg, with or without spirit. Such a " nightcap ” would often be highly beneficial, and stave off hunger in a satisfactory way, even in cases where bread and milk or anything of the kind would be unsuitable. In some instances, naturally, further solidification is permissible.