sugar, salt and coffee to it; then strain in the dissolved Gelatine. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into a mould rinsed in cold water. When set, turn on to a dish ; decorate with chopped green jell3’, and serve. This mould is very much improved both in appearance and flavour if masked with green jelly, using Recipes i or 2, coloured with Cox’s Chlorophyll Green. The jelly should be an inch thick at the top. For method (see Recipe 25). (51) BANANA CREAM. f oz. Cox’s Gelatine. 3 ozs. Loaf Sugar. 3 Bananas. ^ pint whipped Cream, f pint Milk. Juice of i Lemon. Skin the bananas and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the Gelatine to soak in a little milk for about fifteen minutes, and dis- solve gently over the fire with the remaining milk, sugar, banana pulp and lemon juice. Allow to cool a little, and stir in the whipped cream As soon as it begins to set, pour the mixture into a mould previously rinsed in cold water. Unmould in the usual manner, as described in the foregoing recipes, and ser\'e. A dessert-spoonful of brandy improves this recipe. This mould would be improved if masked with jelly and decorated with dried fruits, such as pears, green almonds, rings (both pink and green), and knots, etc. This makes a change from cherries and angelica. (52) ORANGE CREAM. i oz. Cox’s Gelatine. •3^ pint Milk. 4 sweet Oranges. 1 pint Cream. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. Soak the Gelatine in then dissolve gently with Castor Sugar. Cox’s Orange Cox’s Saffron 1 cz. A few drops Essence. A few drops Colouring. the milk for about fifteen minutes, and the loaf sugar over the fire. Whip the cream, whisk in the dissolved Gelatine; add the orange essence and saffron. Stir occasionally until beginning to set, and pour into a mould. When set turn out on to a glass dish, and serve with quarters of the oranges arranged round and sprinkled with the castor sugar. (63) VANILLA CREAM. 1 oz. Cox’s Gelatine. i teaspoonful Cox’s Vanilla ^ pint Custard. Essence 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. f gill cold Milk, i pint Cream. Soak the Gelatine in the milk for about fifteen minutes, dissolve gently over the fire Whip the cream, add the custard and sugar. 21