47 Saoouries and Aspic Jellies. (IIS) ASPIC JELLY. li ozs. Cox’s Gelatine. I teaspoonful of Salt. 1 tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 2 small peeled Onions. I tablespoonful of Malt or French Vinegar. A few Allspice Berries. I Carrot. Rind and juice of i Lemon. 6 to 8 white Peppercorns. Whites and shells of 2 Eggs. Enough Celery Seed to cover a threepenny bit. 15^ pints Cold Water. ^ gill of Sherry. A little Caj-enne Pepper. Soak the Gelatine in the water for ten minutes, then put all the ingredients into a stewpan and whisk until it boils ; let simmer for ten minutes, and strain through a clean coarse cloth previously steeped in hot water. This cloth should be tied into a soup stand or on the legs of a chair reversed. Return the jelly through the cloth until clear, each time placing a clean hot basin underneath instead of the one removed. Pour into a mould and use as required when set. (119) CHEESE AND ASPIC SAVOURY. 1 gill Aspic Jelly (Recipe Ii8). 2 ozs. Butter. 3 ozs. of grated Parmesan Cheese. 2 5’olks of Eggs. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. Scraps of Puff Pastrj'. Line some fancy patty pans with the pastry. Put the butter, j^olks, cheese, and seasoning into a stewpan and stir over a gentle heat till the mixture thickens. Half fill the prepared patty pans with the mixture and bake. When cold pour over each a tea- spoonful of liquid Aspic Jelly. When set decorate with chopped parsley, chervil leaves, etc., and set the decoration with a tea- spoonful of Jelly. .Serve on a fancy paper or serviette with sprigs of (jarsley. (120) SAVOURY JELLY. ^ oz. Cox's Gelatine. Dice of Chicken Svveetbread or I pint Beef Tea. Meat. Soak the Gelatine in a little water for ten minutes, then dissolve over a gentle fire. Strain into the beef tea. Set a layer of this at the bottom of a mould, then put in a laj'er of dice of chicken, game, ham, or other meats as de.sired. Just cover with more beef jelly, and when set, continue putting in layers of the meat and covering with the beef jelly until the mould is full. When firm, tiini quickly on to a cold dish. Garnish with a little salad.