Soak the Gelatine in the pulp for about ten minutes, make up the liquid to one quart, add the sugar, and heat over the fire until thoroughly mixed, then add the essence and wine. Pour about an inch of the partially set jelly into a plain mould, let set, then lay in the pieces of pear, and pour in enough jelly to set them. When quite firm add the rest of the jelly and set aside until wanted. Turn out and serve with a little slightly sweetened cream. This dish is quickly made, but where time is no object it can be moulded in the same manner as Recipe 20. (23) FRUIT SALAD (SUMMER). Bananas. Syrup. Liqueur. A gill Lemon Jelly (Recipe i). Other fruits as below. Raspberries. Currants. Cherries. Pineapple. Strawberries. Melon. Take about a quart of strawberries, raspberries, and currants mixed, using two or three kinds of the latter ; add about a gill of cherries, red and white, stoned and fully ripe; mix with them a couple of sliced bananas and half a gill each of melon and pine in dice. Pick all the fruit carefully, and reject any unripe or un- sound. Mix all in a deep bowl or dish, then pour a syrup over consisting of six to eight ounces of loaf sugar dissolved in boiling water. (Put the sugar in a basin and pour the water over, a few spoonsful at a time, until it becomes a syrup.) Cover the fruit till cold. Now put over the melted jelly mixed with the liqueur, noyeau is excellent. Cover and place on ice. A few of the best of the strawberries should be reserved ; stick angelica stalks in, and dot them about last thing. If stone fruit (plums, peaches, etc., either bottled or fresh) be added they should be stoned, skinned, and cut up. The greater the varietjf the better; any S3'rup from preserved fruit may be used, and kernels blanched and added give a nice flavour. Serve with biscuits, cream, and sugar. The appearanse is enhanced by setting the dish on a flat one with a border of ferns or fruit leaves. This salad has a little “ body,” owing to the jellj’, and the flavour is delicious. It is simple in composition for so good a dish. (24) FRUIT MACEDOINE A LA TRIFLE. A few drops Cox’s Essence ot Orange. A few drops Cox’s Essence of Pineapple. § pint Gold Leaf Jellj' (Recipe 12). I- pint of Almond Blancmange (Recipe 35). Peel the orange, scoop out the pulp and mix it with the pine, flavour, and add just sufficient sugar. Line a deep glass salad bowl, bottom and sides, with a single layer of the ratafias; put A pint tin of grated Pineapple. A large Jaffa Orange, or two small. 6 ozs. Muscatel Raisins. Some blanched Jordan Almonds. A few ounces Ratafias. U