39 (99) LEMON JELLY AND CORNFLOUR MOULD. pints Jelly, as per Recipe ^ oz. Cornflour, I pint Milk, i oz. No. I or 3, using an extra Sugar, f gill of Water. ^ oz. Gelatine. j oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Yolks of 2 Eggs, well beaten. Essence. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes, mix the cornflour with a little of the cold milk and place with the remain- ing milk and sugar in a stewpan, and boil for eight minutes. Now add_the beaten yolks of eggs and soaked Gelatine, and stir until it thickens. Then strain into a basin and add the vanilla essence. Pour into a flat mould or tin, and let set. Unmould and cut the custard into small rounds or cube shapes. Pour about two inches of the lemon jelly into a mould and let set, then put in the fancy rounds with enough jelly to set them, then continue to fill with alternate laj'ers of the jelly and custard until the mould is full. When firm, turn out and serve. (100) RICE MOULD WITH STEWED FRUIT. 3 oz. Best Rice. \ pint Custard. 1 pint Milk. \ pint Cream. 2 ozs. Castor Sugar. ^ oz. Cox’s Gelatine. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Es- Some fresh stewed Fruit, sence. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient milk to cover it for about fifteen minutes and then dissolve slowly over the fire. When cool beat it up with the cream. Wash, pick, blanch and cook the rice until tender in the rest of the milk with the sugar. Turn out into a basin to cool, add the custard, dissolved Gelatine and cream. Pour into border mould previously rinsed in cold water. W^hen firm turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Fill the centre with stewed fruit. If preferred, mould in the usual way and serv'e with stewed fruit. The result is better if the rice be soaked in milk a few hours. (101) HONEYCOMB PUDDING. I oz. Gox’s Gel.\tine. i teaspoonful of Cox’s Vanilla 3 oz. Sugar. Essence. 1 pint Milk. 2 Eggs. A little Water. Soak the Gelatine in sufficient water to cover it for about ten minutes. Stir over the fire till the Gelatine is dissolved, then add the .sugar anti milk. Now add the beaten yolks of eggs and vanilla, stir until it thicken.s, but be careful not to let it boil. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir gently into the mix- ture. Pour at oHce into a mould riiiicj in cold water.