40 (102) ORANGE CUSTARD PUDDING. Strained Juice of 4 sweet | gill Water. Oranges. 2 ozs. Sugar. 3 l-Sgs. I oz. Cox’s Gel.\tine. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes. Make a custard of the juice of the oranges and yolks of eggs, add the sugar and dissolved Gelatine and stir till it thickens. Strain into a basin. When cool and beginning to set, stir in lightly but thoroughly the whisked whites of eggs, and pour into a mould rinsed in cold water, and let stand till firm. , (103) SPANISH JELLY. !•! ■ !' I pint Jelly (as per Recipe l or ^ oz. Pistachio Nuts (blanched !■ 3)' and free from skin). || I pint of any Cream (such as A few drops Cox’s Cochineal. ’ Vanilla, Peach, Ginger, etc). [I Pour the cream smoothly on two dishes, and colour one with the cochineal. When cold, stamp it out in pretty shapes with a small I fancy cutter. Pour about two inches of the jelly into a mould, and ! let set, then scatter in the rounds of cream and a few whole pistachio nuts with enough jelly to set them. Let stand till firm, then continue to fill the mould with alternate layers of the jelly and rounds of cream until the mould is full. Let stand until set, then turn out quickly on to a cold dish. Serve with slightly sweetened whipped cream round (if a border mould is used, in the centre). ' Colour some of the cream pink and sprinkle over it some finely chopped pistachio nuts. This mould should be made at a time when jellies and creams are being made, when the remains of both could I be advantageously used. (104) CHOCOLATE MOULD (the Children’s Favourite). f oz Cox’s Gelatine. 2 ozs. Lump Sugar. li ozs. Chocolate Powder. A few drops Cox’s Vanilla Es- Thinly pared rind of i Lemon. sence. li pints Milk. J gill of Water. Put the milk into a stewpan with the sugar and lemon rind, boil up gently and remove the rind. Mix the chocolate with the boiling milk. Soak the Gelatine in the water for about ten minutes and dissolve slowly over the fire, then strain it into the mixture and add the vanilla essence. Siir occasionally until the mixttire thickens, and set in a mould previously rinsed in cold water. When firm, turn out and serve. I