44 greater part of the thickness of the right leg with Macewen’s osteotome.”—Medical Press and Circular^ 27th April, 1881, p. 352. In a discussion on Osteotomy, before the Surgical Society of Ireland, 18th March, 1881, Mr. Stokes, Dublin, referring to the nse of “ Macewen’s osteotome,” said that:— “ He had an opportunity of seeing the third of the cases Mr. Bennet had recorded, and he conld bear testimony to the admir- able resnlt that had been obtained. It spoke volumes for the great practicability of the instrument already mentioned.”— Medical Press ami Circtdar, 27th April, 1881, p. 359. In a paper entitled “Macewen’s Operation for Genu Valgum,” by Fred. Alcock Nixon, F.E.C.S.I., Surgeon to Mercer’s Hospital, and Lecturer on Anatomy in the Ledwich School of Medicine, Dublin, the following occurs :— “ Of the operations proposed by Barwell, Reeves, Ogston, Chiene, Ac., Macewen’s appears to me by far the safest and best. It is well above the important structures which secure the articu- lation, and it leaves the epiphysis intact, and so obviates the danger of arrest of development of the bone : still the results obtainable are highly satisfactory.”—Medical Press and Circular, nth May, 1881, p. 401. In a discussion in the Surgical Society of Ireland, 1st April, on “Macewens Operation for Genu Valgum,” Mr. Kendal Franks mentions that he had performed the operation twice and gave details. Mr. Bennet stated :—“ Speaking generally, the great principle of Macewen’s operation was first of all that it was a section made with an osteotome or chisel without any cle'bris from the saw, and while made through an open wound, still a limited one, and not such as would be made for an excision of the knee. On this point he might fairly criticise Mr. Nixon’s communication and dispute the priority he claimed in the performance of Macewen’s operation, for it would be recollected that he had himself brought forward on the last night of meeting a paper in which he treated of three cases, including four operations by Macewen’s method in distinct localities; two on the tibia for deformity of the tibia, the type of Macewen’s operation.”