24 great stride made in this direction by Dr. Macewen of Glasgow The case of inter-human osseous transplantation, in which over two-thirds of the humerus was restored, and an account of which was communicated to the Royal Society last year, is one which must stand out in bold relief in the history of this new departure in operative surgery, one which is with many others an outcome, indirectly perhaps, but not the less a result of antiseptic surgery. From the experience derived from observing the progress towards good union, and without pus production of bad compound, comminuted fractures, when pieces of bone completely separated, and even detached from periosteum, have, after being antisepti- cised, been replaced, lived, and eventually reunited to the neigh- bouring osseous structures tends, as Macewen has pointed out, to show the probability of transplanted bone living. . . . The case, however, which I am glad to say I had the opportunity of examining, is so pregnant of interest, and so suggestive, that it must serve as an incentive to further effort, to guide and encourage those working in this direction.—British Medical Journal^ August, 12, 1882. Read before the British Medical Association. IV.—The Pupil in its Semiological Aspects. The International Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1887. The paper is noticed in many foreign journals, and it is translated in full into Portuguese. 0 Correio Medico de Lisboa.—A pupilla nos sens aspectos semeiologicos, por William Macewen, cirurgiao e lente de cirurgia da Real Enfermaria, e cirurgiflo do Hospital das crean^as, em Glasgow. V.—Two Papers on “ Intka-Cranial Lesions—illustrating SOME POINTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE LOCALIZATION OF Cerebral Affections and Antiseptic Trephining.” Published in the Lancet, 24th September and 1st October, 1881. This work is referred to in the following way in a Leader in the British Medical Journal, 26th November, 1881 :— “The work of Hughlings Jackson and of Charcot, leaders of the school of nerve pathology in their respective countries, has