14 to a glorious and beneficent future All honour to the surgeon who has so ably and so successfully led the way in this grand undertaking! The Lancet’s Leader on the Address on the Surgery of the Brain and Syinal Cord. Dr. Macewen’s address is worthy of unqualified praise. The subject^ of which he is a master, has been argued with all the skill of a special pleader and summed up with the studied im- partiality of an experienced judge. The profession has received by instalments the record of Dr. Macewen’s experience in the operative surgery of the brain and spinal cord. It now has pre- sented to it in a more complete yet concise form a recital of his practice. In his earlier passages he sketches the history of the development of the regional and local anatomy of the brain, and then proceeds to exemplify the way in which he has turned his knowledge of that anatomy to practical ends. It seems strange at first sight that cerebral surgery should have been neglected so long, for it is only within the last few years that anything has been attempted in this field except in cases of traumatism, and even then the guide^to interference was the rough-and-ready one furnished by external appearances and general nervous derange- ment, rather than by a well-regulated study of ‘‘localisation.” The success that has attended Dr. Macewen’s operations on the brain, whether in cases of injury or idiopathic disease, has been, we might almost say, phenomenal, and our readers will under- stand this when they consider the extreme gravity of the symptoms, and the inherent difficulties that beset the necessary operative procedures. We are entirely at one with him in his protest against the indiscriminate performance of operations in all cases, even where a coarse anatomical lesion can be diagnosed and reached. A patient troubled with epileptiform seizures can scarcely be advised to barter his present infirmity for paralysis, which may be total and must be abiding, or, as Dr. Macewen pithily puts it, for the equivalent of amputation at the hip and shoulder joints, since this would be the result of removing large wedges of the cerebral cortex. We cannot recommend too highly the lecturer’s honesty in publishing the fact that, having exposed