12 of the hiunan voice, he at once recognised it to be a man, who was one of his fellow-workers. By eyesight he could not tell how many fingers he held up when he placed his own hand before his face, though by the exercise of his volition in the act, and by his own sensations, he was cognisant of the number . . . These phenomena gave the key to the hidden lesion in his brain. On operation the angular gyrus was exposed, and it was found that a portion of the internal table of the skull had been detached from the outer, and had exercised pressure on the posterior portion of the supra-marginal convolution, while a corner of it had penetrated and lay imbedded in the anterior portion of the angular gyrus. The bone was removed from the brain and reimplanted in proper position, after which he became greatly relieved in his mental state, though still excitable. He had made no further allusion to his homicidal tendencies—which previously were obtrusive—and is now at work.” A case such as this, is, indeed, a triumph of surgery, and one which a very short time since would have been regarded as a mere impossibility, but surgery has achieved such wonders lately that it is difficult to say now what is im})ossible. Much more in Dr. Macewen’s experience of cerebral surgery deserves quotation and remark, such as the possibility of removing large portions of the motor area of the brain; the method of avoiding inflammation and false hernia cerebri after operation; the reimplantation of bone to fill the hiatus in the skull left by injury or made by operation ; and the aid to diagnosis which may be furnished by the percussion-note of the skull; but we must refrain. As to the operative surgery of the spinal column. Dr. Macewen mentions six cases in which the posterior arches of the vertebrae have been removed, four for the relief of paraplegia caused by pressure on the spinal cord. In reference to this he remarks :— ‘‘The spinal membranes and the cord itself can be exposed, and neoplasms and encroachments upon the lumen of the canal may be removed therefrom without unduly hazarding life. Such interference is unsparingly condemned by writers on the subject, their remarks, however, being applied to injuries, as no such operations have been hitherto contemplated in idiopathic cases. They contend that they are full of danger, being difficult, pro- longed, and attended by profuse haemorrhage; secondly, that the