39 the shaft of the femur above the joint and without risk of inter- fering with it; and I never take up our operation list and read therein, as I do almost every week, of one or more “ Macewen’s operations for Genu Valgum” to be performed, without thinking how happy both surgeon and patient ought to feel that the one operation has superseded the other. “ Since the day I performed the first Ogstoifs operation, no fewer than sixty-nine such operations have been performed in this Infirmary; and though Macewen’s operation is the newer proceed- ing, I learn from the records of the institution that it too has been performed two hundred and eleven times, and so successful have both operations been that out of all this great number only two have died—one from pysemia due to the operation, and one from scarlet fever contracted after the operation and during the process of healing. And of other sections of bones for the cure of deformities I could give you a long list (236 which have been done in the same time). Of the satisfaction they have afforded me I can give 3mu no comprehensible idea; but I can congratulate you, and I do very heartily, that a means of safely effecting untold good and of mitigating indescribable misery has by the experience of the last few years been placed at your disposal.”— British Medical Journal, May 22nd, 1886, p. 962. Mr. Willet, Surgeon to Saint Bartholomews Hospital, London, in the Saint Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. XX. 1884. Residts of a hundred Osteotomies with Remarks.” ‘‘ Out of 82 Osteotomies upon 49 patients, 79 upon 47 patients were performed by Macewen’s method”—p. 64. “All the re- maining operations have been in accordance with that devised by and now universally called after Dr. Macewen of Glasgow. Hav- ing performed almost eighty operations after this method, without any accident or incident, I have naturally nothing but the highest praise to bestow upon it, as in my hands a safe, simple, and certain operation in all ordinary cases of Genu Valgum or Genu Varum.— Again I may affirm that no patient has been made even tempor- arily ill by the operation and not one has caused me a day’s uneasiness.”