13 operation could hardly benefit the patient; and, thirdly, that no one has yet been able to present a successful case. Each of those points has now lost its validity. “The first operations of this kind were undertaken by me for the relief of paraplegia due to angular curvature of the spine. In such cases pressure maj^ be exerted on the cord either by connective tissue neoplasms, or by direct displacement of the bodies of the vertebrae, both lessening the lumen of the canal. He illustrates this point by the description of a case in which paraplegia, with incontinence of urine and faeces, was completely cured by removal of the laminae of three dorsal vertebrae and a subjacent connective tissue tumour, and another similar case is referred to. Two similar cases, however, terminated fatally, in which the temperature before operation was irregular, indicating, it was thought, some activity in the tubercular disease at other parts of the cord. “ Since this experience no case has been deemed fit for operation in which the temperature did not run an even, regular, and continuous afebrile course.” The other two cases were—-one in which an abscess in the posterior mediastinum was successfully opened, and one in which paraplegia from traumatism was cured by elevating the arch of the twelfth dorsal vertebra and a subjacent mass of connective tissue. “ Here are, therefore,” says Dr. Macewen, “ six cases in which elevation of the posterior laminse of the vertebrae has been per- formed. Four of these have completely recovered and two have died; one of those from extension of tubercular disease, months after the operation, and after the wound had healed, leaving one in which the operation possibly hastened the death of a patient, who was otherwise in a painfully helpless and hopeless con- dition. “ Such operations are now beginning to be practised by others. Mr. Horsley has within the last year published a successful case, in which a somewhat similar operation has been performed, for the removal of a small tumour of the theca, diagnosed by Dr. Gowers.” With these samples of Dr. Macewen’s Address, our readers will not think us extravagant in saying that it marks an epoch in surgery, the initial stage of a branch of our art obviously destined