46 James F. West, FJv.C.S,, Senior Surgeon to the Queen’s Hos- pital, Birmingliam, writes in Thomas Hospital Reports^ vol. x., p. 7, 1880:— “The brilliant results obtained by Dr. Macewen, of Glasgow, by antiseptic treatment are especially worthy of notice.” Then follows quotation. W. Watson Cheyne, F.R.C.S., Demonstrator on Surgical Path- ology at King’s College, London, in his work on Antiseptic Surgery, says, after quoting Lister statistics :— “ I shall now consider the results obtained by other surgeons, 0 and I shall take first, as being the most remarkable result as yet published, the statement made by Dr. Macewen in the Lancet for 18th September, 1880. He there gives the result of all the cases in which he has made compound fractures aseptically ”; p. 504. At page 488 he gives several satisfactory results of Macewen’s operation for genu valgum performed by Lister. T. Llolnies, M.A. (Cantab.), *Yice-President, Section Diseases of Children, International Medical Congress, London, 1881, in sum- ming up discussions on genu valgum, said :—“ He felt bound, however, to acknowledge the efficiency of the method, and that Dr. Macewen had made a distinct advance in surgery.”—The Lancet, 20th August, 1881, p. 331. Professor Yolkmann, of Halle, in his address on the “ Changes which Surgery has undergone during the last Ten Years,” delivered at the International Medical Congress, London, says :— “ Bone and marrow will submit to every kind of treatment without putrefying and without suppuration. Orthopoedics cele- brated their greatest triumphs in the saving and straightening of limbs. We read that Mr. Macewen alone has performed 833 osteotomies, of which 827 were healed without suppuration; and he lost no patient from the operation itself or its consequences.” —The Lancet, 13th August, 1881, pp. 281-283. / IX. Radical Cure of Oblique Inguinal Hernia by Internal Abdominal Peritoneal Pad and Restoration of the Valved Form of the Inguinal Canal. Published in the Annals of Surgery, 1888, also in the British Medical Journal, 1887.