41 elsewhere the great Wellington said, victory, when traceable to the leader, has depended upon attention to the smallest details.” Page 161.—“It is right to say that the many surgeons who, notwithstanding that their particular methods of procedure have not prevailed, have had a share in advancing step by step from the bold, yet coarse, sawing method and large cutaneous incisions resorted to by Ehea Barton and Mayor to the almost subcutaneous method employed by Adams, the more cutaneous method of the chisel introduced for knee anchyloses by Mr. Little, and the numerous cases of in-knee relieved by that method by Dr. Mace wen, have conferred a great blessing on humanity,” Request for permission for Italian Translation of Work on Osteotomy. Ospedale Maggiore di S. Giovanni Battista E della Citta di Torino. Most Honoured Sir, Having been assistant to Dr. Margary for the last three years at St. John’s Hospital at Turin, I have had the pleasure of witnessing the splendid results of osteotomy in its most varied applications. I have myself performed, thanks to the liberal compliance of my kind principal, many osteotomies with great success. You will therefore find it natural that I should feel enthusiasm for this beneficent means of surgical therapeutics; and as your name is bound with that of osteotomy, as the name of the author is united with that of his work, you will readily imagine the feel ing of profound esteem and admiration which I entertain for your- self and which I desire to avow openly and frankly. Unfortunately osteotomy has not hitherto found in Italy its well deserved welcome, thanks to the fossil nature of official public teaching, and also to the deplorable results of operations undertaken without that strict and I would say that due and even pedantic observance of those precepts which will carry to poster- ity your valuable and standard work. It is my firm conviction that surgery in Italy would be greatly advanced by the translation of your book, therefore I ask your permission and authority to allow such translation.