26 to concerning the various methods of operating for genu valgum. There had now been sufficient time given and sufficient experience of these operations to enable surgeons to arrive at some definite understanding regarding them. He had himself operated by Macewen’s method a considerable number of times, and in such a way as to enable him to form a definite opinion on comparison of the methods. He had operated on one side of the body by his own method, and on the other side by Macewen’s operation, exactly as described by its author; and he was forced to come to the conclusion that for simplicity and good result Macewen’s method was better than that which he had himself advocated. He had not for himself altogether given up his own operation, chiefly because when one got into the habit of doing a particular operation, one did not like to throw it overboard altogether, being familiar with it. But he had for some years past told his students that Macewen’s operation was the best, and he wished to make to that meeting of the Congress a similar announcement. He would advise every person who wished to osteotomize for genu valgum to adopt it in preference to his own (Dr. Ogston’s). He had found that the Glerman surgeons, even those who had at first adopted his own operation enthusiastically, had now given it up in favour of Macewen’s, as the better and simpler operation of the two. Professor Chiene (Edinburgh) said that after what he had heard, he thought it right to state that although he coidd not go the length of Professor Ogston, in entirely throwing up his own operation, still he would give Dr. Macewen’s operation a fair trial on his return to Edinburgh. He thought that in all likelihood he would be able to report as favourably as Professor Ogston had done concerning it. It was, however, after all, the profession that were the judges of the merits and demerits of these opera- tions ; and they had seen from the statistics, which had been given in that section, and he also knew it to be the fact, that his own (Mr. Chiene’s) operation, whatever he might think of it himself, had not commended itself to the profession generally. Professor Schede (Hamburg) said he had put forward an operation for genu valgum which had gone by his name, and which he still practised in some cases. But in practising osteotomy for genu valgum he had not done so in the way he had adopted at first so often as he had previously done, but had