27 substituted for his own the operation of Macewen, and had by that method obtained excellent results. He thought in many instances that the tibia was involved, and he, therefore, in these cases, performed his own operation. But there was no doubt that there was a large number of pathological points showing that the femur alone was involved in a great many cases, and in some equally so with the tibia. He differed with Dr. Macewen in this respect, that in doing his operation he did not use several chisels, as was recommended in Macewen’s work on Osteotomy, but only one, thinking the withdrawal of the instrument from the wound was a serious matter, inasmuch as it sometimes led to a disturbance of the parts, and to a difficulty of reintroduction of the instrument. But along with all German surgeons he accepted Maceweifs operation. Mr. Bryant (London) said he thought the section, after hearing what had been said, would scarcely find it necessary to discuss further the relative value of the operations. They would all agree that Macewen’s operation had been proved to be the best by statistics, and also by the fact that the authors of the other methods had now practically given them up. He must say for himself that he had used Macewen’s operation many times with very great success, and it was gaining ground where previously Ogston’s operation had been practised. He was sure the section would endorse what had been said about Macewen’s operation being the best one; but he could not sit down Avithout expressing the very great pleasure he felt at the manner in which the other gentlemen had given up what he might call their pet operations. Professor Ogston had done this with the greatest possible grace, and he was sure the section Avould aAvard him and the others a vote of thanks for the manner in which they had acted. Leading Article in the Lancet, October 11, 1884, on Osteotomy. “ Our readers will have noticed that the treatment of genu valgum by osteotomy was one of the subjects specially chosen for discussion at the recent meeting of the International Medical Congress at Copenhagen. Fortunately, Dr. MaceAven Avas chosen to introduce the subject, and we were able to give his paper in full in our columns a fortnight ago. He has from the first