38 In an Editorial on “ The Antiseptic Problem,” which appears in the Annals of Anatomy and Surgery^ New York, February, 1881, the following apj)ears :— “ The most startling and suggestive facts in connection with the subject of Listerism are to be found in the notorious impunity with which its advocates now perform operations formerly con- sidered so dangerous as to be unjustifiable, except in extreme necessity. Most especially the so-called ‘ operations of exped- iency ’ came under this head of unjustifiable operations. Now, however, under the protection of antisepsis, these operations are undertaken without thought of risk Macewen of Glasgow fur- nishes some figures sufficient to awaken the careful thought of every practical physician. [Here the editor quotes Macewen’s statistics, and then follows.] Here is food for reflection! One surgeon performs 557 operations without a single death fairly attributed to the operation ; yet, not many years ago, no surgeon would have undertaken one of these operations without running the greatest danger of destroying the patient’s life, and irretriev- ably ruining his own reputation.” VHI.—Opinion of Surgeons on Macewen’s Operation for Genu Valgum and Remarks on the Statistics of the Operations. Extracts from a Clinical Lecture on Deformities of the Skeleton and their treatment by general and surgical means, by G. G. Wheelhouse, F.E.C.S., Considtimg Surgeon to the General Infirmary, Leeds. Delivered before the students of the Yorkshire College, Leeds. While speaking of evils which may arise from Ogston’s opera- tion he says—“ Neither of these evils has, however, I am even now thankful to tell you, ever happened to me, and often as I have performed it within these walls before I resigned my active surgeoncy I never really saw any serious consequences follow it. Nevertheless it was a day of rejoicing with me when 1 was able to supersede it by the more efficacious and unquestionably less dangerous method proposed by Dr. Macewen, of simpl}' dividing