40 Cases of Osteotomy, by Heyienstal Ormshy, F.R.G.S.I., M.D., Lecturer on Clinical and Opercdive Surgery, and Surgeon to the Meath Hospital and County Dublin Infir- mary; Surgeon to the Childrens Hospitcd, Dublin. (''Dublin Journal of Medical Sciencef April, 1885.j “ The operation I always ])erform to correct genu valgum is Macewen’s, as I believe it to be the best, the simplest, and the one most likely to be followed by success in rectifying the deformity. It is also not likely to be succeeded by any articular disease or impairment in the knee joint. I believe that I have performed the operation of osteotomy more frequently than any other surgeon in Ireland, and I am happy to say that up to the present I have not had a single bad result.” Medical and Surgical Aspects of In-hnee {Genu Valgum), its relation td Rickets, its prevention and its treatment with and without surgical operation. By W. J. Little, M.D., Surgeon, F.R.C.P. London : Longmans, Green & Co., Paternoster Row. 1882. Page 152.—“It is unnecessary to review here the-several methods of severing the thigh bone for severe in-knee, or the leg- bones when curvature of these complicates the knee distortion, or has become the main deformity, which has been carried out by Annandale, Ogston, Reeves, Barwell, and others, for in our opinion, the method pursued by Macewen is destined to supplant them all by its simplicity, celerity of performance, safety, and, moreover, by the perfection of its results. We have not only perused all that this surgeon has written on the subject, but have had the opportunity afforded by him of witnessing his perform- ance of a double operation, at a private seance at Glasgow, and of thoroughly examining several adolescent patients and an adult, who had been operated on some months, and in one case two years previously. Even in the adult, who had been one of the most seriously affected, practised eyes and hands failed to dis- cover more than the faintest sign that in-knee had ever existed.” Page 154.—“We have here described the principal points in Macewen’s proceeding. Simple as they are, we strongly advise every surgeon about to operate by this method for the first time, to study all the minor points insisted upon by him; for here, as