23 recorded, the successful operator being Dr. Macewen of Glasgow.” [Here follows particulars of the transplantation.] “ The history of this first case tends to prove that there is nothing to prevent this method of repair from being extensively resorted to in the future. That it opens up a prospect of far reaching benefits is at once plain. . . .” This memoir on Osseous Transplantation was translated into French by the direction of the Editors of the Revue tie CMrurgie, and appeared in that Journal in January, 1881. It is reviewed in the Revue Scieniijique, 25th March, 1882, No. 12, p. 379.—“Je signalerai dans la Revue de CMrurgie du 10 Janvier, 1882, un int6ressant travail de M. W. Macewen, chirurgien et professeur a Glascow. Ce travail est relatif a la Transplantation OsseuseT . . . The concluding sentence is :— “ C’est dire que la pratique de M. Macewen merite des encourage- ments sOfieux.” / Fondamenti della CMrurgia Moderna e delV Insegnamento Clinico. Prolusione al corso di clinica chirurgica nella R. Universita di Parma, letta dal Professore Andrea Ceccherelli il di 4 Dicembre, 1882. Translation.—Page 11. At present the most important question is bone grafting, the transference of a piece of bone from one part to another, with the view of fixing itself there, growing and forming at last one mass with the other bone to which it has adhered. To Ollier and Macewen belong the honour of intro- ducing this method, which has already passed from the sphere of experimental physiology into that of clinical practice. Extract from the Address in Surgery at the British Medical Association, 1882, by Sir William Stokes, F.R.C.S.I., Professor of Surgery, Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland, President of the Pcdhological Society of Ireland. At page 259 he refers to Macewen’s views on periosteum. At page 260 he states as follows :—As regards bone trans- plantation I cannot speak from any personal experience, but in connection with this all-important subject 1 must allude to the