31 Swedish YKanslatum. the details of the operation for Genu Valgum, introduced by the author, are translated into Swedish by Dr. Rossander, Pro- fessor of Surgery, Stockholm. ♦ * Roumanian Translation. A translation into Roumanian has been published in Bucharest, to which the following conclusion is formulated :—In genuchiul valg, osteotomie atinge, ca sa die asa,-a.pogeul resultatelor favora- bile. In ac4sta deviatiune, mai cu seama osteotomie supra- condiliena a lui Macewen, este acea care se aplica intr’un mod aprope sigur si care nu aduce nici o complicatiune. V^duta, buna de imprimat, Presedinte Dr. Severeanu. Vedut Rectorele Uni- versitatei, Dr. I. Zalomit. Reviews on this Work. “This book is worthy of the closest study by surgeons. It deals with a subject in which great advances have been made of late years. It is the work of a gentleman who has made valuable contributions to its literature, of one who evidently writes from an experimental knowledge of the matter. “ Dr. Macewen—and it is a great pleasure to an American to be able to speak of so good a surgeon as doctor—writes in a singularly simple and unpretentious way, which makes the, reader feel as if he was being talked to, and at once brings him into close sympathy with the writer. [Then follow four pages of extracts.] “ We have sufficiently expressed our opinion of the value of this book. Its appearance of candour and fairness must commend it to every one who studies it, and it is based upon such an amount of experience as entitles the conclusions of its author to most respectful consideration. No one will read far into it without seeing that the author’s object has not been to make a book, but that he has written because he has something to say. He has said it well, and the profession is a gainer ,by what Dr. Macewen has written. There are very many new books; but it is our fortune to meet with few that are like this one, a fair statement of original work and accurate observation, and therefore of great value.”—The American Journal of Medical Science., 1881; pp. 177-182.