33 Macewen’s statistics]. “ In cities where rickets is endemic, surgeons already know, and are familiar with many of these facts, for the operation and its successes are already well known to them.’’ “Some years ago any surgeon who proposed such treatment would have been condemned as reckless, and rightly so, for the results of the present day could not have been then obtained.” ‘ The times are changed and we are changed with them.’ ” “Dr. Macewen gives in clear and graphic language the description of the details of his operations. All these details the reader who wishes to profit by Dr. Macewen’s book must study the original; to quote from the author would, if our review were to give useful information, require that we quoted the practical chapters at length; to abridge the author’s description would be impossible.” — Dublin Journal of Medical Science, Dec., 1880; pp. 508-510. “ Whatever may be the exact conditions existing in genu valgum, the malady can be undoubtedly remedied by an osteo- tomy through the lower end of the shaft of the femur, as first advocated and practised by Dr. Macewen, and performed several hundred times with only a fatality of three, and these due to causes unconnected with the operations. . . . The results here recorded are ample proofs of the dexterity of the operator and the efficacy of Listerism.”—London Medical Decord, 15th March, 1881. “ It may as well be said at once that Mr. Macewen has pro- duced a creditable, impartial, and intelligible work, in which little of moment has been omitted. His language is that of boldness and honesty, and can nowhere be charged with being egotistical, although this might well have been pardoned in one whose name is so intimately connected with the osteotomy of to- day.” “ Mr. Macewen has carefully studied the materials he disposed of, on purpose to improve the knowledge we previously had, and has furnished many new, full, and strikingly interesting chapters, regarding the effects of chronic diseases, epidemic diseases, mater- nal health, etc., on the production of such deformities.” c