29 tage he might derive from the operation were the surgeon better versed in its detail or more confident of its value. Dr. Mac- ewen insists that the operation should never be performed until after the stage of ramollissement has passed off, and in this he will, of course, be supported by every careful surgeon. The earliest age at which he has operated for genu valgum has been seven years, and he has extended the advantages of the operation to patients as old as forty-seven. From the very large number of cases recorded by some surgeons, and their remark- able success, it is not allowable to infer that the operation is devoid of difficulty or of danger, and already instances have been published of mishaps, owing to neglect of proper j)recau- tions. If the chisel be insecurely held, or driven in a wrong direction, or the section of the parts be made at a wrong level, it is not surprising if the results differ seriously from those -obtained when all those precautions are duly observed. The reason why Dr. Macewen and others can show an almost un- broken success in their long list of cases is that each case has been the object of special care ; familiarity with the details of the operation has not been allowed to beget neglect of any necessary precaution. Those who would attain like success must adopt the same means, must regard osteotomy as an operation demanding special care in its management, and not as a simple ‘ chipping of a bone ’ which can be accomplished in any fashion. “ The large number of cases recorded by Dr. Macewen, Dr. Ogston, and other surgeons, has now settled the position of this operation as far as statistics can do it. The safety of the pro- cedure has been abundantly demonstrated, and it is only neces- sary to insist upon the importance of carefully observing all the precautions indicated by experienced operators.” « VII.—Treatise on Osteotomy. Osteotomy, with an inquiry into the Etiology and Pathology of Knock Knee, Bow Legs, and other Osseous Deformities of the Lower Limbs. London : J. & A. Churchill. 1880. Pp. 181. German Translation. Shortly after the issue of this Work, Dr. Richard Wittelshofer