15 the brain, and found a widely and deeply extended lesion, he has desisted from completing the operation. Nor is the extent of removal of the brain-substance the sole factor in the determination of the performance or avoidance of an operation, since, as Dr. Mace wen shows, after the brain* has been exposed, even though healing goes on uninterruptedly and well, the cerebral substance is likely to remain anchored to the skull directly or by the medium of its adherent membranes. In this way disturbance of the cerebral circulation is likely to arise, the brain being no longer free to ride upon its water bed, and to adjust itself to the varying strain that muscular action is continually imposing upon it. We are glad to see it insisted upon that false hernia cerebri consecutive to encephalitis is not necessarily dependent on the septic condition of a Avound, but that it may arise from the irri- tation caused by the tension of tumour. Dr. MaceAven states a case Avhere, on incising the dura^ mater over a new groAvth, the surrounding tissue affected b}^ red softening at once protruded through the trephine aperture. In conclusion, Ave make favour- able mention of the author’s discriminating remarks upon the question of opening the spinal canal for the removal of a tumour or inflammatory neoplasm, or for eleA^ation of bone depressed by injury or misplaced by caries. It is obvious that in such cases a careful consideration of the nature and duration of the symptoms, of the relief likely to be attained, and of the chances of failure or fatality, must be made before the surgeon is justified in under- taking Avhat must be admitted to be a dangerous operation.— The Lancet, August 18th, 1888, vol. ii., p. 329. Leader in the Glasgow Medical Jouknal. Dr. William Macewen delivered an address on the “ Surgery of the Brain and Spinal Cord,” Avhich, as has been truly said, by the British Medical Journal, “marks an epoch in surgery, the initial stage of a branch of our art obviously destined to a glorious and beneficent future.” The address Avas delivered to a croAvded audience, Avho folloAved the speaker Avith intense interest from beginning to end, and Avho on the motion of a vote of thanks aAvarded him a mead of applause which, it is not too much to say,