34 “ In the part of his work devoted to the treatment of deformi- ties by osteotomy, Mr. Macewen is singularly just and impartial. He gives due })rominence to the opinions and works of others, who have also studied the subject often in opposition to himself. His description of the operations of others and of his own operations are very lucid and liap})y ; not an ambiguous phrase or word mars the pleasure of the reader, and no second glance is needed to assist the understanding. The writing is here indeed excellent; although we may differ from him in some of his state- ments, it would be unfair to mix the praise which it must com- mand with a hint of any unimportant personal difference of opinion.’’ AVe feel that, on the whole, the verdict of the profession regarding it will be an eminently favourable one.”— Glasgow Medical Journal^ December, 1880, pp. 499-502. “ Dr. Mace wen’s name is well known in connection with osteo- tomy, and any collective work on this subject from his pen is sure of a thoughtful consideration from the profession generally. . . . The book before us is a critical summary of most that has been done in this country and abroad in the operative treat- ment of the deformities resulting from rickets, together with a pathological survey of the aetiology of the disease. It would be interesting, therefore, from this point of view, but coming as it does from one who has had large personal opportunities for studying the subject and applying the various remedies, we may look for both help and guidance, such as may be safely relied upon. The book is fully illustrated, and its general appearance is beyond praise. ...” “ The book will repay careful perusal, and we recommend it to the notice of all surgeons.”— Medical Times and Gazette, London, 25th December, 1880.” “ The work before us is the first which has appeared on the subject, and is written by one whose great personal experience entitles him to speak with some authority.” “ It seems to us that the best operation for the correction of genu valgum is that of the author. It is much easier to perform than Keeves’.” “ In closing, we cannot but congratulate the author on the very