9 the following of the experience of a single surgeon, and to know that these operations were undertaken not only to relieve the immediate and direct effects of injury, but also as curative methods in the most various affections, some consequent on old injury, others owning no known cause. Here are Hr. Macewen’s statistics:—“ Of twenty-one cerebral cases (exclusive of fractures of the skull or other immediate effect of injury) in which operations have been performed by me, there have been three deaths and eighteen recoveries. Of those who died, all were in extremis when operated on. Two were for abscess of the brain, in one of which the pus had already burst into the lateral ventricles; in the other, suppurative thrombosis of the lateral sinus had previously led to pysemia and septic pneumonia. The third case was one in which there existed, besides a large sub- dural cyst over the one hemisphere, extensive softening at the seat of cerebral contusion on the opposite hemisphere, accom- panied by oedema of the brain. Of the eighteen who recovered, sixteen are still alive in good health, and most at work, leaving two who have since died, one eight years after the operation, from Bright’s disease, she in the interval being quite well and able to work ; the other forty-seven days after the operation, after the abscess was perfectly healed, from an acute attack of tubercular enteritis.” The conditions which have rendered possible this great advance in surgery are stated by our author as two, namely, (1) the absence of consecutive inflammation of the brain and its membranes after operation, due to the improved operative methods of modern surgery; and (2) the possibility of inferring the locality of a limited irritating lesion in the accessible portions of the brain which has been brought about by the researches of modern pathologists, dating from Broca’s discovery in 1861. Of these pathologists perhaps the first place is due to our countrymen, Hughlings Jackson and Ferrier, and it is only right to remember the great part which direct experiment has borne in producing this inestimable advance in surgery which has already achieved much in saving life, and what is even dearer than life, and which promises so much more in the future. These researches have established (to use Dr. Macewen’s words) the great fact that “there are certain regions of the brain in intimate relation with the movement and sensation of certain