28 been most honourably associated with this department of surgi- cal practice, and the record he was able to give of his results was truly remarkable. We must refer our readers to the paper itself for all the details of the picture, and must merely repeat here some of the leading facts. Dr. Macewen has performed Osteotomy for genu valgum 820 times, and in 810 instances has performed the supracondyloid section of the femur which bears his name. Death has followed the operation in five cases, l^ut in no one instance was it directly traceable to the operation. Suppuration occurred in eight instances, but during the last three years in all the cases the wound has healed without the formation of pus. In all cases the operation has effected a cor- rection of deformity and improvement in the strength and utility of the limb, while relapse, even to a slight extent, was only observed in one or two. The records of other varieties of osteotomies for genu valgum are also very good, but we cannot doubt that Dr. Macewen’s supracondyloid operation is destined to supersede them all on account of its safety and success, and also because it appears to be founded on more cor- rect pathological data than its rivals. ‘‘It is surprising to notice with what rapidity osteotomy has been adopted into general surgical practice. Dr. Macewen speaks of having performed it 1800 times, and there are other surgeons who can record their cases by hundreds. This fact is one of the strongest proofs of the great advance of operative surgery, and especially of the treatment of recent wounds. That one surgeon can record a series of 1800 compound fractures—for that is the effect of the operation—without a single instance of pyaemia, septicaemia, or of any fatal wound complication, is a fact that nothing but the more generally known results of scientific wound treatment would make credible. The operation was at first viewed with suspicion by many surgeons, and those who prac- tised it largely were thought to employ it with unnecessary frequency, being tempted to accomplish quickly what might be attained by other and milder measures at an expenditure of more time. This was no new experience, but only an expression of opinion of the two great surgical parties that always exist. AVe see no reason why osteotomy ought to be abused in this manner more than many another surgical procedure, and perhaps there is quite as great a danger of withholding from a patient the advan-