32 “ Dr. Macewen has operated on 367 limbs affected with knock- knee. In no case has he lost a patient from the operation. Several of the woodcuts in this book show the excellent result that follows after the supra-condyloid operation, which method, devised by himself, he believes to be the best. After such an extensive acquaintance with knock-knee and other deformities of the lower limbs, we must necessarily read with interest Dr. Macewen’s opinion on the causation of these deformities.” “ Dr. Macewen is an earnest follower of Lister’s treatment, and believes that ‘what the subcutaneous principle did for tenotomy antiseptics has done for osteotomy.’ After operating on a very large number of cases he is fully justified in believing ‘ that b}^ a strict observance of antiseptics, osteotomy may be performed with perfect immunity from inflammator}^ products, and a compound incision or fracture of bone may be regarded as a simple one.’ Dr. Macewen’s success seems to us to be one of the most important supports which Mr. Lister’s doctrines have yet received in the domain of practical surgery. Dr. Macewen’s remarks on the method of operating and the instruments used are worthy of the most careful consideration, and if surgeons adopt his method of relieving the deformity, they should take great care to follow his instructions to the letter. He is justified in asking this when his invariable success is taken into consideration.” . . . . “This book should be carefully studied by every surgeon before he performs osteotomy in knock-knee. The most valuable portion of the work is that part which describes Dr. Macewen’s operation. ... It may be that Dr. Macewen’s method will ultimately turn out to be the best. In the meantime it is not proved, although there can be no doubt of this, that Dr. Macewen’s great success, of which he and the Glasgow School of Surgery have very great reason to be proud, must weigh greatly with surgeons in coming to a conclusion on the best way to relieve a distressing and common deformity, to which so many of the poorer classes in our large manufacturing centres are subject.”— Edinburgh Medical Journcd, December, 1880; pp. 546-548. “ Dr. Macewen’s book will be read with interest and advantage by all practical surgeons. ... Dr. Macewen furnishes facts sufficient to startle many a practical surgeon’’—[here follow