17 aperture or superficial swelling on the surface of the head to guide the surgeon as to the seat of the abscess, but simply and solely from the local and general symptoms manifested by the patient, a collection of matter in the brain or inside of the skull may be diagnosed, reached, and drained with complete success. In this way a number of patients have been restored to health, even from the very jaws of death. Dr. William Macewen, of this city, has operated in seven cases where he trephined and drained abscesses in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, by which operation he has saved five lives. “ You will, I trust, have the opportunity of seeing two of Dr. Macewen’s cases ; the one having been treated eighteen months ago, and the other three months ago. In one case operated upon by Dr. Macewen, while the results of the operation were entirely satisfactory, the patient, a little girl, died some time after from peritonitis, and I had the opportunity of seeing the brain, the cicatrix marking the position of the abscess, which after being drained had entirely healed, leaving only the cicatrix behind. “The general surgeon has thus come to our aid, and it is for us now to earnestly co-operate with him, and to watch most carefully every case of purulent ear disease which may develop symptoms of extension to the interior of the cranium, and, without undue delay, to adopt these operative measures which, as experience has now so brilliantly proved, offer in competent hands a fair chance of success.”—British Medical Journal^ Sept. 1, 1888, page 473. The International Otological Congress held at Brussels in September, 1888. Dr. Thomas Barr (Glasgow) read a paper on the surgical treat- ment of cerebral abscess resulting from ear disease, in which he related two cases which had been successfully operated upon by Dr. Macewen. This paper attracted considerable attention, and on the proposal of Professor Guye, the English School of Surgery was congratulated upon its success.—London Medical Record, Oct. 20, 1888. Dr. Macewen also received from Brussels the congratulations of the Otological Congress. B