11 weighed and compared with former experience Imfore draAving a conclusion.” “ In many cases the evidences of focal lesions are so distinct that a diagnosis is easy; in others they are so intricate that a prolonged and minute investigation is necessary to decipher them, Avhile there are still others in Avhich the signs are so perplexing that at best an approximation only can be arrived at. To lav bare a certain known convolution on a cerebral surface and observe the results of its stimulation is an easier task than to take what appears to be a tangled skein of nerve phenomena, such as is presented by many lesions of the complex brain of man, and to relegate each to its true source and infer from a study of the Avhole what particular parts of the brain are affected.” Clearly, then, much caution, much careful study, and much experience are needed by all surgeons who venture on these operations. Dr. Macewen has shown unmistakably that he possesses these requisites; but his example is not to be lightly folloAved by persons Avho do not possess them, or the progress of this neAV branch of surgery will be checked l)y disasters which more mature wisdom and more caution Avould have avoided. Dr. MaceAven relates several interesting cases to shoAv that “the motor and sensory phenomena form reliable guides to localisation of lesions in the central convolutions,” and a most important and suggestive case to prove that “ the diagnosis of cerebral lesions in non-motor regions may be made from sensorv phenomena. A man who had received an injury about a year previously suffered from deep melancholy and strong homicidal impulses, relieved by paroxysms of pain in the head of indefinite seat. Though the pain Avas excruciating, he Avelcomed it, as it temporarily dispelled the almost irresistible desire to kill his Avife or children or other people. Prior to receiving this injury he Avas perfectly free from impulses of this kind, and had led a happy life Avith his family. Behind the angular process of the frontal there was a slight osseous depression, Avhich could not account for his symptoms. There Avere no motor phenomena, but on minute inquiry it Avas discovered that immediately after the accident, and for about tAvo Aveeks subsequently, he suffered from psychical blindness. Physically he could see, but Avhat he saAv conveyed no impression to his mind. An object presented itself before him which he could not make out, but Avhen this object emitted sounds