16 amounted to an ovation. By a devotion to work and a love for tlie observation of nature, which remind us strongly of the genius of John Hunter, Dr. Macewen has won for himself a foremost place in the front rank of surgery; and the honour accruing to the Glasgow Surgical School by the ever memorable labours of Lister has been well maintained by the more recent researches of Macewen.—Glasgow Medical Journal, September, 1888, p. 248. Leader from the Medical Press and Circular. The most important medical event of this year has been the meeting of the British Medical Association in Glasgow. The meeting was a large one, and was on the whole a marked success. On the whole, the papers read were of a high order, and the scientific value and importance of the meeting was thus main- tained. The meeting was presided over with great and acceptable ability by Professor W. T. Gairdner, who delivered an excellent address on “The Physician as a Naturalist.” The address in Surgery was delivered by Professor Sir George H. B. Macleod. His subject was “ The Progress of Surgery during the Last Half Century.” The subject was treated of in an eloquent and exhaus- tiv^e manner, and was quite worthy of the reputation of the dis- tinguished speaker. Dr. Clifford Allbutt of Leeds, in the “Address on Medicine,” was quite up to his reputation of one of the most cultured of English physicians. Excellent as these addresses were, it is indisputable that the address which riveted most atten- tion was that by Dr. William Macewen on certain points in Surgery to which he had devoted special attention. Results have been obtained by Dr. Macewen which would never have been dreamt of a quarter of a century ago, and which must cause the older school of practitioners to remodel their physiology.—Medical Press aiul Circular, Retrospect for 1888.—January 2, 1889. Extract from the Presidential Address delivered at the opening of the Section of Otology, British Medical Association, Glasgow, 1888, hy Thomas Barr, M.D. “We are proud to be able to claim for this country the merit of demonstrating within the last two years that without any carious