10 parts of the body, which, in the presence of either irritative or destructive lesions, give rise to phenomena which are of the greatest diagnostic value.” It is this cardinal fact of which Dr. Macewen has been the first to make such hold and such successful use. His paper begins with a modest and succinct account of seven cases in his own practice between the years 1876 and 1883, in which limited lesions of the brain were accurately diagnosed and localised by their symptoms, and were exposed by operation, and the irritating material removed. In the first case the operation, though urged during life, was negatived, and was only performed after death; but the case is important as showing the reliability of the means of diagnosis, and must have powerfully supported the surgeon in advising subsequent operations. It was one of abscess in Broca’s lobe, following an old injury. The other six cases were, one of traumatic ecchymosis of blood beneath the dura mater; one of idiopathic tumour of the dura mater; one of large cerebral abscess which before operation had burst into the lateral ventricle (death followed the operation, which was performed in extremis); one of traumatic effusion of blood, the locality of which was diagnosed from motor symptoms only, the seat of injury being unknown; one of syphilitic tumour; and one of extravasation of blood in the white substance of the motor cortex of the ascending convolution. AYith the one exception indicated, all these opera- tions proved successful, and they all occurred before the case under the care of Dr. Bennet and Mr. Godlee, which attracted so much attention in London in 1884. Witli indisputable justice, therefore, may Dr. Macewen claim the proud distinction of having been the leader in this country, and we believe in the world, of this great advance in our art. Of the future of cerebral surgery it is encouraging to find Dr. Macewen speaking with confidence. Obviously the great ([uestion is how far diagnostic signs are trustworthy. “First, are the localising motor phenomena reliable guides to the diagnosis of cerel)ral lesions situated in the motor cortex ? My answer is unhesitatingly affirmative. Each case, however, requires to be studied on its own merits, the whole pheno- mena presented, the unobtrusive as well as the prominent features must be carefully searched for, the degree in which each is present must be accurately measured, and the whole