8 great deal of excellent work before him in the future. His address showed that they had in him one of the most brilliant surgeons of the day; and he was sure that the members would think that the council had acted wisely in asking him to give them the result of his investigations. Dr. Macewen had also ac- complished useful work in other directions. Those who had attended the Koyal Infirmary would have seen cases of hernia in wliich he had performed some brilliant operations attended by a radical cure. They had all expected great things from Dr. Macewen, and they had not been disappointed, and he was quite sure that they would adopt the resolution which he proposed with the utmost enthusiasm. Dr. Ward Cousins said that they had listened to a most characteristic and important address. He had a great admiration for Scotland, from which they had received some of the most start- ling improvements in modern surgery. When the histor}^ of the evolution of surgery in modern times should be written, the names of Scotch surgeons would assuredly adorn its pages, and among them none of them would be more illustrious than the name of Macewen of Glasgow. They all wished him a long life, that he might continue to cultivate these splendid, noble sciences which were so priceless a blessing to mankind. The motion was carried with acclamation, the members stand- ing and cheering repeatedly. Leader from the British Medical Journal, August 11, 1888, on the above Address. THE SURGERY OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. Dr. Mace wen’s Address “ On the Surgery of the Brain and Spinal Cord,” read at the Glasgow meeting, is in many respects the most remarkable contribution to surgical literature which the present day has produced. When we recollect how rare were the occasions on whicli a few years since even the most enter- prising surgeons thought it justifiable to attempt any operation on the ])rain, and how exclusively such operations were restricted to dealing with the visible and tangible results of localised injuries, it seems almost magical to hear such a statement as