INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS. Mr. Spry, tho scat of the disease was clearly denoteii by a hard tumour on the left side of the abdomen. This circumstance, together with the impossibility of throwing up more than a very small quantity of fluid in glysters (Hevin, Sjiry, Langsktff), and the presence of the other symp- toms, would lead us to suspect the nature of the disorder. If the invaginated portion descended so low as to protrude tlirough the anus, and we could ascertain that it was not an inversion of the gut, the case might be considered as clear, and we should have no hesitation in delivering a prognosis. It must he confessed, that both surgery and medicine are almost totally unavailing in the pre- sent disease; yet here, as in many other instances, the resources of nature are exhibited in a most wonderful and astonishing manner, while those of art completely fail. The invaginated portion of intestine sometimes sloughs, and is discharged per anum, while the agglutination of the parts pre- serves the continuity of the intestinal canal. The annals of medicine furnish numerous instances, in which long pieces of gut have been discharged in this manner, and the patient has recovered. Hence, some hope may be allowed imder the most un- promising circumstances. In a case related in Duncan's Commentaries, vol. ix. p. 278, eighteen inches of small intestine were voided per anum. Three similar instances occur in M. Kevin's Me- moir; twenty-three inches of colon came away in one of these, and twenty-eight of small intestines in another. Other cases occur in the Physical and Literary Essays, vol. ii. p. 861; in Duncaii's An- nals, vol. vi. p. 298; in the Med. Chir. Ti •ans. vol. ii., where Dr. Baillie states that a yard of in- testine was voided. The patients did not, however, ultimately survive in every one of these instances. (Lan(/stojf,in Edinlj. Med. and Surg. Journal.) A very interesting case, in which a recovery was effected on this principle,'and in which from 15 to 18 inches of the ileum were discharged from the anus, was recorded by Mr. Bush (1823) in the Med. and Pliys. Journ. Langenbeck has recorded an instance, in which a prolapsus of the large intestines protruded half an ell out of the anus. The disease had lasted thirty weeks. Langenbeck made an incision into, or rather through, the protruded inverted bowel, immediately below the sphincter ani. He first divided the inner vascular coat, then the muscular, and lastly the outer coat, with great caution. He now discovered, within the protruded inverted bowel which he had opened, another part of the intestinal canal, which was not yet inverted. He remarked upon it the appendices epiploicaj, and the white shining peritoneal coat. This last por- tion would also have become inverted had the disease continued. He next reduced the latter iininverted part, and afterwards succeeded in re- placing the rest of the protrusion ; which did not fall down again when tho boy had stools. No bad symptoms immediately followed ; but the lad, bemg verj- weak, survived only eight days. (See DM. J nr die Chir. b. iii. p. 75G. Gott. 1811.) In tho example recorded by Mr. Thomas Blizard, the lower part of the ileum, immediately above the intussusception, was a little inflamed; "but otherwise the effects of the derangement of piirts were so strictly confined to the intussuscepted Dowel, that, had the child's constitution been able .03 to sustain its separation, the inflammation neces- sarily accompanying this process would, no doubt, have produced nn union of the ileum with the lower part of the colon ; the continuity of the canal would thus have been maintained, the sepa- rated part might have passed, and the child have recovered." {T. Blizard, in Med. Chir, Trans. vol. i. p. 170.) [Prognosis.—Judging from the above cases, and from Dr. Brinton's analysis, "that probably no less than thirty or forty per cent, of suspected intussusceptions recover," either by resolution or by casting off the invagination, the practitioner would be able to hold out the hope of a possible, if not probable, recovery from the immediate disease ; at the same time, not forgetting the possible conse- quences of the lesion ; such as death from exhaus- tion, even alter expulsion of the invagination, and tho formation of false membranes and cicatrices between the viscera, which may hereafter become sources of fatal strangulation.] Treatment.— In the treatment of introsusception, bleeding, to lessen the inflammation that might be brought on, and quicksilver, to remove the cause, have been recommended. Quicksilver would have little effect either in one way or the other, if the intussusception were down- ward ; for it is to be supposed that it would easily make its way through the innermost contained gut, and, if it should be stopped in its passage, it would, by increasing its size, become a cause (as before observed) of assisting the disease. In cases of the retrograde kind, quicksilver, assisted by the peri- staltic motion, might be expected to press the intus.susception back ; but even imder such cir- cumstances it might get between the containing and inverted gut into the angle of reflection, and, by pushing it farther on, increase the disease it is intended to cure. {J. Hunter.) Everything that can increase the action of the intestine downwards is to be particularly avoided, as tending to increase the peristaltic motion of the outer containing gut, and thus to continue the disease. Medicines can never come into contact with the outer fold; and, having passed the inner, can only act on the outer farther down, and there- fore cannot immediately affect that portion of the outer which contains the intussusception; but we must suppose that whatever afi^ects or comes into contact with the larger portion of the canal, so as to throw it into action, will also afl"ect by sympathy any part that may escape such application. [It appears to us that the treatment of a case of this kind must be conducted on one of two prin- ciples, the selection of either being allowed to depend upon the duration of the affection. Sup- posing the lesion to have existed a short time only, say two or three days, and the symptoms of in- flammation be not severe, active means may be had recourse to. These consist especially in the employment of copious enemata, either of warm water or of gruel, carefully, slowly, but persever- ingly injected per anum (under chloroform, if necessary); the object being to endeavour to dis- tend the large intestine, the probable recipient of the invagination, and to exercise pressure upon the intussusception, with the view to push it back to its normal relative position. This failing, after one or two repetitions, inflation, as adopted with success by Mr. Erichsen (Science and Art of Surgery, edit. 3, p. 945,) should bo tried.