DISEASE. 9-10 VENEREAL indurated Ivmpliatics often terminate insensibly near the root of the penis, or near the pubes ; while, in other instances, they extend further to a lympha- tic gland in the groin. Mr. Hunter believed that this affection of the absorbent vessels is truly venereiil. The formation of a hard cord, he con- ceived, arose from a thickening of the coats of the absorbents, and from an extravasation of coagu- lable lymph on their inner surface. A cord of the above kind often suppurates, sometimes in more places than one, so as to form one, two, or three buboes, or small abscesses, in the body of the penis. Inflammation much more frequently affects the absorbent glands than the vessels. The structure of the former parts appears to consist of the ramifi- cations and reunion of the absorbent vessels. From this structure, observes Mr. Hunter, we may reason- ably suppose that the fluid absorbed is in some measure detained in the glands, and thus has a greater opportunity of communicating the disease to them than to the distinct vessels. Swellings of the absorbent glands may originate from other diseases, and should be carefully dis- criminated from those vifhich arise from the venereal poison. With this view, Mr. Hunter advises us first to inquire into the cause, in order to ascertain whether there is any venereal complaint at some greater distance from the heart, such as chancres on the penis, or any preceding disease in this situa- tion. He recommends us to inquire whether !»ny mercurial ointment has been at all applied to the leg and thigh on the diseased side ; for mercury, applied to those parts for the cure of a chancre, vvill sometimes cause glandular enlargements, which are occasionally mistaken for venereal buboes. This irritation of the inguinal glands by the me- chanical action of mercurial ointment, has also been particularly noticed by Professor Assalini who states, that he has had frequent opportunities of convincing himself of the fact. (See Manuale di CIdrurgia, p. 67.) Mr. Hunter reminds us to observe whether there has been any preceding disease in the constitution, such as a cold, fever, &c. The quick or slow progress of the swelling is likewise to be marked, and the tumor must be distinguished from femoral hernia, lumbar ab- scesses, and aneurism of the crural artery. In particular cases, it would appear that some time elapses before venereal matter produces its effects on the absorbent glands after its absorption. Mr. Hunter notices that sometimes at least six days transpire first—a circumstance which can only be known by the chancres having healed six days before the bubo began to appear. However, as the last matter of a chancre is probably not vene- real, he infers that, in cases of this kind, absorp- tion must have taken place earlier than other considerations would lead one to suppose. In general, only the glands nearest to the seat of ab- sorption are attacked. Thus, when the matter is taken up from the penis in men, the inguinal glands are affected ; and when from the vulva in women, those glands svi'ell which are situated between the labium and thigh and the round ligaments. It was one of Mr. Hunter's opinions, that only one gland <it a time is commonly affected by the absorption of venereal matter. If this statement be correct, the circumstance may be considered as a kind of criterion between venereal and other buboes. M. Ricord is also of opinion, that when absorption takes place from a chancre, the matter is conveyed only to the superficial glands, and, for the most part, only to one at a time, although several glands, both superficial and deep, may be at the same time swollen; so that, according to this experienced surgeon, one gland may present all the characters of virulent bubo, while the neigh- bouring glands, in which the inflammation may also advance to suppuration, as well as the sur- rounding cellular tissue, may present only cha- racters of simplicity and non-virulence. On this principle he accounts for the opposite and seem- ingly contradictory results of inoculations with the matter of buboes. {Mai. Fen. p. 140.) According to Mr. Wallace's view, it is because the venereal poison is deprived of its power of irri- tating the lymphatic system, by passing through a lymphatic gland, that we generally find one gland only affected. " We are not, however, to suppose that a bubo cannot be syphilitic if more than one gland be diseased; for should the absorbents, which arise from the surface to which the poison has been applied, be so distributed as to pass in different directions, and, consequently, through the separate glands, a plurality of these bodies may be affected." (On Ven. Dis. p. 345.) The second order of lymphatic vessels and glands are never affected; as, for instance, those along the iliac vessels or back. Mr. Hunter also observed, that when the disease was contracted by a sore, or cut upon the finger, the bubo oc- curred a little above the bend of the arm, by the side of the biceps muscle, and no swelling of this sort formed in the armpit. However, he had heard of a few cases in which a swelling in the axilla was also produced. Buboes in the armpit may occur, not only from a wound of the fingers or hand, but from ulcers on the nipple; and they may form in the neck, or under the jaw, when produced bv absorption from ulcers on the lips, (See Wallace, I. cit. p. 344.) When buboes arise from a venereal disease on the penis, they are situated in the glands of the groin : if from a gonorrhoea, either groin jnay be attacked; if from a chancre, the bubo most fi:er quently takes place in the nearest groin. The situation of the absorbent glands, however, is not always exactly the same, and the course of the lymphatics, therefore, is subject to some variety. Hence, Mr. Hunter has seen a venereal bubo, produced by a chancre on the penis, situated a considerable way down the thigh ; he has also often seen buboes as high as the lower part of the belly, before Poupart's ligament, and sometimes near the pubes. At the present day, swellings of the femoral glands are rarely considered to be venereal. The seat of absorption is more extensive in the female sex, and the course of some of the ab- sorbents is also different. Hence, buboes in women may^ occur in three situations, two of which are totally different from those in men. When ciiancres are situated forwards, near the meatus urinarius, nymphoe, clitoris, labia, or mons veneris, the absorbed matter is generally conveyed along one or both of the round ligaments; and the buboes are formed in those ligaments just before they enter the abdomen. Mr. Hunter suspected such buboes not to be glandular, but only inflamed ab'iorhents. When chancres are situated far back, near or on the perineum, the absorbed matter is carriea