VliNEREA] Moih'rn Vioivs.—Wo now enter upon the con- sidenition of the modern views entertained by Bi-itisli and foreign writers on tlie venereal disease since Mr. Cooper's time, and up to the present ]ieriod, including some of the many disputed doc- trines still under discussion. In the first place, with respect to the primary syphilitic ulcer, its varieties, its causes, and its consequences, there is still the greatest possible dift'erence of opinion, and it is to this portion of the subject that we propose now chiefly to direct attention. M. Ricord, who, though incorrect in man}' of his conclusions, has, we believe, done more than any living authority to elucidate the subject of ^yphilis, endeavoured to show, at all events in his l iirlier teachings, that the production of a pustule liy inoculation with the matter of a sore was a certain proof of the syphilitic nature of that sore ; and conversely, that if the result of inoculation jiroperly performed was negative, the original sore could not have been truly syphilitic. His experi- ments were performed on a large scale, they were witnessed by a large number of disciples and fol- hiwers, who unhesitatingly adopted and zealously promulgated his doctrines, and they met with almost universal acceptation. It was, in fact, at tliat time difficult to imagine that anything could uuiterially shake his conclusions. But what is the prevailing opinion now with the modern school of French writers on syphilis So iar from holding to the doctrines originally taught by Ricord, they now tell «a that the true syphi- litic ulcer—that which infects tlie constitution—is }iever inoculable on the same individual, or on anyone who is, or who has been, the subject of constitu- tional syphilis. They affirm that there are two kinds of venereal ulcers, which represent two per- fectly separate and distinct diseases : one the true chancre, never auio-inoculable, u>ually accompanied with indura ion, which always infects the system, liut never occurs more than once in the same per- son; and the other, the unindurated, or soft sore, much the more common of the two, which is an entirely local disease, and Jietec infects the system, vvliich is always inoculable on any individual, whether previously the subject of syphilis or not, :uid which may be contracted any number of times. 1 0 the latter class of sores the name of chancroid IS now often applied. The two sores are alleged to be perfectly distinct from each other, to have nothing in common, and to be capable only of re- producing their like. This doctrine is so far antagonistic to that ori- t,'inally taught by Ricord, that a successful inocula- tion, instead of being a proof of syphilis, would now be held, by many authorities, to be conclusive that the sore from which the matter was obtained was not truly syphilitic—not infectious—that is, as regards the constitution. The action of the two kinds of sore on the lymphatic system is also alleged to present certiiin marked points of contrast. Thus, the indurated sore is usually accompanied by an indolent pain- li;ss enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, which very rarely suppurate ; while the unindurated sore does not necessarily cause any affection of the lymphatic glands at all, but if it does, the action induced is of an intiannnatory character, is ver}' liable to end in suppuration, and the matter of the bubo is aa readily inoculable as i DISEASE. .O.-ifl that of the original sore. In well-marked cases these distinctions will, no dimlit, be very commonly met with, but the exceptions are numeions. ''Non-conformable" cases are constantly met with, and their diagnostic value has, in our opinion, been very much over-rated. It was Bassereau, a pupil of Ricord, who in 1852 first brought prominently forward the theory of two syphilitic poisons. In a work, characterised by great ability and research, called Traite des Affections de la Pcau Symplomatiques de la Syphi- lis, he refers to a number of cases whi:h tend to show, by what he calls the "confrontation" of patients with the person from whom they have contracted their disease, that the indurated or in- fecting sore always produces an indurated or in- fecting sore ; and that the unindurated, soft, or non-infecting sore, in like manneriilways produces its like, and never causes constitutional disease. On these grounds, he considered that the two kinds of sore represent two separate and distinct dis- eases. At that time the inoculabiiity of the indurated sore had not been called in question, but it had been observed, that when inoculated on the indi- vidual bearing it, it did not usually produce an indurated sore, but one with a soft base, exactly resembling the ordinary soft sore. Therefore, it was argued by M. Clerc, in opposition to Bassereau, that there was'not necessarily a double virus, but that the soft sore was the product of the hard sor^, when transferred to a person already affected with syphilis, and that it transmitted itself as a soft sore, having permanently lost its infecting propertv. Somewhat later, in 1857, M. Fournier, another pupil of Ricord's, who followed up the confronta- tion system of Bassereau, and who came to the same conclusion with him as to the distinctness of the two diseases, attempted to explain the fact, that the hard sore becomes a soft sore when inocu- lated on a syphilitic patient, by the theory, advo- cated latterly by Ricord, that a person cannot have an indurated sore, or true syphilis, twice, and that therefore, under these peculiar circumstances, the hard sore produces a soft one. But he urges, that if the matter from one of these soft sores be com- nmnicated to a healthy subject, a hard sore and subsequent constitutional infection will be the re- sult. In those cases, then, the apparently soft .sore is in truth a hard sore temporarily disguised. Afterwards, however, M. Fournier, experiment- ing with inoculation, found considerable difficulty in inoculating the indurated sore on the individual bearing it, and only succeeded in doing so once in 99 attempts. M. Puche only succeeded twice in 100 inoculations, and other experiments with simi- lar results might be quoted. Hence arose the idea that the indurated sore was weyer auto-innculable, or indeed inoculable on anyone who was the sub- ject of constitution;il syphilis. Those views of the duality of the virus, and of the noii-inocniability of tlie indurated sore, have been ably advocated by MM. Didny and Rollet of Lyons and mnny other.s, and liave met with considerable favour from tlie profession, not only in France and other parts of the Continent, but also in this country and in America. There still remains, however, a verv respectable phalanx of authorities, on whose side we do not hesitate to enrol ourselves, who are not disposed to accept these sweeping and positive distinctions, who find them frequently incompatible witit wiiat is