[68] INi'LAMMATION drinking cold brandy-and-water for the relief of thirst, heat; and miserj'; is it to be believed that they would not turn from it with disgust if it increased headache, or did other harm ? One of the most popular American " soothing syriipa " for infants is nothing but spirits-and-water sweetened. Nor must we forget what a share "cordials" had in the treatment of inflammation by our wi^e ancestors. Under this term were included many heterogeneous things intended to refresh a patient, as saline daughts, fruit syrups, &c. {WiUis, Pharm. Rat.) ; but no one can inspect an old Pharma- copoeia without being struck by the number of distilled " waters," that is, spirits flavoured with aromatics, as the Aqua Alexiterii, Aq. Epidemica, Cinnamomi, ^c.; and in the works of Sydenham, Willis, Gideon Harvey, and Daniel Turner will be found examples of pearl juleps, that is, com- pounds of spirits and syrup with powdered pearl or chalk to "refresh the spirits" in fevers and inflam- mations, with remarks on their abuse. Nor must the universal admixture of sweet spirits of nitre to fever draughts be forgotten. It was added to allay restlessness and promote perspiration. In the case of young persons just "turning the corner" out of a pleurisy or bronchitis or effects of injury, good Bordeaux wine may be given with great benefit, but Rhine wine, Hungarian and sherry all have their place. We have already called attention to the curious circumstance, that at the Royal Infirmary of Edin- burgh, during the bleeding time, 1830-50, the con- sumption of port wine and Scotch ale was eight times as much as now, in proportion to the number of patients. Just as the lancet fell into disuse at the beginning, so did stimulants at the close of treatment. Of chronic inflammations, many are the expres- sions of starvation, and disappear as soon as the proper food is supplied. (See p. 3P.) Some oph- thalmias, oza;nas, sore throats, enlarged glands, husky coughs, boils, eczema, acne, &c., yield to a better diet and wine. But of all the remedies of a nutritive sort, the cod-liver oil is the most suc- cessful in cases of strumous and low inflamma- tions, and this whetlier the patient be fat or lean. When life hangs upon a thread, the raw juice of beef, thickened with raw meat scraped or pounded, is the most potent restorative, if the patient can telle6 it. Tonics, such as decoction of bark or quinine, with mineral acid or with ammonia, are of service in the later stages of acute, and in all stages of chronic asthenic inflammations. The muriated tincture of iron, in doses of a drachm in water, frequently repeated, has been proposed by Bell and Campbell de Morgan in erysipelas, diphtheria and other cachectic inflammations, (See Art. Env- siPKLAR, also Di-uilt on ilie Use of Iron in the Cattle FlMjue, Loud. 1866.) It seems to be a routme remedy in vogue with many practitioners in rheu niatic and scarlet fever, and most acute diseases. ease. Thence it vi'as employed in the treatment of syphilis. " By use hereof," says Willis, " wheals and pushes, and all malignant ulcers, viz., venereal and scorbutick, are wont to be tamed." {Pluirm. Rat. p. ii.) In the seventeenth century it wag used sometimes in this way for eruptions ; some- times it was rubbed in to procure salivation for syphilis ; sometimes in the form of calomel, or mercurius dulcis, as a purge in general, or to hasten salivation. Harsher preparations, as the turbith and red precipitate, were sometimes given inter- nally, even by Sydenham. Willis praises the pre- parations of mercury as vomits and purges, and as causing so many " fluxes, dissolutions, precipita- tions, and separations of the serum . . . which is the reason that in old distempers, which are not easily cured, people have recourse to this medicin as their last refuge." (Op. cit.) In treating of mechanical theories of inflammation (p. 58) we showed how Belloste praised it at the end of the seventeenth century for the cure of chronic inflammation and obstructions of the glands, and what Astruc thought of its modus operandi in syphilis. During the earlier three- quarters of the eighteenth century we chiefly find it used as a purge in cachectic diseases, for which purpose calomel was given in the huge doses of 15-20 grains every other night. Daniel Turner praised cinnabar as a deobstruent, and said that calomel was the most efficient purge for pituitous humours. In 1747, Plummer's pill came into vogue. But in the year 1764 Dr. Robert Hamilton, of Lyme Regis {Medical Commentaries, 1785, vol. ix. p. 195) met with a "worthy surgeon of the navy," who told him that in India the established The fifth class of remedies comprises a list of substances which act upon inflammation, or some kinds of it, in a way which we find it difhcult to explain on general principles, and, for convenience Biike, they are called .':pecifics or special stunulmts. a. Mercury.—-niis, the most important ot the class, was extensively used by the Arabians and their early successors as an ointment in skiu dis- remedy for hepatitis was first a small bleeding, then mercury rubbed in, or calomel, so as to pro- duce gentle salivation. It occurred to Dr. Hamil- ton that the coast of Coromandel and the coast of Norfolk agreed in being infested with remittent and intermittent fevers, with occasional hepatitis ; he consequently tried calomel in hepatitis, com- bined with opium to ease the pain, and was satis- fied with the result. Then it occurred to him that mercury is useful in ophthalmia ; that it abates inflammation when applied in the form of ointment to the sores made in inoculation of smallpox ; that it cured syphilis ; and tliat probably, inasnnich as all inflammations must have certain conditions in common, so perhaps mercury was a remedy for the phlogistic diathesis generallj', whatever the local effects might be. The new remedy was first tried in pneumonia with astonishing success. It was next tried in the pneumonia complicating measles and small pox, in " obstinate, dry catarrli- ous coughs," in pleurisies, " phrenitis and para- phrenitis"; in inflammation of the intestines, in- flammatory childbed fever, inflammatory angina, acute rheumatism, inflammatory gout, and in in- flammations of the three visceral cavities caused by injury. The treatment began with blood-letting and a mild aperient, after which from " five to one grain of calomel, and from one to one-fourth of a grain of opium," was given every six, eight, or twelve houis, with plenty of diluents. If high inflammation continued the bleeding was repeated, and the calomel and opium given more often till the disease yielded or slight ptyalisin ensued. _ If the fever were violent and the skin hot, a little tartar emetic and camphor was added. Dr. Hamii- jtoii "always thought the opium of the most cs-