Lility, regard tlic inverted pnrt n3 an extraneous mass, and proceed to net upon it instinctively by successive and suitable efforts of its muscular coat, to propel it downward; whilst the os and cervix will by consent, and as transpires in the regular process of deliver)-, become dilated, and thus a part of the uterus will act on the rest, and carry on the displacement even to pervcrsio extrenia. . . . The uisns depressorius of the abdomen awakened will assist the expulsion." Dr. Tyler Smith maintains the same theory {TMamial of Obstetrics, ]«58). He says:—"There is first cup-like depression of the fundus uteri; co- incident with, or immediately following upon, this depression, there is hour-glass contraction of tlie body or lower portion of the uterus. The annular contraction of the body grasps the introcedent fun- dus as it would a foreign body, and carries it downward for expulsion through the os, the os being itself in a state of inertia. After the in- verted uterus has passed through the dilated os. this part becomes contracti'd, and prevents re-inver- sion. The steps are—introcessiun, intussusception, inversion." Dr. Matthews Duncan (Edinb. Med. Ji.urn. 1867) admits the spontaneous and artificial pas- sive forms, and spontaneous and artificial active forms. In the active f .rm there is a paralysis of a part, commonly the seat of the placenta. This part falls into the part below, which is in a state of hour-glass contraction. By this the paralysed in- trocedent part is seized and carried down. The accident appears to be far less frequent at the present day than formerly. Ruysch saw it frequently, and was called to two cases in one day. On the other hand. Dr. McClintock says that out of seventy-one thousand labours in the Dublin Lying-in Hospital not one case was known to have occurred. A very common history used to be that the uterus was inverted by the midwife pulling on the cord. The actual comparative rarity must be attributed to the improvement of obstetric practice. Many men of large experience have never seen a case. Crosse, however, who has collected four hundred cases, contends that the partial form is more frequent than is suspected. There are several specimens in Guy's museum illustrating this partial inversion, B. Langenbeck (il/et/. cenlr. Zcitung, 1860) exhibited the inverted uterus of a woman who had never been pregnant. On the inverted fun- dus was seated a fragile, sarcomatous heterolo- gous growth of broad basis, the size of a walnut. Abarbanell (Monalsschr. fur Qchurtskmidc, 1861) relates the following: A woman had bect)mc verj nnoimic from frequent ha;morrhages. A smooth tumor the size of the fist was first felt protru- ding from the uterus ; fourteen days later, under violent expulsive pains with profuse hajmorrhage, the tumor was driven through the external geni- tals, and the uterus was completely inverted. The tumor was amputated, whereupon the uterus quickly replaced itself. McClintock gives a case IJh. of Wojnen, DtdiHn, 186;!). Dr. ICmmet {Amer. Joiirn. of Obstetrics, 1869) relates a case. He amputated the tumor by the wireecraseur and then reduced the inversion. Prof. E. Martin relates a case in which inversion was caused by a tumor. This removed, spontaneous reinversion took place. {Mon.f. C'cLurtsk, 1869.) Inversion ia spoken of n? recent or chronic. The UTERUS, INVERSION OF. 873 differentiation may be made as follows: It is recent so long as the uterus has not completed its involution, that is, has not returned to the ordi- nary state of non-pregnancy. The tissues during this stage are softer, the muscular fibre stifl possesses contractile power, and reduction bv manipulation is still feasible. It is chronic wheii the process of involution is complete. The tissues are then condensed, more unyielding, and sus- tained clastic pressure is the proper form of ap- plying force. The symptoms of inversion are cliiefly those of shock, i)idicating sudden severe injiny. They vary with the degree and progress of the inversion. Thus the first degree, or simple depression, may be unattended by pain, and indicated solely by haj- morrliage and a corresponding depression of the vital powers. The hajmorrhase comes from the relixed introcedent part. The depression at the fundus may be felt through the abdominal walls as a cup like hollow. As the descent pro- ceeds, and becomes introversion, urgent symptoms arise, according to the degree of compression exer- cised by the uninverted portion upon the inverted portion. A sense of fulness, weight, as of some- thing to be expelled, is felt. Expulsive efforts, both uterine and abdominal, sometimes very violent, follow. Haemorrhage is not constant. It seems that, when the inverted portion is firmly compressed, the hsemorrhage is arrested, and lhat bleeding is a mark of inertia. When the inver- sion is complete, the uterus is felt in the vagina, or may be seen as well outside the vulva ;'then pain and collapse are aggravated ; clammy sweats, cold extremities, vomiting, alarming distress, rest- lessness, extinction of the pulse occur. During the expulsion the woman has often exclaimed that her intestines were passing from her. A tumor appears in the vagina or externally, generally covered by the placenta. The cord is traced up to the insertion, and the placenta, of convex form is spread over the tumor. ' The shock, either with or without hemorrhage, is sometimes so great as to quickly extinguish "life. Cases are known where.the shock attending simple depression has been fatal. Where the case is not fatal, and the uterus is not reduced, the svmptoms of chronic inversion succeed. First, the tumor, by Us bulk, causes distress of the bladder and rectum. Then it is probably forced externallv Chronic inflammation, thickening, and induration of the parts ensue. The surface may become dry from exposure, or ulcerated and bleeding from chafin.^ It may be difficult or impossible to reduce 'it w.thm the vagina. If the tumor remain within the vagina, it may still be a source of chronic irri- tation to the vagina, and may itself be the seat of clironic inflammation. Congestion, abrasion of surlace, ulcerations, give rise to profuse muco- purulent leucorrhcca, and frequeiuly to ha>- morrhage. Irritative fever, emaciation, pain, dis- charges, breakdown the constitution; and after soma months, or even years, the patient may sink from exhausiion, or a degree of tolerance is established, the symptoms becoming loss severe. As Windsor remarked, an epoch of special danger is that of weaning and the resumption of menstruation. The discharges of blood then beconio more frequent and profuse. When (he climacteric age has been reached, the uterus undergoing natu- ral ntrophy, severe symptoms may subside.