13C JOINTS, DISEASES OF. Scrofulous white swellings, no doubt, are iinder the influence of a particular kind of constitution, termed scrofulous or strumous, in which every cause capable of exciting inflammation, or an irri- table state of a joint, may bring on this severe disease. On the other hand, in a man of a sound constitution, a similar irritation would only induce common healthy inflammation of the joint. In scrofulous habits, it also seems as if irritation of a joint were much more easily produced than m other constitutions; and no one can doubt that when once excited in the former class of subjects, it is much more dangerous and diflicult of removal than in other patients. The doctrine of particular white swellings being scrofulous diseases, is supported by many weighty reasons, the opinions of the most accurate observers, and the evidence of daily experience. Wiseman (book iv. chap. 4) calls spina ventosa a species of scrofula, and tells us that infants and children are generally the subjects of it. Tiie disorder is said by Severinus to be exceedingly frequent in young subjects. Petrus de Marchettis observed both male and female subjects affected with what are called strumous diseases of the joints as late as the age of five-and-twenty; but not afterwards, unless they had suff'ered from scrofula before that period of life, and had not been completely cured. R. Lowerus also maintains a similar opinion. Even though a few persons have Bcrofulous dis- eases of the joints for the first time after the age of twenty-five, this occurrence, like the iirst attack of scrofula after this period, must be considered as extremely uncommon. Another argument in favour of the doctrine which sets down particular kinds of white swell- ing as scrofulous, is founded on the hereditary nature of such forms of disease. Numerous continental surgeons, particularly Petit and Brambilla, have noticed how subject the English are both to scrofula and white swellings of the joints. We every day see that young per- sons afflicted with the present disease are in general manifestly scrofulous, or have once been so. Fre(iuently enlarged lymphatic glands in the neck denote this fatal peculiarity of constitution; and very often the patients are known to have de- scended from parents who had strumous disorders. (Croiotlier.) The disease is also frequently com- bined with swelled mesenteric glands, or tubercu- lated lungs. {Brodie's Path. Ohs. p. 221.) As the same author remarks, since the disease depends upon a certain morbid condition of the general system it is not surprising that we should some- times find it affecting several joints at the same time, or that it should show itself in different joints in succession, attacking a second joint after it has been cured in the first, or after the first has been removed by amputation (p. 230). Besides the general emblems of a scrofulous constitution, we may often observe a shming, coagulated, flaky substance, like white of egg bleSded with the contents of such abscesses_ as occur in the progress of the disease. Ihis kind of matter is almost peculiar to scrofulous and forms another argument in support ot he foregoing observations relative to the share which scrofula frequently has in the origin and course of many white swellings. , j i • 4 Sir Benjamin Brodie's experience leads him to believe that, in scrofulous cases, the chance ot ulti- mate recovery is much less when the disease attacks the complicated joints of the foot and hand than when it is situated in larger articula- tions of a more simple structure. (^Path. and Sunj. Ohs. p. 235.) ITrealinent of Chronic Strumous Arthritis, or White Siuellings.—It must be borne in mind that v/e have to manage an affection which is truly scrofulous in its nature and in its results. _ Our first object, therefore, should be to prevent, if pos- sible, the occurrence of suppuration. In the early stage, when the affection has come on insidiously, without any very active symptoms, we must em- ploy general measures of an anti-strumous nature, for without them local treatment alone will be found wholly useless. The patient should hare the benefit of good diet, and sea-air, and alterative medicines; cod liver oil and preparations of iodine should be prescribed. To these we shall agam pre- sently refer. The most important element in the local treat- ment is rest, with perfect immobility of the articu- lation, without which all other measures will prove useless. The patient must therefore be prevented from walking about, particularly if the affected partis one of the joints of the lower extremity; for the weight of the body will alone cause mucli irritation. The limb should therefore be placed in such a position as shall be the most easy to the patient, but which will leave the menaber a useful one in the event of a stiff joint resulting. If the symptoms are of a rather acutely inflam- matory character leeches may be applied, but they are recommended to be employed as sparingly as possible, and chiefly at the earlier stages of the disease, or to the subduing of any more active inter- current inflammation. In ordinary cases of scrofu- lous joints. Sir Benjamin Brodie considers topical bleeding as generally unnecessary,] It is quite needless to expatiate on the mode of treating white swellings, complicated with acute inflammation, particularly as the treatment of those cases which consist of inflammation of the syno- vial membrane has been already noticed, and may be said to be applicable to other forms of white swelling, when they are attended with heat and inflammation of the soft parts. The most eligible plan of arresting the morbid process in the bones, cartilages, and soft parts surrounding the articula- tion, and the most successful method of lessening the chronic enlargement of the joint, are the sub- jects at present demanding our earnest luvesti- ^^w"hen white swellings are accompanied with ulceration of the cartilages all motion" of the joint is extremely hurtful. Indeed, as Sir B. Brodie well observes, keeping the limb in a state of per- fect quietude is a very important, if not the most important, circumstance to be attended to _in_ the treatment. According to this gentleman, it is m these cases in which ulceration of the cartilages occurs as a primary disease that caustic issues are usually productive of singular benefit; but he deems them of little use in any other diseases o the joints. He thinks setons and blisters, kept open with savine cerate, may also be used with advantage. Bleeding is indicated only when, from improper exercise, the articular ^"■f^^'-'!-^n^?^ ilamed, and there is pain and fever Sir B Brod e finds that tlie warm bath relieves the symptoms in the early stage, if it does not stop the progress of