922 VENEREAL DISEASE. ulceration (he observes) has been denied; and what has led to this denial of the liability of the urethra to ulcerate, under the influence of causes which produce this result in other mucous mem- branes, is, that Morgagni never observed ulcera- tions in gonorrhoea—that very Morgagni, who, however, had seen chancres in the meatus urina- rius and cicatrices in the urethra, which must have proceeded from previous destruction; that Hunter, in the dissection of two executed criminals who had gonorrhoea, found no ulcerations in the urethra; and that M. Cullerier and Ph. Boyer, each of them in a single examination, also met with no ulceration." M. Ricord afterwards notices cases, where the introduction of the pus of chancre into the urethra produced blennorrhagia: here (says he) it is certain, "one of two things must have occurred ; either the matter of chancre acted as a simple irritant in exciting the discharge, or eke, operating specifically, it caused an urethral chancre, which, in consequence of its situation, being what I call un cliancre larve, only occasioned the symptoms of blennorrhagia." {Op. cit. p. 121- 12-i.) In support of the doctrine, that mere gonor- rhoea! matter never produces chancre, M. Ricord adverts also to the fact tliat the muco purulent secretion of gonorrhceal ophthalmy never occasions chancres by inoculation or otherwise, although the eyelids are susceptible of being infected by chancre. (P. 131.) Amongst other points, he has also ascertained, that the pus of a sympathetic bubo, or of an abscess of the testicle, from inflammation of this organ, in consequence of gonorrhoea, may be used for inoculation without any venereal effects being the result. (P. 132.) I need not repeat, that many controverted doc- trines and opinions will be much affected, if the observations made by M. Ricord with the specu- lum uteri, and supported by the results of inocula- tions with gonorrhceal matter, and the pus from chancres, be found to agree with general experience. • One of the greatest obstacles to our jarrival at a satisfactory knowledge of the nature of lues ve- nerea, is the fact that, under this denomination, various diseases are comprised and confounded, the particular distinctions of each of which are not yet sufficiently made out to enable surgeons to form a well-founded and practical classification of them, satisfactory to every impartial observer, and agree- ing with general experience. As Mr. Rose has observed—Long before syphilis is supposed to have commenced its career in the world, some of these diseases were frequently met with; and Mr. Pear- son thinks that, in addition to those formerly known,, new forms of disease have occasionally arisen, " which are succeeded by a regular series of sym- ptoms nearly resembling the progress of lues ve- nerea." {Obs. on the Effects of rarious Articles of the Materia Mcdica in tlie Cure of Lues Venerea, Id. ed. Introd. p. 63; and Rose, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 418.) Mr. Hunter also, in the seventh chapter of his Treatise on the Venereal Disease, speaks of many examples of new-formed disease, arising from peculiar poisons, quite dif- ferent, he supposes, from every other virus previ- ously known, or judged of by its effects. But though Mr. Rose appears to join in the belief ol a plurality of poisons, he is very far from consider- ing it settled how far the variety in the symptoms of venereal cases is to be attributed to dilierent poisons, or how far the symptoms of the same poi- son may be modified and altered by constitution climate, and habits of life. He remarks, that we seldom have an opportunity of tracing different cases to the same source of infection, and of com- paring their progress with each other. (Vol. cit, p. 41.9.) And, I may add, that so far as observ- ations of this nature have been made, and can be trusted, or are not invalidated by the researches of M, Ricord and his mode of explaining the facts, they rather tend to prove, as already no- ticed in the foregoing columns, that different indi- viduals, when infected nearly at the same time and by the same woman, are very far from having any uniformity in their complaints; some having one kind of sore, some another, and others claps, &c. And the tenor of the remarks made likewise by Mr. Evans, so far as he has entered into the subject, lead equally to the conclusion, that one primary complaint, when it produces another, does not always occasion one resembling itself Thus the ulcus elevatum on the penis, though capable of being communicated by inoculation, appeared sometimes to be the effect of one kind of infection, sometimes of another, and sometimes even to have a spontaneous origin. Who shall unravel all these intricacies, I know not, whether he bring to his assistance plurality of poisons, or states of the parts and constitution, climate, neglect, intempe- rance, wrong treatment, or any other circumstance which can possibly be conceived to have influence over the appearances, progress, and consequences of the disease. Nay, it would appear from some of the curious and perplexing histories mentioned in the preceding pages, that one kind of primary complaint in an individual may impart to other persons primary complaints of a different nature; so that even the hope of elucidating parts of this abstruse subject, by adverting to a plurality of infections, and a vigilant observation of their characteristic effects, meets with discouragement almost at its very birth; and though the doctrine of several kinds of poisons being concerned in the production of venereal diseases is still partially entertained, an absolute proof of its correct- ness can hardly be-said to have been yet afforded; nor indeed could it be obtained, unless the inocu- lation of healthy individuals with the matter of the different forms of disease were justifiable for the elucidation of the question. And, as this is not the case, I think, with Mr. Carmichael, that it might be a benefit to society if criminals were sometimes permitted to commute a heavier pun- ishment by submitting to such experiments', with- out which the inquiry into the reality, number, nature, and effects of the morbid poisons under consideration, can perhaps never be brought to a satisfactory termination. " I am perfectly aware (says Mr. Carmichael) how much the state ol tne human constitution will modify local disease, ana am willing to attribute, to a certam extent, ine great variety of appearances we witness dai j i" venereal complaints to this cause alone. J^w^ observe, that many of these primary '"'f! from their very commencement, such peculiar ana distinct characters, that it would be quite an ao surdity to believe that the virus is bI^'^J^ * same, and the variety of characters dependent alone upon constitution. Thus, nothing can be mor_ osite from the commencement than '"e th its hardened base, like a P'ece opp iiion chancre, wi