In the Inte stage, when the depression of the os cjilcis and contraction of the arch of the foot are " niarked, the general adaption of the liga TENDONS. ggg the extremity of the vessel between both the meiitous and nuisciilar structures to the deformed position of the foot, frequently gives to it a degree ot finnness very useful to the patient. Some operative procedures have been attempted with the object of shortening the tendo-Aciiillis, and of producing a contraction of the skin above and behind the os calcis. Dr. Little removed a portion of the tendo-Achillis, together with some of the skin above the os calcis, in two cases, but with very little benefit. I should strongly oppose tlie repetition of any such operation.] William Adams, F.R.C.S. TALPA (a mole). A tumor under the skin compared to a mole under the ground. Such is the etymology. Sometimes it means an encysted tumor on the head. (See Atheroma, and Tu- mors, Encysted.) TAPPING. See Paracentesis. TAR.A.X1S (from Tapd(raca, to disturb). A slight inflammation of the eye. TAXIS (from raa-a-u, to put in order). The operation of reducing a hernia ivith the hand (See Hernia.) T BANDAGE. A bandage so named from its ligure. It IS principally used for supportino- the dressings after the operation for the cure of fistula in ano, m diseases of the perineum, and those of the groin, anus, &c. It is composed of two longi- tudinal pieces of linen or calico, of greater or lesser breadth, according to circumstances. The trans- verse piece serves to go round the body above the hips; the perpendicular piece is sewed, at one of Us ends, to the middle of the latter; and, in gene- ral, its other extremity is slit into two portions, or t.-iils, about six or eight inches long. The perpen- dicular piece of the T bandage extends over the sacrum to the perineum; and its two ends are carried between the thighs and the pudenda to the right and left, and fastened to the transverse piece surrounding the body. Besides the common T bandage, there is another one, named double, which has two perpendicular pieces, sewed to the transverse one, about four inches apart. The dou- ble T bandage is said to be more particularly ap- plicable to the diseases of the perineum, because one may make the two perpendicular pieces cross each other on the part affected, and leave the anus uncovered—an advantage which the simple T ban- dage certainly lias not. (See Bandage.) TENACULUM. A very sharp-pointed line hook, with which the mouths of bleeding arteries are seized and drawn out, in order that they may be tied. It has the advantage of holding the ves- sel without any chance of the latter slipping away; and as soon as the ar tery has been seized, the in- strument may be hold by any person, even a child, while the surgeon applies the lij-ature. A tenaculum' forceps (which is kept shut with a spring) is much employed at tlie present day for taking up bleeding arteries. Arteries ahove a certain size, and whose mouths are perfectly visible, are generally taken up with the common arterial forceps, their coats being very liable to be torn with a tenaculum. (See JMpiii/lreii, Clin, chit: t. iv. p. 39G.) When the forceps is employed, it is better, instead of in- troducing the end of one of its blades into the mouth of the artery, to take conipictely hold of blades, for reasons specified in the article ILumor- RHAGB. TENDONS, WOUNDS AND OTHER IN- JURIES OF. A tendon, after being divided, or ruptured, if properly treated, readily unites. "The surrounding cellular membrane is thickened by an infiltration of coagnlable lymph, which forms a bed that contains and adheres to the divided ends. This bed of thickened membrane shapes itself into a callus, which gradually coheres inseparably with the ends of the tendon; and acquiring strength and firmness, after a time shrinks to the size of the neighbouring tendon, and assumes its white colour and fibrous character." (See Mayo's Hu- man Pathology, p. 120.) Tiie tendons are susceptible of inflammation, and, if injected with fine injection in this state, their vessels are seen to be enlarged. In University College Museum are some good specimens of the change here referred to. Like other fibrous tex- tures, tendons exhibit a backwardness to ulcerate. The length of time required for the separation of a dead portion of tendon is a proof of this fact. The tendons liable to be broken by the violent action of the muscles with which they are con- nected, are the tendo-Achillis, that of the exten- sor muscles of the leg, and the tendon of the tri- ceps extensor cubiti. Mr. M'Intyre, of Newcastle, once mentioned to me a case in which he believed the tendon of the long head of tl.e biceps had been ruptured. The superficial situation of the tendo-Achillis always renders the diagnosis of its rupture ex- ceedingly obvious; and the accident can only be- come at all difficult to detect when there is a considerable degree of swelling, which is very rare. When the tendon has been cut, the simul- taneous division of the skin even brings the injury of the tendon into view. At the moment when this tendon breaks, the patient hears a sound like that of the smack of a whip. Li whatever way he division of the tendon has been produced, here as a sudden incapacity, or at least an ex- treme difficulty,either of standing or walking; and the patient sometimes falls down and cannot cet up again. There is a palpable depression between the ends of the tendon, which depression is in- creased when the foot is bent, and diminished or even quite removed, when the foot is extended 1 he patient can bend his foot very well, none of the flexor muscles being involved; the power of extending it is also still possible, as the peronaji muscles, the tibialis posticus, and the long flexors of the toes (see Ca,e by J. L. Pclil) remain per- fect and may perform this motion. UEmrcs chir de Desaidt, p. 1.) The indications are, to bring the ends oftli' divided part together, and to keep them so, untu they have become firmly united. The first object IS easily fulfilled, by putting the foot in a state of completeextension; the second—namely, that of keeping the ends of the tendon in contact—is more difficult. In order to have a right comprehension of the indications, we should consider what keeps the i-nds of the tendon from being in contact. The flexion of the foot has this ell'cct on the lower iior- tion; the contraction of the gastrocnemius and solicus, on the upper one. The indications then are, to put the foot in an unalterable state of ex-