NEURALGIA. be recommended on any sound principle ; and it need be a matter of no surprise that, where it is performed, it should so generally fail," (On Local Nervous Affections, p. 27.) [Division of the nerves for neuralgia is not often performed, nor is it found at all more successful now than it was twenty years ago. M. Ne'laion has lately performed it upon two cases, apparently favourable for the operation; one succeeded, in the other it was of no effect; in both cases he inserted a little caustic paste, the chloride of zinc, Hooker has performed it with success for neuralgia of the leg. {Lancet, 1859.) Myiini divided the dental nerve without success; he then divided the lingual nerve with success. Michel cured a case by it in 1859, Frank has succeeded with the operation in four cases out of iive of neuralgia of the fifth nerve. {Yearbook of Medi cine and Surgery, 1859.) Brown-Se'quard considers it the most important local means, and the sooner, if to be performed, the better ; he thinks a piece of the nerve should always be removed, if for no other object than to examine microscopically for signs of inflammation, (Frank, contrary to many pathologists, believes that congestion of the trunk of the nerve is one of the most frequent causes of neuralgia, Loc. cil. Brown-S^quard says, that if the nerve appear inflamed, another division of it ought to be pei formed, much higher up, [and even as near the nervous centre as safe or possible. Sulphuric tether dropped upon the nerve, after simple divi- sion, will prevent it from transmitting irritation from the original wound for many days. {Holmes' Surgery, vol. iii.) It may be concluded on this matter, that in very few cases will the operation be permanently successful. I have seen several patients upon whom it has been performed, but in none of them has any real benefit resulted. Electricity in its various forms is esteemed cura tive in neuralgia by some physicians. This agent may be used in a mild form, as by a Pulvermacher chain, the power of which is increased according to the number of links ; by powerful currents sent for a few minutes at a time through the neuralgic part, as found successful by Becquerel {Med. Rev. 1860) ; by Faradisation, the rapidly interrupted current being applied to the neuralgic nerves, and if muscular paralysis co-exists, to the muscles also {Allhaus, 1861). Dr. Radcliffe thinks it best to insulate the patient on a stool, and keep him charged for some time with positive electricity; he also thinks a succession of shocks from an induc- tion-coil likely to do good, " if continued long enough to bring on an artificial hot-stage by paralysing, to a certain extent, the vaso-motor nerves." {Radcliffe on Pain, Sfc, 1864.) General treatment will bo required for neuralgia, if local measures fail to do more than simply miti- gate the paroxysms. It will of course bo modified in accordance with tlie characters the neuralgia may present, and the diathesis of the patient. In the distinctly intermittent form of neuralgia, no determination of blood to the head existing, or no active disease of the viscera, the medicines chiefly to be relied upon are the preparations of bark or quinine, combined if necessary with anodynes. In neuralgia more especially due to anxiety or ner- vous debility from any cause, or hysteria, the preparations of iron rather than of quinine might be 3S£ first tried. Belladonna and opium maybe com- bmed wi h the iron or quinine according to the seventy of [the case, the_ frequency of the attacks, the nervous exhaustion induced, or the insomnia occasioned. In cases due to the effects of damn or exposure to the atmosphere, I have found the in! jection of atropia to be one of the most valuable preventives of recurrent attacks, as well as a cura- tive measure of the paroxysm. It also answers remarkably, in cases of neuralgia of a rheumatic or gouty origin, administered by the mouth; it may be given with alkalies, in doses of one-sixtieth of a grain, two or three times a day; or from that amount to a thirtieth, by hypodermic injection, once or, if repetition is required, two or three times a week. _ The most valuable medicines are, upon the whole iron, quinine, atropia, morphia, strychnia, arsenic' cod- iver oil, phosphorus, zinc, croton-oil, iodine, alcohol, &c. The sulphate of quinine will succeed in a great number of cases of neuralgia, whether caused through debility, fever, malaria, or exposure to wet or cold. If employed alone, very large doses are sometimes found necessary, as from five to twenty grains, although two or three grain doses, every six or eight hours, will usually suffice, I have given as much as thirty grains, two or three times a day, in one very severe case ; quinine may be advantageously combined in most cases with iron, the sulphate or sesquichloride would then be the most suitable, Schrann, in 195 cases of neuralgia of the fifth nerve, found quinine and iron combined the best treatment, arsenic the next jnost successful. {Die Neuralgic des V. Nerven- paares, 1859.) The carbonate of iron is a bulky ■emedy, although one which for many years has been held in great repute. In 1820, Mr. B. Hut- chison recommended it in two-scruple or drachm doses, two or three times a day, for tic douloureux, Dr, Elliotson found, however, that far larger doses might be given without inconvenience, in doses, in fact, of half an ounce or six drachms every four hours ; given in those doses, with twice its weight of treacle, it rarely constipated. But if this remedy is tried, a small purgative should every now and then be administered. There are how- ever, many other far less cumbersome and' more elegant preparations of iron, which are equally beneficial and often more effectual remedies ; such as the phosphates, the hypophosphates, and super- jihosphates of iron, the tincture of sesquichloride the iodide, the lactate, &c, ' Arsenic.—Its preparations have been much-con- fided in by Nessettill, Barsedow, Bedingfield ILilliday, Rowland, &c. ; it is more alterative' than tonic, and is perhaps most useful in cases of neuralgia due to disordered secretions, to hysteria or to uterine derangements, ' Strychnia is sometimes successful in chronic cases of neuralgia—due either to non-inflammatory spinal disease, or to cases of neuralgia of nerves combined with loss of power. It is not well borne, as far as my observation goes, in cases of neuralgia of cerebral origin. Phosphorus, first iierliaps used by Loebeustoiu Loehel, has been niucii used lately by some physicians, in tlie form of the phosphate of iioii of soda, of ammonia, &c. Dr. Radclille thinks phosphorus adds to the nutrition and functional activity of the nerve-tissue ; he gives it in cod-liver A A 2