THYROID GLAND, DISEASES OF. 738 iinage, p. 75 ; Klein, in v. Siehold Samnilung Chir. Beubacht,h. ii. p. 11.; Flajani, Culleziono d' Osservaxioiii di Chirurgia, t. iii. p. 203.) Bronchoceles have sometimes been removed by the peirt having been accidentally or purposely burnt to a considerable depth. {Moiie, in Blegny, Zudiac. mm. 2. Fehi: Obs. 11.; Severimis de Effi- caci Mcdicina, p. 220.) The disappearance of bronchoceles has also been known to follow a wound. {Schnidmiiller iiber die Ausfuhrimgsgange der SchilJdruse, p. 37, Landshul, 1805.) A. Burns sometimes employed blisters, and found them useful. (^Surgical Anatomjj of the Head and iVec/c, p. 204.) With respect to caustic which is spoken of by Celsus (lib. 7. cap. 13.), Flajani states that its operation is tedious and painful, and attended with danger ; and what he says about the practice of an incision is not more encouraging. When the disease contains a cyst, he prefers making an opening with a trocar, though he con- fesses that this plan is apt to be followed by a re- lapse, when the cyst is very thick and hard ; in which circumstance it will be necessary to have recourse either to an incision, or the seton, for the purpose of exciting suppuration. Should the dis- ease, however, be merely composed of one cyst of moderate size, Flajani recommends its entire re- moval. " Of ail these methods (says he), pro- posed for the extirpation of bronchoceles, the seton is the least dangerous, and by means of it a radical cure may be generally effected without any severe symptoms, as I have found by experience in many cases. On the contrary, I have been an eye-witness of the fatal consequences induced by the other plans. 1 was called to assist a gentleman, about forty years of age, brought to death's door by a bleeding, which arose from the application of caustic to the fore part of the neck. As tourniquets, bandages, &c. proved quite ineffectual, it was indispensable to make pressure on the part with the finger of an assistant, for twenty-four hours, ere the heemorrhage could be stopped ; a copious suppuration ensued ; and it was three months before the parts were healed. I was likewise present (says he) at the opening of a similar, but larger swelling in the same situation, the dis- ease having afflicted an elderly respectable patient for several years. The incision caused the evacu- ation of a small quantity of serum, contained in the cellular membrane, but the following day the tumor inflamed, the difficulty of respiration in- creased, and for some days the patient was in great danger. At length, suppuration was esta- blished, followed by a destruction of a great deal of the cellular membrane, and several sinuses, and, in five months, the patient lost his life. (Flajani, Ccllezione d' Osserv. t. iii. p. 283. Bvo. Roma, 1802.) The first proposer of the employment of setons for the cure of diseases of the thyroid ghind, is perhaps not exactly known ; but it is certain, that the method has been known, and occasionally jiractised, ever since the middle of the last century. " Dr. Monro, senior (as a well-informed writer has observed), mentions in his lectures, that he has seen a dropsy in the centre of the gland, compli- cated with bronchocele, cured by a seton, although the glandular swelling still continued." (yf. Burns on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Nerk, p. 1!)1.) This statement is given on the authority of some MS. notes taken by Dr. Drown from Dr. Monro's lectures. According to Girard, many cases in his time had been communicated to the Royal Academy of Surgery, at Paris, in which the disease was got rid of either by means of a seton, drawn through the swelling, or the appli- cation of an issue. {Lupiologic, &c. Bvo. Paris, 1775. (The occasional success of setons was also adverted to by Richter, in the year 1788. {Bib- /io//iefc, b. ix. p. 478.) And the plan is spoken of in another,work, published in 1790, as being eli- gible, where the disease is conjoined with a cyst. (Encyclopedic- Milhod. Parlie Chir. t. i. p. 231.) The practice was particularly noticed by Foddre, in his valuable treatise on bronchocele ; and Ali- bert mentions the seton as being used at the Hos- pital St. Louis. {Nosol. Nat. t. i. p. 466. fol. Paris, 1817.) In November, 1817, Dr. Quadri, of Naples, tried this practice, which he erroneously supposed to be quite new. " By means of a trocar-pointed needle, six and a half inches long, I passed (says he) a seton from above downwards through the gland, at the depth of about four lines from its surface. Suppuration took place in forty-eight hours. On the 18ih of November, the seton es- caped, when the matter was squeezed out, and the irritation, occasioned by replacing it, produced an abscess on the right side of the neck, which was opened on the 23d, when it was found that the suppuration had affected the destruction of nearly the whole gland." The woman, who was thirty-six years of age, was seen by Dr. Somerville, in April, 1818, with the circumference of her neck lessened, from sixteen to thirteen inches French measure. In another case, referred to, a seton was passed through each side of the thy- roid gland, and the result was the removal of the tumor on the side where the seton had been main- tained long enough; but, on the opposite side, the seton being withdrawn too early, the matter col- lected in the sac, and at the end of four months, a sinus and discharge still continued, the patient refusing to have a counter opening practised. When the seton does not prove stimulating enough. Dr. Quadri sometimes enlarges it, or attaches to it escharotic, or irritating substances. He also fre- quently uses two setons. In one example, in en- deavouring to perforate the gland rather deeply. Dr. Quadri appears to have injured the larger branches of the thyroid arteries, as more than an ounce of blood was discharged, and the tumor swelled, as if injected with blood. The bleeding, however, ceased spontaneously. He states, that the seton has been passed through the tumor not less than sixteen times, the direction being varied in every instance, without untoward accident; and he is confident, that, unless the needle bo pushed deep enough almost to touch the thyroid cartilage, the trunks of the thyroid arteries will not be exposed to injury, while the branches, in the track of the needle, will not cause any danger. He insists also upon the propriety of retaining the seton in the tumor a considerable time; and ob- serves, that it remains to be ascertained whether this practice will answer in every description of bronchocele. For these and several other cases and particulars, the profession is indebted to Dr. Somerville. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. p. 16, ^"^ilr. Cunning applied a seton in a case of bion- chncele in St. Geoi-ge's Hospital; but, in this in-