SPLINTS. local. Acquired bad habits must be discontinued; in tlio »tnrch or gum-and-chalk solution occupations sucli as tend to produce spinal curva- ture must be given up ; and any inequality in the length of the legs arising from congenital defects, contractions of the knee or hip-joint following disease, or any other cause, must be compensated for. In most cases a spinal instrument should be used during growth, either with the view of curing the curvature when itiirises from removable causes (ir of preventing its increase, when the mechanica cause producing it is incapable of removal. Win. Adams, F.R.C.S. SPLINTS. Long thin pieces of wood, or tin, or strong pasteboard, employed for preventing tiie ends of bi-oken bones from moving so as to in- terrupt the process by which fractures unite. They are sometimes used in other cases, for the purpose of keeping the joints motionless, particularly in certain dislocations, wounds, &c. In simple fractures of the arm, forearm, or even of the thigh or leg, in young infants, it matters not whether the splints be made of wood, pasteboard, or tin. In this countr}', many surgeons keep sets of splints made expressly for the leg, which are of different sizes, excavated and shaped to the part, and furnished below with apertures or excavations for the projecting malleoli. When the limb is laid upon its outside, the foot is also usually supported and kept steady by the under splint extending to- wards the toes. Excellent splints for the legs of young children may be made of strong pasteboard accommodated in shape to the contour of the limb. Splints for the thigh, arm, and forearm, whether made of tin or wood, should always be slightly concave on the side which is to be applied to the broken limb. They should likewise be made as thin, and light, as is consistent with the degree of strength necessary for preventing the broken bone from bending. The sets of splints, which are used for fractured legs and thiahs by such practitioners as still follow Pott's plan of treatment, are fre- quently furnished with straps, which have a great many small perforations in them at stated distances, and can thus be easily fastened by means of little pegs for the purpose. With the same view, i roller and tapes are also sometimes employed Pasteboard, as a material for splints, has one ad vantage, viz., when wet, it becomes soft, and ad mits of being accurately applied to every point of the surface of the limb; consequently, as soon as It dries and recovers its firmness again, it retains the exact shape of the part, and makes everywhere equal pressure on it, without incommoding the patient. Pasteboard, however, is hardly strong and durable enough for many fractures; nor will It answer when there is a discharge, nor when the surgeon wishes to employ fluid applications. But it is generally allowed, that no substance is better calculated for fractures in children, and the broken lower jaw in adults. It admits also of being cut and adapted to cases, for which we have not the •exact apparatus at hand. Thus it is convenient for fractures of the lower part of the humerus, re- quiring angular splints, for which it may be con- verted into an excellent substitute. If wet before being applied, it forms, when dry, a solid covering, most accurately corresponding to the shape of the parts. [For soft splints, which mould themselves to the form of the limb, no material answers bettor than folds of linen or cotton texture, cut of a length and width suitable to each case, and then soaked VOt. II. C-25 , . , . = - These, applied in their semi-moist state by an ordinary bandage to the limb, will in twenty-four hours when dry, form a very complete support for a' fractured limb, or for a diseased joint. Gutta- percha also, in consequence of its peculiar property of being rendered temporarily soft and pliable when placed in hot water, or otherwise subjected to heat, will be found very useful in some cases, especially in fractures implicating joints. Tlie: rapidity with which it hardens renders the gutta- percha more fit than the soft starch splint in many instances.] Whatever may be the substance of which splints are made, they ought always to be at least as long as the fractured bone; and if the situation of the 'imb will allow, they ought, says Boyer, to extend ts whole length. "For instance (says he), for simple fractures of the thighs of very young child- ren, the pasteboard splints, which I employ, reach from the upper part of the thigh, to the lower part of the leg. Generally speaking, the longer splints are, the better they fix the limb, and keep the frac- ture steady." (Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. SO.) The number of splints must depend upon their breadth and the thickness of the limb. For the forearm, two are sufficient; for the upper arm and thigh, four are often used; and for the leg, two, and sometimes three. In cases of fractured thighs, when the straight position is preferred, the external splint should ex- tend from three or four inches above the crista of the ilium to some little distance beyond the sole of the foot; while the inner one, if it be employed, should reach from the upper and internal part of the thigh also beyond the sole of the foot. With respect to an anterior splint, this is now less fre- quently used than formerlj', and it need only reach from the groin to the knee. The lateral splints for a broken leg ought to be sufficiently long to embrace the knee and confine the motions of the foot and ankle. When the straight posture is adopted, a splint is sometimes laid along the front of the leg, from the patella to the lower part of the tibia; but if the other splints be of good construction, this plan is seldom of any real use. [Amongst the numerous improvements and in- ventions appertaining to solid splints, two in^-enious contrivances may be mentioned, by which solid splints may be made to follow the outline of a limb. The first was invented by the late Mr Neville of Esher. It consisted of splints made of narrow bars of flexible metal, but of sufficient resistance, when once bent to suit the outline of the limb, to retain their form. The other is the iiveiition of Mr. Winchester, the principle of which 3, that a metal splint of any desired length fittinir the form of the limb may be made by fixing to gether short separate pieces of metal by means of slides and screws. Either of these splints answer the purpose in view, but have not come into general use.] In University College Hospital, fractures of the leg are generally placed on M'lntyre's apparatus or the modification of it, suggested by Mr. Listen' while fractures of the thigh are mostly kept in thd extended posture, with a single very long splint reaching from the lower part of the chest to some way beyond the outer edge of the f„ot, and an plied according to the principles explained in tho s s