[52] INFLAMMATION. The conclusions drawn from tliese experiments are—Ist, that there are nerve-fibres other than those contained in tlie peupheric end of the cut sciatic, whereby the arteries in tlie lower ex- tremities can be influenced ; 2nd, that the arteries can be made to contract through these by reflex action. After the irritation has lasted for a time, the circulation through arteries, capillaries, and veins becomes so quick that it cannot be followed by the eye with a magnifying power of SO. Savi- otti, on the other hand, found with nnrrowing of the vessels a retardation of the blood flow, and in some of Strieker's experiments irritation of the me. duUa oblongata produced contraction almost to a line, and complete stasis. After prolonged irritation, Riegel found con- tracted arteries suddenly dilate, and after a few seconds or minutes return to their former dimen- sions, After very prolonged irritation, dilatation to even more than the original size of the vessel ensued, probably as the result of exhaustion. Examination of the web of the opposite font gave no very satisfactory results. At all events, weak central currents had no effect; strong currents gave rise to accelerated flow. This would tend to show that the irritant acted not through the system at large, or even on the heart, otherwise both sides should have been affected alike, but rather through the spinal cord as a centre. 11. Inferences.—Yvom all this it is manifest that the so-called vaso-motor nerves have much to do with the phenomena of inflammation, especially as regards the alterations in the size of vessels and the blood pressure within them. Moreover, the same system of nerves command the heart, the central oraan of the circulation. Direct irritation of certain of°them accelerate its action, whilst if others be at the same time irritated, the blood-pressure in the vessels is at the same time increased. These nerves all belong to the so-called ganglionic or sympathetic system, but filaments of these undoubtedly exist in mixed nerves like the sciatic, or even like the ophthalmic, and so the vascular system may be acted upon through these also, not alone by para- lysing the heart from pain, but more directly and immediately. . , ■ . c Perhaps, however, the most interesting point ot all thus made out is, that these so-called ganglionic fibres have a central origin. They are motor hbres oricrinating in the medulla oblongata, and making their way out of the spinal cord at various points. They pass outwards, first to the various cervical, dorsal and abdominal ganglia, thence to the vessels and other organs. This much seems clear, and though as yet the subject is surrounded with dim- culty, there are good hopes for the future, and we may hereafter attain to a more intimate acquaint- ance with vaso-motor pathology. ProfessorLaycock specially indicates) on t)\elymp!t- atics; that the trophic system is anterior to llie vaso-motor, just as the action of the tissues is anterior to both ; that the blood, like the tissues, has a growth and nutrition of its own, yet regu- lated and interfered with by the nerves ; that the trophic system may sanction or may inhibit the setting-up of local disease, and presides over its distribution and metastasis. We shall see how well Professor Laycock's views are borne out when we come to speak of the prevention of disease, the use of opium and of neurotic counter-irritants. (^Lectures on Injlwvce of Nervous System in Disease, Med. Times and Gaz., 1871, vol. i.) Hitherto we have described a neuro-pathology chiefly based on vivisection; but Professor Laycock has deduced a system from teachings o physi- ology and the observation of disease. His main principles are that tissue is''^"'^'^^dent to nerve and vessel ; that nerve-force of a motor order regulates nutrition ; and he gives the "'-^'"^'7*''^'1 £ results of disorder of this force ; that the trophic nerves (motor spinal) act on the tissues, conveying to them force from the special nervous centres ; that the sympathetic or vaso-motoract on the hollow contractile tubes, arteries, veins, capillaries, and \,as Section Q.—Treatment.—The treatment of in- flammation resolves itself into three kinds: pre- ventive, expectant, and curative. 1. Preretitive Treatment.—If inflammation be threatened, whether after injury or in consequence of conditions affecting the health generallj', "the first and great requisite," says Hunter, " is rest "— rest both mechanically, so that there may be no movement, and rest physiologically, so that the threatened organ may be relieved as far as possible from its duties. Thus the delicate material employed in the work of repair will be allowed to develope itself, whereas if disturbed it may perish, and in- flammatory changes follow. On this point we may refer to Hunter (On Inflammation, p. 2, c. 6), and to the exceUent Lectures of Hilton {On Eest and Pain, Lond. 1863). Hilton justly traces most of the disastrous after-consequences of concussion (i. e. bruises) of the brain, spinal cord, and joints to want of entire and timely rest. In threatened inflammation of any part of the respiratory appa- ratus rest in bed is essential. When there is risk of inflammation of the bowels, their action should be suspended by opiates. Entire rest includes of course confinement to bed—a simple and despised but most valuable remedy. It lessens the move- ments of the heart and lungs ; by keeping up warmth it renders less food necessary; by keeping up the action of the skin it lessens the stress _ on the lungs and kidneys ; it renders occupation irk- some, and so keeps the brain and senses at rest. In fact, after a shake, fall, bruise, excessive fatigue, chill, operation, wound, or other injury the surgeon must be negligent indeed who hesitates to enforce absolute rest. As a secon d preventive measure, auxiliary to rest, we must mention narcotics. They diminish, as John Hunter and Dr. Macartney (quoted, p. 64) well showed, the sense of injury and the danger of constitutional sympathj'. Under opium an injury to an irritable anxious man becomes like one in- flicted on a negro or an animal ; the attmtion ceases to be directed to the spot, mental apprehen- sions vanish, sleep is ensured, and the vegetative actions of repair go on without disturbance from over-action of heart or brain. What the narcotic shall be the surgeon must decide in each individual case. For children, and many delicate adults, conium in full doses answers well ; but for most persons opium (and especially the solution of the watery extract—Xi^wor Opn Sedativus, or Dover's Poxoder) is the sheet anchor. The plan adopted by the most sagacious practi- tioners is to give it regularly in sufticient doses to keep down restlessness and the first beginnings of