540 ^vhich had existed for "a longer or shorter time, th<at I cannot but regard this state of constitution as a fertile source of tiiose cardiac diseases whicli are met with in early life." (Lib. cit. p. 111.) Ihe pericardium, the endocardium, or the valves may be affected and tlie cardiac inflammation date Its origin from the same period, and be produced by the same cause as the other local affections. These affections of tlie heart, although most frequently the results of attacks of acute rheumatic fever, are nevertheless met with in rheumatic subjects who have not previously experienced an acute attack. (See Fuller, lib. cit.) In surgical practice care is required also that an attack of rheumatic fever be not confounded with pj-aemia, glanders, and some other diseases. The early symptoms of glanders consist of pains and swellings of the joints and copious foetid perspira- tions. Cases of puerperal fever with purulent affection of the joints, and of pyaemia occurring under various circumstances, have been mistaken for rheumatism. Puerperal disease, assuming a typhoid type, with swellings of the large joints and destruction of the cartilages, particularly when unattended with pain or tenderness at the lower part of the abdomen, has a strict resemblance to rheumatic fever. Rheumatic affections generally have also, as already intimated, to be distinguished from gout, or, in mixed cases, the effects of the lactic acid from those of the lithic acid acrimony. The history of the case, the age, the sex, the con- stitution, and the habits of the patient, aid in the diagnosis. Gout shows a disposition to an elective affinity for the materies morbi in one particular spot, whereas the malnutrition in rheumatism locates itself more generally; in the former disease the larger joints are most frequently affected; in the latter the small joints of the lower extremi- ties ; in the former, also, there is an absence of any excess of lithic acid in the blood or any de- posit of lithate of soda, two circumstances which characterise the latter. (See arts. Pyemia; Uric Acid Diathesis; Uremia.) 27(6 treatment of the lactic acid condition or tendency in the blood requires the strictest atten- tion to diet and regimen for a very long period. Dr. Todd remarks—" It cannot be expected that a state of system which has perhaps been inherited, or which has been the result of a morbid element slowly and gradually from an early period mingling itself with the elements of nutrition, in the molecu- lar changes of the frame . . .can be removed in a short time. Years are required to remove or to diminish the strumous diathesis; the rheumatic constitution cannot be expected to change in a much shorter time." The indications are:—1, To avoid all articles of food which favour the develop- ment of lactic acid. Sugar and beer should be proscribed, the less oxygenised acids avoided as much as possible, butter and milk taken sparingly. Independently of any tendency these substances have to transpose into lactic acid in the alimentary canal, they all absorb the ox3-gen of the blood, and render it less efficient in the oxygenation of the products of secondary assimilation, whether of the lactic acid or lithic acid series. Light animal, cereal, and farinaceous diet is to be preferred; and if stimulants be necessary, the purest spirit di'luted and without sugar, or the lightest and driest wines, i^ydenham remarked—" With young persons, and those who have not over indulged in wine, rheu- RIIEUMATISM. matism may be dispelled simply by spare and very cooling diet, provided that it be moderately nourish- mg." In an attack of acute rheumatism which, as al- ready stated,so often supervenes upon the lactic acid condition of the blood, according to the same autho- rity, a system of diet constitutes an essential part of the cure:—" Let the patient live on nothing but whey for four days, afterwards taking, besides the whey, some fine wheaten bread once a day as his dinner, until he is thoroughly convalescent. During w\ ^^^^ allowed a little bread at supper VVhen the symptoms are giving way, he may take a little tender chicken boiled, or some similar diges- tible food. Every third day, however, he must be limited to the whey alone,and this until his strength has wholly returned." In the present day, active depletion being so much objected to, a strict diet is all the more necessary to prevent permanently inju- rious or fatal consequences in many of the violent commotions of the blood which depend upon specific acrimonies. In rheumatic dietetics there is another important principle not to be overlooked, particularly when we have to deal with a constitutional vice of young people. A just admixture of thestaniinal principles of nutrition is necessary, taking care not only that the diet as a whole is devoid of any excess of those materials which are most prone to run into the lactic acid formation, and that it contains all that is essen- tial to growth and nutrition, but also that there is a proper admixture of such materials at each meal. The digestion of protein substances being promoted by the admixture of hydrocarbons, and the diges- tion of the hydrocarbons by the admixture of olea- ginous matter, and saline and mineral substances being essential to the digestion of the whole; the lactic acid tendency is to be counteracted by an admixture of these at each principal meal in quan- tities and proportions such as is suited to the age, the state of development, the temperament and tlie habits of the individual. 2. In this diathesis all external agencies which have a tendency to prevent the excretion of lactic acid by tlie skin should be avoided, and those re- sorted to which promote the healthy functions of this organ. Undue exposure to cold and draught, espe- cially when the body, or any particular part of it, is rapidly cooling from perspiration, is dangerous ; and warm clothing, exercise, friction, warm bathing, the j vapour and the hot air bath, are indicated. The Roman bath has undoubtedly the power of very materially aiding the evacuation of lactic acid from the system, and together with these remedies, which prevent the excessive formation of the acid and promote its oxidation, is one of the most effi- cient of our remedies. Where painful local affec- tions set in, anodyne sudorifics, and particularly Dover's powder, should be employed. 3. To promote the digestion of food and coun- ter.ict the effects of indigestion, by sustaining the alvine discharges, administering al:eratives to coun- teract the tendency to form lactic acid in llie stomach, and tonics, particularly iron and quinine, to give increased power to this organ, 4. To promote the oxidation of lactic acid, lithic acid, and every effete substance in the blood, by exercise where it can be taken, by the respiration of a pure air, and by special remedies having that tendency. The lactic acid is believed, like vege- table acids, to require combination with an alkali before it can be oxidised, Iicnec the further use of