pneumonia or of a so-called inflammatory infarction. INFLAMMATION, thrombosis in the region of the pelvis or the lower lari kind of origin as tlie rule. When a great number of" cases is compared statistically, it is shown that wiu'iiever metastasis oocurs there is thrombosis of certain vessels. We have had lately, for instance, a rather severe epidemic of puerperal fever, and it was found, that however varied the forms of the disease might be, yet all the cases which wore asso- ciated with metastases in the lungs exhibited also extremities, while in the inflammations of the lymphatic vessels, the metastases into the lungs ■were wanting." " In the pulmonary artery the portions of thrombus which ace introduced pene- trate to a difi'erent extent according to their size. A portion of the thrombus usually sticks fast where there is a division of the artery, because the vessels into which it divides are too small to admit it. By very large portions the main trunks of the pul- monary artery are obstructed and instantaneous as- phyxia is produced, and again other portions enter into the most minute arteries and there they develop very small and sometimes miliary inflam- mations of the parenchyma." (Op. cit. p. 817.) Hence it appears to be established that fibrinous concretions in portions of the vascular system may, by being disintegrated and hurried away into the current of the circulation, become the source of local ancEmia, softening of parenchymatous struc- tures, congestion of blood, hsemorrhage, inflammation and m.ortification. The concretions on the valves of the left side of the heart may by such transport- ation cause the formation of plugs or emboli in the various arteries throughout the body, not only giving rise to mortification of the extremities, but also to various congestive, inflammatory, hasmorrhagic or other diseases of important organs, as the brain, the stomach, or the kidneys, in proportion as the cerebral, the gastric, or the renal arteries may be affected. Fibrinous concretions on the right side of the heart will give rise to local obstruction of the pulmonary arteries, and hence to pneumonia, pleurisy, and bronchitis, or to congestion, hsemorr- hage, and gangrene of the lung, and concretions of the portal vein will induce obstructive disease of the liver,with its concomitant phenomena, especially dropsy of the abdomen. The most complete work which has hitherto ap- peared on this subject is that of Dr. B. Cohn, of the University of Breslau, who in his Klirdk det- emholischen Gefasslcrankheilen,^\xh\\s,hei in lf!60, has given not only the history of embolism, but a clinical description of its effects as shown in the various vessels and tissues of the body. The following passages will convey a pretty correct idea of the mode in which embolism induces destructive disease in two of the most important organs. Speaking of embolism of the pulmonary arteries, he advances the following statement:— " Capillary embolism of the lungs is a common and very dangerous metastasis. Hiemorrhagic in- farction is invariably produced by this cause, and l"hular metastatic abscess for the most part origi- Jialcs in the same manner. The infarction is in its nature a capillary process, and the bleeding which Dianifests it is produced through the free streams which pour, under the suddenly and enormously aug- niented pressure of blood crowding into the vicinity |)( th(! numerous embulically obstructed vessels. The infarction is distinfjuished from other diffuse cfTu- "lons of blood by the granulation of the surfaces exposed by section and the greater density of the 41 extravasation. If the capillaries offer greater resist- ance and an opportunity is afforded of examining the process some time after its commencement, there is developed in the hypera3mic region a process analogous to inflammation : it is thus that lobu- lar metastasis originates, with its rapid transition to formation of abscess. A combination of the two states presents the form of a liaemorrhagic The arteries within this deposit, however small they may be, never appear affected, and the clots which fill their canals are always secondarj' and recent formations. The cure of the process of infarction is very common in the first stage, only exceptional in that which has advanced farther, whilst in metastatic infiltration and abscess it has hardly ever been observed." (Op. cit. p. 353.) Again, in reference to inflammation of the kidney. Embolism of the renal artery is twofold, either, a, astride of a greater or smaller ramification, or, h, plugging up the vessel more or less completely ; in the first case the cavity of the vessel is not wholly impermeable, and therefore there is neither anato- mical nor microscopical evidence of disease of the tissue. Only in so far as the prolongations of the thrombi become loose and oppose themselves to the free stream, do they develope secondary em- boli of the peripheral vessels and of the capil- 1 rp]|g cortical part becomes especially the seat of the developement of the infarctions. But when the embolus in the first instance totally ex- cludes the entrance of blood into a vessel, there follows in some parts anaamia, but very commonly an intense hyperaemia with capillary ecchymosis ; the plug becomes incorporated with the walls of the vessel and thereby becomes smaller, and partly by this means, and partly by favourable collateral circumstances, this inconvenience, which is usually slight, is removed. Often, however, the plug con- ceals within it a specifically irritating power, and in this case there is developed not only an inflam- mation of the coats of the vessel, and a formation of abscess which may lead to perforation within and without, but also an inflammation of the adjoining parenchyma itself, and hence arises a white wedge-shaped infiltration, which may com- plete the stages of every process of its kind, includ- ing abscess and gangrene." (Op. cit. p. 579.) Dr. G. M. Humphry has written an essay, greater part of which is upon the subject of clots of blood in the veins, and among other conclusions he considers that inflammation of the veins is often caused by the presence of the clots. {On tlie Coagtilcttion of the Blood in the Venous Svsiein during Life. Cambridge, 1859, p. 23.) Mr. Shaw has exhibited to the Pathological Society of London several morbid preparations showing the coincidence of fibrinous obstructions in the middle cerebral artery, with warty excres- cences of the mitral valve. (^Transactions of the Pathological Society, vol. iv. p. 29, and vol. vi. p. 33.) Dr. J. W. Ogle has shown to the same society several preparations illustrating the same subject and although in all the cases there was not suffi- cient evidence of the existence of vegetations on the cardiac valves, yet Dr. Ogle suggests that they might have been removed during life by the action of the blood. (Op. cit. vol. iv. p. 142, vi p gj X. p. 20, and xii. p. 4). ' ^' ' Dr. J. .1. Goodfellow has published in the Me- dico-Chirurgicfll Trftnaactions for 1062, the parti-