[SEASES OF. ^."33 RECTUM, D has been devised by Mr. Armstrong Todd, con- sisting of two blades, which are sepnrated by means of a screw, after the instrument has been intro- duced tlirough the stricture. Stricture of the roctum, unless perhaps when treated in its verj- early stages, when it is seldom discovered, is a most obstinate, and, it may be said, incurable disease. It is remediable to a great extent by dilatation, and when so treated, it seems to exercise but a slightly prejudicial in- fluence on the health of the patient, who may re- main for years without any material aggravation of his disease; but if the use of instruments be discontinued, rapid recontraction will always take place. Even in the most favourable cases, the coats of the bowel seem never to recover theii- original elasticity and distensibility. The general treatment consists of mild laxatives, and tonics; in some cases, especially where there is much ulcera- tion, the iodide of potassium is of very great service. Stricture is common in patie;its suffering from syphilis, and may probably in such cases be one of the consequences of that disease; but when once established, syphilitic stricture, if it deserves to be so called, differs in no respects in its symp- toms or progress from strictures arising from other causes. Cases of stricture are occasionally met with, especially when the disease is situated high up, in which the symptoms of obstruction are so ur- gent, that the propriety of opening the colon in the lumbar region may require to be considered. The question is discussed in the article on Intes- tinal Obstructions. Modern experience goes far to show that colotomy is a much less serious operation, both as regards immediate risk, and the condition in which it leaves the patient, than it was formerly considered.] Cancer of thk Rectum. Malignant Disease; Sciirho-Contraded Rectum. —According to Desault, scirrhus of the rectum is not uncommon at an advanced period of life, and afflicts women more frequently than men; as from a table, kept at the Hotel Dieu, it appears that ten cases out of eleven occurred in females; a pro- portion far exceeding what has been noticed in this country. Indeed, Mr. Calvert sets down the greater frequency of the disease in one sex than the other, as a doubtful point. (Op. cit. p. 122.) If it were not for the fact, that Desault sometimes effected the cure of the disease in its early stage, I should venture to conclude that his observations apply entirely to true scirrhus, or c;uicer of the rectum, which I bi-lieve rarely or never occurs in young patients, but, as Desault states, is not very unfrequent in elderly persons. My friend, Mr. Copeland, does not confine his remarks to really cancerous affections, but comprehends strictures of the rectum from a variety of causes; and this ac- counts for his statement that the disease '''attacks people of almost all ayes,'" but is most common about the middle age. However, he agrees with Desault, that women are more frequently the sub- jects of it than men. He believes that stricture of the rectum is not so often cancerous as is imagined; the mere induration not being an un- equivocal proof of it. When the disease is truly cancer, it is usually attended with more severe pain, darting tlirough the pelvis to the bladder and groin; the countenance is sallow {On the Principal Dis. of the Rectum, p. 15 17); and the patient frequontly labours under hepatic, or some other visceral affection. {Sir B. Brudie, Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xvl. p. 237.) [This difference of opinion as to the relative frequency of this disease in the two sexes proba- bly arose from the imperfect distinction between stricture of the rectum and malignant dise;ise. Stricture is without doubt much more frequent in females, but this is not the case with cancer; on the contrary, if there is any difference the pre- ponderance is certainly, in the experience of the writer, and as shown by the records of St. Mark's Hospital, on the side of the male sex.] The disease is represented as most frequently beginning just above the internal sphincter. (Calvert.) Mr. Salmon believes that it originates in the mucous glands of the intestine, which are here most prevalent. (On Stricture of the Rectum, p. 21.) Mr. Calvert's investigations lead him, however, to admit the situation of the disease to be occasionally higher up, and especially in the sig- moid flexure. Cancer of the rectum rarely begins before the middle period of life, and the symptoms come on slowly and insidiously, The patient at first experiences slight uneasiness about the rectum, followed by some difficulty in passing his evacu- ations. This difficulty increases, and the uneasi- ness changes into pain; the stomach becomes dis- ordered, and the health begins to fail. In the advanced stage, there is for the most part great difficulty in passing the evacuations; but this depends upon the degree of obstruction. At length, there is a constant discharge of bloody mucus, and incessant pain, aggravated after each evacuation from the bowels. The pain is especially referred to the lower part of the back, but there is also pain in the thighs, nates, and hips. " If at this period of the disease you institute an examination of the rectum, you find the morbid growth a little way up the bowel, within reach of the finger. But it varies in size, in figure, and in position in dif- ferent cases. Sometimes there is a hard solid tumor, occupying only a portion of the circum- ference of the rectum, and usually situated at the back part, with elevated edges, and, as it were, excavated in the middle, the bowel not being contracted in size, but as capacious as ever. At other time?, the morbid growth occupies the entire circumference of the bowel, which t;dces a winding course through its substance. Then, if you intro- duce your finger into the rectum, you meet with a large solid mass, and with some difficulty discover the orifice of the intestine in its centre. Some- times the diseased structure extends down quite as low as the anus. More frequently it begins about two inches above it, the intestine below being in a healthy state. There is great variety also as to the extent of the disease upwards. The whole of it may be within reach of the finger, so that the healthy portion of the intestine may be perceived above it; or it may extend so high up, that you can in no wa}' trace its upper border. In some instances, the disease is 0)mplicated with the addition of several pendulous excrescences, which come down through the anus when the patient passes his j3vacuations, .and this very much aggravates his sufferings. In the advanced stage, there is sometimes, but not frequentlj', a large hiemorrhage frcun the bowel. Abscesses form in the neighbourhood, and burst externally. lu females they burst into the vagina, and the opening