"^^^ TONGUE, DISEASES OF, cessation of the horrible pain and restlessness caused by the disease seems to enable the patient at once to rally, and to counterbalance any shock which the operation iniglit otherwise inflict." Mr. Nunneley goes on to say, " I do not assert that the operation will be a permanent cure in all cases-of cancer of the tongue, any more than the removal of a cancerous tumor in other situations of the body will secure immunity from relapse ; but of this I am confident, that by affording the means of removing a larger portion than has formerly been thought to be practicable, and inducing an earlier performance of the operation, so as to secure the entire removal of all parts involved in the disease, it will, in accordance with all practical teaching, give the patient a far better chance of recovery, and, should the disease have been local, and not depen- dent upon a constitutional diathesis, this may be permanent." (Briiish Med. Journal, Nov. 3, 1866.) At the above date Mr. Nunneley had operated on five cases, but more recently (August, 1869) he states, " I have, up to the present time, removed the entire tongue nineteen times without any un- toward symptom following in a single instance. In most cases the patient has not required any after treatment, being able to sit up the following day, and in ten days to be considered well. In the majority of operations not a drachm of blood has been lost. In two cases only has there been any haemorrhage, and in those not more than half an ounce of blood was lost. In one a point of hot wire, and in the other a ligature at once arrested tlie bleeding. The little constitutional disturbance which follows this operation is surprising ; indeed in the majority of cases there is none." {British Med. Journal, August 7, 1869, p. 146.) Mr. Paget has also removed the tongue succes- fully with the ecraseur, and speaks highly of the safety and efficiency of the method. He does not employ the submental incision recommended by Mr. Nunneley, but has the tongue well drawn for- ward out of the mouth ; and, in order that this may be effectually done, he previously divides the attachments of the tongue to the jaw, both in front, where there are the genio-hyo-glossi muscles, and at the sides, where it is connected with the mucous membrane. In a clinical lecture Mr. Paget observes, " The motive to operate here, as in other cases, is either to prolong life or, without shortening, to comfort wliat remains. For the first there is, I believe, some advantage'—not a great prolongation of life, yet enough to justify an operation which is at- tended with very little suffering or risk; but the chief motive is in the hope of comfort, and the com- fort that may be gained is in many cases so great as to justify a greater risk of life than is incurred in any of the ordinary operations for the removal of cancer of the tongue. The risk is really very small. I have not had a fatal case, or witnessed one ; and the comfort given is that the patient is delivered for the time from all the misery of one of the most distressing and disabling conditions of disease, and, till the cancerous growth is renewed, may enjoy complete health and do all his work. Doubtless the disease will return after the opera- tion; but it is as unreasonable to refuse a painless operation, and one free from risk of life, because the disease will return at some time soon after it, as It xvould be to refuse a course of medicine be- cause It gi\L-s only temporary relief. When a man has only suppose two or three years to live, it is no small advantage if at least half the time can be spent in comfort rather than in misery, and in profitable work rather than in painful idleness. Looking back on the many cases of cancer of the tongue that I have had to do with, I should be disposed to say that there is no organ on which operations for cancer are more justly performed or more to be urged, even in extreme cases. For the method of operation the choice lies between the knife and the ecraseur. Caustic is not to be thought of, unless in a case of the very smallest extent; and the cases in which the ligature should be used must be extremely rare. I have never employed it, for the only advantage which it offers— that of avoiding haemorrhage—is just as well, and much less offensively, obtained by the dcraseur. The risks and trouble of hiemorrhage are, however, much over-rated; and I believe the knife may be preferred to the ecraseur in all but the largest ope- rations, such as those for the removal of the whole tongue." {Med. Times and Gazelle, Feb. 10, 1866.) Ligature of Lingual Arteries.—M. Demarquny recommends ligature of both lingual arteries in severe cases of cancer of the tongue, with a view, not to cure the disease, but to produce atrophy of the morbid growth, and thus to obtain prolongation of life. He states that he has practised this ope- ration three times on patients in a bad condition, and the result has been satisfactory in every case. In one patient, who was exhibited to the Socie'te de Chirurgie, the tumor, which had been so large as almost entirely to preclude speaking, mastica- tion, anj swallowing, was much diminished in size by the operation, and the patient could eat, speak, and swallow without any great difficulty. The operation was attended with no inconvenient results beyond a little temporary dysphagia, and the wounds always cicatrised rapidly." (Sse Gaz. des Hopitaua; May 20, 1865 ; and Gaz. Med. de Farts, 1867, p. 634.) In an aggravated case of cancer of the tongue in St. Mary's Hospital, one of the lingual arteries was lied by Mr. J. Lane, but without any perceptible effect upon the tumor. It was proposed to tie the artery on the opposite side shortly afterwards, but the patient refused to submit. The mode of operation pr.ictised in this case was that recom- mended by Malgaigne (see Glem. de Mid. Opir. Ed. V. p. 171), by which the vessel may be ex- posed with great certainty and facility. An in- cision about 1^ inches in length is made parallel with the cornu of the os hyoides, and just above it. The platysma must be divided to the same extent, and if any large vein be found in the way beneath it it must either be drawn aside or divided and ligatured. The subniiixiUary gland, the lower edge of which is exposed, must be pushed a little upwards. The tendon of the digastric is then clearly seen, connected by the fascia with the os hyoides, where it forms two sides of a small trian- gular space, the base of which, situated above, is formed by the hypoglossal nerve. Both tendon and nerve are here lying upon the hyoglossus mus- cle, while the artery runs beneath it. If the fibres of this muscle be divided in the small triangular space above mentioned, the artery will at once be seen, and a ligature can be passed under it with a curved probe or aneurism needle.] Some exceedingly painful ulcers on the tongue