918 VENEREAL DISEASE. disease of tliese several organs—should be all classified as tertiary aflVctions, and be treated by iodide of potassium and sai'saparilla ; while the otiier less severe affections may be grouped toge- ther as secondary, and require, as a general rule, the exhibition of mercury for their cure.] Venereal Disease of the Throat, Mouth, and Tonc/ue.—Tn the throat, tonsils, and inside of the mouth, it seems generally to make its appearance at once in the form of an ulcer, without much previous tumefaction. A venereal ulcer in the throat was supposed by Mr. Hunter to be in general well-marked, though not in every instance distinguishable from an ulcer of a different nature. Several diseases «f the throat, he remarks, do not produce ulceration on the surface. One is common inflammation of the tonsils. The inflamed place often suppurates in the centre, so as to form an abscess, which bursts by a small opening, but never looks like an; ulcer that has begun superficially, like a true ve- nereal sore. The case is always attended with too much inflammation, pain, and tumefaction of the parts to be venereal. Also, when it suppurates and bursts, it subsides directlj', and it is generally attended with other inflammatory symptoms in the constitution. Mr. Hunter describes the true venereal ulcer of the throat as a/air loss of substance, part heuu) dug out, as it were, from tlie hndy of the tonsil; it has a delerminale edge, and is commonly very foul, having thick white matter lilce a slough adhering to it, and not admitting of being washed away. Ac- cording to one writer, the ulceration is attended with little pain at first, and excavates the part deeply, and often in a t-riangular form, as if the tonsil were split. It slowly acquires a smooth buffy surface. ( Welbank, in Med. Chir. Trans. vol. xiii. p. .569.) Here, however, as in most other supposed forms of syphilis, some test is wanting by which the case may be certainly distinguished from other diseases of the throat presenting similar appearances ; for, as Mr. Rose remarked, " the excavated ulcer of the tonsils, as described by Mr. Hunter, is not, as Mr. Carmichael seems to think, a peculiar symptom of the presence of the syphilitic virus, i have re- peatedly seen it, as we'll as the scaly blotch, in cases where mercury had been freely employed for the primary sores, and in which .1 considered the virus as eradicated; and both have disappeared under the use of sarsaparilla." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol . viii p 421.) In a recent work, Mr. Carmichael himself acknowledges the justice of the preceding observation, and owns thut, since the publication of his Essays, he has often noticed the excavated ulcer of the tonsils either attending the primary phagedenic ulcer, or the train of constitutional Bvraptoms which arise from it. {On the Symptoms 4^c. of Venereal Diseases, p. 17.) I" affections of the throat. Dr. Hennen states, that he ' would be more guarded than in any others in the employ- ment of n.ercurv, until all inflammatory dispo- sition was removed." Afterwards he has seen them yield, " as if by magic, so soon as the local effects of mercury, on the parts withm the mouth, became obvious." But when mercury was gi'-en earlier, he has seen a vast number of instances in which irremediable mischief was done. {On Mth- iary Sunjcry, Snd ed. p. 51B.) According 10 Hunter, lues venerea sometimes produces a thickening and hardening of the tongue, but frequently nkeration, as in other parts of the mouth. He describes venereal sores on the tongue as generally more painful than those on the skin, but less so than common sore-throats from in- flamed tonsils. They oblige the patient to speak thick, as if his tongue were too large for his mouth, 1 with a sniitll degree of snuffling. It is a remarkable fact that Mr. Hunter did not recognise any case of venereal inflammation of the eye ; yet the frequency of syphilitic iritis is now a fact as well and as universally established as any in surgery. It may be enumerated also as in the early class of secondary symptoms, and as being very often accompanied with a papular eruption, periostitis, and pains and swellings of the fibrous textures about the joints. Its treatment has been considered in the article Iritis. Of the later class of secondary symptoms {ter- tiary), the periosteum, fasciae, tendons, ligaments, and bones are the parts which Mr. Hunter enume- rates, as liable to be affected in the second stage of lues venerea ; to these should be added the testicle and the larynx. It is an observation of Mr. Hunter, that we cannot always know with certainty what parts may become affected in this stage of the disease. He has known the dis- temper produce a total deafness, sometimes fol- lowed by suppuration, and great pain in the ear and side of the head. I have already explained that it was one of his doctrines, that the second order of parts was generally deep-seated. When these become irritated by the poison, he observes that the piogress of-the disease is more gradual than in the first order'of parts. It assumes very much the character of scrofulous swellings, or chronic rheumatism, only it affects the joints less frequently than the latter affection does. A swell- ing sometimes makes its appearance on a bone, . when there'has been no possible means of catching ■ the infection for many months; and in conse- ■ quence of the little pain experienced, the tumo.ir raav be of considerable size before it is noticed. Sometimes a great deal of pain is felt but no . swelling comes on till after a long while. Ac- cording to Mr. Hunter, these remarks are also t applicable to swellings of the tendons and fascias. . As tumours of this kind only increase by slow de- - erees, they are not attended with symptoms ot I much inflammation. When they attack the penos- • teum, they seem like an enlargement of the bone itself, in cons-^uence of being very fi'"' "'^^ closely connected with the latter part In these ■ advanced stages of the disease, the jnAamma on can hardly get beyond the adhesive kind, in «lucj state it cmitinues to become worse and «'orse,ana I when matter is fonned it is not true pus. Some nodes, he says, both of the tendons b""^;' for vears before they form any '^^.T The'se cases, he considered as not hemg cMS venereal, though commonly "^fS^ Mr. Hunter found it difficult to explain the reason whv when lues venerea attacks the bones, or tne ■ t^::!, the pain should be consj^^^^^^ able and sometimes but trivial. Venereal pamsi h b nes are described by him ''-'g ."^^ periodical kind, generally most severe m the night 'Tt the present day, when many -es form^^^^^ pposed to be syphilitic, are treated w ' «^ supposed to be syphilitic, are mercury, and even those which are reputed