it is proper to make the opening where the conical eminence, or (as it is termed) the pointing, ap- pears. Thus, if an abscess should form in the centre of the breast, and point at the uppermost part, which is often the case, it would be impro- per to cut through the lower half of the mamma, in order to make a passage for the matter in that direction. If an abscess should form on the up- per part of the foot, it would be wrong to make ;ui opening through the sole of the foot to get at the most depending part of the abscess ; for, be- sides cutting such a depth of sound parts, a great many useful ones would be destroyed. When the abscess did not point in a depending situation, Mr. Hunter preferred leaving the col- lection of matter first to burst of itself, and then dilating the opening as freely as necessary. By allowing abscesses to burst spontaneously, the opening is not so apt to heal as if made by art, and therefore, Mr. Hunter conceived, better, in such situations. In most cases, however, it is decidedly better even to cut through a certain thickness of parts, for the sake of obtaining a depending opening, than to make the opening where the pointing appears; that is, where the parts are thinnest, and the matter is nearest the surface. This advice is worthy of remembrance, when there is no doubt of the existence of matter at the depending place, and when the parts to be divided are not import- ant. Collections of matter beneath the fascia of the forearm and thigh particularly demand attention to this direction, as they commonly point where those fibrous expansions are tninnest, not where the matter can most readily escape. Ab- scesses in the sheath of the rectus abdominis should also be opened in a low situation. Different Methods op opening Abscesses. All abscesses will sooner or later naturally burst of themselves, unless the matter be absorbed ; and sometimes they ought to be allowed to take this course. There are, however, as I have al- ready explained, particular circumstances which urgently require an early opening; but, when the skin over the abscess is very thin, it is not of much consequence, whether the case be permitted to burst of itself, or it be opened by the surgeon. When abscesses are laige, it is generally ne- cessary to open them by art, whether they'have burst of themselves or not ; for the natural opening will seldom be sufficient for the com- pletion of a cure; and, although it may be suf- ficient for the free discharge of the matter, ypi th ese abscesses will heal much more readily when a free opening is made ; for the tliin skin over the cavity granulates but indifferently, and there- fore unites but slowly with the parts underneath. (^Hunter.) Abscesses may be opened either with a lancet or knife, or occasionally by making an eschar with caustic. Against the latter plan, however, strong objections generally lie : the use of caustic is not usually attended with any advantage which may not be obtained by a simple puncture or in- cision : upon a tender inflamed part it gives much more pain ; it is more slow in its effects ; and the surgeon can never direct its action so nicely as to destroy exactly the parts which he wishes, and no more. If the eschar be not made deep enough the lancet must, after all, be used. Caustic also leaves SUPPURATION. a disagreeable scar, a consideration of much import- ance in the female neck or face. To these numerous objections I may add, that the eschar is frequently ten or twelve days in becoming detached. It is seldom, except when there is a redundance of skin, or when there is a good deal of it thinned and undermined, that caustic should be preferred. It may sometimes be advantageously resorted to when there is a good deal of indolent hardness around a small abscess. For this purpose, the potassa cum calce, or the J90- tassa alone, is ttie best caustic. The part is first to be covered with a piece of adhesive plaster, which has a portion cut out exactly of the same figure and size as the opening intended to be made in the abscess. The end of the caustic is then to be dipped in water, and to be rubbed on the part till the skin becomes brown. The surface Is now to be immediately washed with some wet tow, the plaster is to be removed, and an emollient poultice applied. In almost all cases it is better to use the lan- cet, double-edged bistoury, or sharp-pointed nar- row knife. Either of these instruments opens the abscess at once, and with less pain than results from caustic ; it occasions no loss of substance, consequently a smaller cicatrix ; and, by using it, the opening may be made in the most advan- tageous direction, and of the exact size required. QuAi,iTiES OP Pus. [It is most difficult to condense into moderate compass the history of the progress made in the knowledge of the properties of pus during the last thirty years. We will attempt it under the follow- ing heads :— (cf) Physical Qualities.~Orm naked-eye charac- ters we need say little more. It is a homogeneous creamy liquid, of yellowish-white colour, easily miscible with water, but forming a sediment at the bottom of the vessel if allowed to rest. Its specific gravity is from 1030 to 1033. Examined under the microscope, it shows globules floating in a clear liquid. Taking the words of one of the earliest and ablest microscopic observers, these are peifectly globular in form, and vary in size from tioth to ,^5th of a millimeter (or from abdut asB^'h to s^o'h ot an inch) in diameter. Their suilace is finely granular. They have a regular well-defined ed^e, and roll freely in the iiquur puns upon each other. On the addition of water they become much increased in size, tlieir finely granular surface disappears, and thev become more transparent. Weak acetic acid partially, and the strong acid completely, dissolves the cell-wall and bungs into view the nucleus, which generally assumes the appearance of two or three granules close together, each with a central shaded spot They are generally about ^^th of a millimeter in diameter. Occiisionally the nucleus may be thus seen to be composed of four or even five granules {Hughes Bemtttt on Cancerous Growths, &c Ju/m' ii'Ai), p. 1.56.) ' ' '■ On this reaction the peneral diagnosis of pus is f.iunded; a creamy liquid containing abundant cIq. liules, which on the addition of acetic acid bcc(Tme tninspnrent, and show a two- to five-partite nucleus When urine or other liquid mixed with ims is exposed to heat, after the visible parts have subsided it becomes opaque Ij'om the coaKulation of the serum.