174 LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF out experience ia apt to be timid, or to make pressure in a false direction. In fact, witli the old style or probe, which was always straight, it was often impossible to iind the lower orifice of the sac, and the rude force exerted was apt to make the end of the style scrape the surface of the bone and detach the membrane from it. When the probe is intro- duced in ray method, from the canal, it enters the sac behind the tendo oculi, and is in a better position for finding, as it were, the orifice of the nasal duct. But to make this proceedmg as easy as possible, I have my larger probes (Nos. 5 and 6, which are the only ones used for this purpose) slightly curved at each end in two diiferent direc- tions, within the terminal inch or inch and a half, while the central part (or that held by the finger and thumb) is straight, and they are cylindrical in their whole length. The eflFect of this is, that when the probe is inserted into the sac, and brought into a vertical position, a slight rotation of it on its long axis makes the lower point, which is in search of the orifice of the duct, describe a small circle; and by slightly varying the inclmation of the probe, and making gentle pressure at the same time, with slight rotation, the point never fails to enter the duct. The right and left probes have opposite curves, to suit the inclination of the duct The probe is known to have entered the nostril by the depth to which it has passed, compared with the external position of the nostril, and also by its coming in contact with the floor of the nose. It is allowed to remain there for a few minutes, or is immediately withdrawn according to circum stances. . . In an ordinary case of chronic inflammation ot the sac, I consider the cure well begun, and often half accomplished, as soon as a full-sized probe has thus passed into the nose through the whole course of the natural channels. To repeat the probing is a very simple process, the enlarged punctum being always ready to admit it, and the proceeding being usually more easy each time it is practised. I re- peat the probing every day, every other day, every three or four days, or every week, according to the progress of the case, and accidental circumstances. It usually becomes at once easy for the patient to press mucus or pus from the sac, as it is secreted, both by the canaliculus and nasal duct; he is en- joined to do this very frequently, and hot fomen^^ tations are used if required. It is common to find in a few days, that no more pus is formed, and in a few weeks that mucus ceases to accumulate. In many cases the relief to the epiphora is immediate and the patients are made at once much more com fortable, losing all that distress that has been occa sioned by the distension of the cavity of the sac, and the congestion of its lining membrane. _ Rather more than a year ago, I contrived a mode of inserting a style by the canaliculus and leaving it for a certain time in the passages, in order to open them on the principle of the old style. The style was made to taper rather sud- denly at one end, and it was bent at about a right angle, so that the thick part should be placed ve - tictli; in the sac and nasal duct, and the t un pa t horizontally in the canal. The length of the thick part was adapted in each case by the surgeon, so as to extend from the point at which the canal enters the sac downwards as far as the floor ot the nostril, on which it rested, being thereby prevented from falling too low and burving itself out ot sight The proper length was ascertained previously by measurement by a probe. The horizontal part was in like manner adapted to reach to a point of the canal midw.iy between the caruncle and the punctum, and a bend was given to it, making it lie exactly within the canal, concealed from view in the channel formed by the slitting up of that passage. The material was silver, and the ends, after being cut to the requisite length, were care- fully rounded, and the thin one tipped with sealing-wax. These bent styles, when suitably adjusted, I found could be generally worn with very little in- convenience for a few days, and admitted of being readily removed and re-inserted, and I still employ them when the stricture is dense and obstinate, or when a rapid opening of it is required. But they sometimes occasion trouble and become a source of irritation, and they may even produce ulceration of a portion of the canal, if badly fitted or if left in too long—as, for example, when the patient has absented himself during the treatment. I therefore, prefer to treat the obstructions in almost all cases by the intermittent use of the probe, as already described, and especially as the results of that method are so satisfactory. I do not recommend the bent styles for general adoption. In speaking of the rapid relief or ease of cases thus treated, I must not omit to say, that of course I do not neglect such general and local means as are familiar to all, and which were at first enumerated. They are useful as aids, but without the sur- gical interference would be unavailing. Nor do I wish to have it thought that all cases get well at the same rapid rate, or that relapses never occur. Unfortunately these cases of obstructed ducts gene- rally occur in subjects more or less debilitated, scrofulous, or otherwise unhealthj-, and there may be complications of disease of neighbouring parts, or of the Schneideiian membrane. But all these inconveniences belong to the old method even more than to mine, the advantage of which is, as I con- ceive, that it effects the opening of the passages in the most simple way conceivable, and with the least possible interference with the natural struc- tures. It therefore seems preferable, not merely in itself] but also inasmuch as it is able to be employed in the required degree and extent, and in that only, at a period of the disease however earl)-, and under all contingencies of relapse; and therefore, if generally adopted, it may bo expected to alleviate the severity and diminish the number of these distressing "affections, which have been hitherto hardly less troublesome to the surgeon than to the patient. I must also state that there are cases of an ag- gravated nature, which have passed beyond the stages at which the above simple treatment is available—" where abscess has formed, where the sac has enormously dilated and thickened, where bono is diseased, where styles have been previously worn, and fistulous orifices exist. My hope is, that such cases will gradually now become less frequent." , , , . " To facilitate the slitting up of the pimctnm, a minute director mav be substituted with advant.nge for No. 1 probe. It has been made by Mr. ^^ eiss at the suggestion of Mr. Critchett, and consists of steel coated with gold by the electrotype process. It is sufficiently thick in the stem to give it firm- ness, and one end is reduced to a very fine size,