436 PAHACENTESIS flainmation in so extensive a sm-face as the cyst of a large ovarian dropsj^ and the events of Le Dran's cases, are considerations against this practice. Attempts have been made to cure ovarian drop- sies b}-^ injections, like hydroceles. I formerly saw two cases in which port wine and water were in- jected by the late Mr. Ramsden, of St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital ; one patient died very soon after- wards of inflammation, and the other perished more lingeringly from the same cause. Setons have also been tried without success. Leaving in the canula, or bougie, after paracentesis, has been frequently tried. Mr. Key has notes of three cases : the re- sults were not favourable. (See Seymour on Dis. of the Ovary, p. 103.) _ ,u j In the American Recorder a case is pubhsbed in which a cure was effected by the excision of the sac. Dr. N. Smith also performed such an operation with success ; after exposing the tumor by an incision, and discharging seven pints of a dark ropy fluid, with a trocar, he extracted the whole cyst, and the patient recovered. (See Edinh. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. Ixxiii.) The sac bj-ought out with it a considerable portion of ad- herent omentum, which required to be separated v/ith the knife, and two bleeding vessels were tied. The omentum was then reduced, and the adhesions •of the sac to one point of the parietes of the abdo- men also separated partly with the scalpel, and partly with the finger. These few particulars prove that though the operation may be practicable, and even end well, it is liable to great difficulties in its execution, and dangerous and fatal consequences in its result. In fact, one surgeon, mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, who began an operation of this kind, was prevented by the extent of the adhesions from completing it. Whenever the attempt is made, it ought to be while the cyst is of moderate size. An ins°tance in which the operation was attempted, while the disease did not exist, has been fairly and candidly laid before the public by Mr. Lizars, with other interesting observations and cases in favour of the practice of extirpating diseased ovaries. (Edinh. Med. Surg. Journ. No. Ixxxi.) Some other cases, in which the object was truly and successfully accomplished, have also been pub- lished by the same practitioner. {On Esetractionor Diseased Ovaria, fol. Edinb. 1825.) Dr David L. Rocrers, of New York, on September 14, 1829, removed a large ovarian cyst and solid ■tumor. The following particulars are taken from Dr. Reese's American edition of this Dictionary :— "The abdomen began to swell ; first, on the tcjt, and then extending to the right ; her stomach be- came affected, and although unmarried, her tnends accused her of being pregnant. In consequence ot this impression the disease was allowed to proceed without any medical advice, until time had satis- fied her friends to the contrary, when a physician was called, who pronounced the disease a dropsy, ajid recommended her to be tapped. A large quantity of water was drawn off, but in two months it had reaccumulated, and the operation was re- peated five times previous to my seeing hei^ It is computed that within the two years eighteen gallons of fluid were drawn off. " I observed (says Dr. Rogers) in this case what I have remarked in several others, that the fluid discharged differed from the water in common ascites. It is much more mucilaginous ; of the consistence of honey ; of a milky colour, and differs from any other secretion that I am acquainted with. After deliberately examining the tumor, and as far as possible ascertaining its character and con- nections, I suggested to her the possibility of its being cured by an operation, at the same time stating the great risk of life attending the perform- ance, and the slight chance of her recovery. I likewise requested Professor Mott, who was con- sulted in this case, to make a similar statement. Her good constitution and general health all urged the obligation of making an attempt to save her. After the first suggestion, nothing could alter her determination to forego the chance of relief whicli even so desperate an operation might afford, and, as she expressed it, ' I would rather die than live in my present situation.' " On September 14 she was laid on a table of convenient height, and with a large scalpel I commenced an incision a little below the ensiform cartilage, carrying it parallel with the linea alba, and terminating at the symphysis pubis. The in- teguments being divided, the dissection was con- tinued through the tendon of the linea alba to the peritoneum. This was at first supposed to be much thickened ; but by a cautious dissection through a membranous texture to the depth of a quarter of an inch, the water gushed out with con- siderable force. With a probe-pointed bistoury the opening was enlarged to the full extent of the external incision, and to our surprise we found that a sac was opened which appeared to fill the whole circumference of the abdomen, and at first its attachment appeared commensurate with its size. It lay in connection with the liver, stomach, spleen, and bladder. By pulling up the sac it was found that the adhesions were much less than at first ex- pected. It was determined, therefore, to dissect them from the peritoneum and omentum: some of the adhesions were so slight as to be separated by the finger, others by the handle of the scalpel, but the greater part required to be separated by a tedious dissection, and in^some parts the adhesions were so close that portions of the peritoneal mem- brane were removed. These adhesions extended for three or four inches around the umbilicus. After completing tills part of the dissection, the tumor was drawn out and supported by an as- sistant, and the dissection continued : separating it from the ovarian ligament, which required much care, from the large and numerous vessels going to it from this source ; the largest was at least the si2e of a goose-quill. After occupying two hours in the operation, this huge mass of disease was safely removed, and laid on the table. The liga- tures were ail cut close to the knot, and left to absorption. The wound was closed by sutures, dressed with adhesive straps, lint, a compress and a bandage applied firmly to the abdomen. I place some confidence in the close application of a band- aee, as it brings the divided surfaces in contact for the purpose of adhesion, and likewise as an im- portant auxiliary in preventing inflammation. She was then removed to bed ; her pulse at this time was feeble, but regular. In the course o e evening considerable reaction came on, with some 'nVuh^ut^rsuing the detail ^^Hl^T.^ the case, it will be only "^^essary to add t^^^^^^^^^ patient irogressed without nnJ'^" ,'1 "\S and in six weeks from the period of the opeiation