These means are to be persisted in for a greater or less time, according to the circumstances, and till the urine begins to be natural; thej- may then be gradually left off, or varied, as occasion may require ; and, under this plan, it will be found that, in the niajoiity of cases, not only ike umietvi/l assume its natural slate, but most or all the distress- tm, symptoms of calculus in the bladder tvill be very muck diminish d, and, in many instances, disappear. It is obvious, also, that while the urine is in its natural state, the calculus cannot increase in size. "Alter the diathesis is once foirly broken by these means, it may in general be easily pre- vented from recurring, by attention to the diet and other circumstances, formerly mentioned as in- ducing this diathesis, and bv the occasional use of medicines ; and the patienf will scarcely know that he has a calculus in the bladder ; at least, from the pain that it gives bim. I state this with confidence ; but at the same time, I wish to be understood to mean, that the freedom from pain, &c. depend, in no inconsiderable degree, upon the' size of the calculus, its smoothness, upon the ex- ercise a patient is obliged to take, &c., all of which arc presumed to be favourable ; for it must be sufficiently obvious that a foreign substance in the bladder cannot be prevented from acting mecliani- cally, and from occasionally producing bloody urine or a temporary stoppage of the discharge of that secretion from the bladder, and similar symptoms, if the patient is obliged to take severe exercise." {Proui on Gravel, Sfc, pp. 202—204.) At the beginning of the eighteenth centurj-, lime and the alkalies were known to be frequently productive of relief in cases of stone ; and in par- ticular, the nostrum of a Mrs. Steevens, the active ingredients of which were calcined egg-shells and soap, acquired such celebrity for the cures which It effected, that much anxiety was expressed that her formula shmild be made public. The conse qnence was, that in the year ] 739 parliament appointed a committee of twenty-two respectable men to investigate the merits of the remedy in question; and, on their very favourable report tlie secret was purchased for the sum of 5,000^ ihese proceedings naturally interested our neieh- bours, and in the years 1740 and 1741 Morand communicated to the Academy of Sciences two memoirs in which are reported numerous cases, where the new remedy was tried, and mostly with success ; the greater number of the patients bein^ described as either benefited or actually cured. ° In many instances, stones, which had been' un- questionably felt, were no longer to be discovered ; and, as the same persons were examined by sur- geons of eminence, both before and after the ex- hibition of the medicines, it is no wonder that the conclusion was drawn that the stones had been really dissolved. JVom the cessation of this suc- cess, however, and from its now being known that stones occasionally become lodged in a kind of cyst, on the outside of the general cavity of the bladder, so as to cause no longer any material suffering, surgeons of the present day are inclined to suspect that this must have happened in some of Mrs. Steevc ns's cases. This was certainly what happened to one of the patients, as Dr. W. Hunter informs us. It is evident that a stone so situated Would not in general produce a great deal of irri- tation, nor admit of being felt with asoimd. (See •LilTIIOTO.MV.) I URINARY CALCULI. 853 That, in the lithjc acid diathesis, the carbonates of soda and potassa, taken in large doses, have the effect of passing into the urine, and saturating the redundant lithic acid, in the unhealthy state of that fluid, IS a fact decidedly proved. If there were any doubt yet remaining upon this point, it would be immediately removed by the perusal of the case of the celebrated Mascagni, as detailed by himself. (See Mem. deila Soc. Hal. 1804.) This eminent anatomist being much afflicted with gravel, derived benefit from drinking the «9«a aka- hna mephitica, or Seltzer water ; but, conceiving that more good might result from a trial of car- bonate of potash, he took at first half a drachm of this substance in the morning, and as much in the evening, dissolved m ten ounces of wat-r The se cond day the dose was augmented to two'drachms, and on the third to three, which quantity, dissolved m twenty ounces of water, was continued for ten aays. " Before taking the carbonate of potash Unys Mascagni), my urine was very acid, and imme- diately reddened litmus paper: as soon as the medicine was begun, 1 made the same experiment with the urine then voided, and found the intensity ot the colour of the paper less. The second day, the paper was very little altered; and, on the third, the urine did not redden at all. The acid in my urine, therefore, was sitnrated, and, at the same time, the pain in my loins diminished, and no " more gravel was voided with mv urine After wards the pain ceased entirely, the urine became clearer, and I perceived that it contained an ex- cess of potash." Being attacked again at a sub- sequent period with the gravel, Mascagni adopted the same treatment, and experienced equal benefit from It. In the lithic acid diathesis, the liquor potassa has sometimes been thought to have more efficacy than the carbonate ; but it does not generally agree so well with the stomach. J s ° Sir E. Home and Mr. Hatchet first suggested the utility of giving magnesia in cases of stone • and tlie proposal was communicated to the public by 1 rofessor Brande. {Phil. Trans. \%\^.) As Dr Marcet observes, magnesia is often found advan- tageous in long-protracted cases, in which the con- stant use of the carbonated or caustic alkalies would injure the stomach. But he properly re- marks that if magnesia is sometimes beneficial, it bas of late years often done harm. For. as thi, earth is the base of one of the most 'common species of calculi-v,z. that containing the phos- phate of ammonia and magnesia—there is nearl v an even chance, when magnesia is prescribed, with- out any previous knowledge of the nature of the calculus, that it will prove injurious. Magnesia! also, when long and profusely administered, some- times forms large masses in the intestinal canal causing serious distress, and even fatal consel qiicnces, Sir Benjamin Brodie has known several in stances in which a great deal of distress was ex- perienced from the lodgment of such a concre- tion in the rectum ; and he refers to a case in which Mr. Wilson examined the body of a p-i tient ,n whom many pounds of magnesia were found collected in the colon, above a contracted part of the rectum. (a« the Urinary Organs, p. ilA, ed. 2.) I he same distinguished sur«eon likewise enjoins great care in adjusting the doses of alkaline remedies to the peculiar circumstances