the belly, and covered with a broad linen or flannel roller applied with due tightness round the body. Dr. Monro invented a particular kind of belt Cor the purpose. Previously to tapping, some surgeons surround the abdomen with a broad band of flannel, the ends of which are split. The middle, which is made to fit better to the con- vexity, above and below, by triangular pieces being cut out, and the edges joined, is placed over the forepart of the abdomen, and the ends are crossed behind, and intrusted to assistants. The umbilicus is felt for, and openings cut in the ban- dage a little below it. {Liston on Practical Sur- gery, p. 426.) The instrument used for tapping the abdomen is called a trocar. (See Trocak.) Of this there are several varieties ; but the generality of expe- rienced surgeons give a decided preference to the common trocar. Most of the modern alterations ■which have been made in the construction of trocars have only been deteriorations. There are no grounds for the ordinary objection that the com- mon trocar cannot be introduced without consider- able force. If the part into which it is about to be passed be made tense, very little force will be necessary. Richter condemns the trocar with a double-edged point as a bad instrument. The pro- posal of Mr. Cline, to make a puncture with a lancet first, and then to introduce into it a blmit- pointed trocar, is superfluous. Nay, these inno- vations are declared to be worse than useless. A cutting instrument is liable to injure blood- vessels, and bring on haemorrhage ; and the wound does not heal so readily as that made with an ordinary trocar. That sharp-edged in- struments are attended with the inconvenience of being apt to wound enlarged veins, and produce an unpleasant degree of haemorrhage, is a truth of which I have myself met with a- convincing ex- ample. A female, who had a strong aversion to being tapped with a trocar, prevailed upon me to make the opening with a lancet. The puncture was made in the linea alba, about three inches below the navel. A stream of dark-coloured venous blood continued to nm from the wound the whole time the water was flowing out of the canula, and did not cease until a compress was applied. The quantity of blood lost could not be less than a pint, or a pint and a half. In many cases this loss of blood would prove fatal to drop- sical patients, and is what one would always feel anxious to avoid. It is only in doubtful cases of encysted dropsy (see Liston, Op. cit. p. 427), or when the front of the abdomen is covered with a very thick stratum of fat, that I would make a preliminary incision. A man was under me in University College Hospital with ascites, and I introduced a trocar nearly up to the rim of its canula without [reaching the fluid. Having pro- cured a longer trocar, I repeated the puncture on the following day, and with this instrument was only just able to get about a quarter of an inch of tlie canula within the peritoneum, bo great was the quantity of fat in front of the abdomen. In another such case I would make a previous inci- sion. The patient, directly before the operntion should empty the bladder. ' The position commonly selected for the ope- ration is that in which the patient sits in an arm-chair. However, weakness and other circum- ■ stances frequently make it necessary to operate on VOL. II. PARACENTESIS. 433 the patient as he lies on his side sufliciently near the edge of the bed ; and this posture has one decided advantage, viz. that it tends to prevent the alarming syncope which the sudden removal of the pressure of the fluid from the diaphragm and pa- abdominal viscera often brings on, in' such a tient, in the erect position. [The surgeon should remember that the small intestines, being movable and containing air, will float on the surface of the ascitic fluid, and that it would consequently be unsafe to tap a patient in the linea alba while in the supine position. Even when the patient is lying on his side, before introducing the trocar the operator should by per- cussion assure himself of the position of the small intestines. In the sitting posture there can be no danger of wounding them, as they will be floating far above the umbilicus.] Formerly, the place in which surgeons used to puncture the abdomen, in cases of ascites, was the centre of a line drawn from the navel to the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium, and on the left side, which was preferred, in consequence of the liver not being there. The place for the puncture was usually marked with ink, and was supposed to be always situated just over a part of the linea semilunaris, where there are no fleshy fibres, nor any large blood-vessel, exposed to in- jury. This calculation, however, was made with- out considering that, in dropsy, the parietes of the abdomen do not yield equally in every situation. On the contrary, it is known that the front is always more distended than the lateral parts, and that the linea alba and recti muscles, in particular, are sometimes verymuch widened. In consequence of these alterations attending the disease, no de- pendence can be put on any measurement made with the view of ascertaining the precise situation of the linea semilunaris. The surgeon who trusts to his being able to introduce the trocar exactly iii this place from any calculation of the above kind, will frequently wound a great thickness of muscle, mstead of a part where the abdominal parietes are thinnest. But a still stronger objection is to be urged against the practice of attempting to tap in the linea semilunaris. Men well acquainted with anatomy have frequently been deceived in their reckoning, and, instead of hitting the intended line with their trocars, they have introduced these in- struments through the rectus muscle, and wounded the epigastric artery. Patients have died from this error, with large extravasations of blood in the cavity of the peritoneum. In a dropsical person who has been tapped, it is to be observed also that an eft'usion of blood in the abdomen will of course more readily take phice, in consequence of the parts not being in the same close, compact state in which they are in the healthy condition. Henceforth, therefore, let every prudent prac- titioner abandon the plan of tapping in the linea semilunaris in cases of ascites ; and he may the more easily make up his mind to do so, as there is another place where the operation may be per- formed with the utmost facility and safety. The linea alba is now preferred ; because here no muscular fibres need be wounded, the place can be hit with certainty, and no large blood-vessel can be injured. About the middle point, between the navel and pubes, is as good a situation for making the puncture as can possibly be chosen. The surgeon should introduce the trocar in a F F