JOINTS, EXCISION OF. 157 ankle with success, and so has Mr. Pirrie of Aber- deen ; in the opinion of the latter, the operation has never met with the favour that it deserves. No other English surgeon has resorted to it in tlie ankle tliat we are aware of. Mr. Syme has not performed resection of the ankle, but he con- siders it as likely to be a more favourable proceed- ing than in the wrist, because but 3 bones only enter its formation. Mr. Harwell has gathered the particulars of 30 cases of this operation, with a mortality of 5, assuredly a very small percentage. The results on the whole have been pretty satisfactory ; in the majority of cases, there was free motion, very little shortening, and but the barest approach to lameness. (See Treatise on Disease of Joints, p. 463.) One of Mr. Hancock's cases, a man of 32, walked several miles a day at a rapid pace, 10 months after the operation. Tile operation as performed by Mr. Hancock is much on the plan pursued by Moreau. The foot is laid on its inner side, and an incision is made over the lower three inches of the posterior edge of the fibula. On reaching the malleolus, it forms an angle and runs forward and downward to within half an inch of the base of the outer meta- tarsal bone. The angular flap is now reflected forwards, which permits of the fibula being cleared and cut off' with forceps, leaving the peroneus longus and brevis tendon uncut. The foot is now turned over, and a similar incision is made as on the outer side, terminating on the foot over the projection of the inner cuneiform bone. The flap is turned back, and the sheaths of the flexor digitorum and posterior tibial tendons divided, keeping the knife close to the bone to avoid the artery and nerve. The internal lateral liga- ment is next divided close to the bone ; the foot is twisted outwards, and the astragalus and tibia will be seen at the inner wound ; a narrow bladed saw, put in between the tendons into the inner wound, projects through the outer, and the lower end of the tibia, and the top of the astragalus are sawn off in a proper direction. The wound is closed with sutiures, except that part opposite the breach of osseo\is matter, and the leg and foot placed on a splint with a footboard, and cold water applied. Should there be any disease of the articular surfaces of the os calcis or scaphoid, it must be gouged away. (See Hancock and Bar- welt, op. cit.) Mr. Pirrie thinks the operation is best performed by making a semilunar incision on the outer side, raising up the flap, cutting ofi^ the under extremity of the fibula, opening the joint, bending the foot inwards, and cutting the • bones with pliers. (Prin. and Prac. of Surgery, ed. 2, p. 736.)] [Eoccisiwt of the Tarsal Bones.—Of the various bones which compose the tarsus, the os calcis is more frequently diseased than any of the others, and the reason of this is apparent from its large size, exposed situation, and spongy structure. It, as well as the other bones, is atfected with caries and necrosis. The entire excision of this bone is seldom necessary, unless the disease has extended ,to the superior or anterior portions of the bone, when it is most liable to involve the entire tarsus! It has been excised twice by Mr. Hancock, hut was hrst done in this country by Mr. T. M. Orecnliow. Mr. Page of Carlisle, Mr. Erichsen, Mr. Gay! and many other surgeons in this country and in America have resorted to it with success. If the diseased part can be removed with a gouge, even with the result of leaving a mere shell, it is better in the majority of instances to do that, for the cavity in the bone becomes filled up with dense fibrous tissue. It is recommended to avoid its complete extirpation whenever practicable, on ac- count of the large size of the bone, its importance as a basis of support to the body, and as affording a point of attachment to the strong muscles of the calf. Various methods are adopted in removal of this bone, but the incisions will frequently depend upon the seat of the disease. The operation is usually done by making a heel flap as in disarticu- lation of the ankle joint, and carrying it forward into the sole of the foot, by which another flap is turned up, and the calcaneo-cuboid articulation exposed and opened. The os calcis is then re- moved by separating it from .the astragalus with the knife. To obviate the wounding and subsequent cica- trices in the sole and heel, Mr. Erichsen readily disarticulates this bone by making a horse-shoe incision, when the patient is lying on his face, carried from a little in front of the calcaneo-cuboid articulation around the heel, along the sides of the foot, to a corresponding point on the opposite side. " The elliptic flap thus formed is dissected up, the knife being carried close to the bone, and the whole under surface of the os calcis thus exposed. A perpendicular incision about two inches in length is then made behind the heel, through the tendo-Achillis, in the mid line and into the hori- zontal one. The tendon is then detached from its insertion, and the two lateral flaps dissected up, the knife being kept close to the bones, from which the soft parts are well cleared." The articulation is now opened above, the interosseous ligaments divided, and the bone detached. (See Encltsen, Science and Art of Suroerv, ed. 3. p. 717.) Those examples of excision of the os calcis which have been recorded, Mr. Fergusson speaks of, as strongly illustrative of the spirit of conservatism, which happily seems to pervade British surgery in the present day. " Mr. Thomas Wakley," Mr. Fergusson observes, "has even gone a step further in this most praise- worthy direction. He has removed both astragalus and OS calcis at the same time, with the laudable purpose of saving the rest of the foot, and has accomplished the object in the most satisfactory manner. The operation which he performed is detailed in the Lancet for July 1, 1848. He re- moved the 03 calcis first, with a portion of the in- tegument covering it, and then the astragalus with the malleoli, the parts being removed through a gap made in the back of the foot by Lateral and posterior incisions. The cure seems to have gone on very satisfactorily, and not long ago the person who had undergone this operation was submitted to the notice of the London Medical Society, able to move about on tlie lame foot with wonderful facility. I have more recently learned from Mr. Wakley that the result was in every way as satis- factory as could be desired." (See FeryHsso7i''s Practical Suryerp, ed. 4. 18.57, p. 447.) At the time of the operation, December 1047 the man was twenty-three years of nge, and ]ind