NECROSI z 2 [According to more recent observers, the first stop towards the reproduction of bone consists in au increased vascularity of the periosteum, which becomes swollen and intimately adherent to the surrounding tissues, then thiclcened, soft, and pulpy; a copious exudation of yellowish viscid fluid takes place from this membrane, between it and the sur- lace of the bone, so as to separate them; in this fluid are seen small bloody streaks or specks, and when placed under the microscope, nuclei, granular matter and oil vesicles are found. This blastema gradu- ally condenses, becomes of a gelatinous consistence then hrm and cartilaginous; and in this sta-^e it presents, on examination, nucleated cells and nSclei in large quantity, connected by an intercellular material, which is somewhat fibrillated. The process of ossification commences very earlv Wagner has seen bone formed in the medullarv cana as early as the sixth day. It takes place in the cartilagmous substance,above mentioned, by the de- position of osseous particles in several places at once rhese increase in size and number, and assume the form of needles, which spread out over the mass,and by their coalescence.enclose large spaces—thus caus- ing the open porous surface which is a characteristic of new bone. This spongy condition disappears as ossification proceeds, and, in time, the new bone becomes equally dense with the old; a section ot it under the microscope presents precisely the same arrangement as a piece of original bone.f The external surface of the new bone, which during the period of its formation, was iA-egular and studded with several excrescences of various size3,_and pierced with apertures of difl^-erent di mensions becomes in the course of time smooth and regular, especially after the expulsion of the sequestrum. ^ The sides or walls of the new bone, which at [i'oja, p. 21); and its interior becomes hollowed out, so as to form a more or less perfect medul- rl^ "'''^^ necrosed shaft remains enclosed m the sheath formed by the new JZ' R V T'^r ""^ "-an the ori- ginal. But, should one of the ends of the dead shaft protrude from the cavity, while, by the side of the attected bone, there is not another one capable of resisting the action of the muscles, the new bone will be shortened, and undergoes some change in Its shape and direction. Indeed, says Weidmann, tue new bone in its early state, from want of consistence, must yield to the efforts of the muscles. [Muscular action, aided by the weight of the tiocly when the necrosis is in the lower extremity will sometimes occasion considerable shortening and deformity of the limb, in consequence of the yielding of the newly formed osseous tissue. Very serious results have ensued from this cause, such as fracture; or a sudden movement of the limb has been known to force the point of a sequestrum into a neighbouring joint, or to lacerate a larire blood vessel. {Stanley, op. cii. p. J11. Poland 0,1 Injured Arteries. Gmf^ Hospital Reports aeries iii. vol. v. p. S.'Ji.)] / The periosteum, which swells as soon as the separation of the old bone commences, shrinks' and IS not .it all thickened, when the exfoliation is hnished. I roja, having destroyed the medullarv structure of n long bone, found the periosteum swelled at the end of 3G hours; but he observed 1 , 339 that the whole of such bwoH;.,~ t the 25th day. (P 43, 67!) ^ disappeared before The periosteum, which' time • to the new bone, a it dS to the ol7""'' sels are increased in diameter, aUJon;"'a 1 quantity of blood; they dive imo la^ge a fertuS he regenerated bone, ramify evei^wl re in Us substance, and nourish it. [When the periosteum is destroyed by iniurv or by the violence of the inflammatory proc sTail cording to Stanley (p. 110,) the clllular tissue around the bone becomes dense and thickened - it adheres to the newly formed osseous structure, forms Its investing membrane, fulfilling all the functions of the periosteum. Wagner howevei {op. c^. p. 171) states that this nlv coveS ormed by the plastic exudation, which take pLe 0 egenerate bone. According to him, abou? the sixth day a change, perceptif^Ie to the eye has occurred ,n this material. It then presents' two d fferent substances ; that nearest to%he bone is of a bluish white colour, resembles cartilage in its density, and is converted into bone ; the more superficia layers are yellowish or reddish in colour and consisting «of the elements of immature oe ! lular tissue," are gradually perfected into true areolar tissue, which blends with and thickens the periosteuni, or, when that membrane is destroyed forms a fibrous covering to the new bone ] ' How admirable is the process, by which the muscles, detached from a bone affecfed with ne! ros,s, have other insertions given to them, and are Sorp.T7)^^^^ [When the periosteum is preserved, the muscles and tendons retain their connexion vvithh and are inserted into the new bone through its medium mentlo theTT'r^? be destroyed', thei^^ ment tothe skeleton is effected by means of th^ lymph effused during the inflammat? proems which has taken place ;,this, infiltratin/the sur rounding parts causes their adhesion to e^ach oth r" as well as to the thickened layer of cellular tissue which forms the immediate covering of tj e bo,ie' Rokitausky states, on the authority of Meckel that the muscles remain connected with the dead bone for some time, reaching it through the open ings left in the new; but that they gradual l become detached from it, and impla^tef T the newly formed bone. The manner, however in which this IS accomplished, is not described ] ' a true membrane, wliich sends a great n.imL. f vessels into the substance of the' boL? WLn his membrane is torn off, the surface, wh cl vered, ,s found somewhat smooth, the edge 0 bony layers and projectious of the fibres^being 1)1 unt and rounded. "v-mg . [The cavities which are gradually develoned ... the mtcnor of a new bone, arc also Inied by tl is membrane, and, in course of time, marrow is formed within them. ' Necrosis may attack the whole shaft of a bone but this IS not usually the case; it is much mS' common to find only a part of one attected • it m v also vary in intensity from the slightest loss'of sub-