14 INFLAMMATION. fearful pyeemia, alteration of the blood seems to be the essential condition. This, then, is fever symptomatic of infl.mma- tion. But in a second series of cases the fever is the starting-point. The blood, either by spon- taneous decomposition, or by infection with a poison, or defective purification, becomes deranged, and a local inflammation is set up in consequence. This is well exemplified in the common hospital erysipelas, whether attacking the scalp or a wounded part.. Here the first symptom is shivering and fever; the local hyperasmia and exudation fol- low, and this is the case in all idiopaiUc inflam- mations. , • 1 • 1, There is yet a third series of cases, in which fever (i. e. a diseased state of blood) is first pro- duced by a local inflammation, and then pro- duces fresh inflammations in other parts. No other mode of accounting for some of the phe nomena of what is called pya;mia exists, than the supposition that definite substances in solution find their way into the blood. " To this class, says Virchow, " belongs that metastatic pleurisy which developes itself without any metastatic abscesses in the lungs—that seemingly-rheumatic articular affection in which no distinct deposit is found in the joints—that dlfinse gangrenous in- flammation of the subcutaneous connective tissue, which cannot well be accounted for unless we sup- pose a more chemical mode of infection. Here we have, as may be seen in cases of variolous and cadaveric infection, to deal with a transference oi corrupted icliorous juices inio the hody ; and we must admit the existence of a dyscrasia {icliorous infection) in which this ichorous substance, which has made its way into the body, displays its effects in an acute form in the organs which have a special predilection for such matters." {Virchow, op. cit. p. 215.) , , , As this subject may be rendered obscure by the condensed form in which the writer is compelled to express himself, and as a correct understanding of the manner in which local and constitutiona symptoms depend on each other is of_ the most vital consequence to every one who desires to be a successful practitioner, let us recapitulate a little. Inflammation, in the true sense of the word, involves local symptoms and constitutional; the latter of which are designated by the terms /wfiJ'- islmess, or traumatic, or symptomatic, or ir^mma- tory fever, ov pyrexia. in some cases the local symptoms are the tirst, as in the case of injuries which inflame. And in these cases those blood-changes, which constitute feverishness, may be caused either by nervous irri- tation, or by the introduction into' the blood ot fluids vitiated by the injury and its consequences. - An example of this last-mentioned cause, at its climax, is to be found in pycemia. In other cases, a change in the blood and consti- tutional symptoms precede all local symptoms, as in all idiopathic inflammations. In others, again, a diseased state of Woo-^- P™" ducpd by one local injury, is the cause of fresh in- flammation elsewhere. . , , In any case fever seems to involve the follow-, ing poinfs-lst, the presence of some deleter o s matter in the blood; 2nd, a series of operations for getting rid of the unwholesome blood-matcnai, partly by increased oxydation, partly by climniation, either through the natural excretory glands, or through the medium of a local inflammation, which is ill reality an excretory organ extemporised The palpable phenomena of fever are these : -— 1st. Shivering, which is sometimes accompanied by a real diminution of heat, sometimes appears to be a subjective sensation only. Its real nature is quite unknown, but it evidently shows the moment when changes in the blood commence. Unknown though its nature be, there is no one symptom met with in the range of surgical and medical practice which is of deeper and more universal importance. Muscular tremors, with sen- sation of cold, which constitute shivering, evi- dently refer to the nervous system as the part immediately affected. They may be produced, apparentl}^ by some causes which operate directly on the nervous system, and by others which act through the blood". Of the first set we may men- tion the direct application of cold, depressing pas- sions, agitation of mind generally, and any actions affecting sensitive parts, as the dilatation of the OS uteri, and the introduction of bougies; and, above all, irritation of the stomach. Of the second set we may say that anything which suddenly alters the composition of the blood, whether from with- out or within, is liable to cause shivering. As we have already said, in article Auscess, it sho\ys the beginning of an inflammation; and it may, in the progress of the disease, show the time when some fresh blood alteration is taking place. l<or instance, a patient, three days after a severe bum was seized with shivering, which was the first symptom of scarlet-fever which followed.^ But the chief alteration which additional shivering shows in the process of an inflammation is the occurrence of suppuration, and the probable absorption into the blood of liquefied exudation from the seat ot disease. (See art. Abscess.) , , cc . " Rio-ors," says Hunter, " seem to be tbe etlect of any new action on the constitution, and not at the commencement of a disease only. They show plainly the commencement of some new action. (Lectures, in Palmer's Edition, vol. i. p. 3(9.) Of the precise nature of the change which causes shivering we know nothing. Yet that it is con- nected with some interruption to the production of animal heat is palpable from the very great cold- ness of surface, and the other pl'e"^^";,° ^.^.^ cold stage when severe, which .are ^'^ the symptoms caused by S^'f f from the body-blueness, and lividity, .and shrink- inir of bulk of the extremities, great oppression of the breathing, and intense congestive headache Vomiting, also, is a symptom often associated ^vith shivering, in diseases attended with especual blood taint; but not often at the commencement of ordinary inflammation. ri Of the finnl purpose of shivering, or of the share which it takes in producing the subsequent phe- nomena, we know nothing; and it would add nothing to our knowledge were we to imitate the older surgeons, who speak of nature, a armed at ■the invasion of a foe, and calling in all her forces, a into the citadel, to defend the vital parts. Metaphor has never been of much service to me- 2nd. Post horrorcm, pulsiis frequens, Vicc(xi\ng to the unsurpassable definition ot Cullen. The pulsations of the heart are often raised to 00 , I lono or even 140°. The character of the pulse as fci? ;t the wri.t, whether full or mall, hard or