98 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS, each portion of the canal is more particularly liable. The operations wliicli have been resorted to up to the present time are as follows: Gastrotomy, i.e. openint; the abdominal cavity with a view to relieve an internal strangulation, and witliout disturbing the integrity of the 'intestinal tube ; Gastro-enterotomy, i.e. opening the abdomnial cavity, followed by opening the intestinal tube, with a view to the formation of an artificial anus; Enterotomy, opening the intestine at some point external to the peritoneal or abdominal cavity, also with the intent to form an artificial amis. The first is resorted to in supposed lesions ot the small intestines the third, in obstructive di- sease of the larger bowel; the second, or gastro- enterotomy, under peculiar conditions of both divi- sions of the intestine. Gastrolomi/.—History tells us that Praxagoras, and in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries Pierre Franco and Paul Bardette, advocated this operation in cases of internal strangulation. We are not aware how frequently the operation has been performed, either in this or other countries, but up to the present day we believe not one successful case has occurred in Great Britain; some lew attended by success have been recorded both in Europe and America. Mr. Hutchinson informs us that, some time since, he requested to be informed, through the medium of the jVIedical Times, of a case or cases in which gastrotomy had been successfully performed in this country; but received no response. Unhappily, the sources of internal mechanical ob_ struction are so numerous, and the symptoms ot many so similar, that it is difficult, and indeed im- possible in most instances to determine either the nature or the seat of the lesion. A proximity to the truth, as regards the seat of obstruction, may be arrived at, should the lesion be situated either near to the pylorus (case by Bird and Hilton, Med. C/dr. Trans, vol. 30) or to the anus; but as the ileo-cffical valve is approached, the symptoms upon which we rely to form an opinion are often so con- tradictory, that an inference must be drawn with the greatest caution. Mr. Phillips, who has col- lected and analvsed 169 cases of intestinal obstruc- tion, and who also quotes various authors upon this subject, says {Med. Oiir. Trans, vol. 31, p. 16.): "For some time I had hoped that by ar- ranging the cases in small groups the symptoms mi"ht be made to assume a more characteristic form-but I found that distressing sickness, severe pain, and abdominal tension might be present or absent in any case, no matter what may have been the cause of obstruction ; that life might be ex- tended as long in a case where the intestine passed through an unnatural opening, as in a case ot gra- dual malignant contraction." Hevin says, (Mhiwire de fAeadbnie de Chirurg. tome ly. p. 211)- "The uncertainty as to the cause ot tliese affections, and the equivocal nature of the symptoms which are similar, from whatever cause ""^'"6'^ these are very varied, will always deter a p nde t man f,om having recourse to an incision geious,and which would be very often usd ss since the volvulus which it is proposed to i m dy is the least frequent cause o the I'-^o Pass on There is not, moreover, any indication " the precise locality, the positive seat, ot U e malady." Dr. Watson says {Pnne.ples and Prac- tice of Physic, vol. ii. p. 468): "This procedure con- templates no compromise between certain deatti ana complete recovery ... and if the peril were my own, and all other prospect of relief had failed me, I would submit myself to this forlorn hope of rescue." When called to decide upon or to dis- cuss the propriety of opening the belly to search for the seat of obstruction, all means to aid the diagnosis will of course be employed, and the sur- geon should determine, and be able to explain, why he arrived at the conclusion that tlie seat of strangulation would be found either here or there. His inference may possibly be wrong ; but we hold that some good reason should be assigned for attempting the relief of a disease, the nature and seat of which cannot with any degree of certainty be foretold, and from which recovery, even at the eleventh hour, is just within the limits of possibility, by the terrible alternative of an operation, which, in all human probability, will prove fatal. On the other hand, should the locality be sufficiently marked, and especially, should symptoms point to the right umbilico-iliac region, where observation and experience have shown that sources of strangu- lation are apt to arise either from congenital mal- formation of the lower part of the ileum, or from disease of that bowel ; and should age and tolera- ble health concur with the absence ol signs of local and general inflammation to warrant an operation, the surgeon will be justified in recommending gas- trotomy. At the same time, he will do wisely to explain fully both to the patient and to his friends the impending probabilities whether an operation be perlormed or not. It will rest with them either to accept or to refuse the apparently only chance of life Period for operation. — This is a most mo- mentous question. It is easy to recommend an operation, but to the last degree difficult to say when it should be performed! Few would be willing to advise such a procedure until all the resources of art have been exhausted, many of them, unwittingly, to the detriment of the sufterer ; while there may be greater danger from delaj-, until either the powers of the patient are exhausted beyond hope of recovery, or morbid changes have taken place in the parts implicated, rendering lile impossible, or fatal and general peritonitis basset in. Medio tuHssimus ibis. The practitioner must care- fully watch the pulse of his patient, because, since death begins at the heart in these cases the con- dition of the vascular system will best indicate the influence exercised by the disease upon the consti- tution The gradually increasing frequency and decreasing power of the pulse, the increasing anxiety of countenance, the persistence and aggra- vation of the symptoms, especially that of sterco- raceous vomiting, clearly indicate that the time tor operative interference, if admissible at a 1, Has arrived. The operation having been decided upon, the temperature of the room in which it is to be per- formed should be raised to 80" Fahr., in order that the contents of the abdomen exposed during the operation may not be injuriously attccted by cold. A ready mode of doing this and of render- ing the atmosphere humid also, consists m hanging damp towels before a large fire made in the room. Chloroform may or may "ot be adminis- tered according to circumstances; and the patient having been placed with his buttocks upon he edge of a table, with his legs depending^ and sup- ported each on a chair, the openUor takes up h s position between the patient's thighs, and evacu-