INFLAMMATION. [60] do little hurt and less good, fronl which tlie patient, day by day fiustaneously expecting relief, is at last deferred " so long that Nature and Time effect a cure which the physician claims the credit of. Side by side with the results of homoeopathy were promulgated the views of some physicians, who were sceptical as to the use of drugs, and treated patients " expectantly." It was Dr. G. W. Balfour who, in 1847, brought before the Medico- Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh the practice and doctrine of Skoda in the genera) hospital of Vienna. Instead of dealing with pneumonia as if large bleedings were less dangerous than tlie dis- ease, he put it into the category of maladies whose tendencies were to recovery, and believed that this was best promoted by abstinence from heroic treatment, and rest and regimen alone. The same with regard to the patients treated homoeopathi- cally, who took pretentious but inert medicines. This circumstance, combined with the fact that many English physicians, as Robert Williams {Elements of Medicine), had long treated fever with the mildest remedies, and Seymour treated rheumatic fever with guaiacum, brtd distrust as to the necessity of heroic measures. In 1843 Dr. 'J'odd published his Lectures on Gout and Rheuma- tism, in which he places rheumatic fever in the category of diseases with a definite duration, and therefore condemns laree bleedings, which he says cannot cut short rheumatism as we can arrest an attack of pneumonia or of pleurisy." This shows that Todd's conversion from bleeding to an opposite treatment was not complete in 1843. Fifthly, the cell doctrine directed attention to processes outside and beyond the blood-vessels. Anyone who in 1844 studied J. Hughes Bennett's ofte)i-quoted Treatise on Ivfiammution, would be quite prepared for such a modification of treatment as should regard development of an exudation, rather than the " action of vessels." Sixthly, practitioners in India, civil and mili- tary, were dissatisfied with the bleeding and calomel, which had been the routine treatment fur fever and dysentery, and found quinine and Dover's powder more congenial. The surgery of the Crimean war, as depicted by George Lawson, Williamson, Macleod, Matthew, and Lyons, presents a very different kind of treatment from that of the Peninsular war, de- scribed by Guthrie and Hennen. Not merely in inflammation, but to arrest ha;morrhage from womids of the lungs and brain, military surgeons used to bleed ; not so in the Crimea. Some measure of the change of opinion may be found in Todd's Clinical Lectures uii Acute Diseases (18G0), where he says, " I am not aware of any mode of treatment which can be said to cut short " pneu- monia and pleurisy. "Tiie plan by bleeding and tartar emetic does not do so certainly." Todd at this time taught that most spontaneous internal in- llammations are connected with the gouty, rheu- matic, or scrofulous diathesis, through winch some morbid matter is generated, wliich accumuhites and provokes inllannnation, especially if determined to some particular organ by cold, fatigue, or ni- jury. Such inflammations are to be cured by a natural process ; by the " elimination of the mor- bid element through the channels of augmented secretion" from skin, kidneys, and bowels. Meanwhile there is great waste going on ; the inilummatory exudations create a great drain on the blood, and if this drain be not compensated, the healthy structures will be robbed and impo^ verished. So that, instead of bleeding, we ought, he says, to support and soothe the patient, " and gain time until, by antidotal means or by elimination, we can get rid of the irritation, whatever that may be." From the influence of these causes, acting silently, without noticeable controversy, practi- tioners in the decade 1850-60 became conscious of the fact that tliey no longer used the lancet, or, if at all, with very much reserve. The practice of the Royal Infirmary at Edin- burgh underwent a total revolution between 1845- 55. During the years '45-'5U bleeding was ordered to a great extent. One patient with pneumonia was bled to 20 ounces on the 1st day, to 15 on the •2nd, cupped to 15 on the 4th, and had 18 leeches on the 5th. A patient with epilepsy was four times bled in 8 days. A fever patient was twice bled, to 12 and 18 ounces. In 1850 bleeding began to disappear ; and with it disappeared two other things—the great use of stimulants, and the habit which patients had of leaving the hospital "by their own desire" in the middle of the treatment. Leeches cost the Infirmary 144Z. in 1839, and 1/. Us. 6d. in 1870. What took place in London and Edinburgh took place also in Dublin, in America, and wher- ever English-speaking surgeons practised. Dr. Bel- cher describes the difference in treatment at the Cork Fever Hospital, where one-fourth of the pa- tients were bled in 1818, none from 1857—61. Then arose the question, why was bleeding aban- doned ? Were human beings different, or had dis- ease changed its t3'pe ; or, whilst disease remained the same, had surgeons a different type of treatment.' a. Tiiere is nothing impossible in the idea that men may change. Hunter thought (O/i Ivfl, chap. ii. s. i.) that some " climates were less pernicious now than formerly, arising from the mode of living being different." Professor Lay- cock believes that changes in the nutrition and occupation of our population, rendering bleeding less needful and less beneficial, have arisen from the increasing accumulation in large towns. Here the nervous system is cultivated to the neglect of the muscular and blood-mak- ing ; in-door occupations and defective ventila- tion lead to dyspepsia. Medical science pro- longs the lives of the delicate, and the Peninsular and Crimean wars and the Indian army drained off tile robust, leaving the delicate to propagate the species. The natives of hot climates, and vegetable feeders, do not bear bleeding, and the inhabitants of any climate possibly vary at different times. That common human feeling—the laudalio teiiqwris acii—that belief that we are degenerate and nn- eqiial to our fathers, so that, as Homer said, ten men now cannot lift the stone that Ajax lifted ; that peaches,as the Count in "Gil Bias" said,are smaller; that winters are warmer, summers wetter, prompts us to think that even our diseases are not such as they used to be, nor our people so well able to bear disease or remedy. Thus .John Armstrong {On 7'i/phiis, 3rd ed, 1819), speaking of Sydenham's [liacticc of depletion in erysipelas, says, that "probably in the time of Sydcniiam the constitu- tion of the metropolitan poor was more vigorous than now, their diet more nourishing, tiieir habits more temperate, so that, as a mass, they more nearly apiiroached to what coimtry people are at present."