of the bladder were divided from witliin oiU- wai-ds. The lithotome cache' is entitled to nuich attention, because it i3 still generally used in several parts of the Continent and sometimes in this country, especially in St. George's and the Westminster Hospitals. " In France " (says M. lloux), " if there is any mode of operating more common than others and preferred by the majo- rity of practitioners, it is that in which the in- strument named the lithotome cache' is erapIo3'ed." (See ParallUe de la Chirnrgie Anglaise c$-c. p. 318.) Frere Come does not ascribe the inven- tion of this instrument to himself, but acknow- ledges that it I'esenibles the knife for operating upon hernia, said to have been devised by a French surgeon of the name of Bienaise. It consists of a handle and the blade part. The latter is slightly curved, about as thick as a quill, furnished with a beak, and excavated so as to form a sheath for a knife of its own length. By means of a kind of lever the knife can be made to pass out of the sheath ; and the dis- tance to which the blade projects also admits of its being regulated with precision. For this pur- pose the handle is divided into six sides, num- bered 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, and 15, and which, accord- ing as they are more or less elevated, allow the lever to be depressed in different degrees, and the knifd to move out of its sheath in the same proportion. Thus the surgeon can at his option make an incision through the prostatic portion of the urethra and orifice of the bladder of six dif- ferent lengths. Sabatier observes that Frere Gome's method possesses all the advantages of the lateral opera- tion, besides being more easy than Cheselden's plan and most of the other modes subsequently proposed for cutting the prostate gland and orifice of the bladder with perfect smoothness, and to a sufficient extent to allow the calculus to be re- moved without laceration of the parts. {MCd. Operaioire, t. iii. p. 199.) Several objections have been urged against the use of the lithotome cach^. 1. Frere Come ni.idc his incision too high, so that an extravasation of urine in the scrotum followed some of his opera- tions ; but the above method of operating is free from any objection of this kind. 2. Some sur- gical writers insist on the danger of cutting the bladder too extensively with the lithotome, 3. The artcria pudica profunda and the rectum, which some authors conceive to be endangered, mnst always be in absolute safety, if the edge of the knife of the lithotome be turned in the direction above recommended. I think that for a surgeon who understands the right principles of lithotomy this is one of the best ways of performing the operation. When I was at Paris in Ifll.^ I saw Dr. Sonberbielle operate very skilfully with the lithotome cache. A stone of considerable size was extracted from a gentleman, wlio was, I should think, not less than seventy. No appre- hensions were entertained of ill-success, as I understood that this operator hardly over lost a patient. M. Roux when ho visited Kiigland seems not to iiave been informed that, at the Westminster Hospital, the lithotome cache had been commonly employed for many years past. It was some- times used at Guy's Hospital by Sir A. Cooper, TOMY. 239 and it . is a favourite instrument with my friend Mr. Keatd. Le Cat, a surgeon at Rouen, in Normandy, de- vised a mode of lithotomy which would be too absurd to be described wore it less renowned. He thought the neck of the bladder rniglit be dilated, like the wound, and his operation was deformed with all the cruelty of the Marian method, and every error attendant on the infant state of the latter operation. He first introduced a long wide staff, and then cut forward with a common scalpel through the skin and fat, till he could distinguish the bulb, the urethra, and the prostate gland. Secondly, with another knife, the urethrotome, having a groove on one side, he opened the urethra just before the prostate, and, fixing the urethrotome in the groove of the staff, and holding it steady, rose from the kneel- ing posture in which he performed the outward incision. Thirdly, holding the urethrotome in the left hand, he passed another knife, the cysto- tome, along the groove of the urethrotome ; and the beak of the cystotome being lodged in the groove of the urethrotome, it was pushed for- wards through the substance of the prostate gland into the bladder. Fourthl}-, drawing the cysto- tome a little backwards, he gave the staff to an assistant to be held stoadil}^ and, lifting a blunt gorget in the right hand, he placed tlie beak of it in the groove of the cystotome, and pushed it onwards till it glided from the groove of the cystotome along the groove of the staff" into the bladder. Then, [true to the principles of the apparatus major, and never forgetting his own peculiar theory—little incision and much dilata- tion—he forced his fingers along the gorget, dilated the neck of the bladder, and so made way for the forceps. (J. Belt's Principles, vol. ii.) In 1741 Le Dran described an operation, the introduction of which has been claimed by seve- ral surgeons of a later period. The plan may be understood by the following brief explanation of it; '' The first incision being made, I again pass the point of the knife into the curvature of the staff' to the part where it bears against the peri- neum, and direct it to be held there by the as- sistant who supports the scrotum. This done, I take a large director, the end of which is made with a beak like that of a gorget, and, conveying this beak upon the blade of the knife into the groove of tho staff', I draw the knife out. I then slide the beak of this director along the groove of the staff' into tho bladder, and I withdraw the staff by tunn'ug tho handle towards the patient's belly. Tho following circumstances will sufli- ciently satisfy us that tho director is introduced into the bladder. First, if it strikes against the end of the staff', which is closed. Secondly, if tho urine runs along the groove. I next feel for the stone with this director, and, having found it, endeavour to distinguish its size and surface, in order to make choice of a proper pair of forceps, that is, one of a stronger or weaker make, or of a large or small size, agreeably to that of the stone, after whicii I turn tho groove towards the space between the lanua and tuberosity of the ischium, and, resting it there, convey a bistoury along the groove, the blade of which is half an inch broad, and about threo-([uartor8 of an inch long. I con- tiiHie the incision made by tho knife in tlie urethra, and entirely divide the prostate gland