[SCJ INFLAMMATION. some inflammatory maladiea, yet he greatly approves the periodic bleeding of plethoric persons in health. {Opera Omnia Gcticva;, 1740, torn. v. and vi.) Perhaps the great teachers whom I have quoted were led by the necessities of their theories to recommend in the lecture-room what they would shrink from at the bedside. This is rendered probable by an account with which I have been favoured by Professor Laycock of the teaching and practice of Dr. John Rutherford, the maternal grandfather of Sir Walter Scott, who occupied the already distinguished chair of medicine in the University of Edinburs.'h about 1750. Dr. Ruther- ford bled in febrile disease, if at its commence- ent, and the patient young, of full habit, and with a hard, quick, full pulse ; but not if the pulse were not hard. In everything like pleurisy he at once bled to eightounces, and in true pleurisy taught that a large quantity—as much as thirty ounces—should be taken once at the beginning, till the pulse turned soft and weak. In rheumatic fever he bled once at the beginning, and opposed the repeated bleedings of Sydenham. At the begin- ning of fevers he took eightounces, not to remove the fever, but to prepare the way for other remedies. He neither bled nor used reducing remedies in mucous catarrh or bronchitis. He was emphatic in his warnings against excessive bleed- ing. From records of his cases, still extant, he seems not to have bled in cases of debility. Hunter bled freely as a " means of producing absolute weakness," and in order to diminish the " increase of life"—the action with power—in the inflamed part ; but if the inflammation were one of much action with little power, he bled spar- ingly—no more than enough to " lessen the violence of the motion of the blood," induce con- traction of tiie vessels, and " remove the sensation in the part inflamed of having too much to do." (Op. cil. vol.iii. p. 375.) Cullen employed bleed- iiv as a part of that most severe regimen which he° prescribed in fevers and inflammations, in order " to take off the phlogistic diathesis " and '• diminish the activity of the sanguiferous sys- tem." In pleurisy he bled as largely as the patient's vigour would allow. John Burns, of Glasgow, co°nsidered bleeding the most power!"ul and useful remedy, but was averse to bleeding to faiJitness. So was Pearson. {Op. cil.) Ben- iamin Bell, in his System of Surgery, 1796, follows Cullen in theory and practice. Caleb Hillier Parry (1815) bled to diminish the general momentum of the circulation. John Thomson (1813) bled to diminish the quantity of blood, to reduce the force and frequency of the circulation. Wilson Pliilip (1820) bled because the capil- laries were too debilitated to withstand the force of tli«circulation. Dr. John Armstrong {On Typhus; also Ledurcs in Lanoet, 1825) bled in simple fevers as well as in inflammations, and accuses priictition- ers in general of bleeding too often in one case, but " without suflicient decisi(m at first." " In the beginning of my practice," he says, " I used to Older about fifteen ounces of blood to be drawn on tile accession of any common acute inflammatory aifectlon of the visce^^ and the same quantity two, tliree, and even four times afterwards, at intervals of six or eight houis each, if the symptoms c.ni- tiidiied urgent and the strength unsubdued. 3'IG.) " These repeated venesections, together with active purgatives, blisters, and the anti- phlogistic regimen, constituted the means on which all my hopes of success were founded." Many cases, he continues, certainly did well ; several proved fatal, and post-mortem examinations showed that " such repeated bleedings sometimes made little or no impression on visceral inflammation, and I had previously observed that venesection in general only succeeded when it had been carried to faintness." This practice was afterwards adopted, with greater success and even economy of blood. He regrets that the abstraction of 160 ounces in six hours did not stop the prop^ress of a laryngitis. (P. 392.) Sir A. Cooper (i'. 1768, d. 1841) con- sidered a hard pulse the surest indication, and bled to " produce a diminution of nervous power and lessen the momentum of the circulation." The blood, he says, should be abstracted as quickly as possible. Abernetliy (6. 1764, d. 1831) believed that " the fevers produced by local disease are the very identical fevers which physicians meet with when there is no external injury." {Lectures, I2mo. Lond. 1B31.) With regard to the "sympathetic inflammatory fever" following in- juries, he says there is no treatment required. " What must you do to mitigate the affection of the sanguiferous system, which is called fever ? It is evident there is too much action ; you must try to lessen it, then. How ? why by taking away blood. Blood is the natural excitement of the heart and arteries, and if you diminish the blood you diminish the excitement. But in taking away blood you rob the patient of a vital fluid ; consider what you are about ; recollect that you cannot cure the disease. I put the case of a compound fracture. * * * Do not take away his blood, which is his life, for you will find after a certain time that he will stand in need of every degree of vital energy to recover from the injur}'. I have seen a patient bled and bled, and two or three days after the medical man has been glad to throw in the bark, and try every means when it was too late " to restore the wasted strength. The only warrant for bleeding is, that the action of fever wears out strength, and that by lessening action we may save more strength than the bleeding wastes. But, says Abernethy, " if a vital organ is injured, and inflammatiiin comes on," the patient can only be saved by most " resolute conduct " on the part of the surgeon, which would otherwise seem " most outrageous." You musl subdue all vascular action. You must either let the inflam- mation kill, or run the risk of killing tlie patient yourself. " I have lived in London all my life, and am very chary of takinj? Wood, but still it some were to see hov/1 would bleed a patient in in- flammation of a vital organ, they would wonder." Passing over the next ten years, during which Cooper and Abernethy were the leading lights of surgery, we find David Ciiug\<i {Practice of Physic, Edinburgh. 1836) considering fever as a distension of the capillaries from rehixation, with the circula- tion impeded and heart irritated by this mechani- cal obstacle. Inflammation is tiie same state locally. He thought bleeding " suggested by phy- siological considerations'" and " therapeuticjiily beneficial." It should be early and decided (p. 288), " should make a great and evident impression." Jolm Mackintosh, in liis I'alholuyy ami Practice of Physic {Land. UVM), objects to the term dcUhly as a description of the state of the capillaries lu inllammatiou. They are strong enough, he says,