I i INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. {GaUro- 81 inleslinal coKcrelions.) Comprehending under this head both gall-stones and intestinal concretions, an interesting subject presents itself, certain parts I of which have been chiefly elucidated in modern times. When the concretions voided are numer- ous, they are generally gall stones. Thus, Dr. Coe relates an instance in which several were voided in one day. In the same short time, Peterniann knew of 7'2 being discharged from one individual; Birch, 100; Barbette, Sloane, and Vagel, 200; and Russell, 400. A patient, under the care of Vow Sarsten, had voided 200, and was still continuing to expel others. Riverius speaks of another patient who had voided calculi from the bowels for several years whenever Jie went to stool. Fernelius likewise adverts to cases in which the concretions evacuated w ere innumerable {Pathol, lib. vi. cap. 0). Alvine concretions are of various sizes. Most of them are not larger than a pea or nut ; but others are as large as an orange, and weigh four pounds. (See Munro's Morbid Anat. of the Human Gullet, &c. ; and Med. Chir. Joitrn., vol. iv. p. 118). Morgagni saw one which equalled in size a moderate finger, and Gooeli, Guettard, Huermann, Mareschal,"(Jo«r«. de I'Acad. Royale da Chi. t. iii. p. 55) and others, have seen concretions of this nature, which were too bulky to pass out of the rectum without sur- gical aid. In certain e.Yamples recorded by Huer- mann and Mareschal, the passage of the concretion outwards lacerated the sphincter ani. Horstius speaks of one concretion which was as large as an apple (Epist. I. ii. sect. 2. Opp. ii. p. 237), and Marcellus Donatus, Schwind {Schmtclier's Venn. Schri/ten, vii. p. 129), Hooke, Vennette, and Hecquet, give the particulars of other examples, in which the concretions discharged were as large as a hen's egg. Mr. C. White extracted two Irom the rectum, which were nearly as big as the m {Cases in Surrjcrij, p. 18); and in a boj% who had died in an emaciated state, after continued pain in the abdomen, attended with frequent at- tacks of ileus, Mr. Hey found in the transverse arch of the colon so large a concretion, that it could not pass any farther along the bowel, and appeared to have been the sole cause of death. {Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 509, ed. 2.) An analogous case is reported by White (p. 28.) Duhamel saw a con- cretion which had been discharged, and was two inches and a half in length, one inch and a half in diameter, three inches and a half in circumference, and weighed three drachms and a half. But, judging by their weight, how much larger those must have been which were seen by Schroekius and Lettsom, and weighed ten drachms ; that re- ported by Dola;iis, which weighed two ounces; that recorded by Orteschi, which, besides weighing two ounces, two drachms and a half, was eight inches m circumference, and was taken out by force ; that recorded by Schaarschmidt, which weiglied lour ounces ; and lastly, the specimen cited by i;iouquet (Literatura Med. Dig. vol. i. p. 171) the weight of which is alleged to have been half a pound. {Samml. Med. Wahrnehm. b. ix p 2.31 ) It IS observed by Rnbini, that although examples 01 alvine concretions being discharged by vomit- ing are not so frequent as the foregoing cases, yet tney are tolerably numerous. Many of ihcm cT }"'a\ '"H"'"*^ Schenck, and others are collected by Breyn (P/«7. Trans. No. -179) • bv Vol.. IT. ■ •> Orteschi 1.1 his journal; by Moreali {DelV Uscita I fl""" P"'tra,per la Via del Esophago, Modena, 1/81); by Borseri ; and by a long list of other writers, whose names and publications are specified by Plouquet. {Lit. Med. Dig. art. Calculns Vo- iiiiftcs, ^c.) Wkh this class of substances may also be arranged those concretions, which are found upon dissection cither in the intestines or stomach, whence, probfvbly, in time, they might have been expelled. Facts of this description are recorded by Portal, Vicq d'Azyr, Jacquinelle, Chandron, &e. The cases recited by White and Hey, in which the colon was completely obstruct- ed, I have already mentioned ; and to these may be added the instance quoted by Rubini, in which Meckel found the jejunum entirely blocked up by a similar substance. {See Peiisieri'mlta varia Ori- ginc e Naturu de Corpi calcolosi, che vengono talvolta espulsi dal Tuho gaslrico, Mcmoria, p. 5 and 6, 4 to Verona, 1808.) With respect to the origin of alvine concretions, whether discharged from the alimentary canal up- wards or downwards, some of them appear to be formed in that canal itself, while others pass into it from other situations ; and they all admit of being distinguished according to the place of their origin and formation into three kinds : \. hepatic, or biliary; 2. gastric, or intestinal; and 3. (what Rubini terms) mixed, or hepatico-gastric. Hepatic alvine concretions, as the name applies, are derived from some point of the hepatic system : the gastric, or intestinal, are formed within the alimentary canal; and the mixed commence in the hepatic organs, but afterwards get into the bowels, where they acquire an increased size. The accuracy of the preceding statement is but trivially affected by the observation of the late Dr. Marcet, that he on^e found a stone in the ali- mentary canal, which came from the urinary passages: a communication existed between them, the rectum being imperforate. Here also, it should likewise be remembered, that some con- cretions are formed of substances swallowed, and afterwards cemented together and accumulated in such masses as to obstruct the bowels, and create dangerous effects, as, for instance, mustard seed, chalk, magnesia, and carbonate of iron. ' If, when carbonate of iron is prescribed, the bowels are not kept open, large masses of i't are apt to collect in the large intestines. Dr. Elliotson attended a man, who took two pounds of it every day forseveral days when labouring under tetanus, and large lumps of it were regularly discharged] covered with mucus, and without any pain, because' their passage was facilitated with clysters. The patient under Dr. Elliotson, who took carbonate of iron,if he neglected to keep his bowels open, used to find his rectum become dry and distended ; and on one occasion, a shovelful was found in his bed' which he had amused himself day and night in removing. {See Elliotso7i's Lectures, Med. Gaz for 1832-33, p. 598.) Some hepatic concretions cannot pass from the place of their origin into the intestines, but only such as are situated in the hepatic duct, or its main branches, in the gall-bliidder, the cvstic duct, or the ductus choledochus. When their size is not disproportionate to the diameter of the ducts, they pass with facility; but, when their di- mensions arc larger than those ducts can naturally admit, the latter become stretched and dilated