[58] INFLAMMATION. Here we may pause for a moment to express our wonder at the glimpses we get of the bleed- ing practised in the last generation. The reign of the lancet was terribly absolute, and it was used under conditions which now seem pre- posterous. It was so common as to leave its trace in history and literature. Goethe, in liis Sor- rotos of TFtfrter (published 1774), after bis hero had shot himself through the head, describes the Burgeon bleeding the dying man. The Queen Ame'lie, widow of Louis-Philippe, describes the surgeon as attempting to bleed her son the Due d'Orleans whilst dying from the effects of a fall from his carriage in 1842. Sir Walter Scott tells how, in 1785, he was bled almost to inanition for spitting of blood. The late Bishop Bagot, of Bath and Wells, told me that when a young man he was thrown from his horse in Hyde Park, and carried insensible into the barracks close hy. Sir Everard Home was sent for, who immediately bled him, but was too drunk to stop the blood. Tlie patient's mother-in-law, Lady Jersey, who was in the room, was expressing great uneasiness at this state of things, and the first thing the pa- tient noticed, on coming to his senses, was Sir I^verard muttering, " Who's that —■ woman in blue ? " Coarse habits at table, coarse lan- fiuage, and coarse modes ot practice went together. Lord Byron's end was certainly not averted by furious bleeding in 1824. A year or two earlier the late Mr. Wakley, in setting up a weekly paper for the medical profession, named it " The Lancet," as the most fitting symbol and chief weapon ot the craft. The worst of it was that the bleed- ing was not confined to cases conventionally called " sthenic," in which a reason could be given for it, but was practised in maladies utterly unfit to be so treated—as, for instance, in diffuse inflam- mation from blood-poisoning. (See art. Ery- .siPELAS.) Patients were furiously bled imme- diately after injuries, ere they could have recovered from " shock," and before inflammation could have been established. Marshall Hall quotes the case of a man. brought to St. Bartholomew's Hospital with three ribs broken by a fall from a scaffold. He was bled to 1 8 oz.; soon afterward 20 more were taken ; second day, twice bled to 18 oz. ; third da}-, because the pulse was jerky, he was bled again, but the dresser would only take a few ounces, Mr. Lloyd, a fearful bleeder, and Mr. Lawrence ordered 20 oz. to be taken, after which the pulse became a mere flutter," and the man died. Equally shocking was the case of a sur- geon who was bled to death at Dr. Marshall Hall's own house at Nottingham in 1821, after a fall from his horse and broken ribs. This poor man twice bled himself in the night into a wash-hand basin! and his advisers, after bleeding, leeches, and pt3'alism, were proposing to cup him, when he became insensible, and soon died. The effects of loss of blood, the jerking pulse, and undue ex- citement were often mistaken for "action re- quiring further depletion ; and, strange as it may seem, there is no doubt that fresh blood-lettnig was often employed to relieve these ill effects, and often with temporary benefit. The idea, too of using blood-letting as a means of diagnosis—that is to Bay, to bleed patients who ought not to be bled in order to prove that bleeding was wrong— seems terrible. Perhaps the most humiliating part of Marshal Hall's book is his statement of the absoluteness of bleeding as " the remedy and the only remedy for inflammation." Well does he describe himself, as well as his medical brethren, when he says they " think only of the disease and forget the patient." Let us look at some of the causes (or conco- mitants) of this love of bleeding which inspired our forefathers. In the first place there is no doubt that it is a positive remedy ; it relieves (though, peradventure, for a time only) the dread- ful pain of an acute inflammation ; it makes the breathing freer, and is followed by a delicious sense of langour and inclination to sleep. As we have just said, there is no doubt that a few leeches will quiet for a time the throbbing caused even by previous loss of blood. Secondly, it was sanc- tioned by the preponderance of medical authority, and adopted by popular prejudice, so that most surgeons would not have dared not to bleed even if they thought it improper. A man, about 1835, fell from a balloon at a great height and was smashed to pieces; yet the surgeon who first saw him tried to bleed his mangled remains, and it was oberved at the time that no surgeon dared face a coroner's jury who had not bled in any case of accident, injury, or sudden death. It was an ancient and inveterate custom with many people to be bled spring and fall, and to be bled on any change. For instance, a man jilted in love was bled to mitigate grief ; a man who came in for a fortune was bled to check exuberant joy. Schoolboys were physicked before bathing, and before going home for the holidays ; many people were bled before a journey. The Prince Regent was bled to make him look interesting in the eyes of a woman. Singularly enough, the illustrious Stah], who denounced bleeding in fever or other disease, yet recommended it in health to " ventilate the blood" and prevent disease. He prescribes it for both men and women of full habit and middle life, and especially for women at the cessation of the menses; and, as for himself, he thanks God that he has been able to preserve his health by this means during 43 years of prac- tice. He began to be bled at 17, and says that in November 1727 he entered his sixt3--ninth year, and was bled for the 102nd time, to the increase of liis akcrity and vigour. I have already quoted Hoffmann. (P. 55.) Thirdly, all the medical theories which suc- ceeded each other in the way we have described, opposite as they might be in their premises, came to bleeding as their conclusion. Whether the capillaries were in too great force and action, or whether they were debilitated, whether there were too much or too little oxydation, the good effects of bleeding were equally demonstrable. The dominant theory of Hunter that inflammation consisted in excess of life and action was taken by his pupils without the checks and corrections which his own sagacious mind dictated. Broussais, Clut- terbuck, and others, held the doctrine that most diseases depend on some latent inflammation. The prevalent medical notion was threefold, viz. (1) "ex- cited and increased action," as Abernethy called it; next (2) the doctrine of llaller that the action of the heart depends on the stimulus of the blood; and (3) the doctrine ofCul!en,in the words of EUiotson, that it was necessary " to exclude external and re- move internal stinnili." This threefold chain of error was the strength of the bleeding system.