URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. with advantage, viz. one of small size, having a bulbous or olive-shaped extremity two or three sizes larger than the stem, which also should be graduated; this being made to pass with some little difficulty through the stricture, it will be apparent enough when the bulb becomes free on the farther side, and by observing the graduations, the length of the strictured part is also arrived at. Carrying it deeper still, the existence of another contraction will in the same manner be more readily diagnosed than with an ordinary sound : and in withdrawing the instrument, we check the conclusions obtained during its introduction, by noting the obstruction felt in withdrawing the bulb through the narrowed portion or portions. 829 Treatment.—To accomplish the removal of per manent stricture, two indications are presented, which may be thus briefly stated :— 1st. To restore the natural calibre of the canal, or at least so far as shall be consistent with the safety and comfort of the patient. 2Md. To maintain the adequate patency of the canal afterwards. We have already seen that strictures may vary in degree, i.e. in amount of contraction; in extent, i.e. in length from before backwards; in dilata- bility, in disposition to return, in local sensibility, in liability to manifest sympathy with other parts of the body through the agency of the ner- vous system, and in other minor particulars. Hence various modes of treatment are necessary, appro- priate to different cases. Hence innumerable inventions for the fulfilling of the above indications have been described, and modes of treatment pro- posed. This fact shows both the frequency and the importance of the affection, and the want, either of an efficient mode of treatment, or of a rational and systematic application of our present appliances to suitable cases, or perhaps, to some extent, of both. All these plans, however, may be resolved into three classes. The opposing tissue of the stricture is either dilated, which usually involves the re- moval of some of its component elements by ab- sorption, as the result of pressure, or it is wholly or partially destroyed by chemical agents, or it is divided by some cutting instrument; and of course all these processes may be more or less combined with certain general or constitutional treatment. The Treatment of Stricture by Dilatation. As this is the mildest, so it is the most de- sirable treatment to employ v/henever the case admits of it. At the same time it is by far the most generally applicable, as being that which is beyond all question best adapted to cure a very large proportion of all the cases presented to our notice. It is the method which most surgeons agree to use as the rule, availing themselves of other means when its action is either not effective on account of the impermeability of the stricture, or insufficient to maintain patency of the canal, from the unyielding nature of the obstruction when passed, or impracticable from the acute sensibility of the urethra, and the consequent pain which results from and follows the operation. The re- cords of surgery show also that it has home the tost of experience lo)iger than any other plan of treatment, having been employed for the destruc- tion of " carnosities " in the time of Galen, and liever having been laid aside since, although num- berless additions to our means and appliances of cure have been subsequently both invented and forgotten. Usually a solid sound or a flexible bougie, as large as the stricture will fairly admit, should be passed and removed at once. I am quite satisfied that nothing is gained by permitting its stay in the canal, even for a single minute, while irritation is often occasioned. If an instrument is permitted to remain at all, it should be for a time of thirty- six or forty-eight hours, or more ; this treatment will be discussed under the head of Continuous Dilatation. The instrument is then to be withdrawn with as much care and gentleness as was employed in in- troducing it: a note of the size should be recorded, and the patient desired to come again in three days. The same sound may then be passed, and probably with greater ease than before; if so, it is to be withdrawn at once, and the next size larger introduced. The visit should be repeated generally in three days, or it maybe in two (but not sooner), if neither pain, nor bleeding, nor much smarting in micturition, follow and continue after the opera- tion. Sometimes a fit of shivering occurs, or the patient may be faint or sick, which are not unfre- quent effects of the passage of an instrument, more especially when experienced for the first time. If any of these phenomena take place and are re- peated, let the interval be lengthened a day or two, and inquire into the general condition of the health. If there be reason to suspect that the stomach and bowels are loaded, an active aperient niay be prescribed, after which the administration of two or three grains of quinine, twice a daj', will often prevent their recurrence. If he complains of smarting or soreness of the urethra, and that micturition is painful, the state of his urme should be ascertained, as it is perhaps unduly acid, which will make it desirable to regu- late his diet and habits so as to promote a healthy character in the secretions generally. At the same time, if it be so, he will generally derive benefit by taking a few doses of the bicarbonate or the citrate of potash, together with hyoscyamus, if there is irritability of the bladder. Or, the alkali may be given in decoction of uva ursi, or infusion of buchu, or decoction of triticum repens, if the latter symptoms predominate. Irritability of the urethra, however, is much allayed by the gentle and careful use of instru- ments. Even when much suffering is produaed at the first attempt, it usually becomes notably less at every succeeding passage of the sound. Most commonly, a wax bougie or other flexible instru- ment IS more easily borne than metiillic sounds and will then be more efficient. Proceeding bv gradual steps, we should go on to No. 10, 11 and 12; or, speaking generally, any instrument which the external orifice of the urethra will admit, with- out appearing to be overstretched, may be'safelv employed. ^ In all cases, however, the maximum point of dilatation reached, whatever it may bi^ should be maintained for a short time, the largest sized in- strument employed being used atgraiiually increas- ing intervals of time, in order to niaiiitaiii the ground which has been won. Thus the treatment may be relaxed by degrees, making one or two weekly, one or two fortnightly, and finiilly one or two monthly trials of the instruiuciit.