OPIUM. 398 from each otlier and from opium itself, into tlie coniposiuon of which they enter; and it is the ob- ject of the writer as far as possible to give the "latest results of physiological investigators into their effects. Before, however, so doing it would be best to describe the efl^jcts of opium itself upon the human system. Opium may be considered as a therapeutical agent in small doses, and as a poison in large doses, —or more physiologically its action may le said to consist of three stages. 1st, that of excitement; 2nd, that of depress-ion or of full medicinal effect; and'srd, of excessive medicinal eifect, in which case symptoms of poisoning are manifested, and death occurs or is imminent. In the first stage, that is when a small dose, say from ^ to ^ grain of opium is administered, the symptoms are those of gentle excitement of the system, there is a general rise of the circulation, a sensation of fullness in the head which may be pleasurable or amount to giddiness, the ideas be- come exalted, the person talks more brightly, a general sense of comfort is experienced, and the skin feels warm. The mouth and throat get dry, hunger is lessened, thirst occasioned; the bowels are usually slightly confined; sleep may occur, but is usually the effect of a larger dose. The pupds of the eyes are contracted in proportion to the amount given. In the second stage, when a full medicinal dose has been given, the symptoms are those of depres- sion of the system and narcotism of the brain. The excitement rapidly disappears, the thirst is in- creased, appetite diminished, nausea, and sick- ness often follow; the pulse goes down even below the natural, sleep more or less profound is induced, previous to which a great sense of muscular languor or prostration may be complained of. The sleep may be accompanied by dreams, pleasant or the reverse according to circumstances. On waking, the patient is often " heavy " in the head for some time, or giddy, and often sick or too nauseated to take food for some hours. In the third stage there are symptoms of poison- ing, and death occurs, unless averted by treatment. The symptoms of poisoning with opium, says Chris- tison, " when it is administered at once in a dan- gerous dose, begins with giddiness and stupor gene- rally without any previous stimulation. The stupor rapidly increasing, the person becomes motionless and insensible to external impressions, he breathes very slowly generally, lies quite still with his eyes bhiit and pirpils contracted ; and the whole ex- pression of the countenance is that of dec p and per- fect repose. As the poisoning advances, the featiires become ghasllv, the pulse feeble and imperceptible, the muscles exceedingly relaxed, and unless assist- ance is speedily procured, death ensues. {Clirtdtson on Poisons.) Death occurs by apncea or cessation of respiratory action chit% through paralysis ot the muscles. , • i » Such may be considered the physiological effects upon people in health ; we must now pass rapidly on to the Ihcrupcutical eff< els of o})ium. These are many indeed, and require some kind of arrangement in order to show upon what class of affections the indiiencc of opium is most service- able ; as a general rule it niigiit be said that it will be found mot,t valuable in aifections peculiar to those parts of the system upon which its physi- ologic.ll pheuouu-na are most nuirkod, when a small dose is administered to a healthy individual. Thus the diseases and derangements of the cerebro-spimd nervous system deserves the first place. It is by virtue of its soporific powers that it is so valuable in cerebral affections, giving artificial sleep to the restless, and to such, " the sleep of an opiate is better than no sleep " (Allmlt.), giving' ease and comfort to the troubled mind, giving rest to the delirious and the raving, giving power to the exhausted brain, and life and enjoyment to the melancholic. In delirium tremens there is no medicine better than opium when given with care, for in this complaint the patient dies unless he sleeps, and rapidly recovers after the brain has fairly slept. Fain is the next great evil which opium coni- hatp, and for which it is an invaluable remedy. Pain which unrelieved harasses and exhausts tlie patient, and which may shorten life, can be com- pletely kept in abeyance and cured by this drug. Of the forms of pain and the best mode of ap- plying the opium,' some notice will be found in Articles Neuralgia, Sciatica, Subcutaneous Injec- tion, d^'C. The other chief nervous affections, for the most part of a reflfx spinal nature, are excessive sensi- bility of the nerves or hyperajsthesia, which may be worse to bear than pain itself, and muscular spasm or cramp in its various varieties of lock-jaw, tonic spasm, epilepsj', chorea, cramps, vomiting, retention of urine, &c. These are all affections of the nerves which opium will oftentimes allay and sometimes cure. Upon the cutaneous system opium has great power: its action is two-fold; for whilst it will diminish pain and hyperajsthesia, it will increase the excretory function of the skin, copious perspira- tion being often the result of a fair dose of opium, which is therefore valuable as a sudorific upon the vascular system. The great importance of opium as an antiphlogistic must not be overlooked. It is constantly prescribed with calomel in febrile and inflammatory constitutions; say, for instance, in sclerotitis and orchitis, and the object with which it is given is partly to prevent the calomel acting too much on the bowels and other secretions, and partly to ease the pain of the inflammation. Now, I believe opium deserves far more credit in these diseases than it usually obtains. I have seen severe inflammations rapidly abate directly after a full dose of opium ; and it is well known that some- times a fever may be cut short, and rapid conva- lescence follow the timely administration of an opiate. Opium acts upon the pulse, it reduces its frequenc3% as it does also of respiratory action; it acts on the skin, causing diaphoresis ; it arrests pain, and the exhaustion consequent upon it ; it gives sleep, and so prevents anxiety ; it possesses moreover a power of arresting some secretions, ail of which favour the idea of opium being anti- phlogistic. In peritonitis therefore, and every other itis, as well as fevers, opium is of great value, except in those cases in which there is a tendency to coma or sopor. . On the Ro'piralory System, the effect of opium is more depressive tlian upon the circulatory ancl the nervous. Great care is required if opium is admi- nistered in a case in which the lungs are much in- terfered with in their action, or hkely to be more man usually loaded with secretion, asm brorchit. . The tendency of a large dose ol opium is to dmn-