MORTIFICATION. pl03'iiig tho sulphate of quiniiie, instead of the common preparations. Bark frequently disagrees with the stomach; in which case I should say, that it ought not to be continued at all; though, in this circumstance, the usual plan is to give, instead of the decoction, the infusion, or the powder finely divided, and mixed with wine, oi' what is yet better, the sulphate of quinine. Several years ago I published a critique on the indiscriminate employment of bark in cases of mortification, and my remarks were inserted in the article Gangrene in Dr. Rees's Cyclopcedia. Many of them were introduced into the 2d edi- tion of this surgical dictionary, printed in 181.3. (See Cinchona.) Since this period I am happy to find, that the blind enthusiasm with which bark was prescribed is beginning to subside, and that on this subject, some eminent surgeons have of late publicly avowed sentiments which entirely coincide with my former statements. " I think (says Dr. Thomson) I have frequently seen it prove hurtful, when administered in cases of mor- tification, by loading the stomach of the patient, creating a dislike to food, and sometimes by ex- citing an obstinate diarrhoea. I believe it to be, in mortification, a medicine completely inert, and in- efficacious."' (See Lect. on Inflammation, p. 563.) By this expression, Professor Thomson does not mean, that bark can never be useful in cases of mortification, but only that it has no specific power in checking the disorder, as may have been erroneously inculcated. " Bark (says Boyer) has been considered by several distinguished English practitioners as a true specific against gangrene in general, and es- pecially against that which depends upon an in- ternal cause ; but subsequent observations to those published in England have proved that it has no power over the immediate cause of gangrene, and that it only acts as a powerful tonic in stopping the progress of the disorder, and promoting the sepa- ration of the mortified parts." (See Maladies Cliir. t. i. p. 151. Paris, 1814.) Boyer also par- ticularly objects to bark being given while inflnm- raatory fever prevails; but whenever he prescribes bark in cases of mortification, he seems to enter- tain the old prejudice of expecting benefit in pro- portion to the quantity which can be got into the stomach. On the contrary, Mr. Guthrie declares, that he has not found bark useful, "further than as tonic, and given in such quantities as not to overload the stomach." (On Gunshot Wounds. p. 148, ed. 2.) ' A third indication is, to lessen the irritalility and sufferings of the patient, by the use of opium. In all cases of mortification, everything which heats, irritates, or adds to the patient's sufferings, ap- pears, in general, to augment the disorder, and increase the rapidity of its progress. On the other hand, everything which tends to calm, asanagc, and relax, frequently retards the progress of mor- tihcation, if u produce no greater good. The pain, also, which IS a constant mark of too much irrita- tion, contributes of itself to increase such irrita- tion and, in this double point of view, we cannot do better, in the majority of cases, than endeavour to appease It by the judicious and liberal use of opium When the inflammatory stage evidently prevaiig^ this medicine may be conjoined with an- tiphlogistic remedies, such as the nitrate of potash antimonials, &c. In other instances, attended with 311 debility. It may be given with bark and cordials, LMr, Cooper's remarks on bark, which were originally written more than fifty years ago, refer to the employment of powdered peruvian bark, as a specific against mortification per se. On which we must observe that modern pharmacy enables us to separate the active principles of bark from the inert sawdust, so that the patient's stomach need not now be loaded with the ounces of powder which were formerly "thrown in," as the phrase was. In cases of gangrene, the patient may take quinine in the small doses with acid, which excite appe- tite and promote digestion; it is not advisable in large sedative or antiperiodic doses. But if we want a preparation to stem spreading moist gan- grene when there is deficient vital resistance of the neighbouring soft parts, none is equal to the liquor cinchonas flavaa of Battley, of which the dose is twenty minims every three hours in water.] Treatment of Senile Gangrene.—In this kind of mortification, Mr. Pott found bark, used internally or externally, by itself or joined with other me- dicines, completely inefi^ectual. His plan was generally to give one grain of opium every three or four hours; but never less than three or four grains in the course of four- and-twenty hours. However, he did not propose opium as a universal infallible specific, but only as a medicine which would cure many cases, not to be saved by bark. M. Dupuytren, who espouses the doctrine, that this species of mortification depends upon obstruc- tion of the vessels by arteritis, advises it to be treated by means of venesection and opium. By this plan, he affirms that he has saved two-thirds, or even three-fourths of his patients. In this coun- trj', I should say, that not more than one patient in twenty is saved, who is attacked with this species of gangrene, and consequently, that if Dupuvtren's practice were truly as successful as allege'd, the means employed by him should be employed every- where without hesitation. They have already been tried in this metropolis; but without any encourag- ing results. Nor does M. Cruveilhier, though a believer in arteritis being the cause of what is called gangrasna senilis, give any confirmation of the eflicacy of general bleeding, as practised by his distinguished friend. Baron Dupuytren. " The doctrine (says he) of arteritis being the cause of this mortification, has entirely changed the treat- ment of it; and for tonics, employed in every form externally and internally, Dupuytren substituted venesection. But, though more rational, / (/o not knoiv that this method has had advantageous results. The good effects of local bleeding in phlebitis has induced mc to prefer it to general bleeding in the treatment of arteritis. The agonizing pain attendant on this disorder seems to me to render opium indispensable, which was first given by Pott in a case where he saved his patient." (Ana) Pathol, t. ii. livr. 27.) The observations of Pott on the local treatment of these cases are of great practical importance, " I have found (says he) more advantage from fre- quently soaking the foot and ankle in warm milk . than from any spirituous or aromatic fomentations whatever; that is, I have found the one more capable of alleviating the pain which such patients almost always feel, than the other; which circum- stance I regard as a very material one. Pain is