60 temperature, and peculiarly prevalent during east winds. It has nothing to do with contagion. Pycemia is a diseased state of the blood, caused by the presence therein of septic matters, and is usually attended with local inflammations, which pass rapidly into the suppurative stage. It most often follows injuries of the bones, which suffer putrid discharges to pass into open veins, or parturi- tion. The local inflammations or abscesses may occur in any part of the body, as the muscles, brain, eves, joints, &c., and are often symmetrical; or the bowels or the liver may be the organs by which the poison is discharged; or the serous membranes may become inflamed, with rapid effu- sion of serum or pus. The part to be attacked usually suffers from pain only a few hours before pus begins to be formed. In mild cases the local inflammations may pass off without actual suppura- tion. Again there may be difuse inflammation of the cellular tissue, beginning with a limited, tense, pale, boggy swelling on any part of the body, and spreading very rapidly; there is great pain, anxiety, and irritability, and the case proceeds like one ol phlegmonous erysipelas without the affection of the skin. If the patient be previously weak, if there be frequent shiverings, and if the amount of sup- puration be great, the hope of recovery is very slight. The patient may sink rapidly, or linger If he is able to outlast the disease, the natural discharges are for some time loaded with fetid matters! (See Erysiielas, Pyemia. ) Snake-bites commonly produce the diffuse cel- lular inflammation in a severe form. So also do dissection wounds and the poison of glanders. Phlegmasia alba dolens is a peculiar inflamma- tion, attended with severe pain, great heat, and a firm, pale, brawny swelling of the affected part, quite different from oedema. It appears to be caused bv the effusion of poisonous matters from infected veins into the tissues around. It is not caused bv simple obstruction of the vein, as is proved by the fact that veins, simply obstructed, do not cause phlegmasia dolens ; and that the firm swelling of the limb may remain for years after the attack. The disease usually affects the thigh and leg in women after childbirth, and is attributed to infection of the iliac vein from the neighbourhood of a uterus full of fetid dis- charges. But cases of the same disease have been known to occur in men, arising apparently from the proximity of foul wounds to the veins ot the thig The following case, from the writer's note-book illustrates the point. A very stout gentleman had for two vears a small fistulous orifice in the ham, resulting" from a boil. This became the seat ot fresh inflammation, and was freely laid open, with great relief. On the fifth day he was rather feverish ; there was an obscure, doughy swelling, not (Edematous nor fluctuating, over the inner part of the thigh; there was no pain, but a sense of tightness. This increased during the next th.ee days, and became painful, till the whole thigh was greatly swelled and doughy, the leg oedema ous. The late Mr. Keate insis.ed that there must be deep-seated suppuration ; and made a long and deep gash on the outside of the thigh. The par s cut seemed gelatinous, and exuded very little blood, no pus; and no serum. The pulse gradually rose; headache, diarrhoea, and delirium came on. As no improvement took place in the state ot tlie thigh, Mr. ^Ceato made deep puiictures into its INFLAMMATION. upper parts with a grooved needle ; neither serum nor pus exuded. Death on the twentieth day. The writer has seen a similar case, but not fatal, in a gentleman recovering from a sloughing sore in the groin producL'd by scarlet fever. It is a singular fact that this and similar diseases are more likely to attack parturient women if they have lost much blood. As results of it, if the attack has been merely local, the venous trunks of the thigh are obliterated, with much hardening and swelling along their course; and abscesses some- times form. If general pyasmia has supervened, the prognosis becomes exceedingly doubtful. Embolic Inflammation results from the stoppage of an artery by a plug of fibrin or other substance driven into it by the force of the heart. The sub- stances set afloat in the arterial circulation must necessarily come from the left side of the heart, or from the lungs; and commonly produce their effects by sudden mechanical occlusion, whether they find their resting-place in the brain, eye, kidney, or elsewhere. The veins, on the contrary, carry any matters which find their way into them to the right side of the heart, and thence to the lungs. A large fibrinous clot causes sudden death. Small bodies of the same kind may cut off the supply of blood from limited portions of the lungs, which wither and die in consequence; and septic or cancerous matters brought in the same wav set up their special processes of inflam- mation or cell-growth. In this way the pneumonia which so often follows wounds and operations is easily accounted for. If the clot in the artery should degenerate, and the fragments of us decomposing fibrin be carried on into the cir- culation, pyajmia may be the result. Softening of a portion of brain is a frequent consequence of plugging of one of the cerebral arteries. Sudden blindness may result from a plug in the ophthalmic artery. The' existence of rheumatic endocarditis, rendering it likely that flakes of fibrin might be- come adherent to, and be suddenly detaclied from, the valves or walls of the left ventricle, should lead us to be on the watch for embolism ; but it must be said that inflammation by no means is a constant sequence of the plugging of an artery—the ophthal- mic, for instance. The coagulation of blood in veins, from which danger to the pulmonary circulation arises, may occur in the womb after parturition ; or in the legs during periods of debility with languid circu- lation, as in phthisis. It may be followed by pUcbitis. But idiopathic phlebitis is not a com- mon disease. It may be recognised in superficial veins by redness and swelling, with tenderness along their course, which becomes plugged by the formation of clots. The coats of the vein are thick- ened and reddened in both cases, especially where they have been in contact with the clot. They may iifterwards become softened, and break down into iin abscess surrounding the vessel, while the clot softens into purulent fluid, which may escape into the general circulation and cause pyaimia, or the inflammation may quickly subside, and the clot shrink, leaving the vein impervious. Perhaps the best examples of the varieties of inflammation, including every possible modification of form, colour, duration, and structural alteration, each variety pursuing its specific course with mar- vellous regularity, are to be found in the diseases of the skin, et/e mid throat. For a complete account