924 VENEREAL DISEASE. for several days. I firmly believe also, that, in the greater number of cases of sloughing ulcer, ivhere mercury is not given, no secondary symptoms viould appear: and in those cases in which they did appear, I apprehend, they would be equally dependent on the state of the constitution, as to the mode of cure, and their destructive characters. In other words,my observations lead me to conclude that iliese ulcers do not depend upo?i a specific poison, but on ilie state of the constitution, under particular excitement ; and that, tvhe?i secondary symptoms occur, they are not dependent on the state of the ulcer ; although I am ready to admit that, in a constitution where an ulcer will readily become phagedsenic, the secondary symptoms, when they occur, may be different to a certain extent from those that follow more simple ulcers, in a healthier habit of hoiy:'{Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 564.) Repeated and careful observations make me also believe, that primarv sloughing uhera do not depend upon any peculiar poison; and I am also disposed to join in the opinion, that, when hurtful local treatment is out of the question, they are chiefly ov/ing to the state of the constitution. According to my experience, all kinds of ulcers on the geni- tals may, from particularity of constitution, impair- ment of health, and sometimes from the pernicious effects of the immoderate and indiscriminate em- ployment of mercury, assume in their progress a sloughing disposition, and even have it from their very commencement. Mr. Rose mentions a case, in which a Jiealthy young man was affected with a sloughing sore on the penis, in consequence of a suspicious connexion. It was not attended with any constitutional disturbance, and yielded readily to mercury. The same patient, twice afterwards, at a very considerable interval, had a fresh infection, and the sores each time had precisely the same character as the first. Tliis, says Mr. Rose, is no uncommon occurrence, and it is not probable that the sloughing and appearance of the sores arose from the peculiarity of the poison. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 420.) And another intelligent surgeon, who has particularly attended to this in- vestigation, declares his conviction, that ' many varieties of sore, independently of the sloughy chancre mentioned by Mr. Carmichael, lead to constitutional symptoms, differing in no respect from those he has described, and admitting of the same mode of cure." Nor does lie believe, with Mr Carmichael, that only one particular species of sore is capable of producing the true secondary svmptoms of lues. {J. Bacot, On Syphilis, p. 51) " From these observations, I think, we may sateiy infer that with respect to the sloughing ulcer, it neither arises from the application of any one specific poison to the part, nor is it connected with any regular train of secondary symptoms. Dr. Hennen frequently had occasion to observe that eruptions of the same nature and character suc- ceeded to the foul indurated, excavated ulcer, and to the simple excoriation. " In fifteen cases of erup- tions unaccompanied by any other symptoms, which succeeded the Hunterian sore, six were tubercular, five exanthematous, two pustular, one tubercular and scaly, and one tubercular and vesicular. " In four cases, following the same sore, but in which the eruptions were complicated with sore- throat, two were tubercular, one was tubercular and scaly, and one was tubercular and exnnthematinis. " lu twelve cases following the «on-IIunteriaii sore, and in which eruptions were the only gvni- ptoms, six were pustular, three were exanthematous, and one was tubercular and scaly. " In seven cases, where the eruption wag accompanied with sore-throat, three were exan- thematous, two were tubercular, one was papular, scaly, and tubercular, and one was pustular and tubercular." Dr. Hennen also recites an instance in which a Hunterian chancre was, at the distance of ten weeks, succeeded bj' a papular eruption, which, in the course of a month, was removed by low diet, purgatives, and the decoction of sarsaparilla. In two months afterwards, an eruption of a similar nature appeared without any fresh infection. This was treated with mercury, which was administered five weeks, so as to excite a moderate salivation. Under this treatment, the eruption faded, having, during its progress, assumed the appearance of vesicles and pustules, and at length falling off in amber-colouied scales with livid bases. Notwith- standing this mercurial course, the patient was a third time admitted, ten weeks afterwards (with- out any intervening primary affection), with a pustular eruption, which was finally cured without mercury, and the pustules falling off in squamulae. In another month, vvithout any fresh infection, he was a fourth time taken into hospital with a very thickly dispersed pualular eruption, somewhat dif- ferent from the former, the pustules being more numerous, smaller, and acuminated. They yielded to non-mercurial treatment. During all these attacks, there was apthous sore-throat, and occa- sional flying pains in the joints. The inference drawn from this case is, that even a full and judiciously conducted mercurial course does not prevent the reappearance of venereal eruptions, and that they assume at different times, different characters, notwithstanding the interruption they receive in their natural progress by the use of that remedy. {On Medical Surgery, ed. 2, p. 528-530.) After these accounts, I can have no hesitation in coining to another conclusion; which is, that, with the exception of the partial confirmation of Mr. Carraichael's doctrine by Mr. Rose, so far as relates to the frequency of papular eruptions after superficial primary ulcers, the regular connexion of particular forms of secondary symptoms with any given descriptions of primary sores is so far from being supported by the testimony of other observers, that one kind of primary ulcer ni.iy lead, in the same patient, to eruptions of several different sorts, either existing together on various parts of the body, or breaking out in succession; and no regular connexion can be traced between any one species of primary sore and any deter- minate class of secondary symptoms. These truths, I believe, must be admitted, disadvanfcigeoiis as they are to the prospect of bringing the diagnosis ot syphilis to a final settlement, so as to cn.ible the writer to describe the disease with accuracy, antt ihe practitioner to recognise and treat it with cer- tainty. The first essential step to the elucidation of this subject, however, is undoubtedly the su - version of every doctrine relative to it, wlncii is repugnant to general experience. The same tacts, which may render it necessary for Mr. Carm.d.ae to retract some of his inferences and ;yhich fac« were first established, beyond all doubt or possi^ bility of successful contradiction, ^y. partial, disinterested, and extensive '"''^f \ made in the hospitals .f the British arm), ^^oum