326 NECROSIS. which circumscribe it can hardly be distinguished. This diffusion of the swelling is the greater, in pro- portion as the diseased bone is more deeply buried in soft parts: it may extend along the course of the affected bone, or even over the whole limb. The swelling comes on at the very beginning of the disorder, and continues to increase, until the matter which it contains finds its way out, when the evacuation is followed by a partial subsidence of the tumour. The swelling is sometimes also combined with oedema, especially in persons whose constitutions have been impaired by the severity of the disease, the violence of their sufferhigs, and the long and profuse discharge. When the inflammation is acute, purulent matter of good quality soon collects in the vicinity of the necrosis. In the contrary case, the pus forms slowly, and is thinner and less healthy. The abscess which accompanies a necrosis naturally soon bursts when it arises from intense inflammation, and is situated near the skin, which is itself inflamed. But, when the bone is sur- rounded by a great thickness of soft parts, and the inflammation is chronic, the quantity of matter daily increases, the cavity which it occupies be- comes larger and larger, and considerable pressure is made by the abscess on every side. The bones and tendinous expansions resist for a long while the progress of the matter; but the cellular tissue yields and sinuses form, which sometimes run to a great distance from the seat of the disease, espe- cially when the abscess lies under a fascia. _ It was formerly supposed, that, in necrosis, the matter was invariably sanious, acrid, and fetid, but Weidmann has exposed the error of _ this opinion. He had often seen abscesses, arising from necrosis, discharge a whitish, inodorous, thick pus, absolutely devoid of any bad quality whatso ever. He had particularly met with this m patients, whose necroses proceeded from an external cause, or an internal one of a slight nature, and whose health was generally good. (De Necrosi Osstum, p 16.) If, says the same excellent writer, we sometimes find in practice the matter dark-coloured and fetid, we must not ascribe it to the affection of the bone, but to the weakness and bad state of the patient's health. Under the same circumstances, common sores of the soft parts would also discharge pus of a bad quality. . [After the abscesses have been discharging tor some time, they begin to contract, become lined with a thin smooth membrane, and show no dis- position to close, forming sinuses; they then receive the appellation offsiulce. The dead pieces of bone, whether loose or adherent, act as foreign bodies, and prevent the cicatrization of these openings, as also does the pus, which is formed during the pro- gress of the disease, and is discharged through them. Sometimes these fistulous sinuses, if very extensive, will not heal, although the necrosed bone has come away, because the amount of secretion from the membrane lining their surfaces is so great as to prevent contact of their walls, and adhesion there- fore cannot take place.] The fistula; vary in number; but, they are fewer in proportion as the disease is slighter. In an ex- tensive necrosis, several of these openings are seen, either near together, or separated by considerable spaces; and, wlien the necrosis affects tlie whoL circumferenoe of the bone, the fistulas in the integu- ments occur on every side of the limb. The inflammatory fever, which always attends a severe case of necrosis, and is sometimes accom- panied with exceedingly violent symptoms, usually abates when matter is formed, and the patient is then subject to another fever of a low hectic type. This takes place in the decline of the disease, is the effect of the long continued profuse suppuration, gradually reduces the patient, and at length, in the more severe cases, will bring him to the grave, unless the timely removal of the sequestrum be effected either by nature or art. Let us next endeavour to trace the signs, by which we may not only ascertain the presence of the disease, but its modifications. In the first place, we should make ourselves acquainted with every thing, which may have predisposed to the disorder; as for instance, what accidental circumstances have occurred, and what symptoms followed them. We should also inquire into any previous treatment, which may have been adopted; for, as Weidmann truly re- marks, injudicious remedies have caused many a necrosis, that would not have occurred at all, if the case had been properly treated, or confided to nature. The kind of inflammation, with which the dis- ease commences, may afford grounds for suspecting that necrosis will happen: it is generally slow and deeply seated, passing through its stages tardily, whilst the attendant symptoms are severe. The skin retains its natural colour along while; but, at length, exhibits a reddish or livid discoloration. The matter does not reach the skin, till a varying, though often a long time has elapsed, and when the abscess bursts,'the inflammatory symptoms are slow in subsiding.' When the inflammation is acute, the patient suffers intolerable pain for a considerable period. There are also other symptoms of a necrosis; viz. the swelling which accompanies the inflam- mation, is situated along the course of the bone, or rather the bone is included in the tumour, so that its outline cannot be defined : the swelling is at the same time very difiiised, the matter lies deeply, and can only be felt in an obscure way: the tissues covering it are soft and quaggy the skin is often oedematous. The fistulous openings, beneath which a necrosis is situated, discharge a large quantity of matter ; their edges are hard and bent inward ; they are surrounded by granu- lations which are either yellowish and pale, or else of an intense red colour; these are generally large and flabby, though not very sensitive; sometimes, liowever, they are extremely painful, and will bleed on the slightest touch. [These pale fungous granulations, around the margin of a fistula, are highly characteristic of the presence of diseased bone. Sometimes the integu- ments over a necrosed bone will perish from the violence of the inflammatory action, leaving an unhealthy ulcer, which dischiirgcs freely a thin ill- formed pus, is often very sensitive, and does not heal until the dead bone is removed.] If the patient's general health be good, the sup- puration from the fistula; and ulcers, situated over diseased bones, continues white and laudable; but it deviates from these properties, in proportion as the health becomes impaired. _ , , ,^ .1,, Neither is the black colour, imparted to the dressings of ulcers, a circumstance, which necessa- rily indicates the existence of necrosis; for it may