OVAR] owing to conipi'cssion of the lungs and displiicemeiit of the heart by the tumor. The incision was made through the abdominal walls, the trocar pushed into and fixed in the C3'St, and the fluid emptied without the patient having been aware of anything but the application of the spray. The diaphragm having somewhat descended after_ the evacuation of the cyst, chloroform could be given with safety, and the operation was terminated under its influence. No peculiarities but those usually due to the effects of the anfesthetic are generally ob- served during the progress of the operation unless it becomes necessary to sponge out the peritoneal cavity. Then a sudden depression of pulse and respiration, and cold clammy perspiration, often require careful watching, but the patient will soon rally under proper attention, and the narcotism may be safely continued. It is advisable to keep the patient unconscious, until she is placed in bed, after the wound has been dressed. The instru- ments and all other traces of the operation should be removed before she becomes conscious. Some surgeons object to the use of chloroform in this operation, being afraid of its depressing •effects on the system, sometimes observed after its administration, and of the distressing sickness which it is apt to produce. Sickness and retching after ovariotomy are, however, not always caused bj' this anaesthetic, but are frequently the symptoms of more or less serious pathological conditions, which will be described when speaking of the after-treatment. The operator places himself to the right side of the patient, so as to have her abdomen before him^ To his left hand, at the same side of the table, stands one assistant whose duty it is to guide the syphon-tube, and to support the weight of the tumor while the pedicle is secured and the .tumor separated, and who is ready to tie any vessel which may need a ligature. Facing the operator, to the left side of the table, stands another assistant, whose chief duty it is to hold and keep in apposition the edges of the wound after the peritoneal cavity has been opened, so as to prevent the escape of the intestines or other viscera. Another assistant at the foot of the table, steadies the patient's legs. The nurse is first in charge of the sponges and afterwards of the lint and plaster. The first step in ovariotomy is The Incision of Hut Abdominal Wall. The place of preference for the incision is generally the linea alba or a line parallel to the outer border of the right or left rectus muscle. The incision in the median line offers the greatest advantages. No large vessels are in danger, and it answers for the extirpation of either or of both ovaries. But differences of opinion on this subject refer both to the situation and to the length of the in- cision. Some of the earlier operators incised the abdominal wall in a line from the sternum to the symphysis pubis, the length of the opening being modified by the size of the tumor. This incision was recommended as offering the advan- tage of rendering the operation speedy and easy, and permitting the surgeon to see and to avoid the abdominal viscera. The Americans named it very appropriately the "great operation." The other method is that of William Ilimter, Called in America the " minor operation." In it iiM incision of two to three inches in length is only VOL. JI. DTOMY. 417 gradually enlarged during the 'progress of the operation. In the present day neither course is exclusively followed, but the length of the incision is varied in proportion to the size of the tumor and the re- quirements of each individual case. Different operators have chosen different places for the incision. Mr. King, of Saxmundham, made in one case " a division of about three inches through the integument and the linea semilunaris of the left side a little above a line drawn across the abdomen from the umbilicus." In another operation " a vertical incision was made through the parietes of the abdomen and the linea semi- lunaris to the extent of about seven or eight inches," and the wound was afterwards " enlarged in the direction of the lumbar vertebras for about four inches." In a third case he made a similar incision, which towards the termination of the extraction had to be enlarged to about three inches. {Lancet, 1836-7, vol. i. p. 586.) Dr. W. L. Atlee describes an operation in the Ameri- can Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. xviii. p. 336, in the following words:—" I made an incision, extending from the symphysis pubis to the middle of the crest of the ilium on the right side. This incision was curvilinear, its convexity presenting downwards. . . , This incision was sixteen or seventeen inches long, and was at once boldly carried down to the surface of the tumor through all the intervening tissues." Dr. C. T. Haartman performed an ovariotomy in the General Hospital at Helsingfort, in which he made an incision five inches long at the left side of the abdomen, which commenced at the lower border of the ribs about two inches above the middle of the crest of the ilium, and continued in a curve about cue and a half inch distant from the anterior and superior spine of the ilium, almost parallel with Poupart's ligament, and terminated at the external border of the rectus. (Schmidt's Jahhuclier, vol. Ixix. p. 336.) Dr. J. J. Buhring {Die Heilung der Eierstoch- Geschwulsle, Berlin, 1848) made an incision at the external border of the right external oblique, from the false ribs to the crest of the ilium, two inches from the anterior superior spine backwards, till the yellow shining peritoneum became visible. Dr. Ephraira McDowell, of Danville, Kentucky, made an incision about three inches from the rectus muscle on the left side, nine inches in length, parallel with the fibres of the above- named muscle. {London M&lical Gazette, 18'14-S, vol. i. p. 745.) These varieties and modifications of incisions will, however, hardly find many imitators, and those surgeons who have performed the greatest number of operations are now agreed that the incision should be made in or near the median line. It should not pass nearer than two inches to the symphysis pubis and may commence just below the umbilicus. It luay be extended upwards to the left of and around the umbilicus, and continued along the median line as far as may be necessary. The round ligament of the liver passes from the umbilicus slightly diago- nally up wards and backwards towards the right side, and would therefore be liable to be wounded if the incision were carried to the right of the umbilicus. As cases arc on record in which the embryonal umbilical vein (the round ligament of the liver after birth) had not boon entirely obliterated, but