VENEREAL DISEASE. 953 Ulcers of the Tongue.—Dr. Colles acknowledges the diHiculty of distinguishing a venereal from a cancerous ulcer of the tongue. Both, he says, are attended with considerable hardness, but the hard- ness around the cancerous sore appears to him to be more of the stony kind. If there be a slightly elevated narrow ring of considerable hardness, in- cluding an ulcer, with a surface so clean as at first view to resemble an ulcer which is about to gra- nulate, Dr. CoUes would declare it to be unequivo- cally cancerous. In all doubtful cases, he recom- mends giving the patient the chance of benefit from slight ptyalism. (See Tongue.) A venereal ulcer on the dorsum of the tongue, anterior to its base, is generally of a circular form, as large as a fourpenny piece, and has the characters of a secondary venereal ulcer of the skin. {Colles, op. cit. p. 159.) According to my experience, by far the greater number of ulcers of the tongue in venereal pa- tients are effects of immoderate salivations. Dr. Colles notices the superficial ulcerations of this organ sometimes met with after a course of mer- cury. They may be known by the history of the case ; " for those ulcers, which are not venereal, will be found to make their appearance in twelve or eighteen days from the time the mercury has been laid aside—indeed before we can be assured that the action of this medicine on the mouth has entirely ceased," (P. 160.) Ulcers of the Nose.—According to the observa- tions of Dr. Colles, ulcers of the alse nasi sometimes begin in the angle between the nose and cheek from a cluster of papular eruptions. Whenever such an ulcer shows a tendency to phagedena, or sloughing, it should be treated with some active caustic. I believe all practical surgeons will aa:ree with Dr. Colles, that the characters of a venereal ulcer in the nostril, distinguishing it from scrofu- lous ozsena, are unknown, unless it be said that the latter is often preceded by scrofulous sore-throat, which has terminated in the formation of tense sil- very cicatrices. This gentleman does not regard as a venereal aff.ction "those instances of ulceration of the nose in which we discover in the septum nasi, about a quarter of an inch from its anterior extremity, an opening through the septum" of a circular form, and having slightly ulcerated edges. It may remain for years precisely in the same state. The latter seems to be Dr. Colles'a chief reason for not considering the case venereal. I agree with him. that we should not pronounce an ozaena to be venereal, unless we find it combined with some other decidedly syphilitic symptoms, and its his- tory interwoven with other secondary eifects ol the disease. Lotions of creosote, chloride of soda, or of the nitrate of silver, and the exhibition of iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla, constitute generally the most successful practice for these aflFectinns of the septum nasi. Venerml Iritis.—For a description of this affec- tion, and the treatment of it, I refer to the article Iritis. Tertiary Venereal Ulcers of the Skin are well known generally to assume a circular shape, and to present a foul, tawny or yellow appearance. When such a sore begins to prepare for the healing pro- cess, it usually becomes clean first in the centre ; " then granulations arise in that situation, and ex- tend towards the circumference, where the skin forms a deep edge, between which and the granu- lations is a ring of the same yellow ulceration as appeared when first the surface of the ulcer was uncovered. In proportion as the ulcer proceeds, the granulations encroach on this yellow ring, until at length they reach the edge of the ulcer. The central granulations, to a large extent, will have actually cicatrised before the entire surface of the ulcer is clean and healthy. These ulcers are also remarkable for the strong tendency which the central granulations have to assume a fungoid cha- racter ; so that, unless particular care be taken to prevent it, they will leave when healed a very high and prominent cicatrix. The ulcers also often heal from one side only, so as to resemble a kidney- bean or horseshoe." (Abr. Colles, op. cit. p. 167.) We meet with tertiary venereal ulcers of the skin very commonly in persons who have undergone repeated salivations ; and then the question arises whether mercury should be resorted to again, or not. If the patient be in very reduced and de- ranged health, I should say, let mercury at all events be postponed, and try other means. I have cured hundreds of these ulcers with the iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla, aided by judicious local treatment; but, when the health has been improved by these or other remedies, then mild doses of mercury may be employed, if neces- sary, and will often be found to complete the cure with great facility; whereas, if they had been re- sorted to at first, they would have converted some of the sores into phagedenic diseases. When disease of the osseous system accompanies these ulcers, I should feel very reluctant to administer mercury at all. In general, mild dressings answer best; but, in obstinate cases, creosote, nitrous acid, or nitrate of silver; lotions, fumigations, with the red sulphuret of mercury; a solution of the chloruret of soda, or of the extract of henbane or opium, may be tried. A tertiary venereal ulcer sometimes forms on the edge of the eyelid, and extends down some way along the raucous surface of the part. In order to check the extension of such a sore with as little delay as possible, caustic should be freely applied. Although I have advocated only the moderate use of mercury in the treatment of venereal ulcers, many practitioners aim at producing what is termed a full mercurial action. Dr. Colles asks, " Is it not generally the case that, about the seventh or eighth day, when mercury ordinarily be- gins to act sensibly on the system, that we see a change apparently for the worse in the condition of the ulcers ? This continues for two or three days longer, viz. until the mercurial action comes to be fully established; and then we find a decided improvement take place in the ulcers. Let us not, therefore, determine upon laying aside the use of mercury in cases of venereal ulcer.s, until we have seen what effect this medicine shall have when it has come into full action." (Op. cit. p. 172.) I in- troduce this remark as affording a view not un- commonly entertained and acted upon; but which I have often seen lead to fatal results. I should say, let the maxim here inculcated be at all events the last for adoption, and only when other plans, less injurious to the health, fail in ctuing the ulcers. Nmles,nnd Venereal Ajfectimis of the Pcriostemii, Fasciw, and Liyaments.—The bones arc amongst tlie parts which constitute the second order, or tiiose