URINARY CALCULI. 8.16 carbonate of ammonia. Any irritating cause, such as calculus, enlarged' prostate, or urethral stric- ture, may therefore, in this way, produce alkaline urine and phosphatic deposits. " Dr. Owen Rees has pointed out that undue acidity of t-he urine even may have the same effect, by exciting inflam- mation and increased mucous secretion, and that in such Crises alkaline urine may be advantage- ously treated by alkaline remedies, to remove the acidity which was its original cause.] Triple Phospliate of Ahuinesia and Ammonia Pfposiis and Calculi. — Dr. Wnllaston describes tiie form of the crystals of this salt as being a short trilateral prism, having one angle a right angle, and the other two equal, terminated by a pyramid of three or six sides. These crystals, as Dr. Marcet has explained, are but very sparingly soluble in water, but very readily in most, if not all, the acids; and, on precipitation, they reassume the crystallised form. From the solutions of these crystals in muriatic acid, sal ammoniac may be obtained by sublimation. Solutions of caustic alkalies disengage ammonia from the triple salt, the alkali conii)ining with a portion of the phos- phi)ric acid. The existence of tliis calculus in the intestines of animals was first pointed out by Fourcroy; but, its being a constituent part of some urinary calculi of the human subject was originally discovered by Dr. Wolliston. {P/dl. Trans. 1797.) According to Dr. Piout, this species of calculus is always nearly white; its surface is commonly un- even, and covered with minute shining crystals. Its texture is not laminated, and it is easily broken and reduced to powder. In some rare in- stances, however, it is hard .md compact, and, when broken, exhibits a crystalline texture, and is more or less transparent. Calculi, composed en- tirely of the phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, are rare, but specimens, in which they constitute the predominant ingredient, are by no means un- common. (^Prout, p. 86.) When the blowpipe is applied, an aunuoniacal smell is perceived, the fragment diminishes in siz-', and if the heat be strongly urged, it ultimately undergoes an imper- fect fusion, being reduced to the state of phospliale of magnesia. (P. 69.) [Clusters of acicular crj'stals of this salt, adhering together by one ex- tremity, so as to give the appearance of rosettes, are sometimes rnet with; also stellar or foliaceous crystals. (See Golding Bird, hoc. cit. p. 283.) The latter form may be produced artificially by the addition of ammonia to healthy urine.] One fact of great importance, respecting this species of calculus, is mentioned by Sir A. Cooper in his lec- tures; viz., that it is particularly liable to be re- produced after lithotomy, and therefore, until the patient's diathesis has been corrected by medical treatment, he cautions surgeons not to perform the operation. In cases of this description, he says, a substance like mortar is discharged from the Lladder, and tlie urine is very fetid. Bone Earth, Phosphate of Lime Calculus.—The presence of phosphate of lime in urinary calculi had been mentioned by Bergniann and others, ■wiien Dr. Wollaston first ascertained that some calculi are entirely composed of it. From the in- vestigations of Dr. Wollaston, it appears that this substance sometimes, though rarely, composes tlie entire calculus, but that, in general, it is mixed with other ingredients, particularly with uric acid first case, the calculus is described as being of "a pale brown colour, and so smooth as to appear polished. When sawn throufih, it is found very regularly laminated, and the laminae, in general, adhere so slightly to each other as to separate with ease into concentric crusts. It dissolves entirely, though slowly, in muriatic or nitric acid. Exposed to the flame of the blowpipe, it is at first slightly charred, but soon becomes perfectly white, retain- ing its form, until urged with the utmost heat from a common blowpipe, when it may be completely fused. It appears to be more fusible than the phosphate of lime, which forms the basis of bone; a circumstance which Dr. Wollaston ascribes to the latter containing a larger quantity of lime. {PhU. Trans. 1797.) It appears from the investigations of Dr. Prout that the inner membrane of the bladder, when affected with chronic inflammation, may secrete a quantity of adhesive mucus con- taining phosphate of lime. A portion of the phos- phate of lime, thus produced, mixed probably with some of the triple phosphate from the urine, is depo- sited on the lymph, and thus the incrustation Uikes place. (See Brodie on tlie Urinary Organs, p. 224.) Fusible Calculus.—Mr. Tennant first discovered that this substance was different from the lithic acid, and that, when urged by the blowpipe, in- stead of being nearly consumed, a large part of it melted into a white vitreous globule. The nature of the fusible calculus was afterwards more fully investigated and explained by Dr. Wollaston. [Phil. Trans. 1797.) According to the excellent description lately given of this calculus by Dr. Marcet, it is conmionly whiter and more friable than any other species. It sometimes resembles a mass of chalk, leaving a white dust on the fingers, and separates easily into layers, or laminae, the in- terstices of which are often studded with sparklmg crystals of the triple phosphate. At other tmies, it appears in the form of a spongy and very friable whitish mass, in which the laminated structure is not obvious. Calculi of this kind often acquire a very large size, and they are apt to mould them- selves in the contracted cavity of the bladder, as- suming a peculiarity of form which Dr. Marcet has never observed 'in any of the other species of calculi, and which consists in the stone terminatmg, at its broader end, in a kind of peduncle, corre- sponding to the neck of the bladder. The chemica composition of the lusible calculus is a mixture ot the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia and of the phosphate of lime. These two salts, winch, when separate, are infusible, or nearly so, when mixed together and urged by the blowpipe, easily run into a vitreous globule. The composition of this substance, s:.ys Dr. Marcet, may be shown in various ways. Thus, if it be pulverised and aceuc acid poured upon it, the triple "ysta s wdl be readily dissolved, while the phosphate ot lime «. 1 scarcely be acted upon ; after which the murm c acid will readily dissolve '""^'l f.^'^PS' leaving a small residue, consisting of l"'"'^ a portion of which is always found mixed with the fusible calculus. , , ,„ „f It is also remarked by Dr. Marcet, tha many ol the calculi which form round extraneous bodies m the bladder, are of the fusible kind. Cahbonate of Lime CALct'HJS. This substance is not enumerated by Dr. Marcet "iui otner ineredients, particularly Willi unu .n-m i auu;>i..i..v^... -,„„„,,]:. i,„t. and phosphate of magnesia and ammonia. In the | as entering in the composition of urinary cacuii,