INFLAMMATION, 7i corpuscles in an inflamed part cxliibit no greater tendency to adhere tofretiier than in blood of uninflamed parts, and when withdrawn from the body the corpuscles of the former behave them- selves exactly as in ordinary blood. This would point to the inference that stasis is due not so much to the corpuscles themselves becoming more adhesive, but rather to some change in the walls of the capillary vessels containing the corpuscles, or in the tissues outside them. Ryneck's re- searches favour that conclusion. He first repeated a well-known experiment by H. Weber {Muller's Archiv, ia52) which is as follows:—The thigh of a frog is tightly ligatured and the web of the corre- sponding foot placed under the microscope. To this a drop of ammonia is applied, whereupon the irrita- tion set up is manifested by a rush of blood cor- puscles from all parts to the irritated or inflamed spot; and,aUhough the circulation has been stopped, the accumulation of corpuscles characteristic of stasis speedily results. If now the ligature be re- moved the circulation is again set up, and stasis remains only at the irritated spot. During the pro- cess of the experiment inflammation may be set up in the other and unligatured web in the same way, and by comparing the two the phenomena of stasis in either will seem identical. It is plain from this that circulation of the blood is not necessary for the production of stasis. Ryneck next sought to get rid of the living corpuscles altogether, and to substitute for the natural blood a fluid con- taining visible yet dead corpuscles, bland and un- irritating. Such he found in the fat globules of fresh milk, which he tried to inject, but when it reached the heart the heart stood still. This he found was due to the milk turning acid He mixed some soda with the milk, but still the heart stood still before all the blood was removed from the body. So he tried an artificial circu- lation. He inserted a gbiss tube into the bulbus aorticus, and this, by means of an 'ndm-rubber tube he connected with a receptacle filled with warm and fresh cow's milk. At the same time he opened the sinus venosus, whereupon, by elevat- imr the vessel containing the milk, an artificial circulation could be set up. If now, as before, the web was irritated with ammonia, the phenomena of stasis were promptly produced, and the oil glo- bules of the milk gathered together at the spot and formed greyish cords similar to those produced by blood, although, of course, the milk globules were devoid of life. When, instead of milk, the de- fibrinated blood of pigs or oxen was used, the same phenomena were observed, only the lines or cords were red instead of greyish. Thus it was shown that the corpuscles natural to the ammal were not necessary for the production of the phe- nomena of inflammation, or at all events, of stasis Next, the author tried to change the walls ot the vessels by some chemical agent, which would kill them without altering them. First, ho pie- pared an apparatus, whereby he was able to send into the vessels serialim. three diflerent lu ds, the one succeeding the other without interN-al, the an - mal being arranged andcurarized as be orc^ 1 ir t then, he thoroughly washed out the blood-ves 1 with a solution of common salt (1 grain to J W c. centimetres), till in the web under the^ micio- Bcnpe, no corpuscles—red or white—could be seen, and the salt fluid ran clear from the sinus venosus. Next he turned a slop-cock, stopped the salt solu- tion, and turned on a solution of the same strength as before of chromic acid, of tannin, of sulphate of copper, or of gold chloride as the case might be, varying the substance with each experiment. This he allowed to flow but a moment—however it was enough to provoke convulsive movements of the voluntary muscles in the animal. The stop-cock was again turned, and again salt solution was allowed to flow, so as to wash away the irritiint substance out of the vessels. Finally a third fluid was admitted, and defibrinated mammalian blood made its way into the vessels. If, now, ammonia was applied to the top of the frog's foot, no result followed; the vascular walls were dead—yea, ammonia might be applied so freely as to afirect the red corpuscles in the vessels in the same fashion it does outside the body, causing them to swell up, and yet stasis did not follow. But if, while the salt solution was yet flowing, and before the vascu- lar walls were killed, an irritant was applied, even with this an outward current of fluid was produced sufficient to produce swelling betwixt the frog's phalanges. The results of these researches seem to indicate as clearly as may be that stasis does not arise from changes in the blood corpuscles, but either from changes in the vascular walls, or in the tissues beyond; and it is difficult to reconcile the results of the last-mentioned experiment with the idea that the change occurs in the surrounding tissues, for it would be difficult to account for the accumulation of a salt solution in the tissues, except it were due to an unnatural permeability of the vascular walls. One result follows from these researches which is very emphatically expressed by Strieker (quoted in Med. Times July 2, 1870). The doctrines, which I have called i?istorstiliaiism, may be combined with texiuralism. The teachings of Rokitanskj', Hughes Bennett, Lebert, C. J. B. Williams and Addison, respecting exudations, are not incompatible with those of Virchow. Besides this harmonious reconciliation, so un- usual amongst physiologists, there is but little to add to this aspect of the history of the inflamma- tory process, and the only other authority we need appeal to is Dr. Burden Sanderson's exceedingly able article on the process of inflammation con- tained in the fifth voWm&oi Holmes's Spstcm of Surgery, 1871, and Lectures on Practical Physio- logy {Med. Times and Gaz., vol. i., 1871). Hia " conclusions " which give as clear an idea of the subject as can be communicated in a few words, tend to rehabilitate vascular action, along with iuterstitiaiism, and texturalism. They are as follows : , . , • • r II " 1. In every inflammation which attains its ruU development, the changes which manifest them- selves on the inflamed part are of three kinds, distinguished from each other according to the organs which are concerned in their production. They are (1) effects of disorder of the vascular nerves and centre; (2) effects of alteration of the properties of the living walls of the capillaries; or (3) effects of the stimulation of the living cells by transudation of liquor sanguinis. " 2. Of these three orders of phenomena, tlie second only can be regarded as absolutely essen- tial to the existence of iiiilammation, which may therefore in the strictest sense be said to have its seat in and about the veins and capillaries, it being there that the earliest mid most constant effects of irritation or injury manifest themselves.