URINARY . iBSCESSES, ETC. 839 ill tlio scrotum, iind rarely they occur in the groins or thighs, hut are always associated with siiiuo fistulous canal connected with tiie urethra. Occasionally acute urinarj' abscess in tiie perineum is met with, but this is rare ; generally they are very slow and chronic in their course. Acute abscess is not to be confounded with ex- travasation, tlie signs of which are ([uite different. (See ExTRAV.ASATioN opUitiNE.) VVhcH acuto ab- scess is in process of formation, shivering and other inari<s of general fever usually announce the fact. The symptoms of prostatitis have usually preceded tliis form of the complaint. (See Prostatitis, Acute.) Add to this,excessive pain and difficultyin micturition are experienced ; the perineum is tense and hot, the prostate extremely tender. If the matter shows any signs of coming forward it should lie evacuated by an incision at once. But in the case of chronic perineal abscess, the swelling slowly increases and points, frequently bursting by itself, since it is often not very painful before the surgeon sees the case. Matter is discharged, and not until two or three days afterwards urine passes through the opening, at first in small quantities, subsequently more is passed, and at each time of making water, and thus a urinary fistula is esta- Llished. The treatment consists in rest and poulticing, and in dilating the stricture which has occasioned the abscess. This done, in almost all cases the opeiiing gradually ceases to discharge pus, and soundly heals. Some perineal abscesses communicate with diseased prostate, and result from disease of that organ instead of from stricture of the urethra. These are far less amenable to treatment, and generally resist it, becoming fistulous passages, which will be presently referred to.] Urine, Extravasation op, [This accident is- apt to happen during retention of urine from stricture which is permitted to remain unrelieved during a considerable period of time. The urethra beliind the stricture ulcerates and gives way, permitting the distended bladder to drive its contents into the cellular interspaces of the scrotum and abdomen. The urine does not in these cases pass downwards into the thighs, or backwards into the perineum, unless the rupture takes place be- hind the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, which is extremely rare, but upwards into the Cellular tissue under the skin of the abdomen, since the junction of the fasciaa at Poupart's liga- ment prevents its descending in the dircctiims named. The consequences of extravasation are extremely disastrous. Inflammation is set up in the track of the urine, and the areolar connections of the skin ami suiijacent tis^ufs are broken up ; it is an unproiiitinus sign if the; corpus spongiosum have become infiltrated : a dark spot on the glans penis marks its occurrence, and the progress of the g.mgrene which has resulted ; when this happens, there have usually lieen circumstances of great neglect. The general condition is always depressed, ami unless speedy relief be alforded, a fatal result must inevitably and rapidly follow. The principal local signs are coupideiable distension of the parts involved, discoloration of the integument, the hue of which varies between dusky red and purple, and, in an advanced condiiiou, pressure or, the surface by the finger occasions emphysematous crackling, from the presence of gaseous products in the interstices of the cellular tissues. At a late period the patient is frequently in a state of low muttering delirium, with black tongue, and pulse almost indistinguishable. In these circumstances no time may be lost. Free incision must be made into the distended parts, on each side tlie median line, in order to give vent to the extravasated urine, and provide for its future passage from the bladder. Foetid urine, puriform matter, and decomposed tissues come away, and sometimes in surprising quantity. Innnediate interference with the stricture is un- necessary, and no catheter need be passed for a day or two. Stimulants, morphia, and good fluid nourishment are generally required in full quantity. However favourably the patient progresses, a considerable amount of sloughing must often take place ; and often a large portion of the scrotum is lost, exposing one or both testicles. During this process the removal of the products of decomposi- tion and the cleanliness of the parts must be pro- vided for. Antiseptic applications frequently changed, as yeast, or beer-ground poultices, linseed- meal poultices, with a few drops added of the chlorides of lime or soda, or of the permanganates, promote these indications. If the extravasation have taken place between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, a firm, hard, and deep-seated swelling may sometimes, but not always, be detected in the perineum. This is to he at once freely opened. If it occur behind the fascia altogether, but this is very rare, the urine finds its way upwards around the base of the bladder, and a fatal result is inevitable.] Urinary Fistula. [A urinary fistula is an abnormal passage leading from some part of the urinary track to the external surface, and transmitting, at times, more or less urine. The external openings of the fistula are generally seen at the surface of the perineum and scrotum, which parts are often traversed by them in circuitous routes ; less frequently they appear in the groins, the upper part of the thighs, the nates, and even above the pubic symphysis. In most cases they are due to previously existing urinary abscess, or to lesions produced by extra- vasation of urine. Under the term of Urinaiy Fistulas all these conditions are commonly included • some of them may be regarded as simple and easily cured, others as complicated, and requiring much time, care, and perseverance, in order to attain a successful result. Some are merely narrow chan- nels through nearly healthy parts ; others pass through structnres greatly indurated, augmented in size and density by repealed deposits of plistio matter, and more or less deformed; and sometimes connected with cavities secreting pus and detaining in their interior some quantity of the urinary se- cretion. The external orifices of the fistulous passage may be few or numerous ; in the latter case being the outlets of sinuous and branching channels springing in process of time from tlio original track, and giving exit to a number of snuill streams when the act'of micturition is per- formed ; and lastly there is a class of unnatural passages or openings into the urethra, which have their origin in loss of substtmce by sloughing from