823 URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. worthy of remark that the induration is generally thicker at the lloor than on the upper aspect of the urethra. Such may be regarded as "indurated aunuhir " strictures. In a few instances, some of the natural rugae of the urethra seem to be adherent, or even fused together, for the space of a few lines in length. In very rare cases we find something resembling a cicatri-x in the form of a patch of indurated tissue, around which the mucous membrane is puckered, in lines more or less radiating from it; the amount of contraction appearing to correspond with the ex- tent of previous loss of substance from some cause or anotlier. But occasionally the contraction ex- tends longitudinally for a considerable distance, and the canal is narrowed, and its walls thickened on all sides, for a length of one or more inches. In these cases the induration extends deeply into the surrounding tissues, involving sometimes the entire substance of the corpus spongiosum, and giving rise to some of the most obstinate and undilatable strictures. In other instances, the urethra is irregu- larly' contracted throughout almost its entire course; and every degree of variation is to be met with, between the condition in which the only obstacle within it is a small fold of mucous mem- brane, and that in which almost its whole length is more or less affected. Occasionally several separate strictures may be observed in the same subject. John Hmiter re- cords an instance in which he met with six stric- tures in one urethrii. Lallemand mentions one with seven ; Colot saw one with ei(/hl; Ducanip says there are rarely more than two, but that he has seen four ox five. Boyer thought three could exist together. Rokitansky speaks of four, and does not record a higher number as having come under liis own personal observation. My own re- searches have not led me to recognise numerous independent strictures in one urethra. Three, or at the most four, distinct contractions is the highest number I have been able to discover, but such in- stances are very rare. A few examples of urethra greatly contracted, from the meatus externus ahnost to the membranous portion, are in existence ; but these do not exhibit a multiplicity of strictures so mucli as general thickening and coarctation of the canal. The elements and seal of Stricture.—Their con- sideration may be advantageously entered upon together. The first etfect of inflammation upon the mucous membrane is a swelling or thickening of it, caused by engorgejuent of the vessels. Then exu- dation of fluid takes place into its substance and into the tissues beneath, presenting the condition which exists in the mere intiamniatory stricture, one of the transient forms of the affection because resolution readily follows. But when the morbid state per- sists, a firm fibrous tissue is formed in and around the canal, which has the ellect of gluing th(! nuicous niembiane to the subnuicous tissue, infiltrating the meshes of the latter, and even involv- ing the investing fibrous cuat of the corpus spon- giosum itself; while repeated or long-continued attacks of inflammation may cause it to extend throughout the entire thickness of that body, ren- dering it tough and dense to an extent, in some rases, almost beyond belief. Sir Charles Bell de- scribes the strictured part, in one of his prepara- tions (now in the Museum of the College of Sur- geons, Edinburgh, 2169 xxxii. G), as being " us hard as a board," On laying open a strictured urethra after death, we shall accordingly discover that the structure in which the constriction itself is seated is by no means always the same. It may be in rare cases almost confined to the mucous membrane of the urethra itself, although most commonly a few transverse bands of whitish fibres are seen beneath, encircling the urethra and narrowing it as if it were tied with thread. When these are cut, the mucous membrane is more or less set free ; hence it is that a stricture which has been exceedingly narrow during life is often less obvious to the eye when the urethra is laid open after death than would have been anticipated. The mucous membrane at the constricted point then appears narrower than the healthy part, but less so than one might have believed from the small calibre verified previous to the section of the urethral wall. In more severe cases the meshes of the sub- mucous cellular tissue are seen to be filled with lymph deposit, the presence of which destroys its elasticity and mobility, implicates the involuntary muscular fibres, which can no longer be traced, and extends to the proper fibrous coat of the spongy body. False Membranes obstrucling the Urethra.—A widely-differing condition to any of those above described has been referred to by some under the title of stricture. Sometimes, but by no means frequently, an exudative deposit upon the surface of the urethral mucous membrane, it is said, causes occlusion of the canal. Instances of this are cer- tainly very rare. Few are on record, nor are many clear examples to be found in our museums. Rokitansky refers to them as follows :—" In very rare cases we find primary croup occurring on the urethral mucous membranes; it induces a ciicum- scribed or a tubular exudation, according to the intensity of the process, and occurs chiefly in children." {Path. Anat. vol. ii. p. 235.) Mr, Hancock states that he has met with two or three instances, but he by no means believes them to be common. M. Alphonse Gu^rin, chirurgien du Bureau central in Paris, carefully examiU'jd 100 cases of diseased urethra after death, of which number about half were affected with stricture, and he asserts that he lias never seen the ''slightest trace of such tissue upon the surface of the mucous membrane; the plastic process has acted either immediately beneath the nmcous membrane, or, in the spimgy tissue of the canal." He adds, " that in none of the numerous cases which he has ex- amined has he found any false membrane on the free surface of the muc<ms membrane. Veyree of Contraction.—Speaking in general terms, the degree of contraction is proportioned to the duration of the complaint, and to the extent of the inflaunnatory action which is set up in the tissues around giving rise to successive deposits within their substance; while the severity of the symptoms, the amount of distress, and the effects on the constitution, are not always, bj- any means commensurate with the amounlof nariowing which exisls. It is very rare indeed to find the urethra altogether impervious during life to the How of urine. However contracted it may be, it still issues either in a very small stream, or by drops. Iletention does not depend on absnlute organic impermeability. It is easy to conceive that when the canal is contracted to n mere pin-hole, the sliglitest cause may operate to occasion total ob-