JOINTS, DISEASES OF. The hciid of tlie bone is a little elevated and advanced, and posteriorlj- a depression is seen over the posterior edge of the glenoid cavity and head of the humerus. The elbow cannot be moved upwards, except by the rotation of the scapula on the trunk. All movements of the shoulder are effected through the medium of the scapula ; the Tvhole arm becomes wasted and weak. When occurring in the lower jaw, Dr. R. W. Smith describes the disease as mostly symmetrical, and gives rise to an enlargement of the condj'les, which can be felt under the zygoma, attended with much pain in opening the mouth, a sensation of crackling or grating in the joint, and some enlarge- ment of the lymphatic glands by the side of the neck. There is much distortion of the face, if one side only is affected, the affected side projecting considerably ; if both joints are involved tlie chin projects, and the entire jaw is drawn forwards. The knee is more frequently affected than any other joint, the ankle very rarely so. When seated in the knee, the tibia gets a peculiar out- ward tendency making the knee fall inwards, and at the same time it is rotated outwards. The patella is turned outwards and lies on the outer condyle. The toes turn inwards, excepting the great toe, which is usually the first affected; it lies crossed over, and on the back of the others. In the treatment of this affection, but little indeed can be done to effect a cure. Rest and the habitual application of warm or stimulating plasters will afford relief; and in many instances the administration of the iodide of potassiuni, with sarsaparilla, will lessen the nocturnal pain. When it fails, the bichloride of mercury has been recommended, either alone, or combined with the iodide of potassium. Dr. R. W. Smith recommends an electuary composed of guaiacum, sulphur, the bitartrate and carbonate of potass, and ginger, with a small quantity of rhubarb ; and Mr. Erichsen offers his testimony in favour of this in some cases. When the disease, however, is once fairly established, and has assumed a very chronic character, nothing can be done except to mitigate the pain by some such means as those recommended, conjoined with rest and careful attention to the general health.] [Chronic Strumous ArlJiriiis : ivMte sivelling, or scrofulous disease of the joints.—The signification of the expression of ivliiie swelling is a very chronic form of arthritis, occurring in scrofulous subjects. This condition has not in many cases any definitive starting-point, but appears slowly to supervene upon some slight injury, as a twist, ora blow, or strain ; at other times it commences with a sub- acute synovitis, assuming its peculiar characters by occurring in a strumous constitution, and is especially liable to happen in children and females. The bones are sometimes, but not always, primarily affected, and when this is the case, as a consequence ulceration takes place in the cartilages covering the articular extremities.] By Mr. Lloyd, scrofulous white-swellings are divided into three stages; the first being that in which the affection is confined to the bono; the second, that in which the external parts become thickened and swelled; and the third being what he names the suppurative stage, attended with ulceration of the cartilages, inflammation of the synovial membrane, and abscesses. {On Scrofula, p. 121.) It was formerly a common notion that, in white swellings, the heads of the bones were always enlarged. Mr. Russell, I believe, is the first writer who expresses an opposite sentiment, and he distinctly declares that lie has never heard or laiowJi of an instance in which tlie tibia was en- larged from an attack of white siuelliyig (p. 37). The inaccuracy of the opinion was afterwards pointed out by Mr. Lawrence to the late Mr. Crowther, and the subject was mentioned in the earliest edition of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery. Deceived by the feel of many diseased joints, and influenced by general opinion, I once supposed that there was generally a regular expansion of the heads of scrofulous bones; but, excepting an occasional enlargement, which arises from spicula of bony matter, deposited on the outside of the tibia, ulna, &c., and which alteration cannot be called an expansion of those bones, for a long time I never met with the head of a bone enlarged in consequence of the disease known by the name of white swelling. I was formerly much in the habit of inspecting the state of the numerous diseased joints which were every year amputated at St. Bartholomew's Hospital ; and though I was long attentive to this point, my searches after a really enlarged scrofulous bone always proved in vain. Nor was there at that period any specimen of an expanded head of a scrofulous bone in Mr. Aber- nethy's museum. Some years ago, however, a specimen of an enlargement of the upper end of the ulna was found and shown to me by Mr. Stan- ley. Mr. Langstaff also had in his possession a knee-joint in which the femur and tibia are much expanded, "the external laminae of the bones not being thicker than wlien the bones are of their natural size, and the cancelli healthy, though of rather greater solidity than naiztral." {Lloyd on Scrofula, p. 148.) However, this last form of disease evidently does not resemble the common scrofulous affection of the heads of the bones. I may add that Mr. Wilson, whose dissections were very numerous, concurs with the best modern writers concerning the rarity of an actual expan- sion of the substance of the heads of the bones. {On the Skeleton, &c. p. 336.) I liave also heard of a few other instances in which the heads of the bones were actually enlarged in cases of white swelling. How- ever, I believe the occurrence is far from being usual. A cursory examination of a diseased joint, even when it is cut open, will not suffice to show that the heads of the bones have not acquired an in- crease of size. In making a dissection of this kind in the presence of a medical friend, I found that even after the joint had been opened, the swelling had every appearance of arising from an actual expansion of the bone.°. The gentleman with me felt the ends of the bones after the in- teguments had been removed, and he coincided with me that the feel which was even now com- municated seemed to be caused by a swelling of the bones themselves; but, on cleaning them, the enlargement was demonstrated to arise entirely Vom a thickening of the soft parts. So unusual, 11! ndeed, is the expansion of the heads of the bones, that the late Mr. Crowther, who paid great atten- tion to these cases, joined Mr. Russell in believing that such a change never happened,—a conclusion