952 VENEREAL DISEASE. suffer pain and difficulty in swallowing, and have a, tliickness of speech, but are sometimes annoyed wiih an .ilmost incessant flow of saliva, which, falling back on the larynx when they lie down, interferes with respiration, and hinders sleep. Another distressing symptom, adverted to by Dr. Colles, is the rejjurgitation of the patient's drink through the nose. " This alarms the patient excessively; we can, however, relieve his anxiety by assuring him that this will cease when the ulcers have healed." (Colles, op. cit. p. 129.) It seems to this experienced surgeon that this kind of treatment has more influence in modi- fying the appearances of venereal sore-thioats, than it -has in those arising from scrofula, or other cachectic states of the constitution. At the same time, he admits that, if mercury be used injudiciously, and in a manner unsiiited to the general health and condition of a patient, it ■will cause more mischief, and more strange changes in venereal ulcers of the throat, if the patient be of a highly scrofulous, or very delicate habit, than if he were of a vigorous and healthy constitution. Yet, as Mr. Carmiehael has explained, we meet with a great variety of venereal sore-throats where not a grain of .nercury has been used. (See Dubl. Journ. of Med. Science, vol. xii. p. 39.) " In a case (says Dr. Colles) where a genuine syphilitic ulcer of the throat has been treated by an irregular, or excessive course of mercury, and has he,aled under this treatment, we shall often find the patient suffer a relapse of sore-throat. The new ulcer, whether it appear in the site of the former one, or whether it occupy some new position, will be found to differ most strikingly from the original ulcer. This appearance, which may be verj' frequently observed, is that of a superficial ulceration, of rather a whitish colour, with a good deal of sur- rounding redness, and some slight degree of swell- ing : in fact, it presents manj' of those characters which might lead some to call it an aphthous ulcer. If we watch the course of this ulcer, we shall fre- quently see that it creeps along from place to place; that, unlees it be seized by phagedena, or slough- ing, it appears to be rather indolent in its nature, and mild in its character. Thns it admits of being healed, or almost healed, by various topical means, assisted, perhaps, by some ionic, or alterative medi- cines." (Id. op. cit. p. 131.) For man}' years I have relinquished the employ- ment of niercmy in all the phagedenic forms of syphilis ; being convinced by experience that, in Buch cases, it is the most dangerous and pernicious of all medicines. I prefer in such cases sarsa- parilla, with iodide of potassium, and a nightly dose of the muriate or acetate of morphia, or of the compound powder of ipecacuanha; and in some, liark and nitric acid; care being taken to apply to the phagedenic ulceration itself lint dipped in the same acid or a strong solution of ni- trate of silver, creosote, or Labarraque's liquor of chloride of soda. The nitric acid,, however, ge- nerally answers best. These cases of sloughing throat are particularly noticed by Dr. Colles. " On inspecting the fauces (lie observes^, we find the entire of the velum, and both tonsils, in a state of sloughy ulceration; and the back of the pharynx appears converted, as it were, into a soft pultaceous mass; inleed, sometimes we see all parts of the throat covered with this soft slough. By rubbing these parts with lint, wrapped round the end of a probe, we asc 'rtain ihat this covering adheres tena- ciously to the surface. The patient is scarcely able to swallow even a sip of the most bland fluid. By day, a constant flow of ropy saliva issues from his mouth, and he complains that, by night, he is not only deprived of sleep by the pain of his throat, but that he is prevented from lying down; for in that position he is in danger of being suffocated by the viscid saliva passing down his throat. His general health is completely broken up ; he is emaciated to an extreme degree; his strength is quite prostrate, pulse extremely quick, and skin hot. In fact, he is in a very high state of fever, which is of the hectic type. When we inquire into the history of such a case, we learn that this unfortunate man had undergone repeated slight courses of mercury, or one or two verj- severe ones, for the cnre of the venereal disease ; that these for a time relieved the symptoms; but that, on desisting from the use of mercury, the disease of the throat had relapsed, and assumed the pre- sent appearances." Dr. Colles maintains, rather in opposition to general belief, that this is precisely one of those cases in which very small doses of mercury will be fonnd of signal service. (Op. cit. p. 133.) With respect to the case brought for- ward to justify this advice, I join Mr. Carmiehael in thinking that the amendment cannot be fairly attributed to merely rubbing in ten grains of mer- curial ointment, for a few nights, while sarsapa- rilla, nitrous acid, and strong local remedies were also employed. (See DM. Joum. of Med. Science, vol. xii. p. 40.) The ten grains of blue ointment, I calculate, were fortunately too small a quantity to do harm. I have never known of any case in which venereal ulceration of the throat occasioned death by producing haraorrhage from the carotid arteries ; but such occurrences are alluded to by Dr. Colles, who also gives an interesting case, in which a portion of the ring of the atlas exfoliated and was voided in a fi t of cough- ing, the patient surviving this event five or six years. {On Ven. Dis. p. 139.) When venereal ulceration of the throat is maWng alarming progress, and by sloughing, or by phagedena, threatens to destroy some important portions of the throat, or to extend to the larynx, Dr. Colles recommends, as the best means of ar- resting the ulceration, the application of the mu- riate of antimony, or other equally pa werfiil liquid caustic : mercurial fumigations, he says, will not produce sensible effects in less than two or three days, and then are apt to excite profuse salivation. My experience will not allow me, however, to believe, with him, that such salivation is almost cer- tain to arrest the further ravages of the ulceration; oii the contrarj-, I have seen the disease mostly aggravated by. it, and this sometimes in a fatal degree. Perhaps, however, Dr. Colles admits enough on this point when he states, that all those cases, which have been profusely salivatca by fumigations, and in which a relapse Has occurred, requiring a fresh use of mercury, will be found very difficult of cure." <0p. cit. p. J*"-; Many ill-conditioned venereal ulcerations ot tne throat are benefited by fumigating the part itse« with the red sulphuret of mercury, or the grey oxide, by means of a proper apparatus ; bui phagedenic ulceration, according to my exper- ence, is more effectually checked by touching it with nitric acid than by any other local appluatiou.