646 " SUPPURATION of the neck, and the axillary, inguinal, and pop- liteal regions. In such caaes, if an early opening be not made, the purulent matter spreads to a great extent in the cellular tissue, and an enor- mous denudation of parts, or separation of them from one another, is apt to ensue. 3. Daily experience teaches the surgeon that abscesses are seriously retarded in their progress to the surface of the body by the intervention of a fascia, or an aponeurosis. These are cases, there- fore, requiring an early opening to be made, in order to prevent the matter from spreading widely in the interstices of the muscles, from detaching the vessels and nerves from their connections, and from forming numerous and extensive sinuses in va- rious directions. Abscesses, under the fasciae of the thigh, arm, forearm, and leg, come under the rule here specified, as well as collections of matter under the palmar and plantar fasciae, and in the sheaths of tendons. Here, as Dupuytren observes, the prac- tice of an incision is warranted as soon as the practitioner perceives oedema of the parts, a broad and undefined swelling of them, the phenomena attending the progress of internal abscesses, and a deep obscure fluctuation, following the ordinary symptoms of inflammation. 4. Abscesses in the parietes of the chest, or abdomen, in the vicinity of a serous membrane, should be opened without delay, in order to pre- vent with certainty the eiFusion of pus inwardly, an occurrence which, though rare, has sometimes happened. Certain abscesses of the neck, formed under the sterno-cleido mastoid muscle, call for an early opening ; because they not only cause a considerable and very painful swelling, but the matter may easily descend towards the clavicle and chest, in the course of the vessels and nerves. 5. Abscesses in parts abundantly supplied with nerves and capillary blood-vessels, and which when inflamed, are accompanied by excessive pain or close confinement or strangulation of the te-xtures, as whitlows, large painful boils, carbuncles, &c. 6. All abscesses producing serious disturbance, or interruption of the functions of very important organs, and thereby endangering life ; as ab- scesses of the throat, or near the larynx, or pha- rynx; abscesses compressing tfie jugular veins, and threatening the patient with apoplexy or suf- focation, &c. In such cases, if the practitioner were to defer making an opening until the swelling had softened, and the abscess had been perfectly formed, the patient would be in great danger of perishing ere such changes had taken place. 7. The generality of chronic abscesses should be opened early, more especially if the means usually resorted to for promoting the absorption of the matter present no prospect of success. By omitting to make an outlet for the matter, we allow the accumulation of it to increase, and sometimes the abscess then becomes dangerous from its mere size, the inner surface of it, or the cyst, acquiring vast magnitude. With respect to chronic abscesses, connected with diseased bone or diseased joints, and collections of purulent fluid in the synovial membranes, some directions will be found in other parts of this work. (See Joints ; Lumbar Abscbss; VBnTEBR.u.) " Those abscesses ouifl't to be opened early (says Professor Thomson) that are situated in parts through which the matter is liable to be- come widely diffused. Tliis is particularly the case with abscesses that are situated on the fore- part of the neck, or in the cavity of the axilla, or by the side of the rectum. When matter is formed in the cavity of the axilla, if it does not speedily obtain an external outlet, it is very liable to pass up towards the clavicle in the course of the axillary plexus of nerves and vessels, or for- wards under the pectoral muscle. I have repeat- edly seen axillary abscess take both of these direc- tions at the same time, forming one of the most painful and difficult cases to treat which occurs in the management of abscesses." Dr. Thomson also considers an early opening proper and neces- sary, when the matter is lodged, as in some cases of whitlow, in the sheaths of the tendons ; when matter is formed under the periosteum ; when it collects under fasciae, or in the vicinity of large arteries, joints, or the greater cavities of the body ; and also when the abscess is deep-seated. (See On Inflammaiion, pp. 336—338.) With respect to making an early opening into abscesses situated near large arteries, I am not aware that any danger of the artery ulcerating, in consequence of the nearness of the pus, really exists. Therefore, some doubts may reasonably be entertained of the soundness of Professor Thom- son's advice in this particular case, as the general rule of opening abscesses near large blood-vessels, in an early stage of the disease, would be objec- tionable on the ground of the practice exposing the vessels themselves to injury. Indeed, this well-informed writer distinctly mentions, in con- sidering the subject in question, that the arteries are not very susceptible of ulcerative absorp- tion. (P. 337.) The making of an opening in certain abscesses should be deferred longer than in common in- stances. Such are collections of purulent matter, situated in internal organs, as the liver, spleen, kidney, and lungs, and producing an outward swelling. Dupuytren deems it most prudent not to open such tumor until the skin is inflamed, the only circumstance which can be depended upon as denoting the formation of those adhesions, by which alone the insinuation of the pus into the great serous cavities will be prevented. Op the Place where the Opening should BE MADE. If a free opening be not required, or making such free opening be not practicable, it is at least proper to make whatever outlet for the matter can be made in a depending situation. By this means, the pus will more readily escape, and all pressure arising from its confinement or lodgment will be prevented. . When circumstances forbid an opening to De made at the most depending part of an abscess, the surgeon should make a freer opening than would otherwise be required, press out the mat- ter as often as necessary, and keep the sides ot the abscess together with a compress and bandage. In some instances, the opening may be convertea into one snfiiciently depending, by keeping the patient in a desirable posture. But abscesses are not always to be opened at the most depending part. The distance between the matter and the skin at tins part .s the con mon reason against the method. If rather deeply situated, and points in 'M'lace vl h is higher than that where the main collection lies,