INFLAMMATION. •B5 fever still continue. In tliis case either a gangrene or some other grievous symptom succeeds; or, if it ■were the crisis of a fever, that incre;iseth, and the Jife of the patient is in great danger. " It is also ill when the matter, instead of re- solving, hard«ns, and the pain ceaseth. It fore- showetli a scirrhous tumour approaching." Erysipelas, though included under the general division of tumours, is distinguished from inflam- mation in this manner:—"An erysipelas is gene- rated of a Iwt serum in the blood, and aifecteth the superficies of the skin with a shining, pale, red or citron colour, without pulsation or circumscribed tumour." It must be borne in mind that in works of that age the words" tumour " and " swelling " are used interchangeably, and without any distinction of meaning such:as we employ. Moreover, the habit of attributing a self-acting, almost volitional power to every force which exerts a real or supposed in- fluence on the body or its tissues, renders the language in many cases obscure, and induces the author to give as explanation nothing but a fanciful personification of the agencies of wiiich he is treating. As an example of this, we may quote Wiseman's description of chilblain. " Per- nio," he says, "is a peculiar swelling, and belongeth to bloud : it raiseth a thick red swel- ling with itching pains in -the hands and feet. .... The outward cause is the nipping of cold air in the winter season, which pierceth the skin, maketh painful swellings, and at the same time shutteth up the pores so as the hu- mour cannot transpire, whereupon it corrupts, and raises little wheals or blisters, which ul- cerate the cuticula, and corrode into the skin, and sometimes deeper, as in kibes (i.e., chilblains on the feet) is frequently seen." Here we have the simple fact that cold, under certain conditions, will produce these local inflammations dressed up in a web of theory in which four different agents, pernio, the cold air, the humours, and the little wheals, all appear to take parts of their own, quite independently of all other influences. And Wiseman is a far more than average specimen of the writers of his time. His style is clear and candid, and his language is such as no medical writer of the present day need disdain to study as a model of logical precision, terseness and force. Some of his descriptions of military surgery, at the battle of Worcester and other lields, now almost forgotten, may still be read with great interest. If space permitted we should gladly give speci- itiens of Wiseman's minute classification of remedies; one example amongst many of the disproportion which mental elaboration bore to the collection of facts, with the imperfect meansof observation then existing. In treating inflammation, the morbid state of the blood, which is the " antecedent cause," is to be opposed by bleeding and purging, but the causa continens or " proximate cause," which is the depraved blood intruded into the inflamed part, must be dealt with by translating it to some other part of the body, or by evacuating it. It may be translated by Revulsives, such as cupping, blister- ing, and other means of " raising a tumour in the contrary part ;" or by Derivuiives, which aro milder means of revulsion to a neighbouring part ; or by Repellavis, which drive away blood, such as Astringent and cold applications in the form of ." Liniments, Cerots, Cataplasms, or Emplasters." The peccant humour may be evacuated by Discus- swn or Hesolulio7i, i.e., by a supposed insensible perspiration, promoted b)' emollients ; or by Sup- puration, which may be promoted by Suppuratives, of which the linseed poultice is the modern repre- sentative. If pus form it may be discharged by knife or caustic ; and when we add that the empty abscess was to be digested, then mundifieil or de- terged, next incarned (or made to granulate), and lastly cicatrised ; and that for each of these natural processes there was a most copious appa- ratus of most complex applications—" digestives," '• detergents," " epulotics," &c.-—we shall give some idea of the meddlesomeness which was the great fault of ancient surgery, even in the best hands. {Eight Chirurgical Treatises, hy Richard Wiseman, Serjeant-Chirurgeon to K. Cliarles 11., 6th ed. 1734.) We cannot help referring in passing to the doctrines of Sydenham (i. 1624, d. 1689) of the generation of humours in the blood, and how nature, conscious of danger, sets up fever, i.e., a fer- mentation, which should produce " a thorough despumati(m of the morbific matter." But we will conclude our account of the ancient humoral doc- trines of inflammation, by referring to the works of Daniel Turner, a writer of immense popularity, whose Art of Surgery was the book in general use till long after the middle of the eighteenth century, and who reproduces Galen and Wiseman. The ancient humoral pathology was finally extinguished by CuUen's quotation from Hoffmann, that it were better to study the action of the solids, than the changes in the humours of which nothing certain was known. But it was useful in its day, and its main principle holds good for ever. Subsection 2.—From Wiseman to Hunter. We will now attempt the difficult task of enu- merating the doctrines which came successively into light during the century between Wiseman and Hunter ; in order to trace the lineal descent of the philosophic basis of Hunter's doctrines. We may begin by remarking that they all sup- pose the existence in the body of some agent, more or less distinctly endowed with consciousness and reason, which takes cognisance of impressions upon the senses, and of injuries, poisons, and other causes of disease, and then sets up actions for the preser- vation and recovery of the individual. Such an agent was the '• Nature " of ancients and moderns, the Vis Medicatrio- Naturce, Vital Spirits, Anima, or Archasus of different authors ; and so far is the doctrine from being extinct, that it is set forth with the utmost vigour and ability by Dr. George William Balfour in his Introduction to the Sliidt/ of Medicine (Edinburgh, 1865), who asserts the exist- ence of " Life, the Psyche," a conscious, intelligent and voluntary .agent in both plants and animals. On this point we must say that no one knows the nature of matter or of the forces which !ire exhibited by it, save that both depend on the Will of God. As for " Vital Force," or " Vitality," we use the terms as convenient expressions tor our conception of the peculiar kind of force which things living exhibit whilst they live, and by which the common physical forces are co-ordinated and controlled ; but we are no more entitled to speak of Vital Force as existing apart from living things, and as an intelligent Being, than we have to speak of a "Spirit of Timekeeping "as inhabit-