SURGERY, Hill, Dc'sault, Dease, Hey, Abernctliy, Brodie, and Velpe.-ui. The disease of the vertebrae, which occasions paralysis of the limbs, formerly always baffled the practitioner; but the method proposed by Pott is now frequently productive of considerable relief, and sometimes of a perfect cure. The diseases of the joints in general may also be said to be at pre sent viewed with much more discrimination than they were a very few years ago; and this great step to better and more successful practice reflects great honour on Sir Benjamin Brodie, while it keeps up a well-founded hope that morbid ana- tomy (the study of which has of late banished so much confusion from this part of surgery) will yet be the means of bringing to light other usefid facts and observations relative to the pathology of the joints. In the time of Pott, few patients afflicted with lumbar abscesses ever recovered; for, soon after a free opening had been made, according to the method then in vogue, the constitution was usually seized with violent irritative fever, which hardly admitted of any control. Mr. Abernethy ascer- tained that, in some instances, much of this risk might' be avoided by making only a small opening, healing it by the first intention, after the matter had been let out, and then repeating the same plan, from time to time, so as to prevent the cavity of the abscess from ever being distended, and give it the opportunity of diminishing by a natural pro- cess. Of course, success caiinot be expected to attend even this treatment, when the vertebrae are carious, or anj' other serious organic disease pre- vails. It is right also to state, that Abernethy's plan has not received universal approbation. The rarely failijig plan of curing hydroceles by means of an injection, as described by Sir James Ivarle, may be enumerated as one of the most decided improvements in modern surgery: at least, no doubt is entertained on this point by any surgeon of eminence in France, the British domi- nions, or the United States of America. Whether acupuncture will ever prove efficacious enough to become a common practice, and to supersede the foregoing mode of cure, is a (|uestion which I apprehend will be finally answered in the negative. The increasing aversion to the employment of the gorget in lilliot(jmy, the many distinguished advocates for the use of better instnunents, and, above all things, the clearer exposition of the right principles of the operation, now made, both by lecturers and authors, I regard as an agreeable in- dication of the augmented degree of success with which lithotomy is now likely to be practised, in every fair case for the operation. The necessity for the same frequent performance of lithotomy which prevailed formerly, must not, however, be now recognised by any humane or judicious sur- geon; more especially since the art of crushing calculi in the bladder, so that the fragments may be voided through the urethra, has already attained great perfection. The circumstances, however, which ought to determine the preference of litho- tomy or of lithotrity, are noticed under these re- spective terms. The uretliral forceps, recom- mended by Sir A. Cooper, for removing calculi through the urethra, atid all the ingenious inven- tions of Dr. C'iviale, M. Le Roy, and Baron Heur- teloup, designed to brejik or to reduce the stone to powder, so that it may be voided with the urine COL through the urethra (each plan thus superseding, when it answers in fit cases, all occasion for litho- tomy), are great and signal improvements, whicli entitle their inventors to a distinguished rank amongst those men of genius, from whose labours the present and future generations will receive inestimable benefit. The diseases of the eyes, cases to which Engli.sh surgeons once seemed to pay much less attention than was bestowed by foreign practitioners, now obtain due attention in this country. Although we always had what are called oculists, it was not till the period of the establishment of eye infirma- ries in London, about forty years ago, tliat regular surgeons began to study the subject, scientifi- cally, and with much success. Until this epoch they had remained wonderfully ignorant of this part of their profession; and, uninformed on the subject, they had given up to professed oculists and quacks one of the most lucrative and agreeable branches of practice. However, the able writings of Daviel, Wenzel, and Ware, are now familiarly known to practitioners ; and the observations of Scarpa, Richter, Beer, Schmidt, Himly, Lawrence, Frick, Wardrop, Travers, Saunders, Guthrie, Mac- kenzie, and Middleraore, have had immense effect in diffusing in the profession a due knowledge of the mmirrous diseases to which the organs of vision are liable. In the treatment of aneurismal diseases, English surgeons have much to be proud of. Alany of the boldest operations in this branch of surgery have been devised by the genius, and executed by the • spirit and skill of British surgeons. Even M. Roux himself is here obliged to confess our supe- riority. (PuraUile de la Chirurgie amjlaise, ^-f. p. 249.) The carotid artery, the external and in, ternal iliac, and the subclavian have all been suc- cessfidly tied by surgeons of this country. The first operation, in which the external iliac was tied, I was a spectator of: it was performed by Aber- nethy in Bartholomew's Hospital ; and has subse- quently been repeated in many examples, both in this country and others, with considerable success. I had also the honour of seeing the same gentleman (ie the carotid—the first instance of it, I believe, in England. This measure was resorted to by him for the stoppage of haeniorrhage, froni a wound of the neck. Sir A. Cooper's claim to the distimjuished merit of having first applied a ligature to the carotid, for the cure of aneurism, still continues unaffected by it. In the article AMEUnissr, I have cited many ex- amples, in which the carotid artery has been suc- cessfully tied; and the safety and propriety of the operation are now generally known and acknow- ledged. Indeed, so little are surgeons now afraid of the ill ell'ects upon the brain, that the carotid artery has been tied merely for the purpose of enabling the operator to take away a large ttmior including the whole of the parotid gland," from the, side of the neck, without risk of lucmorrhage; a proceeding, however, which ought not to be e'n- couraged into a connuon practice. (See Med. Chh: Trans. ro\. vii. p. 1!2.) The example of skill", jiuigment, and boldness, set by the surgeons of this country, has not been lost upon fi)reign practitioners. In 1^ranee, in Germany, in Italy, and particularly in the United States of America, operations for aneurism are familiarly practised. Indeed, in the two latter countries, the artcrin inuominaia had