4.V2 PHARYNX, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF. the two last mentioned ! Excision is not always safe, nor is torsion easy, while ligaturing, and leaving the putrid mass in the throat, is very objectionable. Yet we must frequently, to save life, have recourse to one or other of these methods, according as they seem best adapted to the case in hand. If the stem appears to contain large vessels, and excision is to be attempted, a double ligature should be passed through the pedicle, and it should be strangulated in two portions before being excised. (See Polypus.) If there is fear of suffocation during operation on these growths from drawing them forward, or from their effect in closing the glottis, laryngotomy should be first practised, so as to obviate that source of danger. Foreign bodies in tlie Pharynx.—Small and sharp bodies, such as needles, pins, bristles, fish bones, &c., are apt to become entangled in the folds of mucous membrane which lie at the sides of the pharynx, and pass from the root of the tongue to the epiglottis. Such bodies cause great irritation, and it may be violent inflammatory action, ulcera- tion, and abscess, and may even cause fatal results by piercing the great vessels, the heart or lungs. Pain, difficulty of swallowing, spasm, cough, and, if situated near the glottis, dyspnoea also, may be thus occasioned. Such bodies can be frequently detected by placing the patient in a good light, and inspecting the throat both before and during a full inspiration, the tongue being at the same time well depressed. If this fail to discover the intruder, let the finger be carried, regardless of the retching, all over the surfaces at the back of the throat and into all the sinuosities at the root of the tongue, and when the foreign body is found let it be hooked out, if possible, with the nail. If its removal cannot be accomplished with the nail, a pair of fine curved forceps should be passed over the finger, and guided by it so as to fulfil the object sought. If we cannot discover what we are in search of, or if it has become deeply entangled so as to be too difficult to withdraw with safety, then it is on the whole best to leave it alone till it becomes loosened by ulcerative action. Large bodies, such as masses of meat, not un- frequently become impacted in the lower part of the gullet, and if not removed may quickly prove fatal by the pressure exercised on tlie windpipe, or by the spasm their presence occasions. The writer has during last year made two post- mortem examinations which well illustrate the fatal effects which may follow the impaction of such foreign bodies in the pharynx, and their being overlooked by the surgeons who were called to the case. In the first instance the patient was found by the police lying, at night, insensible in a public passage. He was conveyed to the police-office, and, as he smelt strongly of alcohol, he was sup- posed to be very drunk. He was breathing laboriously, his eyes were much injected, his face purple, and his pulse almost gone. A surgeon who saw him introduced the tube of a pump, emptied the stomach, and had him put to bed. He thought, with the others, that it was a bad case of intoxication, or a fit of apoplexy. The man lived eight hours. On inspecting the body, three-quarters of a pound of beef-ham was found firmly lodged in the pharynx, but not wholly closing the larynx. It was mysterious how the tube could be introduced and not lead to the detection of the foreign body or the immediate death of the patient. Information afterwards received renders it probable that this man, who had been drinking freely during the evening, but who when last spoken to (shortly before being found) was far from drunk, had tried to bolt the ham, under the popular impres- sion, prevalent in Scotland, that it would have the effect of mitigating the effects of the liquor he had taken. In the second case, referred to above, a middle-aged Irish workman went into an eating-house, and was hastily partaking of a plateful of soup in a room where there were several other persons similarly occupied. He sud- denly fell down, and was said by the bystanders to have expired after a few convulsive movements. It was immediately concluded by the ignorant people present that the man had been poisoned by the soup, and the authorities were called upon to investigate the case, and at their instance the writer made a post-mortem examination of the body. A mass of gristle which had been in the soup was found entirely closing the orifice of the larynx, and firmly fixed in the gullet. A surgeon who was called immediately on the man falling down declared death to have arisen from heart disease, being misled by the account given by the bystanders as to the suddenness of the death. The subject of foreign bodies impacted in the throat is, however, fully considered under the head CEsoPHAGUS, to which the reader is referred. The pharynx is occasionally paralysed in cases of general palsy, and in some affections and in- juries of the brain and upper portion of the spinal cord. Convulsive constriction, too, is met with in tetanus, hydrophobia, hysteria, &c., and violent local inflammation, or irritation, is caused by some poisons, as arsenic, and by some affections and injuries of the nervous centres. The treat- ment of these various affections will include that necessary for the pharyngeal complication. Wounds of the Pharynx demand the same treat- ment as is detailed in the section on wounds of the oesophagus. They are occasionally seen in attempts at self-destruction, murder, and in war. Wounds from within are more apt to occur in the pharynx than in the oesophagus, for obvious reasons. Pipe- stems, pencils, pens, canes, spoons, &c., have been by accident forced into the posterior or lateral wall of the pharynx, and have sometimes caused fatal injury by wounding some of the great arteries. Violent inflammation, ulceration, and abscess follow, if any part of the foreign body re- mains unextracted, and it is of primary importance that the surgeon should satisfy himself that no portion remains so inserted. If severe haemorrhage follow the extraction of such a body, and cannot be otherwise suppressed, the common carotid of the side wounded must be secured. In gunshot wounds received in battle, or in attempts to connnit suicide, the brain, spinal column, or great vessels of the neck are very apt to receive fatal injury.] Geo. H. B. Macleod. PHIMO'SIS, and PARAPHIMO'SIS (from (bL/xSa,, to constrict). Often written" phymosis, " but the derivation will show that the former spellmg is correct. A phimosis is when the prepuce can- not be drawn back, so as to uncover the glans penis. A paraphimosis is when a contracted pre- puce has been drawn back behind the glans penis, and cannot be brought forward agam.