JOINTS, EXCISION OF. spatula 155 I cannot recommend tho introduction of a of wood to protect these and other parts. " Greater isolation of the bones would bo there- by produced than the circumstances warrant, and it appi'ars to me that the supposed danger can, by- due caution, be avoided." (See Praciical Surgery. ed. 4. p. 454.) In the great majority of instances, the H in- cision is the one practised, but some surgeons vary jt; thus Mr. Erichsen recommends a horse-shoe incision with the convexity downwards, from the side of one condyle of the femur across the tuber- osity of the tibia, to a corresponding point on the opposite side. Mr. Fergusson has also practised a semilunar incision, the form which Mr. Jones of Jersey recommends. In sawing oif the slices of diseased bone. Butcher's saw is commonly em- ployed for that purpose. It is a matter of choice whether the patella should be taken away or al- lowed to remain. If much diseased it miist be removed, but if slightly so the affected part can be gouged away or scraped. The preservation of the patella has materially added strength to the articu- lation in producing considerable consolidation. If any carious or necrosed cavities exist in the bones, below the level of the excised portions of bone, they should be carefully gouged out; this is deemed preferable to the removal of too much osseous mate- rial. The amount recommended for removal in cases absolutely requiring it, is from one-third to to three-quarters of an inch of the tibia, and about one inch to an inch and a half of the femur. After excision, Mr. Holt recommends perforation of the soft parts of the ham to allow of the discharges to drain through. Mr. Butcher recommends di- vision of the ham-string tendons, to facilitate coaptation and to prevent displacement and jerking; this proceeding is, however, seldom required. There is no bleeding of consequence in excision of the knee, and commonly there is not a single articular artery to be tied. Experience has amply proved that the beneficial results of the operation will chiefly depend upon the care and attention bestowed upon the after treatment of the case. "The wound should be carefully dressed, the margins brought together with stitches, the ends of the bones allowed to be in contact, and the limb should be steadily sup- ported in the extended position by any convenient apparatus; a M'lntyre's splint made straight would answer well. The dressing and the after treat- ment must be conducted on the ordinary principles of surgery; and if cicatrization is complete, in the course of three or four weeks, or even so many months, and the knee stiflF, the surgeon may flatter himself that he has done all which his art permits." (See Fergusson, op. cil.) In his second Memoir on Excision of the Knee Jomt, Mr. Butcher has most ably entered into the consideration of the various objections which have been brought forward against the operation; and m Ins two memoirs he has pretty dearly proved thnt the growth of the limb was not checked by excision ot the joint in cli.klhood. Care should l/e taken, however, not to remove the whole of the epiphysal end, as pointed out by Mr. Humphry in ]«o7, else there is a probability of considerable Shortening as the young patient grows older. When the healing powers have gone on well, and osseous union of the ends of the bones has occurred, the limb will be shorter than its fellow to the extent of from one to three inches, but this is obviated by wearing a high-heeled shoe, and it is remarkable to notice the excellence of the limb saved in every respect. " But what has really brought excision of the knee into practice, and has compensated for the failures induced by its indiscriminate adoption in all kinds of cases, is its striking success in cases which are fitted for it ; and it is, therefore, to the discovery of rules whereby such cases can be diagnosed, that the efforts of those who wish to promote this operation should be directed."— {T. Holmes, Op. cit.) In dwelling upon this operation, Mr. Fergusson makes the following very pertinent remarks :— " I know, of no new operation, as it may yet be called, in the whole range of surgery which has been so frequently performed in such a brief period as seven years, and I have confidence in stating that I know of none so thoroughly worthy of the attention of the surgeon. Amputation has often been called the opprobrium of surgery. Modern practice has done much to set this axiom aside. It is difficult to say whether pity, amazement, or horror is upper- most in the mind when one hears, now-a-days, of amputation in the arm for disease of the elbow- joint, and such, I believe, will be the case in a tew years hence, when some ' statistical table ' shows how a patient has fared after amputation in the thigh for 'disease of the knee joint.' That such a proceeding is never needful in such disease I am not prepared to saj-, but I firmly believe that in eight cases out of ten, under the ages of twenty or thirty, in whom disease of the articular surfaces of the bones of the knee joint seems incurable, the operation of resection should be preferred to that of amputation. Whilst I write (1857) there are four patients in the wards of King's College Hos- pital, who have within these seven weeks, under- gone excision of the knee under circumstances where amputation would formerly have been the legitimate operation, and the only reasonable course lor each person's comfort. -AH of them arc in a condition, as regards health, strength, and suffering, equally comfortable as if amputation had been done; perhaps much more so, both physically and morally, and each has the prospect of walking comfortably on his own leg, at a reasonably early date. " The wound is less than that in amputation in the thigh; the bleeding seldom requires more than one or two ligatures, the loss of substance is less, and probably on that account there is less shock to the system, the chances of secondary hajmorrhaoe are scarcely worth notice, as the main artery is left untouched; there is, in short, nothing in the after consequences more likely to endanger tho patient's safety than after amputation, whilst the prospect of retaining a useful and substantial limb should encourage both patient and surgeon to this practice. "One of tho strongest objections to this opera- tion, has been the length of time needful for a cure. Some patients have been twelve and eighteen months under treatment, whilst during the same period some who have had amputation performed, have been declared cured. But tho objection, I believe is fallacious, and made without experience or data. I have had a patient on crutches within six weeks after resection; I have rarely seen one about at an earlier period after amputation; and I have seen one walking firmly and nimbly within twelve