RICKETS. aikiilies. The lactates of potassa and soda are ri Milily <icted on by oxygen and converted into c.irbonntes. By the use of alkiilies tlie excess of l.ictic acid may be neutralised in the blood and the secretion of urine promoted. On the other liaud, even lemon juice has been found by experience to be remedial ; and by its use the acidity of the urine is not increased, the citric acid being decomposed in the blood. As a highly oxidised acid, containing more oxygen than protein or lactic acid, Mr. Headland suggests that it may carry oxygen to the lactic acid, and "so help it on towards its ti-ansposition into carbonic acid," Nitro-hydrochloric acid and nitrate of potassa have also been found to be useful remedies, acting also probably as oxidising agents. The iodide of potassium, which has been extensively employed, has probably a double action, promoting the absorption of the acid from the affected tissues, and thereby diminishing the acrimony of the parenchymatous fluids, and also the pain, and promoting the oxidation of the fluid after its en- trance into the blood. 5. To tbese indications may be added :—• To secure the elimination of such portions of the acid as are not transposed into caibonic acid, the most favourable channels for which are tile skin, the kidneys, and the bowels. The irritative nature of the rheumatic matter, be it the lactic or the lithic acid or any other acri- mony, renders rheumatic patients in general very tolerant of opium; and where painful local affec- tions exist, the fourth indication arises to mitigate these, and the attections of the joints or of the heart, which so frequently supervene, by the use of opiates, either alone or in conjunction with other remedies. The surgeon is frequently consult>^d for these local affections of joints already referred to, con- sisting of a spurious hypertrophy of the surround- ing tissues, effusions, impeded motion, and more or less of pain. These may progress to stiffness and absolute lameness; the patient complains little or not at all of any constitutional affection, al- though on investigation an unmistakable rheu- matic condition exists, and the local malnutrition belongs, manifestly, to an acrimony developed in the part or conveyed to it by the blood. In such eases local treatment alone has ever been found inefficient, and, indeed, a large proportion proceed 1 from bad to worse without deriving any benefit from I remedies. In addition to local alkaline, or other- wise medicated, baths, or the shower bath, a strict I code of regimen, medicine, and dietetics requires I to be laid down. The object here is, as in other • rheumatic affections, to correct the malnutrition by avoiding the introduction of acid acrimony into ■ the blood, and to promote the metamorphosis of effete matter. These are the principal indications in the treat- I ment of the rheumatic or lactic acid condition of : the system, with which so many surgical cases are complicated. For a full statement of the treat- ment of rheumatism, acute and chronic, and of the diseases of the heart, brain, uterus, and other organs, arising from it, medical writers must be consulted.] Henry AncelL [Bibliography.—For an account of the Lactic 'Acid, and Rlieumntisrn as depending upon its deve- lopment in the animal economy, consult -.—Dr. li 1). ToUd, Practical Remarks on Gout, Rbcutnatic Fever, 5 a Ihe Cause of the Coagulation of the Blood, 1858, Ur. h. E.Dai/ Chemistry in its relations to Physio- ogy and Medicine, 1800. Di: F. W. Headland, On the Action of Medicines in the System, 1859 Dr Morland, On the IVIorbid Effects of the Retention iii the Blood of the Urinary Secretions, American Journal of the Med. Science, April and July, 1861. A resumd of the subject.] RICKETS. (Rachitis.') The latter term was adopted by Glisson as a derivation from the Gre.^k ^axis (spine), because the disease was once sup- posed to originate in the vertebral column. Rickets was a word by which the complaint was com- monly known in England even before his time. (See David Whistler, Dissert, de Morljo. Puerili. Anglor. dioto. " The Rickets,'' Lugd. Bat. 1645.) This tract, which preceded Glisson's work, is stated by Dr. Cumin to be now exceedingly rare : a copy of it is preserved, however, in the Bodleian library. The disease is mostly met with in young children; seldom in adults. Morand, however {Acad, des Sciences, 1753), mentions an instance, in which an adult became affected. Dr. Cumin even divides the disease into two species; 1st, softening of the bones of children, or common rickets ; 2nd, that of adults, or mollities ossium; and to the disorder in this more extensive sense, he conceives that the term osileomrtfa/ati might be properly applied. (See Cyclop. ofPract. Medicine, art. Rickets.) [Rickets and mollities ossium were long consi- dered to be varieties of the same disease, and were described as such by Portal, Duvernaj', Boyer, Richerand and others : in later times Beylard (Thisesur le Rachitisme, Paris, I8S2), and Gerdy (Maladies des organes du mouvement,18j5)ha.ye supported this view, and described mollities ossium as rickets in the adult. Costello also, in his Ct/clo- pcedia 0/Practical Surgery, has placed the two dis- eases under the head of rickets. Levacher was the first to distinguish these two affections (Trctiiz du Rachitis, Paris, 1772), and most modern pa- thologists regard them as totally distinct diseases. Mollities ossium and rickets present many es- sential points of difference: thus the latter is a painless disease, not usually fatal, nearly always met with in young children, and arrests the growth of the bones; it generally attacks the extremities, having preference for the lower limbs, the bones are softened, and bend in the direction of their normal curves, their articular ends become en- larged, and the shaft itself often thickened. The tissue of the bone is altered, not destroyed; both sexes are equally liable to it; and the muscles, which at first waste and lose their power, recover their action as the disease gets better. Mollities ossium, on the contrarj', is a most painful affection and nearly always proves fatal; it is invariably found in persons past the age of puberty, and mostly when the bones are fully developed; the bones of the trunk are involved as frequently as those of the extremities, and when the latter are the seat of this disease, they yield, not in the course of their natural curves, as in rickets, but in any direction; the shaft of a long bone is more usually attacked than its articular ends, its struc- ture being completely destroyed and replaced by an abnormal material; females are much more sub- ject to mollities ossium than males, and it has ge- nerally been met with in them after repeated pregnancies,] Rickets may even take place in the fajtus in