ceived milch attention in Europe until the year 1816, when M. Sanson, in France, gave nn ac count of this ninuner of operating, and urged se veral considerations in favour of it. In that country the operation has been performed about thirty times by MM. Sanson, Dupuytren, Peserat, Castara, GuiJlaurae, Cazenave, Dumont, Taxi), and a few others. Dupuytren renounced the practice. It was also advocated by Vacca, Farnese, Giorgi, Giudettl, and Lancisi. Almost as soon as this method was heard of on the other side of the Alps, it was put to the test of experience by Barbantini, in a case where every other plan of operating appeared hardly practicable. "The con- nection of the rectum with the urethra, prostate gland, and posterior part of the bladder (says M. : Sanson), made me easily perceive that, by divid- ing the sphincter ani and some of the rectum near : the root of the penis, I should expose not only the I apex of the prostate gland, but a more or less con- ! siderable portion of this body, and that I should then be able to penetrate into the cavity of the bladder, either at the neck through the prostate, or at its posterior part." It was the latter method which M. Sanson first tried upon the dead subject. The body was placed in the position usually cliosen for the common ways of operating, and a staff was introduced, and held perpendicularly by an assis- tiint. A bistoury, with its blade kept flat on the left forefinger, was now introduced into the rectum, and the edge being turned upwards, M. Sanson, with one stroke, in the direction of the raphe', cut the sphincter ani and the lower part of the rectum. The bottom of the prostate gland being thus ex- posed, the finger was next passed beyond its solid substance, where the staff was readily perceptible throngh the thin parietes of the rectum and bladder. While the latter instrument was steadily maintained in its original position, M. Sanson here introduced the knife into the bladder, and, following the groove of the staff, made an incision about an inch in length. At tliis instance, the flow of urine from the wound indicated that the bladder had had an opening made in it. On examination, the parts divided were found to be the sphincter, the lower part of the rectum, the back part of the prostate, and the adjacent por- tion of the bladder. A second mode contemplated by M. Sanson was, after dividing the sphincter ani, to cut the termination of the membranous part of the urethra along the groove of the staff held perpen- dicularly, and by the same guidance to extend the incision in the median line through tlie prostate gland and neck nf the bladder. ['J'he first might with propriety be distinguished as the recto-vesical, and the second as the recto-prostafic operation.] In Barbantini's case the calculus was so large that it made a considerable prominence in the rectum, where it was felt extending across from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other. On account of its size, its extraction by the lateral operation was considered impracticable; and as it was not thought advisable or easy to break such a mass, and Barbantini regarded the high operation as more difficult and uncertain in its results than the common method, it was determined to operate through the rectum. The, attempt was delayed some days, by the impossibility of introducing the Btaff effectually, which was stopped at its en- trance into the bladder by the calculus. But, as a grooved instrument was judged to be an essential guide, Barbantini caused a long director to be con- LITIIOTOMY. Btructed, which he thought might be passed more conveniently than the staff into the first incision. He also provided himself with long forceps, the blades of which were very broad, and admitted of being put separately over the stone. A staff having been introduced, the operation was done after M. Sanson's manner, except that a wooden gorget was introduced for the protection of the rectum, and the prostate gland was left undivided at the forepart of the wound. When the bladder had been opened at the lower part of the rectum, as fiir as the groove of the staff served as a guide, the latter instrument was withdrawn, and the long director introduced into the incision, which, under its guidance, was then enlarged to the necessary extent. With some difficulty the stone was then extracted, and found to weigh nine ounces and a half. For about eighteen days the urine passed away by the anus, only a few drops occasionally issuing from the urethra. As this circumstance gave Barbantini some uneasiness, he introduced his finger into the bladder, the inner surface of which, near the wound, he found covered with encysted calculous matter, which was very ad- herent. At length, however, it was gradually removed, with a portion of new-formed membrane, by attempts repeated with the finger several days in succession. A catheter was then introduced, through which, at first,, almost the whole of the urine flowed. But, the tube being afterwards obstructed with mucus, it became necessary fre- quently to clear it by injecting tepid water. The cure now seemed to proceed with rapidity. When the feeces were hard, none of them passed into the bladder ; but when they were liquid, a part of them was voided with the urine through the tube, though without any inconvenience. At the end of fifty days scarcely any urine passed out of the wound ; the patient, therefore, went into the countrj^ where, in the course of anotlier month, the cure was completg. A few years ago I saw an example in wliich a calculus had made its way through the prostatic portion of the urethra, and formed, with the swell- ing of tlie soft parts, a considerable prominence within the rectum. If the patient had been under my care, I should certainly have made an incision directly on the tumour just within the sphincter, by which means the calculus might have been removed with great ease, and less risk than divid- ing the prostate. However, the latter method was followed, and the case had a very favourable ter- mination. In this instance, as the sound, in. its passage, only occasionally touched a small point of the calculus, which approached the urethra, and this just at the instant before its entrance into the cavity of the bladder, the exact nature of the case was for some time a matter of doubt toi several skilful surgeons who were consulted. Respecting the merits of lithotomy through thar rectum, i Scarpa, who decidedly condemns it, .ac- knowledges that a large calculus may indeed bcs thus extracted more speedily, and witli lessiislt rf injury to important parts, tlian by the hig^i opesa- tioii; "but," says he, " in addition to tlia aon- sideration that, in such cases, every mode of operating is contra-indicated by the maiibid state of the bladder, it is to be recollected that after the recto-vesical method, there is always lof&an open passage for the faices from the rectum into the bladder, and for the urine from the bladder into a 2