350 NEU] facial neuralgia, although it is the case frequently in sciatica and other instances.] The first excellent description of tic douloureux was published in the year 1776, hy the late Dr. Fothergill. (See Med. Obs. and Inq., vol. v.) It is not true, however, as is generally stated, that he was the first author who noticed the complaint. This, indeed, is so far from being correct, that we even find an account of an operation done long ago by Louis, for the relief of this disease (see No. xxxvi. Do la Gazette Salutaire, 1766) ; and this identical case actually became a subject of hot dispute between the physicians and surgeons of the French metropolis. (See a thesis, entitled « Vti 'uiu in pevtincicihus capitis ei faciei doloribus aliquid prodesse possii sectio ramonan nei~vi quinii parts ? Proponebat Viellart, 1768, conclusio ne- gaiiva.") Neuralgia was in fact first described at a still earlier period, namely in 1756, by Andre of Versailles, in his work on diseases of the uretlira. He met with it more frequently in women than men, but never in persons much under fortj'. Tic douloureux conveniently admits of being divided into four species, called by the French frontal, infra-orbital, and maxillary neuralgia, and the neuralgia of the facial nerve. In the frontal neuralgia, the pain usually begins in the situation of the supra-orbital foramen, ex- tending at first along the branches and ramifica- tions of the frontal nerve, distributed to the soft parts upon the cranium, and afterwards shooting in the direction of the trunk of the nerve towards the bottom of the orbit. In a more advanced stage, the conjunctives and all the surface of the eye participate in the eiFects of the disorder, and become affected with chronic inflammation, which is de- scribed as a particular species of ophthalmia. At length the pain passes beyond the distribution of he branches of the frontal nerve, and affects all the corresponding side of the face and head. It seems as if it extended itself to the facial, infra- orbital, maxillary, and even to the temporal and occipital nerves, through the communications naturally existing between their filaments. Each paroxysm produces a spasmodic contraction of the eyelids, and a copious effusion of tears. In infia-orbital neuralgia the pain is usually first felt about the infra-orbital foramen. The seat is probably in the nerve of this name, and the pain extends to the lower eyelid, the inner canthus of the eye, the muscles about the zygoma, the buccinator,' cheek in general, ala of the nose, and the upper lip. At a later period, the pain appears to extend backward to the trunk of the nerve, and those branches which are given off in its passage through the infra- orbital canal. Hence pains are then experienced in the upper teeth, the zygomatic fossa, the palnte, tongue, and within the cavity of the nose. As the disorder advances, it may extend, like otlier neuralgioe of the face, to all the same side of the head. During the paroxysms, when the disease is fully formed, an abundant salivation usually takes place. In general, the attendant toothaclie deceives the practitioner, who, in the belief that the pain arises from another cause, may uselessly extract several of the teeth. Tic douloureux of the lower jaw, or maxillary neuralgia, is usually first felt about the situation of the anterior orifice of the canalis nientalis, and it extends to the lower lip, cheek, neck, teeth, and temple. This form of the complaint is more un- common than the preceding ; but, after it has pre- vailed some time, is equally remarkable for its intensity. With respect to the neuralgia of the facial nerve, or portio-dura of the auditory nerve, it is a case which very soon cannot easily be distinguished from the other species of tic douloureux. The pains at an early period are no longer confined to the passage of the principal branches of tiiis nerve between the parotid gland and ramus of the jaw. The numerous communications of the portio-dura with the rest of the nerves of the face seem to facilitate the extension of the disease, so that the agony is soon felt over the whole side of the head. The original source of the disorder can only be de- tected by attentively considering the progress of the complaint in all its stages. (See Delpech, Traite des Maladies reputees Chirurgicales, t. iii. sect. 7, p. 214, &c.). 2. Neuralgia of the breast, and intercostal spaces. —These forms of the disease occur mostly in females, and more particularly when there is some derange- ment of the catamenia. The intercostal neuralgia (pleurodynia) has been mistaken for pleurisy, but the pain is not persistent as in pleurisj'; it can be awakened by pressure; and there is no sign of local inflammation'in the part. Neuralgia of the breast has all the features of neuralgia elsewhere: it may be intense at one time, suddenly disappear, only to reappear, perhaps in the other breast. There may be also great sensi- bility of the part, Hypermsthesia, of the breast; there is then swelling and tension of the part, which disappear when the pain does. Todd and others have drawn attention to tiie almost inva- riable coexistence of leucorrhoea with this form of neuralgia; and it has often been observed that as soon as the healthy condition of the uterine organs is re- stored, the neuralgia disappears. Dr. Todd believes that in cases of this kind, there is not only an irrita- ble state of the uterus, but also of one or both ovaries; and the pain is more immediately associated with the irritable ovary, the nerves of which, implanted as many of them are in the spinal cord, reflect the irritable state to the nerves of the infra-mammary region. (Todd's Clinical Lectures on Paralysis, 4-c., p. 445.) Neuralgia of the abdominal parietes may occur at any part, chieflj' perhaps about the region of the liver and the groin {Wood), or over the region of the bladder. It may be mistaken for pain attending disease of the internal organs: but a careful examination and absence of swelling of the part, and of febrile symptoms, will with the general history point to the nature of the case. The diagnosis of hysterical pains of the abdomen, from those due to peritoneal inflammation, is not, very difficult. The patient will complain as much, of ii. light touch as of a firm or heavy pressure j a slight touch in other parts of the body will like- wise make the patient shrink, as if in pain; there will be no signs of inflammation in the pulse, tongue, &c.; which in peritonitis is small, tense, and rapid, nor will the respiration be so short and guarded ; but there will be, eppecially in the fe- male, in manv cases the facies hysterica (Todd), and derangement of the catamenia. These points of distinction will also occur in cases of hysterical spine, &c.