JOINTS, DISEASES OK In the former, the observations of tlie autlior are based on an experience of 114 cases.] [Hysterical Affections of llie Joints. — Under this heading many writers have described ex- amples of great pain in the joints of hysterical females, which might be mistaken for some real and dangerous disease of the part. Sir Benjamin Brodie describes it as follows :—" At first there is pain referred to the hip, knee, or some other joint, without any evident tume- faction ; the pain soon becomes very severe, and by degrees a pufty swelling takes place, in con- sequence of some degree of serous effusion into the cells of the cellular texture. The swelling is diffused, and in most instances trifling; but it varies in degree, and I have known, where the pain lias been referred to the hip, the whole of the limb to be visibly enlarged from the crista of the ilium to the knee. There is always exceeding tender- ness, connected with which, however, we may ob- serve this remarkable circumstance, that gently touching the integuments in such a way as that the pressure cannot affect the deep-seated parts, will often be productive of much more pain than the handling of the limb in a more rude and careless manner. In one instance, where there was this nervous affection of the knee immediately below the joint there was an actual loss of the natural sen- sibility, the numbness occupying the space of two or three inches in the middle of the leg. Persons who labour under this disease are generally liable to other complaints, and in all cases the symptoms appear to be aggravated, and kept up by being made the subject of constant anxiety and atten- tion. ' {1>ath. and Surg. Ohs.) » observes that, in this affection, the affected hmb is liable to remarkable alterna- tions of heat and cold; at one part of the day the limb feels cold, and assumes a purple aspect; at another, hot flushes, followed by perspiration, break out over the extremity; again, the limb does not merely feel hot to the patient, but is ac- tually so to the touch of another, and the whole capillaries of the affected part become turgid with excess of blood." (0« Diseases of the Hip Joint, p. 117.) Mr. Skey has described some good examples of the disease affecting the spine and the knee. With respect to their frequency, he goes so far as to say: in three fourths of diseases of the knee- joint, occurring in young women from 15 to 25, we will find, more or less palpably, the traces of hysteria; for even the presence of real disease of the joint is no guarantee or safeguard against the existence of some symptoms really attributable to nystena. (See the Lancet, vol. i. 1059, p. 257.) Xhe same class of affection has been lucidly described by Mr. Barvvell, under the name of Hysteric Pseudo-disease of the Joints. In cases Of doubt he speaks of the value of chloroform as a wa«",\ fi Relieves he t?e M.H paper read before ierfjft t?-' "'fluence be r Lrd ••" '^"'i'^'y 1-1% j"i"t, will De restored. I here i.s a pomt, however, which he has knomx to mislead in diagnosis, namely, a cer- tam crepitation in the joint complained of. " Now many boys as wWl as girls, arrived at puberty, or mL^""'tr'^ rapid growth, are subject [ a peculiar crackling at the joints, chiefly the knee. 145 hip, and ma.xillary articulation. This is quite pain- ess under healthy circumstances, and children frequently amuse themselves with the odd sensa tion It produces. But if the individual be a girl who, verging on puberty, becomes weaker with chlorotic tendency, this crackling is very apt to continue in one of the joints, and at last to become the secondary cause of a neuropathy fixing itself in a certain part, and gradually assuming the cha- racter of an hysteric joint. Thus then, we may find in such a malady a certain amount of crackling, comparable to nibbing together two surfaces of parchment, of coarse silk, or of crape, and which 18 not like any of the crepitations in joint disease, except an early stage of hydrarthrosis." (On Disease of the Joints, p. 371.) Occasionally, though rarely, hysteric pseudo- disease of a joint goes so far that a sort of imitation of starting of the limb " comes on, of which, in some cases, the patient complains, as causing great pain, and which in others is perfectly painless. No surgeon will for a moment mistake this pheno- menon for the starting pain occurring in other really acute diseases; but the differences are worth recording, if merely for their curious physio- logical character when regarded in connection with the true symptom. In most cases the hy- steric movements only come on when some one is present, though the patient may affirm them to be constant, which they rarely are. They are rhyth- mical,^ sometimes recurring with immense rapidity sometimes synchronous with the pulse. But the circumstance most worthy of note, is that they cease dunng sleep, even before consciousness is altogether lost, and they do not return until the patient is fully awake in the morning. Now, the starting of the limb from articular inflammation is aivvays worst just as the patient sinks to sleep, when the controlling power of the will is with- drawn. This difference in the time of occurrence marks their several origins ; the one is dependent upon the cerebrum, the other, independent, even requires the withdrawal of its powerf Mr. Bryant lays some stress on the value of f n7h ^".^''^ diagnosis, for when in- disease will be detected, and free mobility and signs of a healthy joint will clearly prove the character of the malady. He also, in common with Sir Benjamin Brodie, Barvvell, and others has met with this disease in males as well as in' females although, of course, it is more frequent in tlie latter. ^ The treatment must be of a general character directed especially to re-establish a healthy con- dition of the uterine organs. If there be amen- orrhcea and anemia, alootics and the preparations of iron must be given ; if uterine irritation or ulceration exist, these must be removed by pronor local means, and the general healtli attended to The most eflicient treatment that can be directed to the affected joint, is, Mr. Erichsen believes the applicatmii of cold douches, and the employment of electro-magnetism, which he has found to cure cases in which all other means had failed; the application of atropine and aconite may be of ser- vice to allay the pain when especially severe. If unfortunately this all'ection is treated for a diseased or injured joint, as has sometimes hau- pened, by the employment of antiplilooistic measures, the general symptoms will lU'ccssiirily