836 URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. creased tendency to contract at that part of tlie urethra which has been divided. My experience is in direct opposition to this altogether. Having now had under my care many cases in which division has been made from five to ten years previously, I can state that the divided part is much less contractile than before ; and, indeed, were it not so, the adoption of any method of cutting would be an evil rather than a benefit. Furthermore, I have dissected the urethra in three cases at considerable periods of time (several years) after previous operations by the knife, and have in each case found it difficult to discern traces of a cicatrix, much less any narrowing resulting from the incision made. External Urethrotomy.—Various operations for the cure of stricture have been performed in the peri- neum, by means of incisions carried through the tissues between the skin and the urethra, and into the latter itself in the contracted portion. Wise- man describes a proceeding of this kind which he witnessed in 1652. Subsequently, Solingen, a Dutch surgeon, operated in this manner at Livourne. Franqois Folet, in the seventeenth century, em- ployed it at Paris, but only for retention of urine. Colot and others resorted to it in the worst and most complicated case of stricture. J. L. Petit and Ledian did so subsequently, but most com- monly only when retention was present, and only very rarely as a curative means for the stricture alone. In 1 783, John Hunter performed the ope- ration at St. George's Hospital, now known as perineal section ; it was done for the cure of stric- ture and pereinealfistulcB, and not for the relief of retention or extravasation. Having failed to pass the stricture with the finest bougies, and having used caustic subsequently without success, Hunter proceeded as follows :—" A catheter was first in- troduced as far as it would go, as a director, and all the sinuses were laid open to that catheter, which exposed- neat an inch in length of that instrument ; then the catheter was in part withdrawn, to expose that part of the urethra which was laid bare. The blood being sponged off, the orifice in the stricture was next searched for, and when found it was dilated. The catheter was now pushed on to the bladder, although with some difficulty." It was tied in, the fistula; ul- timately healed, and he passed " rather a fiiU stream" of water by the urethra afterwards. (Treatise on the Venereal, •2nd edit., p. 146.) The application of this prqceednig appears to have been limited, for many years, to those cases in which several perineal fistula; co-existed with obstinate stricture. Thus it was advised, but for these cases only, by Sir Charles Bell, about a quarter of a century afterwards. Its employment in cases of retention appears to have been adapted in this country at the commencement of the pre- sent century. The first published account of Us performance appeared in 1815, in a work by Mr. Grainger, of Birmingham, who related several cases in which he had done it, both in the central line of the perineum, and by the side of the raphe'. John Bell briefly suggested it for cases of reten- tion, but had not performed it (1806). Sir Charles Bell also published a recommendation of the prac- tice in 1016, which lie had before given orally in his lectures. lu ISU, Mr. Thomas Chevalier read a paper at the Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which he related a case of obstinate stricture of the urethra, where he made an incision into the urethra behind the stricture, only not dur- ing retention, mainly in order to withdraw the urine from the diseased parts by giving it a new course, since he had observed much benefit to ac- crue in this way in cases in which the bladder had been punctured. The first record, as far as I am aware, of peri- neal section, as applied to the relief of impassable stricture, unaffected by retention or fistula, is to be found in a valuable paper by Mr. Arnott, then of the Middlesex Hospital, read at the Medical and Chirurgical Society in June, 1822 {Trans., vol. xii. p. 351). A case is related in which the author, being unable, after repeated efforts, to pass any instrument through the stricture from the external meatus, had operated with the most satisfactory results, and advocating an adoption of the same method in similar cases. In this instance, having cut upon the point of a sound carried down to the stricture, Mr. Arnott succeeded in passing a very small grooved probe through, and in dividing the contraction upon it. A silver catheter was then carried into the bladder, and retained there, being withdrawn at occasional intervals only, and the wound was allowed to heal over it. The patient experienced a complete cure ; for during six or seven years subsequently, during which he re- mained under Mr. Arnott's observation, there was no return whatever of the complaint. Mode of Performing Perineal Section.—The best mode of performing this operation is as follows :— The patient should be placed, in a good light, on a table, and be secured as for lithotoni)'. The bowels should have been previously cleared by an enema. The perineum having been shaved with a scalpel, a catheter is to be passed as far down the urethra as the obstruction will permit, and held firmly in that position by an assistant, who at the same' time draws the scrotum forward. An in- cision through the skin and cellular tissue is now made, directly in the middle line of the perineum, along the raphe', from over the point of the cathe- ter to within a short distance of the anterior mar- gin of the anus, if the stricture be at or near to the bulb of the urethra, and the point of the catheter is to be exposed by a shorter and deeper incision. The sides of the opening are then to be carefully held apart as widely as possible with hooks, by au assistant on each side, so as to give the operator as clear a view as possible of the contracted open- ino- ; and this object is further to be promoted by a diligent sponging of the part ; or better stdl, as Mr. Avery first sug^-ested and practised, a loop ot thread should be passed through each margin of the urethral incision, including the mucous mem- brane close to the stricture, so as to open out the passage, and dispense with hooks or fingers, which mi<Tht intercept the view. This done, the opera- tov, who should be provided with two or three grooved silver directors of the smallest size, should endeavour to c.irry one of them through the con- traction, and if he be successful in accomplishing this, the division may be made with ease and safet\'. But if one of the directors cannot be in- troduced, either partially or entirely, no alterualiye remains but to dissect through the structures m the median line, endeavouring to follow the ure- thral canal as closely as possible. In either case, as soon as the continuity of the passage has been restored, the catheter first employed is then to be