increased, has been rendered more probable still by some delicate thermo-galvanic experiments per- formed for Mr. Simon by Dr. Edmund Montgomery. "An inflamed part is no mere passive recipient of heat, but is itself actively calorific. The arterial blood supplied to an inflamed limb is found less warm than the focus of inflammation itself — the venous blood returning from an inflamed limb he found less warm than the focus of inflammation— and warmer than the arterial blood supplied to the limb ; thirdly, the venous blood return- ing from an inflamed limb is found warmer than the corresponding current in the opposite side of the body. Unquestionably, therefore, the in- flammatory process involves a local production of heat." (Si7non's Essay mi Inflammation, Holmes''s Si/stem of Surgery, vol. i. p. 43.) Thirdly. The redness of inflammation is a direct effect of the increased afflux of blood, and of the preternatural accumulation of red particles; and in various kinds of inflammation it displays very dif- ferent appearances. It will be influenced by the natural arrangement of the blood-vessels of the in- flamed part. Thus, redness of the conjunctiva differs in hue and appearance from redness of the sclerotic coat of the eye. It may be uniformly diflfused over a surface, or may be scattered in minute points, corresponding to the apices of the papillee of skin or mucous membrane. Secondly, it will be modified in the most remarkable manner by the nature of the cause which produces the inflammation, especially if the cause be one which operates through the blood. Common phlegmonous inflammation presents a vivid bluish colour, gra- dually fading into a delicate pink. Erysipelas often is bounded abruptly. The redness in many inflammations is of a dusky or livid colour ; some- times arising from general debility, sometimes from approaching disintegration or gangrene accom- panied by a complete stagnation of blood in the capillaries. Sometimes the colour is modified by an extravasation of blood accompanying the exuda- tion, and the subsequent alteration of the colouring matter, as often happens in boils and in erythema nodosum. Sometimes the colour appears modified by a peculiar alteration of the surface, as in lepra, especially the syphilitic lepra. Suffice it to state the general truth, that almost every kind of in- flammation has something peculiar in the tint of its redness; and lastly, that there is one inflam- mation—the plilegmasia alba dolens — in which the absence of redness in the parts wh^ch are the seat of exudation is remarkable, and has been sig- nalised in the name of the disease. We may add that, in any description of external redness, it should always be noticed whetlier it can be dispelled by the pressure of the finger—that is, whether the vessels can be emptied,—and the degree of rapidity with which they fill again when the pressure is removed should be noticed likewise. _ Fourthly. The sicelling of inflammation is ob- Tiously produced, first, by the hyperaimia, or in- creased afflux of blood ; secondly, by the various' matters which pass out of the blood-vessels by rup- ture or exudation; and what we have observed respecting pain and redness may be repeated re- specting swelling—namely, that it will vmy ac- cording to the mechanical and vital properties of the part in which it is situated, and still more according to the exudation which is poured out. There are some parts, the sudden swelling of which is difli- MATION. 13 cult or almost impossible, a3bone,Iigament,and parts confined under fascia, whilst in parts abounding in loose tissue, swelling may be rapid and immense. But still more is swelling influenced in its character by the natm-e and quantity of the exudation. It may be soft, cedematous, and readily pitting under the pressure of the finger; or may be firm and brawny, as in the case of carbuncle, erythema nodosum, and phlegmasia dolens, in which the textures are infiltrated by almost solid exudation. To the fullness of blood-vessels, and interstitial exudation, may afterwards be added a swelling from increase of the number and size of the elemen- tary parts or cells of the inflamed part, in other words, by incipient hypertrophy or by hyperplasy, the first consisting in enlarged size of the elements of an organ ; the second in an increase of their number. Fifthly. That inflammation must impair the function of the part in which it is situated is almost obvious. It render's the exercise of every action painful and difficult at first; impossible, afterwards. This is remarkablj"- the case with ex- cretory organs, as the kidneys, for when inflamed, their proper secretion is diminished, and mixed with exudation from the blood. Section 3.—Analysis of constitutional symptoms : nature of surgicalfever, orfeverishness.—The sixth and last symptom of inflammation which we enume- rated h fever, or, more properly speaking,/etej-z's/t- ness, a condition depending on certain changes in the blood. But instead of speaking of changes in the blood as symptoms or accidents of inflammation, we ought rather to say that they are of the very essence, as we shall show hereafter. The relation of fever to inflammation is twofold. In the first place it may be caused by changes which occur" in an injured part. For example, even in a healthy person, if some delicate organ, such as the eye, or some portions of the skin, be injured in such a way as to cause severe pain and sleeplessness, and if pain and irritation be kept up by any circumstance, we shall have symptomatic or traumatic fever in its mildest degree. There will be slight chilliness, some tightness of the forehead, thirst, white tongue, and loss of appe- tite, increased heat of skin, and quickness of pulse, with an aggravation of the local mischief. In this case we may suppose that the composition of the blood is altered by the irritation of the nervous system—(and that a nervous system irritated bj' any cause, mental or bodilj', has the power of poisoning the blood, will, we believe, scarcely be disputed;—or by changes wrought in the blood which traverses the inflamed or injured parts, or stagnates in them. The most striking forms of general infection of the blood, produced by local inflammation, are those to which the name j^yamia has been assigned, and which, from the researches of Mr. Henry Lee and others, have been proved, experimentally, to be owing to the entrance of diseased fluid "into the veins. This is the nature of puerperal fever usually produced, by contamination of the blood with the secretions of the uterus, or with poison- ous matter introduced into the vagina during labour. But a malady identically the same may follow an amputation or operation, which Pro- fessor Simpson has described as surgical fever. But whether the case bo one of the slightest feverishncss from pain and loss of sleep, or the most