LITHOTOMY. Tdnfu, I cut.) The operation of cutting into the nient and induration, he says, render it conspicu- ous before the villous surface of the lip cracks transversely, and a thin fluid oozes; it then exul- cerates and scabs by turns, and ultimately pene- trates more deeply, and throws out a fungus. The patient is generally a healthy male of advanced years, and accustomed to smoking. Pus some- times escapes when the fungus is divided; but the base of the tumour is hard and granular. The skin and mucous membrane, and the labial glands, now prominent and warty, form a close compact mass. As the ulceration proceeds, the induration extends, and the salivary glands and the lympha- tic glands, at one or both angles of the jaw, become enlarged and tender. (Tiavers, in Med. Chii: Trans, vol, xv. p. 239.) Whenever there is reason to believe that the disease is of an unyield- ing cancerous nature, and it does not soon give way to arsenic, iodine, hemlock, or mercurials, the sooner it is extirpated the better. For this purpose, some surgeons admit the propriety of using caustic, when the whole disease can be com- pletely destroyed by one application. But as the action of caustic is not capable of being regulated with so much precision as the extent of a wound can be, and as caustic will not allow the parts to be united again, the knife is the most desirable means, especially as it also occasions less pain. Tyro incisions are to be made, meeting at an angle below (supposing it to be the lower lip), and in- cluding the whole of the disease. The sides of the wound are then to be united by the twisted suture. (See Harelip.) When the affection is extensive, however, the surgeon is frequently ne- cessitated to remove the whole of the lip, or too much of it to admit of the above plan being fol- lowed. This circumstance has generally been regarded as particularly unfavourable; and it has been commonly believed that, unless some attempt can be made to succour the patient by the Talia- cotian practice, in the manner mentioned by Mr. Earle {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 276), the patient's saliva would continually run over his chin, or only admit of being kept from doing so by some artificial contrivance. It was also thought that the deformity would be very great, and that pronunciation and swallowing would be but im- perfectly performed. [Mr. Syme has suggested a plan, by which a new border to the lip'may be formed after extensive removal by the V incision. It consists in making the incisions cross where they meet below, and in carrying them outwards and upwards above the margin of the chin. Two flaps may thus be formed, which, when freely dis- sected back, can be so adjusted by sutures that the sides of the original V incision will form the border of the new lip, while the margins of the gap left below may be approximated by harelip pins.] Various other plans have been recommended, suited to particular cases, to obviate the deformi- ties necessarily arising where large portions of the lip or cheek are removed. Baron Dupuytren, many years ago, occasionally adopted the practice of cut- ting off a considerable portion of the lip by a semilunar incision, and yet the part healed so ns to leave but little disfigurement. M. Malgaigne deems the plan of excising the lip by a semilunar incision proper only wJien the cancer is super- ficial and extends along the border of the lip. The incision, in the shape of the letter V, is to be preferred in the opposite circumstances, and espe- 197 cially when the commissures of the lips are im- plicated, {^tc Man. dc Mid. Oph:-p. in ed 2') Some observations published by Mr. Travers however, tend to prove that the disadvantages of this plan have been exaggerated; and, convinced of the prudence of a free removal of the disease in its early stage, he prefers "a full crescent- shaped section of the substance of the lip " to an operation resembling that for the cure of a hare- lip. He recommends the commisure of the mouth to be spared, if possible: "The contraction, during the healing process, under a double-headed bandage passing over the vertex and occiput, so as to keep a little moistened lint, or simple ointment, on the cut surface, shapes and adapts the lip with singular neatness; and, what is more remarkable, the cut surface takes a depth of colour, and a plumpness, and a defined border, which give much the appearance of the natural surface." In one case of malignant ulcer published by Mr. Earle, he removed the angle of the mouth, and a large portion of each lip, together with a consider- able part of the check, yet succeeded in uniting the wound ; Avhich object was facilitated by the extraction of five teeth from the lower jaw previously to the operation, which were useless, in consequence of having no corresponding ones in the upper jaw. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 274.) [LIPOMA.—This term is applied by some surgeons to the ordinary form of fatty tumours. (See Tumours.) It is also used to designate a peculiar unsightly disease of the nose, which con- sists of an irregular hypertrophy of the skin and subcutaneous areolar tissue of the alae and tip of the nose. It presents a nodulated appearance of a purple colour. In some instances the growth reaches to an enormous size, being lobulated and pendulous, blocking up the nostrils and producing a hideous appearance. (See Nose, Hypertro- phy OP.)] LIPPITUDO. (From lippus, blear-eyed.) Bleareyedncss. The ciliary glands and lining of the eyehds only secrete, in the sound state, just a suf- ficiency of a sebaceous fluid to lubricate the parts in their continual motions. But it sometimes hap- pens, from disease, that this Eebaceous matter is secreted in too great a quantity, and glues the eye- lids together during sleep, so that, on waking, they cannot be easily separated. Hence the margin of the eyelids becomes red all round, and even the sight itself is weakened. The best remedies are the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis, smeared, at night, on the edges and inside of the eyehd with a hair pencil, after being melted in a spoon ; and a collyrium, composed of 9j. of the sulphate of zinc in | viij. of rosewater. When alterative medicines are requisite, a grain of calomel or the compound calomel pill, may be given everv night. Persons who havelippitudo and cataract together bear operations for cataract much better than one would expect from the appearance of the eyes; and Mr. Hey never rejected a patient on this account, provided such state were habitual. {Pract. Ohs. p. .01.) However, the lippitudo, if possible, should be removed before the operation is undertaken. Consult Mackenzie {On the Diseases of the Em 4th edit. 1H54). CBader. LITHOTOMY. (From AlOos, a stone; and