perhaps offensive, discharge existed, I liave seen traction of cicatrices, and that it is therefore useful it of great utilitj-. As it prevents or arrests pu- trefiiction, and removes all taint in dead matter, we cannot be surprised at its removing the offen- sive nature of discharges, whether from mucous membranes, or ulcers, and preventing the injurious effects of diseased animal matter npou the part with which it is in contact. I have seen foul ulcers become clean, and ulcers of long standing have sometimes healed rapidly on its applica- tion." Dr. Eliiotson bears testimony also to its efficacy in pruritus podicis, toothache, and porrigo. (See Med. CIdr. Trans, vol. xix. p. 217.) For external use, he says that from half a drop to two or three, diffused in water by means of mucilage, will usually be sufficient, though its application must be very frequent. I have tried it in a few examples of phagedenic ulceration, in University College Hospital, and occasionally with success. I have known it used in the pro- portion of £i-om three to eight or ten drops in each ounce of water. If given internally, it is best to begin with one or two drops, and increase the dose very gradually. It is alleged that kreosote, as an external ap- plication, is advantageous in preventing the con- LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. 159 of Med. Science, \ol XI. p. 237.) "In different eruptions of a scaly nature (says this gentleman) kreosote has been found decidedly useful, and re- sults the most favourable have followed its appli- cation to ulcers, and solutions of continuity, having a venereal or scrofulous origin. From its known antiseptic properties, it has been recommended in gangrene." He also refers to its use in external and internal haemorrhages. Sir F. Smith tried it with success in phagedenic ulceration of the penis, disease of the septum narium, tinea capitis, and cancrum oris. Sometimes he employed one part of kreosote to sixty of water ; sometimes one of kreosote to sixty of acetic acid ; and occasionally he brushed the edges and surface of ulcers with pure kreosote. [The London Pharmacopoeia contained an un- guentum kreosoti, composed of half a drachm of kreosote to an ounce of lard. In the new British Pharmacopceia the strength of this ointment is doubled. The British Pharmacopceia gives also a kreosote mixture, containing one minim of kreosote and one minim of glacial acetic acid, in an ounce of distilled water.] LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF THE. The lachrymal gland cannot be said to be a part which is frequently the seat of disease. Ricfaerand has seen no instance of an inflamma- tion of this gland, unless by this expression be implied cases, in which all the contents of the orbit are more or less affected. {Nosogr. Chir. t. ii. p. 32.) Mr. Lawrence has met with no ex- ample of it. {On Dis. of the Eye, p. 691.) Mr. Middlemorc regards it as not of great frequency, and, when idiopathic, as mostly met with in children of a strumous habit. (0« Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 637.) I believe that the sur- rounding cellidar substance is more frequently attacked with inflammation and suppuration than the gland itself. According to Beer {Lehre von den Augenkr. b. i. p. 349), true idiopathic in- flammations of the lachrymal gland are very rare, and he declares, that, in the course of a practice of twenty-seven years, he has but seldom met with them. On this point he differs from Schmidt, who fancied that he had often had under his care cases of this description in gouty and scrofulous suljjccts. [Ueber die Krankh. des Thranenorgans, p. 131.) Mr. Todd also states, that acute and chronic inflammation and abscesses of the lach- rymal gland, are common occurrences. (See Bublm Hospital lUqwts, vol. iii.) When the lachrymal gland is attacked with inflammation, Its secretion, far from being augmented, as Ricli- erand describes is considerably lessened, and therefore one of the earliest symptoms is an uneasy dry state ol the eye, the secretion from the Mei- bomian glands, and mucous membrane of the pyelids, not being alone sufficient for keepina the eye duly m.ist and lubricated. This state is suc- ceeded by a throbliing acute pain in the temple shooting to the eyeball, forehead, upper and lo ve jaws, and back of the head. lu the meanwhile, the temporal portion of the upper eyelid becomes swelled, tense, red, and exceedingly tender, the tunica conjunctiva being scarcely at all affected, and merely exhibiting a slight degree of redness and tumefaction towards the outer canthus Ho wever, as the swelling of the gland increases, the eyeball becomes pushed more or less down- wards and inwards towards the nose. But, though there is little or no redness, nor any mark of inflammation about the eye, this organ is tense and extremely tender. The freedom of its move- ments towards the temple is much lessened in the beginning of the complaint, and when the tumour has acquired a very large size, is quite destroj'ed. Ihe impairment of vision is always proportionate to the protrusion of the eyeball, the pupil being diminished, and the iris motionless. The second or suppurative stage, Beer describes as ushered in' by fiery appearances before the eye ; an increased displacement of the eyeball; throbbing pain • great increase of the swelling of the upper eyelid,' and of the conjunctiva, towards the temple ; an annoying sensation of cold, and heaviness in'the eye and orbit. Now, under febrile symptoms, shiverings, &c., a yellowish point presents itself either on the reddened portion of the conjunctiva' or on the outside of the eyelid, and a fluctuation becomes distinguishable. {Beer, Lclirc, cj-c. b. i. p. 350.) Beer speaks of abscesses sometimes forming in the vicinity of the lachrymal gland, and terminating in a small sinus, which commu- nicates with one of the principal excretory tubes, and discharges occasionally a thin limpid fluid. {Lehre von den Augcnkr. b. ii. p. 104.) The ex- perience of this author leads him to consider these sinuses cither as a consequence of an uiiskilfullv treated abscess of the upper eyelid, or of a similar neglected all'ection of the cellular mcmbrano near the lachrymal gland ; or, lastly, of the pre-