'038 WOUNDS, the parietes is then carefully closed, and the neces- sary precautions taken against complications. Su- tures, which include and keep in contact the layers of the peritoneum, are employed in closing wounds of the iielly. In larger wounds, where measures arc requisite to oppose extravasation, we sew up, by the con- tinuous suture, tlie aperture by means of a round needle and fine silk thread, in such a manner as to keep the peritonial surfaces in contact, allowing the thread afterwards to ulcerate its way into the intei-ior of the bowel, and be so discharged. This must be done very accurately, and afterwards the bowel is returned and the external wound care- fully closed. We do not now attempt to fasten the wounded part in such a case to the external ■wound by retaining the ends of the suture thread, nor need we take any special pains to ensure that the wounds in the bowel and parietes correspond. The wounded part should be gently returned within the abdominal cavity and there abandoned. If the bowel is almost or entirely divided, and especially if it is also contused, experience teaches that it is better to stitch the apertures to the ex- ternal wound, and thus establish an artificial anus, rather than attempt to repair so extensive a breach by sewing. The various expedients of invaginat- ing the divided ends, or inverting the mucous lining, &c., have failed in the human subject. A limited wo.und heals by being glued by Ij'mph, and becoming adherent to the parts in contact with it. After all such lesions the utmost care must be enjiiined. Rest, quietness, a position which best relieves a strain on the part, opium administered very freelv, the bowels kept empty and unirritated by a scanty and simple diet (milk and ice chiefly), and after a few days the use of mild laxative enemata if the neces'jity exists, constitutes an out- line of the subsequent treatment required. If peritonitis arise it must be at once commanded. If extravasated matter has gained admission into the abdominal cavity it must be got rid of. Cooper, in the former edition of this work, thus speaks of such extr-ivasations :—] 1. Blood.—Wounds of the spleen, and of large veins and arteries in the abdomen, usually soon prove fatal from internal hsemorrhage ; the blood generally makes its way downwards, and accu- mulates at the inferior part of the abdomen, unless the presence of adhesions happen to oppose the descent of the fluid to the most depending situa- tion. The belly swells, and sometimes a fluctua- tion is perceptible, as was exemplified in one of my patients, in University College Hospital, who died with a vast effusion of blood in the belly from a laceration of the liver. The patient grows pale, loses in strength, is affected with syncope, and his pulse becomes weak and scarcely distinguishable. In short, the symptoms usually attendant on pro- fuse hsemorrhage are observable. In cases where the wounded vessel is under a certain size, the bleeding goes on slowly, and some time elapses before the extravasation is consider- able ; here the symptoms, which perhaps had dis- appeared under the employment of bleeding and anodyne mcdicineS) now recur. A soft fluctuating tumour may be felt at the lower part of the abdo- men ; sometimes on tile right side ; sometimes on the left ; but, nccjisionally, on both sides. The pressure, made by the effused blood on the urinary bladder, excites distressing inclinations to make water ; while the pressure, which the sigmoid flexure of the colon suffers, is the cause of ohsti- nate constipation. In the meantime, as the quantity of extravasated blood increases, the peri- toneum inflames ; the pulse grows weaker ; de- bility ensues ; the countenance becomes moii^tened with cold perspirations ; and, according to some writers, unless the surgeon practise an incisiim for the discharge of the fluid, the patient falls a victim to the accident. In the year 1733, Vacher adopted this'treat- ment with success. Petit afterwards tried the same plan, though it did not answer (as is alleged), in consequence of the inflammation having ad- vanced too far before the operation was performed. Long before the time of Vacher and Petit a'suc- cessful instance of similar practice was recorded liy Cabrole, in a work which this author published under the title o( 'AkfafiriTov dvaTo/iiKdv, id est, Anatonies Elenclms ticcuratissimus, omncs hniuiiii Corporis Partes ea qua sole?tl seeari Melhodo, deli- neans. Accessure Osteologia, Ohsei valiorfsr/tie Medicis ac Chirurgicis perutiles. Geneva?, 16U4. The method pursued by Vacher was therefore not so new as Petit imagined. Surgeons should recullect, however, that if no opening be made, a small extravasation of blood may not produce any considerable irritation. On the contrary, when the cavity, including the blood, is opened, the air then has access, and that part of the fluid which cannot be discharged putrefies, and becomes so irritating as to be a true cause of inflammation. The bad symptoms are also some- times chiefly owing to the injury done to parts within the abdomen, and still more commonly to inflammation within that cavit}-, arising as much from the wound as from the presence of efl^used blood. On the whole, I am disposed to join a late writer in the belief, that the practice of discharging extravasated blood from the abdomen can rarely be advisable. (See Hennen's Mil. Surgery, p. 412, ed. 2.) I have never seen an instance in which the plan was adopted, or promised to be anything but pernicious if it had been followed. 2. Chyle and FcBces.—These are not so easily extravasated in the abdomen as blood, because they do not require so much assistance on the out- side of the stomach and intestines to make them continue their natural route through the alimentary canal, as blood requires to keep it in the vessels. However, when the wound is large, and the bowel distended at the moment of the injury, or when,as Mr. Travels has explained, air is extravasated, or blood effused in the abdomen, which fluids are in- capable of making effectual resistance to the escape of the intestinal matter, the latter may be effused. (See An Inquiry into tlie Process of Nuture in re- pairing Injuries of the Intestines, ^c. p. 26.) No" tiling is a better proof of the difficulty with which chyle and fiecos are extravasated, than the opera- tion of an emetic, when the stomach is wounded and full of aliment. In this instance, if the re- sistance to the extravasation of the contents of the stomach were not considerable, they would be effused ill the abdomen, instead of being vomited up. A peculiarity in wounds of the stomach and intestines is, that the opening, which allows their ccniteiits to escape, may also allow them to return into the wounded visciis. _ . Extravasation of intcst'ual matter in t"^