RANULA. 608 becoming oxidised at the expense of the oxygen in the blood and tissues. The observations indi- cate further that the salts are present in the urine at first as sulphites, then that these are mixed with sulphates, and that finally the sulphates only can be detected. In a severe case of purulent absorption, accord- ing to Dr. PoUi, it will be necessary to saturate the system, as it were, with the remedy, by giving it in doses as large as can be tolerated. With this view, these salts may be introduced by the mouth, by enematn, and through any wounds that may be present. In cases of a more chronic or less urgent nature, we may give 15 or more grains of the sulphite of soda or magnesia as a dose, three or four times daily. As a lotion, injection, or gargle, the sul- phite of soda may be used, from the strength of 2 or 4 drachms to the 8 oimces, or a saturated solution may be employed.] Henri/ Lee. lAbertieilii/, Surgical Essays (III consenuences suc- ceeilinj? Vcnfsection), Edin. 1793. Andral, Precis (I'Anatora. I'athol. Paris, 1828. Arnot, Med. Chir. Trans. Lond. 1829. if«H!);(7, Zur Veseuentzundunp, Wurzb. 18^9. Bouillaiid, KechercUes pour servir k I'Hittoirede la Plilebite, Rev. M^d. a Paris, 1825. lii-esc/iet, De I'lnflamraation des Veines, Journ. Coni- ).16nent, Paris, 1819; et Plilc^lite. Uic. de MM. a'aris, 1826. Carmichael, Obs. on Varix, &c. ; Irish Coll. Trans. Dublin, 1818. Cruveil/iier, Phl^bite. Die. de Mid. Prac. Paris, 1834. Dance, De la t'hldbite, &c. Arcliives de M^d. Paris, 1828. Davis, Med. Chir. Trans. Lond. 1823. Frank, De Plilebitide. Prrt.r, iVled. Univ.Taurin, 1825. Basse, Pathological Anatomy, Syd. Soc. Translation, Lond. 1846. Heresse, Sur la Fhli^bite, Journ. de M^d. Paris, 1806. Hodgson, 'J'reatiseon Dis. of Aiteries and Veins, Lond. 1845. Ihinter, On the Inflammation of Veins, ed. Med. Comment. Edin. 1775 ; and Obs. on the Inflammation of the Internal Coats of Veins, Med. Chir. Trans. Lond. 1793. Langstert, Theoria de Arter. et Ven. Afffect. Prag-. 1764. See Diseases of the Veins; Cyc. of Med. Lond. 1834. ice (f/enry), On Phlebitis and Purulent Deposits, Lond. 1850. Longuet, Sur I'ln- tlammation des Veines, Paris, 1815. Neifeld, Ratio Medendi Morbos Circuli Sang. Bres. 1773. Phasbus, De Concrementis Venarum Osseis et Calculosis. Herd. 1832. Pvchelf, Des Veneusystems, &c. Lips. 1818. Ribes, Expose des Rech. sur la Phl^bite, Kev. M^il. Paris, 1825. Sasse, Dissertatio de Vas. Sane Inf. Hal. 1797. Sc/iinncJ,; Dissert. Sistens Observ. De Vas. Sang. Inf. Heidelb, 1794.J QUININE, SULPHATE OF. This valuable preparation of bark, which is prescribed in a large number of surgical cases, may be exhibited in doses of from one to five grains, three or four times a day, according to circumstances. As its solu- bility in water is increased by an excess of acid, one drop of diluted sulphuric acid is frequently added for every grain of quinine. When, how- ever, circumstances render it advisable to dispense with the acid, the sulphate of quinine may be pre- scribed without it, dissolved in the Tinct. Aurantii, or in the form of pill, either by itself or combined ■with opium, blue pill, squills, Extractum Conii, &c. It may also be given to children mixed with syrup. RACHITIS. (From ^xixis, the spine of the back, because the disease was once supposed to depend on disease of the spinal marrow.) The rickets. See Riciibts. RANULA. (Dim. of raiia, a frog.) A tu- mor under the tongue, usually believed to arise from an accumulation of saliva in the duct of the bubnuixilhiry, and occasionally in that of the sub- lingual, glaiid. The term is derived, either from tin imaginary resombliince of the swelling to a frog. or fnm the disease making the patient, as it were, croak when he attempts to articulate. Sucii writers as have treated of this disease before it was known that the parts affected by it were dcK- tlned for the secretion of the saliva, could have no accurate notions of its true nature. C'eltus is supposed to have alluded to ranula, in the fifth section of his seventh book, where, after treating of the diseases of the torigue, he intro- duces the following passage : sub lingua (iiw(jite interdum illiquid ahcedit, quod fere consislit tn iunicA, doloresque maynos movel. The latter cir- cumstance, however, renders it probable, that some other affection was signified, as a raiuda is rather attended with a sense of restraint, than of pain. Fabricius ab Aquapendeute and Uionis considered a ranula as an encysted tumor of the meliceris kind. Munick expressly says, that the affection originates from a thick saliva, which, not being able to pass out of the salivary ducts, accu- mulates under the tongue, so as to cause a swelling in that situation. De La Faye, in his noti s on Dionis, adopted Munick's view : he says, " There are two sorts of ranulae ; some, which are round, and situated beneath the tongue, seem only to be produced by a dilatation of the excretory duct of the sublingual gland ; the others are longer than they are round, are situated at the side of the tongue, and are formed by a dilatation of the ex- cretory duct of the inferior maxillary gland. The fluid which fills such tumors is the saliva, which gradually accumulates in them, in consequence of its viscidity and the atony of the duct." Now and then the contents are purulent, and ver}' often calculi are met with. {Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iii. p. 302.) [Mr. Holmes Coote mentions an anomalous encysted tumor with unusual contents in the posi- tion of a ranula but more solid and firmer. The patient was under the care of Mr. Lawrence, who made an incision into it, and removed from its interior a quantity of thick matter of the con- sistency of putty. The cyst, which was not very adherent, was dissected out, and the patient did well. The fluid which escapes from an ordinary ranula does not chemically resemble inspissated saliva. The examination of the fluid of a ranula from a boy twelve years old, gave the following residts:— Water 94-(); soluble albumen with a very small quantity of stearine, osmazome, salivary matter ? and carbonate, nitrate, and acetate of potash .5'4 in 100 parts; but no sulpho-cyanite of potash, and only a trace of salivary matter. A small concre- tion, liowever, removed from Wharton's duct ac- cording to Dr. L. Possell, contained 7'8 of salivary mattei° soluble in water, 13'3 of salivary mucus insoluble in water, ()8-E!7 of sulphate of lime, 9-i)3 of carbonate of lime. In another specimen of sa- livary calculus Poggiole found neutral carbonate of lime 94^, animal matter 4, water 2, in 100 parts. Translation of Chclius by South, pp. 40:-l), vol. ii.] The excretory ducts of the submaxillary and sublingual glands appear to be the only ones liable to this change; fur the texture of the parotid duct is too dense to yield and constitute a swelling of the above description. Baron Dupuytren, who has made the foregoing reflection, adds, that the seat of ranula has not yet been anatomically de- monstrated, and that it is very desirable that there