membrane of the larynx is numerously studded I witli muciferous follicles, which, in certain morbid I conditions of the membrane, become the seat of ulcerous action, while in health they serve the im- ' portant office of supplying a lubricating and pro tecting fluid. Having premised these few general remarks, it may be stated that the surgical affections which will 1 fall here to be considered, are inflammation in its various forms and in some of its most prominent : results, nervous afl^ections,and morbid growths and injuries. It is proposed to take up the subject of I foreign bodies in the air passiiges, in the article Trachea. 1st, then, of inflammation of the larynx, or i Laryngitis, the Cynanclie Laryngea of Cullen. This disease, although subdivided into as many as nine varieties by Dr. Cheyne, may conveniently be considered as being either acute, sub-acute, or chronic. The various forms of this disease were long con- founded, and notwithstanding the references to it which occur in the writings of several ancient authors, it was not till the beginning of this century that in any of its forms it attracted much notice. Such neglect has, however, been amply atoned for within the last fifty years, and now the literature of this subject is very extensive and valuable.' It is in the mucous membrane and in the areolar tissue lying beneath, that the distinctive characters of the three forms of laryngitis are met with. In the acute form of the disease, the morbid appear- ances are almost entirely confined to the mucous membrane. It was from observing this, that Cru- veihlier designated this as "Mucous Laryngitis.*' The red, tumid, and softened state in which the membrane is found, points to the inflammation which has been present, and although there are not such evident morbid appearances found in the sub- mucous structures as in other forms of laryngitis, still these tissues do not altogether fail to participate in the disease, and thus we find occasionally, and especially when the disease has been of great intensity, a certain amount of infiltration into these structures; still it is unquestionably in the mucous membrane itself that the chief and characteristic changes produced by acute laryngitis are met with. In the second or subacute form of laryngitis, r again, the mucous membrane comparatively escapes, while serious morbid conditions are found present in the areolar tissue beneath. According mainly to the rapidity and intensity of the inflammatory action, efi'usions of serous, sero-purulent, or puru- lent matter will take place. The more rapid tlie morbid action, the more serous in character will the effused fluid be. From the seat and pathological character of this species of laryngitis, various ap- pellations for it have been derived. Cruveilhier terms it "sub-mucous laryngitis," others "oedema- tons laryngitis," and others "ajdemaof the glottis." In chronic laryngeal inflammation, again, both the mucous membrane and the sub-mucous tissues are implicated. The elfusion which occurs takes place more slowly and is more plastic; hence comes the thickening of the membrane. Ulceration, too is not uncommon, and even graver disasters occur in ttie cartilages and the overlying textures. In consequence of inflammation, the' quantity •and character of the mucous secretion of the larvnx -becomes notably changed, and the sensibility o( lining augmented. In some inflammatory LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OF, conditions purulent matter is expectorated, and blood IS not uncommonly mixed with the secretion especially when ulceration has become established' False membranes, however, are not liable to form' in the air-passages of adults as we find them in the trachea in the croup of children, although in some chronic inflammations casts of bronchial tubes have been expectorated, which have given rise to very absurd ideas as to their nature. The increased sensibility of the mucous membrane is evidenced by the uneasiness caused by the performance of the functions of respiration and speech, and the spasmodic action which seizes the muscles in con- sequence of llie irritation set up, all of which gives rise to some of the most distressing attendants on laryngitis. The Causes to which laryngitis may be attribu- table are very numerous. The act of respiration 18 liable to place irritating agents in contact with the mucous lining of the larynx. In this way gases, fluids, and pulverised matters of various kinds are brought into contact with it, while ex- tremes of temperature, damp, and other exciting causes of disease gain free and direct access. The close sympathy moreover existing between the external surface of the body and the air passages renders exposure to sudden changes of temperature peculiarly noxious to the laryngeal membrane. All such exciting causes however, act directly, but there are other less direct influences which originate secondary or consecutive disease within the larynx. It is in this sense that laryngitis in one of Its foi-ms (the sub-acute) so frequently attends the exanthemata and especially scarlet fever. So too it accompanies or follows typhus fever, erysipelas, inflammation of the tonsils o^ the parotid, pharynx or trachea (in these latter cases occurring from the extension of the disease through continuity of texture). It is as a consecutive aflection, too, that (Edematous laryngitis occurs in connection with aneurism of the arch of the aorta or any tumour pressing on the venous trunks, and that in Its chronic form it arises during the evolu- tion of syphilis, mercurial cachexia and tubercle of the lungs. There are several conditions which strongly nre- diapose to the establishment of laryngitis. Intem perance, especially if combined with oft-repeated exposure to cold and damp, frequent over-exertion ot the voice, and derangements of the gastric and biliary functions, have always been justly recog- nised as predisposing to inflammatory affection of the larynx. Laryngitis is especially a disease of adult life and was hence termed by Pinel "angina trachealis adultorum. It will be apparent that when inflammation seizes the larynx, two functions will be liable to suffer, the voice and the respiration, and it is from the effect on these functions that the most characteristic features of the disease are de- rived. It is, too, from interference with such a vital function as the respiration, that the chief danger of laryngitis arises. As the respiration becomes more and more embarrassed, the due arterialisation of the blood in tiie lungs gets in like proportion prevented, and hence effects are pro duccd which, influencing in the first place the functions of the lungs and brain, through them acts [lerniciously on the whole system. The lungs become congested and then loaded with serous exit-