VENEREAL DISEASE. Sol which are attacked hy spcOndnry syphilis later {tertiary si/philis) than the skin, throat, and iris. The bones nearest the surface are most liable to nodes, as the tibia, clavicle, cranium, sternum, and the superficial portion of the ulna. It is a remark made by Mr. Carmichael, that when the deeper parts are affected, the pro- gress of the disease is more gradual than in the superficial. " Swellings of the testes, tendons, and fasciae are in general very indolent, do not excite any pain, and have very nuich the character of scrofulous swellings." The true syphilitic node is described by the same author as a solid enlarge- ment of the bone, and as not being at its commence- ment, nor for a considerable period afterwards, accompanied by any discoloration of the integu- ments. In most cases, it is a ver)' indolent swell- ing, increasing by slow degrees, and exciting but little pain and inflammation, until an advanced stage. (Carmichael, On Van. Dis. p. 318, 2nd etl.) Whatever p;un is experienced is well known to be greater in the night than in the day. In some in- stances. Dr. CuUes has observed the tumor to be for a few days soft and very painful; then it be- came firm, and, at tlie same time, almost totally free from pain. All nodes may in time proceed to suppuration; but this is a slow change, and only happens in nodes of long standing. Dr. Colles has seen it take place more frequently in nodes of the .cranium than of other parts. True nodes are less frequently met with in individuals who have been treated entirely without mercury. So far as my .experience goes, this fact, which is attested by several impartial and accniate observers, is fuinded upon truth, and is one of high importance in rela- tion to the mercurial and non mercurial practices. The bones are subject, as Dr. Colles remarks, to some diseases which simulate venereal nodes; and one of them is simple periostitis. The dis- tinguishing of one from the other he deems prac- ticable only by a close attention to the history of the ca-e, and to other accompanying symptoms. Many surgeons do not consider the swellings which occur near the heads of bones as true venereal nodes. A great proportion of them are certainly swellings of the fibrous textures and of stru- mous character—cases in which mercury generally does more harm than good. Dr. Colles does not adopt this view; for he observes, " the condition and seat of a node afford us some criterion by which we tan judge whether it be easily curable or not, &c. The node in the centre, or in the hard part of a bone, will be more easily cured than one on the cancellated structure. The former node will bear, and it also requires, pretty active and full doses of mercury for its cure; while that on the cancel- lated structure will require mercury to be used in moderate doses, administered with much judg- ment." (Op. cit. p. 185.) In the treatment of venereal nodes. Dr. Colles looks to the operation of mercury for the final cure; but he observes, that untirmercury acts upon the system, the part should be repeatedly blistered. Fnquently, mer- cury and blisters remove the pain; but the swell- ing continues, and cannot be removed by these or any other means. With respect to the practice of making an early incision into a node. Dr. Colles objects to it, because it is sometimes followed by painful Ruppuriition, and even by caries, necrosis, and tedious exfoliations. Dr. Colles has no doubt that nodes are gome- times excited by the injudicious use of mercury, or by the irregularities of the patient. " I have known cases (says he) in which mercury having been largely and repeatedly employed for the cure of other symptoms, and the patient having been again subjected to a fresh course of mercury, has complained, even while his system was decidedly under the influence of this medicine, of a swelling and tenderness of one or more of the long bonej. The tubercles of the tibia are frequently the seats of this affection; when thus attacked, they are not seea to become much enlarged, but are rather soft, and exquisitely tender to the touch ; and not unlre- quently the integuments covering them assume a reddish tint. Nodes, which form, from the above cause, on other parts of the long bones, are, from their commencement, very painful, and of different size in different individuals; but in all cases they are rather soft. The pain attendant on all these is more widely spread along the limb than in cases of purely syphilitic nodes. Of course, j.aiienfs under such circumstances are not fit sulijects for {lie use of mercury.''' I was glad to find Dr. Colles giving his testimony on this important point. Tem- porary relief, he says, may be derived from blis- ters, and he recommends an endeavour to be made to repair the mischief caused in the constitution by the injudicious use of mercurj', I was also parti- cularly pleased to read his statement, that the swelling of the knee and elbow, met with in pa- tieTits labouring under tertiary syphilis, is not truly venereal, and that it will often yield to blis- ters and sarsaparilla. " It is not benefited (he adds) by putting the patient immediately under a second course of mercurj', although it is found to yield pari passu with the truly venereal symptoms to the powers of this medicine, when employed with judgment and under favourable circumstances." (Op. cit. p. 190.) For my own part, I do not re- member a case in which it seemed to me that mer- cury ever acted usefully on these swellines of the knee and elbow in patients wh, se constitutions had already been subjected to one or more mercurial courses for other previous symptoms. I avoid mer- cury, apply blisters, give sarsaiiarilla and iodide of potassium, and a dose of the compound powder of ipecacuanha every night. The warm bath is alsn frequently of great service. ' Venereal pains in the limbs are probably often seated in the cancellous texture of the bones, the ligaments, and the fibrous texture about the joints. The incorrectness of the opinion that noctumnl exacerbations are pathognomonic of them is no- ticed by Dr. Colles, the pain of gout and rheums- tism being also worst at night. Syphilis in Infants.—The venereal disease « sometimes communicated to the J'cetus in ntero, through the medium of the blood of the mother, or the placental intercouse between the two l)^'"^" The effects of the syphilitic poison, thus develops in the fnetus, or new-born infant, may be said, therefore, to be secondary ones, as they arise from the introduction of the poison into the constitu- tion, such poison not having been applied directly to the parts affected. "Whether we inquire into the circumstances under which the diseased parent, or parents, can infect their offspiii'gi the form in which the disease aft'ects the child, »' the appearance and nature of those diseases whicn are communicated by the in'^aut to the luirse, or of those communicated to its other altenilnnts,