UTERUS, RETROVERSION AND RETROFLEXION OF. 8.03 pushed downwiirda as well as forwards. The tume- l.iotioiis of peri-uteriue inflammation are generally ilistinguished by their being felt more in the sides, I'y fixing the uterus centrally in tlie roof of the pL-lvis, and by their not projecting the posterior wall '1 the vagina. Fibroid orother tumors are generally distinguished by their history: they have grown blowly, and they rarely fill the sacral cavity so dinoothly and completely as the retroverted womb. The diagnosis of extra-uterine gestation—the case being very rare, and therefore unexpected—is ilirticult. In a case which came under my obser- vation, which led to error, the gestation had ex- ceeded the nonnal term; peritonitis, with abdo- minal distension, set in, obscuring examination by the abdomen; the sacral cavity was filled by a hemi-fluctuating tumor, which projected the posterior ^vall, and pushed the os uteri close to the sym- physis pubis. The uterine sound passed four inches, close behind the abdominal wall. The minor behind was then punctured, and fluid es- caped. The patient died of the peritonitis. The value of the uterine sound, as an instrument precision in these cases, is very great. To pass ito the cavity of a retrofiexed uterus, it is obvious iHt the sound must be curved, and that the point iust be directed strongly backwards towards the icrum. If the point goes forwards towards the itlominal wall, for the normal distance, two and half inches, or beyond, we are then certain as • the position of the uterus, and can exclude re- r..version and retroflexion. The possibility of regnancy compels caution in using the sound- •ut smce, in the cases where the extreme urgency I the symptoms renders accurate diagnosis, with view to relief, imperative, the life of the foetus, if lere be one, is already compromised, abortion is a edition of recovery, and the safety of the woman list be first considered, objection to the use of If sound disappears. If, on the other hand, the ;.mptoms are not urgent, the use of the sound i";ty be postponed, and there will be time to make uut a diagnosis by other means. J^^peatment will first of all be directed to the relief of the imperatively urgent symptoms, reten- tion ot urine, and pain. The first object, and, to •some extent, the second, will have been accom- I'listied by passing the catheter for the purpose of uiagnosis. The next point is to determine the possibility of restoring the uterus to its normal position. Two kinds of difficulty may oppose ■<toration. First, there may be adhesions binding 'Vii the fundus. These are extremely rare, but they should be present, attempts to push up uterus might be fatal. Blundell relates a re- Juarkable case {Otislelric Suryenj) of a young lady WHO had an ovarian cyst, which burst from a fall, i eritimitis followed. On recovery she married, iiiid becoming pregnant, died with an irreducible rc-troversion of the uterus. Inflammatory adhe- Mons had fixed the uterus in the pelvis. Dr. Meigs relates a case in which the retroverted uterus was bmind down by adhesions, associated with a Fallo- pian gestation. Secondly, reduction may be im- peded by the congestion, tumefaction of the parts; the uterus is locked in the pelvis by its bulk. In 8iich cases, and indeed in all cases where it is ^ery diflicult to reduce the uterus, the proper •course, it appears to me, is to induce abortion. By iiiorely lessening the bulk of the uterus, certain '■'•liof 13 obtained, tlie pressure is taken olf, and the stimulus of developmental attraction beiii" arrested, contraction and involution of the uterus set in. Reduction will then generally be easy, and if it should be not effected, the diminished uterus ceases to be a source of danger. The in- duction of abortion, however, is not always an easy matter. The os uteri may be not only high up above the symphysis, but it may also be directed forwards and upwards, so that it is hard to reach, and it becomes difficult, if not impossible, to pass an instru nent through it into the uterus. This is especially the case in pure retroversion. In the case of retroflexion the os uteri points downwards, and is more easy to reach. In either case an at- tempt may be made to pass a curved sound, or an elastic bougie, into the uterine cavity, to rupture the membranes, or, at least, to disturb the con- nexions of the ovum. This done, the patient should be allowed to rest in the prone position, the blad- der being emptied every six hours by catheter. If it be found impracticable to pass an instrument through the os uteri, if reduction be also impossible, or the symptoms be urgent, it is justifiable to punc- ture the uterus by the vagina or by the rectum. Tiiere is risk of piercing the placenta, which is likely to be attached to the posterior wall of the uterus. But this risk must be encountered as the lesser evil. The best instrument to use is a trocar about the size of a crow-quill. The fore- finger of the left hand applied inside the vagina or rectum determines the most bulging part of the uterus, and the trocar, guided by it, is pushed into the uterus. The rectum is to be preferred, because a puncture there is more certain to tap the body of the uterus, and to clear the cervix. On removini' the trocar, liquor amnii should run out of the canula. Some diminution of bulk is immediately gained, and abortion will follow in a few hours. It has been found impossible to pass a catheter, and reduction being also impossible, the question has arisen between supra-pubic puncture of the bladder, and puncture of the uterus by rectum. A case of this kind occurred to Dr. Head, at the London Hospital (see Loud. Husp. RepoHs, 1867). He punctured the uterus; it then became possible to empty the bladder; a shrivelled foetus of five months' growth was passed, and, after a very severe illness, the woman recovered. The decision to puncture the uterus first was judicious, since it might still have been necessary to do it after having punctured the bladder. On the other hand, Dr. Mtiuchmeyer relates (Monalsschr.f. Qa. barlsky 1880) a case in which he punctured tlie bladder; the uterus was then reduced, and re- covery followed. Reduction may be attempted, either leaving the ovum intact, or after abortion. In a fair propor- tion of cases, if seen early, simply keeping the bladder and rectum empty, and rest in prone or semi-prone posture, is enough to obtain restoration of the uterus; and unless verv urgent distress continue, time should be alTorded for this spon- taneous cure. When it has been decided to try reduction, the plan to be pursued is as fdllows': Empty the bladder and rectum; give chloroform tj the surgical degree; place the p.itieiit in the pn.ne position, with the nates elevated ; pass two or three fingers, or oven the whole hand, into the rectum • apply the tips of them to one A((/«of and under the uterine globe; push the globe upwards and to one side of the promontory of the sacrum, so as to cle ir