'^^^ TREPHINE, writers have raslily directed us to saw with bold- ness till the sensation of this occurrence is com- municated to our hand and fingers. Jlowcver, I believe tliis possibility of discriminating the arrival of the teeth of the saw at the diploe is so uncom- mon and so fallacious, that it should never be ex- pected or relied on. Nor ought the surgeon to saw with incautious force and rapidity till he sees the teeth of the trephine bloody, which appearance has been set down as another criterion of their having reaciied the diploe. I have already stated that a great man}' skulls have hardly any space between several parts of the two tables. This is well known to be the case in old persons and in children. A prudent man will always prefer exerting a little force for the purpose of breaking some of the bony connexion, retaining the circular piece of bone, to running any hazard of injuring the dura mater by sawing too deeply. After a certain time, therefore, it is better to lay down the tre- phine, and endeavour to elevate the portion of bone, with the aid of a pair of forceps, constructed for the purpose, and kept in most cases of trephin- ing instruments, or else by means of an elevator, which is still more calculated for the purpose. When the circular piece of bone has been taken out, and the edges of tlie perforation are unequal and splintered, the irregularities are to be cut off with the lenticular knife. When there is extrava- sated blood underneath the opening that has been formed, it sometimes spontaneously makes its es- cape, and if it should not do so, the surgeon must remove it himself. If one perforation of the skull should not suffice for letting out the blood, as much more of the cranium ought to be removed with the trephine as circumstances may require; there being no comparison between the danger of repeating the application of the instrument, and that of leaving a quantity of undischarged com- pressing fluid, on the surface of the brain. Cer- tainly many facts on record evince that the dura mater may be very extensively uncovered without dangerous consequences. Sarrau saw a whole parietal bone exfoliate, in consequence of a blow on the head. Blegny relates a similar case; and Saviard makes mention of a woman who had lost the upper part of the os frontis, both the parietal bones, and a large portion of the os occipitis, all of which had come away at the same time; yet she recovered. Vaugion, however, who seems also to refer to this identical case, describes the exfoliation as not being quite so extensive. I am of opinion, notwithstanding these facts, that exposing a large part of the dura mater with the trephine is by no means an operation exempt from serious danger. And, what I conceive con- firms this statement, is my having known instances in which persons who had been rashly advised to submit to being trephined, for the cure of violent pains in the head, &e., died in consequenco of the operation. I make tiiis observation, well aware of the successful instance of the practice recorded by Schmucker. (Wahrtichm. b. i. p. 434.) However, I perfectly coincide with writers who direct the remftval of as much bone as is necessary, in order to be able to remove the whole of the pressure from the surface of the dura mater. . ^he application of tiie trephine, incases of co- pu)U3 extravasations, nnist in particular be nuide several times, when the situation of the fluid does not favour its escape. But, in this circumstance, Saliatier says that we should not make numerous perforations all along the extent of the extravasa- tion; but only a counter-opening, as is done oji the soft parts. This author expresses his surprise at there not being on record many examples of counter-openings made in the cranium, since ana- logy demonstrates their utility. I cannot help re- marking, on this part of the subject, that one very obvious objection to making openings of this kii.d in the cranium, is the impossibility of knowing \yith certainty whether blood lies under any par" ticular part of the skull; whereas, in abscesses of the soft parts, the surgeon feels the fluctuation of the matter, and knows that his counter-opening will be made in the cavity containing it. One may sometimes have occasion to make more than one perforation, in order to discharge blood extra- vasated beneath the skull, when the blow has hap- pened near a suture, to which the dura mattr continues adherent; for a single opening, made only on one side of the suture, might only give vent to a part of the extravasation. When the trephine is applied on account of a fracture with depression. Sir Benjamin Brodia considers the removal of a small portion of bone as generally sufficient; but when the case is an ex- travasation of blood on the surface of the dura mater, he recommends a freer removal of the skull. He was led to adopt this rule by having seen a case in which, after two triangular portions of bone had been taken away with a straight saw, and a large quantity of blood discharged, to the great relief of the patient, suppuration afterwards took place on the surface of the dura mater wherever this membrane had been separated hy the extrava- sation from the bone. The matter was hindered by the granulations from escaping by the aperture already made, and though another portion of bone was removed, the practice was too late to save the man's life. (See i\'led. Chit: Trans, vol. xiv. p. 387.) Whether an extensive removal of the cranium ought to be generally made in anticipa- tion of suppuration of the dura mater in such a case—whether such a measure migiit not rather tend to make the event more likely to happen—■ and whether the practice which Sir Benjamin Brodie actually adopted, might not have been the best, though, in the instance brought forward, un- successful—are questions, I think, on which the most judicious surgeons may entertain differences of opinion. As my principles lead me to disap- prove of the old custom of trephining for the pur- pose of preventing inflammation and suppuration of the dura mater, the}' would incline me to be content with rigorous antiphlogistic treatment, and discharging the confined matter as soon as the ill effects of its pressure began to show tiiemselvcs. If we should not find blood lodged under the cranium, but the dura mater should seem elevated, tense, dark-coloured, forming a prominent fluctu- ating tumour, it niaj' be cautiouslj' opcuci with a lancet, or bistoury, with the view ot letting out any collection of blood underneath. Ii the article Huad, Injuhies of, I have stated the result of Mr. Abernethy's experience, in regard to the operation of opening the dura mater. 'Ihis gentleman found, that the method never cflectii- ally discharged all the blood, but only the serous part of it. However, the evacuation of any of the compressing fluid nnist certainly be desirable;