is easj', after having applied cantharides to a first narrow zone, to use the iodine a few hours later for a larger zoue outside. An important detail of Mr. Jordan's practice is this : " If an abscess be situated in the vicinity of a large artery (as in the limbs or neck), which large artery is a more or less independent, or ' next' arterj', a stripe of counter- irritation may with advantage be established over it. In an abscess (or carbuncle, or boil, or erysi- pelas) in the axilla, or in the thorax near the axiila, a stripe of counter-irritation—narrow of acetum lyttaj, broader of iodine—may be carried alon"- the brachial artery to the elbow. In abscess about the elbow, stripes of counter-irritation may be established over the radial and ulnar arteries. In abscess of the groin (bubo, strumous glands, &c.), a stripe of skin may be inflamed over the femoral artery. These stripes should be made in addition to the zones or circles, which may in con- sequence be made a little narrower. In abscesses of the hand or fingers, all the uninflamed part of the hand, and the whole of the fore-arm (a half or two-thirds in small abscesses), should be covered with iodine. At the same time, a linseed poultice, heavy and hot, should be applied to the abscess, and over it should be placed a bandage or a shot mattress, which of the two convenience and locality may determine. In either case, the object is to secure pressure, which should be moderately firm, but which also should never give rise to pain. Real trouble should be taken to elevate the part by light wood apparatus, or pillows, or both. . . With Has ireaiinent, as a general rule, it is not necessary io open abscesses. No advantage is gained by open- ing them. The ill results which in the ordinary treatment of abscesses are avoided by the knife, are best avoided by a circumscribing belt of coun- ter-irritation, assisted by the other remedies re- ferred to. A zone of cutaneous ivjiammation immediately removes the injlammation, and thereby immediately removes the pain, the pressure on adja- cent parts, the tendency to either extension or difu- sion, and the danger of opening into important cavities. In a large proportion it is possible to obtain the absorption of pus. In others, sponta- neous opening quickly and readily occurs. . . The effect of counter-irritation on abscesses is very striking. It takes away the diffused swelling and hardness around the abscess, and leaves the pus in a circumscribed isolated cavity, which projects from the surface with all the distinctness and prominence of a tumour." This treatment ensures a greatly diminished formation of pus. " W hen efficient counter-irritation is used all the mflamed tissue which is not already pus is reclaimed from the suppurative process. Under such circuni- stances, when an abscess opens, or is opened, ■scarcely anv or no discharge follows the first escape." Mr. Jordan does not altogether disclaun incisions, especially " where abscesses are under dense and tense tissue," when, "it counter-irrita- tion docs not relieve pain and swelling in^iij"^^ liours, by all means let them be resorted to lint he seems not to believe that incisions cure by un- loading the vessels, relieving tension, and allording an exit to discharge, but that they too, when tliey do good, act as counter-irritants, lie aflmns that the counter-irritation of incisions is tardy m its elfects, that an incision does not inflame so quickly as cantharides or iodine, and that many an abscess has been cured by the counter-irritant ellVut of an INFLAMMATION. incision, which never reached its cavity nor gave exit to a drop of pus. Destructive and rapid ulce- ration, phagedajna, syphilitic sores, and hospit;il gangrene, are asserted to depend on intense in- flammation, and to be cured by an artificial circle of counter-inflammation ; and it is said that the nitric-acid treatment, when it does good, is really a counter-irritant to the mass of the sore. Erysi- pelas, simple and phlegmonous, is cited as a disease in which nitrate of silver, applied as a belt around, is known to check the disease—of course, by counter-irritation. " At whatever stage," con- tinues Mr. Jordan, "a carbuncle presents itself the one great remedy is a zone of counter-irritation. A circle of iodine liniment or strong iodine paint, several times repeated, will greatly relieve all the symptoms in twenty-four hours." Bolts are similarly treated according to their size. Whitloio receives the same treatment, which (says Mr. Jordan) renders incisions " often unnecessary," except in the thecal variety ; " but where subsi- dence of pain and swelling are not immediate, an incision must be made without delay." In a bad case of whitlow, Mr. Jordan covers the entire hand and fore-arm to the elbow with iodine. New suppurative inflammations of bones, pe- riosteum, nodes, synovitis, and inflamed bursaj, are blistered by most surgeons, so on that point we need not quote Mr. Jordan. In the graver chronic bone and joint-destroying aflfections classi- fied as ostitis, and particularly that degenerative ostitis which is the chief element in joint disease, which leads to abscess and caries, Mr. Jordan unhesitatingly employs counter-irritation in its severest form, the actual cautery. " The actual cautery," he says, "is now employed by many surgeons, but in far too limited a manner, and too near the joints. . . For the shoulder, a stripe of eschar half an inch wide should com- mence high in the axilla and be carried six or eight inches along the axillary and brachial artery ; two others should be made, one along the anterior, the other along the posterior, aspect of the joint, iu such manner that the three stripes are equally dis- tant from each other. If the knee is affected, four stripes of eschar should be made along the front, back, and sides of the joint. These should be ten or twelve inches long, and also equally distant from each other. . . The spaces between may be covered with iodine liniment." In disease of the hip-joint, " a broad stripe of eschar is made over the femoral artery, from the groin to the lower third of the thigh, and another posteriorly from near the crest of the ilium to the middle of the thigh." "Caries of vertebra;, whether with or without angular curvature, at whatever age, and in whatever locality at any stage," says Mr. Jordan, " should be treated by the actual cautery. The disease is deep, protracted and formidable. The counter-irritation should be deep and protracted, formidable it happily is not witli the beneficent aid of chloroform. Two stripes of escliar, an inch wide and twelve inches long, one on each side of the disease, would not be too ex- tensive for an adult. In the young the eschar should be proportionally less." In the inflamma- tory state succeeding injuries of the bead, Mr. Jor- dan prefers painting the scalp with nitrate of silver to applying ice, whicli he says, " by diminishing the external can only increase the iiitra-cranial in- flammation." In laryngitis and tonsillitis, strips of