073 VENEREAL DISEASE. niiimal poisons which he represents as resembling termentation in n saccharine solution. On applying j'east to a saccharine solution, so long as any gluten remains, it is well known that yeast will be reproduced, but will cease to be lormed when the gluten is exhausted. He supposes iis regards those poisons that affect the system but once, that some unknown constituent of the blood or of the animal system, not es- sential to life, is as necessary for the formation or reproduction of the poison as the gluten is for the reproduction of yeast ; tliat the reproduc- tion ceases when this constituent is exhausted. As regards the yeast, we know that it is the gluten in •hesaccharine solution. As regards the animal poi- -iins, as yet we know not what the agent is. But on applying this chemical theory to the action of the poison of syphilis, which may affect the system again and again, it would appear that the poison depends for its production upon some ingredient of the blood or tissues that is not easily exhausted, and which may possibly be continually reproduced ; if so, it would be similar to fermentation in a saccharine solu- tion to which gluten is being continually or from time to time added. In other words, there is in the human system, and in that of animals, something which is essential to the formation of the poison of syphilis. This something may be exhausted—that is distinctly proved ; may it be reproduced? Is it something which is continually being formed If so, the syphilitic virus will be again formed on the appli- cation of the proper stimulus, and the immunity will be temporary. Time alone will settle this : important question. For ourselves, we have sufR- . cient confidence in Dr. Sperino and Dr. Boeck to 1 feel satisfied that they will watch the patients • whom they have experimented on, and that they • will as faithfully give the result, if the immunity I prove to be temporary, as if it were permanent, 1 although for the sake of humanity they may regret I that result. But with regard to the treatment of syphilis 1 by syphilisation this stands quite upon a dif- I ferent basis. Both Dr. Sperino and Dr. Boeck • would for the present limit it to secondary symp- I toms. The average treatment by syphilisation I may be taken at six months as to time, and as to I number of inoculations some 300 or 400 ; but I there is some liability to return, according to Dr. I Boeck, especially where mercury has been given. 1 Dr. Boeck admits the necessity for the adminis- tration of iodine for tertiary' symptoms ; and also that complete immunity from the lialjilitv to contract fresh disease has not yet been proved. We should not ourselves feel warranted in treating ordinary cases of secondary or tertiary syphilis by syphilisation, but the extraordinnrv I cases, which refuse to yield to the nsu.-il modes of treatment continued for months and even years, appear to us to justify even treatment as severe as that of syphilisation, and we confess that we feel tempted to have recourse to it in such cases. In order to bring our information on this in- literestiiig subject up to the present day, we will here add a few quotations from a valuabh; paper, eutitli'd " Record of Cases treated in the Lock Hospital," by .Tames R. Lane and by George 0. Gascoycn, publishedi n vo'. 1. of the Afrd.ico-CM- ruriikal Transactions: read .Time II, lfi()7: " The practice of syphilisation has evoked ex- treme hostility in Ejigland, and it had never been thoroughly carried out until the present series of cases was commenced under the superintendence of Dr. Boeck himself. " That gentleman, being on a professional visit to this country, most kindly acceded to the request of the committee then sitting to inquire into the treatment and prevention of venereal diseases in the Army and Navy, to state the result of his great experience ; and he most generously, and at great personal sacrifice, offered to return to Eng- land for three months to initiate his system of treatment by syphilisation, provided he could obtain sufficient hospital accommodation for the purpose. At the request of the above committee, and at the suggestion of the authors of this paper, the governors of the Lock Hospital very liberally placed some beds at his disposal, and the practice was commenced in September, 18G5, and continued under Dr. Boeck's supervision until the end of that year. After his departure from this country, the treatment of the cases begun by him was con- cluded by the authors, and some others have since been undertaken by them and carried through. " The method pursued by Dr. Boeck is as fol- lows :—At the commencement three punctures are made on each side of the chest, and matter is in- serted, derived either from a person who has a primary syphilitic ulcer, or from the artificial sores of a patient who is undergoing sypliilisation. " Afteran interval of three days, if the punctures have developed pustules, three other inoculations are made from them in the same region of the body, and this process is repeated as long as pus- tules are produced ; the inoculations being made at intervals of three days and the matter being always taken from the last formed pustules. When, at lensth, these are not inoculable, fresh matter is employed, and the above process is re- peated, until a positive result can no longer be obtained on the trunk. The same practice is then commenced on the arms, and continued there until the punctures fail, when a similar process is pur- sued on the thighs until no more pustules result, and a condition of immunity more or less perfect is arrived at. In the ordinary run of cases this occurs in from three to four months." " Although Dr. Boeck considers that the two varieties of chancre are produced by the sa ne virus, and tliat the result produced by their inocu- lation i< essentially the sime, he prefers the matter from an indurated sore for the purpose of syphilisation, as he has found that patients pass th rough the treatment and attain innnunity more rapidly and satisfactorily when this is used than when the secretion of a soft sore is inoculated. We have stated in each case the nature of the symptoms for which the treatment was under- taken ; the progress of the inoculations ; the effect of the treatment upon the symptoms ; and the final resillt. "The inoculations practised on each patient were recorded by means of a diagram, three of which, illustrating casts 2, !>, and 9, iire printed to show the method adopted ; in addition to these a written diary of the patients was kept." The first only of the 27 cases treated by syphi- lisation in here given in detail, and a table of the whole number added : — "Ca.si! 1.—Female, C. J—, a3t. Hi ; admitted August 17, 1065; discharged February 20, iSSU.