88t UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OF lapsus of tlic rectum, of more than four years'' standing, and which had resisted all the ordinary means, was entirely cured. Mr. Crosse refers to a case {Remte Med. Decembre, 1835), where the uterus, shortly after impregnation, descended as low as the knees, and remained so until the full term of utero- gestation, when delivery was completed by cmbry-ulcio with safety to the mother. " Might not the life of the child (he asks) also have been spared by free incision of the os uteri to effect delivery ? " (See Prov. Med. Surg. Trans, vol. v. P- 92.) . - Amongst the various practical deductions from the new relations of the parts in cases of prolapsus uteri, is the possibility of extracting calculi from the bladder, through an incision made in the anterior side of the tumour, with the aid of a director p:i8sed into the meatus uriiiarius, in the manner executed by Ruysch. [Thus far Samuel Cooper. The article is so ex cellent that I have feared to mar it by interpola- tions. I simply add such information as subse- quent progress demands. It is convenient, at the same time, to introduce a brief description of Ili/perirophij and Atrophj of the Uterus. I have seen prolapsus uteri in virgins caused— 1. By attacks of epilepsy. 2. By violent coughing. 3. By the dragging of a polypus.' 4. By succession, as from a fall upon the nates, and from railway collisions. In the first, second, and fourth cases the prolapsus may be called acute. It is produced by sudden violence, tending to drive the uterus and other pelvic contents out through the vulva. It is liable to be attended by acute inflammation, and is commonly marked by excessive local pain. 6. By the pressure of an ovarian tumor upon the nterus. During the exercise of the child-beanng func- tion prolapsus is more common. To the accidental causes which produce it in virgins are now added causes springing from several relations attended or not by pregnancy. The dominant feature of these causes is increase of bulk, arising from physiolo- gical or morbid congestion, from inflammation, from imperfect involution after labour : this is Tirimarily or secondarily attended by relaxation of the structures which support the uterus, including the ligaments, and above all the vagina. The vagina alone, if in a state of healthy contrac- tilfty, will maintain the uterus in situ; but when its contractility is impaired by over-distension, und by inflammation, the uterus squats down, or sinks in it, producing a minor degree of vaginal depression or inversion. The close attachment of the anterior wall of the cervix uteri to the base ot the bladder, making the point of union the most fixed point or centre of movement of the uterus, makes it impossible for the cervix to fall without drag<J-ing the base of the bladder down with it. Aud°it is remarkable that it is the anterior wall of the vagina, that which is connected with the base of the bladder, which first tends to descend Tliis is clearly seen when a patient having a dis position to prolapsus strains in an expulsive effort: the anterior vaginal wall first bulges out of the vulva under the symphysis, and is followed by the anterior edge of the os uteri, then by the pos- terior edge. Three indications in therapeutics ilovv from this fact: first, contracting the posterior wall of the vagina by periiueoraphy is not calcu- lated to cure prolapsus ; secondly, mechanical con. irivaiices for supporting the uterus must be adapted to elevate the cervico-vesical junction ; or thirdly, to keep the body of the uterus from falling back- wards. Prolapsus during the reproductive period, then, is commonly dependent upon inflammation or its consequences. This condition is constantly liable to aggravation by continuance and recurrence of the causes, as sexual relations, labours, and abor- tions. The connection between prolapsus and hyper- trophic elongation of the cervical portion of the uterus, demonstrated by Cruveilhier (see above) with characteristic sagacity and accuracy, has been since (1859) described with great minuteness by Huguier. He distinguishes four varieties. The first affects the body of the uterus only, and may cause prolapsus ; the second invades the os tinea only or the sub-vaginal portion ; the third invades nearly the whole of the neck, but especially the supra-vaginal portion. When the first' and third co-exist, they make the fourth variety. To this I may add that hypertrophy of the body is very apt to cause retroversion, or retroflexion, or autever- sion. The mode in which hypertrophic elongation of the cervix uteri occurs is, I believe, as follows :— The first factor is endo-cervioitis, most com- monly caused by labour. This leads to active hypersemia and interstitial fibrin effusions. Then a process of gradual continuous eversion and growth of the cervix takes place thus -.—The ex- ternal tissues of the cervical portion are fixed to the bladder and the fundus vaginae, and being comparatively free from liability to congestion and inflammation, maintain their original condition as to leno-th and relative position. The mucous mem- brane" on the other hand, which lines the cavity of the cervix, is extremely vascular, is the primary seat of injury during labour, and of congestion and inflammation; it becomes swollen with gorged ves- sels, and serum and fibrin poured out into its sub- mucous layers; hence there is increased _ villous arowth, which can only find room by bulging out Uirough the os tincee. This process continually soincr on, the external part of the cervix remaining short, the internal thickening, bulging out, and evertinR, more and more fibrinous matter is depo- sited in the submucous tissues, which, becoming consolidated by absorption of its fluid part, elon- gation and hypertrophic thickemng of the cer x result. A fact which marks the extreme activity of the growth of mucous elements is the very re- quent association of villous polypi at the os en with this disease. There appears to be a natural limit to this process of elongation. 1 J^''^^ oo served that the total length of the o'S'^"''"^^'^''^''''f, £;:s;:„;'tr::^;=^^^^^^ ''°^i;;SSi;Ke;::d;^Xuteru.i..^ by increased weight to prolapsus, is -^J^r ufonly the result of '^-f-' " o si"" labour. It may arise from ? the after labour; also by repeated J" .j,,,! uterus not getting rest enough to rocovcr.its of