764t of more easy removal. Of course here, as in all sur- gical maladies, the age, strength, and individuality of the patient must be taken into account in forming an opinion of the ultimate result of the case. Treatment.—When abandoned to itself a foreign body may either be expelled by the mouth, nr being swallowed be evacuated by the bowel. It ma}', if impacted, escape from the air passages by setting up ulceration, and end by becoming encysted in the lung or cavity of the chest, or it may cause an abscess and escape from the surface, possibly at a considerable distance from its original posi- tion, or it may fall into the pleura and be the source of empycema. The nature of the body will to some extent determine which result will follow. In fortunate cases a foreign body may thus safelv be got rid of, but in most of the foregoing modes of expulsion, the risks are very great, both before, during, and after the process. Spontaneous removal by the mouth during the act of coughing, sneezing, or vomiting, is not unfrequent, especially when the head has been at the moment dependent, as hanging over a bed. Very long periods however may elapse before this occurs, and such disorganisation may in the mean- time have been produced as to render its removal a matter of comparatively little moment. Pi-ofessor Gross has related 57 cases of spontaneous ex- pulsion out of a total of 159 in which a foreign body was present. In some of these instances only a short period had elapsed since their intro- duction, but in many of them long intervals had passed, and all the evil influences of their presence had been fully developed. The great object of course (and that which takes precedence of all others) in the management of these cases is to get rid of the intruder. With- out this no good can be done, except perhaps the alleviation of the more severe symptoms. There should be no procrastination. The hope of spon- taneous expulsion is not great, and may, by its delusive promise, fatally delay operative proceed- ings. Any moment may bring about a fatal end by suifocation however quiescent the foreign body may for the time appear. A cough or sudden effort may displace it, and so end the struggle. Further,though the danger of suffocation be escaped, yet the most serious disease in the air tubes and lungs will eventuate from the continued residence of the foreign body, notwithstanding the evidence to the contrary apparently furnished by such cases as those collected by M. Mondiere. Hence, to avoid both an early and late source of much evil and danger, the sooner the intruder is re- moved the better. Tracheotomj' performed for this purpose is successful very much in proportion to its early performance when no secondary disease has established itself. Emetics and sternutatories experience has shown are powerless as means of procuring expulsion, and tlie former remedy has even been found injurious. Occasionally, when the specific gravity of the extraneous body was considerable, it has been removed by inverting tlie patient, as in the oft-quoted case of Mr. Brunei, when by means of a hinged platform he was inclined to an angle of 80° with tiie horizon, and after several futile attempts the coin re- moved. Several other succebsful cases are now on record in whicli the same method has been employed. The patient beijig bound firmly in a TRACHEA. chair, is turned head downwards, and then smartly struck between the shoulders; or after taking a full inspiration his chest is compressed suddenly either by the hands of a bystander, or by means of a bandage, or the trachea is manipulated to aid the process of expulsion. Tracheotomy should however precede such manoeuvres, as otherwise suffocation may be quickly caused by the foreign body falling into the chink of the glottis, or caus- ing by its contact spasm which will close that aperture. By first opening the air passage we avoid all risk of such danger, and we further pro- vide a second and highly favourable (because well placed and non-sensitive), exit for the foreign body, and one which allows of instrumental aid being employed. If the seat of impaction is high, then laryngotomy may be more fitted for our purpose than tracheotomy, but as a rule the latter opera- tion carried as low down as possible best suits these cases. Occasionally " laryngo-tracheotomy " succeeds best. The choice will mainly depend on the case. There are few exceptions recognised to the rule that the presence of a foreign body in the air passages demands tracheotomy. Even in those instances in which the intruder is of such a nature as to favour its spontaneous expulsion, yet tlie risk of fatal spasm during the act of extrusion is so great that it is highly imprudent to hazard it. If the artificial aperture is kept patent and free, expulsion maj' be almost surely counted on, though it may be considerably delayed. Favier's experi- ments demonstrate tlie ready manner in which this takes place. Frequently the foreign body is at once and very forcibly expelled whenever the windpipe has been opened. The operation of tracheotomy is not attended with much hazard if properly performed, and the patient afterwards carefully tended; and certainly the amount of risk that it adds to such cases as those under review is insignificant as compared to the good it is capable of doing. After an artificial opening has been made at a fitting part, our subsequent proceedings must depend on circumstances. If the foreign body is light it may now be spontaneously expelled by the current of air admitted to the lungs; if it be heavj' and movable we may b\- in- version bring it within reach; or if impacted instruments adapted for the purpose may be em- ployed to assist its removal. Chloroform is of much use during such manoauvres. Great gentle- ness must be used, and all hajniorrhage from the lips of the wound arrested before anything further is attempted. In the case of a child with a small windpipe, when there is much restlessness, spasm and cough, and sufFocition imminent, no more trying or difiicult position can be supposed than the operating surgeon is then placed in, and in no operation is there a call for more careful and delicate manipulation. If the foreign bodj' is impacted so that little air enters the lungs, a probe should in the first instance be used to displace it, and allow of the entrance of air both for the relief of the patient, nnd also to provide a freer outgoing current to aid the upward passages of the body. The lips of the wound should always be kept well apart, and the head bent forward so as to ficilitatc ex|)nlsioii. If forceps are employed, the risk of grasping and