I RECTUM, DISEASES OF. 527 lolmlatud tumor, probalily of this character, which were removed successfully by the ligature. {On Dis. of thti licclum, ed. 3. p. 104.) Similar vascular lobulated tumors occurring in the bladder and elsewhere have been described by Ro- kitansky under the name of villous cancer, and are cdnsidered by him to be closely allied to the medul- Liry form of that disease. (See Fuijet, Surg. Pathol. vol. ii. p. .lOii.) In none of the cases above re- corded, however, does there appear to have been any tendency to recurrence, or, indeed, any of the usual characters of malignant disease, with the exception of the tendency to hajmorrhage. The surgeons, therefore, whose names have been men- tioned are all disposed to regard them as innocent ill their nature.] Ulceration of the Rectum. [The painful ulcer, usually denominated fissure, at the verge of the anus, has been described in article Anus, and need not be further alluded to. Ulcera- tion of the rectum is also frequently present in cases of stricture and of malignant disease, as will be ex- plained in speaking of those aflfections. But inde- pendently of the above conditions, ulceration in the rectum is not of unfrequent occurrence, and is often very intractable in its character. It is met with for the most part in unhealthy or debilitated constitu- tions; being seen in persons of scrofulous habits; in those who have resided in tropical climates and have suffered from dysentery, and in those who are labouring under constitutional syphilis. Tubercular ulcer in the rectum is recognised as an occasional cause of abscess and fistula in per- sons of strumous diathesis. Suppuration, how- ever, is not a necessary accompaniment of the ulcer, but the latter may remain in a chronic con- dition, without extending beyond the mucous and submucous textures. Such an ulcer is commonly single, is circumscribed, and usually of small size. The writer has seen several cases of ulcer in the rectum in children of strumous diathesis apparently belonging to this class. In children, the irritation which they occasion not unfrequently gives rise to procidentia. Ulceration of the rectum occurring as a sequel of dysentery, or other irritation of the large intestine—is more irregular in shape, more diffused and more painful than the tuberculous ulcer. The same may be said of the ulceration which sometimes occurs in patients presenting symptoms of constitutional syphilis, and in whom there seems to be reasonable ground for concluding that the ul- ceration is one of the consequences of that disease. From whatever cause arising, ulceration in the rectum is attended with more or less pain and irritation, with tenesmus and a feeling of weight and bearing down. The motions are often streaked with matter or blood, and a purulent discharge may sometimes be observed from the anus. Bleeding to a greater or less extent is also a very common symptom. The pain varies greatly; in some it is trifling, in others exceedingly severe. It is gene- rally greatest when the ulcer is situated near the sphmcter,in which case it approaches in character to the pain observed in fissure, but as a rule the pain in Ulceration is very much less than in fissure. The situation and extent of the disease may be ascer- tained by examination of the rectum with the finger, or the speculum may be used to bring it into view, but for those accustomed to the exa- mination of the rectum, the finger will usually afford the better information, and is less painful to the patient. Treatment.—In the management of these cases, a careful inquiry is necessary in the first instance into the health and constitution of the patient, and the general treatment must be directed ac- cording to the iTiformation thus obtained. In all, the bowels must be carefully regulated, they should be kept moderately relaxed, and either constipation or diarrhosa should be equally avoided. The most suitable aperients are blue pill or the Hydrarg. c. Greta in small doses combined with colocynth, castor oil, or the confection of senna. In strumous cases cod liver oil, combined or not with iron, according to circumstances, will often be of the greatest service. In cases following dy- sentery, the astringent preparations of iron, such as the Tinct. Ferri perchloridi, or iron combined with quinine, and opium in small doses to allay irrita- tion, are especially indicated. In syphilitic cases, the iodide of potassium should be given in gradu- ally increasing doses, and persisted in for a period of two or three months if necessary. Mercury is seldom required, the ulceration, if syphilitic, seem- ing to partake of the tertiary rather than the secondary character. But whether syphilitic in its origin or not, the iodide of potassium may be prescribed with great prospect of advantage in many of these cases. Locally, the ulcerated sur- face should be stimulated with the nitrate of silver, applied to it by the aid of the speculum, every four or five days, until a healthy reparative action is set up. In the intervals, mild astringent injections, such as tannin, in the proportion of three or four grains to the ounce of water, may be injected night and morning. A small quantity only should be thrown up, in order that it may be retained in the rectum without exciting expulsive efforts. Should the nitrate of silver prove ineffectual, the surface of the ulcer may be touched with a more powerful escharotic, such as the nitric acid, or potassa fusa. When the ulcer is situated low down, impli- cating the sphincter, and there is severe pain during and after defascation, a free incision should be made through the muscle and through the lower part of the ulcerated surface. In such cases, a speedy and eftectual cure may often be obtained by this means, but the incision will be both useless and mis- chievous when the ulceration is situated higher up. Sedatives and astringents may be conveniently introduced into the rectum in the form of sup- pository. For this purpose the cocoa butter forms a very convenient vehicle, and alum, tannin, acelate of lead, or nitrate of silver may be applied in this manner; with any of these either opium or mor- phia may be combined. Ulceration in the rectum, when occupying any considerable ptjrtion of the circumference of ihe bowel, is apt to be followed by contraction when cicatrisation takes place. Therefore, when any tendency of this kind is observed, it will be de- sirable to pass a full-sized bougie into the rectum every tliree or four days. A like contraction may also take place independently of cicatrisation, and is a not unfrequent consequence of protracted un- healthy ulceration, and in this way ulceration may be the exciting cause of stricture of the rectum, though more frequently the ulceration observed in cases of stricture is the consequence, and not the j cause, of the latter disease.]