i^ATURES OF. 613 SPINE, CUR iiiinence of the shoulder, project a little posteriorly when comparison is made with those of the op- posite side, i.e. the angles of the ribs on one side proji'ct, and on the otiier recede, and, as this can only take place in consequence of rotation of the bodies of the vertebra;, the fact is of the utmost importance. Tlie prominence of the shoulder, i.e. the scapula, depends upon the posterior projection of the ribs on the corresponding side, and when tlie prominence of the scapula and the angles of tlic ribs are considered in conjunction with the flattening or depression of the spinous processes in the dorsal region (without any lateral deviation), we may most confidently diagnose the existence of internal curvature of the spine, and the case must, without delay, be submitted to appropriate treatment. TREATAIENT OP LORDOSIS IN THE DORSAL REGION. Lovdosis in the dorsal region consecutive to caries and angular curvature in the lower cervical, or in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions, does not require any special treatment. It is essentially a natural effort to restore the equili- brium of the body disturbed by the angular cur- vature, but if the destructive disease of the spine be treated during its progress, upon the principle of mechanical support previously described, both the angular and the consecutive lordosis-curvature ■will be much less than if no mechanical support had been applied. The object of mechanical support is not in any degree to straighten or di- minish by pressure the angular projection when formed, but, when the spine is properly supported during the progress of destructive disease, the resulting angular curvature will not take place to a greater extent than is absolutely necessary for curative purposes, i.e. bony anchylosis, and there- fore the consecutive curve will be proportionably small; wliereas, without mechanical support, the angular projection is generally much larger than necessary for curative purposes, and the consecu- tive curvatures are proportionably excessive, fre- quently producing an unsightly external deformity, where very little need have existed. With regard to the treatment of the other form of lordosis in the dorsal region, existing in some cases of the so-called lateral curvature of the spine, this will be more fully described when the treatment of lateral curvature is considered, but essentially it should consist in partial lying down, i.e. to the extent of four or six hours a day, com- bined with the use of a spinal instrument with a St el.plate, acting upon the principle of horizontal rotation. On the whole, the prospects of such a case, even when slight, are worse than in a more marked case of lateial curvature, with greater lateral deviation of the apices of the spinous pro- cesses, and prominence of the shoulder. TREATMENT OF LORDOSIS IN THE CERVICAL REGION. Lordosis occurs much less frequently in the cer- vical than in the dorsal or lumbar regions of the spine, and is nearly always the result of caries or destructive disease of the spine, occurring in the upper cervical vertebric, generally in children. The head is drawn backwards and the face di- rected upwards; the larynx proji^cts forwards, and it is hardly possible to feel the spinous processes of the cervical vertebree at the back of the neck. Any attempt to alter the position of the head is accompanied with pain, as the disease is generally progressing when these cases are brought under our notice. We may sometimes see lordosis in the cervical region as a persistent condition after the destruc- tive disease has subsided, but then the position of the head is more natural than above described ; the frequency, however, with which caries in the upper cervical region terminates fatally, neces- sarily makes these cases very rare. In only one instance have I seen lordosis in the cervical region of congenital origin, and in this case it evidentlj' depended upon muscular con- traction, and was part of a more general aflfec- tion involving the muscles of the trunk and limbs. Lordosis in the neck, either coexisting with, or consecutive to, caries of the cervical vertebrae, does not admit of the application of mechani- cal support so easily as when situated in the dorsal or lumbar regions ; but thick gutta-percha splint-like supports passing upwards from the shoulders, along the neck, to the occiput, may be adjusted so that the weight of the head would be to some extent removed from the neck, and transferred through the large and strong splint di- rectly to the shoulders, and all motion of the neck prevented. POSTERIOR CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. Cyphosis—KV(pcea'is, from Kvcpuw, to bend or crook forwards.—Curvature of the spine in a pos- terior direction, with the convexity projecting backwards, occurs chiefly in the dorsal region, as an increase of the natural curvature from several causes, and is most frequently produced by mus- cular debility, or the long continuance of a stoop- ing position, as in certain occupations, &c,; hence this form of spinal curvature most frequently oc- curs in children and old people, but it may be produced by other causes at different periods of life. 1. T?i infancy posterior curvature of the spine is the constant result of general debility, and weakly infants, unable to sit up in the nurse's lap long after the period at which children generally hold themselves somewhat erect in the sitting po- sition, are frequently brought to us. Sometimes such children do not appear to be imperfectly nourished—they may even be fat, and look well —hut there is a general want of muscu'ar power difficult to explain. At this early period of life the spine has not, as yet, assumed its natural an- tero-posterior curvatures in the dorsal and lumbar regions, and is naturally straight. Muscular and ligamentous debility will, therefore, easily cause the spine to assume the form of a large posterior curvature when the sitting position is attempted ; and if such a child were habitually nursed in the sitting position, and especially by a nurse who al- ways carries the child on the same arm, a perma- nent deviation of the spine in the posterior direc- tion would result, generally combined with some degree of lateral curvature. Treatment.—Such cases are best treated by a combination of local su])port to the spine and constitutional treatment. For local support, it is best to employ a very thick kind of leather, pre- pared in a peculiar way known to some iuslrument