TALIPES. ■ 680 malleolus to its first insertion into the navicular l)one which it immediately reaches, as this bone is displaced by the contraction of the posterior tibial muscle, so as to be drawn directly under the inner malleolus, with which it forms a spurious articulation. Surgically spealcing, it is important that these deviations should be borne in mind ; and in reference to the posterior tibial tendon,they prove that this tendon cannot be divided, " a little belovv and anterior to the tip of the internal malleolus," a situation in which the operation is recommended to be performed by some surgical authorities. The tendon of the peroneus longiis passes directly downwards, with an inclination backwards across the outer surface of the os calcis ; and then, turning round the inferior surface of this bone, instead of entering the groove in the cuboid bone, it passes transversely inwards, across the concavity of the foot to its insertion. This is therefore a shortened instead of an elongated tendon, as it is generally described, and sometimes requires division. Vessels and Nerves.—The vessels and nerves deviate in their direction in adaptation to the deformed positon of the foot, but retain pretty nearly their normal relations to the tendons, so that these deviations are unimportant in a practical point of view. They are diminished in size only in proportion to the generally defective state of nutrition of the limb and imperfect growth of the muscles. PATHOLOGY OF CONGENITAL VARUS. The etiology, or cause of congenital varus, is at at the present day a question of scientific interest, rather than of direct importance, since the patho- logical conditions existing at birth, and the prin- ciples of treatment, have been satisfactorily de- termined, and the complete and permanent curability of the affection established beyond the possibility of doubt. The theories of arrest of development and mal- formation having been satisfactorily disproved by dissection—the malformation of the astragalus, which is shown to exist at the period of birth, being satisfactorily proved to depend upon mal- position of the OS calcis and navicular bones, caused by the muscles of the calf and the anterior and posterior tibial muscles, and therefore an effect rather than a producing cause of the deformity— the difference of opinion at present existing has reference to the doctrine of spasmodic muscular action from cerebro-spinal irritation, and the doctrine of malposition of the foetus with pressure in ulero. The arguments for and against these different theories 1 have elsewhere given at length.—Club- foot : its Causes, Palhologv, ("id Treatment. By W. Adams. (London, 1866), p. 195. If diffi- culties arise in reconcilnig all the facts with the tlionry of spasmodic origin, it will be equally ap- parent that the arguments in support of malposition and pressure are exceedingly weak. On the whole, I am disposed to agree with the dynamic or spas- modic rather than the mechanical theory as applied to talipes varus. The weight of evidence appears to be in favour of this opinion. Heredilary Transmission. — Congenital talipes varus is not only very apt to be repeated in the same family—i.e., it is by no means an uncommon event for the same mother to have several club- footed children—but also a very marked tendency to a reproduction of the deformity is sometimes witnessed in two or three generations, and as a rule we find the kind of deformitj', and the limbs affected in the children, to be the same as in the parent. Numerical Importance.—In a statistical report of 10,217 cases of deformities of all kinds, pub- lished by Mr. Tamplin in the London Medical Gazette'm 1851, and treated at the Royal Ortho- paedic Hospital, 1780 cases of club-foot, including all varieties, both congenital and non-congenital, are recorded. The relative proportions in which the different varieties of congenital club-foot existed were as follows :— Congenital talipes varus 688 „ talipes varus of one foot, and valgus of the other in the same patient 15 Congenital talipes valgus 42 „ talipes calcaneus ...,19 Total of congenital forms 764 The 688 cases of congenital talipes varus were thus distributed:— Affecting the right foot, only . . . 182 „ left „ „ . . . . 138 both feet . . . . . . .363 683 The five other cases were of a compound nature ; in two of them both knees being also contracted, in one the wrists and fingers ; one accompanied with talipes calcaneus of the opposite extremity, and one with malformation of the toes. It may also be mentioned that in two of the above cases there was spina bifida coexisting. Complications of Talipes raci/s.—Congenital varus is sometimes found to coexist with other con- tractions and deformities of the limbs, and also with some malformations generally affecting the nervous centres—the brain and spinal cord. The following are the complications most frequently met with :— Weakness of Knee-joints.—It is by no means un- common to find a very lax condition of all the ligaments of the knee-joints, the effect of which is apparently to increase the severity of the deformity, and to perpetuate a turning-in of the foot in the act of walking, after the deformity of the foot has been cured. This defect can only be controlled by steel supports carried up to the waist, and connected with a pelvic belt, which the child may be obliged to wear for several years. Slif Knees.—We occasionally see cases of club- foot associated with a rigid extension of the knee- joints. The child is born with the legs extended upon the thighs, and the thighs flexed upon the body; and generally, if not invariably, these cases are breech-presentations. Talipes calcaneus is more connnon in these cases than varus. Ihe te rudimen'arj', and traceable with placed, probably lying on the outer condyle, and vei'v small.