686 TALIPES. ■been already referred to. Here, therefore, it need only he reniniked that the advocates of the iiieclianicrtl theory—i.e. position and pressure in vlero—ur>>e its application very slnmgly iii ex- phmation of congenital talipes valgus. Possibly this theory may apply to some slight cases of valgus, especially wlien associated with depression of the heel—cases which might be clas>ed as examples of calcaneo-valgus; but to me it appears very unlikely that the mechanical cause could operate so as to produce the elevation ol the OS calcis, which generally, if not always, exists in BBvei-e cases of valgus. I am, therefore, este.i- tially an advocate for the dynamic theory, i.e. spasmodic muscular contraction, as applied equally to the production of valgus, and of all the con- genitiil forms of club-foot. b. Ahinierical importance.—It has already been stated that, as a congenital affection, talipes valgus is of comparatively rare occurrence; out of 704 cases of congenitiil cUib-fuot of all varieties, only forty-two cases of simple talipes valgus are re- corded, and fifteen cases of talipes valgus of one foot associated with varus of the other foot. In the forty-two cases of simple valgus, the right foot only was affected in fifteen instances, the left foot only in ten instances, and both f-et in seventeen cases. Congenital valgus, therefore, more fre- quentlv affects one than both feet—the reverse occurs"in conf;enital varus, and in the non-con- genital form of valgus. c. Cuexislence of iaiipes va!(/us wiiJi other defor- mities of the opposite foot—hi fifteen cases above referred to, talipes valgus of one foot was associated with talipes vaius of the opposite foot. d. Coexistence of talqjes valgus luith malforma- tion of the bo7ics of the ley : such as— 1. Defective gruicih of the ley-hones, below the knee, the tibia and fibula being from half an inch to an inch shorter than the corresponding bones of the opposite leg; of this several instances have fallen under my observation. 2. A sharp curcatiire forwards of the tibia and fibula in the lower third.—This complication is occasionally met with, and the legs thus affected do not continue to grow at their normal rate, so that the patients are permanently lame. In these cases also there is generally seme malformation, and, as a rule, a deficiency of some of the toes. 3. Malformation of the outer malleolus, probably ■with fusion of the fibula with the tibia. This complication has fallen under my observation in a few instances, but it has been impossible to ascertain the precise character of the malforma- ' Prognosis.—Except in the cases last mentioned, in which the deformity is associated with malfor- mation of the bones of the leg, a favourable prog- nosis may always be given in cases of congenital valgus, as there are no defects calculated perma- nently to interfere with the anatomical and physiological perfection of the foot. tllEATMENT OF CoNGENIT.AL VALGUS.—Slight cases of eversion of the foot, unaccompanied with rigid muscular contraction, are frequeiiily rectified by the manipulations adopted by e.vpcrienced nurses. Cases of a more severe degree of de- formity, but still without rigid muscular contrac tion, may be cured meclianicidly, within a few months of birth, without tenotomy. For these cases it is frequently sufficient to employ a simple metal splint, softly padded, and capable of being bent to any shape, ajiplied along the inner side of the foot and leg; to this the font is bandaged, and wilh occasional alteration in the form of the splint, the eversion may be overcome and the arch of the foot restored. The Scarpa's shoe with tlie spring placed on the inner side, and a pad placed so as to support the arch of the foot, also answers very well; but I prefer the app;iratui known as tlia valgus splint, with a pad to support the arch of the loot, attached to a spring at the end of the splint. The cure of congenital valgus, when severe, even in the infant, can only be accomplished by a com- bination of the same general principles of treatment, including the operative, mechanical, and physiolo- gical means described as necessary to the successful treatment of congenital varus and other deformi- ties. In cases of a moderate degree of severity, but accompanied with rigid muscular contraction, all the tendons requiring division—i.e. the peronei and extensor longus tendons, with or without the teudo-Achillis—may be divided at once; but in the moat severe and rigid cases, it is advisable to divide the treatment into two stages, as in varus; the object of the first stage being to overcome the eversion, transverse rotation, and bending upwards of the anterior portion of the foot,—to bring the foot on a straight line with the leg,—and when contraction of the tendo-Achillis exists, to convert the valgus into simple equinus ; and the object of the second stage being to obtain the natural extent of flexion at the ankle-joint when this is limited by contraction of the tendo-Achillis. The mechanical appl'aiices necessarj^ after di- vision of the tendons must vary according to the severity of the case. In the slighier case*, the valgus splint, with a pad to support the arch of the foot, will be sufficient; but in the more severe cases occasionally met with in youth, or at a later period of life, in which the treatment is necessarily divided into two stages, the splint and pad may be employed for the first stage, and the Scarpa's shoe, with the addition of a spring and pad on the inner side, for the second stage. Physiological Treatment.—As so .n as the foot is restored to its natural position, passive ex- ercise should be commenced, as in varus, wilh the object of bringing the muscles into play, and ob- taining a well-balanced state of muscular aciion, such as is essential to the preservation of the form of the foot in a healthy condition. After-treatment. — After the removal of the deformitv, it will be necessary for llie patient to wear some form of retentive apparatus, m order to allow all the structures—bones, ligaments, and muscles—to adapt themselves to the improved po- sition of the foot, and to guard against relapse. In the daytime, walking exercise of course being permitted, the patient should wear ft boot with » steel support on the outside, carried up to the call of the leg, and having a free-joint at the ankle; inside the boot a pad of vulcanised ""'■"■•''^^.''f should be placed, so as to support the arch ol ne foot, and a leather strap, attached to the inner side of tiic boot, should pass across the ankle-jomt ana beconnectJd by a buckle with the steel suppor n the outer side of the leg. This apparatus will hold the foot in its natural position dun g pro- gression.and will elfectually support the arch of the