and is entirely dependent upon it for the continu- ance of its activity. If, therefore, the generative activitj' be excessive, it will necessarily draw off some portion of the aliment destined for the main- tenance of the fabric at large. It may be univer- sally observed that where the nutritive functions are particularly active in supporting the individual, the reproductive sj'stem is in a corresponding de- gree undeveloped, and vice versa." Instances of this as a cause leading to generative debility or impotence come daily under our notice in the human being. It is likewise becoming verv well known amongst breeders of the finest stock. At the Veterinary College, various opportunities occur of seeing this exemplified. It is noticed that impotence in bulls occurs rarely in the com- moner sorts. Those sent to the College, in conse- quence of not getting stock, are found to be the highly-bred animals; and this is not to be wondered at, as competitors for prizes care little about proli- fic bearers. They wish animals that produce fat readily. If we had the statistics of these high- bred cattle, we should find that the high prices . obtained for them are fully warranted, as the sire aad dams are anything but prolific. The prac- tical deduction from these observations tends to prove that the best remedy for all such cases of impotence is Abernethy's prescription to live on a shilling a day and earn it. There is reason to suppose that in many of the class first alluded to, the testis has itself undergone fatty degenera- tion; but from facts that have lately come under the writer's observation, impotence arising from corpulency is by no means a hopeless case, pro- vided exercise and attention to diet can be, and are, observed. That impotence in males frequently depends upon fat may be considered an established fact. There is every reason to believe that the same cause occasionally induces sterility in females. A large farmer in Suffolk lately informed the author that he is often disappointed when he wishes to breed from cart mares. This year, out of hia own workmg stock of twenty-eight horses, eleven mares did not sta7id, greatly to his disappointment and loss, as a yearling cart colt is worth 20^., and the mare ceases work only one month before and one month after parturition. This sterility he attri- butes to the high condition his cattle are kept in by the carters, who, proud of their teams, do not care to see them in foal. To obviate it, fresh stal- lions have been purchased, and with as little success, sterility still prevailing. Among these eleven mares, there were young as well as old ones, but none of them proved in foal. . Impotence dependent upon the structure of the ^"''''■T-Where, however, manifest impotence ex- ists tyhich cannot be accounted for by the acci- dental causes, so to speak, of early excess, or tie predommance of the nutrition over the other lunctions of the frame, it is necessary to look and sometimes rather minutely, into the structure of ine parts. It will generally be found that this kind ot impotence depends on some lesion or imperfect aevelopement of tlie erectile tissue. The penis may oe, lor instance, of an unusual length, but thin, particularly at its base. It is terminated by a large togiform glans which extends beyond the cor- pora cavernosn, and is almost always uncovered, or at least imperfectly covered by the prepuce. Aoese massive penes, which seem to thin as they IMPOTENCE. ' 5 approacli the point of their insertion, are almost invariably deficient in energy. In fact, the erec- tions are rarely complete, particularly towards the base. Where, therefore, this peculiarity of forma- tion is very marked, permanent and hopeless im- potence may, and probably will, be found to exist. On this subject Lallemand remarks:—"The con- sistence of the erectile tissue differs greatly in individuals of the same age, independently of their volume and form. When I have noticed the penis completely hanging on the scrotum, the corpora cavernosa empty, flabby, without any resistance or elasticity under the finger, I have always re- marked that the function was, to say the least, not energetic, and a cure, if possible, difficult." (Vol. ii. p. 187.) A very small and shrivelled condition of the organs may equally produce permanent impotence. This is described by Lallemand thus :—" There is unnatural developement of the prepuce, depending probably on the unusually small size of the penis. The rudimentary state of the erectile tissue as well as of the testicles, necessarily allows of but little energy in the functions of these fundamental parts of the generative apparatus." (Vol. ii. p. 18S.) Again, we find on the other hand that in some cases the penis is hard and inelastic, the coverings are firm and indurated, and not contractile. The cause of this state usually is that in consequence of abuse, or too frequent use, or by accident, blood has been effused into the trabecular tissue ; and in- flammation has occasioned the deposition of lymph, which has not been reabsorbed, but remains "in the shape of small indurated masses. The deposition of this lymph in the coverings of the penis causes them to lose their elasticity, and the organ becomes non-erectile, and the man remains impotent. When we remember the variety of complex and consen- taneous actions which perfect sexual congress re- quires, it seems really astonishing that impotence should not be more common than it is. Thus there must be to make coition complete — 1, Excitement of the glans penis; 2, Suffusion of blood through the organ; 3, Contraction of the bulbo-cavemosi and ischio-cavernosi muscles; 4, Welling back of the blood of the bulb in the corpus spongiosum urethrje; 5, Compression of the dorsal vein of the penis by the anterior portion of the bulbo-caver- nosi muscles. Now if any one of these phenomena IS checked or prevented, practical impotence is the necessary result. Thus if the venous plexuses which make up the spongy portion of the urethra present varicose tumours, or if the muscle is paralysed, the blood not arriving in sufficient quantity at the glans, the primitive excitement will not exist, and the erethism will not occur; and as the sensibility of the glans ceases, the erection will subside. Prognosis.—Considering then the nature of the causes of impotence, it is not wonderful that in the face of such serious nervous organic lesions the prognosis should often bo unfavourable, espe- cially in the more severe cases or in those instances in which the affection has been of long standing. Experience tells us that even where the only cause is early abuse, and too great demands upon the nervous system at a time when it was unequal to its duties, the condition can only be remedied if at all, by strengthening the constitution generally, and allowing it to rally and repose, in fact, by pursuing the exactly opposite course to that which