ULCERS. powder, such as starch or chalk, dusted over it, and covered with a dry piece of lint and a bandage from the toea. If crusts form by the discharge and powder combining, they should be removed by the application of a poultice for a few hours, or by covering the part with strips of cloth on which tile tar ointment has been spread, leaving these on for the night, and removing them smartly next morning, so as to take the crusts off at the same time, and then resuming the dry powder and ban- dage. The writer has had much to do with these cases, and has (contrary to what is often stated as regards the management of eczematous sores) found more benefit attend the dry treatment than any other, when the affection was not very severe. When there is a very profuse exudation, a strong solution of lunar caustic brushed over the part, followed by careful bandaging, suits well, but wet strapping has, in the writer's experience, generally proved hurtlul. Ointments should never be used. It will, of course, be necessary to administer appro- priate constitutional remedies in those cases in which the local affection is evidently dependent on a constitutional cause. " Var icose " ulcers especially require well-ad- justed bandaging. The state of the veins on which they depend, may be such as to demand the adoption of some of those many methods which are elsewhere (see " Varix ") described as aiming at their occlusion, but such is rarely the case when palliative measures are judiciously employed. Water strapping, or Baynton's method, are especially adapted for these ulcers. Elastic stock- ings shonld not be used so long as the sore is open, as the discharge soon destroys their tissue, and unequal pressure is the result, and dressings can- not be applied to the sore without unduly augment- ing the pressure there. When, however, the ulcer is healed, and support is required for the veins, then such stockings are very appropriately em- ployed. Our local measures must be regulated according to the state of the sore, combined with such means as will take off the pressure of the column of blood and support the dilated and weak veins. If the sore is irritable and the part swelled, we must keep the patient in bed, and elevate the limb before any bandaging is attempted, and any internal affection which may complicate local matters treated on general principles. The liver and bowels should be unloaded ; the menstruation, if irregular or scanty, cared for; and displacement of the womb corrected, and gout or other constitu- tional state combated. The limb must be always supported after the healing of these sores, by a bandage or an elastic stocking, and if the latter is employed, the limb should be washed with soap and water, and hard rubbed every night before going to bed, and again douched with cold water and rubbed up towards the trunk while it is kept elevated, before putting on the stocking in the morning. Sometimes, though rarely, after the long exist- ence of varicose ulcers, the tissues iiave become so changed, that healing is impossible,] and am- putation must be performed, if an actual ne- cessity exists for removing the sores, from their having become a source of exhaustion and annoy- ance. If an ulcer depends on the presence of any foreign body, such as a piece of dead bone, or ten- don, or a ball, these must of course be removed. 819 and any sinus present opened up and made to heal by granulation. Ulcers of special parts, such as the tongue, throat, rectum, penis, &c. will be considered under other sections of this work. These sores are usually specific] George II. B. Macleod. Consult Michael Underwood, On Ulcers of the Lees, Szc. 8vo. Lond. 1783 ; and Surgical Tracts, 3rd ed. 1799. B.Beit, On the Theory and Manag-ement of Ulcers, &c. ed. Svo. 1791. J. Merk. De Curationi- bus Ulcerum difficilium praesertim in Cruribus Ob- yiorum, 4to. Goelt. 1776. G. A. Brambilla, Delle Ulcere delle Estremite Inferiore, 4to. Milano, 1793. BayntonU Descriptive Ac-ount of a New Method of Treating Old Ulcers of the Le^s, 1799, ed. •>. Svo Bristol, 1799. Whatelij, On the Cure of Wounds and Ulcers on the Leffs, without Rest. Svo. l.ond. 1799. Sir Everard Home's Practical Obs. on Ulcers on the Legfs, edit. 2, ISO I. John Bell, Principles of hurirery, vol. i. 1801. J. Hunter, On the Blood, liitlammation, &c. C. Curtis, An Account of the Diseases of India, &c. with Obs. on Ulcers and the Hospital Sores of that Country, &c. Svo. Edin. 1807 Sir Benjamin Brodie, On Varicose Veins of the Lcs in Med.-Cliir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 195, &c. P.J. Roux, Voyage fait a Londres en 1814, ou Parallele de la (-hirurgie angloise avec la Chirurjie francoise, p 142, &c. Paris. 1815. Dr. John Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 423, &c. Edin. 1813. Dr. Dewar, On the Treatment of Sinuous Ulcers, in Med.-Chir Trans, vol. vii. p. 482, &c. Sir A. Cooper's Lectures' vol. 1. 1824. C. Rust, De Ulcerum Dia-nosi, et (Elio- lo?.if Nonnulla, 4to. Berolini, 1831. P. DuchAtelot, bur la Veritable Cause des Ulcferes qui affectent fr^- quemment les extr^mit^s inf^rieures d'un grand iiombre d'artisans de la ville de Paris; in Annales Q Hygiene publique, &c. t. iv. p. 239, 1830. The siages or several cutaneous affections, attended with ulceration, have been excellently described by Wil- I'S"!-^''"^'"'''"' Alibert, Rayer. and others. R A r^lafford. On the Deep and Excavated Ulcer, 8vo" Lond. 1829. John Higginbottom, On the Nitrate of Silver, Svo Lond 1829. J. C. Spender, On Ulcerous Diseases of the Leg, Svo. Lond. 1835. Fred. Skey, On the Cure of various Forms of Ulcer and Granu- lating Wounds, Svo. Lond. 1837. Robert Liston. On Practical Surgery, p. 261. Svo. Lond. 1837. P. F Blandm, m Diet, de M^d. et de Chir. pratiques, art. Ulcire. .J.Arstruc'Vrmti desTumeurs etdes Ulcferes Pans, 17a9. Bologninus, De Cura Ulcerum exterio- rum, Chirac Dissertation on Wounds, 1759. Rowleu Essay on the Cure of Ulcerated Legs, without llfst 1,71. i?Oi/e)-, Maladies chirurgicales, vol. ii Paris' 1826. G. M. Scavi/ii, Sull' Eflicacia del Calorico nella cura delle Ulcere. Torino, 1814. Amard, 116- moire snr les Ulceres en g^n^ral. Paris, 18U2 Ca- rault, Essai sur les Ulceres de la Peau. Paris! J8I9 Vincent's Observations on Surgery, Compendiuni de Chirurgie pratique, par Denonvilliers et Gosselin vol. I. p. 557, et scq. [Paget, in Holmes' System of Surgery (18601 and Lectures on Surgical Pathology 1863. jEn'cAicn'i'Science and Art of Surgery 1864 Syme's Principles of Surgery, 1863. miter's System of Surgery, 1864. Critchett, On Ulcers. Lond 1849 Nelaton, Eldmens de Pathologic cjiirurgicale Paris" 1844, vol. i. Vidat (de Caseis) Traitd de Pathol' externe. Paris, 1861, vol. i. Chelitis' System of Surgery, edit, by South, vol. i. Rigaud, Des Ulc&res en gtfntfral. Thfese. Paris, 1839. P'irrie, Principles of surgery. Lawrence, Lectures on Surgery. Lond 1863. Nimn, Varicose Veins and Ulcers. Lond' 1852. Macleod, Outlines of Surgical Diagnosis' Lond. 1864, "Ulcers." Scotl, On Diseases of Joints' by Smith. Lond. 1857, p. 87. Trastour, on Iodide of Potash in Ulcers of the Legs. Ann. de Th(?rap. 1860, p. 233. Hutchinson, Report on Rodent Ulcer Med. Times and Gazette, Aug. 18, 25, and Sept. 8 15, and 29, i860. Bruce, on Congenital Ulcer of the Leg, Edin. Monthly, Nov. 1861. p. 492. Houghton On Hunt's method of Treating Ulcers ; Brit' Med' .lour. 1862, vol. i. pp. 91 and 129. Volkmann, On Healing of Ulcers under Scabs; Arch. f. klin. Chir- lii. p. 272. Tart, On the Treatment of obstinate Ulcers by Tiiict. of Cantharides; Prov. Med and Surg. Journ. Oct. 1851, Short, On same Rcmedv in Scrofulous Ulcers; Indian Annals of Med. Scieiicek 3 G 2