9G6 thiit, as a rule, mercury is injurious in this class of affections ; tliey show themselves at a period when the direct influence of the syphilitic poison appears to have passed away, and to have left behind it a cachexia, which manifests itself in the destructive conditions above enumerated. These are essen- tially asthenic in their origin, and the remedies re- quired are those which will repair the failure of nutrition and restore the debilitated powers. Good diet and stimulants, with pure air and other fa- vourable hygienic influences, are essential; but, in addition to" these, we have in the salts of iodine a remedy the value of which it is impossible to ex- aggerate. Amongst them the iodide of potassium holds deservedly the highest repute. Under its influence, rupial ulcerations heal in the most re- markable manner, periosteal swellings disappear, the gummatous tumours known as soft nodes are rapidly absorbed, and the strength and weight of the patient re increased. It is true that he is not at once permanently cured; itisnot to be expected that so serious a diathesis can be changed in a few weeks, although its outward manifestations have been removed and destructive action has been arrested. The symptoms will return again and again, and the remedy must be again and again resorted to, with the result, in the great majority of cases, of a cessation of all outward symptoms and the ultimate permanent restoration to health of the patient. It is a mistake to suppose that a recurrence of symptoms is an indication of the failure of the remedy ; it is, on the contrary, a reason for its repetition ; and even the appearance of fresh symptoms during its use should be regarded as an additional motive to persevere and to aug- ment the quantity given. The iodide of potassium shoiild be commenced in doses of three grains, to be gradually increased to fifteen or twenty grains, thrice dail)'. It agrees best, and its efliciency is increased, when combined with carbonate of ammonia, and administered in a diluted condition. The decoction of sarsaparilia is an excellent vehicle, and is in itself useful as a ionic. The iodides of sodium and ammonium are inferior, in our opinion, to the iodide of potassium; but when the latter disagrees, and produces dryness of the throat, headache, and coryza, they may be substituted for it with advantage, as they are cer- tainly not so liable to be attended with these un- pleasant effects. We have not met with a case in which one or other of the iodides could not be borne, if the dose at the commencement was suflTi- ciently reduced—and in some cases it is necessary to make it as small as half a grain—when care- fully, and by slow degrees, toleration will be es- tablished. In all cases the gradual increase of dose is a point of great practical importance. It is by persisting in the same dose that the good effect is often missed, that disappointment ensues, and the remedy is discredited. We are not prepared to offer any explanation ot the mode in which iodide of potassium acts so beneficially in tertiary syphilis. It is known to be a diuretic, but it can hardly be on this that its induence depends. It is also known to act as a solvent for some metallic substances which may have become incorporated in the tis!-ues, of lead for example, and, there is good reason to believe, of mercury. Hence its influence in causing salivation, as it not unlreiiuciitly docs, when hist given to those who have taken too large doses of nu-rcuiiaU. VENEREAL DISEASE. In this way it may prove beneficial by getting rid of mercury which has been given in excess, or per- severed in too long. But it is not only from their antagonism to mercury that the iodides are bene- ficial in tertiary syphilis, for their effects are equally manifest when no mercury at all has been given, and also in those cases in which the tertiary stage sets in, as it sometimes does, without having been preceded by the secondary. Wlialever may be their mode of operation, they are found to be the most powerful of all stimulants and tonics for per- sons who labour under the cachexia of tertiary syphilis. The outward symptoms disappear under their use, the health improves, and in the end, in most cases, permanent recovery is the result. The fact that salivation is sometimes induced when the iodides are given at the end of a mercurial course, has, we believe, given rise to the idea that they stimulate and rouse up the mercurial influence, and hence has arisen the custom of prescribing them in secondary affections, after mercury has been dis- continued. We do not agree with this practice, although we know it is a very common one. If mercury has been given at the proper time, and has not been given in excess, it is better to leave it to do its own work, than to complicate matters by following it with a remedy which is antagonistic to it in its action, and which is inappropriate to tiiat particular stage of the disease. From what has been said, it may be inferred that we are not in favour of the combination of mercury with the iodides in the treatment of syphilis, al- though the practice is frequently adopted. A very favourite method is to give the perchloride of mer- cury in combination with the iodide of potassium in secondary affections. The result is, of course, a solution of biniodide of mercury with iodide of potassium in excess. This appears to be " blowing hot and cold" at the same time, since the one remedy tends to neutralise the effect of the other ; and, in most cases, where the one is necessary the other is injurious. If there are any.cases in which such a combina- tion is desirable, it would appear to be those which are passing through the transition period between the secondary and tertiary stages, when the symp- toms partake somewhat of the character of both periods—when, for instance, there are patches of scaly or papular eruption coincidentally with dis- ease of periosteum and bone, with recurrent intiB, chronic enlargement of the testis, or gummatous swellings.] [S),'pJn!is affccHng Iiitmial Organs—in- jurious influence of constitutional syphilis on many of the internal organs have been of late hrought under the notice of the profession by l^""- "."J!"' in an able paper published in Guy's Nospilal m- ports, vol. ix., 1863. Dr. Wilks is not satisfied with the division of the venereal disease in» primary, secondary, and tertiary states; he wmua recognise only two conditimis of the d's^?*, constitutional syphilis, and syphilitic «ehoxia, « the sequche of syphilid. In constitutional sjph s he holds that there is always a tondencv to tle deposit of a fibro-plastic lymph, as e^-empbfi d " the indurated sore.in tubercular c"igneouscrup^^^^^^^^^^^ in nodes, in subcutaneous and submucous tubercle., in deposits in the tongue The deposits of fibro pla.stic material met with in thepost-moriem examinations or i-t and other muscles, occasionally III