TRACHEOTOMY. took place from a large vein on the oesophngiis, nnd '. in others, fistulous communications between the i trachea and oesophagus have resulted. i 3rd. liilroducimj the caiuda is not always easy. It has been pushed between the trachea and the overlying tissues, and also between the lining membrane of the windpipe and the cartilages, by i no less able a surgeon tlian Dupuytren. Sometimes in young children its introduction is impeded by fat. The elasticity of the canal makes the wound in it very ready to close, and if the orifice is small and the tube or forceps not introduced before tlie knife is withdrawn, the opening in it may be lost. It is to keep the opening patent till the canula is in position that the various " Dilators " have been invented. Gerdy used an elastic catheter, and Dionis a probe, as a guide, and these or the finger will frequently suffice as a mere guide to the ori- fice. Trousseau's dilator consists of a double- limbed instrument, like a pair of forceps, having the points turned outwards, so as to fix the edges of the wound, and a spring between the blades which keeps them separate when the pressure of the hand is removed. They are of course inserted closed, and then the blades are allowed to separate. Chassaignac uses a long-limbed instrument, the points of which meet at an obtuse angle, and allow of the passage of the tube between them. Garnier, Marshall Hall, Marjolin,Garius, Laborde and other have varied the form or arrangement of such in- struments. They are all, however, somewhat objectionable from the space that they occupy in the wound. Dilators of wire fulfil the end very well. The double hook, whose points are separa- ted by pressing the handle, or by sliding up a ring, as Mr. Maunder suggests, may also be useful, as they serve to fix the trachea while being opened, and then, as their points are allowed to separate, give passage to tlie canula. Reference was before made to Mr. Worthington's director guide. In passing a canula into the trachea the wound should be first accurately seen, and then the point of the tube carefully introduced, observing the curve and its relationship to the direction of tlie windpipe. Trousseau recommends that a piece of oiled silk or caoutchouc should be interposed be- tween the canula and the skin. Trachea tubes are of endless shapes and modes of construction. They vary in size according to the cjilibrt; o: the windpipe into which they are to be introduced. The idea is that they should priivide as nearly as possible the same area as the glottis, whose function they are in some measure to replace. In adults they should allow of 30 cubic inches of air to pass at each respiration, and in children half as much. Trousseau givfs tables indicating the size, curve, length, <\;c. of canula;, according to the patient's age, founded on careful measurements of the dia- meter of the trachea. So, too, Guersant recognises four sizes for use in children between two and fif- teen years of age, but such minute distinctions are not by any means necessary, as a lair guess may in any case be made of what size of luho we should employ. Guersant's numbers are No. 1 f<ir infants from 1 to 4 years, a canula (i niillinictcrs in diinne- ter and h centimi'ters in length; No, "2 for children from 4 to fj, ii niillinictcrs in diameter ; No. 3 for children from }) to I'i, 10 millimeters in dianuiler, and fi centimeters in length ; No. 4 for those from 1'2 to l.'j, the same length as the last, and 12 mil- limeters in diameter. A fifth size comprehends canulas for adults. Its measurement is IS milli- meters in diameter. Since the above was written the author has seen a table of Mr. Marsh's measurements of the trachea and cricoid at various ages. It is given in vol. iii. of St, Bar- tholomew's Hospital Reports, to which the reader is referred. As the perfect freedom of the tube is of the utmost moment, double tubes (as first employed by George Martins) should always be used, as then the inner one can be taken out and cleaned without displacing the outer. The inner tube should slightly exceed the outer in length, and should be easily withdrawn and inserted, otherwise those left in charge (as happened in a case of the writer's) may be unable to withdraw it, or at least fear to use the necessary force, and so allow the passage to become closed. The outer orifice or shield of the tube should lie flat on the neck, being parallel with the surface, and then the curve of the tube should correspond to the direction of the windpipe in which it lies, the point not projecting against either of its walls, as it would ao if the curve is too great or too small. The point, too, should not be too sharp, for fear of causing ulcera- tion in the interior of the windpipe. This has been known to arise, and fatal hajinorrhage from the innominate artery to follow on the fifth day after the operation. The instrument is mure easily in- troduced if the point is somewhat conical (an ar- rangement, however, which, to a small extent, di- minishes the calibre of the tube), or if, like Dr. Ful- ler's canula, it can be contracted at its point when it is being passed. Trachea tubes are best fabricated in two separate portions, and they should be solid, not having the rim soldered on to the tubular part, but forming an indivisible part of it, as then the risk of its separating and allowing the tube to i'all into the windpipe (which has several times occurred) will be obviated. It would be useless, as well as endless, to refer to the many trachea tubes which have been sug- gested ; every instrument-maker's catalogue con- tains several patterns. Dr. Fuller's bivalve tube is wider, shorter, and less curved than most. Both inner and outer tubes are of equal diameter through- out,—the inner being longer than the outer. The outer tube is divided longitudinally into two por- tions, which are flattened towards their inferior extremity so as to lie close together, and admit of easy introduction, while when the inner tube is inserted they are made to diverge to their full ex- tent. Air is admitted on the withdrawal of the inner tube, not merely at the extremity, but also between the blades. Bretonneau's outer canula in the same way con- sists of an upper and lower half, which are kept firmly apart by an inner tube, which is easily withdrawn when requiring to bo cleansed. De- marquay's outer tube, in its inferior part, divides into three branches, which are hold together on introduction and separated afterwards by the in- sertiiin of the inner tube. By using inner tubes of increasing size, any constriction in the larynx can be dilated. Krishaber's canula has llirce valves and allows of speaking and expectoration. Some instruments, again, admit of being lengthened or shoriened, so as to ci)in|)ensate fur the amount of swelling present. Some are perforated so iis to ■ allow of the expiratory current of iiir passing up-