800 TUMOR to the lower boundary of the disease, where tlie vessels are known to enter. These will be at once divided and compressed, or tied, if it be thought •worth while, and the vessels be very large; for the fingers of the assistant are in the way of the fur- ther and perhaps more delicate dissection. This is pursued much more safely and satisfactorily thus; and it will be found always much better to meet the danger at once, than to be obliged to tie one vessel after another, and perhaps the various branches over and over again, instead of the trunk. Much less blood will be lost; the time occupied in the operation will be abridged; and the pain and suffering very much diminished. The utmost care must be taken to avoid the branches of the cervical nerves, and those of the portio dura, by dissecting the posterior aspect of the tumor carefully, and in the direction of their course, the edge and point of the knife being constantly turned towards the part to be removed; but in some cases of this kind the division of part of the pes anserinus is quite unavoidable; and we have sometimes to decide between leaving part of the tumor, and causing a temporary paralysis of part of the face." (See Lision's Practical Surgery, p. 2/5.) In the section on Erectile Tumors, contained in Dr. Warren's woik, several interesting remarks may be found, which, had I been acquainted with earlier, I should have noticed in the articles Aneurism and NiEvus. He gives an instance of aneurism by anastomosis, situated near the internal angle of a young woman's right eye, where the anastomosis of the facial, ophthalmic, and frontal arteries takes place, and where the disease pro- duced a pulsating tumor as large as a hazel-nut. The anastomosing branch of the ophthalmic artery was first tied, the facial artery divided, the tumor emptied, and a compress applied over the artery and sac. On division of the facial artery, the pulsation ceased; but there was a return of slight pulsation on the third day. In a fortnight, the tumor pulsated as strongly as it did before the operation, and the carotids throbbed violently, es- pecially the right one. After the trial of some general remedies and low diet for two months, without benefit, Dr. Warren tied the right carotid artery. The pulsations on that side were imme- diately relieved, those of the left gradually abated, and the operation led to a complete cure. In the foregoing case, considerable perplexity was occasioned liy the pulsations being almost as powerful and distressing on the left side of the head as on the right, so that it could not be fore- told whether tying the right carotid alone would have been followed by their cessation, or the left carotid might not also have required the applica- tion of a ligature to it. The result seems to Dr. Warren to prove that the pulsations were sympa- thetic. In this example, it likewise merits notice, that the interruption of the current through the small arteries was not adequate to stop the pulsa- tions of the tumor, nor to check its growth, which could only be accomplished by putting a stop to the stream of blood in the large trunk. From this, however. Dr. Warren does not deem the inference warrantable, that it is necessary, in every instance of aneurism by anastomosis, to tie the arterial trunk from which the nutrient vessels of the tumor proceed. Such trunk might also be tied, 5""' yet the disease not invnrialily be cured; an example of which Dr. Warren met with in hig own practice. The reason of the difference seems to be, that, in some instances, a cure will not be effected, unless the vessels immediately entering the tumor are secured, and also the large trunk from which they are derived. The first proceed- ing is rendered indispensable by the free anasto- mosis of the small vessels of the head and face; and the second by the necessity of excluding the tumor and its nutrient arteries from the constant impulse of the heart, and the influx of blood, until adhesion has been completed. (See Warren, on Tuniors, <Sj;c.,8vo. Boston, 1837.) With respect to the disputed question, what is the structure of these erectile tumors? I may refer to a very interesting case and observations, recently published by Mr. T. B. Curling. (See Lon. Med. Guz. for Aug. 1838.) From his em- amination of a large tumor of this kind with a microscope, he found the arteries terminating by direct continuity of tube in the veins, and not in cells, as has been sometimes represented. [Mr. Birkett has described the structure of a subcuta- neous nsevus in the Trans, of the Royal Med.Chir. Society, vol. xxx., 1847, and shown the relation uhich these new growths have to the fibrous tissues. The fibrous stroma resembles very closely that of the Corp. Cavernosa penis, as stated by John Bell {Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 469).] The erectile tissue, which is one of the analogous tissues of Carswell and other pathologists, is described by the latter as presenting varieties similar to those observed in the natural erectile tissues, sometimes consisting of a spongy or cellular structure, inter- cepted by fibrous tissue; but, at other times, and most frequently, consisting of an almost inextric- able network of arteries and veins, sometimes the one, Eometimes the other, of these sets of vessels predominating. In one case, which Dr. Carswell had an opportunity of examining after death, in an infant, the tumors were formed of the dilated extremities of the vessels, some of which were bulbous, sacculated and distended with fluid, or • coagulated blood. One of them burst, and occa- sioned fatal haemorrhage. (See CarsweWs Illustra- tio7is of the Elementary Forms of Disease; Fasc. on Analogous Tissues.) In the article, Mamma, Diseases of, I have noticed the little agonising swelling called the painful subcutaneous tubercle, which both Sir Astley Cooper and Baron Dupuytren concur in describing as a fibro-cellular, or libro-cartilaginous tuuipr, invested by a cyst, situated almost ahvii3"S under the integuments of the limbs, presenting nearly a round shape, and scarcely ever exceeding the size of a pea. According to Dupuytren, it finally undergoes the kind of softening peculiar to cancer ; a remaik, however, which I do not find agree with the statements of other pathologists, and the correctness of which I have not seen ex- emplified in practice. Several writers describe the painful subcutaneous tubercle as formed in the texture of nerve.>=, or in the track of them. Thus, M. Antuine Petit, in his discourse on pani, remarks that, on dissection, a white tubercle is met with, covered by a fibrous membrane, coninionly adherent to the skin, but loose in the eeHuIar tissue, where it appears to be connected only ^^"1 filaments of nerves, of which it is the tcrnimation. The greater number of swellings of this kind on which he had operated, were in the legs, only oue