985 VENEREAL DISEASE. more prominent of these was sarsnparilhi, which, nuCwithscandiui; the once almost boundless t'aitti in its medicinal properties, does not at the present day command tlie confidence of the profession beyond us action as a mild, and occasionally a useful tonic. In this respect it possesses no especial virtues of its own, and is inferior to the various forms of bark. [In the opinion of the editor, sarsapariila ranks next to iodide of potassium as a remedy in tertiary syphilis, and is of considerable efficacy.] " Aluddai; cji'f.—The same remark may be made uf gnaiacuui, sassafras, and of the Indian root muddar, wliich at one time was largely employed by the natives of India as a supposed anti-syphi- litic agent. " Upon this important branch of their Instruc- tions, the Committee are of opinion— '• 1st. That until a more efhcient remedy be dis- covered, the occasional employment of mercury cannot be dispensed with. "■Jnd. That employed in moderation, and under judicious restrictions, it is to the large majority of constitutions harmless ; and, '* 3rd. That when employed in such larger quantities as will cause salivation, the excess is not only useless, but assumes the character of a poison. " Their belief in the value of mercury as an anti-syphilitic agent is strengthened by observation of its remarkable influence in the hereditary syphilis of new-born children. The evidence of tlie witnesses testifies strongly to the value of mercurial treatment, by the adoption of which children in great numbers are annually restored to health. (See Evidence, Q. 4415 et seq., 551)3 et seq., 5755 et seq., 5K17 ei seq., 5899 et seq.) Treutmeiit by Si/p/iilisation.—The. opportunities hitherto afforded to the Committee for the investi- gatiun of the subject of syphilisation have been so hmited that they have but few remarks to make upon it. It is in evidence that the practice oi syphilisation has been adopted by some highly intelligent practitioners in Christiania, and is re- sorted to exclusively by one of the witnesses, in the treatment of syphilis in this country ( Fide Q. 4642 et seq.) Although they have reason to believe it may prove serviceable in such chronic cases as have failed to yield to more ordmary treatment, they have no sufficient evidence of its curative properties to outweigh the obvious objections to its general employment ; and even accepting the entire truth of the reports of its curative powers, the treatment is repugnant to the habits and feelings of tiie pro- fession in this country, and, in the majority of cases, is slow of operation. The Connnittee ac- knowledge their obligations to Professor Boeck, of Christiania, who, earnest in the cause, not less of scientific medicine than ot humanity, volunteered a lengthened residence in England for the express purpose of explaining his views, and initiating J'iiiglish surgeons into the practical detail of his mode of treatment. They desire to express their admiration of the active zeal and earnestness which Dr. Boeck devoted to this cause, and their regret that the opportunities of truly testing the value of this principle of treatment are so rare and so un- certiiin amongst the shifting population of a large metropolis ; indeed, the Committee see no other means of attaining tliis object than through the active assistance of the medical officers of the army, wlio alone have the necessary opportunities for a prolonged observation of tlie results of treat- ment. " Treatment of Infantile Syphilis witliout mercury. —The remarkable success that has attended the treatment of infantile syphilis by the agency of mercury has been recorded in this lieport. The Committee desire to call attention to the evidence given ill reply to Questions 624G, et seq., 6431 et seq., and 6598 et seq., on the subject of the non-mer- curial treatment of syphilitic infants. " The results of these experimental enquiries, so far as they have been carried, assuredly point to the conclusion that the syphilis of infants has no enemy to contend with more potent than a weak and anseinic state of the constitution, which disap- pears on the improvement of the general health. The disease for the most part, according to the evidence above referred to, attacks children ill- nourished and ill-tended, who consequently fail in vigour of circulation. These children are placed on a nourishing diet, and supplied with strengthen- ing remedies, medical and dietetic, and the disease subsides ; the cure is declared to be effected at a shorter date than that obtained through treatment by mercury. " Such is the evidence before the Committee, founded, however, on a rather limited number of cases, but which, although numerically small, is sufficiently important to claim the attention of the profession, and to justify a renewed enquiry in a larger and more general field of observation. " Ptyalisin.—The fourth head of the Instructions given to the Committee refers to the best antidote to injurious mercurial action on the human system. The evidence shows that the use of mercury in the present day is so cautiously regulated as to render any reference to the subject in this Report almost unnecessary. The Committee, huwever, in respect to their instructions, suggest as remedies—the most abundant supply of fresh air, tonics combined with chlorate of potash, opium, and the moderate use of stimulants. " Fhayedena.—A Report on venereal disease would appear, to demand some reference to an affection wnich is often associated with it, viz., phagedena. Although found in frequent alliance with venereal sores, the two diseases are distinct in their nature, and appear to have no necessary relation to each other. There is no evidence to show that a venereal sore becomes phagedenic because it is venereal. It is highly probable that any local sore on the genitals, occurring under circumstances fa- vouring phagedenic action, would be equally liable with a venereal sore to become phagedenic. The two diseases become associated simply* because the large majority of sores on the genital organs are of venereal origin. " Phagedenic action is eminently destructive, whether it prevail in the form of rapid ulceration uf the surface of a sore, or whether, in its more active form, it involve the tissues around in a pro- cess of rapid ulceration, or even of sloughing. The loss of living structure may be small or large, dependent on the greater or less activity of the phagedenic action that produces it. It extends with a rapidity far greater tlun that which charac- terises any form of venereal or non-venereal 8or#, and, under conditions most favoural)le to its exten- sion, often rapidly destroys the whole glans, and the contiguous portion of the penis. " Like venereal diseuse, phagedena may exist as