442 PENIS, CANCER OF larly simple, as he cuts through the integuments and penis together by one stroke of the knife, without making any preliminary circular division of the skin. {Mid. Op&ruloire, t. iii. p. 305, ed. 2.) According to Boyer amputation of the penis diifers from all others; for, instead of endeavouring to save'more of the skin than of other soft parts, one object Is to remoye more of it than of the' corpora cavernosa. [He directs that the surgeon should take in his left hand the portion of the organ he is about to remove, drawing the skin forwards towards the glans, while an assistant at the same time holds the penis at its root near the pubes, and stretches the skin in that direction. Without this precaution, as he judiciously observes, there is a risk, if the amputation is at all low down, of removing some of the skin of the scrotum, and producing a wound of much greater extent than necessary. The com- pression of the root of the penis by an assistant is also of great advantage in restraining the hajmor- rhage until ligatures have been placed on the bleeding vessels. M. Malgaigne does not believe in the alleged re- tractility of the corpora cavernosa, but remarks very justly that the organ being pendulous, and only attached by one extremity, there is no reason why either the skin or corpora cavernosa should retract after division. He advises that the skin should not be drawn either forwards or backwards but should be cut at the same level with the cor- pora cavernosa. This we believe to be the proper mode of procedure, the object being to preserve a sufficient quantity, but not a redundancy, of skin to cover the stump. The ordinary practice now is to remove the organ by a single stroke of the knife, any prelimi- nary incision of the skin being deemed quite un- necessary.] The bleeding arteries are to be immediately tied; the chief are the dorsal, and one or two in each corpus cavernosum, near the septum pecteni- forme. Should a general oozing from the wound still continue, it may usually be arrested by the application of ice to the part, or of lint dipped in ice-cold water; but should this be ineifectual, a styptic, such as the solution of the perchloride of iron, may be applied to the bleeding surface. Ap- plications of this latter kind should, however, be avoided, if possible, because stimulating and pro- ductive of pain and inflammation. After the first dressings have been removed, the part may be dressed with any simple ointment, or with water dressing. [If any difficulty is met with in passing the urine after the operation, it should be drawn off with the catheter. Some surgeons prefer to retain a gum elastic catheter in the bladder for a day or two after the operation; but this does not appear to be necessary. It is, however, very desirable to pass a full sized instrument occasionally into the urethra while the healing is going on, to prevent the con- traction of the orifice, which not unfrequently occurs, and which may cause considerable subse- quent annoyance to the patient. Perhaps the best way of obviating this tendency to contract is to make an incision about J- of an inch in lengtli in the mucous membrane of the under surface of the urethra, to evert the angles of this incision, and to fix them on each side by a fine suture to the integument.] When the penis is amputated near the pubes, the remainder shrinks under that bone and within the integuments so far that it is difficult to tie the arteries. In order to obviate this inconvenience, Schreger recommends the skin to be drawn for- wards, and fixed with a band; then an incision to be made just deep enough to divide the dorsal arteries, which are to be tied before the knife is used again. The incision is tlien to be continued perpendicularly till the two arteries of the corpora cavernosa are cut. These are now to be tied. Then the corpus spongiosum and its two arteries are to be cut through, which last are to be secured. Lastly, the rest of the skin of the penis is to be divided. In this way Schreger amputated a dis- eased penis, of which only a part, about an inch in length, was sound. When the stump retains a certain length, the patients afterwards make water without difficulty; but when amputation has been performed towards the pubes, the urine dribbles over the scrotum; and, in order to avoid this, the patients are obliged to squat down whenever they empty the bladder. This inconvenience may be remedied by the use of a conical ivory tube, the.base of which is applied to the pubes. (See Malgaigne, Op. cit. p. 627.) Sharp, Le Bran, Bertrandi, Sabatier, C. Bell and ListoH's books on tbe operations may be consulted. Bey's Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 445. Pearson, On Cancerous Complaints, p. 103. &c. Watner'g Cases in Surgery, p. 278, ed. 4. E. C. Siener, l)e Extirpatione Penis per Li^aturam, 4to. Lips. 1S16. P. JJoJU-, Voyage a Londres, &c., fait en 1814. Wacld Cases of Dis. of the Prepuce and Scrotum. J. U Thaut, Diss, de Virgse ViriUs Statu Sano et Morb. eiusdemimprimis Amputatione.B. G. Schreffer.i^tm. Versuche ; Neue Methode den Penis zu Araputiren, b. 1. p. 242, 8vo. Nurnberg, 1801. Velpeau, Nouv. El^m. de M^d. Op6r. t. iii. p. 567, 8vo. Pans, 1832. PENIS, CANCER OF. A wart, or a tubercle, on the prepuce, the franum, the glans penis, or corpora cavernosa is generally the first symptom; and it often remains in a quiet state for many years. When ii-ritated, however, it becomes pam- ful, and enlarges, sometimes enormously, ma very short time. At a later date, as in cancer elsewhere, ulceration and a discharge of watery sanious fetid matter, rather than of well-formed pus, take place. The disease sometimes also occasions in the urettxra fistulous openings, out of which the urine escapes, and as the disease advances, the lymphatic glands in the groin become affected. Mr. Pearson says that "cancerous excrescences have a broad base, often more extensive than their superficies ; they seem to germinate deeply from within, or rather to be a continuation of the substance of the part, and, in their progressive state, the contiguous sur- face has a morbid appearance." What he considera as a venereal wart, has a basis smaller than ite surface: its roots have rather a superficial attach ment, they are softer, and the contiguous parts ha> e a natural appearance (p. 97). Such are this gentleman's remarks as regards diagnosis. ° Mr. Travers observes: " Wherever the Jisea^ begins in an irritable pi^Pl^; ^^'l^et\'^'-f ,^1^^ or prepuce, and this breaks into a l"ird-based ruid spreading Jilcer, with a disposition to ungje.^t^^^^^ c ise must be viewed with great °»;;^.''', Jt the glands in the groin be f «f ^-^^^or no ,,espe cially if the patient be turned o JUj 3 X Foul, spreadnig, f "^'J, f.^r ; and like- should be discriminated fiom , . ■ ■ wise diseases produced, and kept up, bj local