SURGERY which are sometimes brought on by the ton sudden and injudicious use of mercury; bilious fevers, and the various derangements of the diges tive organs, which are sometimes the cause, and at other times the consequence, of local diseases; the mrvous aftectinns, such as apoplexy, convulsions, paralysis, and mania, which arise not unfrequently from injuries of the head; and locked jaw, or te- tanus, which, in warm climates particularly, is so very liable to be induced by punctured wounds. These are morbid affections, the proper study and treatment of which, when they occur without local injury, are supposed to belong to the physician rather than the surgeon ; but occurrino' very fre- quently as they do in chirurgical diseases",' and always modiljiiig or aggravating the effects of these diseases, ignorance of their nature, relations, and modes of cure, is not only inexcusable, but highly criminal, in the practitioner who ventures to un- dertake their treatment." (Jhomsons Lecttmson Inflammation, Introduction. Also J. R. G. Boll- man, Tentawen oslendens Chiriirgiam a Medicina hand impune separari, 12mo. Rintel. 1803.) From what has been stated, I think it very certain that there never can be a complete and scientific division of the healing an into physic and surgery; and that all attempts to distinguish the numerous disea^^es and injuries of the human body into medical and surgical cases must, in a great measure, be decided by custom, and the mutual agreement of practitioners, rather than by any rules, or principles, which are at all con sistent. Mr. Lawrence joins in the opinion, that the line of demarcation between surgery and physic cannot be easily traced, and he considers the distinction between them to be a mere matter of arbitrary usage. He employs the word surgery in its common acceptation; understanding it to include, 1st, Injuries of all kinds; andly, The greater part of external and local complaints; 3rdly, Such internal affections as produce changes recognis- al>Ie externally—for example, alterations of figure, colour, or consistence; 4thly, All cases requirinu external topical treatment, operations, or manual proceedings of any kind. This view coincides very much with the catalogue of diseases treated of in the present work ; yet such is the difficulty nf separating surgery from physic by any general definitions, that every man of experience will im- mediately recollect various exceptions to some of the foregoing principles of classification. Thus, ascites or dropsy, which is an internal disease productive of change of figure, and often requiring an operation, is usually regnrded as a medical case. T should say, that it is an instance in which the skill both of the physician and surgeon is plainly necessary. In the earliest periods, the same men cultivated the whole field of medicine. The writings of Hippocrates, Galen, Celsns, Paulus TEgineta, Albucasis, &c., prove that the Greeks, Romans, and Arabians never had an idea of the human body being susceptible of only two classes of diseases, one of which formed the province of physic, while the other constituted a separate and distinct science, called surgery. They had no conception of two systems of pathology, one ap|)licable to the exterior, the other to the interior parts of the bod}'. Thi'y knew as well as the best informed practitioners of the present day, 653 that, though each organ has its particular func- tion to perform, its office is not independent of, but clo&ely connected with, the use and perfect state of other organs. Hence, as Mr. Lawrence has noticed, the expression of Hippocrates is perfectly correct, "Labor unus; consentientia omnia" The numerous individual organs, which make up the human body, although various in struc- ture and office, are all intimately connected and mutually dependent. They are merely subordi- nate parts of one great machine ; and they all concur, each in its own way, in producing one general result, the life of the individual. All the leading arrangements are calculated to give a character of unity to the organisation and living actions of our frame. There is a common source of nutrition for the whole body; a single centre of circulation; a common place of union for all sensations and volitions, for nervous energy of whatever kind. The various organs are not only intimately connected by the share which they se- verally take in executing associated and mutually dependent functions, they act and react on each other, often very powerfully, by those mysterious, or, at least, hitherto unknown influences, which we call sympathies. As the animal machine, although complicated in structure, is single, and as its living motions, although numerous and in- tricate, form one indivisible series, so a similar connection runs through those changes of struc- ture and functions which constitute disease. Hence, there is one anatomy and physiology, and there can be only one pathology. (Richerand, Lawrence, J. Cloquet, &c.) Hippocrates, Galen, Celsus, and other writers of high antiquitj-, treat successively of fevers, frac- tures, wounds, and nervous diseases; and none of them appear to have supposed, that there could be any disorders which really deserved to be called external, and others internal. Nor was it unt'l the middle of the r2th century, when the clergy were re- straijied by the Council of Tours from undertaking any bloody operation, that surgery was rejected from the universities, under the empty pretext, " Ecclesia abhorret a sanguine," often expressed in its d( crees, as Professor Thomson well observes but never acted upon, except in this instance, by the Church of Rome. It is to this epoch that we must refer the artificial separation of physic from surgery; the latter being abandoned to the Isitv who, in those ages of barbarism, were totally iliil terate. It is an observation made by the celebrated Bichat, that two things are essentially necessary to form a great surgeon—viz., genius and expe- rience. 0/ie traces for him the way; the other rectifies it: both reciprocally assist in formin<r him. Without experience, genius would be un- profitably fertile ; without genius, experience would only be a barren advantage to him. {CEuvres Mr. de Desault, par Bichat, tom. i. Disconrs priliminairc.') Out of the large niunbcr of hospital surgeons who are to be met with in every country of Europe, and who enjoy ample opportunities of profiting by the lessons of ex- perience, how few distinguish themselves, or ever contribute a mite to the improvement of their profession ! Opportunity, without talents and an aptness to take advantiigo of it, is not of more use than light to a blind man. On the other