MAMMA, DISEASES OF IS, frotn above downwards towards the nipple, by the nurse, as she stands behind the patient, and supports the posterior surface of the breast with one of her hands. This mode of treatment, which is particularly insisted on by Dr. S. C. Foster of New York, generally exerts a powerful effect upon the indurated gland, softening it in a short time, reducing the swelling, and promoting the flow of milk. (Gross, Si/stei>i of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 1054.)] When matter cannot be prevented from form- ing, an emollient poultice is the best application; or the surgeon may apply fomentations of poppy decoction, and poultices made with the same de- coction, mixed with bread, which last should be renewed three or four times a day. In order to lessen the patient's sufferings, Sir Astley Cooper prescribes opium combined with the liquor am- monicB acefa^is, or simple saline draughts with small doses of sulphate of magnesia. Some practitioners think that the abscess should be allowed to break of itself, unless it be rather chronic, in which case it may be opened in a depending part with a lancet. Much difference of opinion prevails respecting the practice of opening abscesses of the breast. Sub- jomed are Sir Astley Cooper's directions:—" If (says he) the abscess be quick in its progress, if it be placed on the anterior surface of the breast, and if the sufferings which it occasions are not exces- sively severe, it is best to leave it to its natural course. But if, on the contrary, the abscess in its commencement be very deeply placed, if its pro- gress be tedious, if the local sufferings be exces- sively severe, if there be a high degree of irritative fever, and the patient suffer from profuse perspira- tion, and want of rest, much time is saved and pain avoided, by discharging the matter with a lancet." (See Illustrations ofDis. of the Breast, p. 10.) The same experienced surgeon disapproves, however, of introducing the lancet through a thick covering of the abscess, as the opening will not procure a free discharge of the matter, but will heal by adhesion, atter which the accumulation of matter will con- tinue. The opening, he says,-8houId be made where the matter is most superficial, and the fluctuation 13 distinct, and its size should be in proportion to Its depth. [According to Mr. Syme, the cavity of the abscess generally heals sooner when evacuation ot the matter is not hastened by using the knife before the suppuration is so far completed, that the thin superadjacent integuments project or point. VV hen the process is thus far advanced, a free in- cision should be made, since it will not then delay the subsequent process of cure, but accelerate it by preventing extensive ulceration, sloughing, or the lormatinn of sinuses. {Princ. of Surqery, p. 274.) Should smuses form, resort may be had to the plan recommended by Dr. Foster, which consists simply in the application of compressed sponge, conhned by means of an appropriate bandage aided by a suitable diet, and attention to the S'" •^!'=,'P°"g''. of dirt, perfectly soft, elastic, and large enough to cover the entire breast, is thoroughly dried, and then eff-ctua „ compressed by keeping it 'for twenty-four hours under a heavy weight, a,, f„r example, a cominm letter-copying press. Thus prepared, t is bonn upon the affected organ over a piece f pate.U li t roller passed several times round the chest above wUh t 7. ''r^'- "otura ed with tepid water, which h.« the effect of expand- 277 mg It towards the diseased structures, pressing the walls of the sinuses together, and at the same time forcing out their contents and absorbing them. The sponge is changed once in the twenty-four hours. A little pain generally attends the first application, but this usually disappears in fifteen or twenty minutes, and does not recur afterwards. The improvement under this treatment is most rapid, the worst cases generally recovering in a few weeks. The organ after recovery may be allowed to remain inactive, or suckling may be re- sumed, if it should be deemed necessary. {Gross, System of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 1056.) ^ When the cavity of the abscess begins to be filled up with granulations, the poultice may be left off, and superficial dressings applied, followed by stimulant lotions. For dispersing the considerable induration, which sometimes continues a long while after the abscess has been cured, the most effectual plans are moderate compression, friction with campho- rated mercurial ointment, the iodine ointment, or the soap liniment, with of the tinct. iodine to each ounce of it, and the occasional exhibition of pur- gative medicines, with tonics, or the compound calo- mel pill, according to the state of the constitution.] If the abscess be small. Sir Astley Cooper allowed the child to suck the affected breast as well as the other; but if much of the mamma be in volved in the disease, he lets the infant suck tht other breast, and directs the mother to draw the other herself by means of the glass tube con- structed for the purpose. As a general rule, it is advisable not to let the infant suck the suppurat- ing breast, on account of the possibility of the ab- scess communicating with one or more lactiferous ducts. Indeed, if the abscess be large, it will generally be necessary to remove the child from the breast, and, as Mr. Earle remarks, in some cases from both breasts, " as the flow of milk, in- duced by t,>e suckling at the sound breast, induces a sympathetic determination to the other." When the abscess is less extensive, however, he approves of the trial of other means, as those of keeping a free outlet for the matter, and brisk purging, in order to lessen the secretion of pus. When the child IS prevented from sucking by excoriations, or ulcers of the nipple, the milk accumulates in laree quantity, and inflammation is excited. Here Sir Astley also recommended the breast to be drawn but considered that the sooner the child can b« restored to it, the better. A simple mode of drawing the breasts is to procure a wide-mouthed gooseberry bottle, and expel the air from it hv immersing it in hot water. When applied to the breast, a vacuum is formed, and the milk flows abundantly ; or an exhausting bottle of caout chouc may be used. {Earle, m Lond. Med. Ga~ vol. X. p. 153.) — [An interesting example of a deep narrow sinus in « ^-irgin breast, which apparently had been caused by the egress of pus from an abscess placed below tho gland came under the writer's observation in St. Mary s Hospital. The patient was a maid servant, aged 17. Tho right breast was swollen and tender ; there was a small opening midway between the nipple and border of the gland which gave exit to a small quantity of purulent discharire about five weeks previously she had a swelling of the face; after the lapse of a month, the face reco vcrcd its natiiral appearance, but shoulder and arm were attacked m the same manner. The swcllii g