VENEREAL DISEASE, Treatment of Primary Sores by Escharutios or by Excmon.~\:leatmnni of primary gores, whether hy excision or by escharotics, constitutes a pro- minent feature in the modern practice of surgery, and under favourable couditioub way be reborted to with great advantage. "The suppuration of tb* inguinal glands oc- casionally attending tlie local sore may be avoided provided the sore be deiU-oyed in its first stage, while in its pustular form, or immediately sub- sequent tu it. Probably ilie operation would be useless if undertaken after the third day. What- ever the escharotic agent selected, the destruc- tion of the sure should be complete. As a rule, the treatment of sores by escharotics is preferable to that by excision. The operation by the knife is painful, and very uncertain in its consequences; and if ineffectually done, it leaves a large wound to assume the morbid actions of the disease, which has been only partially removed. " Tlie Soft Sore.—This principle regulates the treatment by escharotics of all soft sores, whether tending to iufect the constitution or not. In the case of the soft infecting sore, it is obviously of great moment to destroy the local poison, and avert the train of constitutional symptoms which may possibly, nay, probably will follow. Should the destruction of this sore by caustic fail of its object, by reason of its imperfect application, or of the too advanced stage of the sore, it is not improbable that the consequences would be injurious, and that an earlier development of the poison in the system would result. The rule of practice, which limits the operation of destruction to the two or three days from the first development of the sore, must, therefore, be strictly adhered to. For the reasons before given, it is an operation which can rarely be resorted to with a prospect of success in the hospital class of patients. '• Tlie Hard Sore.—The application of local agents for the purpose of destroying the hard sore is use- less. The disease is generally detected by the presence of its induration, from the hour of the first development of which the constitution is pro- bably involved, and no local application can arrest the progress of the disease, or render it less severe in its consequences. If the indurated mass be re- moved by the knife, a large wound is made, while the constitution is not necessarily protected from the occurrence of secondary disease. " Treatment of Syphilis {i.e., Constitutional dis- ease).—The opinion of the Committee is unanimous in favour of mercury as the most efficient agent yet known in the treatment of constitutional syphilis. " Mercury.—Mercury cannot be deemed a specific in the ordinary acceptation of that term, and does nut appear to exercise any direct influence on the poison of syphilis, but ou the effects of the poison only. " Opinions are divided as to its power, when administered in the primary affection, to postpone or to mitigate the severity of the symptoms of true syphilis ; if mercury possessed the properties of an antidote to the poison of syphilis, it might with reason be employed at any stage before tiie consti- tutional symptoms appear. The non-resort to it during the interval between the healing of the sore and the appearance of constitutional symptoms proves that general opinion deems the action of mercury to be directed against the effects, and not against the poison. It is generally admitted that treatment by the agency of mercury is not iniig. pensable to recovery, and that in many cases the disease will die out spontaneously at a longer or shorter interval of time ; and, again, it is a fact well worthy of remark, that syphilis, in both pri. niary and constitutional forms, may make its ap- pearance in an individual whilst under salivatioa by mercury. " Still the advocates of mercurial treatment greatly preponderate amongst the witnesses, and, we believe, in the profession at large, and among them are included many who have tested the value of non-mercurial treatment, and who have returned to the use of the mineral after an impartial invefc ligation into the relative value of each mode of treatment. (See Observations on the Treatment of Syphilis, by Thomas Rose, in Medico-Oliiruryical Transactions, vol. viii., and Evidence, Q. 4105.) It is prominentlv in evidence, and is confirmed by the experience of the Committee, that treatment by mercury is rarely expedient in any form of con- stitutional disease (syphilis), accompanied by pus- tular and rupial eruptions, whether developed in the early stages of the disease, or reproduced at a later period. These fomis of eruption are especi- ally indicative of constitutional debilitj', and mer- cury, by its depressing influence on the health, tends to give force to the ulcerative action, and thus to neutralise the benefit resulting from tonic remedies. If there be any form of syphilis in which mercury is especially contra-indicated, they are the pustular and rupial forms of the disease. " Mode of testing tlie quantity of mercury re- quired,—There are two modes of gauging the quantity of mercury requisite in any given case: 1st, by its influence on the disease, and 2nd, by the evidence of its presence in the system. And it is well to retain this double test, because the pre- sence of the mercury is not clearly indicated, either in the gums, in the breath, or in the increased fre- quency of the heart's action at the same interval ia all persons. In some the fading eruption shows the presence of the remedy in the system before the gums are affected, in others after, and the period requisite for both also varies considerably in different constitutions, states of health, &c. " When the gums and breath are thus affected, it may be inferred that the maximum qimntity of mercury that can prove serviceable in the treatment has been reached, and as the indications of its pre- sence in the system daily advance, while the dose administered is stationary, it is desirable to reduce the quantity, in order to render the indication« stationary also, since a persistence in those early manifestations of its effects is all that is required. " Iodine.—Another remedy extensively used in the treatment of constitutional symptoms is iodine in its various combinations. Iodide of potassium is, perhaps, the most efficient form fur its administra- tion. It is employed in doses of from 'A to lo grains, and is often used in the dose of 10 or 1'^ grains with advantage. It is mostly combined with cinchona bark or sarsaparilla. '• Iodine in combination with mercury is fre- quently used, and testimony has been borne by many of the witnesses to the advantage arising from the combination. '^Sarsaparilla.—Modern experience does not confirm tlie confidence formerly placed in several supposed remedies of the vegetable kingdom em- ployed in the treatment of syphilis. Among the