219 bladder, while the finger guides them through the wound, &e." (Alian on Lithotomy, p. 48, Edinb., 1808.) The staff used by Mr. Listen ia of large size, and deeply grooved betwixt the lateral and convex aspects. "Thisinstrument," (he observes) " is easily felt after the first incision, aud the urethra opened upon it. It is hooked against the symphysis and entrusted to an assistant, with directions to main- tain the position steadily from first to last; neither to turn it so as to bulge in the perineum, nor to depress the handle as the knife enters the bladder; the surgeon's left hand is thus at liberty to guide the knil'e and guard important parts from danger." The knife " is then entered pretty deeply into the perineum, about an inch, more or less, behind the scrotum, and it is made to cut downwards and outwards through the skin and superficial fascia, in a line about midway between the tuberosity of the ischium and the anus, and beyond that orifice, towards the sacro ischiatic ligament. " The forefinger of the left hand is then placed in the bottom of the wound, about its middle, and directed upwards and forwards. Any fibres of the transverse muscle, or of the levator of the anus, that offer resistance, are divided by the knife, its edge being turned downwards. The finger passes readily through the loose cellular tissue, but is resisted by the deep fascia, imme- diately anterior to which the groove of the staff can be felt not thickly covered." [The anatomy of this oft-quoted passage is somewhat faulty, inasmuch as the fibres of the levator ani are said to be divided before the deep fascia is reached, whereas that muscle is situated altogether beneath the deep perineal fas- cia.] " The point of the instrument is slipped along the nail of the finger, and, guided by it, is entered, the back still directed upwards, into the groove at this point. The finger all along is so placed as to depress and protect as much as possible the coats of the rectum; and the same knife pushed for- wards is made to divide the deep fascia, the muscular fibres within its layers, a very small portion, not more than two lines, of the urethra, anterior to the apex of the prostate, together with a part of the prostatic portion of the canal, and the gland to a very limited extent." Ac- cording to Mr. Listen's views, the external in- cision should be free, but the internal one very limited indeed, not extending beyond seven lines from the urethra downwards and outwards. The object of this is not to interfere with the reflection of the ileo vesical or pelvic fascia, from the sides of the pelvis over the base of the gland and side of the bladder. " If this natural boundary be- twixt the external and internal cellular tissue is broken up, there is scarcely a possibility of pre- venting infiltration of urine, which must almost certainly prove fatal. The prostate and tissues around the neck of the bladder are very clastic and yielding, so that without much solution of their continuity, by a very slight incision and without the least laceration, the opening can bo so dilated as to admit the forefinger readily; still further, the forceps can be introduced upon it as a guide and removed, along with a stone of considerable dimensions, say from 3 inches to nearly S inches in circumference in one direction and from 4 to 6 in the largest. The finger follows the knife, which 13 then withdrawn, and the position and volume of the stone can be at once distinctly ascertained in LITHOTOMY. the greater number of cases." If the prostate be ■igid or very large, or the patient very corpulent. Mr. Listen conceives that it may sometimes be expedient, after dividing the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra, to dilate gently with a blunt gorget, as practised by the late Mr. Martineau, Sir B. Brodie, and Mr. Dalrymple, of Norwich. (See Practical Stirqery, 2nd Edit. p. 441.) ^ Mr. Listen's use of the elastic gum tube after the operation has been already noticed. This is not now commonly employed in London, and is strongly reprobated by M. Velpeau. {Nouv. Elan. deMed. Operaioire, t. iii., p. 775.) In operating with a scalpel, one with a longish blade or handle will be found more convenient than a common one on account of the depth of the parts requiring division, especially in adults and fat subjects. [The manner of holding the knife during the deep incision has been much discussed, especially since the death of Mr. Listen. Upon this point Mr. Erichsen remarks that, " he believes it signi- fies little how the handle of the instrument is held between the sm-geon's fingers, provided the edge is never turned upwards, but is always kept well lateralised and the point steadily pressed into the groove of the staff. Provided a surgeon knows what he is about, he may safely hold his knife as best suits his own convenience." Hence the knife may be held in the first posi- tion (as a pen) or witli the handle of the instru- ment under the hand, while the index finger rests on the back or side of the blade. The latter is the position recommended by Mr. Fergusson, and the one probably adopted by Mr. Listen when his experience became matured.] Lilliotomy ivith a straight Staff,— I would next beg the attention of surgeons to the modification in the manner of performing Cheselden's opera- tion, proposed by Mr. Ke}', and executed with a staff of nearly a straight form and a scalpel that has a slightly convex back near its point, in order that it may run with more facility in the groove of the staft'. [The staft" used by Mr. Key was straight to within about an inch of its extremity, where it was slightly turned upwards, in order that the point might not be liable to be caught in the prostate gland, or in some accidental fold of the bladder ; but the knil'e was never intended to be introduced so far as to reach the curved part of the instrument. The form of the ordinary staft^ says Mr. Key, has always appeared to me to present the greatest difficulty in executing the operation on the true principles of lateral lithotomy. At the part where it serves the purpose of a director it is curved—a form certainly least adapted to convey a cutting instrument in safety where the eye of the operator cannot follow it—while the straight instrument, besides being, in this respect, greatly superior to the curved one, has the further groat advant'ige of allowing the surgeon to turn the groove in any direction he may wish. Thus, be- fore carrying the knife into the prostate, the groove which has been held downwards for the first inci- sion may be turned in any oblique line towards the patient's left side that the operator may think preferable for the division of the prostate. Mr. Key's mode of conducting the operation was as fol- lows : An assistant holding the staff, with the