Manchester, first propounded in a comprehensive Intion is temporarily arrested in one portion of the body (as, for example, when the function of the slciu is suppressed by exposure or cold) the circu- lation of the blood is shortened, according to the extent of the arrest in function, and tiie burden of the circulation has to be borne by the parts in which the circulation remains free. Additional labour is thus thrown on the heart, a quickened pulmonary circulation and a quickened respiration are established, and, as a sequence, there is a super- oxidation of the blood and inflammatory fever. Meanwhile secretions of the decayed organ accu- mulate in the blood, and upon their presence in excess the local manifestation of inflammatory action depends, the character of the inflammation varying with the character of the arrested secretion. According to the same author, the great increase offibrine in cases of acute inflammatory fever has more to do with the fatal result in many instances than the local inflammatory mischief. There is, he contends, a limitation as to the amount of librine that can make the round of the circulation. If the blood is surcharged with fibrine, a portion is left undissolved in the liquor sanguinis. The heart c//!«;7is out the fibriue. Tlie fibrinous deposit embarrasses the heart, and sinking symptoms succeed as the result of the obstruction to the course of the blood stream ; these concretions, when present, being diagnosable by certain distinct sym- ptoms. By submitting animals to the influence of 0X3'gen, Dr. Richardson has produced all the sym- ptoms of inflammatory fever, the hyperinosis, the local manifestation of pneumonia, and fibrinous deposits, which latter he has removed from the hearts of animals while the hearts were yet con- tracting. Taking this view as to the general phenomena of an inflammatory disorder, and co.»itrasting this with the phenomena of arrested oxidation as in- duced by the influence of narcotics, Dr. Richard- son considers that opium, but above all the vola- tile narcotics, are the grand remedies in the cure of acute inflammatory affections. In cases of acute inflammatory croup, he has thus adminis- tered chloroform by continuous bnt cautious in- halation with marked success. Under the influ- ence of this agent the circulation and respiration are at once reduced in force, the temperature of the body is lowered, the skin begins to act freely, and all the increased vascular action is brought down promptly by an agent, the effects of which pass ofl^as soon as its administration is withdrawn. Dr. Richardson has shown that in dogs and cats inflammation of the fibrous structures, as of the endocardium, pericardium, and sclerotic, can be artificially produced by the free introduction of lactic acid into the circulation through the peri- toneal surface. This is one experiment amongst many on the synthesis of disease, which, perhaps, explains the genesis of rheumatic fever. In a very ■valuable lecture On Increment of Heal {Med. Times ami G'az., HJGO, vol. i. p. 4ii()), Dr. Rich- ardson points to the augmentation of fibrine, and Us deposit in the heart as effects of pyrexia. The increasing application of the cosmical theory of conversion of force, and the measurement of effects by the thermometer, well deserve further consideration. Dr. .Julius Robert Mayer, of Heilbronn, in 1 !M2, and about the same time James I'riEcot Juul INFLAMMATION. 77 form the doctrine that force lives for ever ; that it may change its form, or remain for a time in abeyance, but cannot be annihilated. (See Tyndall Ore//m<, Lond. 1863.) ' In a healthy man, the bodily temperature vary- ing little, implies a balance between the produc- tion of heat and the loss of it. Let this be dis- turbed, let the production of lieat be increased, or its loss diminished, elevation of bodily temperature or pyrexia follows. The sources of heat 'within the body are not entirely understood, and do not readily admit of estimation. Liebig {Animal Chemistry, p. 80) alludes not only to direct but to indirect oxidation, such as occurs in the transformation of starch into fat, or of sugar into alcohol, or in the heating of a haystack. In the formation of fat a portion of the oxygen of the starch is given up, and is converted into carbonic acid with a portion of the carbon, but the combustion of the starch is incomplete; for, instead of carbonic acid alone being produced, fat and carbonic acid are the products of this im- perfect form of oxidation. In fermentation of starch or sugar again, water, alcohol, and carbonic acid are formed. This is no combustion at the ex- pense of the atmospheric oxygen, but a rearrange- ment of elements ; yet, as certain as carbonic acid is formed heat is set free. There are yet other sources of heat; for ex- ample, hydration, such as occurs when oil of vitriol is mixed with water. Here there is rearrange- ment of elements, but not such as occurs when carbon is burnt. Again, in the pulmonary and systemic circulation, changes are constantly going on which accoimt for the evolution and abstraction of heat, but which are in no respect of the nature of oxidation. It is well known that wherever gases are being condensed, as oxygen is in the luug by the red corpuscles, there heat must be given out. The evolution of the carbonic acid gas would to some extent neutralise this, bat how far is not known. Finally, the so-called catalytic process may have something to do with the production 01 anmial heat. Briefly, it may be said that the heat of the bodv depends on chemical change, and this chemical change is essentially oxidation ; that air and food are burnt up within us, and expelled in the shape of consumed material, whilst force in the shape of heat or mechanical work is liberated. In estimatiiicr the exact measure of these changes we encouiue'? considerable difiiculties. Thus our food does not consist of simple carbon; to render that substance available for our wants, it must be combined in certain fashions, and the heat produced bv the combustion of the combined matters is not the same as the heat produced by the combustion of each element separately. Then again our nitro- genous food is only very imperfectly consumed • it reappears mainly as urea, but urea itself is capable of givnig out considerable combustion heat, 80 that this also must be taken into con sideratioii. Increased activity of function implies increased nutrition and oxidation, and thus increased pro duction of heat. Thus a gland actively enL'a.Tcd" 111 the process of secreting increases in temporalmo contraction of muscle gives rise to increased tcm' peiatuie in the blood issuing from it, and as oiio of the pheiiomeua ot iiifliiimaatiou is incrcasea of