286 MELANOSIS. of tlie Breast, 4to. Lond. 1839. Dr. CwnMs inter- esting paper in Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journal, vol. xxvii. art. 1. A. E. Llo;id, on Scrofula, 8vo. John Abernethy, on Tumours, 8vo. 1804. H. Earle, in Lond. Med. Gazette. Land. 1832. {Mruier. Ueher den feinern Uau und die Formen der krankhaften Gescliwulste, Berlin, 1838. Nilaton, Tumeurs de la Mamelle, Paris, 1839. Birard, M.A., Diagnostic Diifi^rentiel des Tumeuis du Sein, Paris, 1842. jBrodie, Si)-B.C., Lectures, 8vo. 1846. Birkeit, J., Diseases of the Breast, and tlieir Treatment, 8vo. London, 1850. Lebcrt, Traits Pratique, Paris, 1851. Paget, J., Lectures on Surgical Pathology, 2 vols. 8V0. Lond. 1853. Veit, in Virchow's Handbuch. Er- langen, 1855. Velpeau, Treatise on the Diseases of the Breast and Mammary Region. Syd. Society. London, 1856. Scanzoni, Lehrbuch der Krankheiten der Weiblichen Sexual Organe. Wien, 1859.] MELANOSIS, derived from /u«Xos, black, is a term employed to signify substances occasionally developed in or upon the textures of the animal body, and characterised by their black colour. Although references to melanosis of the lungs and liver may be traced in the writings of Bonetus, Morgagni, and Haller, the first very careful de- scriptions of the disease were given by MM Dupuytren, Bayle, and Laennec. The name of ^melanosis, which was first adopted by Laennec who published the earliest particular account of the disease (see Bulletin de la Soc. de PEcole de Med. 1860. No. 2.), is still generally retained. Professor Carswell uses the terra melanoma. Our knowledge of the disease has been of late years much extended by the researches of Breschet, Trousseau, Leblanc, Carswell, and some eminent veterinary surgeons in France. Under the title of melanoma. Dr. Carswell in eludes all melanotic formations, black discolor ations, or products, described by Laennec and other authors; but, for the purpose of marking the difference in their nature, he arranges them in two groups, the first being distinguished by the appel lation of trite melanosis, the second by that o spurious melanosis. " Thus, (says he,) when these formations or products depend (as is the case with some of them) on a change taking place in that product of secretion whence the natural colour of certain parts of the body is derived, or, in other words, when they constitute what is called an idiopathic disease, I shall consider them as belong ing to the first group; and when, as in the case with others they originate in the accumulation of a carbonaceous substance introduced into the body from without, the action of chemical agents on the blood, or the stagnation of this fluid, I shall include them in the second group. There are several black discolorations, which might also have been included in the present systematic ar- rangement, such as those observed in tissues affected with mortification, tbat have been subjected to the action of intense heat, or powerful escharotics of various kinds; but as they have never been con- founded with any of the forms of melanosis, I shall not take any further notice of them in this place." Dr. Carswell then proceeds to describe, 1. True melanosis, of which there is only one kind. 2. Spurious melanosis, of which there arc three kinds:—!. From the introduction of carbo- naceous matter. 2. From the action of chemical agents on the blood; and 3. From stagnation of tlie blood. (See Illuslrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease, Fasc. on Melanoma.). According to Dr. Carswell's definition, true melanosis consists in the formation of a morbid, unorganised product of secretion of a deep brown or black colour, and the form and consistence of which present con- derable variety, solely in consequence of the in- fluence of external agents. Melanosis is more frequently observed in the ellular tissue than any other, and perhaps it is in consequence of that tissue entering into all the common structures and organs of the body, that melanosis is sometimes noticed in most of them. Thus, Andral describes examples of melanotic formations in a great number of the elementary tissues, where it may either exist singly, or in union with other organic disease. (See Preeis d'Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 459.) Melanotic productions may also be met with simultaneously in various tex- tures and organs. M. Martin Solon relates the case of a woman, in whose right inguinal glands, thighs, and breasts, melanotic tumors had formed. (See Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, t. xi.) M. Alibert gives another case, where the skin, dif- ferent regions of the cellular tissue, the medias- tinum, the mesentery, omentum, many lym- phatic glands, the thyroid gland, and the lungs, all contained melanotic deposits. In the cellular tissue, the most frequent seat of true melanosis, the melanotic matter is formed after the manner of secretion, accumulates in the cells of that structure, and gradually acquires the form of tumors of various sizes. A similar mode of for- mation is still more conspicuous in loose cellular tissue, and particularly on the surfaces of serous membranes, like those of the pleura and peritoneum. The next variety, noticed by Professor Carswell in the seat and mode of formation of melanotic matter, is that of its deposit in the substance or molecular structure of organs, after the manner of nutrition. Lastly, he adverts to the detection of melanotic matter in the blood, chiefly that con- tained in the venous capillaries, and under cir- cumstances which prove that it must have been formed in these vessels. See Illustrations of tlie Elem. Forms of Dis. Fasc. on Melanoma.) There are four varieties of true melanosis. (See Andral, Precis d'Anat. Pathol, t. ii. p. 446.) The following names have been applied to them :— 1. The puncliform (melanose infiltree) is that in which the melanotic matter presents itself m minute points or dots in the texture of an organ. It is principally noticed in the lungs and liver. 2. Tuberiform melanosis (concretions m^lan- iques, melanose en masse) is the most common vari- ety of it, and is occasionally met with in most of the organs of the body, and sometimes on the surfaces ot serous membranes. " In the former situation (says Dr. Carswell) the tumors are generally globular, and in the latter not unfrequently pyriform. They are most frequently found single in organs, and aagregated in cellular and adipous tissues ; and have, perhaps, never been found limited to one organ, the deposition of the melanotic matter tak- ing place simultaneously or successively » g«f; many organs, or in the cellular tissues of the dil- f™"nVregion; of the body. The melanotic tumors are most numerous in the cellular and «d.pou tis- sues, and from their aggregation produce h-bulated or irregularly shaped masses of f. J'^^ lanotic tumours are sometimes founded bj c^sts.