quire an extreme degree of density. Tlie tumour seldom attniiia a great size, nor does it become soft or ulcerate. The cancerous cachexia is commonly well marked, and the patient slowly succumbs, generally without other organs being affected, or much local sulfering. Excision is the only treatment applicable, but it should be practised before the cord or lymphatic glands are implicated. On examination scirrhus of the testis differs in no respect from the same disease in other parts, ex- cept that the " stnny hardness," so characteristic of this alfection in the mamma, is not so marked. Small portions of bone have sometimes been found studding it in very old cases. Melanosis, and Colloid Disease, of tie Testicle have been met with, but they require no special description. (Vide article Cancer.) Cruveilhier in his Anatomie Patholoyique, liv. xix., has figured melanotic deposits in the testes, from a man who died of this disease in other organs. Early removal of the diseased organ presents the only chance of recovery. Epithelioma has beep known to involve the testicle by extension of the disease from the scrotum, but never to commence in the gland aa a primary affection. (Vide Article, Canckb.)] [JVervous Affectioiis of tie Testicle are met with under two forms—a Uw Neuralgia of the spermatic nerves, possessingall the characters of tic douloureux in other parts ; and a more common affection known as Irritable Testis, which consists in an ab- normal sensibility of the testes, increased to severe pain by the slightest touch. M. Sarrau proposes to call this fatter affection Chronic Neuralgia (These sur la Ncvralgie du Tesiicide, 1811); but it differs from true neuralgia in the frequent existence of this morbid condition on both sides of the bod}', in the absence of sudden remissions and paroxysms of pain, and in the comparative freedom from suffering so long as the patient is at rest, although it returns with the slightest movement or contact. These nervous affections of the testicle are met with in weakly irritable persons, and are usually associated with deranged health or a disordered ttate of the digestive organs. They commonly iirise from some affection of the genito-urinary sys- tem, and most frequently from abuse of the sexual organs. Thus they will occur from great venereal excitement or excess, repeated masturbation, fre- quent nocturnal emissions, and from enforced and {irotracted continence; they may follow an attack of Orchitis or epididymitis, especially when the seminal ioiv is obstructed or retarded by closure of any i>art of the duct ; they are present somewhat often N persons affected with varicocele ; a stone in the u'ethra, kidney, or ureter may occasion them. Sometimes, like neuralgic diseases in general, they nppear to depend upon that depressed state of health which results from malaria, and the paro,xysms have then been known to occur at regular intervals.] Neuralgia of the Testicle is an exceedingly pain- 1 affection of the part, generally unaccompanied ly any swelling or other obvious change in it. The suffering is frequently of the most excruciating ind, and of long duration, though subject to ccasional remissions, like neuralgic pains in other arts of the body. [It may occur at any age, but is most frequent fter puberty. The pain commences suddenly in TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE 707 one testicle, and shoots np into the abdomen or thigh, resembling by its intensity an attack of colic ; the scrotum is corrugated, and the testis drawn forcibly against the external abdominal ring by spasm of the cremaster muscle. The pa- tient is bent double with pain, is constantly shift- ing his position, or rolls in agony on the floor, nausea and even vomiting are frequently induced! Between the paro.xysms the gland may often be handled without exciting pain, unless the afl^ction has been of long duration, when the testicle be- comes swollen and perhaps a little inflamed. It occurs in weak, nervous, dyspeptic persons, and is nearly always accompanied by derangement of the digestive organs.] The patient frequently complains of pain in the testicle when there is no disease in it. There is a state of the nerves of the part which makes hint feel pain in it, although there is no inflammation nor any other actual disease ; and this is all that we mean when we talk of a neuralgic affection in this or any other part of the body. You will find an example of it in persons in whom a large calcu- lus passes from the kidney to the bladder. As soon as the calculus has passed a little way down the ureter, the patient complains of pain in the tes- ticle, which is at the same time frequently drawn up, by the spasmodic action of the cremaster muscle, into the groin. When you examine it, you find it of its natural size and natural shape, at hrst not even tender, although excessively painful- in short, there is a painful affection of the testicle' depending not on any disease of the organ itself but on the influence which the calculus, in pass- ing down the ureter, exercises on the spermatic plexus of nerves. Disease in the kidney will sometimes produce pain in the testicle, akhou-.h there IS no reason to believe that a calculus, or other substance, has escaped from the kidney into the ureter. {Sir Bcvjamin Brodie, Loud. Med. Gaz., vol. xiii. p. 620.) In the dissection of a testicle that has been the seat of neuralgia, no change of structure can be tound. In one instance, which I attended, there was occasionally a little enlargement of the orean though for the most part it remained free frani all swelling, or other manifest alteration. If the com- plaint be connected with functional disturbance of the hver or stomach, the chance of relief must depend upon the possibility of curing this primarv affection. In many cases, which appear to be entirely nervous, or not associated with anv other perceptible fault in the system, large doses of the sulphate of quinine, or of the carbonate of iron may be prescribed; or, if the disease assume an intermittent type and come on periodicallv, the liquor arsenicalia. In some ciises, the muriate of morphia, opmm or hyoscyamus, joined with smtill aoses ol calomel, will answer best. As local applications, leeches are of little value unless the testicle be swollen, but a plaster consist- ing of one third of extract of belladonna and two tliirds of soap cerate, or the veratria ointment, de- serves to be particularly specified. [The tincture of aconite applied aa a lotion will deaden the sensibility for a time. Ulisters to the scrotum followed by some anodyne oint.nent liavo been found of service : or the hypodermic injection of morphia may be tried. Warm baths and ],ot fomentatioiia will often give temporary relief. On no account should the gland bo excised, ns tho v./.'i