WHITLOW. 1018 plaint, to the hard and unyielding nature of the skin of the finsrer. To the same cause they also ascribe the difficultj' of perceiving any fluctuation after matter is formed; and the slowness with which the pus makes its way outward. The third kind of whitlow is distinguishable from the others hy the following circumstances. With the most excruciating pain there is but little Bwellins; of the finger, but a vast deal of the hand, particularly about the wrist, and up the forearm {thecal abscess). The pain extends to the hand, wrist, elbow, and even the shoulder. When suppuration takes place, a fluctuation can never be felt in the finger, though it may often be distinctly perceived in the hand, at the wrist, or even some- where in the forearm. The case frequently is accompanied with considerable fever. The disease is seated in the tendons and their sheaths, and the power of moving the fingers, and even the whole hand, is lost. Authors describe the fourth kind of whitlow as arising principally from an inflammation of the psriosteum. Suppuration generally follows very soon, the usual consequence of which is a caries, or rather a necrosis, of the subjacent finger-bones. Mr. Wardrop favoured the public with an ac- count of a particular species of whitlow, which, from its severit}', he denominated the onychia ma- ligna, now generally considered of venereal origin, and curable by mercury or iodide of potassium. " The commencement of this disease is marked by a degree of swelling, of a deep red colour, iu the soft parts at the root of the nail. An oozing of a thin ichor afterwards takes place at the cleft formed between the root of the nail and soft parts, and at last the soft parts begin to ulcerate. The ulcer appears on the circular edge of the soft parts at the root of the nail ; it is accompanied with a good deal of swelling, and the skin, particu- larly that which is adjacent to the ulcer, has a deep purple colour. The appearance of the ulcer is very unhealthy, the edges being thin and acute, and its surface covered with a dull yellow or brown-coloured lymph, and attended with an ichorous and very fetid discharge. The growth of the nail is interrupted, it loses its natural colour, and at some places appears to have but little con- nection with the soft parts. In this state (says Mr. Wardrop) I have seen the disease continue for several years, so that the toe or finger became a deformed bulbous mass. The pain is sometimes very acute ; but the disease is more commonly indolent, and accompanied with little uneasiness. This disease affects both the toes and the fingers. I have only observed it on the great toe, and more frequently on the thumb than any of the fingers. It occurs, too, chiefly in young people: but I have also seen adults alfected with it." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 135, 136.) The causes of whitlows are generally of a local nature. Writers enumerate the following as tiie most common : a contusion ; suddenly warming the finger when it is exceedingly cold; pricks with needles, or other sharp instruments ; and the in- sinuation of irritating matter into scratches on the finger. A surgeon, in operating for a fistula in ano, has been known to cut his finger, and have, in consequence of the accident, a very severe and dangerous kind of whitlow. Ricliter also mentions a person who had a most obstinate whitlow, in consequence of a slight wound on the finger, in examining the head of a horse that died ofgland.'rs. Sometimes the cause of a whitlow depends on a splinter or thorn, which continues l.idged in the part. Very often, no particular cau.-ie whatever can be assigned for the complaint. The first case, which occurs about the root of the nail, ought to be opened as soon as possibU-. When this plan is not adopted, the matter is apt to penetrate more deeply, and occasion a loss of the nail. When an effectual opening is not made, the matter collects again. In general, a detach- ment of the cuticle takes place, as far as the abscess extends. When the inflammation has been violent, and the matter has made its way to the root of the nail, the nail itself is in general gradually detached ; while the denuded portion of the nail acts on the sore as a foreign bod)^ and hinders it from healing. Hence the surgeon should repeatedly cut away as much of the lower edge of the nail as he can, and insinuate a little soft lint between the margin of the nail and the sore, in order to keep the latter from being irritated hy the former. In proportion as the old nail gradually separates, a new one makes its appearance. When matter lies under the nail, an opening should be made through the part as speedily as possible, for the discharge of the abscess. In order to perform this operation, Richter advises the surgeon to scrape the nail till it is as thin as it can well be, when it may be cut through with a bistoury. In the second species of whitlow, suppuration may sometimes, though very rarely, be prevented by the timely employment of proper means. When the pain is violent, and acute fever pre- vails, it may be advisable to bleed the patient. In a few severe cases, the application of three or four leeches to the affected finger has been known to procure prompt relief. Platner advises the finger to be for some time immersed in water, as warm as the patient can bear. Some recommend the external use of camphorated spirit, or the lini- nientum ammoniae ; while others advise the affected finger to be plunged in a warm solution of soap, or an alkaline lotion. I have known a few wliii- lows resolved by blackening the skin over the in- flamed part with nitrate of silver. (See Higgin- hollom, On Nitrate of Silver, ed. 2.) Wlien whitlow is occasioned by a prick, particular care must be taken that no extraneous substance re- main in the puncture. When the symptoms do not abate by the fourth day, Richter reconnnends an opening to be made. Even when no fluctuation is discovered, he ap- proves of this practice, and states, that although no matter may be discharged, the patient always derives infinite relief from the operation. Tjie benefit, he says, may either be imputed to the bleeding, or to the division of the hard tense skni, which compresses the subjacent inflamed parts. Sometimes, the collection of matter can be plainly felt, and in this case there can be no hesitatioa about the place where the opening should be made. However, it may be proper to remark, that the opening should always be made sufficiently large* When the surgeon makes a small puncture, it soon closes again, and a repetition of the operation be- comes necessary. When opening the abscess is o layed,the theca of the flexor tendons easily become aftected, or the matter may spread to a consider ) extent under the skin. Sometimes it Biases