MAMMA, DISEASES OF. 280 gradually enlarges, and if not deeply seated, and containing merely thin fluid, becomes fluctuant. If the cyst is nmltilocular, the tumour presents an irregular nodulated aspect, somewhat resembling encephaloid. The surrounding tissues become indurated ; the patient experiences now and then slight dragging and darting pain in the part, which disappears for a while, and recurs when the growth has increased in size, but she is chiefly incommoded by the weight. It is true that single cysts seldom grow larger than an apricot. Marini, however, ■witnessed an instance in which the cyst contained nine pounds of liquid (Virchoto Handbuch, von Veil, p. 389). Multilocular cysts often attain a considerable volume, and may eventually ulcerate on the surface, from interstitial absorption of the tegumentary covering. Tumors of this kind may be distinguished from carcinomatous, by their being little disposed to adhere to the skin, by the nipple and adjacent glands remaining unaltered, and by the genera! health continuing imdisturbed. In order to dis- cover fluctuation, a ready method is to seize the tumor by one of its diameters between the thumb and middle finger of the left hand, pressure is then to be made upon the two extremities of this diameter, so as to render the tumor more promi- nent, and by applying the pulp of the forefinger of the right hand on the culminating part of the tumor, the presence of fluid may be perceived. For more exact diagnosis, resort may be had to exploratory puncture; again, where the tumor is prominent and filled with limpid serous fluid, it will possibly appear translucent when placed between the eye and a candle in a dark chamber, like a hydrocele. M. Velpeau had recourse to this means of diagnosis in the case.of a young man, IS years of age, in whom a tumor of large size occupied the whole mammary region, and extended towards the axilla. The treatment of simple cysts resolves itself into puncturing with a trocar, withdrawing the fluid through the canula, and injecting a solution of iodine (tincture of iodine one part, water two parts), or else applying a blister over the part, so as to set up adhesive inflammation. Compression of the breast is advantageous after using the injec- tion. If the walls are unusually thick, a free in. cision may be made, and oiled lint introduced into the cavity, which may be subsequently pencilled over with nitrate of silver, in order to destroy the secreting surface. Ponderous multilocular cysts are to be got rid of only by complete extirpation, the operation being performed to relieve the patient from its inconvenience, and to satisfy her mind. Indeed, the extirpation of tumors of this description is not really called for, except when they are bulky and progressively increasing, the seat of constant uneasiness, or when, as Sir B. Brodie observes, they have reached that stage in which it is evident that spreading ulceration, sloughing, and hreraorrhage—the usual results of an ulcer oc- curring in a diseased structure—mustensue,and that no remedy is likely to be of any service to the patient except the removal of the affected parts.] The Hydaltd Tumor of the Breast, of Sir A. Cooper. [The objective symptoms are the presence of a sacculated swelling, which is elastic to the touch, and of a peculiar consistency and form, and ■which contains ecclmiococci. One of the most impor- tant signs for the diagnosis is furnished in cerlaln cases by percussion. M. Piorry was the first to call attention to a sensation which is felt by the finger employed in percussion, or the hand, when press- ing the swelling, a sort of vibration or trembling (Jrcmissement'), which resembles the ching of a repeater, or a spring-sofa, in the finger that taps it. According to Kuchenmeister {^Parasites of the Human Body, vol. i., p. 225, Syd. Ed.), the hydatid trembling can only occur when several gelatinous tremulous cysts are in any way set in motion. The affection originates in the introduction and deve- lopment of the parasitic ova. (See Hydatids.) The affection is comparatively rare. Mr, Birkett records, in his work on Diseases of the Breast, an instance of a woman, aged fifty-one, the subject of an hydatid cyst in the left breast for six years, and which on removal gave all the true characters by which a hydatid is known. A case is detailed in the Lancet (Nov. 23, ] 861), which had been under the care of Mr. Mitchell Henry in Middlesex Hospital, of true hydatid cysts, developed in the left breast of a woman twenty-eight years of age, who when a child had been subject to tapeworm. She had been troubled with the affection for five years. The tumor had progressively increased in size, and gave a good deal of pain of a lancinating cha- racter. It was about as large as a medium-sized orange, had an indistinct feeling of fluctuation, and was freely movable. There were two enlarged and slightly indurated glands in the axilla. On incising the tumor, after extirpation, about half an ounce of slightly opalescent transparent fluid escaped, together with a hydatid the sizet of a walnut, as from a sac, to the inner surface of which . a large number of smaller ones were attached. The walls of the cyst were much thickened. Numerous and well-developed ecchinococci were revealed on microscopic examination. The patient recovered. In the instances recorded by De Haen and Las- sus, the cyst contained both serosity, and several hydatids. Graefe has published the particulars of a case in which the tumor was deeply seated under the pectoralis major muscle ; it was the size ol a hen's egg, and the seat of intolerable pain. The patient was an unmarried female, twenty'-five years of age. A complete cure followed two months after the operation {Joum. des Progres, t. viii., p. 255). Spontaneous cure has been known to result from the tumor bursting, and when once got rid of, relapses are rare. By way of treatment, it has been proposed to employ the galvanic acapuncture, and also incision followed by the use of irritant injec- tions- but, on the whole, the most satisfactory course is extirpation, especially when the affection is a source of distress and uneasiness to the patient.] Simple arnnic Tumor of the Breast. [Under this head may be included tumors which form m different parts of the breast, and which show no signs of malignancy. An ordinary form .s that termed 'adenoid' by M. Velpeau and by M. Lebert 'partial hypertrophy of the glandular structure.' This kind of tumor is prmc.H i met with at the circumference of the gland in persons of healthy appearance. Its ' from that of a filbert to that of a ^1^^'^^;^^;^ When examined with a light ? '^^^^ peculiar and irregular surface, not so '"d"ra^^^^^ that attendant upon scirrhus, nor yet possessmg the