[62] INFLAMMATION. that the bleedings occurred which wc have con- demned in the art. EiiYSirELAS, and those which are equally condemned by Marshall Hall in the first part of his essay on blood-letting (1830). The years in which Watson describes a true and universal depression after the cholera, are those in wliick Craigie'and Mackintosh revelled in blood- letting. From the foregoing details we may conclude that there is evidence of change of opinion, as well as of type of disease, to account for the cessation of bleeding. But this cessation is not peculiar to the present day. It is well shown by Dr. G. W. Balfour, in an essay on Hematophobia {Edin. Med. Journ., 1858-9 p. 214), and in his before-quoted work, that bleeding and no bleeding are recurrent pheno- mena. Erasistratus, the grandson of Aristotle, opposed bleeding on many of the grounds on which it is opposed at this day. He declared that it lessened the vital powers ; that blood extravasated in inflammation (exudation) could not be withdrawn by bleeding ; thatif it were desirable to empty the vessels, one day's fasting was equivalent to the de- traction of blood. We have seen that his sect was in full vigour in Rome in Galen's time, 400 years later. Following Dr. Balfour, who has written ex- haustively, we find Asclepiades (about 100 B.C.) de- claring that pleurisy bore bleeding on the Helles- pont, but not in Rome nor Athens. Van Helmont denounced bleedincr, and relied on dried goats-blood in pleurisy. Bontekoe, James Sylvius, and Porzio, in the seventeenth century, were as averse to bleeding as Todd and Skey in the nineteenth. Porzio published, in 1683, an amusing book en- titled Erasistratus, in the form of a dialogue between this physician and Van Helmont against Galen and Willis. Of course blood-letting is demolished so far as rhetoric can do it, save that it is permitted in threatened rupture of blood-vessels. The most amusing part of the book, and the truest vindication of sensible practitioners who have bled in all ages, is a collection of the cautions and restrictions against blood-letting which are contained m Galen's works, and which, if literally acted upon, would serve almost as absolute prohibitions against bleed- ing any but robust men in temperate climates. We must mention Gideon Harvey(art. on En'pec- iaiion. Lend. 1689) as one of a class that is never wantiniT ; a man who had the honour of an answer from Stahl {Sileni, §c.), and whose shrewdness m pointing out some obvious blots in the practice ot his time was marred by the indecent scurrility ol his language. His reprobation of the BidcJier Doctors, as he calls those who bled, is closely imitated by the notorious Samuel Dickson of our own day. (Fallacies of the Factdty, &c. What hilled Mr. Drummond ? .^c, Lond. 1843.) An equally scurrilous person, Dr. George Ihomp- whora F. HoiTmann calls Stahl's lickspittle, In the decade 18G0-70, panic was allayed, and a slight reaction took place. W. 0. Markham, in 1864 {On Bleediwj and Change of Type, Lond. 1866), whilst scouting the chaiige-of-type theory, and the ancient excessive bleeding, pleaded for the benefits of blood-letting in acute inflammations attended with difficulty of breathing, in order to diminish the work of the heart. Now inflamma- tions of the chest and abdomen are both attended with difficulty of breathing ; and the relief in cephalic inflammation is also great, so that Mark- ham's plea applies to every inflammation of vital organs. Laycock, Gairdner, Stokes, Richardson, and most of our eminent teachers, showed that it was possible to hold middle ground between the " vampyre " and the " incendiary." published in ]670,AiAioTtacns,or, Ihe I rue Way of Preserving the Dloud. His way was by purges and sudorifics. , r . Space does not allow me to do more than relei to Stahl, Bordeu. Hoffmann, and others who con- tinned the tradition of moderation through the eighteenth century ; but I may say of H"-'^"''^"' that great physician who deserves to be callcct tiie Sydenham of his century—that whoever reads his description of pneumonia and pleurisy, will see that he knew well when not to bleed. Tlius then we may consider blood-letting a remedy which has been grossly abused, but which still has most valuable uses. It is quite impossible to conceive that every physician was mistaken, or that, for instance, Armstrong's report of the benefit he got from being bled in fever {op. cit. p. 141) was a delusion. Bleeding diminishes the mass of blood, lessens the labour of the heart and lungs, relieves pain, moves the bowels, and sets the skin perspiring ; it increases the absorptive power of the blood ; and produces a most delicious sense of languor and repose, like that of the Turkish bath. {Surgeons' Vade Mecum, lOtb ed. p. 23.) " The patients whom it is allowable to bleed are those who have blood to spare—the robust with red lips, firm muscles, rustic open-air occu- pations, firm pulse, and rigid fibre. Pregnant women usually bear bleeding well. If the lips and conjunctiva are pale, showing deficiency of blood ; if the patient is bulky, soft, and flabby ; if there is any weakness or degeneration of the heart ; or if there is any continuous diseaae of as- similation—scrofula, Bright's disease, or the like- bleeding is not to be thought of. . , , j « Maimer of Bleeding.—G&nevsi bleeding should be executed in such a way as to cause slight faint- ness as quickly as possible. For this purpose the blood should be drawn as quickly as possible Irom a large orifice ; and, above all, the patient should sit or stand upright. ■ " Blood should be permitted to flow till pale- ness of the lips, sighing, nausea, fluttering pulse, and relief of the pain, indicate the «;>proac/t of faintness ; but full faintness should always be avoided. , , rr » " The quantity reqiured to produce this ettect on a healthy adult was ascertained by Marshall Hall to be about 15 oz.; but in robust adults at- fected with acute inflammatory or congestive at- tacks of the head or viscera, a greater quantity may be taken. " The inflammations in which bleeding is per- missible are sthenic inflammations of the great cavities, especially the chest and the eye. It is not allowable, as a rule, in the hypinotw class of maladies, nor in erysipelatous diseases ; nor in the case of injuries producing suppuration, as com- pound fractures ; nor if the disease be advanced towards suppuration or gangrene ; and very seldom indeed in the case of any zymotic disease, or in- flammation having a natural tendency to recover or traumatic inflammation of parts not essential '°''ioc«; Blood Icllwg.-li in a past generation