493 PUPIL. be as absurd to think of oiiiployiiig in instances only cue plan, as to have the idea of extending the same principle to all the forms and varieties of cataract. When the thing ia possible, it is considered by Beer most advantageous to make the artificial pupil rather towards the inner canthus ; though others express a preference to the centre of the iris. But, as he truly remarks, since the new opening must be where the cornea is transparent, the operator is frequently obliged to form it either below, towards the temple, or quite above ; for tliere is often only just room enough left ;it one point for conducting the necessary manoeuvres, with any degree of precision. According to Mr. Guthrie, " When an arti- ficial pupil cannot be made in the centre of the iris (from wliatever cause), the other parts of it are eligible in the following order : 1. The inferior part of the iris inclining inwards ; 2. The internal, a little below the transverse diameter of the eye ; 3. The inferior and external; the upper part being least eligible, from the eyelid covering that portion of the cornea in tlie natural state of the eye." {Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 442.) Mr. Guthrie agrees with Beer, that the place, in which the iris is to be perforated, generally depends more on the transparency of the cornea, than the choice of the operator. It is also re- marked, that a small artificial pupil, at the lower part of the iris, is infinitely more valuable than a large one at any other, which, in the natural state of the eye, is covered by the eyelid, or ranch out of the axis of vision. If the state of the cor- nea will permit it, Mr. Guthrie says a sound part of the ids should be selected, (p. 443.) He considers the external and internal margins of the iris, immediately on a line with the central trans- verse diameter, particularly unfavourable for the method in which the iris is separated from the ciliary ligament, because there the long ciliary arteries enter, and the attachment of the iris is firmer than at other points. Cheselden first devised a section of the iris, for the purpose of forming an artificial pupil, He proposed the introduction of a couching - needle, with a sharp edge only on one side, through the sclerotica, about half a line from the cornea, into the posterior chamber. After the iris had been perforated towards the external angle, and the point of the needle then pushed through the anterior chamber, as far as that side of the iris which is nearest the nose, the edge was turned backward, and the instrument witfi- drawn, so as to make a transverse division of that membrane. The account of the proposal, given by Cheselden himself in the Philusophical Trans, for 1728, is very incomplete; and, according to Mr. Guthrie, he did not actually perform the operation on the person, whose history he there relates, but only annexed to it an account of a particular operation which he considered worthy of record : a circum- stance which, from not being attended to, has been the source of considerable errors. {OperuUvc Surgery of the Eye, p. 395.) Morand, when he was in London, saw Cheselden form an artificial pupil; but the process, as described by Morand, differs from the above, inasmuch as the needle passed as far across the posterior chamber as two-thirds of the iris, when its edge was turned towards this membrane, which was thus cut, andl as much of it divided in withdrawing the instru- ment horizontally, as left an artificial pupil of an oblong form. Janin performed Cheselden's method as de- scribed by Morand, on two subjects with the utmost care possible, but not the smallest benefit followed; for, after the subsidence of the aympr toms produced by the operation, the transverse; section, made in the iris by the edge of the needle, reunited. {Mem. sur VCEil.) Mr. S. Sharp also saw a failure from the same cause. (On Opera- tions, chap. 29.) An accident occurred to Janin, in the act of extracting a cataract; viz. he included the iris together with the cornea, in Daviel's scissors, and! cut it perpendicularly, and the division remainedi permanent. This led him to propose a perpendi- cular incision as the best expedient for making an artificial pupil. His plan consisted in opening the cornea, as is practised for the extraction of this cataract, and in dividing the iris perpendicularly with scissors, near that part of the pupil which is next to the nose; for he affirms, that he has seen strabismus result from making the section towards the external side, on account of the too great diva- rication of the optical axes. Although the practice of making an incision: in the iris, or corotomia, is severely disapproved' of by Beer, who states that it admits of being practised only in very few cases, and is rendered! quite unnecessary by, what he denominates, the' two other better plans {Beer b. ii. p. 199), it is still' considered by some men of experience as having: recommendations, and the}' have therefore en- deavoured to improve it. However, it will only be in my power to notice in this work a few of itK modifications: That Cheselden's method ought not to be, iva- tirely rejected, there can now be no doubt. Like all other modes of forming an artificial papil, it. certainly does not merit exclusive preference, In addition to the testimony of Sir W. Adams-, tkw have that of Mr. Ware, to prove, that CheselAtm'a operation frequently succeeds. When the ^ipil had become closed, after an unsuccessful e.xti-aetioa of the cataract, Mr. Ware in several instances; made a new pupil, agreeably to Cbeseldten's modej. with the most perfect success. " The fibres of the; iris retracted as soon as they were divided, ami left the pupil very nearly of its natural size. Its shape was not quite round; but the sight was-iia- mediately restored, and to so great a degree,, as to enable the patient, by the help of suitable con- vex glasses, to see distinctly both near and distaiut objects, neither pain nor inflammation being can- sequent to the operation.'' Where there is a prolapsus of the iris,, through a breach of the cornea, involving more or less of the pupillary margin, Mr. Travers considers Cheselden's method the most applicable, viz. " the transverse division of the stretched fibres of the iris, and which, if the section be made in front of the membrane, i.e. from before backwards, admits of no improvement. The edges of the sec- tion instantly recede and form an excellent pupil." However, he afterwards adds, " that a partial ad- hesion of the pupillary margin may be combined with a healthy lens. In this case, the removal of the free border of the pupil, drawn by means of'