doned for the employment of the ligftture. But this is much less dangerous than is represented; while the inconveniences of the ligature are serious and numerous. [Those cases in which the poly- pus hangs down from the posterior nares into the pharynx are the most suitable for the application of the wire noose. They can be seen from the mouth, and the noose can be directed over the tumor by the fingers or by the aid of an appro- priate instrument. The wire can be.more conve- niently adjusted around the tumor without the canula in the first instance, and the ends of the wire afterwards passed through it. It is also better to use the canula and noose as an dcraseur and to remove the tumor at once than to have it slough in the nostril.] Caztsiics.—The cautery, formerly recommended for the cure of the polypus nasi, is now entirelj' re- jected; but red projections, not of the nature of a polypus, sometimes noticed within the nostrils of children. Sir A. Cooper cures by touching with a bougie armed with the argentum nitratum. The cysts of the hydatid polypus he also destroys by applying the muriate of antimony to them with a camel-hair pencil. Excision. — Sir A. Cooper has sometimes re- moved polypi by dividing their pedicle with a pair of probe-pointed scissors; but his experience has taught him that the disease, when thus extirpated, is more likely to return than when cured by ex- traction. When a polypus is vei-y large, and the pedicle grows from the side of the antrum, he also sometimes cuts through the root with a pair of curved scissors, and presses down the polypus at the back of the mouth with his finger, from over the velum pendulum palati, and thus removes it. He has never seen danger or difficulty arise from the plan, but, on the contrary, has known it answer in several instances in which the forceps had been employed through the nostrils in vain. (^Lectures, ^c. vol. ii. p. 352.) In the polypus, which arises from a relaxation of tlie Sclineiderian membrane, external astrin- gent applications may be first tried; such as ice- cold water, solutions of alum, muriate of ammonia, the tincture of muriate of iron, &c. These re- medies (says Richter) commonly lessen it, and fre- quently, when it is not very large, accomplish its entire removal. If this should not happen, there is no reason against putting a ligature round it. Here also we may venture to employ a cutting instrument, if it be in our power to do so. But the practice of extraction is not applicable in such cases. A strong solution of alum, introduced into the nostril with a dossil of lint, will also remove the hydatid polypus of young persons, as Sir Astley Cooper has explained. These polypi he compares to wet bladders hanging within the nose; they are not attended with pain, though with the inconve- nience of obstruction. Wiien pressed with the forceps, they burst, and discharge a fluid resem- bling mucus. The nose may be frequently cleared of them by instruments; but they are always re- generated. Whether astringents will cure them permanently, he cannot say positively. {Lectures, ^c. vol. ii. p. 353.) [Mr. Bryant of Guy's Hospital has lately intro- duced a new method of curing the ordinary gelati- nous polypus by a powerful astringent (tannin) used as a snuff or propelled by sufllation into the nostril. This mode of treatment is far preferable fPU8. 467 to all operative procedure, and if it prove as suc- cessful in the hands of others as in his, the profeg- sion and the sufferers from this malady will be greatly indebted to him for a vast improvement in the treatment of a most distressing disease, the management of which by the means hitherto in use every sixrgeon must confess to be tedious and unsatisfactory. The importance of Mr. Bryant's suggestion, as well as the able and concise man- ner in which he has introduced it to the profession, render it a matter of justice to him that it should be h«re fully stated in his own words, and attested by his own cases. " There has hitherto been," he writes, " but one kind of practice adopted for the treatment of these nasal polypi to which anything like success can be attributed; and that is, their forcible abruption by means of instruments. Some surgeons employ a large pair of well-made forceps, which are care- fully applied to the peduncles of the growths; whilst others prefer the noose, or instrument by which a wire or cord is slipped over the body of the polypus and its neck encircled. In both in- stances the growth is forcibly torn away from its attachments and relief afforded. As far as it goes, this treatment is doubtless good; and may be era- ployed whenever the polypus is of sufficient size to require interference; but all surgeons are aware of the unsatisfactory condition of patients who have been thus treated. It is true the chief portions of the disease for which the surgeon has been consulted may be removed, and a certain measure of relief afforded to the patients; but how long can this relief be promised ? How soon will the same symptoms of the disease reappear, and a fresh operation be demanded, to be followed by the same relief, relapse, and surgical interference ? We all know that these cases may go on during the patient's life, that the period of immunity from the disease may vary in different patients, or even in the same patient at different periods; but we also know that, as a rule, a return will take place, and that sooner or later a repetition of surgical treatment will be called for. " It was this unsatisfactory state of matters which induced me to look about for a different plan of treatment; and having now employed it for some years with invariable success, I can with considerable confidence recommend it for general adoption. I am disposed to regard it as a practi- cal wrinkle of no mean value in the treatment of a hitherto very intractable affection, and it is with some little pleasure that I now bring it publicly before my professional brethren. I propose to demonstrate the practice by the quotation of cases. " Case I. The first case in which I was led to adopt the practice, in the year 1862, was in a young woman, E. C , aged thirty-two, who had been under my care at Guy's Hospital for several years. She had both nostrils affected with polypi, and for this she sought relief about every three months. Her nostrils were remark- ably small, so that the operation for removal was one of difficult}'. 1 had tried the injection of astringent lotions with no success, or with so little that it was not worth describing under that name, and gave them up. I then looked about for some powerful astringent that might be locally applied, and that would yet be innocuous to healthy mucous membrane, and found it in tannin. I ordered this to be used as u gnuff, the patient to get somo HU2