m\ UTERUS, RETROVERSION AND RETROFLEXION OF. the introduction of the catheter impracticable; or sliould^n formidable obstruction arise to the pas- sage of the fffices, the evacuation of the liquor auinii through the os uteri ; or, if this is not ad- visable, the puncture of the inferior part of the body of the uterus through the vagina (not the rectum), and the immediate restoration of the uterus, will be essential to the preservation of life. This operation has once been adopted in Eng- land, in the dispensary practice of my colleague, Mr. Baj-nhani. and I had the gratification of being associated with him in consultation upon it. The situation of his patient, who was six months ad vanced in pregnancy, was in every respect des perate ; and since it was impossible to pass any instrument through the os uteri, as a last resource, the uterus was punctured per reclmi, the liquor amnii drawn olf, and rectification then speedily effected. Recovery most fortunately took place ; and a more creditable and instructive case is not on record (See jEdi?i. Med. Journ. for April, 1830). Boyer cites an instance very similar, both ill its nature and result {Mai. Chir. t. x. p. 531), (See higleby, in Edin. Med. Journ. for January, 1835, No. 1-22). Mr. Lynn, a siu'geon in Suffolk, knew an in- stance of the bladder bursting, and the urine be- coming fatally extravasated in the abdomen, in a case of retroversion of the uterus, in consequence of the patient's refusal to submit to .paracentesis of the bladder. Retroversio uteri does not often happen, except in the third or fourth month of pregnancj'. If the uterus be pushed back bj' a distended bladder, and pressed against the sacrum, while the soft parts yield, it becomes, as it were, wedged, and is incapable of changing its position. In this immovable state, it presses upon the surrounding parts, and these upon it, so that a veiy serious train of bad symptoms is the consequence. It must not be supposed, however, that retro- version of the womb occurs only in .pregnant wo- iiicn, Schweighaiiser and Schmidt had even seen it more frequently in unimpregnated females. Although, in the case related hy Mr. Baynham, the puncture of the uterus was performed from the rectum, he states, that he does not consider this an eligible situation. " It was selected, because the uterine tumor may be said to have pointed most distinctly to the rectum. Perforation of the uterus, through the vagina, is preferable, since, without an equivalent advantage, even this small wound of the intestine ought to be avoided. Moreover, there will be less probability of injuring the placenta, which is usiuiUy attached to the fundus ; and trifling as the chance is of preserving the foetus, it is entitled to consideration. " The uterus, which in the case detailed by Mr, B., had become displaced about the end of the fourth month of pregnancy, continued in a state of retroversion at least six weeks, during which time the development of the ovum advanced, until it occupiid the whole cavity of the pelvis, the child being fixed beneath the pubes and the angle of the sacrum. This unnatural position of the uterus does not materially, if in any degree, im- pede the growth of the child, so long as the capacity ol the pelvis exceeds the bulk of the uterus ; and, before these proportions are likely to be reversed, n remedy must be applied, or the patient will be lost from mibchief done to the bladder. The dis- tension of the bladder (two gallons of urine having by the use of the catheter been obtained in six hours) may seem incredible. A still larger quan- tity was drawn off by Dr. Hunter, who, after re- tention had existed five days, procured at one time seven quarts, and nearly half that quantity in the afternoon of the same daj'. The further use of the instrument was impracticable ; and, after death, the bladder was found amazingly distended, being as large as the womb in the ninth month of gestation, and filling the whole cavity of the ab- domen " (See M. Baynham, Ediub. Med. Journ. for April, 1830, p. 261. Richler's Chir. Bihl. b. v. p. 1.32; b. ix. p. 310). As Mr. Weir haa re- marked, pregnancy is not always necessary for the production of this affection, although he conceives that the womb must be in a certain degree en- larged, either by pregnancy or disease, before it can become retroverted. " Desault," he observes, " relates an instance produced by a polypus, and I have seen a case, where there was chronic en- largement of the uterus, but no impregnation. Sir Ciiarles Rell mentions a fatal case of obstruction of urine, as having occurred in the practice of Mr. Cheyne, whore, on examination of the body after death, the womb was found enlarged by disease, which had produced the same effect as if enlarged from pregnancy; for its fundus had fallen into the hollow of the sacrum, and had formed adhesions to the rectum, while the os uteri, pressing upon the urethra, caused the obstruction. Mr. Pear- son {Obs. on Cancerous Complaiuis, p. 113) mentions a case of retroversion, where the womb was enlarged from cancer. The patient, with tlie view of curing the cancerous affection, adhered most rigidly to a diet composed of liquids only; and, in tlie course of four weeks, the severe pains were completely removed, the uterus reduced in size, and restored to its natural position. Dr. Burns mentions, that retroversion may take place, whenever the womb is enlarged to a certain degree by disease." Dr. Ashwell refers to a case, which occurred in a woman, 30 years of age, the mother of several children, who had been pushed down by two drunken men, one of whom fell across her {Guy's Hospital Rports, vol. i. p. 134). " Retroversion may also occur a short time after delivery, when the uterus is of that size which predisposes it for being thrown out of its true situ- ation." Mr. Weir adverts to a case, reported to him, in which a retroversion happened two days after delivery. The same occurrence is noticed by Callisen, and most of the cases recorded by Dr. Merriman are of this description (See Gla^ffow Med. Journ. vol. i. p. 262). It is ques- tionable whether the uterus in a perfectly healthy state can ever become retroverted. Dr. Denniaii was of opinion, that the case is possible; but tins is contrary to what is usually believed, and re- quires the confirmation of facts. One ol Mr. Weir's cases happened in a female 48 years ot age, iust after the catamenia had perinanei.tly ceased ; and Dr. Merriman has known of similar examples. At this crisis, the circumstance ol tlie uterus being apt to enlarge and grow h;^^'y '"aj explain the reason of its displacement (See u/a.s- ooiv Med. Journ. vol. i. p. 265). The first aim of a practitioner, consulted in n case of retroversio uteri, should be to empty the bladder and liirge intestines, and to relax the pans