CC6 SURGERY. gence is illustrated in the Report of the Venereal Commission of 18fi6', of which Mr. Skey was ehair- nuiii, and Mr. H. Spencer Smith secretary._ The contagion of the secondary suppurative accidents, proved by Wallace in 1835, is now generally ad- mitted, although long disputed by Ricord and his school. This has had an important bearing on the health of the military and naval forces, by the influence on them of rules laid down under the "Contagious Diseases Act." In treatment we have learnt to rely on the mild use ol mercurials, which, following Diday of Lyons, many English surgeons use now only when the evidence of con- stitutional infection is indubitable; and for secon- dary and tertiary symptoms, on the iodide of potassium, of which Wallace again first proved the usefulness. The salts of gold, silver, and platinum, the bichromate of potash, and other remedies, liave had a brief and unmerited popularity, lo Jonathan Hutchinson and to Wilksamongst Eng- lishmen, and to Virchow and Lancereaux abroad, we are especiallv indebted for great additions to our knowledge of the symptoms, history, and treat- ment of vi>ceral, nervous, and hereditary syphilis. Syphilisation, discovered by Auzias Turenne in 1844, and thoroughly investigated by Sperino in Italv'(18j3), by Boeck in Christiauia (1862), by James Lane and Mr. Gascoyen in this country (1869), must be here noticed as having a most im- portant bearing on all future investigations in this branch of surgery. , j The DISEASES OF BONES have been studied with great success by Brodie, Stanley, Fergusson, and Svme, and the museums of the past are loaded with specimens of limbs removed for necrosis, &c., which would now be treated by local means and saved. Brodie's investigations of abscess of bone, and of the diseases of the cartilages of joints, are lield to be masterpieces of philosophic and success- ful research. We shall have again to refer to this subject further on. In speaking of the suuGiCAL affections of NERVES we must mention especially the remark- able work of Smith of Dublin on neuromata (1849), and of Lockhart Claike on the pathologi- cal changes in the spinal cord in tetanus, both of which form starting-points for fresh paths to know- ledge on obscure afi'ections. The great work of Porter (1845), and the expe- riments of M. Notta, of Lisieu-x (185U), have only confirmed the researches of Jones on the influence of the clot in the arrest of hajraorrhage from the cut ends of ARTERIES. The surgeons ol Great Britain have continued to take an ample share in the study of aneurisms since the time of Hunter. 1 he school of Dublin surgeons demmistrated the prac- ticability of curing aneurisms jnessure on the artery at a distance above the aneurism, as advo- cated by Freeth. Using graduated pressure by ap- propriate apparatus they overcame the difhculties of sloughing of the skin, extreme pain, &c., and elevated the compression treatment into a practical and highly successful method. Bellinghani's work on this subject is classical. It was soon found that the pressure of the finger was a more successful and tjuicker mode of cure, inasmuch as it was better borne, and the pressure could be made more com- plete without causing pain. Isolated cases occurred ill Ireland and America without attracting much ailemion, till Viinzetti, of I'adua, established tins as a mode of treatment, and iu his hands, as well as tho§e of other surgeons, digital pressure now counts a splendid list of successes. The writer of this note invented and introduced into European practice a successful method of treating popliteal and other aneurisms hyJleMon of the limb at the joint opposite to the aneurism, which has often the effect of arrest- ing the flow of blood and consolidating the contents of the sac. Ligature by the Hunterian method has still many warm partisans (including Mr. Syme, of Edinburgh) as the best mode of treat- ment; he has had thirty-six successes of ligature of the femoral artery without any failure. It is, in all ordinary cases, the ullernalive method. For cases of exceptional character the old operation of Antyltus has been revived with brilliant success by Syme. Sir W. Fergusson lately used Brasdor's operation for an otherwise inaccessible iliac aneur- ism. The modern surgeon has besides at his com- mand the injection of coagulating fluids, especially perchloride of iron, and of galvano-pnncture ; the latter resource is especially useful for arterio- venous tumors and carotid aneurisms. The last and most brilliant advance in the treatment of aneurisms has been the cure of aortic aneurisms by Dr. Murray of Newcastle, and by Dr. Mapothcr of Dublin, within a few hours, by the powerful compression of the aorta under chloroform with Suter's aortic tourniquet. For the arrest of haemorrhage after division of arteries, torsion has been highly recommended as a substitute for ligatures, especially in the case of small arteries, for which it has, perhaps, been too little used. Sir James Simpson of Edinburgh has in an elaborate treatise urged the substitution of pressure on the cut ends of arteries by needles, which could be removed when the htemnstatic clot was sufficiently firm. Thus "the strangulation" of the extremity of the artery would be avoided, and primary union favoured by the " absence of small sloughs," while the metallic needles are less irritat- ing than the threads. Keith and Pirrieof Aberdeen especially, amongst British surgeons, have obtained excellent results with acupressure, and others^ have reported favourably; but many who have tried it consider it less simple than the ligature, more liable to be followed by secondary haemorrhage, and not more often followed by early or complete union of the wound. In France it is at present entirely condemned. It is being employed in Vienna by Billroth, and in Canada by Hingston, who report favourably. It is being largely tried, there is a great body of evidence in its favour, but it is still subjudke, and cannot yet be pronounced to have established its place in surgery as a permanent and general method. The whole question ot " tempo- rary ligatures" is being worked out afresh m England by Nunneley, Taylor, Tait, Humphry, and" others." {British Medical Journal, Jan. to March, 1868.) . , ,j , Passing from ligatures to sutures, it should be mentioned that IMarion Sims, of America, by the m- troduction of silver or iron wire sutures, which re- main long in silu without causing irritation or cutting iheir wiiy through the tissues, has rendered great service,and, in operations such as for vesico-vagmal fistula, has won great victories over diseases pre- viously very intractable. They have aided la.^.'Iy the progress of reparative surgery. By H'e penec- tion of the details of aUToi-i-astv much greater success is now attained than heretofore. I';rK"sson, Tcale, and several of the Utiblin surgeons; Nt'laton,