IGO sence of a portion of the sac of a burst encysted tumour. According to Mr. Travers, tlie lachrj'- mal gland often suppurates in children, and occa- sions an excessive swelling above the upper eyelid, depressing the tarsus so as completely to conceal the eye. The abscess, he says, may be conve- niently opened, and discharged beneath the eye- lid. {Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 228.) With respect to the treatment of any local inflam- mation in and about the lachrymal gland, the best means of relief would be leeches, fomentations, emollient poultices, and other common antiphlo- gistic remedies. The lachrymal gland is subject to scirrhous en- largement. Sometimes, though rarely, the gland is primarily affected. Schmidt never met with the disease confined to the gland. Gudrin removed one in the state of schirrus, and so mucli enlarged, that the eye was entirely covered by it. Tliis operation was performed with such dexterity that the ex- ternal straight muscle was not at all injured. Mr. Travers removed a scirrhous and enlarged lachrymal gland. The vision of the eye had suf- fered considerably during the growth of the tu- mour. The only deformity, after the operation, was a slight prolapsus of the eyelid. This gen- tleman recommends operation of this kind to be always done, if possible, beneath the eyelid. {Synopsis, 4-c. p. 228.) The lachrymal gland, in the state of scirrhus, has been successfully re moved by Mr. Todd (see Dublin Hospital Re ports, vol. iii.), by Mr. O'Beirne of Dublin, and Mr. Lawrence. {On Dis. of the Eye, p. 697.) The latter gentleman does not regard the disease as malignant, like true scirrhus. It does not be- come adherent to the surrounding parts. It does not contaminate the surrounding glands ; nor does it return after extirpation. (See also Guthrie's Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 159, &c., and J. Schmidt, Ueber die Krankheiten des Thr'dnenor- c/ans.) Cases are related, in which the secretion ot tears is said to have gone on as usual after the operation ; but it is conceived that the accounts cannot be correct. M. Magendie removed the lachrymal gland from rabbits, and tears were no longer secreted. (See R. Middlemore on Dis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 6 52.) Leeches, iodine, and mercury should be tried, before the operation is decided upon. [Mackenzie {On Dis. of the Eye, ed. 4, 1854), mentions an inflammation and suppuration of the glandulEB congregatse, in which the external angle of the eyelids is swollen, red, and painful, and if the Tipper lid is raised, several of the acini of the glandulEe congregatoe arc seen to be enlarged. The causes and treatment are similar to those of hor- deolum. Mr. Mackenzie admits the following kinds ot chronic enlargement of the lachrymal gland:—1. Simple hypertrophy ; 2. Chloroma, green tumour, or fibroplastic tumour ; 3. Scirrhus ; 4. Medullary fungus. Of the first kind is a case related in the Ann. d'Oeulist. t. xxiii. p. 145, Dru^elks, 18o0. For cases of chloroma, see Paget's Lectures on r«nio«)'s, lect. V. pt. ii.. Medical CawWe, vol. xlviu. p. 177, Lond. 1851) ; Burn's {Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 385, Glasgow, 1824) ; Dr. J. H. Balfour {Edinburgh Medical and JSii'-- giral Journal, vol. xliii. p. 319. Ediiibuigh 183o); Duiand Pardel {Journal JTebdoinadaire des Fro- gres des Sciences Medicuks, t. iii. p. 20/, Pans LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. 105G). In addition to these cases, see one by Williams, iu which the pericranium, dura mater, and various other organs were affected. {Medical Gazette, vol. xlv. p. 854, London 1849) ; Dr. King of Glasgow {Monildy Journal of Medical Science for August, 1853, p. 98); Vogel {Anatomic Patho- logique Generale, p. 199, Paris 1847); Lebert , p. - .,, {Physiologic Pathologique, t. ii.-p. 120, Paris 1845; (J. B.) Lancet, February 26, 1853, p. 203); Dr. Ilalpin Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, vol. i. p. 88, Dublin, 1846); Pemberton {Ibid. vol. iv. p. 246, Dublin 1847); Dr. A. Anderson {Monthly Journal of Medical Science, vol. viii. p. 464, Edinburgh 1848). Cases of scirrhus have been observed by Tra- vers {Himly Kranklieiten und Missbildzingen des menschlichen Auges, vol. i. p. 201, Berlin 1843); Lawrence (Ti'eatise on t/ie Diseases of the Eye, p. 798, London 1841); Genge {Atlas der Patholo- gischen Anaiomie, zweiter theil, 17th lief. tab. 3, Jena 1850). For medullary fungus, see Dr. Tortnal, jun. {Himly, Op.cit. vol. i. p. 292; Ammon, Klinische Darstellungen, vol. ii. p. 27, Berlin 1838). Mackenzie says, in cases of scirrhus or medullary fungus the operation can be regarded only as pal- liative. Chloroma or fibro-plastic tumour is a non- malignant disease; the circumstance, however, of its so frequently implicating other organs along with the lachrymal gland, and especially the dura mater, materially affects the prognosis. The mode of operating is to cut down directly over the tumour, through the integuments and fibrous layer of the upper lid parallel to the edge of the orbit. As the gland lies over the levator palpebrse, this muscle is avoided in this method of operation. The gland being exposed, projecting from the lach- rymal fossa, it is to be isolated as much as possible with the scalpel, then seized and drawn out with the double vulsellum, and its remaining adhesions divided. The eyeb.ill is to be removed if already destroyed. The moisture and lubricity of the conjunctiva remaining unaffected after extirpa- tion of the lachrymal gland, has partly given rise to the statement, that the patient continues capable of weeping. Tears are undoubtedly discharged, however, from an eye from which the glandula innominata has been removed, owing, no doubt, to the glandulffi congregatse being left untouched. For cases of encysted tumours in the lachrymal gland, see Mackenzie {On Diseases of Hie Eye, ed. 4 1854.) Concretions deposited from the tears occur m the sinuses of the conjunctiva, in the caruncula lachrymalis, and in the excreting lachrymal pas- sages; similar concretions are also met with in the Meibomian follicles. See Mackenzie (1. c p. 166, &c.)] ^ ., . From these subjects, I proceed to consider tiie diseases oi the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs; cases which, though of the most various natures, were formerly all confounded together, under the title of fistula lachrymalis. One im- portant improvement is the discrimination ol epiphora from stillicidium lachrymarum. In^' meaning of the former term being now applied tea watery state of the eye, occasioned by a redundant secretion from the lachrymal gland; while std te- dium lachrymarum is produced by causes wlucli interfere with the regular excretion ol the tears. This distinction at once informs us, that every case of disturbance of vision by the tears collecting ni