oino-liyoid muscles, and also from the jugular vein and carotid arteries, to which it was closely adherent, until he had freed it as far as the point, where the thyroid arteries originate. He then tied the superior and inferior thyroideal arteries, close to the tumor, and, on account of the free anastomoses, applied to each vessel two ligatures and divided it in the interspace. The more deeply the dissection now reached, the more hazardous did the operation appear, as, at every cut of four or five lines, he was obliged to tie two or three arteries, which was done with great difficulty. Atter most cautiously dissecting to the base of the tumor, which was firmly attached to the thyroid cartilage, and the three upper rings of the trachea, he met with so many arteries, for the most part as large as the radial, or digital, that, in order to prevent further loss of blood, he decided to tie the base of the swelling, and then cut away the tumor above the ligature. For this purpose, he used a blunt-pointed aneurismal needle, armed with two four-threaded ligatures. This was passed throu.'h the middle of the base, while the tumor was pulled upwards ; and one ligature was then firmly tied over the lower, and the other over the upper half of the base. For the sake of being still more sure ot commanding the haemorrhage, Hedenus also ap- plied a third ligature all round the swelling, and he then extirpated the diseased gland, without any bleeding from the part included in the ligatures Ihese were now fastened at the sides of the wound with adhesive plaister. The whole surface of the wound was sprinkled with powdered gum arable, over which was laid agaric, wet with The- den s vulnerary lotion. These applications having been covered with charpie, the lips of the wound were drawn towards each other with adhesive plaister, which was also covered with compresses, wet with vinegar, and renewed every six or eieht minutes. ° The patient suffered a great deal of indisposition, which at first chiefly consisted of difficult deglu- tition, severe pain all over the riKht side of the head, imperfect use of the arm, frequent couo-h, and hoarseness. In the afternoon, blood began"to' flow through the bandage, and, as the bleedino- had not abated, after an hour's pressure with the hand, the dressings were removed, and the blood found to proceed not from any particular artery, but from all the wounded surface. The wound' was again springled with gnm arabic, which was covered with sponge and a bandage : two surgeons were also directed to keep up pressure with their hands. The day after the operation, the febrile symptoms ran high, but in two days subsided again. On the eighth day, all the ligatures came away, even that which had encircled the tumor, and a large quantity of fetid matter was discharged! Soon afterwards a considerable bleeding arose! wliich however was stopped with sponge and alum' powder. On the sixteenth day, another serious h<emorrhage was occasioned by a convulsive cough i and life was endangered by the loss of not less 1 than two pounds of blood. The bleeding, which < came from the upper angle of the wound, was 1 stopped by means of a piece of sponge, dipped in I rectified spirit, and covering the wound and in- < deed the whole neck with compresses, wet with ^ vinegar, pressure being also kept up on the sponifc with the hand. The dangerous state of the jm- • t ent may be conceived, when it is known thai THYROID GLAND, DISEASES OF. 741 there was now a deadly paleness of his whole body, languid eyes, dimness of vision, loss of hear- ing and speech, and extreme prostration of the vital powers. With the aid of judicious treatment, however, he rallied, and in the end left the hos- pital quite cured. In another case operated upon by Hedenus, the difiiiulties were even greater, owing to the exten- sion of a portion of the right lobe of the thyroid gland, as far back as the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra ; but after the third day from the operation, the progress to recovery was not in- terrupted by any bleedings. (See Cfrae/e's Jnurn. b. II. p. 237, S[c. or the Quarter/)/ Journ. of Foreign Med. No. xix.) J y There can be no doubt that the method adopted by Hedenus was well calculated to ob- viate the great source of immediate danger, viz. the bleeding. So long as it was practicable, he took up every vessel, which he exposed or divided; and when this plan could not be continued, he tied the base of the tumor, ere he detached the enlarged gland from the larynx. This tying of the base of the swelling, though sometimes practised on other occasions, as in the removal of diseased axillary glands, constitutes the chief peculiarity of Hedenus's method. Mr. Listen has more than once removed enlarged portions of the thyroid body, which had caused^se- rious inconvenience, and with safety, by combining mcision and ligature. The coverings of the ti° mor are divided and turned back, the dissection 18 continued towards the base of the mass, as far as It can be done with safety ; strong needles, tixed in handles, are passed underneath it from above downwards, and from the side, crossing the o-«\ ''t^ /^'■ac<^•ca^ Surgery, p. It t).j By means of these, the tumour is stran- gulated. I saw one case in University College Hospital, where Mn Listen thus extirpated a con- siderable portion of a large bronchocele from a young woman's neck. A case has been published, in which Klein at- tempted the removal of an enlarged thyroid gland • the patient, a boy, eleven years of age, died on the operating table. (See Jown. der Chir. b i p. 120. 8vo. Berlin, 1820 ; or the Qaarlerh Journ. of Foreign Medicine, vol. ii. p. 380 ) The removal of the thyroid gland was attempted by M. Uoux: after an operation, which lasted above an hour, and the application of 47 ligatures, about one hall of the gland, of the size of an orange, was 'AT:'^^'- P'"'«n' surviving 56 hours. The Hopital-Interne, who relates this case, remarks that we may place this amongst the operations' which the prudent surgeon will scarcely feel him- selt ju-stified in undertaking. (See J. G. Crosse, m Frovwotal Med. Chir. Trans, vol, v.) celc "'^ s:ood account of Broncho- G««cA^, Chirurgicnl Works, vol. Ii. „. 96. ; vol n n 209 n?"" * KV^""'' Chirurgical Journal, vol Ti" r.ll-^' , ' • '^In^acarne, Lettre sur I'litat .l- Journal, vol. iv. p. 279. Odier's Manuel <Ip M," l,.r,, , Pratique, 8vo. Gunjjve, 1811. Vr. Reem's l'^l^^r l Cret nism in H.lin. ,vie,l. and SuVrjTrnn "^'^ ^ Irait^ clu GoUic, clUu CrdiiiMBin,.^«. F U.'FodirJ,