SURGERY. 656 of all the other sciences, and from the capture of Alexandria by the Saracens under Amrou, Vice- roy of Egypt, in 641, until the end of the tenth century, nothing prevailed hut the dark clouds of ignorance and barbarism. The Arabians, who be- came masters of a great part of the Roman Em- pire, dug up the Greek manuvciipts, which lay buried under the ruins of the libraries; translated them; appropriated to themselves the doctrines which they contained; impoverished them by ad- ditions; and transmitted to posterity only enormous compilations. In a word, such are the treatises of Rhazes, Hali-Abbas, Avicenna, Averrhoes, and Albuciisis, the most celebrated of the Arabian au- thors. Inventors of a prodigious number of in- struments and machines, they appear to have calculated the efficacy of surgery by the richness of its arsenals, and to have been more anxious to inspire terror than confidence. As an instance of the cruelty of their methods, I shall merely notice, that, in order to stop the bleeding after amputation, they plunged the stump in boiling pitch. The fate of medicine was not more fortunate. In vain the school of Salernum, founded about the middle of the seventh century, made some at- tempts to revive its splendour. As a modern writer observes, medical science, seated on the same benches where the doctrine of Aristotle, ac- commodated to religious opinions, was the subject of endless controversies, imbibed, as it were by contagion, the argumentative and sophistical ma- nia, and became enveloped in the dark hypotheses of scholastic absurdity. {Riclierand, Nosogr. t. i. ed.2.) The universal ignorance (continues this author); the pretended horror of blood—the dogma of a religion, which shed it in torrents for useless quar- rels; an exclusive relish for the subtleties of the schools, and speculative theories, are circum- stances further explaining the profound darkness which followed these empty labours. About the middle of the twelfth century (1163), the Council of Tours prohibited the clergy, who then shared with the Jews the practice of medicine and sur- gery in Christian Europe, from imdertaking any bloody operation. It is lo this epoch that the true separation of medicine from surgery must be referred. The latter was abandoned to the laity, the generality of whom, in those ages of barbarism, were entirely destitute of education. The priests, however, still retained that portion of the art which abstained from the efifusion of blood. Roger Rolandus, Bruno, Gulielmus de Salicetus, Lan- franc, Gordon, and Guy de Chauliac, confined thefmselves to commentaries on the Arabians; and, if the latter autlior be excepted, they all disgraced surgery by reducing it nearly to the mere business of applying ointments and plasters. Guy de Chau- liac, however, the last of the Arabians, is to be honourably excluded from such animadversion. His work, written at Avignon in 1368, in the pon- tificate of Urban the Fifth, to whom he was phy- sician, continued to be, for a long while, the only classical book in the schools. It may be observed, that as he imitated in every respect the other Arabian physicians, and, like them, thought that it did not become a priest to deviate from the aus- terity of his profession, he has passed over in si- lence the diseases of women. At length, Antonio Beneveni, a physician of Florence, began to insist upon a truth of the highest importance to the extension of surgical knowledge, viz., that the compilations of the ancients and Ara- bians ought to be relinquished for the observation of nature. (Z)e abditis Ilerum Causis. Florent. 1507. 4to.) A new era now began. The moderns were convinced, that by treading servilely in the footsteps of their predecessors, they should never even equal, much less surpass them. The labours of Vesalius also gave birth to anatomy, illuminated by which science surgery put on quite a different appearance in the hands of Ambroise Pare, the first and most eminent of the ancient French sur- geons. For the credit of Italy, however, it should be recorded, that the sensible writings, published in that country prior to the time of Pard, had the greatest influence in creating a due sense of the value and importance of surgery, and in disposing men of talents and education to cultivate it as a liberal profession. Obeying the dictates of his genius. Pare either compelled authority to yield to observation, or en- deavoured to reconcile them. However, his su- perior merit soon excited the ignorant, the jealou'^, and the malignant against him; and he became the object of a bitter persecution, his discoveries being represented as a crime. Although he was the restorer, if not the inventor, of the art of tying the blood-vessels, the power of his persecutors com- pelled him to make imperfect extracts from Galen, and alter his text, in order to rob himself, in fa- vour of the ancients, of the glory which this dis- tinguished improvement deserved. Surgeon to King Henry the Second, Francis the Second, Charles the Ninth, and Henry the Third, of France, Pare practised his profession in various places, followed the French armies into Italy, and acquired such esteem, that his mere presence in a besieged town was enough to reanimate the troops employed for its defence. In the execrable night of Saint Bartholomew, his reputation saved his life. As he was of the Reformed religion, he would not have escaped the massacre, had not Charles the Ninth himself undertaken to protect him. The historians of those days (see Mem. de Sully) have preserved the remembrance of this exception, so lionourable to him who was the object of it, but which should not diminish the just horror which the memory of the most weak and cruel tyrant must ever inspire. " II n'en voulut jamais sauver aucun (says Brantome) sinon maistre Ambroise ParS, son premier chirurgien et le premier de la chre'tiennetd, et I'envoya que'rir et venir le soir dans sa chambre et garderobe, lui commandant de n'en bouger, et disait qu'il n'e'tait raisonnable qu'un qui pouvait servir a tout un petit moude lut ainsi massacrd." Ambroise Par6 was not content, like his prede- cessors, with exercising his art with reputation : he did not follow the example of the Qiiatre- Maitres of Pitard, so justly celebrated for having composed the first statutes of the College of Sur- geons at Paris, in the reign of St. Lewis, whom he had attended in his excursions to the Holy Land; and of several other surgeons, the fruits of whose experience were lost to their successors: he trans- mitted the result of his own experience to posterity, in a work that is immortal. {SecCEuvre^cTAmhrom Pari, ConseiUer ct premier CMrur ten du No,, divisCes en 28 livrcs, in folio, ed. 4to Pans, 1 S35.) His writings, so remarkable for the variety and number of fads in them, are eminently distm-