LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OP. wliere the perforation of the 03 unguis had a suc- cessful result. On the contrary, in one healthy lad, the operation, which had been done by an ex- perienced surgeon, was followed bj' the destruction of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, one of the ossa nasi, and all the bones contributing to the formation of the passage from tlie orbit into the nose. (See Lehre von den Attgenki: b. ii. p. 182.) Hence, Beer thinks, that the patient had better either submit to the inconvenience of being obliged to empty the distended sac by pres- sure several times a da}^, or let the cavity of the sac be obliterated by means calculated to excite the adhesive inflammation in it. But if the lachrj*- mal puncta and ducts, as well as the nasal duct, are obliterated, Beer conceives that there is no alternative; because, if the cavity of the sac be left, the case, which he terms hydrops sacculi lachry- malis, will ensue, whenever the fistula is closed. Of Hernia and Hydrops of the Lachrymal Sue.— The diseases, described by Beer imder these ap- pellations, are not discriminated in this country, although they are characterised by widely different symptoms, and require opposite methods of treat- ment. In the case of hernia, or simple relaxation, the lachrymal sac forms a tumour which never surpasses the size of a common horsebean, the in- teguments are of their natural colour, the tumour 18 soft and yielding to pressure, by which the con- tents of the sac are readily discharged through the puncta, or nasal duct. Hydrops grows to the size of a pigeon's egg, is purplish from the begin- ning, very hard, and incapable of being emptied by the strongest pressure. Hernia is cured by com- pression, and the application of astringents to the relaxed parts ; hydrops requires the incision of the sac. In hernia, the nasal duct is natural ; in hy- drops, it and sometimes the puncta are obstructed. StUlicidium Laehrymarum.—According to Beer the valuable treatise of Schmidt is the only work' m which the important practical distinction is drawn between stillicidium laehrymarum and epiphora; the immediate cause of the first com- plaint being some impediment to the passage of the tears from the lacus laehrymarum into the lachrj-- mal sac; while the other affection consists in a redundant and extraordinary secretion of the tears. The curable form of stillicidium, here to be noticedj arises from relaxation of the lachrymal puncta and' canals, in consequence of previous "inflammation of the parts. The puncta are widely open; but, in other respects, have qnite a natural appearance. When touched with Anel's probe, they do not contract, as in the healthy state. The tears, which from time to time fall over the cheek, are not in considerable quantity, only trickling from the inner eanthus by drops at intervals; and the nostril on the affected side is found to be rather drier than natural. Erysipelatous inflammation of the eyelids and parts over the lachrymal sac, and the purulent kinds of ophthalmia, frequently cause this sort of stilliciduim. Ihe latter cases, indeed, the more readily produce the disorder, inasmuch ns the semilunar fold of the conjunctiva is relaxed and swelled, so as to push the puncta out of their right position for the due performance of the absorption of the tears, and obstruct this function more than would be the ca.se ,f the diminished action of those orifices and the lachrymal ducts were the only thing concerned. •' 171 Beer delivers an exceedingly" favourable pro- gnosis, observing, that the complaint often disap- pears of Itself on the approach of warm dry weather and may be readily cured, by means of astringents'. Amongst other remedies specified by this authorj I need only mention a solution of the sulphate of iron, to which a small quantity of camphorated spirit, or tincture of opium, has been added. It is to be dropped out of a pen into the inner angle frequently in the course of the day, the patient lying upon his back for some time after each appli- action, so as to let the remedy have more effect upon the parts. (See Lehre von den Auaetikr. b. ii. p. 41—43.) Mr. Travers mentions a constricted state of the lachrymal puncta and canals, which is curable by the introduction of a small probe. {Synopsis, ^c, p. 366.) All modem writers agree, that the obli- terated puncta and canals can never be restored. [The following remarks of Mr. Bowman (taken from the Ophthalmic Hospital Reports, October 1857 and January 1858) contain everything new which has been introduced into this branch of surgerj'. « In the Medical and Chirurgical Trans- actions for the year 1851 is a paper on a new method of treating certain cases of epiphora, in which I showed the advantages of laying open the lachrymal puncta, on the side toward's the con- junctiva, when they had become everted and drj-, thus carrying backwards the orifice to a point where the tears could enter the canal. Of this method I shall only say that subsequent experience has confirmed my opinion and rendered this the estab- lished practice, _ Both before and since the above date, my atten- tion has been largely given to the treatment of lachrymal obstructions—on account of their fre- quency, their intractable and obstinate nature, and the exceedingly unsatisfactory results of the modes of treatment in common use. Indeed, from the pecu- liar and complex construction of the parts concerned, Irom their small size and tortuous disposition, there 18 no subject in the whole range of surgerv which has been more troublesome to our predeces- sors or that more invites the study of those who would lain leave science more advanced than thev found It. •' As if to sum up the difficulties which sur- round the cure, or even relief, of the more serious cases of chronic obstruction of the sac, there has arisen within a few years the practice of layinjr it open from top to bottom, and altogether destrovin^ It with the heated iron, a plan said to be effectual! but, if so, by the more complete closure and ob- literation of the organ diseased." (See below treatment of Mr. Desmarres.) " I would now re! ler to cases ol chronic inflammation of the sac with mucus or pus, or both at once, or at diill-rcnt times, occupjniig its cavity, either impacted there or discharging more or less freely under pressure' either forwards, into the nose by the nasnl duct or backwards, on to the eye, through one or both of the eanaliculi. The various expedients hitherto in use for re- lieving this condition, without inserting n style or tube through the skin into the sac and down the nasal duct, to be worn for a certain time, maybe said to have signally failed, though occasionally attended by jiartial or temporary benefit. Such expedients are leeches, blisters, injections of warm water or various astringents, the frequent passing of s„ch