with !i wound, and depression of some of the frag- ments into tile substance of the brain, tlie case will not invariably require the innnodiute ex- traction of the pieces of bono. In the instance alluded to, Mr. Cranipton had scarcely touched with the forceps a large fragment of bone which was buried in the brain, when the whole body was shaken by a convulsive movement, and the pa- tient (a nephew of Lord Brougham's) moaned deeply. Mr. Crampton desisted from all further attempts to extract the splinters; antiphlogistic treatment was pursued, and, at the end of twenty- two days, the small fragments of bone were re- moved as they became detached by the process of nature. (See PL Crampton in Duhiin Joimi. of Med. Science, vol. ii. p. 42.) I know of some other similar cases; yet these may be regarded as exceptioiis to the general maxim. If the depressed portion of bone be denuded by a wound of the scalp, a trial to raise it with the elevator may some- times be proper, even though urgent symptoms of p^ressure may not exist. In such a case Sir A. Cooper sanctions the application of the trephine. {Ucluras, vol. i. p. 343.) Yet, my own expe- rience and reflections would here incline me to abstain from the operation, and to follow the example of Dease, Desault, Abernethj^ and Crampton. " In Dublin (observes the latter distinguished surgeon) we conform in general with the rule of practice as originally laid down ■by Mr. Dease (who preceded Desault by many years), namely, in fractures of the skull with de- pi-essed bone, whether complicated ivith loound of the sca'p, or o/herwise, no attempt should be made to raise the depressed bone, jmless very de- cided si/mploms be present of compressed or irritated Irain." {Op. cit. p. 31.) I have seen many cases which have terminated very favourably without the trephine, though the scalp was wounded, and the bone depressed. A boy has just now (July, lli38) been discharged from Uni- versity College Hospital, who was brought to it for a wound of the forehead, and considerable de- .pression of the frontal bone, above live weeks ago. The accident was occasioned by the blow of the handle of a pump. As he was perfectly sensible, I recommended bleeding, calomel, cold lotions, and ^thcr antiphlogistic means; and the patient re- covered without any serious indisposition, the de- pression of the bone, however, still continuing. An argument urged in favour of elevating the bone by an operation, is that, though the patient may not at present labour under bad symptoms, he will become liable to them afterwards, if the bone be left depressed; a consideration upon which fjir Astley Cooper, M. Velpeau, and others, lay much stress. It is indeed a truth, that, in a certain nnnber of cases, inconveniences and danger do subsequently come on. But, with this fiict before lis, the questioiiB may yet be asked, ought we then to trephine in the first instance, without taking the chance of there being any occasion for the ope- ration ? Or, ought we to take such chance, and avoid trephining till the inconveniences of the con- tinuance of tiie depression show themselves? Thus if a pntient were to become subject to ejiileptic at- tacks, manifestly dependent upon the depression of a part of the skull, it might be time cnou'rli to trephine when the patient became thus afllicted. Professor Dudley has inserted a valuable paper On Injuries of tlic Head, iu tiie first No. of the TREPHINE. Transylvania Journal of Medicine. He reports several cases of epilepsy from injuries of the skull, which he cured by trephining; and another in- stance of this has been published by Dr. D. L. Rogers, of New York. (See Neio York Mel. and Physical Journ. vol. v.) A person miglit meet with a compound and depressed fracture of the skull, yet experience at first no symptoms re- ([uiring the trephine; but, in about a week, signs of irritated and compressed brain might come on, and the removal of a poition of the skull become indispensable. The reader will find this ob- servation well exemplified in a case recited by Mr, Crampton, where both tables of the skull, the membranes of the brain, and the brain itself, had been divided with a sabre, and the inner table had been driven in upon the brain, so as to form an acute angle with the outer table. (See Ph. Cramp- Ion, in Duhiin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. ii. p. 37.) The subject of this case, after having been dis- charged, lived irregularly and returned to the hos- pital with severe headache, paralysis of the right arm and hand, and right side of the face, followed by convulsions, stupor, &c. A small opening was made in the prominent part of the cicatrix, and two drachms of healthy pus were let out; "the pulse immediately rose to 68^^; he sat up in bed; an- siuered questions j-atiotially, ajid said he was guile free from pain." (Crampton, Op. cit. vol. cit. p. 206 ) [ once attended, with Mr. Walne, of Bloomsbury- square, and xMr. Bainbridge, of Tootin-r, a young gentleman who fractured the frontal bone and was trephined on account of urgent symptoms, which were thus relieved; but febrile symptoms and attacks like those of epilepsy afterwards came on and the case ended fatally from abscess in the substance of the brain. In a case of depressed fracture, unaccompanied at first by any urgent symptoms, suppuration may follow between the skull and dura mater, or even more deeply; still it may be questionable whether trephining would be the most likely means to pre- vent such mischief, though, nndoubtedlv, the best calculated to afford relief, if the matter were di- rectly under the skull. Here I should sav that the right treatment consists in antiphlogistic mea- sures; and that we should onlv proceed to remove bone when the symptoms indicate the couHue- ment of matter under it, or injurious effects from the continuance of a depression which, in the first mstance, perhaps, produced no unfavourabio symptoms On the question, however, whether we should trephine for a depressed fracture exposed by a wound, though not attended with urgent symptoms of presMire, I deem it fair to mention that Sir Benjamin Brodie coincides with Sir \stl ■v Cooper; and lays down the following general rule • that if the depression be exposed, in consequence of a wound ol the scalp, let the surgeon aoply the trephine, and elevate the depression; but'if there be a depression, without a wound of the scalp !„ consequence of the accident, let him not niake such a wound by an operation. (See Med Chir Tra,,s. vol. xiv. p. 403.) M. Velpeau is another high authority also m favour of not snffering a de pressed (ractiiro to continue. (See UitAn, Inmiru-s OK ) The punctured or stellated frnctnre, on account of Its being invanably accompanied with splinterinir and depressum of the inner table, Ij„i„ j,, believing a proper excoiition to the general rule of not tr.. pinning, unless urgent symptoms of pressure exist"