661 SURGERY circumstances of the case. If tliere be such an individual in existence, his scheme of wading through blood to reputation, now that the novelty of the operation has vanished, would have but little chance of success. Be it also recollected that, while the operation itself requires onlj' ordinary talents, the business of avoiding it, and of dis- criminating the exact cases in which it should be attempted, implies an extensive acquaintance with the principles of surgery, ample experience, and more than common abilities and judgment. See Amputation. Another improvement in surgery, of an humbler but not less useful description than some things to which I have already adverted, is the elastic gum seton, which, for cleanliness and convenience, is far superior to what has generally been em ployed. The needle for it, and the slips of elastic gum, may be procured of Messrs. Weiss. The invention, I believe, is one of the results of French ingenuity. The simple operation of dividing the tendo- Achillis, in order to rectify one species of the de formitj' termed club-foot, a proceeding which I have known adopted with success, has not been practised so frequently as its efBcacy would justify till a very recent period. It may be enumerated as a decidedly valuable addition to the operative department of surgery. The treatment of phlegmonous erysipelas by free incisions under certain circumstances, and on the principles explained in the article Erysipelas, I regard as a practice of infinite merit. Ample op- portunities of trying it, both in hospital and private practice, have filled me with this conviction, which I am glad now to acknowledge, as I formerly from Dr, Reese's American edition of this DlC- TioNAiiY, and other sources. I most cordially join, then, in the observation that, in a history of this kind, mention ought to be made of <' the names of Drs. White, Dudley, Davidge, Dorsey, Shippcn, Bard, Post, Mott, Gibson, Parrish, Baufon, McClellan, Stevens,Warren, Smith, Jamieson, and a host of others, who have contributed by the peu and the knife to elevate this department of the profession: this will be admitted, unless the suc- cessful ligature of the subclavian, the common iliac, the internal iliac, and that of the innominata, the amputation of the hip-joint, and upper and lower jaw, the extirpation of the parotid gland, the exscction of the clavicle, and the cure of aneurism, by tying on the distal side of the tumor, be unworthy of record. Some of these operations (continues Dr, Reese) had never been attempted in Europe, till our surgeons had led the way; and by these, and other splendid achievements in operative surgery, had demonstrated their practi- cability and success." In adverting to such merit in the surgeons of the United States, I feel all that heartfelt pleasure, which arises from the remem- brance of their close connection with my native country by the ties of blood and language, and they may rest assured of my sincere esteem; and of my earnest wish to render full justice to them on every subject. expressed disapprobation of the plan. Mr. A Copland Hutchison, to whom we are indebted for suggesting the practice, and bringing it under the consideration of the profession, seems to me thereby to have rendered a great service to the public. The excision of more or less considerable por- tions of the lower jaw, in cases of irremediable disease of it, is a new proceeding exemplifying the still-continued progress of the boldest parts of operative surgery. The practice also merits notice on another account ; it is an extension of the most effectual part of surgery to a class of miserable and hopeless cases, first executed by our transatlantic brethren in the United States, Dr. Mott having been the means of conferring this honour upon them. The removal of the superior maxillary bone may also be specified as another operation, the propriety of which, under certain circumstances, is now fully established. In promoting the intro- duction of this bold measure into practice, perhaps M. Gensoul, of Lyons, must be regarded as the leader; although I believe that Mr. Lizars was very early in the field; and it is but justice to add, that my colleague Mr. Listen may claim the merit of having brought the requisite operative proceed- ings to the greatest perfection. I regret, that, in the last edition, due justice was not done to the meritorious surgeons of the United States of America. This happened, however, not from any want of desire on my part to pay the tribute of honour, where it was deserved; but from my not being then in possession of the valuable information, respecting the progress of surgery in the United States, which I _have since obtained PKOGEESS OP SURGERY. [I am unwilling to attempt the complete re- modelling of each paragraph, which would be ne- cessary if, to each reference to the surgical opinions and practice of his time by Cooper, I should make the modifications and additions necessary to bring this article into accord with the prevalent opinions now, and to register the progress of the last thirty years. It would destroy the cachet of the author's style and habit of thought. I shall add only, therefore, a very brief resume of some of the leading elements of progress Ln surgery since Cooper wrote. They have been accomplished chiefly in sur- gical PATHOLOGY; in the methods op explo- ration; in operative surgery; and in the TRE.A.TMENT OP WOUNDS. SURGICAL ANATOMY, of which the object is to teach the surgeon to direct with certainty his knife amidst the deepest parts, and to interpret pathological peculiarities by the relation of the parts, has been greatly advanced in this country by the labours of Morton, Qiiain, Maclise, Hilton, and Prescott Hewett ; and in France by Blandin, Bourgey, Paulet, and Sarra- zin. To the aid of the surgeon expcnmcnkil'phiisio- logy, which was cultivated with so much genius and enthusiasm by Hunter, brings daily tribute. Syme, Paget, Simon, Wharton Jones,, Lister, Larrey, Richardson, Henry Lee, especially in this country; Flourens, Bernard, Sediltot, Briicko, Brown-Sequard, Langenbeck, and others on the continent, and Hammond in America, have added to our knowledge of subjects, such as the laws of growth; the part played by the periosteum in the renewal of bone; the nature of the inflammatory change; the pathological pliysiology of tlie blood and the arteries; the course and origin of purulent infection; the relation of cataract to diabetes. The microscope, in creating the science of Mslology,\y,\s given a new impulse to surgery. Its revelations cannot shake our convictions, derived from the