TREPHINE. ■ Jis rendering the suppression of the hffiniorrlinge sauU, t. iv. p. 105.) :Morand fo lowed the saw 778 bone. However, the teeth of a proper instrument, in good order, will not be impeded by the slender periosteum ; and scraping this membrane away from parts of the skull, which are not to be removed, may conduce to exfoliations. Sometimes, the bleeding from branches of the temporal, or occipital arter}', is so copious, that the bone cannot be conveniently perforated until the hajmorrhage is suppressed. If it be prudent to wait a little, and the case (as it generally does) should be likely to be benefited by the evacuation of blood, it is as well to let the bleeding continue for a certain time. The surgeon may then just direct an assistant to put the end of one of his fin- gers on the mouth of the vessel, and proceed in the operation. In some cases, the bleeding might be 60 troublesome, that it would be better to tie the artery. All parts of the cranium do not admit of being trephined with equal convenience and safety. It has usually been set down by surgical autl ors, that the trephine cannot be applied below the transverse ridge of the os occipitis. There are some cases, however, which prove that such an operation is practicable, and that we ought not, in urgent circumstances, to be afraid of dividing the trapezius and complexus muscles, in order to be enabled to apply the trepliine to the bone. (See A. C. HukMsori's Case in Med. Chir. IVans. vol. ii. p. 104, &c.) Additional instances of similar practice are quoted by M. Velpeau. [De VOpir. dii Tri'pan, p. 139.) Many writers forbid the application of the tre- phine to the frontnl sinuses, in consequence of the indeterminate depth of these cavities, and the ap- prehension of incurable fistulae. However, Larrey deviated from this precept in several instances ; and h'S practice confirms the statement of Sir Charles Bell, that, by opening the frontal sinus with a large trephine, and then using a small one, the internal parietes of this cavity may be tre- phined with perfect safety, and without injuring the dura mater with the saw. (See Larrey, Man. de Chirurgie militaire, t. ii. p. 136-130, t. iv.) Writers also caution us not to apply the tre- phine to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, on account of the situation of tlie lateral sinus under it; nor to its anterior inferior angle, in consequence of the middle artery of the dura mater lying under it, generally in a groove of the bone, but occasionally in a canal in its very substance. In the latter circumstance, this portion of the pa- rietal bone could not possibly be taken auay, without wounding the vessel. However, notwith- standing this advice, which has been transmitted from generation to generation, I much question the soundness of the doctrine. We undoubtedly ought to avoid trephining this part of the cranium, when we can prudently do so. But the causes demanding this operation are always so urgent, that the patieni's sole chance of existence depends on their quick removal. Hence were there pres- sure on the brain, either from a depressed portion of bone, from blood, or matter, and such pressure could not be removed without trephining the an- terior inferior angle of the parietal bone, what operator would be afraid of doing so ? Besides the peril, htemorrhage has been greatly exagge- rated ; lor, the lodgment of the artery in a bony furrow, or canal, which authors have pointed out difficult, has no such effect, a little plug of lint or a bit of a small bougie pushed into the orifice of the vessel, so situated, will mostly stop the bleeding with ease. The foregoing suggestion was made in the early editions of my works, and I now see the safety i>( the practice has been confirmed. " I have applii il the trepan (says Larrey) over the track of the spheno-spinous artery, at tlic inferior anterior anj;lij of the parietal bone. The artery was divided ; but I stopped-the liseraorrhage almost immediately, by applying an iron probe red hot. {Man. de Chir. mi/itaii-e, t. ii, p. 138.) Dr. Dorsey, of the United States, once succeeded in tying this vessel. Formerly, surgeons were cautioned not to tre- phine on the temple, because the temporal muscle and middle meningeal artery would thereby bo injured. Had there been sufficient reason for tli:3 advice, as M. Velpeau observes, it would have been unfirtunate, inasmuch as the temporal region is precisely one of those in which the trepanning or trephining is most frequently useful. Luckily (he adds) the prohibition has scarcely ever been attended to ; and he refers to various works in proof of this statement. {Velpeau, de VOi^tr. dii Trepan, p. 1 34.) In many persons, the bleed- ing from the n^iddle artery of the dura mater is 1 ut trivial, and, when it is more copious, it may easiiy be stopped. Thus, in addition to cases alre:idy mentioned in proof of this observation, I may state, that Beclard and M. P. Dubois experienced no difficulty in checking the hairaorrhage. [Arch, ghi. de Med. t. iii. p. 377.) The occipital protuberance, by reason of its thickness and inequalities, would render the safe application of the trephine difficult. The conflux of the sinuses at that point would also be another objection. Yet, if the case were urgent, M. Vel- peau sees no insurmountable obstacle to trephin- ing on the occipital protuberance ; and he cites a case, in which Bourrienne expresses regret, that au extravasation of blood, under the occipital protu- berance, had not been recognised during the pa- tient's life, as it might have been discharged by trepanning. [Journ. de Deliorne, t. iii. p. 2-10.) It seems to me that, in an urgent case, a surgeoa would, at all events, be warranted in trephining over one or both the fossre for the posterior lohes of the brain, or even the manner adopted by Mr. A. C. Hutchison below the transverse ridge of the occiput. Writers, until lately, prohibited us from trephin- ing over any of the sutures, and especially over the sagittal suture, beneath which the longitudinal sinus is situated. The fear of the dura nialM being injured and of this vessel being woundeil was the reason for the advice. With regard to the sutures in general, the trephine may be applied to them if circumstances call for it, as well as to any other part; and as for the sagitt.al suture, many facts confirm the propriety of not being de- terred even by it, though situated immediately over the longitudinal sinus. It is to be remem- bered, also, that the dura mater, in cases of cxtm- vasated blood and pus, beneath the crannnn, i detached by the intervention of such fluids Iroi the inner table. j Amatus Lusitanus trepanned on the suture'"", on the occipital bone {PorUd, t. i. p. 500); n" Thiriot on tlie squamous suture. {Journ. Jo u