INFLAMMATION. J)e Secretione (Liigd. Bat., 1735), he describes the process of secretion as consisting in the separation of the components of mixed liquids by pores and vessels of different shapes and sizes ; and remarks that in health blood-globules are only found in blood-vessels, whereas in disease they may intrude into seriferous or lymphatic vessels. He sttys (Be Moiti Vitali, Amstelodami, 1737) that if a part irritated be observed, there will be found greater heat and throbbing than in the rest of the body. But this cannot arise from mechani- cal laws, but from an increase of vital motion in the stimulated part. Any arteries may have their vital movement increased; so as even to cause their emissaries to exude blood as in the menses, or from a wound; and throbbing precedes both the menses and bleeding from a wound. Hence the lymphatic vessels going otY from any artery may have the red globules thrust into them in inflammation. A part may be inflamed by a stimulus, without any precedent obstruction; nay the obstruction, if the red globules do not pass in the small seriferous vessels, is an effect of the increased vital motion of the arteries. Venesection does good in inflam- mation, not by withdrawing an itijlammaiionis maieries, but by lessening all vital motion, and particularly that of the part from whence it is drawn ; for preternaturally rapid vital motion is the cause of inflammation. Neither does venesec- tion act by educing thick and inflamed blood from the inflamed part, but it lessens the mass of the blood, and hence lessens that increased vital motion, whereby all the mass of the blood is ren- dered thicker. If it be alleged that the blood is not thickened in all acute diseases, this may be because the inflammation hath not lasted long enough to thicken it, or because the case is not itiflimmalion but erysipelas, which hath many signs common with inflammation, but yet doth not cause thickeninr; of the blood. He also observes in his Compendium Medicince, 17.31, that a thickened or condensed state of the blood, such as may be induced by its more powerful circulation, or by the evacuation of i s lighter parts, or bj* want of drink, may cause it to pass with greater difficulty through the e.xtreme parts of the arteries, and su may distend them and cause them to oscillate more strongly and more fre- quently. (Tractalus xtvii. de Jnjkimmaliune, p. 2'J 0.) In the course of a short time theory advances to contemplate inflammation as caused, not by the blood being driven into vessels too small for it, but by "actions," or conditions of the vessels through which the blood passes. Amongst those who pro- pounded this view was (^.E.Stahl {l>. 1660. rf.l734), who repudiated the doctrine of " vital spirits," and boldly assumed that the immortal soul is the chief agent in all the operations of the animal body, in health and disease. In fact, he attri- butes very much the same functions to the soul tnat Macartney does to the " organic conscious- ness. Tlie description given of inflammation in his ' Dogmatico-systematic Medicine : Theoretic part: Section II.—Pathology," published at Halle in 1707 (pp. 246-265), still contains much of Galen's. Stahl calls the blood the principal subject matter of inflammation, and says that a stasis or total stoppage of the blond is the essential cause of it. Kstaynatio may produce heat and burning, but a complete ttiisis is required before inflammation can exist. ' I do not, however, by any means agree," he says, 59 (p. 255) " with the opinion that the swelling of in- flammation consists simply of impacted, some- times grumous, blood : I rather consider it due to the active, constant, and rapid influx and pro- gress of good and pure blood. The vivid redness of inflammation cannot be caused by any but bright blood." The heat is attributed (p. 257) to the friction of the particles of the blood against the vessels and against coagulated particles which are formed in them. The contraction of the orifices which the blood has to pass produces part of this fric- tion, and prevents equable and free distribution of the blood. Pus is corrupted and stagnant blood in the focus of inflammation, washed by the afflux and reflux of good pure blood till nothing but earthy par- ticles are left. The tonic contraction of the porous parts intermediate between the arteries and veins is a great agent in the circulation of the blood in health and in disease. It is motion of the blood, not composition of humours, which is concerned in disease. (Diss, de Mechanismo motussanguinis, Haloe, 1710.) Frederic Hoffmann (4. 1660, d. 1742), the contemporary of Stahl at Halle, held opinions in some respects entirely opposed to him. In his work on " Rational Systematic Medicine" (Op. vol. iii. ch. 4) he states that "spasm" is the agent which brings about diseased states of all kinds ; but agrees with him in stating that pathology should be grounded on the defects of the " niicrocosmic motions" of the solids of the body ; not on affections of the fluids. He grounds this opinion chiefly on the " nerveo-mus- cular" structure of the alimentary canal, the arteries, and ducts of all kinds, and on the fact that no pain, inflammation, fever, or spasms can occur without implicating some of these parts. He says also that the action of the most valu- able medicines takes place not on the fluids of the body, but in changing and moderating the action of the solid and nervous parts. Hoffmann is quoted with marked approval by Cullen, of whose doctrine of spasm he is the parent. Hoffmann repudiates Stahl's doctrine of the agency of the im- mortal soul, and derides the ordinary fictions about " Nature." If Stahl's doctrine of the agency of the soul were true, it would be an infallible guide; every appetite should be indulged, and every morbid process promoted. But the efforts of nature are, according to Hoffmann, often mis- chievous, and, still more often, insuflicient. Fevers are produced by whatever causes spasm of the periphery (as cold) and so interferes with the cir- culation and sends the blood back to the heart. Inflammation consists in a stasis of blood in the capillaries of some p.art, into which it is driven by spasm of arteries, which interferes with its equal circulation. When once stasis has occurred, cnoious torrents of blood are directed to the part. (Opera Omnia, Genevse, 1740, torn. i. p. 302, de genea- loyia moihorum.) We may make a classification of the doctrines heretofore set forth, into those which lake (1) the humours, or (2) the vital spirits, or (3) the chemical quality, or (4) the mechanical quality of the blood, or (5) the passively obstructed, or (6) the actively contractile state of the blood-ve'ssels as tlie cause and seat of inflammation. Meanwhile the doctrine of irritation gradually grew into