500 PYZEMIA. presented numerous ecchj-motic spots and blood- clots. The injection of from one to three grammes of putrid blood into the veins of a dog was followed by symptoms similar to the above, but the dis- order was of a much more serious character. As before, a dog would recover alter the injection of tlie smaller quantity, but death generally took place after injection of three grammes. A simi- larly ecchymosed, bloody, and dark-red spotting, and congestion of the inuco-entcric tract was pre- sent, particularly about the vicinity of the stomach, duodenum, and rectum. The injection of the discharge from the nares of a glandered horse into the veins of a dog, even where the small quantity of half a graumie was used; gave rise to some of the phenomena observed in the above experiments, with numerous un- healthy abscesses in the skin, areolar tissue, and l)etween the muscles. After death, the clots in the lungs were both more numerous and better marked than in the cases where pus was injected. These clots were ofttimes softened in their centres and converted into purulent-looking cavities. From these experiments it appears that the action of decomposition commenced in one portion of the blood, may be propagated to any part, or to the whole system, and unless the action were checked, this would be the usual result. The blood is in a peculiar manner open to the influence of portions of liquefied fibrin or decomposing blood, after every lesion either from accident or disease. The evolution of ammonia is one of the first pro- ducts of incipient decomposition. This also is said to be one of the essential conditions of coagulation of the blood. The same influence, therefore, that tends to set up a diseased action in the blood, would appear at the same time to have a tendency to limit the disease by producing coagulation of that fluid. It is true that the coagula thus formed may, in their turn, undergo disintegration or de- composition, and portions of the clot may be carried to and arrested in other vessels, or the products of its decomposition may be the means of infecting other parts. But, in other instances, the coagula remain firm, and prevent the extension of disease to the remainder of the bl.)od, or along the blood- vessels. The union of separated parts by a thin laj'er of blood, indicates what H\niter called the "inten- tion" as much when such a union is temp^irary only as when it is permanent; and so the object of the coagulation of the blood in the veins, in cases .... where the process of decomposition is commenced, appears evident, although the remedial effect is riot always attained. When, through the introduction of a septic agent, the stagnant blood begins to decompose, and the action is not limited by its coagulation, the wh(de of the constituents of the blood are together involved in the changes which take place. An interval, however, even in the most strongly- marked cases of natural disease, usually elapses between the development of the infecting cause, and the manifestation of constitutional symptoms. This is especially the case where diseased secre- tions enter the circulation through the nutritious vessels of bone. The cancello'is structure of bone may be com- pared to the cellular tissue of soft parts. When inllamud, its interstices beaome filled up by the eflfused products, and an hDscpss may be as accu- rately circumscribed in the hard as in the soft structures of the body. In a healthy conistitution, the adhesive inflammation will, in this way,always precede the suppurative; but where the inflamma- tion is not circumscribed by adhesion, the secretions may permeate from cell to cell in non-adhering parts. In soft structures, a remedy is at hand for allo'wiiig the escape of matter by a free division of the parts, but in bone, where the same process tiikes place, the hard unyielding sides offer an effectual obstruction to the escape of any effused fluid. An unhealthy inflammatinn is propagated along the endosteal membrane; the cells of the bone may then become infiltrated with inflammatory pro- ducts, the sinuses and small veins become closed with coagula, and, if thes'; coagula break up, there is nothing to prevent the diseased secretions and pieces of decomposing fibrin from finding their way into the general circulation. The morbid matter is detained for a certain time, during which the process of decomposition is established. The first infected portions of blood, together with the morbid matters which they contain, then pass on to infi;ct the blood in ad- jacent vessels. The dissolved and putrifying fibrin from these, proceed further towards the centre of the circulation; in its course it will loosely coagulate fresh portions of blood, and then determine their decomposition. Every additional quantity of blood that is infected will add to the amount of putrid fluid in the vessels, and thus the disease will propagate itself, quite independent of the original source whence the morbid matter was derived. Each portion of blood which is attacked loses its vitality, passes into a state of decomposi- tion, and becomes itself the means of infecting other portions. The contaminated blood may then be found in the vessels in every stage of decompo- sition, or it may have passed out of the vessels in which these changes have taken place, having first stained them of a deep livid colour. Long tracks of purple veins will occasionally be found, some being blocked up with viscid blood in various stages of putrescence, and some having discharged their contents, and being comp;iratively empty. The frequency with which symptoms of pyajmia follow injuries to, or operations upim, bone is well known. The organisation of bone, and the com- parative slowness with which remedial actions are carried on in it, render it peculiarly liable to in- terruptions in the process of repair, especially when, as not unfrequently happens, the vitality of some portions of bone with their peri and endos- teal membranes has been threatened. The oft'ensive smell of the bone, as well as the appearance of its cancellous structure infiltrated with unhealthy lymph and puriform matter, will frequently show, in such cases, that the processes above named have not followed their natural course. The general result of putrid fluids in the system, whether introduced directly into the circulation, or injected into a serous cavity is, to produce a remarkable all'ection, characterised by a peculiar congestion of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. The vitiated material or aumi.il poison is determined to the muco-enteric tract, much in the same way that a mineral poison is when inserted through a wound. The evacuations that accompany this condition are evidently an effort of nature to relieve the system from the