466 POLYPUS. °ught always to be, if possible; but, when circum- stances oblige the surgeon to take hold of any other more accessible portion of the tumor, the rule of slowly and gradually twisting oif the poly- pus, instead of using a sudden jerk, is what I con- sider the most likely method of extracting the tumor in a mass. As soon as the polypus has given waj', the surgeon is to examine whether any part remains behind. When the polypus is very narrow at the place where it has been broken, and the patient can breathe through the nose freely, there is rea- son to presume that the polypus has given way at its root, and that none continues behind. The finger, if it can be introduced, procures the most certain information ; or the probe, when the finger, for want of room, cannot be employed. When a piece of the root is left, it is best to introduce the forceps again, under ,the guidance of the fin- ger, or probe, and thus, if possible, pinch and twist off the remnant of the disease. Some hffimorihage always follows the opera tion ; and by many writers it is represented as perilous. But this is not the case in com- mon gelatinous polypi, which are not furnished with large vessels, and are the instances in which the operation is most proper. Cases are met with, however, in which the bleeding is really serious ; and therefore the surgeon should take care to furnish himself, before the operation, with the most effectual means for its suppression. The risk of profuse hsemorrhage may always be lessened by slowly twisting the polypus at its root, in pre- ference to pulling it directly out. After the polypus has given way at its root, if the bleeding should still be profuse, ice-cold water or strong brandy may be sucked or injected into the nose These applications mostly prove effectual. If the hemorrhage should still prevail, it may usually be checked in the following manner. Twist a dossil of lint round the extremity of a probe ; wet it completely through, with a strong solution ot the sulphate of zinc ; introduce it into the nostril, and press it against the part whence the blood issues. When this method fails, the nostril may be plugged in the following way:—A piece of catgut or wire may be introduced into the nostril, and, by means of a pair of forceps, be brought out of the mouth, or what is still better, a ligature may be attached to the end of a bougie and passed by means of this instrument, through the nostril, to the back of the pharynx, where it is at once seen, and, with a pair of forceps, brought out ot the mouth. A roll of lint is then to be attached to it, and drawn through the mouth into the nose; thus the posterior aperture of the nose may be stopped up. Then the nostril is to be filled with lint. (See Nose.) Sometimes, the greatest part of the polj'pus ex- tends backward, hanging down behind the soft palate towards the pharynx. If there should be but little of the polypus visible in the nostril, its extraction must be performed backward, in the throat. This is usually done with a pair of curved polypus-forceps, which is to be introduced through the mouth, in order to seize and tear off the tu- mor as high as possible above the soft palate. As, by this mode, the polypus is not twisted, but pulled away, the htemorrhage is generally copious. If a fragment of the tumor should remain behind, it may now be extracted through the nose. Frequently the polypus grows again. Some of the root remaining behind may often be a cause of the relapse. But, in the operation itself, if the root can be grasped with the forceps, it may be torn away with a sudden jerk, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper, for the express purpose of bringing away with the root the portion of Schneiderian membrane, and even a scale of bone from which the tumor originates, so as to prevent its growing again. The recurrence of the disease, however, may occasionally arise from other causes. The polypus, observed subsequently to the opera- tion, is frequently not a new substance, but only a part of the original tumor. Sometimes a smaller and a larger polypus are found in the nose at the same time. The larger one is extracted, while the other remains undiscovered ; and, when it has increased in magnitude, it is apt to be mistaken for a reproduction of the one previously extirpated. Ligature.—The plan is to tie the root of the tumor, by which means the polypus is thrown into the state of sphacelus, and at length becomes detached. Many instruments have been invented for this purpose, but Levret's double canula, or the ligature-encircling apparatus of Graefe, seem to be the best. Through Levret's double canula a silver wire is to be introduced, so as to form a noose at the upper end of the instrument, propor- tioned in size to the anterior part of the tumor, situated in the nostril. The two ends of the wire are to hang out of the two lower apertures of the double canula; and one of them is to be fastened to a small ring on its own side of the instrument. The other is to remain loose. The wire must be made of the purest silver, and ought to be as flexi- ble as possible, that it may not readily break. It must, also, not be too thin, lest it cut through the root of the polypus. The canula is to be some- what less than five inches long. By the assistance of this canula, the noose is to be introduced into the nose, and put round the polypus. But, as the canula, which is usually constructed of silver, is straight and inflexible, while the inner surface of the nostril is pieternaturally arched, especially when much distended by the polypus, its introduc- tion must be attended with considerable difficulty. In fact, it can seldom be introduced as deeply as the root of the polypus. After the noose has been introduced as deeply as possible, the loose extremity of the wire is to be drawn out of the lower aperture of the canula, and rolled round the ring on that side of the instru- ment, or tightened by means of the small windlass on Graefe's apparatus. Thus the root of the po- lypus is constricted. As the noose gradually makes a furrow, where it surrounds the polypus, it grows slack after a short time, and no longer con- stricts the tumor. The wire, therefore, is to be tightened daily. Tlie more tense it is kept, the sooner the separation of the polypus is brouglit about. , When the tumor has begun to slougli, ana a foetid discharge has commenced, a solution of alum, or of chloride of lime, or soda, should be repeatedly injected into the nostril, for the sake of and immediately the dead mass is sufhciently loose, it should be removed. j;ffl„„r The ligature is attended with so many d.fficul- ties, that: in tl>e >»ajo"'y '^''^ °^ ceps is infinitely preferable. Hemorrhage is the only inconvenience, for which extraction is abau-