(517 SPINE, CURVATURES OF. tion to the left side, occurs in tlie proportion of seven to one, iiccordiiig to Bouvier.* When tiiese curves <are only of moderate extent, and about et/uai to each other in lent/lh, so as to balance each otiier, as it were, and preserve the equilibrium of the body, veiy Utile external deformity exists— niiicli less than in either of the single curves above described. The level of the shoulders is not dis- turbed, and therefore the girls do not sit in the same awkward way as in the other forms of curva- ture, when one shoulder is liigher than the other and the body twisted, Such curvatures are fre- quently unaccompanied by pain or other symptoms, and therefore allowed to become comparatively severe before the surgeon is consulted. The lateral derialion of tlie apices of the spinous processes is often very slight, even when the curva- ture, as affecting the bodies of the vertebrse, is rather severe, and affords no safe indication of the extent of the mischief. But the natural posterior projection of the spinous processes in the dorsal region is either diminished or lost, so that a flatten- ing ex sts instead of a convexity; and in some more severe cases, the spinous processes are depressed in tile middle dorsal region, so that the natural cur- vature is to some extent reversed. This may be regarded as one of the worst features such a case can present. T/ie scapula will be found unequally distant from the spinous processes in these cases, when of mode- rate severity, the angle of the right scapula being further removed than the left—i. e. assuming the convexity of the dorsal curve to present to the right side, which it does in a very large majority of cases, and in some instances the angle of the right sca- pula will also be somewhat raised above the level of that of the opposite bone, but this is not so marked as in the other forms of curvature. A posterior projection of the scapula, and a pos- terior projection of the angles of the ribs upon which, indeed, tlie pmjection u^ tlie scapula essentially depends, are constantly present, on the convexity of the curve, in these cases in a degree propor- tionate to the extent of the internal curvature, or deviation of the bodies of tlie vertebraj. A depression or sinking-in of the angles of the ribs in the concavity of the curve also constantly exists to an extent corresponding to the posterior projec- tion of tlie angles of the ribs on the side of the convexity; and, as a consequence of this depression of the ribs, the angle of the left scapula often ap- pears more conspicuous than natural, though not really projecting further backwards. A posterior projictioM of the angles of the ribs in the dorsal region, on the convexity of the curve, and of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebiee on the convexity of the lumbar curve, is in each region a m ire certain means of diagnosing the extent of the internal curvature or deviation of the apices of the spinous processes upon which it is customary for surgeons to rely. The form of the chest may not be perceptibly al- tered in these cases, when slight, but generally the left breast is rallier more prominent than (he right, and its aspect towards the left side rather than directly forwards. Sometimes it happens that the increased prominence of the left breast is the first thing noticed either by the girl or her mother, and on this account the surgeon may bo consulted, in • Diclionnaire de Mildccine et de Chirurgic Pra- tiques,t. iv. a I'aris, 18JG. Art. Vbrtkurale. the same way that the prominence of the right hip is sometimes the cause of the curvature of the spine in the lumbar region being brought under the no- tice of the surgeon. The ea'ternal appearances in the lumbar region are not generally very conspicuous, in cases of mode- rate severity, but tiiere is some prominence of tlie right hip, i.e. corresponding to the concavity of the curve, and a sinking-in of tlie right loin in which the transverse processes of the vertebrte are felt at a greater depth than natural. There is also aposlerior prominence of the spinal muscles on the left side (that of the convexity of the curve) and a general ful- ness of the left side of the loin, and to some extent of the lower ribs on this side. The spinal muscles are rendered prominent on the convexity of the curve chiefly by the posterior projection of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae result- ing from the movement of horizontal rotation of the vei'tebrre, which always takes place in such curva- tures; the muscles are thus pushed out by the de- viation of the bones, and, as the muscles on the convexity of the curve are also thrown into action to resist increase of the curvature, their prominence is increased by their active tension. Now, although all these anatomical deviations may exist in the dorsal and lumbar regions in a marked degree, and clearly indicate the extent and nature of the deviation as affecting chiefly the bodies of the vertebra3, i.e. the internal curvature, yet the general effect as regards the external form and figure is frequently slight and easily con- cealed, even when the spinal curvature is rather severe; and in this condition (the curves being about equal to each other as above described), when the general health remains good, no further in- crease of the deformity may take place; spon- taneous arrest may be said to occur, and the affec- tion remain in statu quo through a long life; but of this there is no certainty: a liability to increase remains and may occur at any period of life, from failure of the general health, or from local causes, such as occupation, acquired habit of certain posi- tions, &c. When increase of the curvature occurs, then the curves no longer remain of equal size, and failing to counterbalance each other the equilibrium of the body is disturbed; the dorsal curvature generally increases to a much greater extent than the lumbar curve, and all the deviations above described be- come exaggerated—the scapula and the angles of the ribs on the right side project more posteriorly, and the right shoulder becomes disprop rtionately raised, and the left depressed to a correspondiiiT extent. The lateral deviation of the spinous pro'^ cesses becomes more distinct, and often very con- siderable; but to this rule there are some remark- able exceptions. The form of the chest becomes altered, and in severe cases is much deformed; the ribs on the right side become flattened in their convexity, and bent upon themselves a little in front of their angles, varying very much as to their degree of separation and their horizontal or oblique direction; the ribs on the left side become de- pressed in a very oblique direction downwards, so that the left side of the chest falls in, and a con- siderable hollow is formed; in tlic left pectoral i-egion the ribs project anteriorly, and the pro ininence of the left breast is increased to a corre- sponding extent. The-external deformity, there- tore, becomes very cousiderable in such cases. The