TALIPES, foot, are all in a liealtlij' condition, and by their action tend to overcome the slight contraction of the flexors. If the balance of muscular action be not thus restored before the period of walking, the weight of the body still further assists the action of the extensor muscles by pressing up the heel, and Iveeping the foot at a right-angle with the leg. _ The favourable action of the weight of the body in restoring this deformity of the foot is worthy of remark, especially when contrasted with the un- favourable influence which it exerts in talipes varus, the severity of which it aggravates to a severe degree. Treatment.—Very little treatment is re- quired in the ordinary cases of congenital talipes calcaneus. Frequent manipulations and passive exercise—i. a. extending the foot, and riibbin" over the anterior muscles of the leg, which may be best conducted by the nurse or mother—will be all that is necessary in ordinary cases Witli this should be combined the use of a softly- padded splint applied in front of the leg and foot. A splmt made of block-tin, which can be gradu- ally straightened as the foot improves, is the best that can be employed. In the exceptional cases, however, of greater severity, in which the anterior muscles are much contracted, and the tendons tense and prominent over the ankle-joint, tenotomy should be adopted as a means of hastening the cure, and thus rendering it more certain and per- fect at an earlier period of life—a principle which we must recognise in the treatment of all congenital deformities, with a view to the ultimate perfection ot tne hmb, and development of the muscular structures. The tendons wMcli require to he divided, in the severe cases above adverted to, are the tibialis an- ticus, extensor proprius pollicis, extensor longus digitorum, and peroneus tertius. The division of all these tendons may be easily effected through a tingle puncture made close to the inner borders of the extensor longus digitorum tendons, as they pass over the ankle-joint, where they will be found tense and prominent. The smallest sharp- pointed tenotomyknife may be passed first outwards beneath the extensor and peroneus tertius tendons, which may be divided towards the shin, as we divide all tendons; and then being withdrawn and reintroduced, the knife may be passed inwards beneath the extensor pollicis and anterior tibial tendons, which may be divided in the same way. If care be taken to keep the point of the knife close to the tendons to be divided, there will be no fear of wounding the anterior tibial artery. A small pledget of lint should be immediately ap- plied, and retained in position by a strip of plaister and the foot bandaged to a bent tin splint in front of the ankle-joint. The Mechanical Treatment need only consist in the continued use of a well-padded metal splint, which, after the tliiid day, may be gradually straightened, till the complete extension of the foot J8 obtained. This should be done very slowly at first; and should not be accomplished in less than three weeks, in order to insure the formation of a direct and well-formed connecting bond of new material, between the divided extremities of the tendons. _ The Aptbr-tukatment will consist merely in the continued use of the physiological means VIZ. : manipulations and passive motion, upon vvhicli 691 we so much rely during the treatment of this de- formity. It will very rarely be necessary to employ any mechanical support, or retentive ap- paratus ; but in some cases, after operation, a light steel support may be attached to the foot in walking. Relapsed Cases.—There is no tendency to relapse in cases of congenital talipes calcaneus after treatment. I have never met with any case in which the deformity has even partially returned. NON-CONGENITAL TALIPES CALCANEUS. The non-congenital form of talipes calcaneus differs very essentially from the congenital form of this distortion. In non-congenital calcaneus, the anatomical conditions are more complicated; in the great majority of cases this aflfection is of paralytic origin, and therefore the prognosis is essentiallvr unfavourable, and the treatment only palliative, though the foot may be improved in form and usefulness. Altogether, the non-congenital cases of calcaneus are as unsatisfactory as the congenital cases are satisfactory in their results. External Appearance.-Assuming the ease to be one of the ordinary kind, i.e. depending either upon paralysis of the muscles of the leg, the ex- ternal characters are—1st, depression of the tuber- osity of the OS calcis, which, in a severe case, when the patient is m the erect position, is the only part of the foot which comes in contact with the ground ; 2nd, the anterior portion of the foot is not flexed and drawn upwards so as to touch the anterior surface of the leg, as in cases of congenital calcaneus; but in an early stage is slightly raised and more or less everted. At a later period the anterior portion of the foot becomes depressed, or falls down from the tarsal joint; so that the foot presents the appearance of being bent upon itself in the direction of its length, and the sole of the foot becomes deeply arched. In such cases the eg IS always much wasted, in consequence of the ong-standing paralysis of which the deformity is the result; and the tendo-Achillis, instead of beinff tense and prominent, as it generally is in other deformities of the foot, can scarcely be felt Morbid Anatomy.—In non-congenital calca- neus the bones undergo very little alteration in form, but their deviations in position are very con siderable. In a severe case, the os calcis becomes quite vertical in position, and the astragalus very obl,que-.so much so, indeed, that the greater part of the rochlea of the astragalus is separated from the ankle-joint, and projects posteriorly, a con- dition which I have witnessed on dissection of one of these cases. As a necessary consequence of this obliquity of the astragalus, the articular sur- face of the tibia rests partly on the anterior portion of the trochlea, and partly upon the neck of the castragalus. The next important deviation in the relative position of the bones takes place in consequence of the foot becoming bent upon itself from the trans verse tarsal joint, which in this deformity becomes almost as important a centre of motion as the ankle-joint. 'J'he anterior portion of the foot including all the bones in front of the transverse' tarsal joint, is, in a severe case, depressed or bent downwards, so as to approximate more or less towards the os calcis in its vertical position and produce an abruptly arched and shortened con- dition of the foot. Y Y 2