636 SUPPURATION. lias been detectea in veins which return the blood from parts in which pus has been collected; as well as in lymphatics, originating in textures in the state of suppuration. In phlebitis, its presence in the veins, and its mixture with the circulating blood, are believed to be the principal causes of the frequently fatal termination of this dangerous af- fection. Theory of Suppuration. The dissolution of the living solids of an animal tody into pus, as an essential part of the process of suppuration, and the power of this fluid to con- tinue the dissolution, are opinions which are no longer entertained; and the phrase pus corro- des" is at present rarely heard. If these notions were true, no sore, which discharges matter, could be exempted from a continual dissolution. Such ideas probably arose from the circumstance of an abscess being a hollow cavity in the solids, and from the supposition, that the whole of the original substance of that cavity was now the matter, which was found in it. This was a natural way of accounting for the formation of pus by one en- tirely ignorant of the circulation, the powers of the arteries, and what takes place in an abscess after it is opened. The knowledge of these three subjects, abstracted from the knowledge of the abscess previously to its being opened, Mr. Hunter thinks, should have led surgeons to account for the formation of pus from the blood by the powers of the arteries alone. According to the above erro iieous principle, abscesses would continue to in- crease after being opened as fast as before. Upon the principle of the solids being dissolved into pus, was founded the practice of bringing all indurated parts to suppuration, if possible, and not making an early opening. This was done for the purpose of giving time for the solids to melt down into pus; but it was apparently forgotten that ab- scesses formed matter after they were opened and, therefore, the parts stood the same chance of dissolution into pus as before. Blinded with^ th idea that the solids entered into the composition of pus, the partizans of this doctrine could never see pus flowing from any internal canal, as from the uretlira, in gonorrhcea, without supposing the existence of an ulcer in the passage. Such senti- ments might be forgiven while it was not known that these surfaces could, and generally did, form pus, without a breach in the solids; but, the con- tinuance of this way of thinking now, Mr. Hunter pronounces to be, not mere ignorance, but stu pidity. The formation of pints of matter in the cavities of the chest and abdomen, without any breach in the solids, could not have been over looked by the most zealous advocates for the doc- trine of dissolution. The theory of suppuration now most extensively adopted, is, that pus is separated from the blood by the Bccreting power of the vessels of the inflamed part, which acquire a new mode of action. That pus is formed in the vessels from which it exudes, by an action of these vessels analogous to secretion (according to Professor John Thomson), was first distinctly suggested by Dr. Simpson of St. Andrew's, in his " Disserl<ilw7tcs do lie il/e- dica" published in the year 1722. An opinion similar to that of Dr. Simpson's, suggested itself aliout the year 1756, to De Haen, from the con- sideration of wliat takes place in some cases of phthisis pulmonalis. This author observed, thai pus was often expectorated, for a great length of time, by patients affected willi phthisis, in whom, after death, no mark of ulceration could be per- ceived, not even the place in which the pus had been formed. The hypothesis of pus being a se- cretion was afterwards more fully considered by Dr. Morgan of Philadelphia, in his inaugural thesis, printed at Edinburgh in 1763, entitled " Punpoiosis, sive Tentamen Medicum de Puris Confeclione.'''' The belief that pus is a secretion, or formed at least by an actiim of the vessels ana- logous to secretion, was adopted by Mr. Hunter. Indeed, the merit of the original suggestion of this hypothesis has been ascribed to him, though im- properly. Bniggman, at Leyden, maintained the same doctrine in an excellent thesis "Z)e Paogenia," published in 1785; and it is that which is now very generally taught all Dver Europe. (See Thomsoti, On Infiammalion, pp. 316, 317.) With respect to suppuration from exposed surfaces, how- ever, it is more proper to say, that the vessels se- crete a fluid, which becomes pus; for Sir Everard Home has proved, that this fluid has not the puru- lent appearance, when first secreted, but acquires it while it remains on the inflamed surface, and does not acquire it the less readily, when removed from that surface in a colourless state, provided its proper temperature be preserved, and it be kept exposed to the air, which promotes the change. The opinion, that suppuration is a process ana- logous to glandular secretion, was at first hastily rejected by many, who were swayed by the belief that pus is never foimd blended with the blood in the circulating system. By this mode of reason- ing, however, such thinkers must be led to deny the universally received and undoubted doctrine that the bile is a secretion; and, yet, it is well known, that nothing like this fluid can be detected in an analysis of the blood ; and, indeed, a very small quantity would be sufficient to tinge the whole mass of circulating blood with a yellow co- lour, the same as we see in cases of jaundice. No one would wish to defend the idea of there being either pus, or bile, actually in the circulation; but, only the matter, or modifications of the matter, which, by the combinations, or whatever changes we may choose to term them, produced by the action of the secreting vessels, are converted into one of the particular fluids in question. Accord- ing to Mr. Hunter, in the commencement of what he terms the suppurative disposiiion, the vessels of the cellular membrane, and circumscribed cavities, are but little changed from the state in which they are in the adhesive state of inflammation; hut, afterwards, their condition is altered, and the dis- charge is also every instant "varying and changing from a species of extravasation, to a new-formed matter peculiar to suppuration. This matter is a remove further from the nature of the blood, and becomes more and more of the nature of pus. It becomes whiter and whiter, losing more and more of the yellow and green " and becoming also more viscid and creamy. He adds, " Pus is not to be found in the blood, similar to that which was pro- duced in the first stage ; but is formed from some change, decomposition, or separation of the blood, which it undergoes in its passage out of the vessels; and for effecting which, the vessels of the part have been formed." He further states, "We must look upon it as a new combination of the blood it-