8ia URINARY CALCULI. cession, His data are taken from the exnmi- iiatiiins, made by Professor -Braiide, of tlie calculi in the Himterian Collection ; by Dr. Marcet, of those at Norwich and Guy's Hospital ; by Dr. Henry, of those at Manchester ; and by Mr. Smith, of others preserved at the Bristol Inlirmary. The whole number of calculi examined was 823 ; of these, 294 were classed under the name of lithic acid, 9B of which were nearly pure ; 151 wern mixed with a little of the oxalate of lime, and 45 witli a little of the phosphates ; 113 consisted of oxalate of lime. Three were of cystic oxide ; 202 were phosphates, of which sixteen were nearly pure ; 84 mixed with a small proportion of lithic acid ; 8 consisted of phosphate of lime nearly pure ; 3 of triple phosphate nearly pure, and 91 were fusible or mixed calculi ; 186 were alter- nating calculi, or those whose lamina varied, but consisted of lithic acid, oxalate of lime, and phos- phates ; of these, 15 consisted of lithic acid and oxalate of lime, the first being in tlie greatest pro- portion ; 40 of the oxalate of lime, in the greatest proportion, and lithic acid in the least ; 51 of the lithic acid and the phosphates ; 49 of the oxalate of lime and the phosphates ; 12 of the oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and the phosphates ; 1 of fusible and lithic ; 2 of fusible, and oxalate of lime ; and 16, the composition of which was not mentioned. Of compound calculi, whose composition was not specified, there were 25. (See W. Front's IiKjiiiry into the Nature, ^c. of Gravel and Cal- cuius, p. 94.) The proportion of lithic acid calculi is some- what more than one-third of the whole number. But, as this acid is the common nucleus round which other calculous matter is deposited, Dr. Prout computes the proportion of calculi, ori- ginating from it, to be at least two-thirds of the whole number. According to the experiments of the same physician, the red crystalline calculus is composed of nearly pure lithic acid ; and the earthy, amorphous one consists of lithic acid, more or less ammonia, generally a little of the phosphates, and sometimes a small portion of the oxalate of lime. The lighter the colour, the greater in general the proportion of lithate of ammonia and the phosphates. (P. ! 7.) Ojcalate of lime calculi form one-seventh of the whole number, without any regularity, however, in different museums. Ciistio ojside calculi are so rare, that the pro- portion found was only 1 in 274. Calculi, composed of the phosphates, made about one-fourth of the whole number. Alternating calculi amounted to between one- fourth and one-fifth. Urinary Deposits and Calculi depending UPON THE UlllC OK LiTHIC AciD DiATIIESIS. Dr. Prout believed that at least two-thirds of the whole number of calculi originate from lithic acid ; for, as it forms by far the most common nucleus, round whicli other calculous matter is subsequently deposited, if such luiclei had not been formed and detained, two persona at least nut of three who suffer from stone would never have been troubled with the disorder. {On Gra- vel, Calculus, &c. p. 95.) Lithic or m-ic acid is naturallj' contained either in a free or combined state in the urine of man. and all other animals which consume a great deal of food abounding in azote, as flesh of every kind, fish, shell-fish, eggs, &c. Whenever the urine will redden the tincture of turnsol, Ma- gendie infers, with the generality of chemists, that it contains lithic acid, the proportion of which, he says, varies according to the quantity of sub- stances abounding in azote taken as food. And Magendie further observes, that when animals live altogether on flesh, their urine is full of uric acid, and oven may be entirely composed of it, as is proved, with respect to birds, bj' the experiments both of Dr. Wollaston and Vauquelin. Here Magendie cannot mean free uric acid, but this acid in a state of combination ; for, as Dr. Prout has observed, there is no instance known in which lithic or uric acid is secreted in a pure state : birds, serpents, &c. always secrete it in combination with ammonia ; in the gouty chalk-stone it is secreted in combination with soda. {On the Nature, S^c. of Gro.vel and Calculus, p. 13.) On the contrary, if animals live on vegetables, as is the case with the herbivorous class, Magendie states that there is no appearance of lithic acid in their urine. In a . series of experiments, communicated by Magendie to the Academy of Sciences in 1816, this distin- guished physiologist exemplified that, if a carni- vorous animal be deprived of all nutriment con- taining azote, and be fed with sugar, gum, oil, and other substances considered to be nutritious, and having no azote in their composition, the urine, in three or four weeks, will contain no lithic acid. | (See Mem. sur les Propriclcs 7iulritives des Sub- f stances qui ne contienncnt pas d'Azote. Paris 1817.) A dog, allowed only sugar and distilled water, soon began to grow lean, and died, apparently starved, on the 32nd day from the commencement of his diet. The inference which Magendie draws from his experiments, and from some cases which he has detailed, is, that the quantity of luic acid in the urine, and, of course, the tendency to gra- • vel and calculous disorders, depend very much upon the kind of food. However, he takes into consideration the relative proportion of the uric acid to the urine itself, because, if this be aiso abundant, the liability to calculi is counteracted. It would appear, also, from his observations, that' the urine not only becomes impregnated with a- great proportion of uric acid in animals, which eat a large quantity of flesh, but is also scanty; and that, on the other hand, a vcgetjible diet always pronwtes the secretion of a large quantity of fluid from the kidneys, as well as checks the fomatiou of the acid in question. However, Magendie himself is not so partial to- his theory as not to confess that it is liable to ob* jections; for, says he, individuals are met with every day, who, from their age, manner of livuig, and habits, appear to be subjected to every con- dition calculated to produce gravel, and yet they remain free from it. Magendie might also havfl recollected that some birds which live entirely oA vegetable matter, as scver.-il singing-birds kept in cages, void a good deal of the lithate of ammonifc Nevertheless, as a general rule, it may be said that a vegetable diet tends to prevent the formation of lithic acid calculi, while eating large quan- tities of nitrogenous food has the opposite eltecfc JNTagcndic refers to examples of gravel being aluavs produced in certain individuals after an) niiuiual exertion, and in other apparently lieaitiij