699 TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE, The induration left after inflammation of tlie testicle is described by Sir Benjamin Brodie as dependent upon effusion of l3-mph into tiie inter- stices of tlio glandular structure, and as not pro- ducing any permanent injury of the functions of the organ. In six or twelve months, the hard- ness disappears ; " but," he adds, "there area few cases, in which the inflammation is so severe as actually to injure some portion of the glandular structure. I examined the body of a gentleman who had had inflammation of the testicle from a gonorrhosa twenty years before. The testicle, which had been inflamed, was from that time smaller than the other, and a part of it remained considerably indurated. I knew these facts pre viously, and I was curious to examine the state of the testicle by dissection. On making a section of it, I found that about two-thirds of the tubuli testis remained in their natural condition, while the remainder had been converted into a white substance, having the consistence, but not the fibrous structure, of ligament." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xiii. p. 219.) It is generally a long time before the swelling of the testicle entirely subsides ; previously to its becoming less, it usually becomes softer. " It is still much longer (as Mr. Hunter observes), some- times even years, before the epididymis retm-ns to its natural state ; sometimes it is never reduced to its natural size and softness ; however, this is not of much consequence, as no great inconvenience re- sults from the continuance of the hardness simply, though sometimes, perhaps, such testicles are ren- dered totally useless. I never had an opportunity of examining the testicle of one that was known to have this complaint, but have examined testicles where t!ie epididymis has had the same external feel, and where the canal of the vas deferens has been obliterated. But this, I suspect, seldom happens; for there are people who have both testicles swelled, and, notwithstanding, discharge their semen as be- fore. It is in this stage of the complaint that resolvents may be of service, such as mercurial friction joined with camphor." (^ffujtter on the Ven. Disease, p. 92.) In cynanche parotidea, there is occasionally a transfer of the inflammation to the testicle ; a case requiring the exhibition of liq. ammon. acet., with sulphate of magnesia, or the saline mixture with tartarised antimony, and a pill containing calomel and antimonial powder. Leeches, with a poultice, or cold lotion, are also proper. [Orchitis not nnfrequently supervenes upon an attack of mumps, especially about the lime of puberty, and is considered to depend upon a me- tastasis of the inflammation. It genendly occurs as the affection is leaving the salivary glands, and appears suddenly in one of the testicles, or some- times in both. The inflammation is not severe, and runs its course quickly ; it very seldom passes on to suppuration, or results in any permanent injury to the organ. The scrotum may perhaps be slightly reddened, but there is no effusion into the tunica vaginalis, unless the epididymis be also inflamed. This peculiar inflammation has been observed to commence in the testicle without any previous affection of the salivary glaiuls, and in some cases, during an epidemic of mumps, the testicular swel- ling has been the only evidence of the disease. It has been asserted that atrophy of the testicle frefiuently follows an attack of inflammation during this complaint. Gross states that he has seen several such cases {Si/slcm of Sarjiei-y, vol. ii. p. 473), and other instances are alluded to by various writers. {I/amillon, Trans, of the lioij. Sac. ofEdin. vol. ii. p. 59.) On the other hand, not a single example of this has come under the observation of Sir Astley Cooper or of Mr. Curling, and the ex- perience of most other surgeons is so fully in accord with theirs, that wasting of the testicle after mumps must be regarded as a very exceptional circum- stance.] If suppuration occur,fomentations and poultices are to be applied ; and, as soon as matter can be detected, it should be discharged by a free and deep incision, as otherwise the secreting substance of the testis will be destroyed, and several openings, instead of one, produced. Atrophy, or a wasting away, of the testicle is an occasional consequence of inflammation, and ac- cording to Sir Astley Cooper it takes place more frequently at puberty than at any other age. A person receives a blow on the part, or the testicle inflames spontaneously ; or more rarely the atrophy follows inflammation of the epididymis resulting from gonorrhoea. The change consists in an ab- sorption of the whole of the glandular structure, the tunica vaginalis being left adherent to the tunica albuginea, with the septa alone remaining within the latter. \_Chronic Orohiiis may result from a local in- jury, or remain as a sequence of acute inflam- mation, and this is especially the case in strumous or cachectic persons ; it may also be induced by masturbation or sexual excess.] It is frequently the product of a constitution worn and broken by intemperance. It often fol- lows a long course of mercury ; and "it arises in habits in which the vital powers are diminished, and in which we find sloughing of the cellular membrane in the form of chronic carbuncle. Fre- quent exposure to wet, cold, or fatigue, and an ex- cessive indulgence of the passions, also dispose to its production." {Sir A. Cooper, Op. cit. p. 39.) [But by far the most frequent cause of this disease is some constitutional taint, such as syphilis, scrofula, rheumatism, or gout. The chief characteristic of the affection is its in- dolence and comparative freedom from pain, so that often there is no suspicion of it until the testis has attained a considerable size. Sometimes there is a dull aching in the gland at the onset, and pain is excited by the accidental pressure of the thigh, but, as the disease advances, this gradually ceases, and a sense of dragging upon the cord by the increased weight of the part forms almost the sole discomfort. So long as the affected organ remaius soft and yield- ing to the touch, manipulation causes pain similar to, but more severe than, the ordinary sensation pro- duced by squeezing the healthy gland ; when, however, the swelling has become hard and chro- nic, this is no longer experienced. The testicle may enlarge to the size of a duck's egg or more ; it is very firm and inelastic, but re- tains its smooth oval flattened outline ; the epididy- mis can bo felt at its posterior border but little altered in shape or size. Generally there is some effusion into the tunica vaginalis, and when this occurs, the swelling is larger, more elastic, and much more sensitive, than at other times, as the epididy- mis is then conunonly inflamed also. Both testes are often affected, but the disease seldom commences