886 UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OF patient keeping her bed, the mass will commonly be so far reduced as to enable it to return. If swelling be attended by inflammiitinn of the sur- face of the mass, it will bo proper first to subdue this by cooling astringent lotions ; lead or tannin answers well. A properly applied pessary acts partly by re-inverting the vagina and cervix, by restoring the vessels to their natural relations, and thus by opposing two of the most promnient factors in the formation of prolapsus. Before applying pessaries, it is of primary nnportance to ascertain the absence of adhesions bniding down the uterus. This is done by careful manipulation and by the use of the sound. On carrying the uterus gently upwards, obstruction, if existing, •will be felt. Further information as to treatment by pessaries may be gathered on referring to the article " Pessary." Prolapsus may be likened to Hernia, and the pessary is a kind of truss. Chiai-i, Braun, and Spaeth {Kliuik der Gehurts- Imnde, 1855) rightlv insist upon the importance uf keeping the bladder empty. This tends to prevent the formation of the diverticulum or sac- culation of the bladder. This sacculation was de- scribed by Golding Bird, who pointed out how it led to formation of phosphates and ammoniacal urine. Mr. G. Roper related to me a case of prolapsus uteri et vesica, in which the bladder contained several calculi which could be rattled about by the hand. A similar case of complete procidentia with aversion of the vagina, and calculi in the pouch of the bladder, was under my care at the London Hospital. The idea of supporting the uterus by contracting the vagina has been followed out in late years in various"ways. The method of paring the surfaces of the labia and uniting them by sutures, referred to above by S. Cooper as havinj been practised by Dr. Ireland, has been extensively followed out by Mr. B;iker Brown and others. I have fairly tried it myself. It cannot be called a radical cure, nor is the relief often permanent, unless the vulva is almost completely occluded. It has been seen that the small vulva and perfect hymen of the virgin do not prevent prolapsus, and the narrowing of the vulva simply forms a shelf to receive the falling uterus, which may gradually dilate the vulva and make its way out again. An operation that seems based on a more rational view of the pathology of prolapsus is that proposed by Dr. Marion Sims, and extolled by himself and Dr. Emmet of New York as most eifectual. It con- sists in removing a portion of mucous membrane from the anterior wall of the vagina in the form pf a V, the open part of the V embracing the cervix uteri, and uniting the sides by sutures. The re- sult of this proceeding is to strengthen the vagina itself, which is one of the main supports of the uterus, and especially in that part, the anterior wall, which is always observed to come down first. {Sima'' Clinical Notes on [flerine Suiycri/, ]ii(i<).) The plan advocated by Ilnguier of amputating the hypertrophic elongati d cervix is useful in certain cases. The amputation may bo effected by the knife, the ecraseur, or the galvanic cautery. The laltci- modes are not free from objection. The chain or wire encircling the uterine neck is liable during tighteniuj^ to drag in a fold of vagina and to open the peritonoiim in Doui^las' sac. No such accident need attend the use of the knife. Dr. Gustav Simon (il^oHciis. fur.Gdmrtslc, 1859) transfixes the cervix with a strong needle, and applies the chain e'craseur below this needle. The dragging in of peritoneal pouch or bladder is thus prevented. The best mode ia, perhaps, to dissect up the vagina from off the cervix a little way, then to split the cervix by dividing it at the os on either side; then to cut off the anterior and posterior lips successively with the knife or scissors. If the mucous membrane be then drawn over the stump, and closed by sutures, as recommended by Sims, the wound will com- monly close by first intention. 1 am disposed to think that the principle of this operation does not differ very materially from Dr. Sims' operation above described, of contracting the anterior vaginal wall. It seems difficult to amputate the vaginal portions of the cervix without removing a portion of the vaginal mucous membrane in front; and, \yhen healing, a process of cicatricial contraction anteriorly necessarily results. I have seen this follow in cases of cervical amputation. The judicious course to adopt would seem to he this:—When there is prolapsus without marked elongation of the cervix, remove a portion of the mucous membrane of the anterior vaginal wall on Sims' plan; if there is considerable elongation, amputate a portion of the redundant neck ; at the same time, remove a tri- angular piece of the mucous membrane just in front of the cervix, the base of the triangle merging in the stump of the cervix; and bring the sides of the triauRle together by sutures. Care must be taken to secure the opening of the cervical canal during healing. It is very apt to close during cicatrisation; and the troubles of retained menstrual secretion would follow. It must, however, be ob- served that, where protrusion of the uterus and vagina through the vulva has existed for some time, the vulva and perineum, from constant stretching, have lost natural resiliency. The mu- cous membrane of the posterior wall of the vagina will be in a similar state. Hence it may be use- ful remove a strip of membrane posteriorly as in the operation for perineoraphy, so as to strengthen the floor of the pelvis. „ The diagnosis is discussed imder " Polj-pus and " Inversion." The distinctive feature of pro- lapsus is the OS uteri at the lowest part, whicli admits the sound.] RoheH Barnes. Saviard, Obs. Chir. 12mo. Paris, }J02, X G. Premid, De novo Artificio curandi ^^'V"'''» Uteri, Francof. ad Viadi.. 1710. Lcvret m Jou m ue MM. t. xl. et Obs. sur la Cure radicale dcs l>lu=.ieiirs Polypes, &c. Morgagni, De Sedibus et Causis Mor- borum, epist. xlv. Knlmus, De U'e" Uelnpsu, S P" pressionis Urinn;, et subsequentis Moi t » U isa, SImw, in Mem. oC the Mo .cal Society ol tomtom vol. i Portal, Cours d'i> wmie M^d. t. v- P- "S, et mm. del'Arad. de Chi., t in. ^^f^'Zl-uJovi- de I'Acad. de Cl.ir. t. iii. p. ^Gl, aiu MWecme ype ratoire, t. ii. Ducreux, in .NK.n. ^el'Ac d deOmr. viii. p. <93. OriaHrft-r, Ann.ilen, 1). I. p. 3- des Sciences M<5d t. xxiii. art. IYV Tkv.A ^\- liu Journ. of Med. Science, .y^" f.lter 1822. Meuxner,A\e Dislocationen -ier Geb ii mi tter, s-i OHiorfd, Annali Univ. di Medic na Uec. w . DieJJcnbach, iu Med. Zeitunff, t\. Uiev, Anat. Pathol, livr. xvi. ai d 'de 1829-36. Madame ISotvin et ^"f ^Vo Faris, I'UtL'rus, ct de ses Annexes, &c. 2 vols. , j 1833 ; and translated by 1?'". Hcming. X T^Vntf'^ .v, in Kdiiib. Med. and Surgical Jouni No. -^^^^^^^^^ [.Si;h;m«h, Obstetric Works, 1850. {^';f"'.Y„',,.ice, I'uUonge.nent Uypertrophique du col de la Ma^"= | 1859. Legendre, De la chute del Uterus. ii'«^=<: