NECROSIS instance, in whicli, without any obvious cause, the head of the tibia died, and exfoliated, and the des- truction of the icnee-joint was the consequence. [He also mentions cases where the joints were destroyed in consequence of necrosis of the lower end of the tibia, and of the condyles of the femur. (Brodies Works, hy Hawkins, vol. ii. pp. 2G4 el seq.) The same author observes that death of the artic- ular extremity of a bone must necessarily cause immediate destruction of the entire joint: and the examples related by Stanley and others would ap- pear to support this opinion. But that an epiphysis may perish, without the joint becoming aifected, is shown by a specimen in the Museum of St. Mary's Hospital, where the upper half of the tibia and its .-irticular end ai-e the seat of necrosis : the epiphysis 13 separated from its shaft, and the cartilage cover- ing !t is still adherent to the exfoliated piece, and retains its characteristic appearance, except at one spot, where it is thinned, converted into fibrous tissue, and coated over by an exudation of lymph. Amputation through the knee joint was performed, and the cartilages upon the patella and condyles of the femur were found to be perfectly healthy. In the same museum is a preparation showing necrosis of the lower end of the femur where there is .a loose sequestrum, about the size of a mit, contained in a cavity within the condyles, which has no communication with the knee joint: the cartilages of this articulation are unaltered, except on the external condyle, where a small point has degene- rated into fibrous tissue, as in the preceding case, and is not so thick as elsewhere. The cancellous texture of the head of the tibia appears to be more prone to necrosis than any other articular extremity of the long bones, as indeed it is to the other affections to which bones are liable. I heepiphyses are more subject to disease in persons ot a scrofulous tendency than in others, owino- to the lower degree of vitality which the bones possess 111 such cases.] In Weidraann's celebrated work may be seen engravings, taken from various specimens in which the heads of bones, and even their articular sm-faces were implicated; and in Mr. Listen's collection is a fine example, in which the knee-joint was in volved. It is not, therefore, correct to assert absolutely, as Sir C. Bell has done, " that the ex- tremities of bone are not subject to necrosis" {■Suir,. Ohs. p. .321.) It would be more accurate to say, that those parts are not frequently attacked Our museums contain many specimens of necrosis in the compact texture of bones, though but few in the cancellous structure. "This is evidently the result of the lower degree of vascularity, and it niay be s.-iid, of vital power, in the compact struc- ture ; and It is well illustrated by the effects of the excessive use of mercury on the bones of the "ppcr and thelowerjaw. The former rarely perishes; the latter very frequently from this cause and so too, in necrosis of long bones, the articular ex- tremities are very rarely included in the disease." (hee Lond. Med. Oaz. vol. xx. p. 497 \ I must confess, that numerous instances have fallen "nder my observation, where portions of the uppe jaw perished, from the abuse of mercury. I 1^^^ ^ of a melancholy case, in which this Imppened where syphihs wa, entirely out of the qZtion calomel having been carelessly administered fo,' disease of the liver. (See also 323 Besides the differences arising from the particular bones aftected necrosis also varies, according as the portion of bone attacked happens to be ?hin and of little extent, or large and of considerable tluckness. The disease is simple, when it is con- lined to one bone, and the patient is in other respects healthy; compound, when several differ- ent parts of the same bone, or several distinct bones are aftected at the same time; when the health is bad; and other parts of the body are also diseased. It should also be known, because the information is of practical importance in the tre_atment, that necrosis has three different stages, or.periods. In the first, the bone aftected perishes- in the second, the process of exfoliation, or separ- ation of the dead bone from the living, is going on; and, m the third, the separation is completed. (See Weidmann, p. 8.) Necrosis is divided by some writers into the traumatic and idiopatliic. In the latter, the exfoli- ations are generally more extensive and deep, than in the former, and frequently comprehend the whole thickness of a bone. The idiopathic is also that which is mostly met with in the flat bones. CSee Dell on Diseases a/ the Bones, p. 50.) The causes of necrosis are precisely analogous to those which produce gangrene of the soft parts. As, however, the vitality of the bones is weaker, we may infer, that necrosis may be occasioned in them by causes, which are less numerous and in- tense, and such as would only give rise to suppura- tion in^ the soft parts. Every thing, whether in the periosteum, or the substance of the bone itself, that tends to interrupt the nutrition of the bone, must be regarded as conducive to tlie origin of necrosis. [This affection depends essentially upon an ob- struction to the circulation, whether occurrino' in the substance of the bone itself, or in the structures surrounding ,t, so that the quantity of blood con- veyed to the part is insufficient to maintain its vitality, and necrosis or death takes place J If the mischief in the periosteum, medulla, or substance of the bone, be of trivial extent, the con- sequence may be merely an abscess, but this ter- mination IS very rare. Some of the causes ot necrosis are e^-lernal, while others are internal, or constitutional. Sometimes the life of the bone is instantaneously destroyed by them ; but in other instances, the bone is first stimulated audits death IS preceded by true inflammation. [Gerdy, in his valuable monograph (Maladies des oryanes d,t mouvement, p. 217), asserts that ne- crosis 13_ never caused by inflammation of the osseous tissue, and some modem writers share this opinion. He admits, however, that portions of bone, even of considemble size, may perish from the eftects of osteitis, but considers that the dis- eased action which brings about their removal is that of caries and not of necrosis. There can be no doubt that inflammation will occasion the death of bone, and whether we refer the process by which those sequestra are separated " to the ul- cerating inflammation of caries, or to the eliminat- ing inflammation of necrosis" {ojk cit. p. 159), the cause of death is still the same, viz., a deficient nutrition of the part in consequence of some im- pediment to the circulation through it. This hindrance to the pass.ago of blood is produced either by the pressure of inflammatory exudation upon the vessels within the Haversian canals, Y 2