37-2 CESOPHAGUS had been made to force it down into the stomadi. and, as il ivas perceptible on the. left side of the neck, Goursauld made an incision for its extraction. The bone was thus easily taken out, no bad symptoms followed, and the wound soon healed. For six days the patient was not allowed to swallow any kind of food, but nourished entirely by clysters. According to Morand, a similar operation was performed, with equal success, by Roland." (Mem. de CAcad. do Chir. t. iii. p. 91.) The praciicable nature of the operation, and the tendency of wounds of the ossophagus to heal favourably, when not complicated with other mis- chief of too serious a description, are facts proved beyond all dispute. In attempts at suicide and murder, and in cases of gunshot injury, the ceso- phagus is sometimes wounded, together with other parts in the neck, and yet the patients frequently recover ; and, when they die, their fate seems to depend rather upon other unfavourable circum- stances in their cases, than upon the accidental injury of the gullet. Cures of wounds, involving the latter tube, as well as the trachea, are reported by numerous writers, B. Bell, Desault, Bohnius, &c., and several have fallen under my own obser- vation. If it were necessary to substantiate this point further, I might cite the instance, recorded on the authority of Dr. James Johnson, where a man recovered after the larynx had been com- pletely severed between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and one half of the calibre of the oeso- phagus divided. (See HennenS Military Surgery, p. 364. ed. 2.) But, supposing a wound of the oesophagus, abstractedly considered, were more dangerous than it really is, the question of the propriety of oesophagotomy would not be materially affected by it, because the operation is never re- commended except as a matter of necessity, and without which the patient would have no chance of preservation. On the outer side of the trachea, its muscles, and the thyroid gland, there is on each side of the neck a triangular space, the apex of which is downwards, and which is bounded externally by the sterno-mastoid muscle. In the area of this triangle we find the skin, and superficial fascia, the platvsma myoides, some cellular tissue, the laj'ers of the cervical fascia, between which the oiro-hyoideus plavs, and lastly, the sheath enclosing the carotid artery and the jugular vein. If this .iheath be drawn away from the trachea, we ap- proach the organs situated in front of the bodies of the cervical vertebrse, and in tracing the parts from without inwards, we meet with the ceso- phagus, which is the first and only muscular tex- ture that will present itself. No vessels, nor nerves of importance, need be injured. But the wound must not descend nearer to the sterimm than one or two finger-breadths, lest the inferior thyroid artery be cut ; nor be carried up above the hyoid bone, not only because the laryngeal nerve, and the lingual and superior thyroid arteries might be wounded, but because we should thus get to the pharynx, in which the foreign body is not lodged. (See Malgaigne, Manuel dc Mid. Oper. p. 497. ed. 2.) [A patient on whom the operation is about to be performed should be placed in the recumbent position, with the head and shoulders supported on pillows. The head should at the same time be ■thrown back, and the neck -well exposed. The Ifft side is always chosen, unless the foreign body project on the right, on account of the slight de- tlectinn the oesophagus makes to that side. Our superficial incisions are limited above and below by tiie level of the thyroid cartilage and the sternum, and laterally by tlie trachea and anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. More deeply we work in aline midway between the sterno-mastoid and sterno- hyoid and thvroid towards the vertebral column. Several modes of opening the oesophagus have been proposed. Let us shortly refer to these before detailing that most usually adopted.] I. Giiattani cut between the trachea and the steriio-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, on the left side. "The patient is to sit on a chair, with his head inclined backward, and steadily supported by an assistant. The skin having been pinched up into a transverse fold, an incision is to be made iu the integuments from the upper part of the sternum. The cellular tissue, between the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles and trachea, is next to be divided. With two blunt hooks, the lips of the wound are to be kept open ; and, on separating the cellular tissue at the side of the trachea with the aid of the finger and a few strokes of the knife, the oesophagus will be seen. The lower part of this tube is then t.i be opened, and the wound in it enlarged with a pair of curved blunt-pointed scissors, a director being employed if any difficulty arise. With a small pair of curved forceps, similar to those used for the extraction of polypi, the foreign body may then be removed. According to Guattani, the wound will serve for tlie extrac- tion of the foreign body, whether this be situated above or below it, and he asserts that the opening will even be useful when the extraneous substance has passed so far down that it cannot be taken out, because it may now be easily pushed into the stomach. Guattani lays great stress on the use- fulness of endeavouring to unite the wound, and adverts to his experiments, proving that, m ani- mals, wounds of the oesophagus heal very favour- ably. If, says he, the vein which brings back the blood from the inferior parts of the thyroid gland, and runs into the subclavian, happen to be cut, tli^ hemorrhage may be stopped with a dossil of lint held upon the aperture in the vein during tne operation, and afterwards, if the bleeding contimie, compression, or a ligature, is to be employed. I he recurrent nerve, if likely to be touched with the knife, is to be cautiously drawn aside with a blunt tenaculum." (See Man. de l\4cwi. Chir. t, in. 2. [Eckholt made his incision between the two heads or portions of the sterno-mastoid. 3 NL<iaton prefers the following. He makes his incision along the central line of neck, as in tracheotomy, only dividing the tissues more freel.,. The sterno'-hyoid muscle is then so freed that it can be drawn aside with a blunt hook Ihi. muscle may, if thought desirable, be divided. Two ligatures are next passed, by a blunt hook, under the isthmus of the thyroid body, and tied at a short distance apart and between the ligatures, the isthmus is divided. The trachea, wh.cl. is "O^ bare, is followed closely round-the eft lobe ot the hyroid and the overlying tissues being sepa- n ted and drawn outwards, and the -^sophagn ,s found with ease lying behind and to t|,e left of he trachea. There is here no risk of wounding any of the great blood-vessels, or the inferior thy-