■10-28 WOUNDS. that of disease.'' He used wine alone, or having mixed with it astringents or resinous matters. Thus gall nuts, saffron, m^-rrh, the twigs of the oak, the dried peel of the pomegranate, &c., were used, mixed with the wine. Celsus, Galen, Paul d'Egineta, all used wine dressings, sometimes mixed with oil; and the writer on one occasion in Asia Minor saw the same agents used hy the Turks during the Russian war. By washing out tlie wound with wine, the ancients proposed to arrest bleeding, by constriiiging the small vessels and cleaning the raw surfaces. Ar- nauld de Villeneuve, Guy de Chauliac, Paracelsus, Petit, Larrey, and many others in more recent times, continued and lauded the same practice. Dionis used camphorated spirit of wine. Deoault abandoned it and introduced cerat and vegetable or mineral washes. In 1859 MM. Batailhe'and Guillot proposed to the Academy of Sciences to revert to tliis old dressing, and Nelaton has prac- tically shown its great advantages. It is from camphorated spirit of wine that the best results have been got. It is found to act as a coagulant and astringent, and thus to favour early adhesion ; to moderate undue granulation in open wounds, and very manifestly to act as a disinfectant, and pre- vent complications such as erysipelas, gangrene, and purulent infection. Alcohol destroys the pus cell bj' dissolving its envelope when brought into contact with it external to the body, and on the surfaje of wounds its beneficial effects may thus be partly explained. M. Chedevergne, having clinically experimented with every known anti- septic, including carbolic acid, came to the conclu- sion that "camphorated spirit of wine is without contradiction the best disinfectant which can be found for the treatment of wounds and ulcers." The manner in which alcohol is supposed to act in preventing purulent infection is by closing the open vessels, opposing the softening and ulceration of bloodvessels in old suppurating wounds, and in obviating the putrefaction of the pus. There can be no doubt but that alcoholic dressings deserve more attention from British surge(ms than they liave yet received. The tinctures of aloes, arnica, benzoin (" Friar's balsam "), and catechu have also been used, but the best results have been got from the camphorated spirit of wine. Maissoneuve proceeds in tliis way. He bathes the raw surfaces of the wound with alcohol, or ■with diluted tincture of arnica, and having sup- ported the lips with adhesive plaster so placed as not to interfere with the free escape of dis- charges, envelopes the whole in a bandage steeped in tincture of arnica, and overall applies Guerin's india-rubber apparatus, which he lias somewhat modified by adding a glass vessel, capable of con- taining three or four litres, fitted with a vulcanised india-rubber stopper, and traversed by two metiiliic tubes. An exhausting pump of small size, and in shape like an ordinary syringe, provided with a \ulcanised tube, is conni'cted to one of the tubes in the receiver and enables the air in it to be exhausted, and as the india-rubber bag whicii covers the wound (stump) connnunicates with the receiver by the other tube, all secretions fall into it so soon as the air is withdrawn from the receiver, while no air gains admission to the wound. As the i-eceiver is transparent, all that fulls within it is lit onte seen. This siniplilication of the apparatus lias added much to its iiduptubility Lt ordinary practice. The pump must be worked every few hours, so as to prevent tlie secretions destroying the closeness of the fit between the india-ruliber bag and the surface, and so leaving these exuda- tions to decompose in a confined atmosphere. Foucher, again, uses alcohol combined with gly- cerine and chlorate of potiish (400 parts of the first, 625 of the second, and 40 of the last, which gives a transparent liquid that does not stiiin); while Demarquay eulogises glycerine alone as a dressing of much advantage to wounds. Since the experiments of MM. Come and Demeaux with Paris plaster and powdered coal-t<n-, various preparations of tar have been advocated m disinfectants, and many of them are highly useful. LeboBuf's eaponine preparation is one of the liest. No antiseptic has attracted more deserved atten- tion than phenic alcohol since Lemaire and others used it abroad, but especially after the careful experiments and strikingly successful practice of Professor Lister. Tiiat carbolic acid dissolved in water or mixed with oil in various proportions, forms a most admirable antiseptic dressing for wounds the writer can most anipl}'testify. Even in the most serious wounds in which bone and deep tissues are widely implicated, the carelul manage- ment of them by the method so minutely desciihed by Mr. Lister (Lancet, 18(59 and 1870), has been found to succeed. The depths of the wound must be well washed out by a watery solution of the acid (1 to 40), and the lips afterwards carefully guarded by a covering impregnated with the anti- septic, while provision is made for the free escape of all discharges beneath the veil or rag wliiJi covers the orifice. Mr. Lister's method of employ- ing this agent is of course wholly founded on the "germ theory" of suppuration; and while the primary washing out aims at the destruction of all germs which may have been carried into the re- cesses of the wound, the subsequent guarding of the orifice has in view the destruction of all such organisms in the air that comes into contact with the part, and so the prevention of any putrefactive influences. That very much can be done by the careful development of tliis system of practice, and that much more may be e.xpected of it than has even yet been accomplished, no one who has read Mr. Lister's able papers can doubt. Many other agents have been employed with success in the d;siiifection of woui.di. Aromatic wine; infusion of elder flowers (Cusco); solutions of the perchloride and sulphate of iron (Professor Bourgade); iodine alone, or in various ci in'mia- titns ; chloride of zinc (Mr. De Morgan), aO or 40 grains to the ounce; solutions of peruiarga iiiie of potash (Reveil and Condy); chloride of lime and soda diluted; turpentine, petroleum, hrouniie, su'phate of alum, charcoal, lotions of arnica, sul- phurous acid, ai d the sulphiies and hyposulphites (Dis. PoUiand Dewar); Richardson's colloid styp- tic, &c. Of the great advantages to be derivca from the solutions of the perchloride of iron, lodme* permanganate of potash, chloride of zinc, and tul- phnrous acid in the management of open, supiura' ting, and, above a'i, foul wounds, the wriier In" l a 1 ample proof, both in public and private prac- tice. Charcoal is dirty, and acts by hasteiiii^ oxidation; it has no advanta;?es over manageable and cleaner applications, such ns perchloride of iron or the permanganate P» ''''' Venice turpentine was long ti favourite nppHutiou