OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 380 small one near the margin. The whole instrument, togeiliL-i with a convex lens, is mounted in a tortoise-shell frame. The Ophthalmoscope of Heijfelder.—This con- sists of a small concave mirror, the size of an English florin, having a movable handle of blackened wood. In the centre the metal covering of the mirror has a circular perforation two lines in diameter, the glass itself remaining entire. The concave and convex lenses may be inserted in a movable black ring, that may either be attached to a second wooden handle and used by tlie free hand, ov, more conveniently, may be fixed to a small cross-piece of brass on tlie mirror, and thus placed at a distance of from I" to 2", either before or behind it. In this arrangement the wliole apparatus is managed by one hand, and the other is left at liberty to steady the head of the patient. The Ophthalmoscope of Soleil, according to the description furnished by Dr. Castor.ini, precisely resembles in appearance a botanical lens. It consists of a common centially-perfurated concave mirror, of 20 centimetres focal distance, and 32 millimetres diametcr,of a bi-convex lens of 55 milli- metres foial distance, and of a handle. When closed, it is 8 centimetres in length, 4 in breadth, and 18 millimetres in thickness. The Ophthalmoscope of Cusco consists of a hollow upright stfm of wood 10'' in height, and furnished with a screw by which it can be fastened to the edge of a table. In this stem a wooden pillar slides np and down, and is retained in any desired position by a spring at its lower extremity. Its upper end is united by a simple joint to a brass ring, which is lined with cloth, and carries a movable wooden tube. This again con- tains a sliding stem, and carries a brass ring with ii jointed brass rod terminiited by a little knob. Itcarries also a concave mirror, supported by_ a brass semicircle, and turning in the tube on its vertical axis. The stem also supports in the same manner a lens. The focal length of the mirror is 8", and that of the lens is 2". The Ophthalmoscope of J'dger.—ln order to unite inone apparatus theadvantagesof Helmholtz's, Ruete's, and other ophthalmoscopes, Ja^er has constructed an apparently complicated instrument, the description of which belongs to this place, since it is chiefly used with a concave mirror. It consists (1) of a short tube which turns on its axis in a ring attached to a handle. The tube at its anterior extremity is sloped off at an angle ■of 60°, and has two opposite slits for the reception of the trunnions of a mirror. Outside the tube are two springs corresponding to these slits, and serving to secure the mirror in its position. Within the tube is a diaphragm with a central perforation, one centimetre in diameter. At the hinder end of the tube is a sliding ring, also with a diaphragm and a corresponding perforation. This ring can be ea=ily removed and replaced, and serves to hold a lens between the two diaphragms. ' (2) Of a concave mirror of 7" or -1" focal length, fixed in a metal ring with two trunnione.and pro- tected on its silvered side by a thin metal plate. The latter has a central opening, two decimal lines in diameter, and the mirror itself is drilled to corre- spond. (3) Of a metal ring, also with two trunnions, and holding three or more plates of plane glass. which are secured by a second ring screwed into the first. (4) Of a metal tube, of which the broader part is made to slide over the front part of the tube, the slits in the sides of the tube corresponding to springs and receiving them. In the narrower part this tube will contain either a single bi-convex lens, or two plano-cnnvex lenses, or the objective of a Briicke's magnifier. (5) Of a black paper disc of from 6" to 12" in diameter, slit to the centre and fastened to a metal ring, by means of which it can be placed upon the ring within which the tube turns, the slit corresponding to the handle of the instrument. The lines are a Vienna inch apart, and as well as the numbers, are coloured white. The instrument is commonly supplied with eight concaves, Nos. 2, 3, 4,5, 6, 8, 10, and 12, and with four convex lenses, Nos. 2, 6, 8, and 12, which fit into the hinder end of the tube. By placing the ring with the plane glasses into the front of the instrument, we obtain Helm- holtz's Ophthalmoscope by substituting the con- cave mirror, and holding a strong convex lens No. 2 or 3, before the eye of the patient we obtain Bnete's, and by placing the objective tube in its position, with the necessary convex or con- cave glass between the diaphragms, the instru- ment can be used as a magnifier. To use this ophthalmoscope, the observer places himself close to find opposite the patient in a darkened chamber^ with their eyes at the same level, and with the patient's eye under the in- fluence of atropia. A brightly burning lamp should be placed upon a table, from 4" to 6" from tlie side of the patient's head, and sufficiently far back to leave the eye in the shade. The mirror being fixed in its slits, and the tube rotated until the trunnions are directed upwards and downwards, parallel to the handle, the oblique section of the tube is turned towards the light, and the instrument is held upright, close to the eye of the observer, in such a direction that he, looking along the axis of the tube, through the per- foration of tlie mirror, sees the eye of the patient. With the free hand, the trunnious are then so far turned that the patient's eye becomes thoroughly illuminated by the leilection, and that the pupil coincides with the centre of the illumin- ation. The disturbing reflections from the cornea may be displaced by giving slight obliquity to the instrument. By inserting No. 10 concave, we obtain an erect retinal image magnified about twenty-four limes. By using the concave mirror of 4" focus, and holding a convex lens of 2", 3", or 4" mime- diately before the patient's eye, we obtain a clear inverted image, magnified from twice to foiir times. For examining the transparent media, it is best to use only the plane glasses, or a convex mirror of 7" focal distance, and by placing between the diaphragms a convex glass of 12", 8", or G", we obtain any desired degree of en- largement. , , To use this as Helmholtz's Ophthalmoscope the ring with plane glasses and the necessary con- cave leus must be inserted, the amp brought forwards, and the patient shaded by the inter- position of a screen, the sliadovv of which should Just cover his eye. To shield the obserN^r from the light, and to steady the eye observed, the disc