356 NEURALGIA. oil, as a nutrient medicine for nervdus tissue. The plan of treatment he proposes for neuralgia is as follows;—" To take care that the diet does not contain too much lean meat, and too little fatty and oily matter; to look on the properly regulated use of alcoholic drinks as essential to success in treatment; to avoid tea altogether ; to be very chary in the use of sugar ; to give some preparations of phosphorus, with or without cod-liver oil, as nutrients for a starved nerve-tissue; to avoid the habitual employ- ment of aperients, and as a rule eschew the use of sedatives in sedative doses." (Bi ii, Med. Journ. 1863.) Narcotics and sedatives are medicines of great value in the treatment of neuralgic affections, even ■when given in sedative doses, provided proper judgment is exercised as regards the repetition of them. Opium and its alkaloids, morphia, narceine, codeine, &c., belladonna and its alkaloid atropia, conium, aconitina, stramonium, &c., may be used locally to allay pain, or generally, to relieve the system from exhaustion, and to give sleep. _ When neuralgia occurs in people of a nervous or irritable temperament, it is often better to cut the gordian or neuralgic knot at once by a sedative, than to keep the patient lingering amid paroxysms, whilst we are hoping in time to untie or cure it by a course of iron or quinine. I have indeed seen neuralgia, which had re- sisted all kinds of tonics, overcome by steadily keeping up narcotic or rather anodyne action, by hypodermic injection of morphia, until the patient was cured. The existence of neuralgia, as of phagedsena, seems at times to preserve the patient from a narcotic result from narcotics, A careful examination for some years of the action of what are called sedatives and narcotics, has con- vinced me that their action in neuralgia is often more tonic than narcotic, more stimulant than sedative. This is more particularly the case when they are administered by means of the Hypodermic or subcutaneous method.—Under this name is implied the injection into the cellu- lar tissue of medicinal agents. See article Subcu- taneous Injection. It may be employed in neuralgia locally, as practised by Dr. Wood, of Edinburgh, as long ago as 1848 ; by Mr. Rynd, of Dublin, in 1844, and by Dr. Kurzak, of Vienna, about the same time. Dr. Wood carried the morphine inoculation of the French to greater perfection, by injecting the alkaloid into the tender neuralgic spots indicated by Valleix. He, introduces the solution, we repeat {Ran- king's Abstract, vol. xxi. p. 40), as near as possible to the painful part of the affected nerve ; where, as M. Valleix has pointed out, there is usually more or less tenderness on pressure, even in the interval between the paroxysms of pain. This he insists upon as an important point of practice. Or the injection may be employed at a distance from the neuralgic part, and with equal success, as pointed out by myself in 1858. A number of cases were operated upon by me, both locally and at a distance, in St. George's Hospital, with equal effect. A lady had severe tic douloureux for many months; the endermic method, with morphia ap- plied upon the blistered surface, was tried without benefit ; so likewise were internal stomachic :ncdicines. This patient was cured by a singl morphine puncture in the arm. It is still an open question whether localization or the distant injection is preferable. I believe the chief benefit to be due to the mode of the introduction, that is by the cellular tissue, not to the agent being in- jected into the tender spot. I have over and over again found the effect of the distantin '^ection upon the pain to be as rapidly effective as when localized. It may be an advantage to be able to get the same effect without localizing. It avoids the necessity for bringing on a paroxysm. It is less painful to inject the outer arm than the face or head ; and, again, the neuralgia may be situated in parts diffi- cult of access under ordinary circumstances. The alkaloids most valuable for hypodermic in- jection are atropia, morphia, quinine, and strychnia. The acetate of morphia may be used,—strength, six or twelve grains to the drachm. The latter can be used free from acid enough to cause no subsequent irritation. The dose must vary from one-eighth to one-half or three-quarters of a grain for a first injection, according to the case. Of atropine, the sulphate is the best form— one grain to fifty or sixty minims. I have found this alkaloid, which I first proposed for hypoder- mic injection, in 1858, to be of great value in cutting short the paroxysms; and it will usually, in ordinary cases, cure the neuralgia after two or three injections. Atropia thus employed acts as a sudden stimulant to the whole system. The first injection should not exceed the thirtieth of a grain ; as a rule, morphia may be thus first used in cases of neuralgia of cerebral origin, atropia of spinal origin. Out of eighty patients upon whom I have em- ployed the atropine injection, thirty-four have been cases of neuralgia—twenty-one of the thirty-four were cases of facial tic-douloureux. The results of the treatment are as follows! twelve out of the thirteen cases of neuralgia were either cured or decidedly benefited; so also were eighteen out of the twenty-one cases of facial tic; the remaining four patients received no benefit at all. Quinine may be injected when it has no effect by the mouth, or when stomachic irri- tability or headache attends its stomachic ad- ministration. The advantages of this mode of dealing with neuralgia are:— 1. The great rapidity with which the paroxysm is subdued, and relief obtained. 2. The greater certainty of effect than by the stomach. 3. That it can be used when the stomach rejects all food and medicine. 4. That the curative effect is usually much greater than that which follows the repeated ad- ministration of the same alkaloid by the mouth, or by the endermic method. 5. That with carefully-regulated doses, the stomach and bowels sufier no derangement, as they usually do by stomachic anodynes. Should the hypodermic injection of remedies fail to do more than arrest the paroxysm, it can be used still for that object, being the quickest method for relieving pain ; and other meiisures may be had recourse to, to remove, if possible, the tendency of the pain to recur. lu conclusion, be it observed, that neuralgic patients should not tax tlieir mental or bodily strength too niiidi ; any systemic causes exhaust-