OVARIOTOMY. 408 We find a passage in Pliny's " Historia Ani- nialiiim" (lib. viii. c. 77):" Castrantur suis foeminee quoque, slcuti cameli, post Wdui inediam suspenste pernis prioribus, vulva lecisa; celeriiis ita pingue- scunt," which appears dubious, whether castration or infibulation is alluded to. In the IXth Book of U^pl Zdav 'laroplas of Aristotle, the castration of cows and camels is mentioned. Atheneeus, in AfnTVoa-otjyiffTwv (lib. xii. c. 9), relates a story of Andramystes, a Lydiau king, who kept castrated females instead of eunuchs in the service of bis harem; and Gyges, another Lydian king, is reported to ha've had several of his concubines castrated, in order to prolong the charms of their youth. Omitting some apocryphal records of later periods, we pass on to several writers of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, as Vierus, Riolan {Opera prima, Paris, 1610; Anatome, p. 142), Diemerbioeck (Anaioviia corporis humani, Lyon, 1679 ; I. I. c. xxiii.), Boerhave (PrcBlcct. Academ. in prop. inst. f. 5 pars 2 and 669), Graaf {de mulicrum Organ. General, inscrv. Tract, nov. caj). 13), Plater (06sen\ lihri ires, Basle, 1680, p. 248), &c., who either mention the ex- tirpation of the ovaries as having been performed, or propose this operation in the treatment of nymphomania. So far, by all these writers, the removal of sound ovaries from strong and healthy individuals, placed under the most favourable circumstances, was proposed or commented on. In the present day a diseased organ is extirpated from a person more or less weakened and distressed by long suf- fering. The ancient operation was the pander to luxurious vice and immorality. Modern ovariotomy, when successful, rescues the victim from otherwise hopeless suffering and certain death, and, even when unsuccessful, mercifully shortens her martyr- dom. It was not earlier than in the seventeentb and eighteenth centuries that ovariotomy was proposed and suggested as a radical cure for diseased ovaries, and as late as in the beginning of the eighteenth century, that this operation was first performed, although it remained long in discredit; and it is only within the last ten years that it has been at all frequently or generally practised. Theodor Schorkoff, in his Dissertatio medica in- auguralis de Hydrope Ovarii (Sept. 7, 1685), ex- presses the belief that the extirpation of dropsical ovaries would lead to a permanent cure, if the operation itself were less cruel and hazardous. Schlenker, in the 21st thesis of his dissertation De singidari ovarii sinistri morho (1722), proposes the question whetlier a radical cure of diseased ovaries might not be elfected by the removal of the organ through an incision in the abdomen; but he leaves the answer to his more experienced col- leagues. Soon after him, Willius of Basle published (in 1731) a pamphlet, Specimen mediciim sistens slu- pendicm abdominis tumorem, which contains the following passage : " When, however, the dropsy fills all the chambers of the ovary, when the fluid is thick and viscid, and no hope of recovery is en- tertained, we question whether such an ovary ought not to be extirpated, and so the root and cause of the disease be removed. We know from experi ence that severe and large abdominal wounds have healed; they are not likely to prove more dan- gerous in the case of attempting a cure by excision of the ovaries." Notwithstanding this advanced view, he still shrank from the execution of the operation, afraid of the extent of the incision re- quired to remove large tumors; of the adhesions likely to be met with; the pain inflicted; the hsemorrhage, the exposure of the abdominal viscera, and its fatal consequences. Giovanni Targioni Tozetti recommends the extirpation of the ovaries as a last resource, when all other curative means have failed. (Prima raecoUa di osservazioni me- diche, Firenze, 1752, p. 78.) Ulric Peyer (Acta Helvetica, t. 1. Basil, 1751, app. 1), Theden [Nova acta, nai. curios, torn. v. p. 289), and Delaporte {Memoires de I'Academic Royale de Chirurgie, 1833, p. 757) recommend the extirpation of ovarian tumors; and Morand, the Secretary to the Academy, prophesies the ultimate triumph of this operation with the words: " Modern surgery is capable of great achievements; unlimited roads ought to be opened to her goal—to cure." Antony de Haen (Ration- Medend., part iv. cap. 5 § 2) and Morgagni were opposed to the opera- tion, which W. Hunter and Van Swieten {Com- mentaries in H. Boerlm.ve's Aplior.: 1770, tom. iv. § 1223) justify in extreme cases. Dr. William Hunter, in a paper " On Cellular Tissue," published in 1762, in the second volume oT the Medical Observations and Inquiries, after stating that the trocar is almost the only palliation in the treatment of ovarian dropsy, says: " It has been proposed by modern surgeons, deservedly of the first reputation, to attempt a radical cure by incision and suppuration, or by excision of the cyst." In support of his opinion, " that excision can hardly be attempted," having pointed out diffi- culties during the operation, and dangers following it, which modern practice has overcome, he con- cludes with the following words, which foreshadow some of the modifications in the operation, by which ovariotomy, once stigmatised as cruel, bar- barous, scarcely less than murder, has become one of the most brilliant triumphs of modern surger)\ Hunter says : " If it be proposed, indeed, to make such a wound in the belly, as will admiltivo fingers or so, and then tap the bag and draiv it out, so as to bring its root or peduncle close to tlie wound of the belly, that the surgeon may cut it without in- troducing his hand, surely in a case othenvise so desperate it might be advisable to do it, could we beforehand know that the circumstances would admit such treatment." {Op. cit. p. 45). Not many years'later, ovariotomy found an en- thusiastic advocate in Chambon {Maladies des femmes. Maladies chroniques a la cessation des regies, chap, xxxix. Be Ve.vtirpalion des ovaires, Paris, 1798). Adhesions, he says, do not gene- rally render ovariotomy impossible. They are mostly found between the tumor and the perito- neum, the broad ligament, the fallopian tubes and their fringes, and sometimes the omentum and the intestines. It is not always possible to detcrmme the extent and the nature of the existing adhesions beforehand, when the tumor is movable. When the tumor is free, difficulties in the operation and serious accidents will seldom be met with, pro- vided the patient is not suflering from any dis- crasia or is much exhausted, in which case the operation ought not to be performed. Adhesions with the omentum seldom interfere with the mo-