585 SKIN, DISEASES OF. pathological condition is occasionally met with in the scrotuu). Atrophia cutis occurs in two princi- pal forms, either as white and pearly lines whicli resemble cicatrices, atrophia linearis ; or as an atrophj' of greater extent, affecting in some in- stances the integument of the entire body. 10. Alphous Affections.—Alphos, the lepra of Willan, and psoriasis of most continental authors, consists of fiat and slightly elevated red patches, usually of a circular figure, and covered with a thin laminated crust of white and morbid cuticle. The crust may be thin or thick according to the duration or activity of the eruption, but is com- monly so thiclc as to conceal the redness and elevation of the' patch, and become the most conspicuous character of the affection. The disease begins by small red papules and tubercles, which are soon surmounted with thin scales; the tubercles then increase by their circumference while they subside in the centre, and the thin scale is gradually converted into a white and lamellated silvery crust. At a later period the centre of the patch recovers the healthy appearance of the sound skin, while the margiu spreads and the patch is converted into a ring ; and, ultimately, the peri- piieral growth ceases, the prominent margin sub-, sides, and the skin is restored to health. These changes occupy many months and often years, and the disease may be perpetuated for a lifetime by the outbreak of fresh patciies as their predecessors fade and decline. Alphos selects the outer side of a limb and especially the convexity of joints, as of the elbows and knees, and is remarkable for its sj-mmetry of distribution. On the elbows and knees it is never absent, and it assumes in those regions the diffused form, while the eruption is discrete over the rest of the body; not unfre- quently it exists in these situations when no vestige of the disease is to be discovered elsewhere. Sometimes, in severe attacks, the patches present cracks and fissures from which an oozing of blood takes place. The varieties of Alphos are:—A. guttatus vel alphoides, circinatus vel vulgaris, difi'ijsus, and inveteratus; to which may he added, in deference to Willan, A. nigricans and syphi- liticus, and as local sub-varieties, A. capitis and unguium. A. guttatus vel alphoides has received its dduble name on account of the small size of its tubercles, resembling drops of water dispersed upon the skin, and their whiteness, due to the thin scales by which they are covered. A, circi- natus vel vulgaris is the common variety of the eruption, the patches are circular, and vary in size from the diameter of a fourpenny piece to a crown piece or more. (P. nummularis, Devergie.) They increase by their circumference while the centre subsides and in the progress of growth are converted into rings, wliich are subsequently broken and ultimately disperse. A. diffasus is a confluent form of the eruption in whicli a number of prill.ary tubercles are collected into a group, and become covered individually and collectively with a thin and interrupted crust. In both the preceding varieties the patch which forms upon the elbows and knees is of this kind; while the patches on the rest of the body are larger than those of A. vulgaris but vary considerably in extent. A. inveteratus is a diffused form of con- siderable breadth,often embracing the whole of the internodial portion or even the entire limb. The crust is thick and white, and forms a kind of case to the afl'ected extremity. A. nigricans scarcely deserves notice as a variety ; its peculiarity depending on a blueish and livid appearance of the patch, resulting from a languid and debilitated state of constitution. A. syphiliticus is a tubercular eruption, resembling alphos rather tlian possessing its specific characters. A. capitis illustrates one of the habitats of alphos, the hairy scalp, where it is generally extremely obstinate. It extends just beyond the limit of the hair all over the head, and is covered with thin and broken scales. A. unguium : when alphos is extensive in its eruption over the body, it not unfrequently attacks the matrix of the nails; grey spots are developed under the nail, the nail covering the spot becomes yellowish like horn, and at a later period the nails are rough and deformed, more or less loosened, and ultimately fall. Sometimes A. unguium is met with without any eruption on the rest of the body. 11. Strumous Affections. — Scrofulo- derma is the proper designation of certain small indolent tubercles of a purplish hue, developed in a strumous constitution and terminating in chronic abscess; the abscess opens at one or more points, and is indisposed to heal, often becoming sinuous and permanent; also, of certain chronic and in- dolent ulcers equally of strumous origin, some- times existing alone and sometimes in connection with scrofulous tubercles. A scrofulous inflam- mation of the matrix of the nail terminating in thickening of the end of the finger and ulceration at the root and along the lateral wall is termed scrofuloderma unguale. Lupus is a soft red tubercle of scrofulous origin, developed in the skin, commonly on the nose or face, causing a total disorganisation of the cutaneous tissues, and terminating by absorption or ulceration. When the tubercles subside, they leave behind them deep pits or permanent cicatrices. The varieties of lupus are:—L. erythematosus, non exedens and exedens. L. erythematosus is a circumscribed erythema of the skin of small extent, and com- monly developed on the nose, cheeks, ears, and scalp. It presents nothing of a tubercular charac- ter excepting, in rare instances, a slightly raised margin of a deep red hue, and is allied with lupus only by its permanence and destructive nature. The area of the patch is dry and horny and some- what depressed from thinness and atrophy of the affected skin; and the sebiferous pores are dis- tended with dry epithelial exuvite. When it attacks the scalp it destro^'s the hair and gives rise to an incurable form" of area. L. non exe- dens consists of one or more tubercles which are but slightly elevated, of a yellowish red hue, soft and transparent, and resembling a drop of jelly effused into the substance of tlie skin. They are com- monly developed on the cheek and nose and furni a patch which increases slowly by its circumfer- ence, while the central tubercles subside without ulceration; rarely, the tubercles ulcerate super- licially and become covered with thin scales. The disease seldom gets well spontaneously, but com- monly lasts for a lifetime; and the skin over which it has passed presei.'is a rem.irkable cica- trix. When the disease affei:ts the nose, it occa- sions absorption of the edges of the ala»; and sharpens the outline of the organ by rendering the form of the cartilages conspicuous. When it approaches the eyelids, it draws them down some-