LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF 162 with the second stage. But, at this period, a good deal of mucus is secreted from the ca- runcula lachrymalis and Meibomian glands, and collects and glues the eyelids together, especially during sleep. At the same time mucus generally accumulates in the lachrymal sac itself, and may be voided both through the puncta lachrymalia and nasal duct by gentle pressure. The mucus, discharged from the nostril, also acquires a thicker consistence. Should the lachrymal papillaj and ducts have suffered more severely in the first Stage of the disease, the due absorption of the tears does not begin after the subsidence of the inflam- mation, and a dropping of them over the cheek, a siillicidium laclirymariim, frequently continues a long while after the termination of the other symptoms. It depends upon the atony of the lachrymal puncta and ducts, and is very trouble- some in cold wet weather. And when the lachry- mal sac itself has been a good deal inflamed in the first stage of the complaint, a large quantity of mucus collects within it in the second stage, and may be discharged by pressure. Sometimes the subcutaneous abscess actually communicates with the cavity of the sac ; a case, which Beer terms a spurious fistula of the lachrymal sac, tlie matter not being formed in that receptacle itself, but getting into it from the external abscess. As the skin is generally rendered very thin, these abscesses near the bridge of the nose usually burst by several openings. Beer remarks, that it is easy to learn whether the ulceration extends through the lachry- mal sac ; for when this has happened, the slightest pressure upon the superior part of the sac produces a discharge of pus and mucus from the external opening, and, if the lachrymal canals have already recommenced their functions, the dis- charge will also be mixed with tears. (See Mackenxie on Dis. of ike Lachrymal Organs, p. 22.) The quantity of matter which flows out, is like- wise so copious, that it is evident it could not have been all lodged between the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, but must have come partly out of the lachrymal sac. The use of a fine probe will remove any doubt which may be left. (^Beer, Lehre von den Augenkr. b. i. p. 332—335.) On the subject of the causes of this complaint, the preceding author delivers no remark worthy of notice. In speaking of the prognosis, he observes, that when the case is not neglected, nor wrongly treated in its first stage, and the inflammation has not extended to the lachrymal sac, the prognosis is favourable ; for, after the subsidence of the ni- flammation, a temporary atony of the lachrymal puncta and ducts, an imperfect conveyance of the tears into the nose, and of course a slight oozmg ot them over the cheek, most troublesome in cold, wet weather, are the chief inconveniences which remain. But, when the lachrymal sac participates in the inflammation, the prognosis is much less favour- able ; because, when suppuration takes place, ul- ceration is apt to form an opening in the Iront part of the sac, or else, during the second stage, a large quantity of mucus may collect in the sac, and, if not skilfully treated, it frequently ends in a very obstinate blennorrhcea of that part. As Beer observes, this is a case which is often, though quite erroneouslv, named a fistula lachrymalis (b. i.p. 336). ' . , The prognosis is also very favourable in the se. cond stage of the complaint, as long as the sup. puration is restricted to the integuments, and it is characterised by desquamation and scabbing ; but the case is more serious, when a large collection of matter forms, and particularly when the abscess makes its way into the lachrymal sac. In these last circumstances, an obstinate blennorrhcea from the sac often follows, notwithstanding the fistulous sore be treated in the most skilful manner, and sometimes the matter spreads so far around, as to spoil and even annihilate, the lachrj-^mal canals, and cause an irremediable dropping of tears over the cheek, during the rest of the patient's life. {Deer.) The suppuration (says Dr. Mackenzie) may end in the total obliteration of the cavity of the sac. But when the sac is not thus annihilated, and the lachrymal canals are destroyed, it is ne- cessary that the cavity of the sac should be obliter- ated by artificial means ; for otherwise a form of disease will follow, which Beer denominates hydrops sacoi lachrymalis, and Dr. Mackenzie, mucocele. " In most cases, a piece of folded linen, dipped in cold water, and applied to the parts affected, and the administration of gentle doses of sulphate of magnesia, will suffice for the treatment. In severe cases, it will be found necessary, not only to continue the cold applications, and to open the bowels, but to administer an emetic of tartrate of antimony, to purge freely, and even someiimes to take away blood from the arm." {Mackenzie, p. 24.) In the second stage, a warm dry air, and a linen compress, are commended, with the exhibition of diaphoretics. In the two first of these means, I confess, that I should place little or no confidence. When the formation of matter cannot be prevented, poultices are to be used. Beer particularly cautions us not to leave the abscess to burst of itself, but to open it immediately a fluctuation can be felt, so as to prevent an ulcerated opening from taking place in the anterior part of the lachrymal sac. And if the surgeon has not been consulted before such a communication has been established between the sac and subcutaneous abscess, he should avoid all unnecessary disturbance of the parts with probes and syringes, and, at most, only- wash out the abscess once a day with Anel s syringe, filled with luke-wnrm water and a little of the vinous tincture of opium. Beer also recom- mends introducing into the superficial abscess, but not into the sac, a small quantity of lint, dipped in the tincture. If the blennorrhcea of the sac con- tinue, it is to be treated in the way which will be explained in considering the second stage of inflam- mation of that part. Jnjlammation of the Lachrymal Sac.—Accord- ing to Beer, the symptoms of the first stage are as follows:—In the corner of the eye, precisely in the situation of the lachrymal sac, a circumscribed, very hard, tender, swelling arises, of the shape of a bean, producing a lancinating pain when it is touched, and gradually acquiring considerable redness. The absorption and conveyance ot t le tears into the lachrymal sac, and thence into the nose, are completely interrupted; and of course the tears fall over the cheek. The nostril on the aftectcd side is at first very moist, but soon be- comes perfectly dry, the mucous membrane being a good deal afl^ected. As the inflammation also constantly spreads to the orbicular muscle and in-