663 SURGERY. mice of the following Essay on the Ligatures of Arteries, which was sent to the editor of iho Edin. Med. and Suryiad Journal, in 11)05, but was not published until the 1st of April, 11106." (See Obs. on the Ligature, SjO. Lond. 1824.) In justice to Dr. Jones, I sliould mention, that his book was published in 1805. Besides using very small, firm, round threads, instead of large, flat tapes, or cords, as was the custom a few years ago, some modern surgeons have suspected, that nuicli benefit might arise from cutting ott' both portions of the ligature close to the knot, after amputation, the removal of the breast, &c. No one lias insisted so much as Lawrence upon the propriety of examining further the merits of this innovation. If no bad effects ■were to result from leaving so small a particle of extraneous substance in the flesh, as the little bit of silk composing the knot and noose on the ar- terj-, the practice would form a considerable im- provement. The wound would then admit of being brought together at every point; the quantity of extraneims matter in the part would be lessened to almost nothing; the danger of convulsive affec- tions would be reduced in proportion as a serious cause of pain and irritation is diminished; and tlie chance of accomplishing perfect union by tlie tirst intention would be materially increased. Law- rence tried the plan, and did not find any ill con- sequences follow, while many advantages seemed to him to be the result of it. Mr. Crosse, of Nor- wich, however, detailed some observations, which were adverse to the practice; and candour obliges me to state, that, with the exception of cases where the parts must suppurate, and no prospect of union by the first inteiuioil cjn Ije entertained, the plan has now few advocates. (See Amputa- tion, Aneuki.sMj Hemorrhage, and Liga- ture.) Amongst the signal improvements in modern practice, I must not forget the present more ra- tional method of dressing tlie wounds, after capital operations, with light cooling applications, instead of laying on tlie part a farrago of irritating pledgets and plasters, and a cuniberaoine mass of lint, tow, flannel, and other bandages, woollen caps, &c. The fewer the adiiesive strips are, the belter, if they only hold the lips of the wound together. This is all they are intended to do. Whereas, if more than are necessary for tiiis purpose be em- ployed, they do harm by heating the part, and covering the wound so entirely as to prevent the issue of the discharge. The isinglass plaster, introduced into use by Mr. Liston, and so com- monly employed in University College Hospital, I regard also as sometimes possessing advantages over the common adhesive plaster, and likely tlicrefore not to be discontinued. Instead of em- ploying numerous ointments of various compositions, the generality of practitioners find more simplicity equally, if not more, effectual, and in dressing wounds and ulcers, they rarely have occasion to resort to any other applications than adhesive or isinglass plaster, lint, the water dre.-sing, the nitrate of silver, or gently Btimulating lotions of sulphate of zinc or sulphate of copper. Wars, which are unfavourable to most other sciences, are rather conducive to advances in sur- gery. The many new and interesting observa- tions, which IJaron Larrey made in the course of his long and extensive military experience, are a proof of the foregoing remark. Pitard, almost the founder of surgery in France, was a military surgeon. Ambrose Partf and Wiseman collected their most valuable knowledge principally in the service of the armj'. Mr. Hunter himself gained much of his practical information in the same line of life. To IJaron Larrey surgeons are indebted for many highly important observations, rehiting to amputation in cases of gun-shot wounds. In particular, he has adduced a larger and more con- vincing body of evidence than was ever before collected, to prove, that, in gun-shot injuries, the operation of amputation should always be per- formed without the least delay, in every instance in which such operation is judged to be unavoid- able, and the ultimate preservation of the limb either impossible, or beyond the scope of all ra- tional probability. He has established the truth of this most important precept in military surgery by innumerable facts, drawn chiefly from his own ample experience, but partly from the practice of many able colleagues. The great operations of the shoulder-joint and hip-joint amputations, he has executed witli success. The necessity for the former, however, he proves ma.y sometimes be superseded, and the limb be saved, b}' making a suitable incision for the extraction of the splintered portions of the upper part of the humerus. Th's method, which was in many instances done with success in the Peninsular War, and has been also repeatedly performed with the same result by Baron Percy, was, I believe, originally proposed and practised by Boucher. (See Man. de I'Acud. de Chir. t. ii. 4to.) However, it was first more particularly described, and even practised, by INIr. C. White of Manchester. (See his Cases in Snrgeri/.) Mr. Morell also performed it success- fully in York Hospital. (See Med. Chir. Trans. vol. vii.) See Amputation. Amputation at the hip-joint, performed only in the most dreadful cases, because itself the most dreadful operation in surgery, Bui'<m Larrey performed five times, and twice (I believe) with success. It has also been performed by Brown- rigg. Guthrie, Mott, Sir Asiley Cooper, Graefe, Waltlier, Delpech, and others ; and several of the cases terminated in the recovery of the patients. As must necessarily be the case, however, on account of the desperate circumstances under which the operation is performed, and the severity of the operation itself, the examples of recovery bi'ar only a small proportion to the large nuiiiber of deaths known to have followed aniputation at the hip in the many cases in which it has nonr been undertaken. Yet this unfortunate truth should not be exapgeiated into a reason for an unqualified condemnation of tiie practice, which is adopted as the only means affording a chance of saving life. But, as there may be difficulty in deciding whether the patient will have the "best cli.-ince witli, or without the operation, it is to be hofied, that no surgeons will perform it, except under the authority of the united opinion of a board, or consultation of the best-inforined practitioners, whom circumstanci'8 will allow to assemble. It is to be hoped, liUewi.-e, that there is no man in iho profession, so destitute of honour and principle, as to aim at notoriety through the medium of .this terrible operation, and court the opponunitv of doing it merely with this view, instead of being compelled to undertake it by the rciilly desperate