^^"^ SKIN, DISEASES OF. the skin, distinguished by the presence of purple spots consequent on the effusion of blood into the cutaneous tissues. The spots are of four kinds :— Sligmala^ which are mere points or specks ; Pele- cMce, small round spots very much resembling a flea-bite ; Vi/nces, spots Lirger th;in petechia;, and irregular in form ; and Ecchymoscs, distinct extra- vasations of blood, presenting every variety of figure and dimension. Purpura is always asso- ciated with diminished vitiil power, and the san- guine effusion must be regarded as being due to a morbid change both in the blood and in the capillary vessels. The varieties of purpura are four in number, namely:—P. simplex, hcemor- rhngicii, urticans, and senilis. In P. simplex the spots are stigmata, petechias, and vibices. Tliey are chiefly distributed upon the limbs, and are accompanied by constituti(nial symptoms of a mild kind. In P. hcemorrhagica the symptoms are more severe and the disease is more serious. Besides stigmata, petechise, and vibices, there are also ecchvnioses of considerable extent ; and the mucous membrane is affected similarly with the skin ; the gums are spongy and bleed, and there not unlrequently occur haiuiorrhages of consider- able extent fnmi the mucous membrane. This is the form of purpura which has been denominated porphyra 7uiii/ica, and includes both land and sea scurvy. P. urticans indicates the association of tubercular wheals, like those of urticaria with snnple purpura. These elevations are sometimes, but not always, accompanied with severe tingling and itching. When they subside, they leave behind them brownish yellow stains like tiiose of a bruise. Occasionally, we have seen the spas- modic contraction and condensation of tissues ■which give rise to these tubercles extend deeply into a limb, and involve the muscles as well as the superjacent stratum of soft parts. P. senilis is a very harmless form of the complaint, occurring in elderly persons, and chiefly on the forearms: the general health is undisturbed. 8. Developmentai, and Nutritive Af- fections.—Xeroderma is a dry state of the skin, which^it the same time is thin, wrinkled, ill-nourished and rough; the roughness being in part due to altered formation of epidermis, constituting xeroderma ichthyoides or ichthyosis; and partly to the concretion on the surface of altered sebaceous matter, xeroderma saurioides or sauriosis. Ichthyosis is a congenital malformation and malnutritinn of the skin, accompanied with a dry and morbid state of the epidermis and defective junction of tJie £ebiparibus and sudoriparous glands. The skin is far the most part thin, inelastic, and wajiting in subcutaneous and adipose tissue; and its poj-es AM ioiided with epitlielial exuviae. The epidermis is dry; in some parts, as on th« face, beiug roughened by the free edges of e.xfoliating cuticle; in others, as in the flexures of joints, pul- verulent and mealy; in a third situation, as on the convexities of j.oiiits, presenting prominent horuj- scales; and in u fourth, as in tlie internodialregion of the limbs, broken up by a reticulation of rough lines (I. reticulata) into smooth and glossy arete {I. nilida), wliich have been compared to the scales of a fish, or serpents (I. sei peutina). Sauriosis is a xeroderma associated with the accumulation of selxiceous substance on the surface like those of a saurian reptile, and another that of spines; hence a division of sauriosis into two va- rieties, S. squamosa, and S. spinosa, the latter being the so-called porcupine disease. Cacolrophia cutis, is a state of defective nutrition of the skin, commonly of the face, occurring at all periods of life, and marked by thinness and discoloration of integument. 9. HyPERTROPHIC AND ATROPHIC AFFEC- TIONS.—NcBVus hyperlrophicus or common tegu- mentary mole, is a simple enlargement of the skin, from superabundant growth and deterio- rated texture of its tissues ; it is sometimes smooth and without alteration of colour, A^. H. vulgaris; sometimes more or less deeply coloured with pigment, A^. //. jiigmenlosus; and sometimes tufted with hair, N.H.pilosus. Ecphyma, signifying a growth or excrescence of the skin, is a cenus iu- cludiug several varieties, the principal of which are: E. mollusciforme or molluscum simplex, a simple hypertrophy with degeneration of the fibrous tissue of the skin, constituting prominent and sometimes pendulous tumors of various size; E. acrocluirdon, a small pedunculated wart or pouch of the skin, consisting of degenerated fibrous tissue ; E. verruca, or wart, of which there are several varieties ; E. clavus, or corn, also with its varieties; and E. papillosum, a warty state of the skin induced by hypertrophy of the papillee cutis. Dermatolysis or looseiiing of the skin, is a state of hypertrophy of the integument with relaxation of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and giving rise to duplications and folds, of which some remarkable examples are narrated by Alibert. Pachylosis is a thickened state of the skin. Cheloides is an elevated thickening of the skin, commencing in one or more tubercles which are hard and prominent and gradually become blended until they attain a considerable size. They are very slow in their progress, never ulcerate, and sometimes subside and disappear. There are two varieties of Cheloides, namely, C. vera and spuria. C. vera arises from the sound skin without any cause of local irrita- tion; its common seat is over the sterimm, where it forms a flattened mass raised above and over- lapping the adjacent skin and fixed into it around the circumference by hard tubercles which resem- ble roots (C. radiciformis) implanted deeply in the integument. On the shoulders and limbs, two tubercles not unfrequently unite in their growth and form a prominent cylinder (C. cvlindracea) or an oblong prominence, nodulated at one or both ends, and resembling a dumb-bell, C. clavata, Cheloides spuria is a hard tubercular prominence, generally elongated in shape, developed ou the setit of a cicatrix and consisting of an hj-per- trophous growth of the hbrous tissue of the corium, consequeut on ulceration, and not unfrequently following a burn ; hence a very appropriate di- vision of cheloides into idiojiathic and traumatic. Sclerosis is a term for hardening and coudeusatioii of the skill ; the hardening in some instances approaching the densitj- of curtilage. Boucuemia is a state of hypertrophy of ihe integument, in- cluding the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and chiefly affecting the leg ; it is the disease termed by the Arabs, dal lil, or the eleph.ant leg, hence its synonym, elephantiasis Arabum; while another svnonym is derived from its prevalence in Barba- does, namely the Barbadoes leg, and in general in J>f the skin, one while assuming the form of scales j tropical countries, boucnemin tropic-i ; a similar