JOIiNTS, DISEASES OF undiT the gluteal muscles; ihoy may open in this situation or burrow under the fascia lata, and present on the outer aspect of the thigh below the tensor vagina: femoris. Sinuses form in various directions; their situation and course will often- times lead to an accurate diagnosis of the seat and extent of the osseous disease.] Sir Benjamin Brodie recollects no instance of an adult, in whom abscesses had formed, who did not ultimately sink exhausted b}' the liectic symptoms which they induced. Children may recover in this ultimate stage of the disease; but seldom without a complete ankylosis of the joint. (Med. Chir. Trail, vol. vi.) [When the head of the thigh-bone has become dislocated on to the dorsum ilii, a false joint may eventually form, or osseous ankylosis in a more or less faulty position may take place. If the head of the bone continue in the acetabulum without suppuration, osseous ankylosis may ensue with but little shortening of the limb. The ankylosis that generally results, however, is that known as the false kind, which may even permit of very slight motion. Fortunate will be the patient if his disease ter- minate in ankylosis, for more generall}^, as the constitutional powers become exhausted, a tendency to organic disease sets in; the lungs and abdominal viscera become the seat of scrofulous aiTections, and they prove the immediate cause of death. In some cases the patient is suddenly cut off by disease of the brain, which in young subjects is probably of a tubercular character. Such cases are described by Mr. Cnulson and Mr. South. (See Mr. Coul- son's Leclurcs in the Lancet, already referred to.) Treatment of Disease of the Ilip-joint.— This will depend upon the form of the disease, the acuteness of the attack, and the severity of tlie local and constitutional symptoms. Those general principles must be attended to, which guide us in the treatment of inflamed joints, which have been previously considered. Very early treatment is of great importance, as likely to ward oiT suppuration and its consequences, and thus effect a cure; this will consist of proper constitutional treatment, and complete rest of the limb, by means of a suitable well-fitting leather or gutta percha splint. If the case be neglected, the utmost the surgeon can do is to save the life of the patient. In the Arihritio form of the disease, the treat- ment should consist of rest in bed, calomel and opium freely administered, and opiates at night, to prevent the painful startings of the limb. Leeches or cupping-glasses may be applied behind the trochanter, the limb must be supported on pillows, and hot poppy fomentations may be employed. Alter the inflammation is reduced, the joint may be fixed by means of a leather splint or starched bandage. Mr. Erichsen prefers the latter, from its easy application, and from its forming a more secure casing to the limb. It should be commenced from the toes upwards, and after it has sot, a trap may be cut in ,t opposite any part of the joint to which it may be thought necessary to make applications. Ihe patient will require the inhalation of chloro- lorm to undergo the application of this or anv other form of apparatus, {^ea Ericlmn's Art of Surgery, ed. 3, p. 741.) ^ The Femoral or chronic form of disease of the mp-jomt requires a different and less active line 143 of treatment. In such cases, rest and perfect im- mobility, by moans of the starched bandage or leather splint, are indispensable; in conjunction with these, the employment of counter-irritants more particularly the caustic issue, will be attended with great advantage; the issues may readily be applied through traps, cut in the apparatus behind the trochanter, and at the fore part of the joint opposite the pectineus muscle. At the same time a course of moderate alteratives and tonics will be found of advantage. To children, Hyd. cum creta. carb. of soda and rhubarb, with a little quininej may be given twice a day. To adults, the bichlo- ride of mercury, with bark or sarsaparilla, will be found useful. Should strumous disease afterwards appear, cod-liver oil, with the iodides of potassium and iron, may be advantageously substituted. {Erichsen, op. cit.)"] The writings of Hippocrates, Celsus, CebHus Aurelianus, &c., prove that the ancients treated ijie chronic form of the present disease much in the same way as it is treated by the moderns. Forming an eschar, and keeping the sore open; topical bleeding, cupping, fomenting the part, &c., were all proceedings adopted in the earliest periods of surgery. Quibus diuturno dolor (says Hippocrates) iscMa- dico vexatis coxa excidit, iis femur coniabesoit, el daudicunt nisi uranlur. Forming an eschar, or issue, is one of the most efiicacious plans of treat- ing the disease even now known. A caustic issue seems to me more beneficial than a blister. The depression just behind and below the trochanter major is the situation in which surgeons usually make the issue, and the size of the eschar should be_nearly as large as a crown piece. In general, ■ it is necessary to keep the issue open a long time. For the cure of the disease in adults. Sir B, Brodie and Dr. Albers express a preference to caustic issues; but in children, and even in grown- up persons, when the complaint is recent, they agree in thinking blisters capable of aftbrding complete relief. [Mr. Barwell thinks the issue and the moxa cruel remedies, but he recommends the actual cautery as by far the most efficient means of counter-irritation. Its efficacy cannot be too highly extolled, he observes, in the first stage of hip-joint disease, commencing in the bone, and when the patient is not very feeble. It is not only more efficient, but also less painful in its operation than the potassa. (See Barwell on Dis. of Joints., p. 323.) Bonnet recommends placing the limb in its natural position in the second stiige, and keeping it so by means of a particular form of splint to prevent the starting of the limb in its second stage. {Traiti da Thirapeutique des Maladies Ariiculaires p. 416.) Mr. Barwell describes and figures a special splint for this stage of the disease, but wo must refer the reader to his work for a description of it. {Op. cit. p. 327.)] The general health must not be forgotten throughout the treatment of this disease. The diet should be nutritious; the bowels regulated- the skin kept in good action with a llesh brush' and the apartments thoroughly ventilated. A change to the sea-side will be found an advantage as the he;iltii improves. Mr. Coulsou tiiinks that patients derive most benefit from the sea-side, either at the commencement of the disease, or ia the