VOL. II. fluctuation m some parts, and hard nodules in fluid. At first, perhaps, this is limited to passing attacks of uterine colic, marked by pelvic pain and VAGINA, IMPERFORATE. 897 bearing down or expulsive efforts. Vomiting oftei. attends, as in all cases where the uterine fibre is suddenly stretched. These attacks, more or less periodical, are not attended by the expected appear- ance of the menses. Occasionally there is a vicarious discharge of blood in the form of epis- taxis (Pullen). In Pullen's case, one of absence of the vagina, there were marked menstrual mo- limina, but no accumulation of menstrual blood in the uterus or neighbourhood. When an artiticial vagina was made, menstruation took place periodi- cally by this channel, and the epistaxis ceased. Gradually the distress increases. A sense of ful- ness In the pelvis arises j the hypogastrium en- larges ; the abdomen is visibly larger; perhaps pregnancy is suspected ; there is sometimes reten- tion of urine from the pressure of the uterus and vagina, distended with the accumulating menstrual secretion; defaecation is dilBcult, and the digestive function is disturbed; irritative fever, with a sallow skin, and vomiting—the result of absorption of the watery part of the confined fluid—sets in. On examination, a firm, even tumor is felt, rising from the pelvis behind the symphysis pubis, some"^ times as high as, or even higher than, the um- bilicus. The uterus gradually yields under excentric pressure ; as in pregnane}-, or when it contains a growing polypus, it then grows, its muscular walls as well as its cavity enlarging. This process meets to a certain extent the pressure of the accu- mulating fluid, but the contained matters receiving fi-esh increments at every menstrual epoch, after a time require more f-pace; then other compensating processes bring alleviation, and stave off for awhile the critical moment when the strain can no longer be borne; the more watery element of the con- tained fluid is absorbed, and to supplement the im- perfect distension of the uterus, another cavity is formed by the distension of the vagina; and the Fallopian tubes stretching, form further supple- mentary receptacles, and form tumors which can be felt on either side of the uterus, in the iliac fossa;, or in the vaginal pouch. The obstruction to normal menstruation is sometimes compensated by menstrual deviation—that is, by fluxes from the intestines, bladder, nose, skin, &c. The uterus and vaginal cavities are commonly divided by a strait formed by the cervix uteri. This vaginal pouch may be very large, especially if the occlu- sion exists at the vulva, when it may so compress the rectum as to obstruct defajcation (Tuckwell). If the occlusion exists higher up the vagina, a pouch is still formed. And it is remarkable that the vaginal wall undergoes hypertrophy in tlie same way as the uterine wall. In a fatal case. Dr. Sutton (Lo7id. Hasp. Reports, lf)67) found the vagina so much hypertrophied that the walls at the upper part were quite as thick as the uterine parietes. Klob contends that, in cases of obstruction at the vulva, it is the vagina that chiefly or almost exclusively forms the sac, the uterus scarcely contributing. This is certainly not always the case;and it may be doubted whether it is even generally so. The uterus certainly en- largos considerably, and the easily distensible Fallopian tubes become greatly distended, forming a distinct tumor readily felt on cither side, some- times, as Bcrnutz remarks, mistaken for pelvic phlegmons. But generally the uterine orifices of the tubes are expanded. The Fallopian tubes have been found distended even when shut ofl' from the uterine cavity. There is a valuable spe- cmien (described in Tuekwell's paper) in the Kadcliffe museum. Two large pouches exist vaginal and uterine. The uterus was so distended' that its walls were not thicker than those of the bladder. A further stage leads to the escape of blood from the Fallopian tubes at their fimbriated extremities, or through rents into the peritoneum. This event, long ago pointed out by Brodie, hag been amply confirmed by subsequent observers. Ihe blood collecting in the Douglas' pouch consti- tutes retro-uterine haematocele. The common effect of this IS pelvic peritonitis, sometimes fatal a others resulting in segregation of the effused blood by plastic matter; a later stage of which is a process of suppuration or necrosis of the posterior vaginal wall, and possibly discharge of the hsema- tocele and cure. As Bernutz says, and I venture to add my own testimony in support, the fore- going phenomena of obstructed menstrual flow may result from uterine deviations, especially flexions, from spasmodic contraction of the cervix uteri, and, according to my own observation, from congenital narrowing of the os externum uteri associated with a conical vaginal-portion. The symptoms of abdominal shock and peritonitis fol- lowing upon those of retention of menses, indicate the occurrence of effusion of blood from the Fal- lopian tubes into the peritoneum. These sym- ptoms, depending on the same accident, are very liable to follow operations for the discharge of the ntained fluid. The diagnosis of the resultin-. Iiasmatocele may therefore be conveniently dis- cussed here. A tumor is formed, sometimes of considerable size, in the Douglas' sac. Af first this IS soft, fluctuating; it gets harder under co- agulation and the eff^usion of plastic matter around It; a firm tumor may be felt rising above the pubes, even to the umbilicus. The abdominal walls can be made to glide over it. The limit of the tumor may be defined by percussion; inferiorly the tumor sinks into the pelvis. By the vagina we find the tumor pushing forward the roof and posterior wall of this canal, shortening it, and com- pressing it from behind forwards, so that the finger is guided to the os uteri driven forwards and downwards behind the symphysis. The os f,-lt in this position, and a firm rounded mass extend ing behind it, has been mistaken for retroversion of the enlarged womb, and this the more readily because retention of urine has often been an urgent symptom. The diagnosis is made clear by the uterine sound-if it can be used—which runs up behind the symphysis forwards, and its poinb may be felt through the abdominal walls and fun, dus of the uterus, showing that the uterus ia erect or inclined forward, or to one side. The nature of thejetro-uterine tumor is further made manifest by examination by the rectum. And in retrover- sion, if the bladder is first emptied, no tumor ia felt above and behind the pubes. One of the most important characters of blood tumors, and of retro-uterino ha;matocele especially IS the successive modifications they undergo Al- most immediately after its formation, a lucmatocelo IS larger and more distinctly fluctuating. In a fe\\f days It has a gummy consistence; later still we find