SKIN, DISEASES OF, 579 milium seu grutuin, and molluscum contiigiosum. Tlie exsiulata are acute and chronic, the former being contagious and non-contagious. The acute contagious exsudata are, morbilli, scarlatina, vari- ola, and vaccinia ; the acute non-contagious, ery- themata polyraorpha, roseola, urticaria, dermatitis including erysipelas, furunculus, anthrax, and farcinoraa; and phlj'ct£enosen, for example, herpes, miliaria, sudamina, and pemphigus acutus. The chronic exsudata comprehend the squamous, pruri- ginous, acneform, pustulous, and pemphigous affec- tions. Htemorrliagim is devoted to purpura. Hypertrophice embraces excessive production of the epidermis, pigment, corium, follicles, and appen dages; Atrophies, diminished production of the same structures. Neophismata includes abnormal growths of normal structures, for example, con dyloma, molluscum simplex, acne rosacea, lupus, cicatrices, cheloid, callus, fatty tissue, vascular tis- sue, cholesteatomatous substance, osseous tissue, and melanotic substance. The pseudo-plasmaia include the abnormal tissues of cancer and tuber- cle. Ulceralio7ies are idiopathic and symptomatic; Neuroses, hyperaesthesia, anassthesia, and dermato- spasmus ; while the ParasiticcB are divided into two groups, dermatophyta, comprehending favus, alopecia, and sycosis ; and dermatozoa, pediculi, acarus folliculorum, and sarcoptes hominis. Having in view the wants of the practitioner as well as those of the student, we have thought it desirable to make another effort in the direction of a natural classification. We have taken as our groundwork the clinical history of cutaneous dis- eases, and selected as our governing idea the most striking features of the individual diseases, whether in their nature, pathological, etiological, or physio logical ; and upon this plan, we have collected all the known diseases of the skin into tiveniy two groups of morbid affections, as follows :—1, ecze- matous ; 2, erythematous ; 3, bullous ; 4, furun- cular ; 5, nervous ; 6, vascular ; 7, hsemic; 8, de velopmental and nutritive ; 9, hypertrophic and atrophic ; 10, alphous ; 11, strumous ; 12, car- cinomatous ; 13, zymotic; 14, syphilitic; 15, leprous ; 16, pigmentary ; 17, phytodermic ; 18, ungual ; 19, hair-system ; 20, sebiparous system ; 21, sudoriparous system; and 22, traumatic. Investigated with attention, it will be found that these twenty-two groups may be naturally reduced to the eight following heads, namely : dis- eases of, 1, the general structure of the derma ; 2, special structure of the derma ; 3, development, nutrition, and growth ; 4, diathesis ; 5, blood- poison ; 6, epidermis ; 7, follicular apparatus ; and 8, injury. Thus, under the head o( dis- eases of the general structure of the derma, may be ranged the first four groups : eczematous, erythe- matous, bullous, and furuncuiar. Under the head of diseases of the special structure of the derma, including nerves, vessels, and the contents of the vessels, we should place : nervous, vascular and htemic affections ; the head of development, nutrition, and growth, embraces the two groups, developmental and nutritive, and hypertrophic and atrophic affections ; the diseases of diathesis include the three groups, alphous, strumous, and carci- nomatous ; the diseases of blood-poisoning, also three groups, namely, zymotic, syphilitic, and leprous ; then follow, as diseases of the epider- mis: pigmentary, phytodermic and ungual affec- tions ; diseases of the follicles of the skin, the three groups comprising the hair system, sebi- parous system, and sudoriparous system ; and eighthly and lastly, diseases induced by injury or traumatic affections. In the first group, namely, eczematous affections, the individual diseases are: eczema, psoriasis, pityriasis, lichen, strophulus, impetigo, scabies, and gutta rosacea. In the second group, erytlie- matoiis affections, are comprised : erythema, ery- sipelas, urticaria, and roseola. The third group, bullous affections, consists of herpes, miliaria, and pemphigus. The fourth, furuncuiar affections, contains, ecthyma, furunculus, hordeolum, anthrax, pustula maligna, and pustula aleppensis. The fifth, nervous affections, is devoted to hyperaesthesia, anaesthesia, pruritus, and prm-igo. The sixth group, vascular affections, includes nsevus, and hypertro- phia venarum. The seventh group, hcBmic affec- tions, has only one representative, purpura. The eighth group, developmental nutritivesSec\.\ons, consists of xeroderma, ichthyosis, sauriosis, and cachexia cutis. The ninth, hypertrophic and a<rop/«'c affections, contains, naevus hypertrophicus, ecphyma, verruca, clavus, dermatolysis, pachylosis, cheloides, sclerosis, boucnemia, and atrophia cutis. In the tenth group, alplious affections, alphos stands alone. The eleventh group, strumous af- fections, is devoted to scrofuloderma and lupus. The twelfth group, carcinomatous affections, has a solitary member, carcinoma cutis. The thir- teenth group, zymotic affections, includes rubeola, scarlatina, variola, varicella, vaccinia, equinia, and frambnesia. The fourteenth group, syphilitic affec- tions, is devoted to syphiloderma. The fifteenth, leprous affections, to elephantiasis Grsecorum, and morphoea. The sixteenth group, pigmentary affec- tions, contains melanopathia, xanthopathia, len- tigo, chloasma, cyanopathia and leucopathia. The seventeenth group,phytodermic affections, embraces the nosophyta, or plant-parasitic diseases. The eighteenth group, ungual affections, contains the diseases of nutrition of the nails and onychia. The nineteenth group, affections of the hair-system, exhibits a goodly list, namely, hirsuties, alopecia, calvities, canities, fragilitas crinium, tinea, morbi sebacei, favus, kerion, and sycosis. The twentieth group, sebiparous affections, is also large, for ex- ample: hypertrophy epidermic and epithelial, car- cmoma folliculi, stearrhoea,asteatode8, allosteatodes, comedones, tumores sebipari, tumores encystici| tubercula sebacea, and acne. The twenty-first group, sudoriparous affections, includes idrosis, ani- drosis, osmidrosis, chroinidrosis, and hsemidrosis. And the twenty-second group, traumatic affections^ contains animal parasitic diseases, combustio and gelatio. lu this order we proceed to delineate the sepa- rate affections which constitute the great body of cutaneous diseases, beginning with eczema as at once the most common of diseases of the skin and as representing typically the first of our family groups. 1. EczKMATous Affkctions.—Eczema is the type of the vcsiculai of WiUnn, the vesicles being minute, generally confluent, arising on a more or less inflamed and swollen base, covering a greater or less extent of surface, from a mere local patch to an entire limb, and giving issue, when broken, to a copious exudation of viscous and colourless lymph, which dries up into a brownish-yellow and uneven scab. But, accord- r r 2