LITHOTOMY Although Scarpa thinks the lateral operation un- likely to answer when the cilculus exceeds tivcnty iineH in its lesser diameter, he considers the high operation also useless in such a case, and even Iktal; because, according to his observations, when the stone is very large the bladder and kidneys are almost always too much diseased for the patient to recover. {Osseit-azioni sul Taylio lietlo Vesicate, |). 3 and 48, 4to. Pavia, J823.) He has only met with two cases to the contrary. However, in another place, ill considering the advantages and disadvan- tages of the high operation as compared with that pTformed through the rectum, in cases where the stone is too large to be extracted by the perineum, lie gives his decided preference to the former(p.47). 'J'lie high operation lie also considers the only method by which women can be cured without leaving them .itHicted with an incontinence of mine (p. 49). However, after the facts related by Sir Astley Cooper, Mr. Thomas, and others (Lond. Med. C/tir. Trans.), and Dr. Hamilton {Edin.Med. Chir. Trans. yo\. ii. p. 117), few surgeons would think of having recourse to so dangerous au operation, in preference to the simple and safe plan of dilating the meatus urinarius. In December 1818, Mr. Kirb}-, of Dublin, per- formed the high operation for the extraction of an elastic gum catheter, which had slipped into the bladder through the canula of a trocar, with which paracentesis had been performed. No contrivance was found necessary for lifting up the fundus of the bladder. The puncture already made was enlarged, and, after the operation was finished, a catheter was placed in the wound, but was withdrawn on the fourth daj', as the urine passed out by the side of it. The case terminated well. (See Kirhy's CWs, p.£)2, &c. 8vo. Dublin, 1819.) In an example in which the calculus was lodged in the fundus of a little boy's bladder, aged six years. Dr. Ballingall undertook the high operation, in the expectation that the stone might have been more easily ex- tracted above the pubis, than from the perineum. Great difficulties were experienced, however, in getting it out, and the peritoneal inflammation which ensued had a fatal termination. The stone measured more than two inches in one diameter, and one inch and a half in the other, while the space be- tween the tuberosities of the ischium was only two and a half inches. (See Edin. Med. Cliir. Trans. vol. ii.) Lithotom)-, in whatever way performed, when the stone is encysted (a circumstance that unavoidably lengthens the operation and leads to great disturbance of the parts) is generally un- successful; and I do not, therefore, consider this example as more against the high than the lateral opemtion, which might have been attended, as Dr. Ballingall observes, with even greater difficulties. The high operation has been twice performed By my friend Mr. Copland Hutchinson. It was first performed in the United States by Dr. Gibson, Professor of Surgery in the University of Penn- sylvania, and subsequently by Dr. M'Lellan and others. It was preferred on account of the great size of the calculi (see lieese, in American edition oj Uus Dwlio7iary). Whoever is desirous of ex- amining further the merits of the high operation should refer to the accounts of it recently published by Dr. Souberbielle, whose experience in it has been more considerable, and success greater, than those of any other surgeon who has ever cive'n the general preference to this form of lithotomy VOL. n. •' ■ 209 [Ihe high operation is not now often per- formed in this country, and is rarely, we believe, performed in France, or other parts of Europe, at the present day. It should not, however, be com- pletely neglected, for circumstances may occur to render iU employment necessary. The great ad- vantage of this method is that it enables the sur- geon to extract very large calculi without the dangerous incisions, and still more dangerous laceration of parts, which are inevitable, when an attempt is made to remove very large calculi from the bladder by the lateral operation. It is also said to be a valuable resource in cases where the stone is impacted in the neck of the bladder, or is partially encysted in the floor of that organ. On the other hand, although it may be admitted that the largest calculi can be readily ex- tracted by the high operation, many reasons may be adduced to show, what indeed is confirmed by statistics, that the extraction cannot be effected without danger. To perform the high operation with the best chance of success, the bUdder should be raised above the pubis, so as to present a portion of its anterior wall uncovered by the peritoneum; but, as nearly all cases of large calculi are attended by a thickenintr of the bladder, and a degree of irritability, which render it most difficult to make the organ rise above the level of the pubis, one of the impor- tant conditions of the operation cannot in all cases be attained. Hence the frequent occurrence of peritonitis, by which so many patients are car- ried off. The lateral operation, however, may be imprac- ticable from some peculiarity of the case under treatment. Thus, the outlet of the pelvis may be obstructed by a tumour, or it may be impossible to place the patient in the proper position, or to pass a staff into the bladder. In cases of this kind, the surgeon must remove the calculus either through the rectum or above the pubis, and will we believe act wisely in selecting the supra-pubic' method The mortality from the operation is hieh • but It should be remembered that a great number of the cases to which this method has been applied were of a very serious nature, and regarded as beyond the domain of the lateral operation. One of the most recent cases of success in this country has been revealed by Dr. Humphrv surgeon to the Addenbrooke Hospital, Cambridge' who has published it, and collected an account of 104 operations performed by various other surgeons Of these 104 cases, 31 were fafcil, givine a mor* tality of 1 in 3-3.5, or 29-8 per cent. The subject of Dr. Humphry's case was a bov 14 years of age, who had suffered from the usu-il symptoms of stone for seven years. On examina tion, it was thought that the calculus was too l iree to admit of its being extracted by the lateral or bi-lateral methods, and Dr. Hiimphry therefore decided on employing the high operation. This was performed without any great difficultv although neither the sonde-iVdard nor injection of the bladder was had recourse to. On the contrary the bladder was emptied by a catheter previous to the commencement of the operation, with the view of diminishing the chance of infi'ltration of urine into the cellular tissue. The bladder was found to be deeply seated behind the pubis; its dis- tance from the surface being considerable * Wh exposed, the stone could be felt through itspaiiete"