TREPHINE. m tho skull. Larre3' sliowed Iiim one example of tliis; mid another specimen is referred to, as being in Dr. Physick's Museum, at Pliiladelpliia. (See Velpeau, de V Oper. dii Tnpun. p. 262—2t;4.) 1 will conclude this article with the fullowing extract from Dr. Reese's American ed. of this Dictionary. " It is a high source of gratification to he able to record, that in this countrj' (the United States), the trephine is now much more seldom used than formerly. But a few years ago, on a man being stunned by a blow or a fall, to any considerable extent, almost aiij' neighbouring physician would apply the trephine without hesitation, and the fa- cility witli wliich this operation can be performed offers no small temptation to the mere operator, especially as there is seldom any risk of life, and always a gain in reputation among the multitude. It is now very generally viewed as it ought to be, as a dernier ressort in such cases, and the use of it is not countenanced, unless the symptoms of com- pression by depressed bone, or extravasated bl ^od, are altogether unequivocal ; and a consultation with the best surgeons is always premised. " I have seen scores of persons, who would have formerly been trephined, without even a 'trial by jurj-,' recovered from coma, paralysis, and con- vulsions, justlj'attributable to compression on the brain, by very large and copious bleedings, aided by cathartics and stimulating frictions and cataplasms to the extremities. " Still, however, there will be a sufficiency of instances, imperiously requiring the use of the trephine, to render it necessary that every practi- tioner should be conversant with the instrument and all the circumstances connected with its use. Indeed, some of tlie most deplorable cases to which surgical assistance is ever rendered, are occasionally met with among the examples in which the trephine becomes indispensihle. " In the year 1819,1 assisted Dr. Henry William Ducachet, then a practitioner in the city of Balti- more, in the performance of this operation on a woman who had received several blows on tlie head with an axe, from a brutal husb.ind. We could discover no depression of bone, and yet the coma, stertor, hemiplegia, and other evidences of com- pression, resisted all our depletion, and, on the third day after the violence,we determined to applv tho trephine, being sustained by judicious counsel in our opinion, that there nmst be extensive extra- vasation of blood beneath the cranium. On re- moving the circular piece of bone, with the largest crown of the instrument, a coagulum was found e.xtending over tlie left hemisphere of the brain, exterior to the dura mater. This being removed, and only a mitigation of the symptoms following, the obvious distension of the dura mater itself pointed out the existence of still more extended mischief. Wo therefore divided the dura mater with a probe-pointed bistoury, for the space of half an inch, when coagulntod blood to an immense extent forced itself tlirough the opening, After Washing out tlie cavity by warm water thrown in with a syringe, we were delighted to find the entire removal of the symptoms instantaneously result. Our patient spoke for the first time, asked for water, seemed as though awoke from an ordinary sleep, the stertor ceased, the dilatation of the pupil and ii'.'uiiiilegia were removed, and the most sanguine bopes were entertained of her recovery. " I shall never forget the painful acuteness of our disappointment, when in a few hours we found nil these dangerous symptoms return in a still more aggravated form, discovering to us the mortifying truth, that thour/h the operaiion had succeeded, yet ojirpatient would die; for, although we had remo'ved the coagul.i, we could not stop the bleeding vessel. " In ihe post mortem examination, the temporal bone was found fractured, and a spiculum of bone had pierced the meningeal artery, which had not ceased to pour out its blood, and hence coagula were found to fill the whole space of the hemi- cranium, above and below the dura mater. I have preserved the skull in my cabinet of morbid pre- parations, and the point at which the fracture of the internal table pierced the great artery of the dura mater, is distinctly visible in the depression which marks its course, which is in this case deeper than ordinary. It was exhibited on the trial of the murderer, and was highly important in a medico- legal point of view, since it fully satisfied the court, council, and jury, that her death was occasioned bj"^ the blows, and that the injury was altogether irreparable. This was clear from the fact, that the onl}^ blows which had wounded the scalp were on the top of the head, and on the middle of the os parietale. The fracture and consequent rupture of the vessel was low down on the temple, where no external wound was found, and two inches from the point at which the trephine was applied, guided as it was by the external injur}'. " Since that time, I have applied the trephine and Key's saw for the removal of a large portion of the frontal bone, which had become carious from svphilis involving nearly the whole forehead. The extensive suppuration which had entered the frontal sinus, and even passed into the cavity of the skull, rendered this operation necessary, in the opinion of the consultatiiin ; the man having become idiotic from the disturbance of the cerebrum, and being a burden to himself and family, from frequent epilepsj'. " I applied the crown of the instrument four times, removing all the diseased portion of the bone, and only once entering through the skull, the caries being in the other parts confined to the external table, and the diploe filled with a fetid pus which had not sufficient egress, and b}' consequence was involving the bone still more extensivelj' in the specific morbid action. A large number of sni.nller pieces of the cranium were removed with llev's saw, and by the forceps. A very considerable quantity of pus was found upon the dura mater, at the point at which the caries had entered the cavity, which was discharged through the opening made by the trephine, and the cavity of the head washed out with warm water. Notwithstanding the specific character of the disease, the almost hopeless extent to which it had progressed, and the extreme emaciation which had been superin- duced by neglect and mismanagement, this pa- tient entirely recovered, and has ever since the time of the operation (1822) been actively emplo3'ed as a mechanic ; never having had epilepsy since, nor any intellectunl deficiency, although this had become apparent for nioutlis before. I saw him when last in Baltimore ni perfect health." The render may find on account of the operation of trcpannini; or trepiiiniug in every system of sur- gery; but he sl)Ou:d particularly consult the writuig-3