produces its usual effects on the textures con- cerned, with so little of its usual symptoms as not to be recognized, without very unusual care and discernment, during life {A/iso?i,7iisupra),in conse- quence either of extreme debility, or of the concur- rence of some other disease, which, by impairing the sensibility of the paticnt,masks the local symptoms. A second mode of classification is founded on the fact that some forms of inflammation can be gene- rally produced at will and are of daily occurrence, hence they are called common ; whilst others either are of rarer occurrence, or require the operation of some special train of causes, or some particular kind of constitution to operate on. Thus we speak of the inflammation following a common blow or cut, as common, whilst the inflammation which follows certain definite morbific causes, and especially to animal poisons of the zymotic order, is called specific. Again, the inflammation pro- duced in certain constitutions may be specific. Thus a strain which would produce common in- flammation in an ordinary person may provoke gout in a person having that diathesis or disposition. The line between common and specific inflamma- tion is not always easy to draw ; and the most correct form of statement would be, that every difl^erent cause produces a different variety ol inflammation, in every variety of constitution. In many cases, as was said in the last section, we assume the existence of a specific cause to account fir the existence of a specific form of inflammation. We assume that the cause which produces inflam- mation of Peyer's patches in the small intestine differs from that which produces dysentery ; sloughing sore throat from diphtherite ; erythema nodosum from eczema ; and so on of the rest. As for the classification according to local effects, as the adhesive, siippurative, ulcerative, and gangrenous, of Hunter, to which he was compelled to add, as being in some respects pecu- liar, the oedemalous, the erysipelatous, and tlie ear- buncidar {Hunter s Works, vol. 3, p. 310), and to which he might have added the leprous, eczema- tous, diphtheritic, &c. &c., it is evident that it is descriptive partly of certain stages of the disease, partly of differences in phenomena considered in connection with causes. With this mode is closely adjoined the idea of classification according to the final cause or pur- pose in the animal economy which it is supposed that the inflammation is intended to effect. Mr. James's classification is of this kind. He first divides inflammations into two great classes : ac- cording as the exudation assumes the limited form of coagulable lymph and confines itself within certain limits, or, on the contrary, tends to Bpread. His orders are founded on the degree of vital importance of the organ affected: the genera, on the disposition of the inflammation to a particular mode of termination. Thus of spreading inflam- mations one genus is supposed to resolve, as the catarrhal inflammation of mncous membranes and mumps ; a second to s\ippurate, as the cysts of abscesses, boils, and whitlows ; a third either to resolve or suppurate, as erysipelas, phlebitis and its congeners ; a fourth to ulcerate and slough, as carbuncle, hospital gangrene, cancrum oris ; and a fifth to cause rapid mortification, as the inflaui- niation from fevers, from obstructed circulation, &c.: and this disposition is so strong, that it is Very difficult in many cases to procure any MATION. 43 other termination. It may happen, however, that there shall be more than one mode in which the inflammation is disposed to terminate, as in either resolution, or suppuration, or spliacelus, &c. (James, On Inflammation. Loud. 1032.) This classification is not now in use. The prac- tical fact that remains is the tendency of certain inflammations in proportion to their unhealthiness to generate exudations that break down into liquid, and hence to spread themselves and the disease along the surface of membranes or through the areolar tissue. To this classification belongs the division of inflammation into healthy and un- healthy, conservative and destructive, of which we have before spoken (p. 10). Yet another basis of classification has been framed according to the tissue involved—a doc- trine known to'and refuted by Hunter, supported by Carmichael Smyth {Med. Communications, 1790, vol. ii. p. 168), and wrongly ascribed to Bichat. The tissues in question are five, and the doctrine supposes that the inflammation of each is essen- tially different. The first is phlegmonous inflam- mation, which affects the cellular membrane, includ- ing the parenchyma of the several viscera ; the second is inflammation of serous membranes ; the. third, of mucous membranes ; the fourth, which is named erysipelatous, is of the skin ; and the fifth, termed rheumatic, belongs to fibrous struc- tur-e. It is perfectly true that " even in its acute, and still more in its chronic form, inflammation fre- quently spreads extensively, lasts long, and pro- duces decided lesions in one texture without in the slightest degree affecting others in its immediate neighbourhood." {Alison, in Cyc. of Prac. Med., Art. Hist, of Med.) Most true it is that whatever tissue is involved will behave in a manner proper to itself. Every tissue has certain modes of feeling. The inflam- mation of the skin has not the same pain that has inflammation of the bones. A dense tissue like tendon cannot swell nor show redness to the same extent as one that is loose and vascular. Hence there is no doubt that inflammation is modified by tissue. But whatever may be the influence of texture on the coiirse of the disease, it cannot be admitted as the basis of classification ; for, as Mr. James truly says, " there is not the smallest question that different forms of inflammation are liable to occur in the same tissue ; that the same kiiul of inflamma- tion is met with in different tissues; na}', more, that the same inflammation shall bo transferred from one tissue to another." {James, tit supra, p. 26/.) And Hunter puts the objection even more de- finitily. "If the doctrine were true," he says, " we should soon be made acquainted with all the difteient inflammations in the same person, at the same time, and even in the same wound. For instance, in an amputation of a leg, where we cut through skin, cSllular membrane, muscle, tendon, periosteum, bone, and mairow, the skin should give us the inflammation of its kind, the cellular membrane of its kind, the muscles of theirs, tho tendons of theirs, the periosteum, bone, marrow &.C., of theirs ; but we find it is the same inflam- mation in them all." {Hunter, On the Blood cap ii. sec. 7 ; Wnvks, vol. 3, p. 313.) It has been held indeed that rheumatic inflam- mation is inflammation of fibrous tissue, and that inflammation of fibrous tissue is therefore rheuma-