RECTUM, DISEASES OF. 524 supported by the T bandage. The disease, how- ever, was too obstinate to be cured by this treat- ment. Nor could Mr. Hej' succeed in reducing the bowel when it came down. " Allhougli (says he) the prolapsed part of the intestine consisted of the whole inferior extremity of the rectum, and ■was of considerable bulk, yet the impediment to reduction did not arise from the stricture of the spliincter ani, for I could introduce my finger with ease during the procidentia; but it seemed to arise from the relaxed state of the lowest part of the in- testine, and of the cellular membrane, which con- nects it with the surrounding parts. My attempt proved vain, as to its immediate object, yet it sug- gested an idea which led to a perfect cure of this obstinate disorder. The relaxed state of the part, which came down at every evacuation, and the want of sufficient stricture in the sphincter ani, satisfied me that it was impossible to afford any effectual relief to my patient, unless I could bring about a more firm adhesion to the surrounding cel- lular membrane, and increase the proper action of the sphincter. Nothing seemed so likely to effect these purposes as the removal of the pendulous flap, and the other protuberances which surrounded the anus." This operation was performed on the 13th of November. On the 15th the gut pro- truded, and did not gradually retire as it used to do. Mr. Hey attempted to procure ease by means of opiates and fomentations, and avoided immedi- ately trying to reduce the prolapsed part. How- ever, the prolapsus continued so long that the ap- pearance of tlie part began to alter, and, therefore, on the IGth he made an attempt at reduction, and succeeded with great ease. However, as a good deal of pain in the hypogastrium was still com- plained of, the patient was bled in the evening, and gently purged with the oleum ricini. These means gave relief; but, as some pain in tlie belly yet con- tinued, an opiate was given. A low diet, linseed tea, lac amygdalaj, &c. were ordered, and a little of the oleum ricini every morning, or every other morning, with an opiate after a stool had been pro- cured. " By proceeding in this manner for some days, regular stools were procured, without any permanent inconvenience. My patient recovered very well, and was freed from this distressing complaint, which had afflicted him so many years," (See Hefs Pruct. Obs. p. 403. &c. ed. 2.) This, and some other cases, which this gentle- man has related, convincingly exemplify the neces- sity of paying attention to the removal of redundant skin, excrescences, hamorrhoids, and other tumors, situated about the lower part of tiie rectum, in cases of prolapsus ani; for, unless this object be accomplished, the disease may resist every other treatment. Mr. Howship prefers tlie ligature for the extirpation of the protuberances, but heartily commends the principle of the treatment proposed by Mr. Hey. {Pract. Obs. on Diseases of the Lower Intestines, p. 163. ed. 3.) An elderly gentleman, whom I know, was troubled for many years with a prolapsus ani, which used to come on several times a week, sometimes at tiie privy, and sometimes on other occasions. Several of the first surgeons were consulted, who failed in all'ording permanent benefit, because they omitted to extir- pate some ha;morrhoidal excrescences, situated at the lower part of the rectum; for, when these were afterwards removed, the prolapsus ani entirely disappeared. Dupuy tren finding, as Hey did, that the excision of piles, which so often accompany prolapsus ani, commonly prevented the return of the latter com- plaint, was led to cut off more or less considerable portions of the internal membrane of the rectum. However, as in one case a profuse hceraorrhage took place, and, in another, a tedious suppuration, he subsequently adopted the plan of removing a certain number of the projecting folds, which may be seen converging from the circumference to the margin of the anus. The skin at the margin of the anus is thinner, and of a different colour from that of other parts; and contains numerous mu- cous crypts, which secrete an oily matter of a peculiar smelh It forms also prominent folds separated by fissures, which converge from the circumference of the margin to the centre of the anus. These folds extend up within the anus, and are the more numerous and prominent the closer the latter opening is; being effaced, when it is di- lated. Their use is to facilitate such dilatation, and promote the evacuation of the faeces. Beyond the skin is a stratum of fibro-cellular tissue, erectile tissue, as Cruveilhier calls it; higher up, the ex- ternal sphincter; and still further up, the internal sphincter. (See Dupuytien, Cliniquc Chir. t. i. p. 161.) The method, practised by this distin- guished surgeon, consisted in taking hold of some of these converging folds of skin, one after another, with a pair of broad-bladed dissecting forceps, and cutting them away in succession with a pair of scissors curved laterally. The excision was ex- tended quite up to the anus, and even a few lines within it, if the relaxation were considerable, by the degree of which the number of folds to be removed is also determined ; two or tliree being taken away on each side in moderate cases, and a larger number where the relaxation is very great. (See Dupuytren, in Clinque Chir. t. i. p. 162.) I have practised this operation very successfully in several cases. The principle, on virhich it answers, is precisely what Hey aud Du- puytren have explained; the anus being immo- derately dilatable, the surgeon cuts away a portion of one of its textures, and the rest becoming more consolidated, the tendency to too much dilatation is obviated. The contraction of the cicatrices, and the adhesion of the textures together, induced by inflammation, have the principal share in bring- ing about this desirable change. Dupuytren, in his first method, used to cut away the mucous membrane itself; in the last, only the folds of skin at the margin of the anus are removed. A woman had had a constant pro- lapsus for ten years ; when she was in the upright posture, the swelling was ten inches in one dia- meter, and seven in the other ; it hindered her from walking, and continually discharged a mix- ture of blood and mucus. Dupuytren removed five or six of the projecting folds from without in- • wards. The patient, who used to have more than twenty stools a day, now went six days without one ; on the seventh, however, an abundant eva- cuation took place, and the prolapsus never re- turned. Only simple dressings, as lint wetted with cold water, and a T bandaje, are needed. (See Journ. Universel des Sciences Mid. No. 81. Sept. 1822.) Although Dupnytren's operation bears some resemblance to Hey's, and is founded on the same principle, the French do not admit that what tlie