SCROFULA, indeed it actually is), that, in scrofula, "there ahviiys is more or less disorder of the digestive or- gans, and primaiily of no other important function,^' I do not see that we advance one step nearer the truth; because, as tiie same cause is generally assigned, by gentlemen attached to this theory, for n vast number of other cases, we still remain in the dark, as to the circumstances, which make so many complaints of different kinds spring from one and the same cause. These circumstances, though buried in silence, are still the mystery—still the secret, which is desired; and, if it be answered, that the effect will only happen in particular con- stitutions, when we are brought back at once to the point, from which we first started, viz. that scrofula is a disease depending upou some unknown peculiarity of constitution, congenital or acquired, and capable of being excited into action by va- rious causes, as climate, mode of living, &c. However, lest I may not have attached sufficient importance to the doctrine of gastric disorder being the cause of scrofula, I feel pleasure in re- ferring for the arguments in its support, to the writ- ings of Mr. Abernethy, Dr. Carmichael, and Mr. Lloyd, whose sentiments appear highly commend- able, so far as they tend to teach surgeons, rather to place confidence in means calculated to improve the health in general, as the most likely mode of benefiting scrofulous patients, than to encourage foolish dreams about new specifics for the dis- temper. Thus far, I can follow these gentlemen safely; but no farther. However, perhaps, none of the believers in the effect of disorder of the digestive organs mean to say, that such disorder is any thing uioie than one of the many exciting causes of scrofula ; and, with this qualification, their theory may, or may not be correct. It is the doctrine of Alibert; and indeed of nearly all writers: "ce sont lea vices de la puissance di- gestive, qui prdpareut de loin les scrofules. Rien n'infiue davantage sur leur d^veloppement que la mauvaise quality des alimens," &c. {Nusol. Na- turelle, p. 449 )—" Ajoutez a cette cause le s^jour dans les habitations malsaines." But, every ex- planation, even of exciting causes, remains unsa- tisfactory, so long as we find children living in the same air, under the same roof, and feeding and sleeping together, and clothed also exactly alike, yet only one or two of them become scrofulous, while all the rest continue perfectly free of the disease. Here, then, we are again compelled to return to predisposition, constitution, diathesis, and a congenital tendency to the complaint, as a solu- tion of the difficult}-. In short, then, respecting the etiology of scrofula, little is known, except that certain constitutions probably have a congenital disposition to the disease; that such disposition may be increased, or dnuinished, by the operation of climate, mode of life, age, &c.; and that irri- tations of a thousand kinds may excite the disease into action, when the system is predisposed to it, by inexplicable causes. That climate has great influence cannot be doubted, when it is reflected, that the inhabitants of certain countries, in which the temperature is invariably warm, never suffer from scrofula. It is noticed by Sir A. Cooper, that the occurrence of scrofula is much promoted by climates, in which the change from cold to heat, and from heat to moibiure, is particularly frequmit, as is the case in this island. But though colli and moist climates have this eflxjct, he re- marks, that persons living in the extremes of heat, or cold, are not affected. The disease, he says, is even arrested by cold and heat, uncombined with a damp atmosphere. On the other hand, nu- merous children who come from the East or West Indies to this countrj', fall a prey to scrofula. He has also known some individuals from the South- Sea Islands die here of the same disease. The fact of the great influence of the climate on scrofula is equally proved by the effect of the weather and seasons, for, it is a common and a true remark, that in a mild dry atmosphere, and in summer- time, the health of scrofulous persons generally improves, and, whatever local complaints they may have, get better, while on the contrary their dis- order in winter is more difficult of relief, and either continues stationary, or becomes worse again. Hence, as Sir A. Cooper has justly remarked, the exact value of any proposed remedy for scrofula cannot be estimated, without reference to the time of year when it is tried. There can also be no doubt, that, with age, the disposition to scrofula diminishes ; for, children, much afflicted while young, frequently get quite well when they ap- proach the adult state; and, if a pers(m remain perfectly free from every mark of a scrofulous con- stitution, till the age of twenty-five, he may be considered as nearly out of all danger of the disease. According to the calculations of Dr. Alison, scrofulous diseases are much more frequent in the inhabitants of great towns, than in the agricul- tural population of any climate. This seems to him an unquestionable fact, and one that confirms the truth of the connection of scrofula with debili- tating causes. (See Edinb. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 383.) It seems to M. Lepelletier, that the privation of solar light creates a tendency to scrofula ; but, though it occasions a pale complexion, a flaccidity of fibre, aud a bloated look, these states may not ex- actly constitute the conditions implied by the term scrofula. Independently of the redundance of white tissues and colourless fluids, conjectured by Stokes, Jolly, and others, to form one of the chief characters of a scrofulous constitution, and at the same time one of the chiel anatomical circum- stances of scrofula, there is no doubt, that the com- position of the fluids of scrofulous individuals is more or less a deviation from what it ought to be ; and especially that some of them contain an ex- iiaordinar}' proportion of the phosphate and car- bonate of lime, and chloruret of soda ; and that these same principles frequently enter copiously into the matter of scrofulous tubercles. M. Lubil- lardiere ascertained that the milk of a cow,affected with tubercles, contains seven times as much phos- phate of lime as the milk of a healthy cow. Treatment op Scrofula. As the nature and treatment of particular forms of scrofulous disease are described in other articles of this work, I shall here limit my observations to the general treatment of the disorder. Fnmi the remarks delivered in the foregoing columns, it is evident, that many children are born with a constitution and organisation predisposing to the attack of scrofula; nuy, that some pass into the world with tubercles, or the germs of them already formed ; but all children are liable to become scrofulous under the influence of various conditions