154 JOINTS, EXCISION OF. A splint is to bo applied immediately after tUe operation. Of this, various contrivances have been suggested. Mr. Fergusson recommends that the extension should be made from the opposite thigh, round the upper part of which, a laced socket is fixed, to which the band is attached. Mr. Chris- topher Heath has invented a hammock slung in a four-legged stand, which supports the back and thighs, the head and legs projecting beyond and lodged upon cushions. A hole is present in the region of the buttocks for cleanliness and dressing the wound. Mr. Price employs a splint, the lower part of which can be depressed, adducted, or ab- ducted by means of screws at the steel bracket.] Excision of the Knee Jonzi.—[Although this operation was first performed by Mr. Filkin of Northwich, in 1762, the merit of originating the operation is certainly due to Mr. Henry Park of Liverpool, who published the first recorded case in 1782. Park's first operation was performed in 1781, and his second in 1789. It was not until after the publication of Mr. Park's pamphlet, that Mr. Filkin claimed priority. In 1792 M. Moreau was the first to try this operation in France, on a boy, with success. He repeated the operation on another patient, but not with the same good for- tune, In 1811 his son performed it with good results. In England the operation remained in abeyance until 1823, when it was resorted to by Sir Philip Ciampton. Mr. Syme had recourse to it in 1830, and his operation made the sixth done in Britain. For twenty years it remained unat- tempted, until it was revived in 1850 by Mr. Fergusson, In the meantime, in France and Germany it had been performed once by Mulder, four times by Fricke, twice by Textor, and once by Jaegar, and by Roux. In the table of cases given by Mr. Butcher in his first Memoir on Excision of the Knee Joint, operated on within the first epoch, of 19 cases, 8 were cures, and the remain- der failures. {Dub. Quar. Jour, of Med. Science, Feb. 1855.) , ri, A reference to the carefully collected and reliabJe statistics of Mr. Butcher in his first and second Memoirs on this operation, afi'ords all the in- formation to be desired upon it, up to the year 1856 inclusive. Altogether he enumerates 82 cases. In May 1859 Mr. P. C. Price had collected the particulars of 78 additional cases makmg a total of 160. (See Contributions to tlie Surgery of Diseased Joints, loitli especial reference to the Operation of Exdsion. p. 36.) AH these wore done in Britain. Two years later, in 1861, Mr. Price had collected the particulars of 235 cases ni which excision of the knee had been perfomed in Great Britain and Ireland and Jersey. Ot this number, 144 were cured with good and useful limbs ; SO died from the immediate eifects of the operation, indifferent treatment and other causes ; 33 were submitted to amputation at various periods after excision ; and in 8 cases the correct result was not determined. (See Mr. Frices Manuscript Prize Essay on Excision oj ilte Ance, in the Library of the Royal College of burgeons. 18G1. folio.) , , ,.. We will observe here, that the mortality af ei exci.ion of the knee joint has been stated by the writings of many very careful surgeons to be much less than that of amputation tlirougli the thigh, and this is a circumstance that must not be overlooked, in determining upon the choice of the operation to be adopted. Excision should have the preference when disease more or less extensive is confined to the articulation itself, or if there is faulty ankylosis from old disease or injury, which has rendered useless a limb, in an otherwise healthy and not old person. Mr. T. Holmes thinks it unlikely that this oper- ation will ever come into such favour as that on the elbow ; still, though it has, he remarks, been vehemently decried, and although its general adop- tion has possibly been equally retarded by its having ibeen vehemently overpraised, it seems likely to hold a permanent place among the re- sources of operative surgerj', for the treatment of appropriate cases. " The acceptance which this operation has met with is not due to its lower rate of mortality. It has been clearly shown, by the statistics collected by Dr. Hodges, that, in general practice the mor- tality has been about one-third ; a far higher aver- age than that after amputation at the lower third of the thigh, for chronic disease of the kiiee ; and, from what I can learn of the statistics of metro- politan hospital practice, I believe the same rate of mortality has prevailed. But this only imper- fectly represents the ill-success of the operation, for if to those who have died we add those whose limbs have been amputated, or have remained useless, we shall find that the failures, after the operation, at least equal the successes. In spite of this known fact, however, it seems to be the grovving conviction of hospital surgeons that the operation ought to be introduced into practice. This conclusion must rest upon other considera- tions than those of the mere mortality after ampu- tation and excision. It is not very probable that excision of the knee will ever be less fatal than amputation."—System of Surgery, vol. 3. p. 818. The following is the mode of performing excision in the knee as adopted by the reviewer of the operation, Mr. Fergusson :—" An incision between three and four inches long should be made on either side of the joint, opposite the lateral ligaments, and a third should be carried across the fore-part, so as to unite the whole, like the letter H. The lateral incision should belong more to the thigh than to the leg, and that in front should be across the lower end of the patella. This bone should now be detached by dividing the textures around it, close to its margins, and with the soft parts should then be dissected upwards, to a sufficient extent to permit a thorough examination of the diseased joint. To facilitate this, as well as the future stages of the operation, the lateral and crucial liga- ments should be divided : the saw, forceps, and gouge must be used according to circumstances. It will in most instances be requisite to apply the saw, and the forceps will not be so useful here as at the elbow, although they will be of service in smoothing points which are left untouched by the saw. The diseased portion of the femur, usually limited to the extent of the articular surface, may be first removed, and the head of the tibia, as also that of the fibula, should it be involved in the affection. In using the knife in the posterior part of the joint, considerable care is required in dividing tlie crucial ligaments, as there is nothing between the instrume..t and the poplitial vessels but the posterior ligament and some cellular tex- ture: in applying the saw, too, care is required; yet