708 TESTICLE, UISE :ASES of THE. affection sooner or later disappears under treatment iind rest, although the patient will sometimes beg that castration he practised as a means of getting rid of his suffering. In some cases sea-bathing or travelling have been found of great service, and instances are recorded where marriage has effected a cure. Irritable Testis is a more common affection than neuralgia, and is not unfrequently met with, to a slight extent, about the period of puberty, when the testes, like the mammary glands, often become abnormally sensitive. It sometimes comes on after inflammation of the testicle or of the epididymis, but its most frequent cause is excessive sexual in- dulgence in weakly irritable persons, and particu- larly so if from thickening abont the duct, or from any other cause, the passage of the semen be hin- dered. The testis in this affection becomes ex- tremely sensitive, so that manipulation is impossi- ble, and even the contact of the dress cannot be borne : the pain extends sometimes along the course of the cord, and is much increased by the erect posture, by exercise, or by want of support to the scrotum, which is generally much relaxed. Occa- sionallj"- both organs will be affected : one usually being more sensitive than the other. Commonly no alteration in the gland can be detected, al- though one spot may be more painful than the rest: if this morbid condition have existed for some time a slight fulness of the organ may per- haps be felt, and the spermatic veins may be en- larged. So long as the patient remains at restin the recumbent posture with the testicles supported, he is free from pain, hut it recurs with movement. The complaint is often very tedious and long re- sists treatment, the patient becoming very de- pressed and anxious as to the result, so that he demands removal of the organ. In those cases where castration has been performed nothing ab- normal was found in the gland except a little congestion of its vessels : and the pain has been known to return in the cord. Operation therefore should never be practised. The treatment should , be directed to remove, if possible, the cause of the affection, and to improve the general health. Leeches will afford relief more frequently than in neuralgia of the testis, especially if the organ be swollen. Lotions or ointments containing bella- donna, opium, or aconite, will be found useful: and the local application of cold has somet'mes proved of great service. Change of scene, amuse- ment, and occupation, so as to divert the mind of the patient from his malady, are also necessary.] [Atropliy of the Testicle may occur from a great number of causes. The organ gradually diminishes in size but retains its flat oval shape : it loses its firmness and becomes soft and flabby, the scro- tum also is relaxed ; the peculiar sensation nor- mally experienced on pressure ceases to be felt, and there is a gradual loss of sexual power, often even of desire, which is persistent: sometimes the ■wasting is extreme, and a small nodule attached to the cord will alone represent the body of the gland. On examining an atrophied testicle, its substance is pale and anaemic : the secreting structure has more or less completely disappeared, and the iihrunlcen organ is made up chiefly of the septa between the lobules, with perhaps a little fibrous structure. The epididymis is seldom involved even ■when the rest of the organ is q^uite wasted. This condition comeg on slowly with age, and occurs also in lingering exhausting diseases, such as phthisis, but it is rarely so complete as when it results from injury or disease of the organ. A violent blow on the testicle will cause it to waste and destroy its function: an injury to the head and brain will produce the same effect. Larrey, Hennen, and others relate many instances of this : it lias been observed also to follow an injury to the spine, although more rarely. {Cur- ling, op. cit., p. 105.)] Atrophy of the testicle was remarked by Baron Larrey to occur with remarkable frequency after the deep sabre-cuts of the back of the neck, re- ceived by the French soldiers in Eg3'pt, in their contests with the Turks. [Disease of the brain, apoplexj^ paralysis, have all been followed by a loss of power and withering of the gland. Compression of the organ, or of the cord, by a tumour, a hydrocele, or a truss, has also been attended by the same result. A remarkable case is related by M. Johert de Lamballe, which occurred in the practice of M. Roux, where con- traction of the cicatrix after sloughing of the scro- tum, from a gun-shot wound, caused atrophy of the testicles.] The pressure of a large hernial swelling has often been known to occasion atrophj' of the testi- cle ; and the strong compression of the spermatic cord by a truss would appear to be capable of pro- ducing the sajne consequence. Varicocele occasionally leads to wasting of the testis ; and sometimes the obliteration of the prin- cipal spermatic veins with a ligature, or forceps, adopted for the cure of a varicocele, has been fol- lowed by this change in the testicle. [Occlusion of the spermatic artery produces a similar effect upon the gland, and this circumstance has induced M. Manoir, of Geneva, to adopt a method of treatment for chronic enlargement of the testicle, and even for cancer of the organ, by tj'- ing the spermatic artery through an incision made parallel with the cord. Wardrop relates a case where there was wasting of both testes, and after death both spermatic arteries were found to be obliterated by an abdominal aneurism.] Acute inflammation of the testicle from gonor- rhcea; chronic enlargement of it from other causes; and especially scrofulous disease of the organ, may, in the end, lead to atrophy of it: in the first case, possibly in consequence of the vas deferens he- coming sometimes permanently obstructed ; but in the other two examples, no doubt, from dis- organisation of the testicle itself. Obliteration of the vas deferens has been observed to be attended with a dwindling away of the testicle; a circum- stance which would be expected from the recollec- tion of the functions of the organ being necessarily destroyed by such obliteration. [It is very seldom that the epididymis is closed sufficiently to prevent the flow of semen, but when this occurs the testicle becomes useless, and loss of function and atrophy follow. Inflammation is by far the most frequent cause of wasting of the testicle, and when this occurs the normal shape of the gland is generally altered; its outline becomes irregular and uneven, but its bulk and consistence are not so nuich reduced as when shrinking occurs from other causes. In tliese cases the glandular tissue will have disap- peared or a mere trace of it only be left, whilst