560 SCROFULA, fomentiitions and poultices of sea-water. With respect to regimen, some recommend a milk and vegetable diet ; others animal food and feniicnted liquors. Sir A. Cooper, in particular, wh^ re- gards the disease as connected with congenital debility, strongly recommends a nutritious diet of animal food, in preference to one of vegetables. Mr. White maintains, that tlie preceding plans of treatment are not, in general, efficaciuus, though, in some instances, they may prove useful. "In early affections of the lymphatic glands, and from the want of a pure air, and proper exercise, where children are delicate and irritable, a change of situation to the sea-side, together with bathing, •when they have acquired some strength, must be exceedingly proper; and, in gross pletlioric sub- jects, who have diseased lymphatics, from improper feeding, and want of necessary exercise, a journey to the sea-coast may be very useful, particularly if the salt-water is drank oftefi, and in a sufficient quantity to become purgative. This, with the no- velty of their situation, which may naturally pro- duce an increase of exercise, might answer every expectation; but these are the kind of cases that, with a very little attention, are easily cured." {W/die on the Struma, ed. 3, p. 104.) Tlie conclusion, to which Mr. Wliite's remarks upon this part of the subject tend, is, that sea- bathing only deserves praise as a preventive, and in the early stages of the disease. He particularly condemns cold bathing, for poor, weakly, debili- tated children, whose thin visages, enlarged bel- lies, and frequent tickling cough, sufficiently indi- cate diseased viscera : such do not recover their natural warmth, after cold-bathing, for hours; and their subsequent head-ache, livid lips, and pale countenance, are sufficient marks of its impropriety. (P. 107.) Dr. Cullen entertained a very favourable opinion of cold-bathing, since he affirms, that he had seen scrofulous diseases more benefited by it than any other remedy. {First Lines of Physio, vol. iv.) " Cold-bathing, especially cold sea-bathing (says Mr. Russell), is a remedy universally employed in scrofula, and I believe with great advantage in many cases ; for it not only appears to im- prove the patient's general health and strength, but likewise to promote the detumescence of en- larged glands, and the resolution of indolent swel- lings in thtt joints, even after they have attained a considerable size, and have existed for a great length of time. But, in order that cold-bathing may be practised with safety and advantage, the constitution must have vigour to sustain the shock of immersion without inconvenience. If the im- mersion be succeeded by a general glow over the surface of the bod}', and the patient feels cheerful, and has a keen appetite, we may conclude that the cold-bath agrees with him ; but if he shivers on coming out of the water, continues chill, and becomes drowsy, we may be assured that the prac- tice of cold-bathing does no good, and had better be omitted. "In estimating the comparative merit of cold- bathing and warm-bathing, in the cure of scro- lulous complaints, my own experience, together with the result of diiferent conversations on the subject with some of the most judicious prac- titiiiners of my acquaintance, would lead me to bestow much more commendation on the effects of warm-bathing. I should not even be inclined to circumscribe the practice to cases of emaciation and debility, since, from observation, I am fully satisfied with regard to the beneficial effects of the warm-bath to patients of plethoric constitutions, who were much affected with swelled scrofulouB glands. Several of those instances occurred in young women, about the prime of lif-, who were in all respects healthy and vigorous, abating tlie swellings of the glands, and those symptoms of dis- tress which were connected wiih fulness of blood. " The sensation of the warm-bath is exceedingly grateful to most patients, and the practice is uni- versally safe. It may be employed at all seasons of the year, and in all weather, without danger or inconvenience; the risk of suffering from exposure to cold, immediately after immersion in the warm- bath, having been much magnified by prejudice. There is not even any good reason to believe in the existence of such a risk. The precautions, however, which are employed to avert it, are per- fectly innocent; and provided they do not impose any unnecessary and incommoding restraints upon the practice, may be encouraged, so far as to re- lieve the patient's mind from uneasiness and groundless apprehensions. " It requires many weeks, and sometimes se- veral months, to ascertain the full effects of warm- bathing in relieving scrofulous complaints; but, as the practice is not attended with any incon- venience, nor followed by any bad consequence, there can be no reason to intermit the course, till the trial is completely satisfactory; and I am con- vinced, that the practice of warm-bathing, in cases of scrofula, will be more universally adopted, after the knowledge of its beneficial effects is more widely diffused." (See Russell on Scrofula.) Nothing can be more satisfactory (says Pro- fessor Thomson) than the evidence, which is on record, of the efficacy of the muriate of soda, as it exists in sea-water. In reading this, one only- wonders how so efficaciotis a remedy should ever have fallen into neglect. (P. 196.) In a sub- sequent passage, however, the same gentleman evinces only a limited confidence in this means of relief. " Local sea-bathing, both cold and warm, has often appeared to be of use in procuring the resolution of scrofulous swellings. The tempera- ture of the bath must always be varied according to circumstances, according to the season of the year, the strength and habits of the patient, and the particular effect which the bath seems to pro- duce. It is at all times difficult to distinguish between the effects immediately arising from the application of salt-water to the body, and those which arise from the increased warmth of tem- perature in the bathing seasons of the year; from the exercise which patients going to sea-bathing generally t.ake in the open air; from the change of situation and amusements; and, among the poorer classes, from the more nourishing diet and exemption from labour, in which they are usually permitted to indulge, during their residing at sea- bathing quarters. It is not improbable that those living on the sea-coast, who become affected with scrofula, would, for similar reasons, derive equal benefit by going from the sea-coast to reside for a time in the interior of the country." (See 7/iom- son's Lectures, Syc. 203. -^04.) A still later writer declares his belief, that cold sea-bathing has no Kj^ecifc potver over the disease. {Lloi/d on