914 VENEREAL DISEASE. allusion to many loial complaints of the genitfils, warts, discharges, ulcers, pustules, &c,, sometimeB clearly ascribed to imiiure coition, but no dis- tinct reference to any constitutional symptoms. " Surely," says he, " 1 may be allowed to say, that if there is any historical fact that can be said to be proved, it is that of the origin of syphilis being referrible to the latter years of the fifteenth century ; for I cannot understand, otherwise, why, at that precise period, we all at once hear of ulcers on the parts of generation in both sexes, followed speedily by excruciating nocturnal pains, by cor- roding ulcers over the whole body, by affections of the throat and nose, and very frequently by death; when not one word that can be construed into any similar affection is to be met with distinctly stated by any writer before that period." {J. Bacot, in Med. Gazette, vol. ii. p. 100.) But, while this writer will not admit the truth of the existence ol the venereal disease in times of antiquity, he allows that a disorder resembling gonorrhoea has been known from the remotest periods of history. Although many considerations lead me to coin cide with Hunter, Sprengel, Pearson, and Bacot in rejecting the common history of syphilis as fabulous, I mean that account which refers its origin to America, or the French army in Italy, it does not appear to me that any utility would be likely to result from agitating this question in modern times ; because, if it be true, as the most candid and intelligent surgeons of the present day generally acknowledge, that they cannot precisely define what the venereal disease is, nor always point out the exact circumstances in which it differs from some other anomalous complaints, even when the cases are before their eyes, how can such discrimination be attempted from a mere review of old descriptions, not accompanied with the advantage of a view of the living patients themselves? But, so far as the nature of the venereal disease has been unravelled, and it is allowable to judge from such comparisons, I may be permitted to remark that, in degree of seventy, acuteness of symptoms, rapidity of propagation, and extent and quickness of fatality, no forms of disease now ever conjectured to be venereal, bear the least resemblance to the destructive malady with which the army before Naples was afflicted at the close of the fifteenth century; nor will any ignorance of the uses of mercury, as will be pre- sently noticed, explain differences so strongly marked. With reference to the contagious dis- order which scourged a great part of Europe at the close of the fifteenth century, there is a decree of the parliament of Paris, dated 1496, in which the disease is mentioned to have been then preva- lent in that city two years ; consequentl)-, it was known there in 1494 ; yet the conquest "f Naples by Charles the Eighth was not effectea till 495. It is clear, therefore, that the disease here alluded to could not have been derived from America. It appears to have been communicated from one person to another by the mere touch, residence in the same chamber, &c. ; and, in fact, unless some other mode of propagation, besides coition, be supposed, its extf iision throughout Europe in two years would imply a depravity of manners quite extraordinary, and beyond all credibility. Another fact is, that whatever'the disordermight be it was not of long continuance ; and Guacardiui the his- torian, who wrote a few years after its breaking out, assures us that it had already become much milder, and undergone of itself a change into kinds different from the first. [The editor is already committed to the opinion (^Lectures on Syphilis, in the Lancet, in the year 1841), that the venereal disease had existed for centuries prior to the siege of Naples, not only in South America, but in all parts of the world wher- ever promiscuous sexual intercourse, unrestrained by religion or by the customs of society, was carried to great excess; that it was first generated sponta- neously, and that could we destroy the whole of the existing virus, it would again appear under similar circumstances. He is persuaded that the discovery made at this period consisted simply in the recog- nition of a peculiar animal poison as the cause cf various symptoms affecting different tissues of the human body, at considerable intervals of time, which symptoms had not previously been known to have any relation to each other. That the medical men of that day should be mis- taken as to the existence or not of a disease of an entirely new character, would at first sight appear an impossibility. But the instant it is admitted that the picture they represented to themselves of the horrible and destructive nature of this malady, all the symptoms of which they considered equally contagious, was not only very incorrect, but indeed resembled as a whole no disease which had existed previous to or since their time, it will no longer appear an idle question to examine how far they might have been'misled as to the previous exist- ence of the milder set of s3'mptoms, which are uovr recognised as referrible to the venereal poison act- ii.g either primarily or secondarily on the human system. r i, j- The general impression of the nature of the dis- ease, on its first discovery, may be judged of by the public ordinances in reference to those infected by it, both in Paris and in Edinburgh. In the Anele of the Parliament of Paris, dated March, 1496, it was decreed that all strangers infected with this malady were to leave Paris in twenty- four hours, under pain of being hanged, tour sous were to be given to each of them as they passed the gates of Paris. The inhabitants them- selves labouring under this disease were forbidaen to leave the house, under penalty of the same capital punishment. All intercourse with them was also forbidden : persons disobeying this latter mtemict were to be sent to prison, or to be expelled irom the city. James IV., king of Scotland, in 149/^ issued a proclamation by which all those infected with the disease were expelled from the <=' ^"^-^ were sent to the island of Inch Keith, where pro- visions were to be supplied to them p2J^^;„ vided for their health. Any person dis^Jej^g this ordinance was to be burnt on the cheek wun the marking-iron. ,.,. -ot-.a. Amongst the earliest writers »" J;,j„3 m^n{Trad. dePustulis) writes - ''f „ passionis et detestatio ejus maxnna, ut •'O'"'"^;'^ civili conversatione ^epai^ntur saltern quoad c«ra sint ;"and ^Laur.Phrimusde MorhoGaL c^^V-^)^ _" Pauperes hocmalo laborantcs «P'-'"'')f"'"^': hominuin conversatione, tanquam P"'"'^;^ j^. daver derelicti a medicis (qui se "« f «f ^ ^^'i, mittcre in cuiam), habitabant in am e 3,^^^ .^^ That the disease was not ^ea ^ J^'^^ cannot symptoms, or in its degree "{^"'^"^i.eellus Cu- have better authority than that ol Jviiu