234 " LITHOTOMY vided during the first incision; andj this was not unlikely to happen when they were made in nearly a straight direction. We avoid now the accident during this stage by lateralising the inci- sions. It was long ago remarked by Deschamps, that the rectum is sometimes so enlarged and di- lated in old people that it overlaps the prostate to a considerable degree. Here the gut may be inj'U'ed while the surgeon is opening the inem- branous portion of the urethra; but in this as well as in other cases, the accident is best avoided by not raising the handle of the knife too much, and by keeping the blade above the index finger of the left hand, while the same finger is used to depress the rectum and put it out of the way. I have seen the rectum wounded in three or four instances, but no serious consequences were the result. A wound of the bowel, occurring, as it does, close to the sphincter, does not appear to Mr Key to be a matter of serious moment. From the manner in which the bladder of very young children ascends into the pelvis, it is neces- sary to employ some caution in making the internal incision so as to avoid the gut. Dupuytren recom- mends it to be directed in an imaginary hne, drawn from the umbilicus to the tuberosity of the isclnum. Primary hemorrhage arising from the division of some considerable vessel during the incisions, whether external or internal, is unquestionably a rare accident in the hands of British operators. Mr. Listen says upon this subject: " Out of above one hundred patients on whom I have performed the lateral operation of lithotomy, only one, an aged man, suffered in consequence of ha;morrhage, and in him the artery of the bulb was untouched; but the branches of the hccmorrhoidals were loaded with earthy matter, and incapable of contracting or retracting.. {Prao. Surg. 2nd ed. p. 448. London, 1838.) Boyer, on the other hand, considers hajmor rhage as one of the most frequent accidents of litho- tomy; and M. Begin calculates that one out of every four deaths after the lateral operation is occasioned by hsemorrhage. • ^ ■ ^ It is difficult to determine questions of this kind by statistics, because very few surgeons have re- corded, in an accurate manner, the causes of death after the operations performed or observed by them, while our hospital records are nearly equally defi- cient. The writer has, however, collected ninety cases of death observed in series, and of these no less than eleven were occasioned byhaimorrhagc— a circumstance which shows that the accident may occur, not only in a considerable number of cases, but with such severity as to cause death m a con- siderable proportion to the whole number of causes l''rom the data now alluded to, it would appear that one in every eight deaths after lithotomy is occa- sioned byha;morrhage,but this includes secondary as well as primary bleeding. The latter, however, has been observed with more or less seventy dur- ing'the first as well as the second incisions, and may be considered as an accident, whenever it arises immediately from the division of an impor- tant vessel. Varieties in the origin or course ot the arteries are the most frequent cause ot the accident; yet it cannot always be attributed to them. The arteries of the perineum arc derived from the internal pudic, the principal branches o which iire the hajraorrhoidal arteries, the superhcial artery of -the perineum, the transverse artery, and the artery of the bulb. Any of these branches. or the trunk of the pudic artery itself, may be di- vided during the operation. The accident some- times arises from the irregular direction or extent of the incisions, but much more frequently, as has been said, from irregularities of the perineal arteries. Division of the artery of the bulb may occur when the first incision is made too high. The late Mr. Iley and Mr. Skey are of opinion that this artery is nearly always divided during the lateral operation. On the other hand, if the inci- sion be prolonged too much downwards, the super- ficial hajmorrhoidals may be wounded. Finally, the superficial artery of the perineum may be im- plicated, because in some subjects it runs too near the median line. The trunk of the pudic artery itself may be divided when the incision is lateralised too much, and its lower angle made to terminate very close to the ramus of the ischium. This accident has happened in the hands of the very best surgeons; yet we think, with M. Blandin and many other iinatomists, that it is impossible for such an accident to occur unless some irregu- larity disturbs the normal relation of parts at the floor of the pelvis. The trunk of the internal pudic artery is closely bound down to the ramus of the ischium by a layer of dense fascia, and is nearly an inch and a half from the margin of the anus ; nor does it begin to detach itself from the bone until near its terminal division. Under ordinary circumstances, then, I am of opinion that the trunk of the in- ternal pudic cannot be wounded during the lateral operation. The accident, however, has occuiTeJ,and to the masters of our art. Deschamps relates how Dcsault cut the internal pudic with Hawkins's gorget. The same misadventure has happened to M. Roux, to Dr. Physick, to Sir C. Bell, Sir IC. Home, and twice to Klein in Germany. {Cunl- son, LitUoLrily and Lilkotomy, p. '23"2.) ' ^ Happening in the hands of such men, it is not unreasonable to refer this accident to arte- rial anomalies rather than to neglect or want of skill. But the anomalies now alluded to arc themselves subject to fixed laws and occur within certain limits only, and hence it may be useful to notice them somewhat in detail. The trunk of the internal pudic artery bound down by fascia against the ramus of the isclnum lies more than half an inch out of the way of the knife in the lateral operation. But in some cases the trunk of the vessel is not closely applied on the bone ; it begins to ascend towards the median line almost as soon as it leaves the level ol the tuber ischii. Mr. Coote, of St. Bartholomew s Hospital, has recorded a very remaikahle example of this kind of deviation. As soon as the internal pudic re entered the pelvis it passed over to the rectum, and ascended along the gut towards the triangular ligament, lying exactly m the track of the knife during lithotomy. In several cases, especially in the male subject, the internal pudic, instead of passing out ol he pelvis, descends along the inferior surface ot tiie bladder and crosses over the prosUite to be dis- tributed to the penis. (Grev,,, Umet,es of the Arterial SusUm. Dublin, 1830, p. . The transverse artery of the penneum is occa- sionally double, and hence increased htemorrhage may arise.