TALIPES. G71 their representations; but, as T have already re- marked, sutures are still rather too much used, and something is yet necessary for the abolition of a certain uiwvarrantcd habit of having recourse to them witliQUt real necessits-. Nothing will tend to produce this desirable change so effectually, as the perusal of every argument against their em- ployment. 1 tind it exceedingly difficult to lay down any fixed principles for the guidance of the surgeon, in respect to when he ought, and when he ought not, to use sutures. Perhaps, sutures should be made use of for all cuts and wounds which occur in parts of the body subject to an unusual degree of motion, such as would be apt to derange the operation of bandages, sticking-plaster, and compresses. Hence the pro- prietj-of using the twisted suture for the hare-lip. Sutures are probably, for the most part, advan- tageous in all wounds of the abdomen, of a certain length, and attended with hazard of a protrusion of the bowels. In this situation, the continual motion and action of the abdominal muscles in respiration, besides the tendency of the viscera to protrude, may be a reason in favour of the use of sutures. When two fresh-cut surfaces positively cannot be brought into contact by sticking-plaister, band- ages, the observance of a proper posture, &c., there can be no doubt of the advantages of using sutures, if they will answer the purpose. Some •wounds made for the cure of certain fistulous com- munications between the vagina and bladder, or others for the cure of similar affections in the perineum, afford instances of cases to which I alhide. Sutures are generally resorted to after the operation of removing a diseased breast, castration, and operations for strangulated hernia. The reason for using sutures in the scrotum arises from the difficulty of keeping the edges of the wound in contact, owing to the great quantity and loose- ness of the part. Sutures are likewise employed after flap and circular amputations. Here they are serviceable in giving a degree of steadiness to the flap, not easily to be obtained at first by other means. When used in such cases, however, tliey should be withdrawn as soon as the isinglass or ad- hesive plaister affords sufficient support to the flap. SYMPATHETIC BUBO. See Buno. SYNCHYSIS (from o-uyx"'^, to confound). The term synchvsi.s sometimes denotes the con- fusion of the humours of the eye, occasioned by blows, and attended with a rupture of the internal membranes and capsules. Beer understands, by the expression, a dissolution of the vitreous hu- mour, or the state of it in which its consistence is entirely destroyed. (See Lehre von den Augenkr, b. ii. p. 2.57.) SYNECHIA. Synechi/E, or adhesions of the iris to other parts, are divided into anterior and posterior synechia). 1st, Anterior—meaning ad- hesions of the iris to the cornea, or to textures occupying its place. These, if occurring without perforation of the cornea, are often observed near the insertion of the iris, and are the result of the prolonged contact of the swollen and inflamed iris with the cornea. Swelling of the inflamed cornea facilitates these synechia;. 2nd, Posterior Sync- c/tice—or adhesions of the iris to the parts situated behind its uveal surface. Tlieae varieties are by far the most frequent. To see them thoroughly, atropia should be applied, and lateral illumination used. Circular Posterior Synechias exist if the margin of the entire pupil is adherent to the capsule of the crystiillinc lens, the area of the pupil being free from effusion, or nearly so. Total Ppsterior Synecliia signifies that the entire posterior surface of the iris is adherent to the capsule of the crystalline lens. SYNICESIS of the pupil, signifies its closure by a more or less opaque membrane, which is con- tinuous with the surface of the iris. SYNTHESIS (from ahu, together, and 0eVij, position, situation). A generic term, formerly used in the scliools of surgery, and comprehending every operation b\' which parts that had been di- vided were reunited. SYPHILIS. Lues Venerea. The venereal disease. (See Venereal Dise.-isb.) [TALIPES (from tahts, the ankle, and pes, a foot)—probably supposed to mean any distortion of the foot taking place from the ankle-joint; but as the transverse tarsal joint, mechanically considered as a centre of motion in the production both of varus and valgus, is at least of equal importance with the ankle-joint, the term is badly chosen. Dr. Little, On Cluh-fout and Analogous Distortions, p. 2, by W. J. Little, M.D. (London, 1839), pro- posed to employ the term talipes (previously applied to varus only) as a generic one, to include all the varieties of foot-deformity produced by muscular contraction, and his example has been generally- followed. Talipes, therefore, may now be consi- dered as including all the congenital and non-oon- genital distortions of the feet. Deformities of the foot occur both as congenital and non-congenital affections, but the latter are by far the more numerous—the proportion, according to the statistics of the Royal Orthopaedic Hospital, being as 7 to 10. Modern science has proved that all these afi^ec- tions, i.e. the congenital and non-congenital dis- tortions of the foot, are essentially and intimately allied ; that the deformities occurring in intra- uterine life do not depend upon arrest of develop- ment, or malformation of the bones, as formerly supposed, though of course exceptional cases with malformation do occur; but that, as a general rule, like the deformities we so frequently see produced after birth, they depend essentially upon altera- tions in the relative position of the bones, in con- sequence of irregular muscular action, position, pressure, &c. However difficult it may be to de- termine primary causes, and to say in any given case, seen long after the production of the deformity (for it must be remembered that many of the con- genital cases occur at a very early period of uterine life), which of several possible causes operated most in the production of the deformity; still, the existing conditions, when the deformity is fully developed at the period of birth in congenital cases, have boon satisfactorily determined by pathological investig.a- tions, and upon this knowledge we have been led to a scientific and successful ireatmentof such cases as were previously considered to be incurable. So long as the older surgeons were satisfied with the supposed cause of club-foot residing in arrest of development, or malformation of the bones, they were deterred from venturing upon its cure. Partial success under mechanical treatment, empirically adopted, first threw doubt on the cor- rectness of this theory, and subsequent dissection especially by Scarpa, who in 1803 published an