1 I OVARIOTOMY. to a consideration of the operation for the removal iif one or both ovaries, it appears desirable (in order that we may properly determine in what cases of diseased ovaries their removal can be justifiable or necessary) to briefly consider other methods of treatment which may be resorted to when ovarian cysts or tumours have attained so large a size that the comfort and general health of the patient is seriously interfered with, and where ordinary medical or palliative treatment has proved of little avail. In such cases the average duration of life certainly does not exceed two years, and these years are generally a period of great discomfort, possibly of extreme and hopeless sutfering. Those cases in which, under expectant treatment or after repeated tappings, life has been prolonged for many years, are rare exceptions to the above rule. Given their due weight they lead to some important practical conclusions, which may be summed up as follows :— I. So long as an ovarian tumor does not ma- terially interfere with the appeai'ance, prospects, or comfort of the patient ; so long as no injurious pressure is exercised by it on the organs of the pelvis, abdomen, and chest ; so long as heart and lungs, digestive organs, kidneys, bladder, and lectum perform their functions without much disturbance ; so long as there is no great emacia- tion, no very wearying pain, no distressing dif- ficulty in locomotion ; or so long as any such injurious influence can be counteracted by ordinary medical care, the patient should be left to that care, undisturbed by any surgical treatment. II. All specific medical treatment, by iodine or bromine, or mercury, or lime, or potass, or by diuretics or other medicines used with a hope of checlving the growth of ovarian cysts and tumors, or of leading to absorption of the fluid they contain, having been proved by ample experience to be absolutely worthless, no medical treatment should be adopted which can possibly injure the general health of a patient, or place her in a less favourable position than she otherwise would be for such surgical treatment as may ultimately be called for. I. III. When, however, an ovarian tumor deforms a patient, or materially impedes locomotion, or in- terferes with the free action of heart or lungs, or obstructs the circulation through the large veins in the abdomen, or causes more or less constant and distressing pain, loss of rest, or emaciation, or leads to derangements of the digestive organs, or makes injurious pressure on the contents of the pelvi.-', surgical aid is required. IV. The nature and connections of the tumor must guide us in our selection of one or the other of the following methods :— 1. Simple tapping through the abdominal walls. 2. Simple tapping through the vagina. 3. Simple tapping through the rectum. 4. Tapping followed by pressure. a. Tapping and the formation of a permanent subcutaneous opening in the cyst-wall. 6. Tapping and the formation of a permanent opening through the skin, vagina, or rectum. 7. Incision. 8. Tapping followed by injection of iodine. 9. Ovariiitomy. 1. Tappiny throicyh the abdominal wall is in- dicated when a cyst situated in the abdomen is large and single, or when there is more than 413 one large cyst It is useless when the tumor is composed of a number of small cysts, or of semi- solid structure. In single thin-walled cysts, which contain a clear, limpid fluid of low specific gravity, simple tapping may effect a radical cure. In cases where the cyst-wall is thick, and the con- tents viscid or gelatinous, growth of the cyst and reproduction of fluid is the rule. Tapping is by no means free from danger. Fatal haemorrhage has followed it, either from puncture of some vessel in the abdominal wall or in the cyst ; and a low form of suppurative inflammation of the lining membrane of the cyst is far from uncommon, when precautions are not taken to prevent the entrance of air into the cyst. Wounding of a vessel in the abdominal wall is most likely to be avoided by making the puncture in the linea alba, but even in this situation death has followed puncture of a dilated vein. Should a flow of blood follow the withdrawal of the canula, the safest plan is to make an incision through the puncture, and for an inch above and below it, so that the bleeding vessel maj"- be seen and tied, or compressed by a needle. If the vessel be on the wall of an adhering cyst, it may be tied ; but if the cyst have collapsed and bleeding should continue into the abdominal cavit}', im- mediate ovariotomy would probably be the best treatment. Entrance of air into the cavity of a cyst, and consequent inflammation of its lining membrane, may be obviated by the use of the syphon-trocar introduced by Mr. Thompson, of Westerham, and modified by the writer. It is introduced like an ordinary trocar, after a lancet-puncture through the skin. The piston or hollow tube is .then withdrawn, and the fluid passes through the canula and tube without noise or exposure of the patient, who lies upon her side in bed. In this position no bandaging or pressure is necessary, as when the patient is seated in a chair. The tube- end of the canula should always be held at a higher level than the end within the cyst, as air, though readily passing upwards along a tube into a cavity from which fluid is escaping, will not pass downwards except under the influence of suction. As the contracting cyst may be ver^' easily detached from the canula, and ovarian fluid might then pass into the peritoneal cavit}', the cyst should always be allowed to empty itself without any disturbance of the abdominal parietes by kneading or pressure. When the cyst appears to be empty, the patient should turn on her back, so that any fluid may gravitate away from the opening in the cyst-wall. The canula may then be withdrawn with one hand, while the abdominal wall is so grasped with the other, that no air can enter as the canula escapes. The puncture is then to be carefully closed by means of a hare-lip or " safety-pin," and twisted suture. This efl^ectually prevents both oozing of fluid and entrance of air. 2. Tapping through the vagina is much more liable to be followed by cyst inflammation than ia tapping through the abdominal wall, because it is not easy to prevent entrance of air. It should always be attempted by attention to the level of the canula ; but it seldom succeeds, Indeed the object of selecting the vagina as the site of tapping has generally been to do nune than simply empty a cyst, and with the hope that the fluid may escape by the depending opening as fast as it is i