3 1 ! subjects after any difficulty of digestion, flatu- Jence, the eating of salad, nuv fruit, &c. Witli regard to the dyspepsia, frequently attendant on calculous disoiders, and other chronic diseases, :Uagendie sets down the complaints of the stomach and ol the urn.ary organs, as probablv only Uvo ettects at the same cause, and not mutually pro- ductive of wich other. (See Rechenhes, S,'c sur les Causes, cj-c de la Gnivdle, 8v... Paris, 1818 ) Un this last point M. Magendie is probably in- correct. It uas formerly supposed that pure lithic acia ivas dissolved in the urine; but Dr. Prout proved that such acid is nearly insoluble, and that under ardmary circumstances it e-tists only in the form of lithate of ammouia. which is a very soluble salt. I„ very cold weather, the urine, as n cools, deposits the lithate of ammonia, blended with some other animal matter. It is the lithate ot ammonia, also, which forms the principal part of t le soft, or uncrystaliised sediment deposited in the vessel by the urine of persons who labour under dyspepsia, and some other bodily ailments, •5^0. 1 lie presence of another acid in the urine causes the lithic acid, even in the bladder, to be precipitated in the form of a red sand. What- ever the kind Qf acid may be that produces this effect, whether the muriatic, or phosphoric, or another, we find that those who are liable to the ormation of acid in the stomach are especially liable to the deposition of red sand. If the diges- tion be weak and the food in consequence remains in the stomach long enough to become acescent, the red sand is generated. If the food be indigestible, or ,f It be taken in too large a q.iantitv, the same effect may be produced in the most healthy person Ihe free use of fermented liquors, and especially 0 hose which contain acid already, such as punch and champagne, or sugar, which may become acid m the stomach, leads to the same result. Persons who lead a sedentary life, and who never take LnT-Ti' p P'''^"'^'' per.piration, are also especiall v liable to the formation of red sand. (Sir Ti ujannn Brodie on Diseases of the Urinary Or- gans,ed. 2, p. 167.) " Jieiiol'h Acre is a close con- nexion between gout and the formation of stone in which n!-l' superabundant acid usu,.lly bright and transparent, and of a copper Inr 'rt''"'^-''' '^PP'^'*^""- Madeira wTe' In general, the patient is troubled with dyspeptic symptoms, and frequently he is liable to gout Ihe same peculiar constitution, the same luxurious rtiet, the same inactive life, which makes him sub- ject to the one, makes him also subject to the otUer. I he red sand is composed of crystals of ^^''i'^ chalk-stones. Which are formed in tiie Imr.tB and cellular tissue ?t gouty patients, are composed of the same acid >n combination with soda. In the better classes of society the deposit of red s^uid takes place chiefly ' hildrc?' S P'incipally ii, luiiurtn. These facts are accounted for by Sir ■benjamin Brodie by the following considerations- Aoult persons in afHuent circumstances, for the' ■ mos part, lead a more luxurious and indolent life tl-au their children; while, among those of lo>ver "nduion, the diet of the cliildrtn is frequ nlu ■u .w iol,.so,ne, and little attention paid to d "der •of the digestive organs. [Op. cit.^. IG9 ) URINARY CALCULI. I Mr. Crosse, of Norwich, Joins many writers in considering the prevailing source of urinary calculi to be dyspepsia leading to the generation of acid the stmuach, and to the superabundance of I tliic acid in the urine. That disease, however, so often exists without the production of urinary con- cretions, that he deems it necessary, for the ori.riu of the latter, that it should be united with other exciting causes, as want of sufficient exertion vanal)le climate, peculiar diathesis, or local dis'- ease in some part of the urinary organs. (On SiTSi.f ^'•'•""'•^ cmIT/!'' '^^V^,"!-^"^^''^"'■Pj^ous sediments, the cir- sight dj-.pepsia, but ,n other respects healthy, nie.—l. Simple errors in diet. 2. Unusual or «ura exercise, either bodily or me.uaT, JLt - •-ularly af^ter eating, and the want of prope • exer- cise at al other times. 3. Debilitating'circum- stances [On Gravel, Calculus, &c., p. 113.) An unusually heavy meal, especially of animal fofd" or biead, he says, is invariably followed by a de- pc«.t.on of the lithate of amnfoni.i from the^lrine. cul .r?v !n f'"P''"S^' Puddings, he finds parti- culaily apt to produce such an effect ..^^^^^^^^ orffravel, consisting of eaily pu,e mhic acd. Dr. Prout ascribes to a anH sometimes generated in the kidneys, and combining with the ammonia, with which the hic acd IS previously united, so as to precipitate be latter in a pure crystallised state. Accordin' 0 the investigations of Dr. Prout, the precipita! S.7u 'V^'t'""''"'"^ though g'ene- The same intelligent writer represents the cir- cumstances which promote the fonnation of uri^ ary sediments in general, as beinsr either r,aluZl or acg,,.rej " With respect to ihose of the firs description (he says), it cannot, I think, be doubted hat certain individuals are nuuh more liable to these sediments than others- This tendency is not Mirequently inherited: thus, I know a fan.ily where the grandfather and father have actua y lithic calcu I m the bladder, and where the gr nd^ son, a youth of twelve or thirteen years of age has a very strong tendency to the same diseafe' its ur.ne depositing frequently very large quan l ies of l.thic acid, both in the form of aiforp^u" ' ,d crystallised sediments. On the other hand e disposition to generate these sediments ii exce ! .s Ike gout, or rather simultaueousiy with ' , but too frequently acquired by indolent habit, a d excess in eating and drinking. 1 have, i„ one or two instances, seen a fit of lith.c gravel induced in the predisp.^ed by siu i°f on a damp, cold seat for some hours. So n t e! also a tendency to lithic calculus is eviden y „T nected^vith local injury, or disease of the kidiiey! The difficulty „f tracing the causes of th« formation of calculi is increased by X Lt tl, t except when the urinary organs are\uucli dt^j' the patient may appear to be in perfect lea J' de,.d persons of tlie strongest colistitutioir ,t iuto the bladder; a^d it^L'^inr^^^^^^