SPINE, CURVATURES OF. 610 Biich a bone is macerated, it is seen to be reduced ti) a mere osseous shell, empty and brittle, with numerous large perforations, and often imperfectly divided into incomplete cellules which freely com- municate. The aifection is usually met with in adults, and most frequently in the articular ex- tremities of the long bones, although the shafts are sometimes attacked. The jaws, the lower end of the femur, and the upper extremity of the tibia are its favourite situations; the cranium, ribs, and other flat bones are occasionally involved, whilst the short bones are less liable to it. The old- •writers on this disorder stated that it was very common in children, and called it then a pcedar- throcace (irors, a child; apOpov, a joint; icaKhs, bad), confounding it with the scrofulous affections of joints so common in young persons. The principal symptoms are, deep-seated pain in the affected part to a greater or less degree, and an enlargement of the bone, which slowly and steadily increases ; the swelling is smooth and even ; the skin over it long retains its normal colour, though the veins become tortuous and con- gested. When the osseous walls are much thinned and the tumor is very large, it is elastic or gives an indistinct fluctuation on pressure; the skin then becomes reddened, painful, inflamed; abscesses often form and burst, leaving unhealthy foul ulcers, and the constitutional symptoms are very severe. These swellings depend upon a great variety of causes : as before mentioned, an abscess, or collec- tion of matter, within a bone may give rise to this expanded, rarified condition of its tissue; so also may deep-seated necrosis or caries, tubercular infil- tration, cancerous deposits, cystic formations of \arious kinds containing fluid, fungous excrescences from the medullary membrane, as well as fibrous, cartilaginous, and other solid growths occurring in the substance of the bone, and by their increase causing its absorption. The tumors often attain a very considerable BiJie, especially those which contain fluid, and then they are usually niultilocular; those with solid contents generally consist of a single cavity only, ■which is completely occupied by the morbid forma- tion. Dupuytren was the first to describe, and at- tempt a diagnosis of, this affection. He states that the medullary membrane is the primary seat of the disease, being ultimately converted into a fungous substance which, by its mechanical effect upon the bone, causes dilatation and thinning of its walls ; he thus distinguishes it from cancerous disease, which commences in the substance of the bone itself and completely destroys it. He ad- mits, however, that these affections present several points of resemblance to each other, and that spina ventosa not uncommonly passes into cancer. (On i/ie Diseases and Ivjtiries of Done, Syd. Soc. p. 410.) Many writers follow Dupuytren in regard- ing spina ventosa as a distinct disease, depending xipon fungoid degeneration of the medullary mem- brane; but their descriptions closely resemble ma- lignant disease. (Beclard, Bromfield, Sanson.) With many autiiors spina ventosa is synony- mous with Osteosarcoma (see that word). Sir Astley Cooper considers it to be a variety of can- cerous disease, which originates in a growth from the medullary membrane. Ndlatou applies tiie ti^rm to that form of malignant deposit which ex- pinds the bone unifnrmly into a thin shell or cyst investing the cancerous mass. According to some authorities, and especially the older ones, the disease depends upon the depiisition of scrofulous matter in the substance of a bone. Wiseman says it is " of a certain species of king's evil and of no other." (Severall Chirurgicall Treatises, 1C7G.) Heister is evidently of the same opinion, as is Boyeralso; and later still Chelius. Cloquet and others speak of two kinds of spina ventosa : the one, occurring in children, is due to scrofulous deposit, and is especially found in the articulations of the metacarpus, metatarsus, and phalanges; the other, much more severe, is seen in adults, attacking the articular ends of the bones of the extremities, and is generally cancerous. The cause of the disease must generally be soufjht in the peculiar diathesis of the patient, as it is one of those maladies which depend upon constitu- tional causes, but it has often been known to fol- low upon external violence. The term spina ventosa is so very vague that it is now but little employed, and is used rather to express the expanded, rarified and cellular con- dition of a bone than to denote the disease which occasioned it. If the bony enlargement depend upon an abscess in the bone, or a collection of fluid, a trephine may be applied and the pent up matter or fluid evacuated. (See Antrum.) If necrosis or caries be the cause, the proceedings recommended in the pages devoted to those subjects should be pur- sued; should tubercular deposit take place in bone, the treatment advocated under the head of scrofula will be advisable; in case of cancerous disease, or disease of the medullary membrane, amputation is^the only resource. (See Osteo- sarcoma.)] G. G. Gascoyen. Bibliography.—y.Pa)irfo?p7iiJ!!w, DeVentositatis Spiiise ssevissimo Morbo, 12mo. Norib. 1674. A. J. van der ileer, De Spina Ventosa, Duisb. 1729. F. L. Augustin, De Spina Ventosa Ossium, icon. iv. 4to. Halffi, 1797. F. H. Schuchurdt, Annotate qusedam de Spina Ventosa, cum annexa sinsulari hujus Morlii Observatione, 12rao. Marburg, 1817. Sir U. Brodie, in Med. Chir. Trans. Be.v's Surgery, p. 22. [jV. Wisu- man, Severall Chirurjficall Treatises, Lond. 1676. L. Heister, General System of Surgery, transl. 1750. Bromfield, Chirurgical Oliservations and Cases. 1773. Boyer, Maladies Cbirurgicales, 1818. T. Cloquet, Diet, de Mdd(5cine, 1827. L. J. Sanson, Diet, de M^d. et de Chir. Pratiques, 1835. Dupiiylren, On Diseases and Injuries of Bone, Syd. Soc. 1847. Nelaton, El^mens de Path. Chir. 1847. Chelius, System of Surgery, by South, 1847.J SPINE, CURVATURES OF. A review of the anatomical and physiological peculiarities of the spinal column would lead us to expect that this complicated structure, adapted to so many different functions, would become liable both to disease and distortion. Diseases affecting its various structures —bones, cartilages, and ligaments—and analogous to diseases affecting similar structures in other parts of the body. Of these diseases, ulceration of cartilages, necrosis and caries of bone, resulting in posterior or anyular eurmlure, known also as Pott's disease, and rheumatic inflammation of the ligaments, are the most common; but these affec- tions it is not intended to describe in the present article. For a description of Pott's disease and the resulting angular curvative, see article Spink, IJlSKASE OF. Dislorlions or curvatures of the spine, depend either upon the failure of some of the internal con- ditions necessary to its preservation iu u healthy