INFLAMMATION, [50] plain that such nerves, if tliey are nerves, can have nothing to do with blood pressure, nor with the excretory pressure of Ludwig ; they must be con- cerned with the functions of each individual cell, and lead us to the conception of trophic nerves. Pfliiger says that if the chorda tympani be irri- tated, the first drop or two of saliva is cloudy, but after that clear. That is to say, the saliva contains neither leucocytes passing through the walls of the capillaries as is commonly observed m congestion, nor the products of increased nutri- tion in the glandular epithelium, beyond the fluid SBcrctioii. According to the same author similar nerve fila- ments may be traced into the secreting cells of the liver, but "that too remains unconfirmed. B. Effect of section of the fifth nerve on the eye. Qacere, a trophic element in that nerve?—Let us now go back to experiments bearing on the direct production of inflammation by nerve influence. Magendie showed (Journal do Physiologic experi- ment., \ 824), and whether or not it was shown before does not greatly concern us, that section of the fifth nerve began to give rise, after twenty-four hours, to opacity of the cornea, suppuration of the conjunctiva, and inflammation of the iris, with false membranes. By the eighth day the cornea was sloughing, and presently the eye-ball became totally disorganised. Other parts on the same side, when the nerve was only divided on one side, were affected, in such a manner as to indicate severe nutritive changes. Valentin made similar expen- nients on rabbits, and on the whole confirmed Magendie's experiments. In his Physiology (see Brinton's Trans., p. 5da), he says that when the fifth nerve of a rabbit is cut through within the cranial cavity, the pupil of the corresponding eye immediately diminishes in size, the blood-vessels soon become greatly dis- tended,and the mucous secretion of the conjunctiva is increased. Then follows a profuse suppuration like the Egyptian or gonorrhosal ophthalmia. The iris next becomes distended with blood, the anterior chamber of the eye fills with exudation, and a fun- nel-shaped ulcer eats into the middle of the opaque cornea. After this the destructive process may cease, and the suppuration gradually diminish. But the opacity, exudation and obstruction of the pupil remain, so that the sight is lost. Section of the fifth nerve in dogs or cats, or disease of this trunk in the human subject often cause the eye to burst in consequence of such suppuration and ulceration. Many experimenters state that these disturbances are only produced by cutting through the nerve at the Gasserian ganglion. They therefore conclude that they depend on the influence of that ganglion, or of those sympathetic fibres which may be sup- posed to arise from it. But in the Albmo rabbit, when the injury lies between the Gasserian gan- glion and the brain,and does not influence the who e of the nervous trunk, it is quickly followed by this vascular distension. . » j u„ The same phenomena have been inycstigated by Von Graefe (^l)xto/iir Ophthalmohgie, IHM , Avho particularly noted the drying up of the seciet on of tears as having an important bearing on the intensity of the subsequent inflammatory change. Morilz Schiff, who first began to investigate the matter in 1844, in his Unicrsuchmgen zm Physiologic dcs Nervensystems, gives "•'i^^'""'; rable account of the subject down to 18jo. It was by-and-bye seen that the necessary division might be limited to the ophthalmic division of the fifth, to cause subsequent inflammatory change. Snellen, however, in Virchoiu's Archiv, vol. i., 1858, endeavoured to show that the section of this nerve merely destroyed sensibility (see p. 34); so that irritants were neither recognised nor removed. To iiim replied Meissner {Henle cO Pfcuffer's Zcil' schifti?,), xxix. 96), who showed that if all the ophthalmic was divided, save its inner fibres (median branch), no inflammation followed ; but were these divided, it invariably did. He made ,it appear that the other portions of the nerve had to do with sensibility—this with nutrition ; that it was a trophic portion of the nerve. (Later, Schiff confirmed these experiments. Henle S{ Pfeuffer-s Zl. (3), xxxix.) Were this so, a power- ful argument would be advanced in favour of the existence of such nerves, as contra-distinguished from vaso-motor nerves only ; but even now this is by no means clear, later experimenters having shown that section of the sympathetic in the neck interferes with section of the ophthalmic of tlie fifth {Seniizin Centralblalt, 1871), and so the ex- istence or non-existence of trophic nerves remains as yet unsettled by experiment. 9. Nerve influence on the heart's action.—The heart is presided over by two sets of nerves, the one coming from the pneumogastric, the other from the sympathetic. This portion of the subject has been carefully investigated by Von Bezold (CeniraZ- blatt, 18G4-1867) ; Ludwig and Thiry i_Wi<'"er Sitzimgsbencht, Band 49, 1864) ; Goltz ; Cyon and Ludwig {Liidivig''s Arheiien, Bd. 1, 1867) ; and others. The discovery of a nervous twig ex- tending from the ganglion stellatura or its branches to the pneumogastric (or superior laryngeal) in the rabbit, which acts so powerfully on the heart m reflex fashion, that it has been called the depressor nerve of the heart, has been one of the most im- portant outcome of these reseai'ches. It may be supposed to extend between the pneumogastric and this ganglion, or rather vice versa. When it is divided and the peripheral extremity irritated, no result follows, as far as the pulse and blood-pressure are concerned; but the moment the central end is irritated, the blood-pressure begins to fall and the power and frequency of the heart's beat to diminish, and the blood-vessels to dilate. {Ltidivig s Arbeitcn, 1867, p. 131 et scq.) This is apparently effected through the spinal cord and (mainly but not en- tirely) the splanchnic nerve. _ Researches of some of the authors cited above show that when the spinal cord is divided high up in the neck, and irritated in the lower cut sur- faces, increased frequency and power of the heart 3 beat follows. These facts go to show that the regulating power has its seat in the medulla oblon- gata, but acts through various sets of nerves, in- iludiiig cerebro-spinal and ganglionic. Reflex action on blood-vessels, through mcdutki oblongata.—Ths same volume of Ludwig s Artjctten (1867), contains a valuable paper by Lov^n on the effects of irritating a sensory nerve on the blood-vessels of the parts supplied by both, the diflicultyin dealing with sensory nerves is that their irritation produces so much pain, that the result cannot be depended on Lovcu, therefore, curarised the animals on which he experimented^ The vessels examined were those of _ the car, the saphena and the arteria dorsalis penis. The