)pened, or bursts by Ulceration [if the entrance f atmospheric air be not prevented], the surface f the cyst inflames; and its great extent in this ircumstance i3 enough to account for the terrible onstitutional disorder, and fatal consequences, vhifih too frequently soon follow the evacuation of .he contents of such an abscess. Hence, in chronic iuppurations of every kind, and not merely in .umbar abscesses, it is frequently the surgeon's iuty to observe the opposite rule to that appli- ;able to acute cases; and he may be called upon to jpen the collection of matter [this, however, must be done with great caution] as soon as he is aware )f its existence, and its situation will allow it to be done. The practice of opening abscesses connected with the larger joints, is considered by Dr. M'Dowel to be in general decidedly objectionable; but, says he, ' when we consider the fatal conse- quences which may result from the unchecked progress of the deep iliac abscess, and take into the account the very great sufferings of the pa- tient from pressure of the anterior crural nerve and its filaments, I believe this to be a case in which surgical interference is called for. The puncturing of this abscess, however, requires much caution. In superficial purulent collections in the iliac fossa, the peritoneum is detached, and pushed upwards and inwards sufficiently to permit the incision above Poupart's ligament being made with perfect safety; not so in the deep collections; there is then no separation of the peritoneum, and the opening must be made j below Poupart's ligament, and of course with I ?reat caution. (See M'Boivel, in Dublin Jour- aul nf Med. Science, vol. iv. p. 13.) Sir Astley Cooper's doctrine respecting the practice of opening abscesses, connected with large joints, I have aoticed in the article Joint.s, Diseases of the. i This view of the principle, on which the treat- I Tient of a lumbar abscess should be conducted, is lot, however, adopted by all surgeons. Kirkland jelieved that the patient liad tlie best chance of ecovery when the abscess was allowed to burst ipontaneously, and the matter to be gradually lischarged through a small opening (Kirkland's Medical Surgery, vol. ii. p. 199); and Mr. Pearson, n comparing the results of his own experience, leclares them to be in favour of the same practice. The generality of modern surgeons, in this coun- try, differ on this point from Kirkland and Pear- son; yet, while they advocate the utility of an Jarly puncture, they admit the danger [from the idmission of atmospheric air] of suddenly dis- :harging the contents of the abscess through a large opening, which is afterwards left unclosed. Certainly, it would be highly advantageous to !iave some means of ascertaining whether the ver- tebra; are diseased; for, as in tin's instance, the Morbid bones would keep up suppuration, imtil heir affection had ceased, and there would be no ■easonable hope of curing the abscess sooner, it might be better to avoid puncturing it under such circumstances. The propriety of this conduct ^eeins the more obvious, as issues, wliicli are tiie iiii-aiis most likely to stop and remove tiie disease <f the spine, are also such as afford the best chance of bringing about the absorption of the abscess itself. However, if the collection cannot be pre- vented from discharging itself, and ulceration is at hand, it is best to meet the danger, make an open- LUMBAR ABSCESS. 26g ing with the lancet in a place at some distance from where the pointing threatens, and after- wards heal it, in the way which will be presently detailed. Though I have recommended generally open- ing chronic abscesses while small, the deep situ- ation of the lumbar one, and the degree of doubt always involving its early state, unfortunately prevent us from taking this beneficial step in this particular case. But still the principle is equally praiseworthy, and should urge us to open the tu- mour as soon as the fluctuation of the matter be- comes distinct, and the nature of the disease is evident. For this purpose Mr. Abernethy em- ployed an abscess lancet, which made an opening large enough for the discharge of those flaky sub- tances so frequently found blended with the matter of lumbar abscesses. Such flakes seem to consist of a part of the coagulating matter of the blood, and are very commonly secreted by the pe- culiar cysts of scrofulous abscesses. The puncture must be of a certain size, in order to allow the clots of blood, occasionally mixed with the matter, to escape. Mr. Abernethy considered the opening of a lumbar abscess a very delicate openition. Former surgeons used to make a large opening in these cases; let out the contents; and leave the wound open; the usual consequences of which were, great irritation and inflammation of the cyst: immense disturbance of the constitution : putre- faction of the contents of the abscess, in conse- quence of the entrance of air into its cavity; and too often, death. While such practice prevailed, very few, afflicted with lumbar abscesses, were fortunate enough to escape. The same alarming effects resulted from allowing the abscess to attain its utmost magnitude, and then burst by ulce- ration. If then a more happy train of events depend upon the manner in which lumbar ab- scesses are punctured, the operation is certainly a matter of delicacy. Until the collection has been opened, or burst, the patient's health is usually little or not at all impaired; indeed, we see in thu faces of many per- sons with such abscesses what is usually under- stood by the picture of health. Hence, how likely our professional conduct is fo be arraigned when great changes for the worse, and even death occur very soon after we have let out the matter' seemingly, and truly, in consequence of the ope- ration. Every plan, therefore, which is most likely to prevent these alarming effects, is entitled to infinite praise; and such, I conceive, is the practice recommended by Mr. Abernethj'. This gentleman's method was to let out the matter, and heal the wound immediately after wards by the first intention. He justly con- demned all introductions of probes, and other nistruments, which only irritate the edges of the puncture, and render them unlikely to grow to gether again. The wound is to be carefully closed with sticking plaster, and it will almost al- ways heal. These proceedings do not put a stop to the se ci'etioii of matter within the cavity of the abscess Of course, a fresh accinnulation takes place- but* It IS obvious that the matter, as fast as it is pro' duced, will gravitate to the lower part of the cyst and, consequently, the upper part will roma'n fo? some time uudistcnded, and have an opportunity of contracting. ^