tliese " tliat injury to their structure is rapidly followed bv a form of decay, like that which is seen in vegetable matter. Nevertheless," he continues, " inflammation ending in suppuration has known to take place in the very heart ol growths. Their centres are also the occasional seats of softening, of effusion of blood, and of cysts. The treatment is generally successful, and con- stitutes one of the most satisfactory applications of surgical skill. The principal modes of operating resolve themselves into excision or strangulation by ligature.] Dupuytren removed about two hundred uterine polypi by excision. In all these cases, haemor- rhage only occurred twice, and in both instances it was permanently arrested by plugging up the vagina. "when a polypus, with a pedicle attached to the fundus uteri, suddenly falls downward, it occasions a sudden inversion of this viscus. In order to re- lieve, as speedily as possible, the great pain and danger of this case, the surgeon must tie the root of the polypus as soon and as early as he can, and pass the ligature, by means of a needle, through the pedicle, before the place where it is tied, al- lowing the ends afterwards to hang down for some length. Then the polypus Is to be amputated below the ligature, and the uterus immediately reduced. Siebold and Mayer, of Berlin, only approve of the ligature in two cases : 1st, when an artery can be felt pulsating in the neck of the polypus ; 2ndly, when the neck of the tumor is so thick that it probably contains large vessels. In all other ex- amples, they prefer excision, on the ground of the difficulty of applying a ligature, and because, when applied, the symptoms are apt to be more severe, and the annoyance greater, than after ex- cision. They operate with round-pointed scissors, curved like a Roman S both in the blades and handles, and from 9 to lOJ French inches in length. The division of the neck of the tumor is to be effected not all at once, but by repeated strokes of the instrument. In Mayer's work, six cases are related, in which polypi of the uterus were thus successfully removed by Siebold and himself. [Sir Charles Locock advocated excision. Sir James Simpson uses apolyptome, which consists of a knife strongly curved like a reaping-hook, or the obstetric decapitating hook of Ramsbotham surmounting a long stem. Dr. Aveling contrived {Obsteti: Trans, and Caialoyue of Ohstetr. hislnt- ments, 1866) a hook grooved on the concave side to encircle the stalk, and a sliding knife which is pushed up to the groove by a screw, of course dividing the stalk in its progress. The ligature was for a long time applied so as to effect strangulation and slow detachment by sloughing.] Levret contrived an instrument consisting of two silver canuloe, curved, and so united by a joint that they are shaped like a pair of forceps. A ligature is passed through the tubes, the noose is applied round the root of the polypus, and the ends are then drawn tight, and tightened daily until the tumor drops. Another instrument is described by Nissen, De Polypis Uteri. (See Richter's Chir. DM. b. ix., s. 613.) It consists of two silver tubes curved, carrying a ligature. The tubes are brought together by a third double canula, and then the ends of the ligature are tightened. Gooch's well-known instrument is a modification of JSissen's, the tubes being made straight. POLYPUS OF THE UTERUS. 473 [At the present time the wire-rope dcraseur is generally preferred. It combines the advan- tages of excision with those of the ligature. In act, the wire is made to cut or crush through the pedicle at once. The original of these instruments 8 Professor Graefe's apparatus, specimens of ivhich are found in the armamentaria of most of the London hospitals. Simpson describes (JEdinb. Med. Journ. 1!150) an instrument given him by Dr. Sabine, of New York, by which a silver wire was made to cut through the pedicle by a screw. Chassaignac's chain-dcraseur has been used, but it is not so convenient as the wire instruments. The rope has been made of strands of several fine iron or copper wires ; but of late it has been found that a stout single iron wire made flexible answers better. A loop is drawn through the eye of the stem, and, by aid of the stem, and two or three fingers in the vagina, the pedicle is caught. The noose is then tightened by the travelling screw or windlass, until it comes back through the eye, when the pedicle is found to be divided. The tumor is felt rolling loose in the vagina, and may be seized and drawn out by a pair of Museux's hook-forceps. If the tumor be very large, the extraction from the vagina may be a work of some difficulty. It has been found necessary to grasp it with the midwifery forceps, and deliver it like a child's head. In noosing the pedicle it is not necessary to carry the noose beyond the tumor or up to the insertion of the root in the uterine wall. It is enough to get the noose beyond the equator of the tumor, when on drawing in the slack of the wire before tightening by the screw or windlass the noose will adjust itself at the junction of the tumor with its root. The stump decays, breaks up, and there is no probability of another tumor springing from it. Generally, when a polypus is removed, the cure is permanent. But of course a second uterine-fibroid may be converted into a polypus like the first. Should bleeding occur, it may be staunched by perchloride of iron carried on lint, and maintained by plugging. Intra-uterine polypi may be noosed and excised in like manner. If necessary the cervix uteri can be expanded before- hand by the laminaria tent, or by incision. The advantages of the instant removal over slow strangulation of the polypus are, the speedy relief, and the infinitely less risk of systemic infection or peritonitis. When the tumor is strangled and left to slough away, most offensive discharges arise, which may produce irritative fever and even death by absorption. Abernethy says in his Lec- tures that he has opened the bodies of several women who have died from the ligature of the polypus of the uterus. In St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital museum there is a preparation showing the uterus laid open with a polypus inside, the ligature encircling the neck as applied before death. In many instances death has followed the removal of the tumor by Gooch's instrument. Dr. R. Lee re- cords nine deaths out of fifty-nine operations, and Dr. M'Clintock three out of ten. A similar fatality has not attended immediate removal by the wire- rope, or even by the knife or scissors. The danger is somewhat lessened bj' cutting off the tumor below the ligature, leaving the root to slough away. Injections are useful to deodorise the discharges. The best are of lead, perchloride of iron, kreosote, or permanganate of potash. The smaller polypi on the neck of the uterus