INFLAMMATION. 72 observed by Dr. William Addison (Med. Gazelle, J:in. 29, 18-11); and not long after Dr. C.J. B. "Williams noticed tlicir extraordinary tendency to ndliero to the walls of the irritated vessel and to each other. (I/nd. July 23, 1H41.) These authors satisfied themselves of the presence of these bodies outside the vessel as well as within its walls, .and concluded that they had escaped in the form of Bmsill nuclei, tiiough the act of migration was not actually observed. Nevertheless. Dr. Williams in his Friuciples of Medicine, 1843, § 425, so far as regards tlie agency of leucocytes, tlieir identity with pus, and the non-specific character of " tuber- cle," was a quarter of a century in advance of his time. W. Addison says {Prov. Trans. 1843, Vol. xi. p. 238), of the colourless corpuscles, that they abound in blood drawn from a. boil, or from the skin in scarlatina, and in the discharge of irritated mucous membranes ; that they are identical with jais ; that " the central portion is alive, and by virtue of its vitality it exercises certain movements by which a division into parts ensues ;" that mere eifusion of liquor sanguinis is not inflammation ; that " vital turgescence " coincides with accumu- lation of white corpuscles in a part ; that if re- quired for purposes of nutrition and nourishment, -jVL.il .—but that if they accumulate uselessly they create fever and inflammation, and, "exercising their own inherent vitality, uncontrolled by the assimilative law of the tissue," they develop into pus or other morbid product. In his work on Heallhy and Diseased Sintclurc, Lond. 1849, he enunciates a law of irritation : that unusual con- ditions cause a preternatural accumulation of nu- tritive elements in a part, whether for good or evil ; and there occur these remarkable words : ■— " During inflammation, using the word in the general sense, there is a more or less marked increase of colourless elements and plasma in the parts affected. At first—in the first stage-; these elements adhere but slightly along the inner niarifin or boundary of the nutrient vessels, and are "therefore still within the influence of the circulating current; belonging at this period as much, or rather more, to the blood tlian to the fixed solids. Secondly—in the second stage— they are more firmly fixed in the walls of the vessels, and are therefore now without the influ- ence of the circulating current. Thirdly—in the third stage—the new elements appear at the outer border of the vessels, where they add to the tex- ture, form a new product, or are liberated as an excretion." This seems clear enough, and if any- thing was necessary to add to its accuracy, that was supplied by Dr. Augustus Waller's researches or. inflammation in the I'rog's tongue. {Fhi/.Ma- (f.zine, 1846, p. 347.) But men's minds were not ready for the reception of these doctrines, or their importance was lujt then appfBciated, and they gradually were forgotten by all save, a few, till this research by Cohnheim, when their bearing on the phenomena of inflammation, and their true value, speedily became apparent to all ; the more readily, inasmuch as the amccboid characters ol pus corpuscles and white blood corpuscles had by this time been generally recognised. In the paper just alluded to, Cohnheim lei the question as to the part taken by the fixed corneal corpuscles in inllammati'in an open one. The next researches of importance were those ol A. llolVman and Vou Uecklinghauseii {Med. CenlralblaU, 18G7, No. 31), and F. A. IIofTmann {Virchow's Arehiv, Bd. xlii. s. 204), wliich rjally dealt with iiifiammation of the cornea and the behaviour of the corneal corpuscles alone. As the object of this section is to give an account of the history of doctrines I'elating to the inflammatory process generally, and not as seen in any particular part or organ, it may be as well to proceed at once to the experiments undertaken by Cohnhcim to establish his views as to the considerable, if not sole share, taken in the process of inflammation by wandering coi puscles, to the exclusion of those that were " fixed." These are given in Virc/iow^s Arehiv (vol. xx. s. 333). After pointing out the fallacies in his critic's experiments and arguments, he proceeds to narrate certain experiments cai-ried out by himself. One of the most striking of these was the gradual substitution of a solution of com- mon salt for blood in the vessels of a frog, the an'- mal being still alive. When no more blood corpuscles existed in the vessels, irritation of the cornea produced in it no turbidity : it remained clear till death. But, to change the subject of examination, the tongue of the frog was selected, as in Augustus Waller's experiment, the animal being however curai-ised. The mode of performing this experiment resembles that adopted for tracing the phenomena of inflammation in the mesentery; only, as the frog's tongue is extensile, no cutting is required. A small portion of th« raucous mem- brane is removed with a pair of forceps; this causes little or no bleeding, and adds much to the transparency -of the object. A variety of structures are thus brought to light—muscular fibres, nerves, and connective tissue, with well-defined connective tissue corpuscles. But beyond assuming more of the spherical form, these bodies, gays Cohnheim, change not. Not so the vessels and their con- tents ; immediately iifter the injury to the mucous membrane, the vessels widen, the blood flow for a moment increases in rapidity, only to become re- tarded. With this retardation the accumulation of white bbod corpuscles in the clear peripheral spaces within the vessels promptly begins ; pre- sently the emigration commences and very soon assumes a character of importance, to be fol- lowed as the congestion increases by a more or less considerable emigration of the red corpuscles through the walls of the capillaries and smaller veins. From these experiments, which, on the whole, are negativ.e as far as the fixed connective tissue corpuscles are concerned, the author con- cludes that all true pus corpuscles (leucocytes) originate from the vessels, at all events in the first stages of aai acute inflammiUion ; their mode of origin in the further stages he at that time con- sidered undetermined, but afterwards he gave in his adheixiiice to tlie view that at all times and under .all circumstances pus corpuscles spring from the blood-vessels, and from the blood-vessels alone. The enquiry into the nature of the inflammatory process, thus commenced by the Berlin school, were continued and, so to speak, brought to per- fection in that of Vienna, chiefly by Strieker him- self, or under his supervision. The results of these experiments were published in 1870 {Studicn am dem JnstiUdc fur e.rpeniiivi,lcl/e Palliohijic in Wieii aus dem Ja/ire 186!)), and constitute th-} next imiiortant contribution to the development of the subject. Other enquiries liavc been published