y-i-t TONGUE, D theliiim on its surface, especially at the posterior part of the organ. These merely require the re- moval of any exciting cause, and a slight nltcra- tive treatment, to be followed by the adminibtra- tion of Quin, Sulph. in Tinct. Cinchon. Coinp. or perhaps the dilute Nitro-Hydrochl. Acid, in the Infus. Anthemidis. Si/philitic ulcers are not unfrequently seen on the aides of the tongue, and on the mucous lining of the mouth and lips. They appear as irregular elon- gated sores of a pale, unhealthy hue, and secret- ing a thin ichorous discharge. They generally follow certain severer symptoms of constitutional syphilis, and create much derangement of the health from the suftering occasioned by them in mastication. The sypMUtic induration of the tongue often ac- companies the above condition, and assumes the form of a round hard tubercle; it is mostly seen in the centre, or thickest part of the organ. This tubercle sometimes ulcerates; but in most instances remains quiescent, and yields, like the former symptoms, to a mild treatment. The Potass. lo- did., with Sarpaparilla, is most efficacious, or small doses of Hydr. Perchlor. with Tinct. Cinch. Comp. may be given.] Under the name of glossanlhrax, or malignant pustule of the tongue, a variety of gangrene has been described, which has its seat in this organ. It commences with a vesicle, which appears on some point of the surface of the part, and is filled with bloody serum. From being at first livid it soon puts on a black appearance, bursts, and under it the gangrenous ravages may proceed further and further, until the whole of the tongue is left in a state of sphacelus. In a case of this decree of severity delirium comes on, and the patient soon dies. It is alleged to be a common disease in horses kept in damp places and upon moist food. (See Andral, Anat. Pathol, s. 2, p. 243.) The treatment should be conducted according to the plans found most efficient in other examples of malignant pustule. [ Wounds of the tongue are frequently witnessed, and ma}' be the results of either external violence, or of injury by the teeth in fits of epilepsy. These may be only superficial, or they may be deep- seated, penetrating through the substance of the organ, or perhaps the apex of the tongue may be bitten o(T. In these cases, should the bleeding be profuse, ice should be kept in the mouth for some time, which generally suppresses it, or, if necessar}--, the bleeding vessel should be secured by passing a strong needle, armed with a ligature, through the adjoining parts, or the application of the perchloride of iron may be resorted to; but in most cases the injured parts will recover their previous condition with little or no treatment. Tongue-tie.—We are often consulted by parents to know if their child is tongue-tied, in conse- quence of some difficulty being experienced in their articulation, or if in an infant, in the process of sucking. The mother generally complains of the infant making a clucking noise, together with an inability to retain the nipple within the gums. The fricnum is generally too sh'irt, and depresses the anterior part of the tongue, thus preventing its free movement forwards. To remedy this the fiairiuni should be slightly divided wiih blunt-pointed scis- Bora their point being directed towards the (loor ot the mouth, in order tu avoid any injury to the SEASES OF. ratline arteries. A short time ago the writer was sent for in consequence of continued bleed- ing from the ranine artery after this operation by a surgeon, but it was soon stopped by pressure with the finger, and the infant was denied the nipple for a time. Navi are occasionally met with in the tongue- but are extremely rare. They appear as a swefling ol a livid blue color, occupying the under part and sides of the organ. Sometimes they bleed pro- fusely, and demand either the ligature or extirpa- tion by the knife; but in many instances they remain quiet, and call for no active treatment. Waris sometimes grow on the tongue, and pro- duce much pain and annoyance from their friction in articulation or in eating. They are considered by some surgeons as arising from a syphilitic taint, but in most instances they appear without any such evil. They should be cut off with scissors, and the surface frequently touched with Argeuti Nitras, or the Cupri Sulphas afterwards.] The glandular papillse, situated on the dorsum of the tongue, have a narrow base, and a broad termination or head, like a umshroom. They are capable of becoming considerably enlarged, so as to form preternatural tumors, which may be mistaken for cancerous excrescences. A young man, eighteen years of age, had on the middle of his tongue a circumscribed tumor, about as large as a middle-sized nutmeg. Louis, who was con- sulted, perceived that the swelling was only of a fungous nature, and he tied its base with a ligature, with the noose of which he contracted the diameter of the pedicle, while with the ends he kept down the tongue. Then with one stroke of a pair of curved scissors, he cut off the tubercle. Caustic was afterwards applied to the base of the tnmor, and the patient was perfectly well in five or six days. {Mem. de I'Acad. de Chir. t. v.) Similar tubercles are mentioned by Morgagui. A peculiar disease of the tongue was met with in a boy by Mr. Earle. " Clusters of very minute semitransparent vesicles pervaded the whole thickness of the tongue, occupying nearly one-half, and projecting considerably both above and below that organ. The slightest injury caused them to bleed profusel)', and in some places the clusters were separated by deep clefis, which discharged a fetid irritating sanies. This disease, which had resisted various plans of treat- ment, both local and constitutional, gradually yielded to perfect quiet, cleanliness, large doses of hyoscyamus, which were increased to 5j. of the extract daily." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 285.) The same medicine, he says, he employed with most unequivocal good effect in many cases of ragged irritable ulcers of the tongue. Cancer. — Tiie tongue is occasionally affected with a true cancerous disease ; one of the most afflicting cases, indeed, which can possibly happen, as in the advanced sUige of the disease the patient can hardly take his food, which nnist be conveyed over the tongue before it can be swallowed, while he is obliged to write what- ever he wishes to say. (See Home's Pract, Obs. on Cancer, p. 112.) Cancer of the tongue seems to differ from other carcinomatous affec- tions in sometimes occurring in youngish sub- jects. In the course of the disease the glands behind the jaw and in the neck become affected. M. Louis saw a lady, who had an ulcerated