740 THYROID GLAND, DISEASES OF thyroid nrtcry are recorded by Chelius. (See J. G. Crosse in Provincial Med.-Chir. Trans.) Extirpation of tU Thyroid Gland.—The dis- easei thyroid gliind has been successfully extir- pated; but the operation is one of so much danger tliat it ought never to be attempted, except under the most pressing circumstances. The many large arteries naturally distributed to the gland itself; their still greater size in bronchocele, and the ■vicinity of the carotid arteries and important nerves, render the undertaking a thing of no common difficulty. But that it is not imprac- ticable is proved by the following example :— On the 20th of March, 1791, a woman pre- sented herself for admission at the Hotel Dieu, with a tumor of the right portion of the thyroid gland. The swelling was two inches in diameter, round, hard, and attached to the right and middle part of the trachea, and it pushed outwards the sierno- niastoideus muscle. Independently of its being sensibly raised by each pulsation of the arteries, it followed the motions of deglutition, and in a slight degree impeded the passage of solid ali- ment. Desault made an incision through the middle of the tumor, beginning one inch above, and finishing one inch below the swelling. By the first stroke he cut down as far as the gland, dividing the integuments, the platysuia myoides, and some fibres of the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles. An assistant, with the view of fixing the tumor, drew it towards the inner edge of the wound, whilst the operator detached it from the sterno mastoid muscle. In dissecting the cel- lular substance, two small arteries were divided, which were secured with ligatures. The outer portion of the tumor being thus disengaged, the inner was detached in the same way. The tumor was then drawn outwards by means of a hook, that it might be separated with more ease from the trachea. In the course of this dissection, the branches of the thyroid arteries were successively tied, as fast as they were divided. The assistant who held the hook pulled the gland from witliin and forwards, whilst the surgeon finished the dis- section outvvards and from above downwards. This part of the operation was the most difficult : It was necessary continually to wipe away the blood with a sponge, which necessarily prevented the parts from being easily distinguished. By cautious dissection, the superior and inferior thyroid arteries were laid bare, and afterwards tied with the aid of a blunt crooked needle. They were then transversely divided, and the remaining part of tho tumor detached from the trachea, to which it strongly adhered. The wound resulting from this operation was nearly three inches in depth ; out- wardly bounded by the sterno-mastoideus muscle, inwardly by the trachea and oesophagus ; and posteriorly by the carotid artery and par vagum, which were exposed at the bottom of tlie wound. The extirpated tumor was five inches in circum- ference, and on examination was found to differ in no particular from scirrhous glands, except that in the centre tiiere was a cartilaginous nucleus. The patient got well and left the hospital on the thirty- fourth day after the operation. (Sue DesauWs Parisian Chir. Journ. vol. ii. p. 292, 296.) The extirpation of the thyroid gland is an ope- ration so extremely difficult and dangerous, that whether it ou)jht to bu recof nised as a justifiable operation is a question on which well-founded doubts may be entertained. The number and si^e of the arteries divided, the proximity of the trachea, oesophagus, jugular vein, and carotid, near which the knife must necessarily pass, are the principal dangers, which have deterred the majority of practitioners from performing the operation. The first time that Gooch undertook it, he was deterred from finishing it by the hteraorrhage, and his pa- tient died on the eighth day. The second time he succeeded better, but was incapable of securing the vessels ; and the hajmorrhage, which would have been mortal, was only stopped by the pres- sure of the hands of assistants for the space of eight days. {Gooch's Med. and Chir. Obs.p. 130. PeWs System of Surgery, vol. v. p. 525. Richter's Bild. t. ii. p. 128.) Vogel and Theden also performed the operation with success ; but no surgeon who has attempted this bold operation has signalised himself so much by it as Dr. Hedenus, of Dresden, who has re- uioved the diseased thyroid gland in six instances with success. His reasons for resorting so often to this difficult operation, he says, are—1st, be- cause he has seen a patient with enlarged thyroid gland, for which the seton had been employed, seized on the ninth day with violent tetanus, which proved fatal in seventeen hours ; 2dly, because he considers setons and other similar means unlikely to do good, as he has almost always found por- tions of cartilage or bone within the diseased part. In one of his cases, the gland was as large as a skittle-ball ; it covered the whole of the front of the neck, reaching from the os hyoides to the upper part of the sternum, and pushing back on each side the slerno-cleido-mastoideus and ad- jacent parts. The circiiniference of its base was fourteen inches, and its transverse diameter seven. It had a firm, tense, heavy feel. The skin was full of enlarged veins ; and the tumor com- municated to the hand a throbbing motion, which might have been taken fur that of an aneurismal swelling. The patient was laid on a mattress. Dr. Hede- nus then divided the skin in a longitudinal di- rection, from the hyoid bune to the top of the sternum, and dissected and turned back the skin and platysuia myoides, on each side, to the extent of two inches. The sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles were then seen firmly adherent to the whole tumor. An attempt was made to se- parate them from the swelling ; but, scarcely had the dissection extended a quarter of an inch, when a copious stream of blood proceeded from nume- rous small arteries, which could neither be tied, on account of their minuteness, nor stopped with styptics. Hedenus, therefore, determined imme- diately to cut through the above-named muscles at their points of attachment, above and below, and to remove the intervening portions with the tumor. Respecting this part of the operation, it merits particular notice, that, after the cure, the motions of the hyoid bone and larynx, and the functions of respiration, speech, and deglutition, all re- mained unimpaired ; which was also the case in four other instances, in whicii Hedenus remove I portions of the sterno-hyoidei and sterno thyroidci muscles. Hedenus next separated the swelling, above and below, from the stcrno-deido-uiastoid and J