828 URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. operator's hand; the fulcrum at the convexity of the curve, the resistance being the structures upon which its point impinges, and which may be per- forated if undue force be applied. For cases of difficulty, I prefer the patient in a recumbent position. The head iind shoulders should be slightly elevated by pillows, the knees a little raised and separated from each other; in this manner a relaxed condition of the muscles of the abdomen and perineum is favoured. The operator should then stand on the left side of the couch or bed, hold the catheter as before directed, the handle being in the horizontal direction ; he should support the penis with the left hand, hold- ing it lightly either between the thumb on one side and fore and middle finger on the other, or in the following manner, which is, perhaps, better. The left hand is in this case applied, the palm being upwards, so that the middle and ring fingers hold the penis just behind the corona glandis ; the index finger and thumb are then at liberty to be applied for the purpose of retracting the prepuce if necessary. The beak of the instrument having been introduced, it should be remembered that, during the first two inches, it is to be maintained against the inferior wall of the canal for the purpose of avoiding any hitching at the outset in a lacuna on the roof, sometimes considerably developed, an accident which gives the patient pain, has an awk- ward appearance, and sometimes disconcerts a young operator not a little. The fingers of the left hand gently draw the penis over the instrument as it glides easily on to the bulbous part, the han- dle still being horizontal, or nearly so; arrived at which, if some obstiuction seems to offer, the in- strument should be withdrawn an inch or so, and again passed, taking care not to elevate the handle so soon; after which, by gently raising it and caus- ing it to describe a curve along the middle line, the extremity will probably glide slowly upwards into the bladder as the handle sinks towards the interval between the patient's thighs. If this manoeuvre is not sufficient to ensure success in passing the sub-pubic curve, the operator may make gentle pressure with the fingers of the left hand on the curved part of the instrument, as felt through the soft parts in the perineum, guiding it after he has withdrawn the point, and as he again applies it to the seat of the obstruction. He is now also conveniently situated for subsequently using the left fore-finger in the rectum, or otherwise, as occa- sion may require, the catheter being still held in the right hand. In exploring the urethra, especially if the symp- toms are not such as to render the suspicion that a stricture is present more than probable, we are not hastily to conclude, because a little obstruction presents itself in the passage, that an organic con- striction is of necessity the cause. The part is extremely sensitive, and resists any but gentle efforts to traverse it, the more so if it be the first time an instrument has been introduced. In such cases nu violence may be used: any attempt to force a passage would only increase the difficulty. Gentle pressure steadily maintained, without rapid niovements of the point, will sooner or later over- come opposition and carry the instrument through. Arrived at the neck of the bladder, we may here encounter an obstacle, and still no stricture be pre- sent; indeed, it is not very uncommon to find the puuit of an instrument stopped just at the moment the operator thinks all difficulties surmounted. This is more likely to occur with a small instru- ment than a large one, and with one which is slightly than one which is stronglj' curved. The floor of the canal at the point named, of which it is difficult to say whether it most belongs to the ure- thra or to the bladder, may now and then be found somewhat elevated, the uvula vesicae projecting unduly into the internal meatus, or occasionally a band of mucous membrane appears a little promi- nent, stretched transversely across the opening. Either of these obstacles, it is conceived, would be especially likely to entangle a soimd which is not large enough to dilate the passage and ride over such an obstacle, or possesses a form so little curved as to travel too closely along its floor. For these cases, I have often found a full-sized elastic catheter, which has been kept some time on a strongly-curved stilet, succeed when a metal one has failed. It should be removed from the stilet and used at once before the curve unbends. Urethral Exploration.—The size of an instru- ment to be used in exploring the urethra for the diagnosis of stricture is by no means a matter of indifference. As a rule, we should always commence, when prosecuting diagnosis, whatever statements the pa- tient may make, with a full-sized sound or catheter, that is to say, not smaller than No. 7 or 8, with a blunt, not conical, extremity, as such will afford far more certain indication of the situa- tion of the obstruction than smaller sizes, which might indeed pass through a slight constriction altogether. If the instrument be graduated in inches and fractions of inches, as all metal instru- ments ought to be, so much the better, and the exact situation of the stricture should be recorded in the case-book, on more than one occasion. Suppose then that an obstacle is encountered at any spot by the instrument described, and it is found that gentle pressure accomplishes no pro- gress, let this be increased a little, and if the penis retreat before it, being evidently pushed backward " en masse," there can remain little question as to the existence of organic constriction, the unyield- ing, semi-resilient nature of the obstruction, a sen- sation which is communicated intelligibly enough to the practised hand, but which can scarcely be described in words, leaves no doubt whatever on the surgeon's mind. A smaller instrument may now be chosen with which to determine the calibre of the stricture; if this enter the contracted part, it is at once obvious by its being "held" i.e. it has entered a narrower passage which fits closely to and retains it. A trial of several instruments may be necessary, until at last one which is suffi- ciently small to pass the constriction is arrived at, always bearing in mind that the smaller the instru- ment the more careful and the more sparing of force must the operator be, since, as must be ob- vious, such will more easily inflict a wound than those which are larger and blunter, the concentra- tion of that force being in the inverse ratio to the size of the instrument. This may now be carried on by way of search for another, especially if the first bo in the anterior part of the canal. It may, however, be so firmly grasped there, and its freedom of motion be so interfered with, that it is not easy to judge accu- rately with respect to anv obstacles situated deeper in. If so, another kind of sound may be used