SUPPURATION. been successful." (See Inflammation.) Rigors, as Mr. Hunter remarked, are more common at the commencement of spontaneous inflammations, than of inflammations from external injury. They sel- dom precede the suppuration which follows opera- tions. [Rigors, i.e. sense of coldness, with muscular tremors (which always, as Hunter said, indicate some serious change in the composition of the blood), have always been considered important symptoms of suppuration; but we now are able to determine their relations to the general order of phenomena more minutely than was done by the authors just quoted. Rigors are no necessary part of any in- flammation in suppuration. They almost always accompany the incipient stage of inflammations of idiopathic origin; but they have no necessary con- nection with suppuration, until the pus be pent up and absorbed into the blood, and, in other words, begin to create hectic^ Rigors, then, are not symp- toms of suppuration joer se, or its elements, but of an accidental suppuration when the pus is absorbed into the blood.] The texture, in which suppuration is most readily produced, is mucous membrane, whetiier this lines excretory ducts, or canals, or covers the inner surfaces of the respiratory, or urinary organs. In a few hours after an irritating cause has been applied to these surfaces, the physical and chemical qualities of the fluid, which they secrete in their natural state, are changed. From being a tough viscid substance, not easily miscible with water, the mucus of the nose and bronchi becomes, dur- ing an attack of inflammation, very readily mis- cible with water, of a yellowish white colour, and fluid consistence. If, in this state, the secretion from these membranes be examined with the mi- croscope, it will be found to contain small globules; and these are found to increase in number in pro- portion to the degree and continuance of the in- flammation. We have examples in the respiratory organs of persons aff'ected with catarrh, and in the urinary organs of those who labour under gonor- rhoea. In the progress of these diseases, we can generally trace the changes which take place by slow, but sensible degrees, in the nature of the se- cretion, from mucus to pus, and from pus back again to the state of mucus. This puriform dis- charge from raucous membranes, in a state of in- flammation, may be kept up for months without these membranes appearing to undergo any otlier morbid changes, than a slight degree of redness and swelling. A loss of subst<ance, or ulceration, is found not to happen oftener than in one case out of ten examples of suppuration from mucous mnmliranes. (See Thomson, On, Injlaimnation, pp. 30,5, 306.) Suppuration may be readily produced in the skin, by vvhatever excites inflammation in that texture, or causes a separation of the cuticle. We have examples of this fact, in blisters for cantha- rides, and in vesications from superficial burns. If the cuticle, covering a recent blister, or burn, lie removed, and the cutis exposed to the irritation of stimulating substances, pus will soon be discharged from the abraded surface. Suppuration can be kept up in the skin for an indefinite length of time, as we see done every day in the management of perpetual blisters. Hero ulceration is seldom observed, and, consequently in the skin, loss of substance is by no means necessary for the pro- duction of pus. 635 If the cutis he divided, as in a wound, or a portion of it removed, as in the extirpation of tumors, and either the air or any other external body be permitted to remain in contact with the divided surfaces, the process of suppuration is speedily induced in the subjacent cellular texture. After the hasmorrhage, which takes place from the small vessels, has ceased, an oozing of a fluid, at first resembling serum, occurs, which is gradually changed into pus. But in this case, as Dr. Thom- son has correctly observed, the surface of the wound is previously covered with a layer of co- agulable lymph, which is penetrated with blood- vessels, and gradually raised into the little red eminences, termed granulations. The surface of an inflamed serous membrane soon becomes covered with a very thin layer of an albuminous substance, and when this is removed, the membrane is found to have lost its smooth polish. This deposit gradually becomes thicker and more adherent, and forms the rudiment of a false membrane. It constitutes what is usually termed coagulable, or coagulating lymph, and, by undergoing certain modifications, it appears to several pathologists of the present day to be con- verted into pus. Thus Laennec states, that when adventitious membranes do not become organised, they are generally softened down into pus. Although^ with the exception of the epidermis, nails, and hair, there is no structure in the human body exempt from the attack of inflammation, yet abscess does not form in every texture. Thus it never takes place in a dense, fibrous, or cartilagi- nous texture, nor in that of a serous membrane. It would appear that only those organs are liable to abscess, which have cellular tissue as one of their constituents. Certain it is also, that of all tissues this is most frequently the seat of suppu- ration and abscess. John Hunter noticed the fact, that suppuration takes place oftener in superficial than deep-seated cellular tissue ; a fact, perhaps correctly attributed to the cellular tissue near the surface of the body being more exposed to the ex- citing causes of inflammation, than that which is deep-seated. Yet, the difi'erence in the effects of foreign bodies deeply placed, from those which arise when such bodies approach the skin, as re- ferred to by Mr. Hunter, cannot fail to attract the notice of every experienced surgeon. Pus is sometimes formed within a muscle ; and here it seems to be deposited in the intermuscular cellular tissue; the muscular fibre itself being ap- parently incapable of suppuration. Purulent matter is met with in all the paren- chymatous tissues, either in the form of abscess or of purulent infiltration ; as, for instance, in the lungs, liver, spleen, pancreas, and kidneys. A circum- scribed, or encysted abscess is more common in the liver ; a purulent infiltration in other organs. With respect to suppuration in nerves, M. An- dral considers it an undecided point, whether the nervous tissue itself, or the cellular membrane, which enters into its composition, is the real source of the purulent matter. Mucous membranes are more prone to suppu- ration than the serous, in which last there is a far greater tendency to the adhesive inflammation. (See Inflammation.) Pus is also sometimes met with within the blood- vessels and lympliatics, and even in the centre of clots of blood in the vessels, or heart itself. It I