i i 1 INTESTINAL treatment must be directed to the cause and not to the effect, to the encroaching organ rather than to i the viscus injuriously affected; the ovarian tumor j must be either diminished in size by tapping, or I be removed by a more serious operation; the bladder must be evacuated either by catheterism or by puncture; feces, impacted in the rectum or colon, in consequence of functional derangement, as in I hj'steria,or from muscular intonicity or inability to contract upon or expel the contents, as in antemic individuals and persons of lax fibre or paralytics, should be removed by scooping out the I'ectum, assisted by copious and stimulating enemata, as well as by purgatives administered by the mouth. Of these latter, small and repeated doses of the aqueous extract of aloes or of sulphate of mag- nesia are to be preferred. Galvanism, also, as recommended by Dr. Abercrombie, may be tried. (See Case successfuUi/ treated by the writer in Med. Times,Feb.7, 1863, p. 137.) Strychnine, too,should have a fair trial. An interesting case of fatal ob- struction, apparently arising from loss of contractile power in the muscular coat of the bowels, is recorded by Dr. Waller (Trans. Lond. Med. Soc. New Series, vol. i. p. 130); also two cases of impacted faeces, lasting over many years, recorded by Mr. J. Long {Med. Times, 18.56). The history and occasional presence of a solid tumour in either case made the diagnosis easy. Twistinffs of the bowel,—These are more generally connected with the sigmoid fle-xure. In respect to their causes Dr. Brinton says, "these twistings seem to differ materially in different cases; tumoui-s, abnormal laxity of the meso-colon, and still more' frequently hernial displacements of other parts of the canal, are the circumstances often found in con- nection with them; and, taken in conjunction witli the great age of those subject to them, go far to suggest a failure of peristalsis, as forming at least a frequent immediate cause of their occurrence. The relation of a case reported in Gmfs Reports, Snd series, vol. ii. p. 286, will best illustrate the above lesion. "J. J., aged 26, admitted into Guy's Hospital March 8th, 18-14. Twelve years before admis- sion he had an attack of constipation, which yielded to common purgatives. One year ago he had another attack which lasted six days, and was removed by the introduction of a long tube into the bowel. On admission, constipation had ex- isted eight days, attended latterly by a remitting screwing pain at the epigastrium. Abdomen much distended with flatus, and the track of the colon particularly resonant upon percussion. No sick- ness; urine plentiful. During the treatment, the tube could be introduced to the extent of twenty- three inches, and favoured the escape of fajcal matter and gas, but no satisfactory evacuation was ob- tamed. Died on the 18th day of the disease." Post mortem.—" The abdomen was almost filled by an enormously distended and hypertrophied sigmoid «exure which had twice turned on its axis." Dr Barlow remarked, " It is evident that the twisted sigmoid flexure, where it passed in front of the rectuin did not exert any strong compression upon the latter as the cesophagus tube passed readily through the rectum into the distended portion of bowe , where its extremity could be felt through the abdominal wall; but it is also obvious that at this point the peristaltic motion of the intestine or at least the passage of its contents, must have OBSTRUCTIONS. 97 been arrested, for it was just above this point that the increase in the calibre of the bowel and thick ness of its walls commenced. There was also anotlier seat of obstruction just above the distended convolution at the point where the upper turn of the colon occurred, for it was just above this that perforation took place. The history of the case and post mortem revelations showed that a diseased action had been going on for a long period." Should it be possible under circumstances of twist of the colon to feel the end of a tube through the abdominal wall in some unexpected locality the nature of the lesion would be at once recog- nised. At the same time the tube cannot be in- troduced with too much care and caution, lest, in- stead of tiavelling along the intestinal canal, it perforate its wall. Treatmetit.~ln these cases there is little choice ot remedies, the chief being the free but cautious use (it the tube and copious eneinata. ^T^t In a case similar to the above iVI. Trousseau, after seeing the condition of the' sigmoid flexure at the autopsy, suggested the pos- sible benefit which might have arisen from punc- ture with a fine trocar and canula, of this portion ot the intestinal tube through the anterior abdo- minal wall, with a view to evacuate the gas con- tained, m order to relieve distention, and conse- quently temporary paralysis. By this means the volvulus might have been untwisted and peristalsis restored. (Nilato7i, Elemens de Path. Chiruraicale tom. IV. p. 479.) ' A case of twist of the small intestine consequent on shock, recorded in the Medical Times, Nov. ■^2, I806, p. 514, is worthy of note. "A gentle- man 53 years of age who had previously enioyed good health took a draught of cold water while heated, and was immediately seized with pain in the abdomen and vomiting; on the fourth day abdominal distension and tympanitis, except in the right ihac, lumbar, and adjoining portion of umbilical regions, which were dull; no pain on pressure; on the ninth day dulness was replaced by tympanitis; coffee-ground vomit. Some offen- sive fajces passed now and then. Death. Autopsy —A portion of mesentery was twisted to a cord- like state, and behind this a portion of ileum had passed and was strangulated; lower two thirds of the Ileum, the ctecum, &c. were collapsed, while the rest of the ileum and the jejunum were enor- mously distended and occupied nearly the whole abdomen. Apparently the cause of the twist in this instance was the application of cold adminis- tered by the mouth. it "'ill be justifiable to tiy the effect of this agent in obstinate cases of ob strtiction, either by injecting ice-cold water ver anum or by dashing a quantity of cold wiUer over the surlace of the abdomen. Treatment.—TvjiiU of the small intestine re- sembling, as they do, other sudden mechanical lesions, must be treated on similar principlea. Question of Operation in Intestinal Obstructions —Hitherto, with the exception of intussusception' the propriety of calling in the aid of the surgeon 111 cases of intestinal obstruction, where medicine fails to relieve, has not been discussed here. The suliject must be considered under two heads corresponding with the two principal divisions of the intestines, small and large; and in reference a.so to the peculiar sources of obstruction to which i