144 JOINTS, DISEASES 01 third stage when the abscesses are discharging, and the health is impaired. He recommends also the warm salt water bath, three times a week, and afterwards the tepid bath; the time for bathing, in the morning. The cold or warm douche bath is often used in this stage of the complaint with very good effect. (Op. cit. p. 88.) In some cases the patient may be allowed to move about on crutches, with the foot suspended in a sling, as in the case of a fractured thigh. _ "With respect to rubbing the joint with the oint- ment of aconitine, grs. vi. to 3 vi. of lard, see, Coulson, Op. cit. p. 82. I apprehend that the friction, unless very gently conducted, would be objectionable. The occurrence of suppuration makes a vast dif- ference in the prognosis. " The formation of even the smallest quantity of pus in the joint, in cases of this disease, in young persons, considerably diminishes, and in the adult almost precludes, the hope of ultimate recovery." (Brodie, in Med. CMr. Tran., vol. vi. p. 347.) This gentleman is not much in favour of opening the abscesses early, at least, before the joint has been kept for some time perfectly at rest. [As abscesses form, most surgeons now recom- mend an early opening, to avoid spreading of the pus and disorganisation of the soft structures. If dislocation have occurred, and the limb be distorted in its position, especially drawn upon the abdomen, the deformity may be lessened by putting the pa- tient under chloroform, bringing down the limb, and fixing it in a starched bandage. In this way ankylosis in a good position may be obtained, and the patient's condition be greatly improved. It is a question, however, whether this proceeding should be resorted to, in consequence of the amount of disease present. Occasionally, however, Mr. Erichsen states it may be successfully effected, and he relates a good instance in illustration. (Op. cit. p. 743.) If ankylosis be likely to occur, an endeavour must be made to secure it with the limb in a straight position.] I have known so many instances of a return ol the hip disease, after it had been for a considerable time apparently cured, and this from accidental • blows and rough exercise of the limb, that I always recommend children who have had an attack of morbus coxarius, not to be sent to school, nor to be allowed to follow rough exercises. Mr. J. Burns, in the second volume of his Dissertation on Inflammations, p. 311, has re- corded a remarkable instance, in which this joint was affected with that intractable and fatal dis- temper, fungus hsematodes. The case was at first supposed to be the disease of which we have just been treating in the preceding columns. For a further account of malignant diseases of the joints, I must refer to Sir B. Brodie's valuable publication. , [For some further considerations respecting tlie treatment of disease of the hip-joint, see Excision of Joints.] [Slijr Joint or Anki/losis.—subject has already been dwelt upon in another phice, and therefore we do not propose entering into its con- sideration further here, beyond a reference to the plan of treatment which has recently come into vogue, namely, that by forcible extension and rup- ture of the uniting medium, provided that be not bone. This form of ankylosis goes by the name of spurious or false, in contradistinction to the true or osseous form, wherein the bony structure of the articulating surfaces has become fused or united into a firm unyielding and solid mass. The most recent writer on the subject divides false ankylosis into five classes:—!. Extra-cap- sular adhesions, without alteration in the form of the articulation. 2. Extra-capsular adhesions, with muscular retraction, or with cicatrices, but without alteration in the form of the articulation. 3. Slight intra-capsular adhesions. 4. Slight intra-capsular adhesions, with muscular retraction and cicatrices. 5. Intra-capsular adhesions, with alteration in the form of the articulation. It will be seen that all these forms differ materially, and have resulted according to the amount of inflammation present which produced them, in various constitutions and classes of persons.* It follows that the treatment of each form will vary somewhat, but it will agree in the general principles of—rupture of the ad- liesions by forcible extensions ; section of tendons, and subsequent separation of adhesions; and gradual extension. (See B. E. Brodhurst on Ankylosis, 3rd ed. 1861, p. 49.) In some forms of ankylosis, the adhesions will alone yield to forcible extension ; in others they will yield to forcible extension after the subcutaneous division of tendons; while again, in other cases, the ad- hesions will yield to gradual extension. In this plan of treatment there are some conditions which Mr. Brodhurst considers to be indispensable, and these are that the action of the voluntary muscles should be entirely suspended, under the influence of chloroform. Cicatrices, tense fasciae, and ten- dons should be previously subcutaneously divided, and the punctures allowed to heal, before forcible flexion or extension is applied. In making flexion or extension, moderate force alone is to be used, with the hand only, and without instrumental aid. The adhesions should be ruptured in flexion of the limb. No attempt at the time of rupturing the adhesions should be made of restoring the position of tlte limb; nor, indeed, should the con- dition of the joint be further investigated. This is a point to which Mr. Brodhurst especially di- rects attention. "Before chloroform is administered, a gutta- percha splint should be moulded to the limb; and it may be allowed to harden wliile the chloroform is taking effect. This splint is to be removed be- fore extension is made, and it is to be replaced as soon as the adhesions have been ruptured; it may be worn until tenderness about the joint has ceased. When tenderness has entirely or nearly disap- peared, the limb may be moved gently. This passive motion should be repeated at intervals. (0/;. ctV. p. 56.) Under the influence of chlorofonr., muscular rigidity mav, in a large number of instances, be so far ovcrcoine, that the adhesions may be ruptured without previous subcutaneous division of soft structures. Often, however, it is necessary to divide tendons, cicatrices, and fascia;, before it is possible to affect the adhesions. In all cases of partial ankylosis some muscular rigidity exists. Ankylosis of the hip causes more inconvenience than of any other jouu, except that of the maxilla. For further information upon this important subject, we must refer the reader to Mr. Biodhurst's work, and to the article Ankylosis.