and since occasionally adopted by Sir B. Brodie and others. In 1816 Baron Dnpnytren made a trial of a method, which had indeed been sug- sested at an earlier period by Chaussier and Beclard (see Velpeau, I^oiw. Mem. da Med. Ojier., t. 3, p. 748), which consisted in making the first incision into the membranous part of the urethra, in a line with the raphe' of the perineum, com- mencing about two inches and a-half in front of the anus, and terminating an inch from it. A second incision made parallel to the first divided the erector penis and the adipous cellular tissue, placed between the bulb of the urethra in front, and the rectum behind. In the third stage of the operation, the membranous portion of the urethra was laid open from the b'ilb to the verumoJtanum. The lithotome or bistoire cache was then intro- duced along the staff, and the latter withdrawn. The edge of the former was then turned upwards, towards the symphysis pubis, and the blade having been made to quit the sheath by pressing on a spring, the instrument was drawn out in this di- rection, so as to cut the neck of the bladder and part of its anterior parietes, the deepest portion of the upper side of the urethra, the superior part of the prostate, the cellular tissue between the an- terior ligaments of the bladder, and the arterial and venous branches of this situation, (See Clin. Cliir. t. ii., p. 373.) This method was soon abandoned; in fact, as the : opening was situated in the narrowest part of the I arch of the pubes, it must have afforded but little r room for the extraction of the calculus. The I venous haemorrhage would also be considerable. Bilateral Operation.—In 1824 Baron Dupuytren ! began to employ his double lithotome with a staff : that did not terminate in any cul-de-sac, which fre- quently impeded the disengagementof the lithotome from the deep groove of the instrument. The patient is placed in the usual position for the lateral opera- tion, and the stafi' held by an assistant exactly in the vertical direction. While the left hand keeps the integuments of the perineum tense, the right makes, with a double-edged knife, a semilunar incision, convex upw.irds, beginning on the right, between ; the anus and the ischium, and terminating at the : corresponding point on the left, the distance to which it passed from the anus forwards being • five lines. The subcutaneous cellular tissue, the • superficial fascia of the perineum, and the anterior point of the external sphincter, being divided so fis to expose the origin of the membranous part of the urethra, the groove of the staff can be detected with the nail of the left forefinger, which will serve for guiding the point of the knife into it. During all this first stage of the operation care must be taken to depress the lower edge of the wound with the finger, and to keep the rectum away from the edge of the knife. After the membranous part of the urethra has been sufficiently opened, the same finger-nail serves as a guide for the lithotome, which, held in the right hand, with the thumb below, and the two fingers next to it above, is applied to the staflf ' with its convexity directed towards the anus. The ■ contact of the two instruments having been clearly 1 ascertained, the surgeon takes hold of the handle ' of the staff with his left hand, and, raising its beak j under the symphysis of the pubes, pushes the I double lithotome along its groove into the bladder VOL, II. LITHOTOMY 241 The staff is now to be withdrawn, and the lithotome turned, so as to make its concavity face the anus. Its blades are then made to quit the sheath, and it is drawn out horizontally. Tlie left forefinger is then introduced into the wound, so as to ascertain the extent of the incisions made, and to guide the forceps to tlie calculus. (See Dupuytren in Clin. Chir. t. ii., p. 390.) Baron Dupuytren ascribed the following advan- tages to the bilateral operation :— 1. The great facility of its performance. 2. The situation of the wound in the widest part of the lower aperture of the pelvis, and conse- quently the most favourable for the extraction of large calculi. 3. This method makes a shorter and more di- rect passage into the bladder, whereby the requisite manceuvring with instruments is facilitated. 4. The readier escape of the urine through the wound, and consequently the removal of any risk of its becoming extrav:isated in the cellular tissue. 5. An opening is made in the neck of the blad- der and the prostate, sufficient for the extraction of very large calculi without the wound passing so far on each side as to become dangerous. 6. The ejaculatory ducts are conceived by Du- puytren to be more safe from injury than in the common lateral operation. 7. The method is applicable to both sexes. The bilateral operation has been performed about seventy times in the Hotel Dieu and other parts of Paris, and only six of the patients died. In that hospital twenty-six patients were operated upon in succession, with complete success. (See Dupuytren in Clin. Chir. t. ii., p. 413.) [Some abatement must be made from this esti- mate of advantages. • The mortality of the bilateral operation is much higher than that above stated, being rather more than one in five. Dupuytren lost nine male patients out of thirty-eight. Of the forty-seven operations performed by Sanson, Roux, Blandin, and Velpeau, ten proved fatal. Finally, of twenty-three operations performed by Professor Eve, of the Nashville University, four tenninated fatally. We have thus a mortality of one in four and two-thirds for the bilateral method. The bilateral method does not entirely exempt patients from the danger of haemorrhage, for Du- puytren himself, Sanson, and others have lost patients from bleeding. There is the risk, if the blades be too widely separated, that they may come in contact with the rami of the ischia as the instru- ment is being withdrawn, and so divide both pubic arteries. This accident, we believe, happened to Dupuytren himself. With a narrow pubic arch it is not unlikely to occur. To avoid it, the instru- ment should always be depressed as far as possible while it is being withdrawn, in order that it may pass out through the widest part of the pubic arch. Professor Eve, of the United States, wounded' the rectum in one of his operations. The principal advantage of the bilateral operation is, that it affords a free opening for the extraction of large calculi • but Mr. Liston, and many other surgeons in this country, think that it is quite time to divide the right side of the prostate whenever such a pro- ceeding is found to bo necessary during the course of the lateral operation. Mr. Erichsen proposes a combination of the ' median and bilateral operations, by which he thinks the chief objections to both may be got rid of. It R