£)18 VENEREAL rence has been also arrived at that these several affections are identical in their nature, the princi- ple being the same in all, and the difTerences de- pending only upon the form, which is determined by the seat, and the greater or lesser intensity in the mode of action of the cause. " If (observes M. Ricord) such reasoning could once be ad- mitted, and continue without a peremptory refuta- tion, it is at the present day no longer tenable. In fact, since I have made use of the speculum uteri in the investigation of venereal diseases (see Mem. stir quelqiies Fails observes a I'Hopital des V6iieriens, par F. Ricord, insert dans le 2me fasc. t. ii, des Mem. de I'Acad. roi/ale de Med.), the enigmas, which until then were inexplicable, have been reduced to ordinary and simple facts. With the assistance of this instrument, I have seen that a woman may be affected at the same time with gonorrhoea and deep chancres in the vagina or uterus, the gonorrhoea alone manifesting itself ex- ternall}'. Under these circumstances, though the woman be regarded as a gonorrhoeal patient, she is very capable of communicating both chancre and gonorrhoea at the same time, or only one of these affections, according to the predisposition of the persons exposed to contamination. But, what we can affirm, and the observations have been nume- rous, is, that whenever we have had the opportu- nity of examining women who had communicated the disease, we have never found that a chancre arose from a discharge unaccompanied by ulceration in the genital organs of the person who had commu- nicated such sore." (See Ph. Ricord, Traite pra- tique des Mai. vin. p. 117, 8vo. Paris, 1838.) But whether the statements of M. Ricord be con- firmed by the investigations of others or not, and be capable of accounting for the exact cause of the diversity of effect produced in different persons, and even on different parts of the same individual, by one kind of virus, not a doubt can be enter- tained that, generally, climate and constitution have vast influence over the venereal disease. In all warm countries the disorder, so far as regards the natives and those who have been long settled there, is not only much milder in its symptoms, but far more easy of cure. In the West Indies, the Brazils, &c., it has for a long period of time been very commonly cured by means of sarsapa- rilla, guaiacum, mezereon, &c., without a grain of mercury. It is alleged, however, that this mild- ness of syphilitic complaints, and their facility of cure in warm climates, do not extend to strangers recently arrived there, who are said even to suffer more from the virulence of the disease than in their native climate. In Portugal, during the late war, the dreadful ravages of the venereal disease amongst the British soldiers, and its comparatively milder phenomena amongst the inhabitants of the country, were particularly noticed. " In the Bri- tish army (says Dr. Fergusson) it is probable that more men liave sustained the most melancholy of all mutilations, during the four years that it has been in Portugal, through the disease, than the registers of all the hospitals in England could pro- duce for the last century; while venereal ulcera- tion has not only been more intractable to the ope- ration of mercury than under similar circumstances at home ; but the constitution, while strongly under the influence of the remedy, has become affected with the secondary svmptoms in a proportion that Could not liave been expected. With the natives. DISEASE. on' the contrary, the disease is very mild, curable for the most part by topical treatment alone, or wearing itself out when received into the constitu- tion, after running a certain course, not always a very destruc.ive one, without the use of any ade- quate mercurial remedy, &c. The bulk of the people, and of all the military at the hospitals, even though a general order has been given out enjoining the use of mercury, cure themselves, or get cured, by other means. I have now been upwards of two years at the head of their hospital department, and I can declare that it never occurred to me, amongst all the venereal patients whom in that time I have seen pass through the hospitals, to meet a single one under the influence of mercury, excepting those cases wherein I myself have perso- nally superintended its administration. They go out cured b}' topical remedies alone ; and I have lived long enough amongst them to ascertain that their return to hospital under such circumstances for secondary symptoms is far from being an uni- versal, or even a frequent occurrence." {Med. and Chir. Trans, vol. iv, p. 1, 2.) The inference at which Dr. Fergusson arrives is, that in Portugal the disease is exhausted, and has lost mucli of its virulence, in the same manner as the natural small-pox, unresisted by inoculation, appears to have changed, in the same countr}', into a very mild disease, which does well under any mode of treatment. " Yet (says Dr. Fergusson) I have no doubt that were this mild disease, or the mildest that was ever produced from the improved inoculation of England, cominunicated to a tribe of Indians, or to a plantation of negroes, or any other class of people, who had never before known the small- pox, it would desolate with all the fury of pesti- lence, destroying wherever it could find victims, and never ceasing until it had destroyed the whole." And on the same principles, Dr. Fer- gusson attempts to explain the severe effects of the inoculation of the exhausted syphilitic virus of Portugal into the constitution of the British or other stranger, and the impossibility of curing the disease by the same treatment which answers for the natives themselves. {^Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 7, 10.) On the other hand, Mr. Guthrie does not admit that the disease which the troops con- tracted in Portugal was more violent than the same complaint in England ; or rather he admits the fact, but gives a different explanation of it from that of Dr. Fergusson ; and refers the severe effect of the disease upon the soldiers in Portugal to the operation of the climate upon their northern constitutions, and their irregularity and inteiiipe- rance, vices to which the natives are not addicted. (See Med. Chir. Tra?is. vol. viii. p. 663.) The opinion that the venereal disease was con- tinually changing in its nature, and that, in the end, it would entirely cease, is one that has been brought forward at various periods ever since its supposed importation into Europe. Von llutten would lead us to suppose that its original violence did not last more than about seven years from tne assumed period of its h\rth Qui nunc vaffa ur foe litale tolerabilior qui nunc ffrassatur vuv tllius generis esse puletur." J. Benedictusalso writes : " Tempore isto, nan repcriuntur galltcantes <'""'"'" scei-is accidentibus sicut apparncrunt ante ahqrwi annos." {De Morb. Gallico, cap. iii. an"" P"*^;^ The idea that syphilis would at some ponoQ oe