1026 WOUNDS. been " inspired with the good thought" of the ligature, the improvement in the local treatment of wounds was not great, as, from ignorant fear, every conceivable method was employed to retard union. Setons, sydons, tents, metal tubes, and other horrid contrivances were used to keep the wound open ; and if by any chance it liad closed, ingenious instruments were at hand to tear it rnde'y open again. " Vulnerary" balsams," incarnatives." " glutinanlia," " cicatrisants," made of diverse irritating and secret compositions, were poured into the depths of the wound, or forced into it on setons, so as to cause the whole surface to pass through the orthodox process of " digestion, mundilication, incarnation, and cicatrisation,' which constituted the "■more canonico," from which no "regular practitioner" dared depart without subjecting himself to the charge of heresy from his brethren, and exposing himself, it might be, to an amputation of criminality on the part of his clients. Tlie more free tlie suppuration proved, the more perl'ect and complete tlie " purg- ing" was supposed to be, yet they were not con tent to give such coveted secretion a ready issue, but caused it to be pent up by the insertion of tents between the lips of the wound. In this way trivial wounds were terribly aggravated and fre quently rendered incurable. Fistulous orifices, wasted limbs, and shattered health bore testimony but too frequently, to the ignorance and cruelty of the practitioner. Before the profession awoke to a sense of errors committed, the " irregular practitioner " had liii the blot, and had partially remedied it. Thi "secret" and "sympathetic" dressings whic) attained so great a reputation were attempts to secure the good of early recair, and yet escape tlie censure of not following the orthodox canons They desired to obtain the requisite " purging' from deleterious agencies, by which alone they would be held fiee^of blame, and yet not keep the wound open. The secret dressing of most repute was that of the " Suckers " (the Psylli and IVIersi), who with theirmouthsremoved all foreign bodies and blood from between the lips of the wound, and by the warmth of the application promoted the effusion of lymph, while they immediately closed the orifice hermetically by a plug of chewed paper held in place by a firm bandage till union was achieved. It was to" the accompanying incantations that the cleansing from injurious agencies was ascribed, but the firm closure contained the real secret. Those Avho practised this art were careful only to apply it in fitting cases, yet its success, even in the most serious wounds (as those penetrating the chest and abdomen), was such as to astonish the great ha Iilotte, and others of equal eminence. So, todj the " sympathetic " powders of Digby might well be applied indifferently to the wound, the weapon, or a cloth dipped in the blood, so long as all foreign bodies were carefully removed from the wound itself, and its lips quickly and accu- rately adjusted, and kept toaether. The "purg- ing " was of course accomplished by the magic action of the powders, but the success depended on what the attention was withdrawn from, viz. the local treatment by early adjustment. In any case where methods of treatment were adopted at direct variance with those usually followed, it was lustomaiy to ascribe them to some venerable Eastern sage, or some learned Jew, who had acquired the knowletlge among the wild tribes of the desert. Without such an introduction, it were almost vain to expect a fair trial. The lesson taught by the secret dressings was but slowly learned. As John Bell says, " the world had to be cheated into this easy method." In time, however, in different ways and degrees. Pare', Vesalius, Guillemeau. Btlloit", Petit, Gar- engeot, and Ledran adopted the improved princi- ples. Whenever the wounded arteries could be securely closed after amputation, surgeons came to pa)' attention to the shape and composition of their flaps, and to the perfecting of their union, and thus the doctrine of adhesion began to be more carefully studied, and the old practices abandoned. The acuteness and intelligence of Arhbrose Pare did not prevent him employing such hideous " vulneraries" as the famous " Oleum catellorum." which, he tell us, he learned, after two j-ears' toil, from a famous chirurgeon of Turin, who " hon- oured it with the glorious title of Balsam," and who rewarded him at last, on promise of secrecy, " with this most precious gift." It consisted of eartli worms digested in white wine, oil of lilies, turpentine, "aqua vitae," and live puppy dogs boiled in oil. The poisonous nature of gunshot wounds (supposed to be derived either from the powder or the electricity', or the heat evolved) was the rea- son given for the " pouring in " of caustic solutions and boiling oil to destroy this " venom." It was only from the accident that Par^ ran out of his store of destructive materials, that he began to use the somewhat less severe (!) applications of turpentine, and his famous " Egyptiacum," com- posed of milder caustics. In modern times we leave Nature to do more, and ivc do less, in the repair of wounds. How well does John Bell put it, when he says : " It is an old, but it is a becoming and modest thought, that in our profession we are but as ministers of Nature ; and, indeed, the surgeon, still more than the physician, achieves nothing by his o«n immediate power, but does all his services by observing and managing the properties of the liv- ing body ; when the living principle is so strong and active in every part, that by that energy alone it regenerates any lost substance or reunites in a more immediate way the more simple wounds," " We shall find our duties happily reduced within the narrowest bounds, viz. of saving the patient from immediate bleeding, and of laying the wounded parts so cleanlj', so neatly, and so evenly in contact Avith each otlier, that they may adhere. The rest we leave to Nature." The enormous advantages of early union are now well established, and many methods w.iicn profess to facilitate it have of late years atlractcQ the attention of the profession. That all lu-eniorr- hace should have ceased, so that not even blooa be left between the lips of the wound, is tuny recognised as a necessary condition to rapul a - hesion, while by exposure to the air or i" application of cold water, oozing from small Ae«e^^ is in general sufiiciently checked, llie t; arteries can be closed by ligature, torsion or acu- pressure. It is not now the custom to tollovN i practice of Listen, of leaving the wound opei tu it it is giaz .d by plastic exudation, «t."'^"^°" ally such a step has much to recommend it.