907 VARIX. veins nre never afFectfd witliout thu deep beinj at the s;vme time diseased. Tiie affection may be confined to one limb or implicate both, and in general one is worse than the other—a result which has been variously explained. Rokitansky says that it often begins in, and is most developed in tiie thigh in females, while in men it more fre- quently extends from the leg upwards. Hasse, again, says it commonly begins in the main vessel in men, and in the minute twigs in women. Both have probably formed their opinion on too narrow an induction. Sea: and Age.—The male, according to conti- nental, and the female, according to British authors, is most obnoxious to varix. Rokitansky believes them to be equally liable to it. The occupations of men would d priori lead us to believe them more subject to the affection, yet the influence of gestation in the case of the latter is very consider- able in equalising the degree of proclivity. Though it occasionally appears in the young, and may ex- tend to a lute period of life, still it is most observed in persons of middle age. The cessation of the menses marks a common period of its development in females, and Nelaton quotes two cases from Briquet, in which a flow of blood from varices was vicarious of menstruation. Constitutions and Trades liable to Varix.—Per- sons in weak health with feeble hearts and torpid circulations are perhaps most subject to extensive varicose disease, while musjular men of strong circulation are subject to the affection, though in a more limited degree, and from an opposite cause. In the case of the latter, muscular exertion is said to give rise to varix by the pressure to which the deep vessels are subjected, and in this way the affection may be developed in the upper ex- tremity. No temperament appears markedly obnoxious to varix, though many authors, ar^juing theoretically, say that the bilious peculiai-ity pre- disposes to it. M. Begin has concluded from his extensive observations made upon soldiers that the soft lymphatic temperament is not, as is generally believed, that in which varix is most apt to arise, but on the contrary, that in such constitutions the veins are peculiarly straight and narrow. Hasse, again, speaks of "a peculiar habit of body—a pre- ponderance of the venous system which manifests itself through the intervention of influences at once mechanical and dynamical." It has been said that occupations which necessitate long standing, espHcialiy if exposure to wet and cold be also borne, are thought to be a fruitful source of varix; but M. JJuchatelet has not found this confirmed among the '•dc'bardeurs" of the Seine, who remain with their feet long immersed in cold water. Washer- women, boatmen, printers, coachmen, footmen, masons, cooks, smiths, soldiers, itinerants, dancers on the tight-rope, persons who carry great weights on their backs, as porters, women who have been frequently pregnant, tall persons, and those who suffer from torpid bowels, are all said to be sub- ject to varix. The hereditary transmission of the disease, especially in the ha;niorrhoi(ial vessels, is much insisted on by some German authors, but has not been verified in this country. Jlasse laj-s it down as an axiom that " the offspring of a parent subject to one form of tlie disease is liable under propitious circinnstances to become affected with either of the other fojins." iJiai/nosis,—From what has been already said. little med be added under this head. Larger varicose vessels near the heart have been mistaken fur aneurism, from their strong pulsation, which motion was first noticed by Morgagni in tlie jugular. In thevaginaand groin many errorsof diag- nosis have been made between varices, abscesses, and herniary protrusions. M. Bonnet has drawn attention to the undulations which may be caused in a large varix filled with fluid blood when it is gently pressed by the finger, and which fact may he useful as a means of distinguishing such sacs. Treatment.—The frequency of the affection, its inconvenience, and its disagreeable results, to- gether with the difficulty and even danger which attends a cure, are reasons which sufficiently ex- plain the attention which surgery of all times and countries has paid to this affection, and the mul- titude of devices which have been suggested for its treatment. Without assenting to the long catalogue of evils which M. Briquet has enumer- ated as growing either directly or indirectly from varix, it is yet unquestionable that even in its slighter forms the uneasiness or pain, and the de- formity which is occasioned, and the annoying ulcerations, physical weakness, and suffering, as well as the mental harass which attends the aggra- vated form of the complaint, are sufficient to im- press upon us the importance of all which apper- tains to its management. In looking over the ex- tensive literature of the subject, we cannot but be struck with the extreme contradictions which prevail between the views held by different writers, not only as to the anatomical characters of the disease, its usual seat and causes, but especially as to the best method of treatment to be pursued. Many recommend as a cure what others set down as a most prevalent and potent cause; thus while there can be little doubt but that the pressure of a tumor on the main vein is a frequent cause of dilatation in the vessels on the capillary side, )-et we find cases recorded in which a tumor so placed has been represented as the cause of a spontaneous cure of varices taking place, aid means are re- commended to be employed in treating the disease, which act on the vein in the same manner. Before speaking of treatment it will be right to premise that authors worthy of credence detail in- stances of absorption having been repeatedly pro- duced by the compression used in treating varices of the lower extremity—of the disease being vicarious with the catamenia—of its appearance relieving, while its continuance warded off, otiier serious complaints, m'.uital as well as bodily. It will of course be a main point towards the treatment to discover and remove, if possible, the cause of the disease. To this end the clothes, pro- fession, and occupation of the patient must in the first instance be examined; then the local relations and conditions of the parts affected, and the state of the digestive organs in particular must be ascertained. It is, however, unquestionable that the source of the diseiise is not always to be ascer- tained, even by the most careful examination. Constitutional remedies will in the majoritj' of cases be of little use, but their employment will bo easily suggested by the particular case under observation. Tonics and good diet are often of use, while Dupuytren's lung experience coun- tenanced general bl 'od-letting, to prevent abdomi- nal congestion, in many cases in wliicii pressure was applied.