LITHOTRITY, The necessity of employing speciiil sounds and catheters in cases of enlarged prostate is well known tn all practitioners. The increased length of the urethra, and the encroachment of the en- larged lobe on the floor of the bladder, compel the surgeon to use a much longer catheter than usual. In such cases, then, the surgeon requires a long catheter of peculiar shape to draw off the urine. For the same reason—viz., the increased length of the urethra, and the depression in the floor of the bladder—he will require a long lithotrite of pecu- liar shape, in order to catch and crush the stone with ease to himself and safety to his patient. The additional length to be given to the instru- ment will, of course, depend on the elongation of the urethra; but for ordinary cases, an increase of two inches in the length of the stem will suffice. With a long lithotrite of this kind, the surgeon gets readily into the bladder; but to overcome the impediments likely to arise from an enlarged middle lobe, a peculiarly formed beak is necessary, and the pelvis must be raised. The beak or curved part of the lithotrite must be short, and the curve sharp. With an instrument of this kind the surgeon will often be able to 'fish up the i stone from the depression behind the enlarged prostate.' By turning the point down, and elevating the handle of the instrument, the stone will commonly be found in the position already mentioned. But when the middle lobe of the prostate is much enlarged, and extends some ■way into the bladder, the point of the instrument cannot be turned downwards in such a way as to reach the stone. In such cases, the pelvis of the patient must be raised so that the calculus shall be displaced towards the posterior wall of the bladder. Especial care must be taken that the pelvis itself IS raised, and not merely the lower extremities. The influence of the enlargement of the prostate in preventing the evacuation of fragments must not be overlooked. Atony or catarrh of the bladder accompanied by great irritability of its neck centra- indicate the operation, as likewise do considerable size and hardness of the stone. 5. Fungous Tumours.—What has been just stated relative to the enlarged prostate, also applies to those tumours which are usually attached near the neck of the bladder. They are not absolutely opposed to the application of lithotrity, but they contribute in general to render the operation more difficult and painful ; they may even compel the surgeon to abandon it ;iltogether. M. Civiale thinks lithotrity applicable in those cases only where the tumour is small, slightly sensitive, not subject to bleed, while at the same time there is a prospect of being able to destroy the stone in a few sittings. In some rare cases, however, the surface of the bladder presents a number of fungoid excrescences which are incrusted with calcareous deposits in such quantity that the presence of a large stone may be suspected. As this condition indicates an advanced stage of disease, it .contra-indicatcs lithotrity ab- solutely. Columnar and Sacculated Bladder.—These conditions of the bladder are well known, and the former very often accompanies vesical calculus. M. Civiale docs not regard them as contra-indicating per se the operation, and details several cases in which he succeeded in crushing calculi that were distinctly sacculated. Still it would appear that only the projecting'portions of the calculi were 265 destroyed. When this condition of encysted stone IS accompanied by atony of the bladder, with or without catarrh, M. Civiale thinks that the ope- ration had better not be attempted. 7. Catarrh of the Bladder. — Catarrh of the bladder often complicates stone, of which it may be either a cause or an effect. To determine the influence which it may exercise over the results of the operation, it is highly necessary to examine whether it be a mere effect of the presence of a foreign body in the bladder, or the result of some morbid condition of that viscus. It is especially necessary to distinguish the catarrh connected with atony of the bladder from that form which is as- sociated with hypertrophy. However, if an ope- ration be attempted, it is an indispensable condition that the stone be small. To this rule M. Civiale points out an exception. When the formation of stone is an effect of the catarrhal state it is usually soft and phosphatic, and hence its size forms no objec- tion. Purulent catarrh is a very serious complica- tion. When the bladder contracts violently, and the expulsion of urine is accompanied by considerable pain, the existence of ulceration is to be feared ; and in such case, as well as in all others where the contractility of the bladder is greatly augmented, lithotrity is inapplicable, unless, indeed, we have the certainty of being able to destroy the stone in a short time. 8. Renal Disease. — Of all the affections by which stone may be complicated, renal diseases are the most frequent, the most serious, and at the same time the most insidious. These affections can, however, only influence the results of the operation, and the only question which the surgeon has to determine is how far the existing disease of the kidney may be aggravated by the manipulations necessary for the destruction of the calculus. Upon this point M. Civiale does not express any decided opinion. In the writer's opinion, lithotrity is indicated in all cases where the operation can be performed in a safe manner and with a reasonable expectation of denying from it those results which it is capable of yielding. Now, to ensure these results and the safe execution of the manipulations, certain con- ditions are requisite. Thus, we must be able to introduce our instruments into the bladder. Hav- ing introduced them, we must be able to seize and fix the calculus. Having fixed the stone, we must be able to break it up into small fragments, and the fragments thus comminuted must have a ready exit from the bladder. Finally, these various steps of the operation must be performed without exciting any serious disorder in the urinary organs without aggravating in a dangerous way any dis- order which may already exist, or witliout'inflicting any important injury on the general health of the patient. To perform lithotrity in a successful manner, the difterent conditions which have been just enumerated must be strictly fulfilled; and wo have, therefore, only to ascertain what circum- stances prevent the fulfilment of these conditions in order to discover the indications and contra- indications of lithotritj'. Whenever in any n case the surgeon cannot entertain a reasonable hope of attaining the conditions which are essen- tially necessary to a successful performance of the operation, the latter is contra-indicated. The chief circumstances on which the applica- bility of lithotrity in any given case mainly de-