624 SPINE, CURVATURES OF, lateral curvature of the spine essentially uncon- nected with any constitutional disorder or here- d tary predisposition to this affection, have now been enumerated. The importance to be attached to the disturbed balance of muscidar power—un doubted ly existing in manj" of these cases—as an active cause in the production of the deformity, will be diiferently valued by those who study these affections, according to the leaning they may have towards the different theories of the production of lateral curvature in its more ordinary forms; but according to the physiological views, already ex- plained, I am induced to attach a higher degree of importance to the mechanical effect of the long continuance of certain positions, in the production of which, the muscles are often entirely passive. In many positions assumed b}' healthy muscular people when certain muscles are called powerfully into action, the muscular force seems to be exerted rather to prevent or limit any curvature of the spine, than to produce or increase it, the muscles in the concavity of curves, as a rule, remaining soft and inactive, whilst those on the convexity of the curves are tense and prominent; and when curvature of the spine exists as a morbid condition, the muscles will, as a general rule, be found in the same state. TREATMENT. 1st Class.—Cases essentially of coiisiiiulional origin, or in ivldch the co?istilutio?ial laryely pre- duminute over the local causes, the spinal curvature generally occurring under Iwelve years of aye. The treatment of these cases must be both con- stitutional and local. When occurring in infancy or early childhood, an abundance of good milk must be ensured, and cod-liver-oil may be rubbed externall}^ over the entire body and limbs every niiilit and morning. Three grains of the hypo- phosphite of lime may be given twice a day in milk, and a teaspoonful of wine once or twice a day in arrowroot. Fluid or solid animal food according to circumstances. The local treatment should consist in the appli- cation of a strong leather support to the spine, moulded to the form of the back, and fastened in front by an elastic india-rubber belt. The child must never be nursed in the sitting position, but always be carried and nursed upon a pillow, or what is called a nursing a-adle may be used. In a cheap form this kind of support may be imitated by gutta-percha moulded to the back and retained in position by an ordinary bandage. In slight cases this support need not be worn at night. In children from seven to twelve years of age a light steel support should be worn, with crutches, and one or two lateral plates according to circum- stances. The long continuance of the sitting and standing positions must be avoided as much as possible, and the reclining position enforced as far iis it may be compatible with the general health. Ward's reclining chiiir should be habitually used, which, having a desk attached, will be found use- ful during the hours devoted to educational pur- poses. Muscidar exercises or gymnastics should also be combmed wi h partial recumbency and mechanical support in these cases. In proportion as the ciu- vature predominates in the lumbar region, the re- cumbent position should be enforced, and the gym- nastic exercises conducted wbilst the patient is in the horiaontal position, by means of an cxcrcisitu/ plane, to which various contrivances may be adapted for exercising the upper and lower extremities, and also the spinal muscles. These cases require a watchful care, and treat- ment according to the principles indicated for a lengthened period, it may be for three or four years, and in some cases even for ten years or more. 2nd Class.—Cases depending upon conslitulional and local causes in about eqiuil proporlionn, gene- rally oecurri?ig between the ages of iwelve and six- teen years. The treatment in this class of cases must be both local and constitutional in most instances. The gene- ral health may be improved by the exhibition of cod-liver-oil, iron and lime, together with a nutri- tious diet amounting to high living, with wine or beer, and also change of air, either to the sea-side or country. The local treatment should consist of partial re- cumbency, gymnastic exercises, and mechanical support, combined in various proportions, according to the severity and situation of the curvature, and the general condition of the patient as to muscular debility or otherwise. The recmnhetit position in proportion as the curvature predominates in the lumbar region, and in these cases gymnastic exer- cises should be conducted as much as possible in the liorizontal position by means of the exercising p'ane. Gymnastic exercises in proportion to the evidence of general muscular debility; but I con- sider gymnastics to be essentially preventive rather than curative, and therefore recommend them more especially in cases of iveak spines, or weak spines passing into confirmed curvature. Alechanical sup- port in all cases in which the spinal cnrvuturo is confirmed, and more especially where it predomi- nates through the middle and lower parts of the dorsal region. The spinal instruments I recommend are of two forms, that for slight cases in young and delicate girls is a modification of the apparatus known as the Eagland spinal support, but strengthened and otherwise improved bj' the addition of a cog-wheel with lateral action bj"^ which the lever is moved, and the arm-pieces raised in front; the steel belt should also be made to close and fasten in front. The other form of instrument is of much str<inger construction, having a flat circular pelvic belt, and one or two lateral plates attached to separate levers, the dorsal plate being made to move iu several directions for the purpose of accurate adap- tation, and especiallj' having a horizontal circular cog-wheel, hy means of which it may be moved in the direction of horizontal rotation. This latter instrument requires careful and frequent adjust- ment. The cases included in the second class are gene- rally the most curable, and if submitted to treat- ment before any obvious external deformity occurs, are generally cured within one or two years, whilst in the more advanced stages the curvature could certaiidy be arrested. 3rd Class.— Cases esseniially depending npnn local causes, acting mechanically so as to disturb the eipiilibnum of the spinal column—occurring at any period of life. The treatment in these cases must be essentially