634 SUPPURATION ■water, is the best substitute. "While these remedies are preparing, copious draughts of some mucila- ginous beverage, milk, or even of common water, should be administered without delay ; for the practitioner should ever be mindful, that so rapidly does sulphuric acid operate upon the texture of the parts with which it comes into contact, that all chance of saving the patient must depend upon the quickness with which the means to counteract this poison are applied. (Orfila, Traite. des Poi- sons, ^c, vol. i. p. 434, ed. 2.) SUPPRESSION OF URINE. A stoppage of the secretionof urine. (See Urine, Retention op.) SUPPURATION. A process by which a pe- culiar fluid, termed pus, is formed in the substance, or on the surface, of parts of the body. When purulent matter accumulates in the part affected, whether in a natural cavity or in the sub- stance of an organ, there is said to be an abscess, ■which is distinguished into several kinds—acute, chronio, scrofulous, ^c. (See Abscess.) period, without any perceptible disturbance of the constitution. The constitutional symptoms, which attend the formation of pus in the progress of chronic sup- purations, are generally comprehended under the name of hectic fever. (See Abscess ; Feveks.) [The signs .ind symptoms by which the exist- ence of suppuration may be known, are of three kinds : 1st, the touch, or other physical signs ; 2ndly, by inference from certain symptoms; 3rdly, by inference from certain interferences with the functions of organs. The touch, the education of which into a iactus eruditus is a prime point in surgical education, detects in the seat of inflam- matory pain an unusual fulness, owing to the pre- sence of fluid. If this fluid be confined in a Symptoms op Suppuration. When matter is fully formed there is a change, or even a remission of some of the symptoms. The throbbing pain, which was experienced so severely on the approach of suppuration, from acute phlegmonous inflammation, now subsides, and the patient complains of a more dull, con- stant, and heavy pain in the part. A conical emi- nence, or pointing, as it is termed, mostly takes place at some part of the tumor, generally near its middle. In this situation, a whitish or yellow- ish appearance is observable, instead of a deep red, which was previously apparent ; and a fluctuation under it may be discovered, on a careful examina- tion with the fingers. Sometimes, indeed, when an abscess is thickly covered with muscles and other parts, the fluctuation cannot be easily distinguished, though,from other concurring circumstances, hardly a doubt can be entertained of there being even a very considerable collection of matter. An oedema- tous swelling, over the situation of deeply situated abscesses, is a symptom which sometimes throws light on cases of this description. Skill in detecting the existence of deep abscesses is a circumstance of the highest importance in practice, and one, which greatly contributes to the practitioner's reputation. In no part of sur- gery is experience of greater use to him than in the present ; and however simple this part of his duty may appear, yet nothing, it is certain, more readily distinguishes a man of observation and extensive practice, than his being able easily to detect collections of deep-seated matter. On the contrary, nothing so materially injures the cha- racter and professional credit of a surgeon, as his having in such cases given an inaccurate prognosis; for their nature is at last clearly demonstrated to all concerned. When matter is formed upon the natural sur- faces of the body which are connected with vital organs, much irritation and disturbance take place; but, when matter is produced upon the surface of a wound, or upon parts of little vital importance, then its formation is often unpreceded by irritative fever. (See Sir Astley Cooper's Lec- tures, ^c. vol. i. p. 113.) Pus may continue to be produced from the mucous membrane of the urethra, or from a chronic ulcer, for an indefinite tolerably firm envelope, fluctuation may be pro- duced by alternate pressure of the fingers of either hand. If the boundaries of the abscess offer no resistance, there may be, instead of fluctuation, a doughy or boggy feeling. When fluctuation suc- ceeds inflammatory hardness, the evidence of sup- puration is irresistible. If the suppuration be very deep-seated, it may be judicious to confirm the diagnosis by the aid of an exploring needle. The physical signs of fluid in the chest, pericardium, and joints will often lead the practitioner to diag- nose suppuration, when the preceding and accom- panying symptoms are such as to render such diagnosis probable. The symptoms of suppuration vary according to local circumstances. Sometimes it is attended with a remission of pain, as in the very common abscess of the gums accompanying decayed teeth. On the other hand, if the matter be so circum- stanced as to create great tension:—under any thick cuticle, for instance, on the sole of the foot, under fascia or periosteum—the pain and consti- tutional disturbance are greatly increased. The diagnosis of abscess in the deep-seated in- ternal organs, and especially the brain, from the existing disturbance of functions, is one of the most difficult points in medical practice.] (See Head, Injuries of.) Together with the several local symptoms of the presence of pus may be mentioned the fre- quent shiverings to which patients are liable, es- pecially on the first formation of acute abscesses. However, these rigors seldom occur so as to be distinctly observed, unless the collection of mat- ter be considerable, suddenly produced, or deeply situated in some of the viscera. " In the pro- gress of the fever, accompanying acute inflam- mation (says Professor Thomson), rigors, or cold shiverings, not unfrequently take place, which re- cur at irregular intervals, and are in general fol- lowed by a hot fit, and slight increase of the febrile symptoms. These rigors, or cold shiverings, m general indicate, when they occur in the progress of inflammatory diseases, that pus either is formed, or is about to be so. In inflammation, succeeding to injuries of the head, these rigors are often the first constitutional symptoms which give alarm to the well-informed practitioner; for they are gene- rally, though not always, an indication that in- flammation has already made a d-angerous, if not fiital progress. These rigors also accompany the formation of pus in the viscera contained within the cavities of the chest and belly; and are often the first symptoms which inform the practitioner that his endeavours to procure resolution have not