6G2 ■ SURGERY been tied, previouslj' to the publication of the 6th edition of this work; a proceeding which, though it was originally suggested here, was not ventured upon in Great Britain until very recently, when it was executed by Mr. Lizars. The result, how- ever, like that of the two earlier cases, was the loss of the patient. Whether the ligature of the inno- minata is a justifiable proceeding, appears to me a questionahle point; for experience has not yet adduced anything in its favour. All the patients on whom it has been performed, have died of second- ary hfemorrhages, and Brasdor's plan, as adopted by Wardrop and Mott, which brings with it the re- commendation of occasional success, may be a safer expedient. (See Aneurism.) Weiss's aneu- rismal needle, and some others, intended for the conveyance of the ligature under very deep arte- ries, where there is but little room, are also inven- tions likely to prove of material service in this branch of surgery, where sometimes the most skil- ful surgeons have either been baffled in their endeavour to pass the ligature under the vessel, or have detained their patient so long in the operating- room, exposed to the greatest agony, ere the busi- ness was accomplished, that the chance of a happy issue was seriously lessened. Before I quit this subject, my feelings call upon me to express the high opinion which I entertain of my friend Mr. Hodgson's TriLiiise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, first puhlished in 1815; a work which re- flects great credit on English surgery, and contains practical precepts far superior to those of Scarpa. In the modern practice of surgery, a variety of old prejudices are gradually vanishing. Peru- vian bark, not many years ago, was regarded as a sovereign remedy and specific for nearly all cases of gangrene; and in these, and many other_ in- stances, it was prescribed without any discrimina- tion, and in doses beyond all moderation. But the false idea, that this medicine, or any prepara- tion of it, has any specific effect in checking morti- fication, no longer blinds the senses of the most superficial practitioner. He neither believes this doctrine, nor the still more absurd opinion, that strength can be mysteriously extracted from this vegetable substance, and communicated to the human constitution, in proportion to the quantity which can be made to remain in the stomach. At the present day, the subject of mortifica- tion opens to us a point for investigation of first- rate consequence. Every surgeon is aware, that when a limb is deeply affected with mortification, amputation is commonly necessary. This is gene- rally acknowledged ; but the performance of the operation has, since the time of Pott, only been sanctioned when the mortification has manifestly ceased to spread, and a line of separation been formed between the dead and living parts. _ All other patients, in whom the disorder was in a spreading state, were left to their fate. It is true, some of the old surgeons occasionally ventured to deviate from this precept ; but, as they did so without any discrimination, or knowledge of the particular examples which ought to form an excep- tion to the general rule, their ill success cannot constitute a just argument against tlie plan of am- putating earlier in a certain description of cases. Now, if it be proved by modern experience, that many lives may be saved by a timely pcrroimance of amputation, under circumstances in which it has until lately been generally condemned, it must be allowed that the established innovation will be one of the greatest improvements in the practice of the present time. For reviving the consideration of this question, and venturing to deviate from the beaten path, the world is much indebted to that eminent military surgeon, Baron Larrey. How diifercnt bis doc- trines and practice are from those usually taught in the schools, the article Mortification will sufficiently prove. Connected with this topic is Hospital Gangrene, a case which deserves here to be pointed out, as having received considerable attention of late years, and being much better treated, since the efficacy of the solution of arsenic, and of the strong nitrous acid, has been so completely proved by the obser- vations of Blackadder and Welbank. In the treatment of ununited fractures, the sim- ple and ingenious practice, suggested by Dr. Pliy- sick of Philadelphia, merits particular notice: various successful trials have been made of it in this country and France, as well as in America, and, though liable to failure, it is yet entitled to be regarded as a valuable addition to the plans hitherto devised for these cases, which too often render the patient a helpless cripple during life. The considerations, however, which should guide us in the choice of a plan for bringing about the union of fractures, which have not admitted of bony union under ordinary treatment, have not been neglected in their proper place. See Frac- ture. The inestimable treatise of Dr. Jones, On He- morrliage, may be said to have produced quite a revolution in all the principles by which the sur- geon is guided in the employment of the ligature for the stoppage of bleeding, and the cure of aneu- risms. Instead of thick clumsy cords, small firm silks, or threads, are now generally used ; and so fill? is the practitioner from being fearful of tying arteries too tightly, lest the ligature cut through them, that it is now a particular object with hira to apply the silk, or thread, with a certain degree of force, in order that the middle and inner coats of the vessel may be divided. If this be not done, the effusion of fibrine within the artery, an impor- tant part of the process of obliteration, cannot be expected as a matter of certainty, and secondary hsemorrhage is more likely to occur. But, in order to convey an adequate idea of the beneficial changes Which Dr. Jones's observations are tending to produce in practice, I have been careful, in the article Hemorrhage, to give a tolerably full ac- count of the results of all his interesting experi- ments. , , Dr. Veitch, an eminent naval surgeon, deserves here to be mentioned with particular honour, since he is probably the earliest writer that laid due stress on the advantage of tying the arteries with very small ligatures ; one of the greatest improve- ments in the treatment of wounds and in operative surgery, " My experience and reasoning (says he) led me to recommend a small ligature ; and its nature and form were not loft to conjecture, but dearly laid down ; and the introduction of tliis practice to surgery is, I tl""^, nnqucstmnab y due lo me. Dr. Jones did not apply his ''""■f I'S-f;"/ to operations on the human body ; and the prac- ice'^of using the small single ligature was not adopted at the Edinburgh Infirmary in which city his experiments were made, until the appear-