TRACHEOTOMY, wards into the larynx. Luers' ball valve is an ad- mirable addition, as it allows of articulation. The Bubdivisinn of the extremity of the inner tube into-.mall aperuirss 13 a givat liisativ.-mtiisre. Whatever form of tub.' is eraploved. it should be freqiiei tly and carefully cleaned, either by beiim withdrawn and washed, which is best, or a feather or a small bit of soft sponge attached to whalelione inserted so as to remove all foreign bodies. Vari- ous ingenious forceps liave been invented for pas- sing through the canula and removing slireds of false membrane, &c. Even this, however, is not enough to insure cleanliness. Inspissated gummy mucus may so adhere to the extremity of the outer tube, even when shorter than the inner one, as to embarrass the respiration. This is best got quit of by introducing a feather or a small heated and oiled elastic catheter. Pouring in a little ■warm water (and a good deal may thus with ad- vantage be from time to time introduced if the interior of the canal becomes dry) or heated oil \yill also be found useful. This promotes expectora- tion and the expulsion of any foreign body. Any large portion of thick mucus or false membrane must be withdrawn with forceps. If it be wished to withdraw the outer tube as well as the inner, it can be safely done by first introducing an elastic catheter. This will serve as a guide fur the rein- trodiiction of the tube and also as a breathing pas- sage till the canula is returned. For fastening the canula in its place a ribbon, or, what is better, an elastic india-rubber cord may be used, which should be tied sufficiently tight to prevent the risk of a cough displacing it, and yet not so firmly as tn embarrass the circulation. A hook and eye on the ends of the cords will secure them. Chassaignac proposes to attach the canula to a long pin, made to traverse both lips of the wound at its upper angle, to which it is fixed by a thread applied as in the twisted suture. "It is of the utmost consequence after the operation to keep the air of the apartment moist and warm hy boiling water in the room and conducting tlie steam towards the patient's bed by means of tin pipes. If this is attended to, not only will there be less risk of the canula closing, but the chances of inflammatory action occurring in the bronchia or lungs will be greatly diminished. The tem- perature of the apartment should be uniform and about 65 deg. All mucus, saliva, &c., should be at once wiped away, and a piece of muslin loosely put over the orifice of the tube to prevent the entrance of dust, and retain the moist hot air of respiration. If the tube is worn continuously, a knitted worsted muflaer should be placed round the neck and over the orifice of the canula when the patient is out of doors. It is probably more in the careful nursing and surveillance of the patient after operation than in the performance of the operation itself, that success IS to be obtained in tracheotomy. Trousseau and others drop in, or swab, the inie iir of the wind- pipe alter it is opened in croup and diphtheria for some days with a solution of nitrate of silver (ten or twenty grains to the ounce), and they believe that this diminishes irritation, and also the tendency to the formation of false membranes. SJoietness, absence of all sources of bodily or iiienta irritation, and the regulation of tlie s.-cre- ons by the simplest means, with a nourishing "iia easily digested diet, comprises the after treat- ment. By closing the end of the tube with the finger, the patient can articulate and expectorate. The complications which may arise after tracheo- tomy are luemorrhiige ; emphysema (fr.m too liini ed a superficial wound or the parallelisin be- tween t e external and internal wounds being hist, or the tube being displaced), abscess in the medi- astinum, from the tube having been inserted be- tween the trachea and the soft parts, and so causing inflammation. Asphyxia also, from too delayed operation, the blood having become con- taminated—injury to the trachea from its having been pierced or bruised—a vein in the oesophagus having been opened, or that canal injured- fistula—inflammation of the air tubes or lung sub- stance, &c., &c., are possible results. Pericarditis, too, has been attributed to the operation. The length of time the tube is to be worn, will, of course, mainly depend on the object for which it was introduced. From six to ten days is the average in cases of croup, but the restoration of the larynx to activity may be delayed for weeks. In any case the tube should not be withdrawn till it is loosened by suppuration. It should be replaced, if respiration continues embarrassed, after a short time, and at first it should always be re- introduced during the night. Fear, tlie loss of the habit, and a certain want of power in the muscles of the larynx, together with the presence of dry mucus, or some shreds of false membrane, may cause the breathino; to be difiicult for a time after the tube is taken out, but this will shortly disappear. It may be that the canula cannot be at once dispensed with, but must be given up by degrees. It should be disused at first, only for a short time, and that during the day, and again had recourse to till the parts are" restored to their function. In taking out the tube the greatest gentleness should be employed, so as to prevent the child crying. M. Broca uses a canula which can be gradually closed, and thus the action of the glottis increased as it is capable of resuming its function. The canula can undoubt- edly be borne with impunity for years if it is carefully looked to and kept clean, and occasionally removed, so as to avoid the risk of its breaking, and portions falling into the air passage. When it can with safety be dispensed with, it should, however, be discontinued. The wound will heal spontaneously, or will demand onlj' the simplest treatment. If the canula is to be left long in place, a valved instrument should be used. The evils which may attend the prolonged use of the canula are ulceration, troublesome suppurations, hffiinorrhage, necrosis of the cartilages; ossification and contraction of the windpipe. These evils are, however, more apt to attenti the long use of the canula after laryngotomy than tracheotomy. F'lr a few days after tracheotomy (and lasting usually about a week) much annoyance is fre- quently occasioned by the difliculty in swallowing, and the escape of the fluid portions of the food b}' the tracheal wound, and into the air passages. This causes much irritation, and what is even worse, from the necessity to success of dulj' nourishing the patient, occasions great dislike to food. Solid food docs not cause this annoyance, and should therefore be mostly used. IMeat in pulp, thii'k soup, arrowroot, eggs, &c., suit well. A small piece of ice laid on the tongue, or swalloned entire, will quench thirst. If fluid is given at ail,