1 IRIS, CONGENIT by a verj- loaded condition of the vessels, and a full, strong pulse, in which the local abstraction of blood is very useful, and very much assists the action of mercury. All local applications should be of a warm and soothing character; cold in every shape is decidedly contra-indicated; all astringents or stimulating collyria are worse than useless. The extract of belladonna, applied to the brow with a view of preventing or removing adhesions, is recommended by most writers : it may beiipplied at the commencement and towards the close of the disease. Rheumatic Iritis.—It most commonly attacks persons about the middle period of life, in whom some constitutional tendency to rheumatism exists; the symptoms are of a severe and distressing cha- racter; the attack is ushered in by a feelinj; of full- ness and tenderness about the eyeball, soon followed by profuse lachryniation and some intole- rance of light; the pain is intermittent, and is chiefly referred to the eyebrow and temple, and even to the cheek and side of the nose; these symptoms, and especially the pain, are usually much ai!gravated towards night; after a short time vision becomes cloudy and dim. This disease usually attacks one eye at a time, although both are sooner or later involved. On examining the eye it is highly injected, and on looking more minutely, the vessels are found to be situated in the sclerotic coat; they are deep-seated, nume- rous, but small, and finely pencilled of a pink colour, and pursuing a straight course towards the cornea, around which they form a capillary plexus ; the conjunctiva is usually but slightly involved, a few large loose returning veins being chiefly visible, and being readily distinguishable from the sclerotic vascularity, which is a main feature of the disease. On examining the iris, the pupil is found con- tracted and immovable, the colour changed usually to a greenish tinge, the surface is dull, and the healthy texture of the iris is no longer visible, the little irregularities being coated over by a thin film that unifornilj' pervades it, and does not present any tubercle, or even any thickening deposit at the pupil- lary margin, as we observe in ordinary iritis. In severe cases, and especially after repeated relapses or fresh attacks, the capsule becomes cloudy,and, as a result of this, the siyht is impaired. A thin, white line around the margin of the cornea, and a frothy character of the secretion, also indicate this form of inflammation, but their absence by no means con- tra-indicates it. Combined with these local signs, we usually find some constitutional evidences of rheumatic diathesis; the powers of the system are at a low ebb, the various si cretions are in a vj. tiated state, the tongue is foul, of a white3'-brown colour, and coated over its entire surface; the urine 18 high coloured, turbid, and scanty; the skin is usually moist, with a tendency to night perspi- rations; the pulse is rather weak,quick,and irritable. The more immediate and exciting cause of the attack is generally to be found in a prolonged ex- posure of the eye to a stream of cold air, to a humid state of the atmosphere, and to the inju- dicious use of cold applications to the eyelids. This form of inflammation often follows injuries of the eye, and operations performed upon this organ in persons prone to rheumatism, and sub- jected to premature exposure or prolonged use of cold lotions. A favourable prognosis may gene- rally be given if the disease is seen in the early AL DEFECTS OE. 105 stage, and if it is a first attack; that which we have particularly to fear is a relapse during treat- ment, and a return after treatment, which is very discouraging. The treatment must be constitutional and local. In the constitutional treatment the secretions must be acted upon ; drastic purgatives are useful combined with diuretics, and if the rheumatic diathesis is strong, colchicum is very valuable, if the general powers admit of its administration. If the system is feeble, iodide of potassium is a useful substitute, and if the iris is much affected, it may be necessary to exhibit mercury ; but though it may clear the surface of the iris, it will not con- trol the inflammation of the fibrous tissue, which is the texture primarily and chiefly implicated. In cases that are very protracted, when the vessels are considerably congested, when the sight is a good deal impaired, and the various medicines seem to fail, turpentine has been strongly recommended. It may be given in doses varying from a scruple to half a drachm, in a mixture, three times a day, carefully watching its effect in the latter stages of . the disease; and sometimes combined with more active treatment. If the system be feeble, if the skin act freely, and if the pain assumes an inter- mittent and periodic type, steel, quinine, and bark may be given. When the pain is very intense and protracted, and after the secretions have been freely acted upon, opiates may be given with great ad van tage. We may now consider the local treatment. In severer cases, and in the earlj' stage, local bleeding by means of leeches, or, what is still better, by cupping on the temple, is highly useful, and some- times cuts short the attack. The effect may be kept up by the application of a blister, either to the temple or forehead; the paiii over the brow may be often relieved by rubbing in mercurial ointment combined with opium, in the strength of one drachm to an ounce, to the seat of pain each night and morning, for five or ten minutes; if the surface is blistered it may be dressed with this ointment. Warm appliciitions are usually the most agreeable to the patient, and the most suit- able for the disease; but even here exceptions occur in which cold gives relief, and then it is better to allow it. As to the propriety of using belladonna, it may be remarked, that in the early stage, when the iris is but slightly affected, it is useful to enlarge the pupil; and when the disease is subsiding, the same effect may be produced with advantage; but during the active and fully de- veloped stages of the disease, when the iris is thoroughly involved, belladoima often gives great pain, and does not influence the size of the pupil. The disease now described may be complicated with a catarrhal affection of the conjunctiva. This has been termed catarrho-rheumatic ophthalmia. (See Lectures on Diseases of the Eye, by Air. C'ritchelt. Lancet, September, 1854.) Consult also the works mentioned under the article Conjunclivitis.'] C. Dader. [IRIS, CONGENITAI; DEFECTS OF Tlllil.—The irides are sometimes wholly absent, a condition which lias been termed Iridereniia; but in most of the cases which are so denominated, there really exists a slight rudiment of iris, which, on close observation, may be traced as a very narrow, coloured ring—or more commonly as a