SCROFULA. SS7 much on the decline; and that the convolutions of lymphatic vessels, forming the glands, are quite pervious, and may readily be injected, even when diseased, a fact, first demonstrated by Soemmer- ring, is one that must weigh heavily against this opinion. Sir A. Cooper describes the disease as proceeding from congenital debility, wliich attends its whole course, and imparts to it a peculiar cha- racter, rendering the various processes of inflam- mation in it slow and imperfect. With respect to the exciting causes, Mr. John Hunter remarks that, " in this country, the tendency to scrofula arises from the climate, which is in many a predisposing cause, and only requires some derangement to be- come an immediate cause, and produce the whole disease. {On the Venereal Disease, p. 26.) The disease is remarked to be most common in females; in cold, damp, marshy countries, and in all places near high mountains, where the temperature is subject to great vicissitudes. " Nous voyons pres- que toujours (says Alibert) que les tumeurs et les nlceres se rouvrent au printemps pour se ferrner ensuite vers la canicule." {N'osol. Nainrelle, p. 449.) Mr. Hunter notices slight fevers, colds, small- pox, and measles, as exciting scrofulous diseases. He observes, that in particular countries, and in young people, there will sometimes be a predispo- sition to scrofula ; and that, in such subjects, bu- boes will more readily become scrofulous. (P. 37.) In short, it was one of Mr. Hunter's opinions, that the venereal disease is capable of calling into action snch susceptibilities as are remarkably strong, and peculiar to certain constitutions and countries; and that, as scrofula is predominant in this country, some effects of other diseases may partake of a scrofulous nature. (P. 96.) Mr.Hunter, in speak- ing of venereal buboes, mentions his having long suspected a mixed case, and adds, "I am now cer- tain that such exists. I have seen cases where the venereal matter, like a cold, or fever, has only irritated the glands to disease, producing in them scrofula, to which they were predisposed. In such cases the swellings commonly arise slowly, give but little pain, and seem to be rather hastened in their progress, if mercurj' is given to destroy the venereal disposition. Some come to suppura- tion while under this resolving course; and others, which probably had a venereal taint at first, be- come so indolent that mercury has no eflfect upon them; and, in the end, they get well of themselves, or by other means." (P. '269.) For such buboes, Mr. Hunter used to recommend sea-bathing; and, in case of suppuration, poultices made of sea-water. Sir A. Cooper observes, that the predisposing cause of scrofula is congenital, or original fault of constitution. The exciting causes, he says, are whatever tends to produce or increase debility, such as fever from diseases of a specific kind, like measles, scarlet fever, and small-pox. He notices the greater frequency on this account of scrofulous cases some years ago, when the advantages of vae- cinatiim were not known; and the importance of this practice to society, if it had no other recom- mendation. In the words of a well-informed Professor, scro- fula readily forms an alliance with almost every morbid affection, occurring either from external in- jury or from internal disease: it modifies the appearance of other diseases, and seems to convert them gradually into its own nature, Indeed, tliere are few of the local inflammatory affections which occur in this country, in which the symptoms and effects of these affections, and the operation of the food and remedies employed for their cure, are not more or less modified by the degree of scrofulous diathesis, which prevails in the constitution of those who are affected by them. The scrofulous diathesis, wherever it exists, usually gives more or less of a chronic character to local inflainmatorj- affections. {Thomson's Lectures, p. 131.) Sentiments, corresponding to some of those al- ready quoted, are delivered by Dr. Alison : "The facts," says he, " which seem most decisive, as to the connection of the scrofulous habit with general debilitating causes, may be recapitulated as fo'- lows :—1. The differences in the symptoms and progress of inflammation, when scrofulous, and when healthy, appear manifestly to indicate in the former case a languid state of the circulation, par- ticularly in the capillary vessels of the diseased part. 2. The hereditary disposition to scrofula is chief!)' transmitted from parents, and is mostly observed in children, who show evident marks of constitutional debility in other respects. 3. There is no state of the body, as every practitioner knows, in which scrofulous action is so easily excited, as the state of great and often permanent debility which remains after severe febrile disease,continued fever, SMiall-pox, measles, scarlatina, or which follows the long-continued use of mercury', or ac- companies amenorrhcea. 4. The season, at which scrofulous diseases have been observed to prevail most in this climate, is not that when cold wea- ther has recently set in, and is most productive of disease in general, but the end of the winter and the spring; and they are then chiefly observed in those young persons, who have manifestly lost strength during the continuance of the cold weather." {Alison, in Edin. Med. C/iir. Trans vol. i. p. 381.) It has been the fashion of late 3'ears to ascribe the origin of a vast number of diseases to disorder of the digestive organs, little trouble being gene- rally taken to consider, with any impartiality, whether the derangement of those organs may not be rather the common effect, than the common cause, of so many various diseases. Numerous circumstances tend to perpetuate the delusion, into which young practitioners are falling upon this topic. They see various diseases, attended with dyspepsia, flatulence, loss of appetite, costive- ness, and a torpid state of the bowels; they ob- serve that such diseases and the latter complaints of the alimentary canal generally diminish toge- ther ; that, when the functions of the stomach and bowels are deranged, any other diseases, which the patient may be labouring under, either grow worse, or arc retarded in their amendment; and, lastly, the treatment, to which the theory'leads' improves the health, by rectifying the state of the alimentary canal, and the sore, tumor, or other complaint, in the end, with the additional aid of time, nature, and other favourable circumstances gets well. But, however simple, safe, and bene- ficial the practice may be, and plain as the facts are, which lead to it, there is no proof that the other disea.se was truly a consequence of the dis- order of the digestive organs. The latter symptom, I believe, is very frequently an effect mistaken for a cause, and perhaps, always so, in relation to scrofula. Besides, if it were to be assumed (as