LITHOTOMY. [Lilholomy in children.—In consequence of the improvements which have been made of late years in tlie practice of lithotrity in adults, a very large proportion of the patients now submitted to li tliotomy are children under ten years of age. The results of lithotomy in children are very satisfac- tory, the mortality being probably not more than iibuut 1 in 30. They seem to be but little liable to urinary infiltration, or diffuse suppuration in the pelvic cellular tissue, although from the small size of the parts the incision must often pass beyond the limits of the prostate. The operation has been generally considered to be easier in the child than in the adult ; and perhaps under favourable ciicumstances this may be the case. The fact, how- ever, must not be accepted without reservation ; the small size of the parts, especially the prostate gland, must be duly considered, and too free incisions in the deep parts must be specially guarded against. But in addition to this there are some points deserving of particular notice, an insufficient appre- ciation of which may at any time give rise to difficult}-, and has probably occasioned many of tlie failures in the accomplishment of the opera- tion which have been kno\vn to occur ; which failures are without doubt more frequent in the child than in the adult subject. In the first place, the bladder in the child is situated higher in the pelvis than in the adult, consequently it is com- paratively deeper from the surface of the peri- neum ; again, its cellular connexions with sur- rounding parts are much more lax, and there- fore it is more easily displaced from its normal po- sition by any undue violence during the operation. It results fror.i this, that the deep incision may not be carried far enough, or that the knife may push the prostate before it, and the bladder may not be opened at all. Under such circumstances, the surgeon will find that, although the groove of the staff is freely exposed, his finger will not pass along it into the bladder, but the latter recedes before his finger, and a space is created between the rectum and bladder which may very easily be, and without doubt very often has been, mis- taken for the bladder itself. If force is used with the finger, the urethra may even be torn completely across, and the bladder pushed up- wards, till the finger penetrates into the cellular space between the bladder and the pubic sym- physis. The knowledge of these sources of diffi- culty is no new thing to those experienced in lithotomy ; nevertheless, it has not always been sufficiently insisted on by surgical writers, and beginners are seldom aware of the depth to which Jt may be necessary to carry the incision in children, or of the facility with which they may become involved in the misadventure above alluded to. Mr. Fergusson has recently brought these points very prominently and forcibly before the profession, and has stated his conviction that most of the cases heretofore related as instances where the incisions for litliotomy have been made and a stone has not been present, have been examples where the surgeon has failed to reacli the bladder from the cause just narrated. He states that he has known of cases where, death having followed the incisions, the stone has been found in the bladder at a post mortem inspection, and has heard of others where the stone has been suceesgfuUy extracted at n second operation, after 233 the first wound has been allowed to heal. (See Lancet, July 2, imi. Report of Lecture delivered attlui College of Surgeons.) If therefore the finger does not readily enter the bladder, no force should on any account be employed, but the knife should be again applied to the groove of the staff, and pushed steadily onwards u:itil the bladder has been fairly opened.] Accidents op Lithotomv. [That the accidents of lithotomy are both nume- rous and severe, may be gathered from the general fact that about one-fifth or one-sixth of all pa- tients, who are cut for the stone, die. They differ, of course, according to the mode of opera- tion which may be adopted. The high operation has its peculiar dangers ; so has the vesical, rectal, &c. ; it will, hov/ever, be sufficient if we confine ourselves to the accidents of the lateral operation. The nature of the accidents which are likely to occur will be best understood if we bear in mind the obstacles which have been described, because many of the former arise from attempts made to overcome the latter, or from our inability to do so. The accidents should be distinguished according as. they occur during the operation or after it. In the one case, they constitute accidents, pro- perly so called ; in the other they are, for the most part, secondary occurrences, and may more properly be considered with the causes of death after lithotomy. The primary accidents of lithotomy are few, if we consider those which happen at the present day, and not the unfortunate occiuTences described in many systematic works, the greater portion of which should be attributed to carelessness or want of skill. The bulbous portion of the urethra and the artery of the bulb may be divided by the first incisions. This accident may be avoided by not commencing our incisions too high, or too close to the raphe'. Mr. Skey, however, is of opinion that, in reality, the bulb is always more or less divided, and the artcrj' of the bulb frequently, and that the perineal artery rarely escapes when the external incision is more than usually long. (Operative Surgery, London, 1850, p. 547.) Mr. Skey does not regard this accident as of any consequence whatever; but it would be better to avoid it, if possible. The next accident which is likely to occur is the slipping of the point of the knife or cutting instrument from the groove of the staff. "What has been already said in another part shows that such an occurrence is by no means unfrequent. It has happened in the hands of the best sur- geons ; and hence the writer, although fully ap- preciating Mr. Liston's method, prefers the use of the button-headed bistoury. Wounding the rectum is another accident not unfrequent; and as this also has happened to skilful operators, we are compelled to conclude tliat it does not always arise from the fault of the surgeon. The anterior wall of the rectum lies close on the posterior surface of the prostate, to which it is connected by cellular membrane ; and, in spite of the precaution to empty the gut (which should never be neglected), any abnormal development of the intestine or unnatural change in tlie position of the parts may bring the intestine innnediately under the knife of the operator. It may be di-