RECTUM, Dl 3EASES OF. 521 tliivd, the upper portion of the bowd descemls into the lower, and the dispLicement is truly what is termed a volvulus, or intussusceplion. In this account, Sir Benjamin Rrodie believes tliat there is a mistake, and that prolapsus of the rectum is I're- qnently confounded with internal piles. But the ditterence between internal piles and real prolap- sus of the rectum, seems to him to be this : In the protrusion of the former, the mucous membrane covering them descends, and may be seen below the aims, but it is only the mucous membrane : ■whereas in a true prolapsus ani, the muscular tunic protrudes, as well as the mucous membrane, If one portion of bowel, inclusive of both these tunics, can slip down into another portion, why (inquires this distinguished surgeon) should not the rectum slip out at the anus ? (See Lo?id. Med. Gaz. for 183i and 1835, p. 845.) However, as I have already explained, the latter form of dis- placement is universally admitted ; and the ques- tion which is raised refers to tlie point whether pro- lapsus ani ever really consists in a relaxation and protrusion of the mucous membrane of the rectum alone, without being essentially combined with in- ternal piles. The inner coat of the rectum being connected to the muscular by a very loose elastic cellular tissue, naturally forms several folds, the use of which is to let this bowel dilate sufflciently for the retention of the excrement. This struc- ture has appeared to some pathologists to account for the occasional protrusion of the mucous mem- brane, without being accompanied by the muscular coat. In one page. Baron Dupnytren speaks of " la procidence de meinbrane muqueuse du rectum," in common with other surgical writers ; but, in the next, he describes the displacement as consist- ing in a descent of the upper portion of the rectum into the lower, down to the anus, and even beyond it, so as to constitute a protrusion from two to six inches in length. (C/z'n. Chir, t. i. p. 157, 158.) His view then seems to me to agree witli that of Sir Benjamin Brodie. The swelling occasioned by the protrusion of the inner coat of the rectum, or of this, together with the muscular, is subject to considerable variety in respect to length and thickness ; when small, resembling a mere ring ; ■when large, and reaching far downwards, having an oblong globular form. The tumor sometimes admits of reduction with ease ; sometimes it can- not be returned without difficulty. The disease is now and then met with in persons of all ages ; but it is most common in infants and elderly subjects. When it exists in young adults, which is only seldom. Sir Benjamin Brodie has found that it has generally begun in early life. Children ■whose bowels are habitually confined, whose bel- lies are large and tumid, and in whom the contents of the abdomen seem too large for it, are more frequently, than others, affected with prolapsus ani. Sir Benjamin Brodie refers to an anatomical reason for the frequency of the complaint in chil- dren :—" It is because the prostate gland, ure- thra, and vesiculse seminales, are not so much developed as in the adult. The attachment of the rectum to the surrounding parts does not extend so high in children as in persons of mature ago ; while the reflection of the peritoneum takes place lower down ; and hence the rectum is more liable to be pu3h(!d out.'' (Urodic, in Land. Med, Gaz. vol. cit. p. 845.) Such examples as are combined with thickening and relaxation of the inner coat of the rectum, internal haiuiorrhoids, or other tu- mors, are often attended with copious discharge of a thin mucous fluid, mixed with blood. With respect to prolapsus ani, Mr. Mayo refers to a preparation in the museum of King's College, showing that the muscular coat of the bowel may be inverted, as well as the mucous coat, and sub- mucous cellular tissue ; a point disagreeing with the statement of Dupnytren, that the prolapsus consists in extension of the mucous and submu- cous coats by the irregular action of the muscular coat. Mr. Mayo conceives that the use of the sphincter is to prevent protrusion of the rectum ; and if this opinion be well founded, it follows, that no protrusion can take place, except in conse- quence of rupture, atrophy, or excessive rela.xation of the sphincter. The atrophy of it in prolapsus ani of long standing has been ascertained and de- scribed by Cruveilhier ; but here it may only be the effect, not the cause. Instead of Dupuytren's plan of removing several marginal folds of integu- ment close to the anus, for the cure of some ex- amples of prolapsus ani, Mr. Mayo prefers the method of pinching up small folds of the protruded mucous and submucous coats with forceps, cutting their surface with scissors, and then including them in silk ligatures. In one case, which he records, three such folds were tied on opposite sides of the bowel, and at different dis- tances from the sphincter. [The term prolapsus is still often erroneously employed to designate ant/ descent of the bowel through the anus, whether from the growth of hffimorrhoids or from other causes, and much con- fusion is thereby occasioned. It is important, therefore, to understand clearly that where there is h3'pertrophy of the mucous membrane together with the submucous areolar tissue and blood- vessels, and the formation of distinct tumors, as described in a former part of this article, the case is one of hsemorrhoids ; but where there is a descent merely of the unaltered textures of a relaxed but otherwise healthy bowel, the case is one of prolapsus, or procidentia, recti. In the true prolapsus, there may be a descent of relaxed raucous membrane only, or of the mucous and muscular coats toge- ther. The prolapse of the mucous membrane alone, unattended with any hceraorrhoidal forma- tion, is not verj- common ; when present, it is never of any great extent, not more than from half an inch to an inch of the membrane being protruded ; indeed, a greater separation than this of the mucous from the muscular coats is obviously a very unlikely occurrence. In the ordinary form of the complaint, the lower part of the rectum, mucous and muscular coats together, di'scend through the anal aperture, often to the extent of several inches. In aggravated cases, even the peri- toneum covering the upper part of the rectum may accompany the protrusion, a fact to which, as far as the writer is aware, attention has not hither- to been directed. In two cases, witnessed by him, this has been made evident by the descent of a portion of the small intestine into the peritoneal l)ouch, causing a hernial tumor which distended the anterior half of the prolapsus, and in conse- quence of which the entrance to the bowel, in- stead of being central, as usual, was displaced towards the posterior part. By manipulation, the protruded small intestine was found to be redu-