,1 a.K? URINARY consiJcred tlie variety in tlin colmirs and suifact's of c;ilculi, which often alTonl indications of tlieii' chemical nature. Wlien ihey liave a brownisli or fawn-colour, somewhat like mahogany wood, with a smooth, though sometimes finely tubercu- lated, surface, they almost always consist of lilhic acid. When cut open, they appear to be formed of concentric layers, sometimes homogeneous, some- times alternating with otlier substances. The co- lour, however, cannot be considered as a certain criterion, since other kinds of calculi may often be coloured in the bladder in a similar manner, by bloody mucus, or other vitiated secretions. "When calculi are white, or greyish-white, they always consist of earthy phosphates: this is particularly the case with the species called fusible. And when they are dark brown, or almost black, hard in their texture, and covered with tubercles or protuberances, they are generally of the species which has been distinguished by the name of mul- hcrry, and consist of oxalate of lime. "Calculi have sometimes an uneven, crystalline surface, studded with shining transparent particles. This appearance always denotes the presence of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate." {Marcei, ¥• 52.) . , A large calculus, especially when it has a rough irregular surface, produces a great deal of irritation of the bladder, which contracts more closely round it. The contact, however, is re- marked to be particularly exact at the transverse line which extends between the terminations of the two ureters in the bladder; a part of this organ which generally becomes more thickened than the rest. Sometimes, indeed, the cavity of the bladder is nearly effaced, and the urine can be retained only a very short time; or, if it be not evacuated, it spreads uniformly round the calculus, especially above and below the above-described transverse projection, which is less yielding than other parts of this organ. Hence the surface of the stone, towards the orifices of the ureters, does not enlarge so fast as the other sides of it; and a circular groove is produced, giving the foreign body the shape of a calabash. Such calculi are generally very large, and sometimes even of enor- mous size, in the latter circumstance, the foreign body fills the cavity of the bladder so completely, that there is no space left for the lodgment of the urine there, which fluid then generally passes along a sort of groove, situated in a line reaching from the lower termination of the ureter to the neck of the bladder. This state is, of course, accompanied with a complete incontinence. Urinary calculi are not always loose and move- able in the cavity of the bladder, being sometimes fixed in various ways to certain points of the cir- cumference of this organ; a subject which has been noticed in the article Lithotomy. When the bladder protrudes from the abdomen, so as to form a hernia, a stone is occasionally situ- ated in the displaced portion of it. This circum- stance has the same effect as a sacculated bladder; for the foreign body is thereby fixed, and it can- not be propelled towards the neck of the bladder at the period where the urine is discharged. Also, in cases of prolapsus uteri, when the bladder is drawn downwards, a stone has sometimes beer) found lodged at the lowest part of it. The possi- bility of the complication of a calculus, with sucii displacements of the bladder, ought to be well CALCULI. remembered, since, if the nature of the case be de- tected, its treatment becomes materially siniplified. Various local causes, as blows on the loing, which injure the structure, or derange the function of the kidney, are enumerated by Mr. Crosse as often giving rise to calculous deposits; and so may inflammation of the pelvis of the kidney, or increased mucous secretion from the urinary pas- sages. Strictures of the urethra, and enlargements of the prostate gland, by detaining the urine in the bladder (see Prostate Gl.4.nd, and Urethra, Strictures op), have a powerful tendency to produce disease in that organ, and thus promote the formation of calculi. (See J. G. Crosse, On the Formation, ^c. of Urinary Calculi, ^c. 4to. Loud. 1832.) The symptoms of a stone in the bladder having been detailed in the article Lithotomy, the enu- meration of them need not here be repeated. They are all so equivocal, and bear so great a resemblance to the effects of several other disorders, that they cannot be depended upon, and consequently no well-informed surgeon will venture to pronounce positively that there is a calculus in the bladder, unless he can distinctly feel it with a sound. (See Lithotomy and Soonding.) If a foreign body be introduced into a cavity to which the urine has access, whatever may be the nature of the immersed substance, it always be- j comes alter a time incrusted with calculous matter, j though it undergoes no chemical change in its 1 composition. In such cases, it is found (see Forbes,-* On Gravel and Gout, 8vo. Lond. 1793 ; and'^ Marcet, On the Chemical Hist. 4-c. of Calcuhtts Disorders, 8vo. Lond. 1817) that the concretion mostly, if not always, consists of the earthy phos- phates. Here the operation of any particular diathesis is beyond all suspicion, because the foreign body which forms the nucleus wotild lead to the production of a calculus in all descrip- tions of patients. There are some countries where patients with calculi are tolerably numerous ; and other parts of the world where the disease is rare, or never met with ; and yet the difference cannot always he ^ accounted for by any geographical circumstance which is constant, or any definable peculiarity of constitution, climate, diet, or mode of life. Urinary calculi are said to be very uncom- mon in Spain and Africa, though patients with ^ gravel are numerous in Majorca, which lies be- j tween them. {MugendK. Recherc/ics sur ks Causes, J (tc. de la Gravelle, p. 31, 8vo. Paris, 1818.) The > usual belief is that calculi are most frequent in _ damp, cold countries, like England and Holland, . but that in sucti other parts of tiie world as art cither very hot, or cold, the disease is rare. Ho«- • ever, in every estimate of this kind, the number • of the inhabitants of the countries, or districts m i question, is always an essential thing for considM^ • Mtion, because the proportion of stone-patient*, ift > a given number of individuals, is invariably rather j siuall ; and therefore, in referring to the rarity ot such patients in very cold countries, it is to oe considered whether the fact may not be, in some measure, ascribable to the fewness of the in- • habitants. The state of medicine and surgery, w the countries from which the information is ti«ns milted, is likewise another thing for contemplation^ ^ inasmuch as patients are not likely t.. be "'Po^ ^ as suftering from or dying of stone, w^l'we