458 PHLEGMASIA DOLENS. tion. It is said to be more frequent after first labours, and (Davis, White) not likely to recur in the same patient. The vvriter'a experience, however, is at variance with both these propositions. The disease is generally ushered in by shivering, de- pression, irregular (sometimes intermittent) action of the heart, then fever, then stiffness and pain in the groin, and, if pressure be made, pain is brought out in the pelvic and iliac region ; quickly the pain extends down the course of the femoral vein. Soon (not later than the following day) swelling is apparent in the thigh, the leg, and foot. White says the pathognomonic symptom is a swelling of the whole labium pudendi on the same side only as that on which the tense, shining, white swelling of the leg exists. Tenderness and hardness are now felt—sometimes at the onset—in the calf, the vense comites, and Ij^mphatics here being involved. Which is the antecedent—the febrile movement, or the thrombosis ? They are almost simultaneous, but it seems certain that the sudden commotion in the circulation caused by the clotting is enough to excite the slight febrile movement commonly observed. Thus the writer has observed a suc- cession of secondary thromboses attacking the smaller veins, the superficial branches of the saphena, some days after the closure of the femoral, each attack being manifested by pain and har- dening of the vein into a cord, and renewed febrile movement. The oedema increases rapidly but gradually during the next three to eight days. The limb is tense, shining, white ; it scarcely pits on pressure. - The pain does not always continue, except when the limb is so placed as to put the vessels on the stretch. The swelling subsides gradually, taking usually from twenty to thirty or even forty days to disappear. During all this time, the affected veins will be felt like knotted cords ; and here and there the superficial veins •will remain dilated—varicose. The lochia and the milk are not commonly sup- pressed in the simple cases of thrombotic puer- peral fever. Many patients continue to suckle throughout. In some the milk is only partially suppressed for a few days. This circumstance is enough to show that there is no serious toxsemiii. The exquisite sensibility of the early stage is succeeded by impairment of sensation and of motion in the limb. The intermuscular cellular tissue, and the tissue in which the peripheral nervous fibrillee are distributed, are clogged and compressed by the gelatinous serous effusion, Hence the limb is paralysed. Not uncommonly one leg is affected after the other. To range the limbs in the order of liability, they would stand thus : left leg, right leg, arms. The greater liability of the left leg is supposed to be explained by the greater frequency of the placental attach- ment on the left side of the uterus; by the more frequent left decubitus ; by the more frequent left occipital presentation entailing greater injury to the uterine veins on the left side ( Velpeau). After a time the lymphatic and venous channels are gradually restored. The swelling "will sometimes rapidly subside. But some loss of power in the limb, and a disposition to venectasis, will remain for some time. There is no doubt that in most cases the thrombi break down and disappear. The fibrin disintegrates by conversion into molecular fat, form- ing a pus-looking fluid called by Virchow " physio- logical milk." Gulliver long before had described the process. This fluid is generally harmless, and can be disposed of by the circulating and excretorj' organs. But there is some risk of embolia—i. e., of imperfectly liquefied fragments of clot being carried into the blood, and becoming the foci of thrombi in the pulmonary arteries. Occasionally the veins become permanently obliterated, an ef- fective collateral circulation being established by the development of superficial veins. The treatment should be regarded from proph}'- lactic, curative, and reparative points of view. The labour should be conducted with the least possible violence. Flooding should be carefully guarded against. Above all, vigilance is required lest any check should be encountered by the secreting appa- ratus—to take a light but nutritious diet, to avoid any mental perturbation. At the onset, a dozen leeches may be usefully applied to the groin. The limb should be wrapped up in cotton-wool sur- rounded by oilsilk. This maintains uniform tem- perature, and promotes exhalation. The limb should be slightly raised from the heel, and rotated inwards so as to relax the femoral vessels. Rubbing should be avoided, especially in the early stage. When the swelling has subsided, rubbing with soap-liniment, or oil may be serviceable in promoting the return of muscular power, but there is some danger lest embolia be caused by breaking up the softening clots. Flannel rollers are useful, and commonly, when the erect posture is resumed, elastic stockings, to support the distended vessels and weakened skin, are desirable. In the early febrile stage, salines with opiate sedatives ' constitute the best internal remedies. Davis spoke highly of digitalis and blue-pill. At a later stage, mineral acids are uselul—bark, then iron. The diet should be generous, and in- clude wine. The state of the limb should be watched for some time after apparent recover)'. Some degree of venectasis often persists. The parts so affected are liable, long after convalescence, to become the seat of secondary or tertiar)' throm- bosis. Some of the phenomena of phlegmasia dolens may be reproduced. Inflammation (some- times erysipelatoi'd) springs up around the knotted and thrombosed veins. Sloughing may take place over the seat of the obstructed vessel, and a deep indolent ulcer is formed. A process, strictly of necrosis, has occimed as the consequence of ar- rested circulation and nutrition in the part.] R. Barnes, M.D. [BiBLiOGBAPHY.—C/idJ-to W/iile, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of that Svvellins: in one or both Lower Extremities, which sometiuies happens to Lyinff-in Women, 1784. Charles B. Ti\ve, An Essay on the Swelling of the Lower Extremities incident to Lyins-in Women, 1792. David Davis, An Essay on the Proximate Cause of the Disease called Plilegnia- Bia Dolens j Med. Chir. 'Irans. 1823; Art. Phlegmasia Dolens, Diet, de iM^d. 1841. Dr. Himpton, Med. Times and Gaz. 1859. G. M. Humphry, On the Coasula- tion of the Blood in the Venous System during Lite, 1859. Dr. Barnes, Thrombosis and Embolia of Lying-in Women, Obstetrical Trans. 18G2. F. ?f. Mackenzie, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxvi.; and Lettsomian Lectures, 1861. Tilhury Fox, Obstetrical Trans. 1861 and 1802. John Hull, An Essay on Lee, Med. Chir. Trans. 1852, On Thrombos.s and Embolia. See also Baron, Arch. O^"*'- ''^ '^'^ • 1838; l'a(?et, Med. Chir. Virrhmv'rll 1852 Simpson, Collected Works, 'fy}i^5l'°'\'„^^'; lular Pathology, 1859; llichardson, 18d8, conn, isuu.J