352 NEUR. These cases may be complicated with partial, and terminate in complete paraplegia. They occur mostly in the male, about or over middle age. The pain is often intense, generally of a remittent or intermittent kind. 3. The anmmic condition of the blood is rather a predisposing than exciting cause of neuralgia. Anaemia may be connected with the cause engen- dering neuralgia in hj'sterical females, but there is no proof of its direct influence. Let the diathesis or the temperament be what they may, neuralgia, if not due to local pressure, is due, in the majority of cases, to irritation, direct or reflected, of a nerve—the irritating cause being not inflammation, but still one leading to debility of the system generalli'. Treatment of Neuralgia.—It has been shown how numerous are the causes, both predisposing and exciting, of neuralgia. It is therefore plain that no specific plan of treatment can be recommended for all eases, and that very different remedies will be required. The indications of treatment are to relieve or cure the paroxysm, and to arrest, if possible, the tendency of the paroxysms to recur : With either of these objects in view, the treat- ment required may be surgical or medical, local or general. It is of importance in every case to arrive, if possible, at 3. first cause for the neuralgia, to ascertain if the attacks can be traced to any local exciting cause, or whether due to some general morbid condition of the system. If apparently due to an inflammatory state of the system, to derangement of the secretions—as of the liver, the stomach, the kidneys, or the bowels, —the indication will be to arrest such derange- ments as soon as possible, to act on the liver and bowels with a mercurial, unless contraindicated, and some cooling aperient, to correct the state of the stomach with antacids, &c:, to cool the blood ■With, salines, such as the nitrate and bicarbonate of potass, with or without epsom-salts. If an inflam- matory state of the blood is evident, Copland thinks blood-letting, cautiously employed, is often ex- tremely beneficial, andrenders such means as I have just described still more eflScacious. I have never employed, or seen the necessity for, general bleed- ing in neuralgia, properly so called, nor dp I think it desirable, unless in very exceptionable cases. As long as the attacks can be traced to any par- ticular exciting cause, such as a decayed tooth, a neuroma, or a tumour pressing upon a nerve, con- stitutional treatment will be of little or no service; the exciting cause must, if possible, be removed. Anodynes may lull the pain, and even remove it for two or three weeks at a time, as happened in a case of sciatica in St. George's Hospital, pro- duced by a small tumour ; but no permanent good can be expected whilst the source of irritation remains. Tumours within the cranium, or im- bedded in the cerebral substance itself, may pro- duce the most distressing tic douloureux. Every kind of treatment will fail to give more than very temporary benefit in these cases : division of the nerve will do nothing. Such patients obtain most relief, as far as I have seen, from opium or morphia, of which, as a rule, they can take enormous doses with impunity ; one patient of mine, for many years, took thirty grains of morphia dailj'. When no local cause can be found, and the neuralgia is not of that unceasing nature, leading to the supposition of its iiaving an organic deep- seated origin, it will most probably be due to some one or other of the previously mentioned causes, aft'ecting the system generally, and the nervous system in particular; the course of treatment to be adopted must depend upon the constitution of the ■ patient, and general history of the case. Certain modes of treatment have been highly thought of from time to time for neuralgia : such as blood- letting, local and general, counter-irritation, as by blisters, the moxa, acupuncture, division of nerves, free purging, electricity, mercury, iron, arsenic, narcotics, &c. As a rule, neuralgia does not require lowering treatment ; it is so constantly produced by debili- tating causes, that tonic and alterative treatment, with rest and good food, are indicated far more frequently than lowering measures. The applica- tion of one or two leeches to the neuralgic region may relieve the pain of the paroxysms ; but as there is seldom any local heat, tenderness, or full- ness of the part, much local depletion would do harm rather than good. In neuralgia the treatment is to be directed, not so much to that particular part painful for the time, as to the general weakness and susceptibility of the nervous system generally, as indicated by that local painful attack. Premising, that in most cases of neuralgia not due to obvious local causes, the secretions have beenattended to, thetreatment will be directed to— 1. The relief of the paroxysms. 2. The cure, if possible, of the neuralgic diatheses, or the causes predisposing to neuralgic repetitions. J. The paroxysm may be relieved, cut short, or cured by local or general means. Should it be due to malaria, to debilitj', or to any weakening or de- pressing cause, a dose of quinine may relieve it, and even prevent an expected attack. Alcohol in some form, a glass of pnrtwine or brandy, or an opiate, may likewise arrest or mitigate the paroxysm. When these fail, or the stomach refuses to retain the quinine, the iron, or the anodyne, or the pain is so excessive that he re- quires more instant relief, the hypodermic injec- tion of morphia may be at once had recourse to. Locally,great relief is often afforded by heat,in the form of hot fomentation, with or without anodynes; or by opiates, liniments, and lotions, or the local vapour of anodyne herbs; or by blistering, with or without the endermic use of morphia; the appli- cation of local irritants, as croton oil, &c. Dr. Sieveking thinks that, of " the various remedies, opium and its preparations, applied locally or given by the mouth, occupy the first rank." Next to opium, as a local Jipplication, comes belladonna, whichmay be used as the extractor ointment,orasa liniment; but oftentimes better than opium in any form, is the alkaloid of belladonna injected into the subcutaneous cellular tissue. It will often completely remove a paroxysm of many hours in a few minutes. The mode of injection will be after- wards described. (See Subcutaneous 1n.iec- TIONS.) Veratria and aconitina, both powerful poisons, have at times great effect upon the paroxysm. They may be used ao ointments, one or two grains of aconitina to the drachm (Pereira) of lard ; and of veratria, twenty to forty grains to an ounce of lard (Turnbull). Of these two local remedies, the