^88 PTOSIS OR BLEPHAROPTOSTS. base of the pterygium, is to take hold of the mem- brane with a pair of forceps held in his left hand, and pinch it into a fold, at about one line from its apex. The duplicature is now to be raised, and drawn out gentlj' until a sensation of some- thing giving way is felt, whieh indicates the de- tachment of the pterygium from the delicate cellular texture, by which it is connected with the subjacent cornea. Next, b)' means of a pair of scissors, the surgeon must dissect this fold as closely as possible from the cornea, proceeding from the apex towards the base of the pterygium. The section being completed to where the cornea and sclerotica meet, the fold is to be again ele- vated still more, and, with one stroke of the scis- sors, the pterygium, and the relaxed portion of the conjunctiva, forming its base, are to be detached as concentrically and closely to the cornea as possible. This second incision will have a semi- lunar shape, the horns of which ought to extend two lines beyond the relaxed part of the conjunc- tiva, and follow the curvature of the eyeball. When the operation is finished, the surgeon must promote the hseraorrhage by washing the part with warm water, and then cover the eye with dry lint, or lint moistened in the liquor plumbi acet. dilutus. Unless pain, tension of the eye, and consider- able tumefaction of the eyelids, follow, it is suffi- cient to wash the eye and inside of the eyelids three or four times a day with warm water, and carefully keep the parts from being exposed to the air without compressing them. If the symptoms just mentioned should occur, antiphlogistic treat- ment must be adopted. On the fifth or sixth day, at latest, after the operation, all the surface, from which the pterygium has been cut, appears yel- lowish, and covered with a fluid like mucus. The edges of the wound, and the adjoining part of the conjunctiva, assume a reddish colour. After- wards, the wound contracts daily, and at length completely closes. All local stimulants are to be avoided. In the early stage of pterygium, while the membrane is as thin as a cobweb, Scarpa considers it unnecessary to deprive the cornea of its natural covering; and that it is quite enough to cut off a portion of it, in order to intercept all communi- cation between the dilated venous ramifications of the pterygium and the varicose trunks in the white of the eye. This is accomplished b}' cutting out, with a pair of forceps and scissors, a semilunar piece of the conjunctiva, at the point where the cornea and sclerotica conjoin, and exactly at the base of the incipient pterygium, just as is practised for opacity of the cornea. Tlie recent pterygium is observed to disappear gradually after the oper- ation, or to change into a slight dimness of the cornea, extending over a part of the space pre- viously occupied by the disease. This opacity is commonly much more trivial than what follows a cicatrix. Acre], in his Surgical Observations, mentions having successfully treated an incipient pterygium in this manner. Scarpa has also tried the plan several times with success. Such treat- ment must be better than merely making two or three deep cuts, or scarifications, in the membrane, near the edge of the cornea, as advised by Beer (b. ii. p. 641). And, in proof of the uncer- tainty of the latter method, we find Beer himself *peaking of the necessity of using stimulating ap- I plications, like powdered sugar, alum, the vinous tincture of opium, &c. if tlie operation is not of itself sufficient. In the pterygium crassum. Beer recommends the knife as tlie best means of cure; but he differs essentially from Scarpa, not merely in preferring a knife to the scissors, but in be- ginning the operation by making a deep cut through the base of the pter3^gium in the white of the eye, from which point he contiimes the dissection of the pterygium, till this is all removed as far as its apex on the cornea, when he uses either the knife or scissors, as most convenient. {Beer, b. i. p. 643.) Mr. Guthrie, who acknowledges the correctness of Scarpa's objections to removing a large ptery- gium to a great extent towards tlie caruncula lachrymalis, adopts a middle course, behveen the methods of Beer and Scarpa, and removes half of the pterygium from the apex, towards the base. (Vol. cit. p. 130.) Beer mentions, that it sometimes happens, especially in cases of thin pterygia, that the disease stops at the edge of the cornea, and spreads no further, as long as the patient lives. {jBeer, b. ii. p. 641.) Under such circumstances, of course, the complaint will give no trouble, and maybe left to itself, as particularly advised by Mr. Travers. {Synopsis, S^c. p. 274.) When, however, it en- croaches upon the sight, this gentleman says, that " it should be raised by dissection, as close as possible to the margin of the cornea, and the re- laxed portion of the membrane removed by an incision, midway hetiveen the base of the ptery- gium and the cornea, and concentric to that mem- brane." [Desraarres dissects the pterygium from before backwards (from its apex towards its base); and its apex, then movable, is attached by sutures to an incision in the conjunctiva near the upper and inner edge of the cornea, where it may undergo a new adhesion without intruding upon the cornea. Mr. Bowman leaves its corneal portion and removes that covering the sclerotica. The con- junctiva above and below is then made more movable by lateral incisions and brought together with sutures, so as to cover the space formerly occupied by the pterygium.] C. Bader. For further information, consult J. Wardrop, Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Kve, vol. i. p. 22, &c. 8vo. Edinb. 1808. Scarpii, SuUe Mallatfie dcgliOcchi,cap.xi. Richter'sAnfangsgT. (lerWundarz- neykunst, b. iii. p. Itl, &c. Gottingen, 1795. Seer's Lehre von den Augenkr. b. ii. p. 636, &c. 8vo. Wien, 1817. B. Travers, Synopsis of the Diseasesof the Eye, 8vo. Lond.1820. Welter's Manual, vol. i. 8vo. Glasgow, 1821. G.J. GifWWe, On the Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 124, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1823. Ji. Middlemorc, in Trans, of Prov. Med. and Surgical Association, vol.iii. p. 236. [Mackenzie, On the Diseases of the Eye, «h ed. 1854. Vesmarres, Tvail6 Thdorique, &c. 2nd ed. 1855. Paris. Ophthalmic Hospital Reports, October, 1857, 1858. J PTOSIS or BLEPHAROPTOSIS(from TiTrTcu, to fall down), a drooping of the upper eyelid with inability of voluntarily raising it. [Ptosis may be caused by paralysis or paresis of the branch of the third nerve, which supplies the levator pal- pebra; muscle, before it reaches that muscle, or by alterations of nutrition of that muscle it- self, or of the entire eyelid. In the first case it is generally complicated with paralysis of the sphincter of the pupil, and of one or several of those recti muscles, which are also supplied by