ISEASES OF. 529 RECTUM, 1 is a meclianical obstruction to the passage of the f'iuces; the belly becomes tympanitic ; tlie tongue dry; there is sickness, vomiting, and the other symptoms indicating strangulation. He may have one of these attacks, and, by means of injections, and the use of a bougie, may recover: he may have a second, and recover from that ; and then he may have a third, which may prove fatal. In the most advanced stage of tlie disease, independ- ently of these attacks, the patient suffers much in his general health, loses flesh, perspires at night; his digestion is deranged ; he is emaciated and hectic ; and thus gradually becomes exhausted." The progress of the disease is tedious. The patient, where no remedies are employed, may linger ten or twelve years. In other cases, if not cured, the disease may be mitigated, and never prove fatal. (See Sir B. Brodie in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi. p. 28.) Sometimes in the advanced state of this disease, the patient is seized with symptoms of peritoneal inflammation, which puts a speedy termination to his sufferings. In such cases, on examination after death, it is discovered that the process of ulcera- tion has opened the intestine immediately above the stricture, and that through this opening a por- tion of fseces has passed into the cavity of the abdomen. {Colles, in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. V. p. 136.) The following statements made by this gentle- man deserve attention. "Among a considerable number of patients afflicted with this disease (he observes), I have had an opportunity in two in- stances only of meeting with it in its incipient state. In both of thcsa the patients complained of ditterent symptoms of irritation of the rectum, fre- quent stools, discharges mixed with mucus, and certain feelings of uneasiness. On examination with the finger, a thickening and slight projection of the gut was felt at a small spot on one side. This morbid alteration spread gradually round the entire of the canal, and extended along it only to a small distance; but until the morbid derange- ment of structure had almost entirely performed the circle of the intestine, the patient did not ex- hibit those symptoms which I consider as the common and inseparable attendants on stricture of the rectum. However constant in their attendance or unvarying in their course may be the symptoms of this disease, yet will the surgeon desire to be confirmed in his opinion by rannual examination. Proceeding to make this examination, we often observe at the orifice of the anus the following appearance, which is indeed almost always present when the disease is seated near the external sphincter; namely, at each side of the anus a small projection, which, on its external surface, appears as a mere elongation and thickening of the skin, but internally presents a moist appearance, not ex- actly like the lining membrane of the gut, nor yet can we say that it is ulcerated. These two pro- jections lie close together below, and divaricate above, presenting a resemblance to the mouth of an ewer. Whenever this external appearance exists, I feel almost certain of finding a stricture of the rectum before the finger is pushed as far as the second joint into the gut. In some cases, however, this external mark has not been present.'' " When the stricture is situated pretty high up, the portion of gut, interposed between it and the nnu-i, is found to be in a perfectly healthy state; VOL. II. I- but, when the finger arrives at the stricture, it is arrested by the narrowness of the canal, which will barely admit the point of it. If now a slight degree of fo ce, combined vvith a boring motion, be employed, the finger may be pushed through the thickened and indurated part, and will then find that the gut just above the stricture is in a very healthy state." Sometimes the stricture is a mere ring; but at other times it extends along the canal as high as the finger can reach. Dr. Colles has not yet met with any instance in which the intestine was stnctured hy means of bands thrown across its canal. Cases of this disease, examined after death, present all the coats of the intestine very much thickened, except the peritoneal tunic; the muscular, cellular, and mucous coats are much thickened, and the latter one is hardened and raised into irregular ridges, but not ulcerated. (See Colles''sDublin HospitalRcports,\-o\. v. p. 137, &c.) Dr. Colles believes that stricture of the rectunr most frequently attacks persons who are about the meridian of life; sometimes, however, children, as early as the seventh or eighth year of their age. He has not met with any instance where it at- tacked an individual at or beyond the age of sixty. (See DiiJdin Hospital Reports, vol. v. p. 131.) Strictures of the rectmn are mostly situated in the lower part of it, within the reach of the finger. About four inches from the anus is specified by IVTr. Listen as their general situation. {On Prac- iical Surgery, p. 366.) In a few instances met with by Dr. Colles, the stricture could not be well reached with the finger, unless the patient forced it down. There are exceptions, however: in the museum of University College, London, maj' be seen a stricture situated between the rectum and the sigmoid flexure of the colon, not of a scirrhous nature. The parts were taken from the bodj' of a woman, aged bo, who had had no evacuation from the bowels for a fortnight previous to her decease. The abdomen was much distended, and around the ulcerated openings, just above the stricture, small abscesses had formed, communicating with the bowel, but not with the cavity of the peritoneum. There is also to be seen in the same museum another stricture of the rectum, attended with fistulous sinuses, terminating in the vagina and perinaaum. Sir Benjamin Brodie has seen one example where a stricture of the rectum was about six inches above the anus, and another case where there was a stricture in the sigmoid flexure, manifestly the consequence of the contraction of a cicatrix. How- ever, he deems strictures in these high situations very rare; yet he has known a great number of persons treated with long bougies on the supposi- tion of their labouring under strictures so placed. •" The only evidence of the existence of a stricture in these cases (he observes) has been first, that there was obstinate costiveness; semiidhj, that a bougie could not be made to pass beyond a certain number of inches above the anus. But (he asks) what is the value of this evidence when compared with that which anatomy affords of the rarity of this kind of stricture.' Are there not many causes of a costive state of the bowels besides mechanical obstruction ? Will it be always easy, even in the most healthy rectum, to introduce a bougie more than a fevv inches into it? Although we call the lower bowel the rcclimi, it is anything but a straight gut. Three or four inches above the anus M M