220 LITHOTOMY. handle somewhat inclined towards the operator, the external incision of the usual extent is made with the knife until the groove is opened, and the point of the knife rests fairly in the director ; the point being then kept steadily against the groove, the operator with his left hand takes the handle of the staff, and draws it downwards, keeping Ids right hand fixed ; then, with an easy and simul- taneous movement of both hands, the groove of the director and tlie edge of the knife are to be turned obliquely towards the patient's left side : the knife having the proper bearing is now ready for the section of the prostate ; at this time the operator should look to the exact line the director takes, in order to carry the knife safely and slowly along the groove, which may now be done without any risk of the point slipping out. The knife may then either be withdrawn along the director, or if it is thought necessary, the parts may be further dilated with it as it is being withdrawn. Having delivered the knife to an assistant, the operator takes the staff in his right hand, and, passing the forefinger of his left along the staff through the opening in the prostate, withdraws the staff, and, exchanging it for the forceps, passes the latter upon liis finger into the cavity of the bladder. (On i/ie Section of the Prostate Gland in Litltoiomy, p. 28. London, 1824.) Mr. James Lane is an advocate for the use of Mr. Key's straight staff', and has repeatedly operated with it in St. Mary's Hospital with suc- cess. He thinks, however, that the pattern of Mr. Key's staff is faulty in the circumstance of the groove being continued on into the curved part near the point, and in its ceasing gradually, in- stead of abruptly, or by a stop. It is important that the groove should terminate before the curve commences, and that it should cease abruptl}', in order that there may be no danger of the knife passing beyond the groove. Without this it is quite possible, especially in an empty bladder, that the point of the knife might pass out at the end of the groove and penetrate the opposite wall of the bladder. The staff may with advantage be curved at its extremity for an inch or rather more into a form approaching that of the ordi- nary lithotrite ; it is then well adapted for being used as a sound, and the operator has no diffi- culty in satisfying himself that it has been pro- perly passed into the bladder. The difficulty in employing it as a sound, and the fear that the point may not have fairly entered the bladder, or may slip out of it during the progress of the operation, are the principal objections which have been urged against the straight staff, and by this modification of its form both these objections are removed. During tlie first part of the operation the stall must be held by the assistant, not perpendicu- larly, as when the curved instrument is used, but inclined towards the operator at an angle of about 45° with the patient's bod)'. When he has opened the urethra, the operator himself takes the handle of the staff ni his left hand and depresses it still further before he com- mences his deep incision. By thus firmly de- pressing the handle, the point of the staff, and with it the prostate and neck of the bladder are raised in a corresponding degree and are lilted away from the rectum, the danger of wounding which is consequently much diminished. Still further safety to the surrounding parts may be obtained by the operator pressing his knife firmly against the staff while he is making his incision, so as to carry both staff and prostate upwards and towards the right pubic ramus. By having the staff in his own hand while he is using the knife, the surgeon obtains a feeling of consent and security in the movement of the two instruments which can never be obtained while one of them is in the hands of another individual. The straight staff is admirably adapted for chil- dren ; but Mr. J. Lane states that he lias used it with perfect facility in an adult of advanced .age witli a greatly enlarged prostate. The sole objection which can be urged against the straight staff, he thinks, is that it does not afford the same support to the first incision, and the groove is not so easily exposed. The urethra is further from the surface, and the operator must therefore take care not to open it too far forwards, and in doing so to wound the bulb. A very little care and practice will enable him, by directing his knife deeply towards the apex of the prostate, at the moment of opening the urethra, to avoid this error. (See Lancet, Feb. 11, 1865.) Rectangular Staff.—Dr. Buchanan, of Glasgow, called attention, in 1847, to the advantages of em- ploying a staff of rectangular form, the angle being placed about three inches from the extremity of the instrument, and tlie part beyond the angle being deeply grooved at the side, not on the under sur- face. This is introduced into the urethra, and by means of the left forefinger in the rectum, the angle is made to correspond in situation with the apex of the prostate, so that the gland can be felt just beyond, between the finger and the staff"; the latter being well depressed, the angle is brought near to the surface, and is readily felt in the peri- neum. The staff is then carefully maintained in this position by an assistant ; the operator, keep- ing his finger still in the rectum, enters a bistoury opposite this angle of the staff, and therefore im- mediately in front of the anus ; he holds it in his right hand with the palm upwards, the blade hori- zontal, and its edge directed to his right ; and he pushes it straight into and along the groove as far as the stop at its extremity. He thus enters the bladder at once, taking care to keep the blade parallel with the horizontal or grooved portion of the staff throughout the whole of the thrust. Next he withdraws the bistoury slowly, and as he does so cuts outwards and downwards a dis- tance rather more than equal to another breadth of his blade, and then directly downwards to the same extent, describing in this manner a curved line equal to about one-fourth of a circle round the upper and left side of the rectum, in which his finger still remains. The above description is quoted from Mr. H. Thompson's " Lectures on Lithotomy." It is from a French account, for- warded to Mr. Thompson by Dr. Buchanan, no English version of it having been previously pub- lished. (See iMHCct, vol. i. 18b'2, p. 219.) Mr. Hutchinson has proposed the use of a rectangular staff differing from Mr. Buchanan s in being tubular, and thus combining the catheter with the staff. , The advantages claimed for the rectangular staff are that the urethra may be opened with more precision at the point required, i.e. just in front of the prostate, and that the grooved part of the in-