TRACHEOTOMY. well known that, except in cases of great exhaustion, the patient's natural ettbrt instantly ejects any sucii intruder so soon as a free exit has been provided fur it; yet it is desirable if the call for rapid action is not very imperative to secure as we proceed any vessel in the wound which bleeds much before we open the windpipe. In this way consider- able trouble, both at the time of operation and afterwards, is avoided. In some cases, how- ever, we must sacrifice all minor considerations to the main one of re-establishing the respiration. Recamier very needlessly recommended the trachea not to be opened for some hours after the preliminary incisions had been completed, so as to he certain that all fear of hffimorrhage had passed. The deeper portions of the dissection are best effected by means of the handle of the scalpel. The trachea should be clearly seen and exposed before any attempt is made to open it. All the most ex- perienced operators have strongly advocated this. When the tube is about to be opened, Chassaignac's hook with a groove on the back should be employed to perforate and fix the trachea. It is inserted below the lower border of the cricoid, the handle being at lirst turned to the side, so as to allow of the easv introduction of the pnint, and then held upwards towards the chin by the surgeon himself or his as- sistant while the knife is slid along the groove into the tube and the necessary incision made downwards; or, what is better, the hook being held by the assistant is employed merely to fix, ele- vate, and steadj' the windpipe, while the operator, placing the forefinuer of his leit hand at the lower angle of the wound, and so keeping down the soft parts and guarding the veins lying thereby gentle pressure, opens the tube with the back of the knife turned downwards, and cuts upwards as far as may be requisite. There is much less chance of harm in this way. The knife should be entered between the rings and with a slight jerk. The slightly curved abscess lancet does admirably for opening the tube. The trachea should not be cut down- wards more than is required, but the extent to which it is opened must be regulated by the object for which the operation is performed. If a foreign body is to be removed, much more room will be | wanted than when the mere admission of air is re()uired. The mode in which Chassnignac employs his hook is not that above recommended. lie inserts it through the skin as the first step in the operation before »ny incision is made at all. The difficulty of acconi|ilishiiig this in many cases on account of the gliding of the skin is fully acknowledged, but all difficulty vanishes if the incisions .are first completed as above recommended. The knife should be next turned on its side so as to open the lips of the wound, or what is better the handle of the scalpel should be inserted and turjied half round, atui the canula (if such is to he used) passed aloiifj it into the canal. Mr. Worthing- ton has lately (KUJC; described in A/nlica/ 'J'imes and Gazette an ingenious device to facilitati: the passing of the canula. A deeply grooved steel director fits closely to the back of the scalpel, and is adjusted by means of a slit into which a button on the handle of the knife projects. The director lies nut of the way till pushed forward after the trachea has been opened, and as it is then freed from the scalpel it loniains in the wound as a 157 guide for the canula. Many different patterns of " dilators " have been suggested, intended to open the wound and facilitate the introduction of the canula. These will be again referred to. The space between the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage and the isthmus of the thyroid is so small in young children, and the vascularity of the isthmus so great, that if we cannot hook it down and so keep it out of the way, we must di- vide the cricoid as well (" laryngo-tracheotomy") as the tracheal rings, in order to get sufficient room for the canula. In children of 6 or 8 years of age, the opening may be made, if so wished, below the isthmus. If there is much mucus or other foreign matter in the windpipe to be expelled, it is better to wait a short tiiue before introducing the tube, the hps of the wound being held asunder by retractors or by the simple expedient of passing a strong thread through the lips of the tracheal wound, on either side, which can be held or if necessary tied behind the back of the neck, or as is suggested by Chas- saij.'nac, twisted round pins passed throufjh a plait of the soft parts at a short distance on either side of the wound. If the opening is only intended for temporary purposes, it is often best not to use a tube at all, and thus avoid the irritation it un- avoidably causes and the cloggijig with mucus it is so apt to give rise to, but to keep the opening patent by means of blunt hooks or some of the many means which have been suggested for the purpose, such as two pieces of elastic watch-spring, having their points slightly bent outwards, so .as to catch the edges of the tracheal wound, and these may be kept in place by being tied behind iheneck or united there by a sliding screw which enables them to be adjuste'd to the circumference of the neck. Two pieces of bent copper wire, or pewter or lead or some such appliance, will serve the same end. If the patient is very much exhausted, any foreign body, such as blood or mu- cus or tube casts, present in the windpipe will be forcibly ejected by a violent, and often to an inex- perienced person, dangerous looking spasmodic effort. If they fail to be removed by a sponta- neous effort, they can be got quit of by "turning the patient on his side or face, or by withdrawintr them by means of a syringe. To suck them out by the mouth or an elastic catheter, as Roux and others (including the writer of this article, on one occasion when the patient's life could not otherwise have been saved) have done, might be justified when the danger is imminent, but in some of the cases in which tracheotomy is performed, such a proceed:- ing might be attended with the utmost danger to the operator. If bleeding to any annoying ex- tent takes place from the interior of the windpipe after it is opened, as when a false membrane has been detached, it is best suppressed by the application of ice to the upper part of the sternum iiid elevating the head. Dupuytren's advice to make the patient, if sensible, respire deeply should then also be remembered. Some operators put great weight on the removal of the tracheal fascia Irom the edges of the orifice made in the wind- pipe, so as to avoid its subsequent interference with the patency of the opening. Such is an outline of the usual steps in the operation of tracheotomy. Tlio manipulations may be divided into three stages, eacli of which are attended by certain difficulties. First, exposing