UTERUS, llETROVERSION AND RETROFLEXION OF. 889 liy every possible means. Then he should immp- I <li;itoly proceed to reduce the uterus, by placing the jiatieiit in a suitable posture, and making metho- dical pressure in the rectum and vagina. Should he be so fortunate as to succeed, the patient is to lie confined in bed, her bowels are to be kept open, and she is to be advised always to obey the rails of nature the first moment she is conscious of them. She is also to be enjoined to avoid all kinds of exertion, and wait till the gradual en- l.irgement of the uterus removes the possibility of its descending into the pelvis (Sabaiier, Med. Optr. t. ii.). The most important part of the treatment con- sists in the frequent employment of the catheter. '■ When the retroversion is complete, and the pa- tient has nearly reached the fourth month, the mere evacuation of the bladder, at distant inter- vals, may fail to answer our expectations. The introduction of the catheter every fourth hour is preferable to the plan of retaining the instrument within the bladder. We guard against an accu- mulation of urine, and thus secure the great object ill view. The amount of urine which will collect in the bladder within this period will be insufficient to maintain the cervix uteri in its unnatural situa- tion " {J. T. Ingleby, in Edinh. Med. Journ. No. 122. p. 139). ^ Some practitioners rather discourage the manual interference to reduce the uterus, believing that drawing off the urine will gener.illy render such interference unnecessary (Ovoft, in Lond. Med. Jouvn. vol. ix. p. 53. Detiman's Midivifery, 4to. Lond. IBOl. Burns's Midwifery. S. Merriman, on Retroversion of the Womb, 8vo. Lond. 1810). This difference of practice arose from the diffe- rent views taken of the cause of the displacement. Dr. Hunter believed that the retroversion was the cause of the retention of urine, and of all the other symptoms. On the contrary. Dr. Denman argued that the retention of urine was the first symptom, and that the consequent enlargement of the bladder raised the neck and mouth of the womb, and caused the fundus to fall backwards; in which position, its pressure on the urethra and rectum kept up the retention of urine, tenesmus, difficulty of emptying the bowels, &c. In one case under Mr. Weir, although the urine was repeatedly drawn off by means of a catheter, with some difficulty, the uterus could not be reduced until an assistant pushed its fundus up- wards with his hands passed into the rectum, while Mr. Weir himself cautiously drew down the mouth of the womb. Abortion followed, but the patient recovered. I have adverted to the case where Dr. Hunter could not succeed in the reduction; and where, after death, the uterus was so fixed in the hollow "f the sacrum, that it could not be replaced until the sym[ihysi8 of the pubes had been divided. Jjiit, as Mr, Weir remarks, the reduction may in general be easily accomplished when attempted early; and, although it has been asserted that for- cible attempts will be very apt to produce abortion or even worse consequences, he is not aware of any case on record where bad effects were fairly attri- butable to the manual efforts. Abortion has no doubt occurred; but this, he argues, was the con- sequence of the disease, or deemed absohitolv necessary to effect the reduction. He admits that violent and unnecessary attempts arc not justi- fiable ; but ho contends that, if the retroversion be complete, and dangerous symptoms be present, the uterus must be replaced at every risk. Our efforts, he thinks, should be in proportion to the difficulty to be overcome. He is aware that cases have occurred in wliich the uterus could not bo moved. Besides the cases quoted above from Dr. Hunter and Perfect {Perft'cl's Cases in Miduifury, vol. i. p. 3.04), there is a singular case related by Mr. White, of Paisley {Med. Communications, vol. XX.), in which many attempts to replace tho womb were made in vain. Here, however, the uterus was enlarged from disease as well as one of the ovaries. The patient recovered after much danger, and the bursting of an abscess of the ovary into the rectum. "The advocates for non-interfe- rence have asserted (says Mr. Weir) that the catheter can in general be easily introduced; and that the distension of the bladder, which is the cause of the retroversion, being thus removed, all chance of danger is obviated; and one author mentions that no case will ever occur where the urine cannot be drawn off. Now, the cases already referred to clearly show that, in general, there will be more or less difficulty in introducing the catheter; and there are some on record where it was found impossible." In Dr. Cheston's (Med. Commun. vol. 2. p. 96), Mr. Lynn's {Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. iv.), Dr. Squire''s {Med. Revicu', 1801), M.Baudelocque's {L'Art des Accouchemcns, sect. 253), Doeverius's Case {Mei-riman, on Re- troversion, p. 12), Mr. Combe's {Med. Comment. vol. v.), and Perfect {Cases, vol. i. p. 394), the urine could not be drawn off. In the first the bladder was punctured above the pubes, and in four the bladder burst. I will conclude this article with the following instructive observations made by Mr. Baynham. " There are (says he) but few derangements of the human body yielding so large a proportion of fatal cases as retroversion of the woxnb; an event almost uniformly produced by injury of the urinary bladder, which, upon dissection, exhibits the marks of inflammation, effusion of lymph, ulceration, mortification, and rupture; and yet by some the complaint has been ranked under the most in- noxious class of female disorders. It has been stated as a guide to practice, that the uterus will sustain no injury by this displacement; that there is no danger of its being locked in the pelvis; that it will frequently be restored by its own efforts to its natural position; and that neither difficulty nor danger will occur if the catheter be used once or twice daily." {Dr. James Dell, Med. Pract., Sec. vol. viii. ; Denman^s Introduction ; Merrimaii's Treatise on Retroversion ; Burns^s A/idwi/eri/,S[,c.) " I have witnessed " (continues Mr. Baynham, " the death of two patients from this cause, and the dangerous situation in which others have been placed. It is very true that an early and frequent use of the catheter all'ords relief, and sometimes proves a source of recovery ; but, though some writers upon this subject place much dependence upon the curative efficacy of simply keeping the bladder empty, it ivilL in (jeneral (>b found expedient, immediately after the employmenl of the catheter, to effect the reduction of the tumor liy manual assistance, since it is only when partial displacement has happened that spontaneous restoration is likely to occur. The location of the tumor fairly beneath tlie brim of the pelvis, resting, as it nuist do, in