908 VARIX. The treatment of varices lias Leen divided verj- properly into palliative and curative. Tlie palliative treatment in all the many forms which it has assumed aims at the support of the dilated vessels, without obliterating them, by the application of evenly and c:irefully graduated pressure. Such pressure must be applied from the extremity of the limb and extend above the seat of the disease, as well as being most evenly applied, otherwise the affection which it aims at alleviating will be aggravated. Various elastic substances are in use to fulfil this end. Elastic stockings are used by some, and elastic drawers by others in varix of the lower limbs, while both are reprobated by other surgeons, and the laced stocking, or Churton's elastic bandage or rollers of flannel, or woven texture, preferred. Some report the best results from bandages which exert a con- siderable amount of pressure, as those impregnated with gypsum or starch. Cold, the application of tincture of iodine, or the use of flying blisters, have also been locally applied and have their advocates. The success attending the use of such agents has not, however, been encouraging in the hands of others. Perhaps Mr. Chapman's suggestion, to use strips of wet lint or calico to support the vessels, is the best which has been made. Gottschalk employed paste rollers in the same way. Chapman recom- mends strips of cloth two or three inches broad and from twelve to sixteen inches long, applied as Scott does adhesive plaster; a roller is applied afterwards, and the whole wetted several times a day with cold water, a solution of alum, Goulard's lotion, or some such liquid. Friction and the cold douche are used when the bandage is reap- plied. Over the sacculated expansions which oc- cur on the vessels, he exercises pressure by means of leather cones and glass buttons. The propriety of continuing the pressure above the knee when the veins of the thigh are varicose was long ago pointed out by Boyer. In fitting elastic stockings Chapman recommends that the measure of the limb should be taken in the morning, when it is unswollen, and perhaps after a few days' applica- tion of a roller. This point is of considerable practical importance. In order to take oflF the weight of the column of blood from the dependent vessels, Brodie draws strips of adhesive plaster across the vessel at various points, and the same end is aimed at in the elastic garters of some sur- geons, and the elastic ribbons of others. Such applications as the foregoing, combined with rest and the avoidance of such exciting causes as fatigue, cold, wet, excessive heat, &c., may be reasonably expected to ameliorate the disease in all cases, by preventing further enlargement, ulcera- tion, and effusion, besides obtaining the absorption of much of the existing exudation; but that vessels in a state of dilatation will return to their normal diameter, need hardly be looked for. Some have objected to the bandaging in such cases from its inconvenience, the difficulty of applying it pro- perlj', the excoriations and irritations which <at times arise from the imprisonment of the perspira- tion, and the atrophy and loss of power which oc- casionally results in limbs long so treated. Such objections are not, however, of much weight. Leeches, as recommended by Boyer, or lancet punctures, as proposed by Petit, may be called for in rare cases. Curative Tiealnienl.—When tlie disease has become much developed, and the inconvenience caused by it great, when those grave results which sometimes follow the establishment of the affection have appeared, or tlireatened to appear, when the palliative measures before mentioned have failed, or cannot be employed, then it becomes a question whether more decisive steps should not be taken to relieve the patient than any above enumerated. The chalices and risk must, however, be well con- sidered, and the case judged of by the aid of a careful review of the age, habits, and constitution of the patient. Of the many modes of treating varix which have been suggested, some, it will be seen, aim at the obstruction of the main vessel, others at the oblite- ration of the branches. The ancients destroyed the vein by the actual cautery, or excised part of its continuity. They preferred the latter method when there were many convolutions, and the former when the vessel was straight. The (ft-quoted case of Caius Marius serves to illustrate the pain of the burning pro- cess. Extirpation was revived in modern times by Boyer, Richerand, and others, but soon fell again into desuetude. The severity and frequent failure, and its uselessness in those cases in which the deep vessels were engaged, are the chief causes which led to its abandonment. As in the cases of spontaneous cure of varix on record, the favourable result has been produced by a coagulum forming and plugging the vessel, and the final atrophy of the vein into a fibrous cord; and as this effect has been often seen to follow inflam- matory action seizing upon the vein, or has resulted from the pressure of a tumor on the vein, or has been occasioned by the sheer debility of the patient, it has been the object in most of the curative methods of treatment proposed of late years to produce a manageable amount of inflam- mation—of adhesive inflammation, as it is often loosely termed—and in this way to bring about the formation of a coagulum within the vein, the con- version of this into a fibrinous plug, and thus the obliteration of the vessel. The danger which at- tends all these methods consists in the over-step- ping of due bounds in the inflammation set up, and the formation of pus, as a consequence, within the vein, and thus poisoning of the constitution by the entrance of the purulent secretion being brought about. A. Pare', Beclard, and Sir Everard Home re- vived the ancient method of operating with a ligature on the main vein in the same relative situation as Anel ligatured the main artery in aneurism, i.e. close above the affected point. A double ligature was generally employed, and the vessel tied be- tween them. Dupuytren, again, only used one thread, and divided the vein immediately above the pliice where it was applied. Wise and others, observing that a firm coagulum formed in from 6ti to 48 hours after the application of the thread, re- commended the removal of the ligature about tlie expiry of the time mentioned, so as to dimimsn as much as possible the chances of inflammation and suppuration. Not al ways successful, often Al- lowed by most grave results, as troublesome ulcers, wide-spi ■cad inflammation, purulent absorption,an death, this mode of treatment fell into abeyance. That recurrence of the disease after f'^ I'S""'^" ?' the vein was common, is easily understood, ^^nen " « consider that the branches which join the maun em M