1 DISEASE. 836 VENEREAL excoriations and common ulcers arc more at- tentively discriminated ; and even in what are reputed to be true syphilitic chancres, mercury is seldom given, except in very moderate doses, or such quantities as only gently affect the gums and salivary glands. The surgeon, now no longer blinded with the continual fear of the rapid and furious progress of syphilis when not duly re- sisted by mercury, avoids the very mode of prac- tice which was itself the cause of all the aggra- vated forms of the disease. The consequence is, that very bad instances of the ravages of lues venerea are now hardly ever observed, except from the neglect and intemperance of patients themselves ; and the few aggravated cases which are met with, even in hospitals, are generally in that state previously to their admission. Another benefit, also resulting from modern investiga- tions, which prove that chancres, and all other varieties of the venereal disease, do not absoltUely require mercury for their cure, is the knowledge of the safety with which the use of such medicine may be postponed, where the patient's present state of health will not well bear its exhibition. I know that the ignorance of .this last fact formerly caused the death of many poor sufferers. The greater present mildness of syphilitic dis- eases in England I ascribe .chiefly to the more judicious treatment now adapted, and not to any change or modification in ihe nature of the disorder. There are others, however, who may think, as Dr. Fergusson does with regard to syphilis in Portugal, that the disease has ex- hausted a great deal of its virulence from long continuance amongst us. But, before we are altogether justified in drawing such a conclusion, we must forget all the bad practice which pre- vailed in former days ; and which, in my opinion, is sufficient to account for the more severe forms in which syphilis then presented itself. According to Mr. Hunter's ideas, the most simple method of treating a chancre is to extir- pate it with caustic or the knife, whereby it is reduced to the state of a common sor«, or wound, and heals up as such. However, he sanctions this practice only on the first appearance of the chancre, when the surrounding parts are not yet contaminated; for, he says, it is absolutely necessary to remove the whole of the diseased part, and this object is exceedingly difficult of accomplishment when the disease has spread beyond a certain size. Dr. Colles says :—" I have known a chancre completely cut out on the first or second day after its appearance, yet the occurrence of secondary symptoms was not prevented." (Op. cit. p. 77.) If this were a very common result, it would indeed not only be a reason for rejecting the plan, but also for doubting the statement, now sometimes advanced, that the poison is not ab- sorbed in the early stage of a chancre, and not till the sore has begun to granulate. (See Key, in Med.-Chir. Trans. ; and Wallace, On Ven. Dis.) When the chancre is situated on the glans penis, Mr. Hunter thought touching the sore with nitrate of silver preferable to cutting it away, because the hemorrhage from the cells of this part would be considerable after the use of the knife. If i caustic be used, it should be pointed at the end, like a pencil, in order that it may only touch such parts as are really diseased ; and its application should bo repeated till the surface of tlie sore. after the separation of the last sloughs, assumes a red and he.ilthy appearance, when it will heal like any other sore made with caustic. [Nitric acid will be fuund the surest escharotic for the purpose of destroying a chancre.] When the caustic could not be conveniently employed, Mr. Hunter sometimes recommended the excision of chancres. When a chancre is de- stroyed almost immediately on its first appear- ance, Mr. Hunter believes that there is little danger of the constitution being infected, as it is reasonable to conclude that there has not been time for absorption to take place. However, on account of the impossibility of being certain on tliis point, he recommends mercury to be given, from motives of prudence; the quantity of which medi- cine, he says, should be proportioned to tJae dura- tion and progress of the sare. When the chancre is large, Mr. (Hunter deems mercury absolutely necessary • and he conceives that very little good then results from the extirpation. Amongst later advocates for the application of caustic to chancres, Delpech was one of the most zealous ; and the nitrate of mercury was what he commonly employed ; but he abstained from the practice when much inflammation was present. {Cldr. Clinique, t. i.) When the disease is in the ulcerating stage, nr when the process of granulation has only partially commenced, the late Mr. Wallace had no doubt of the utility of immediately applying the nitrate of silver, in such a maaner as to destroy the diseased surface:—" I have treated, over and over again, primary syphilitic ulcers with tliis caustic, and others without it, in the same individual, at tiie same time, and under circumstances as nearly as possible similar in every respect ; and the result has uniformly demonstrated the very great advan- tage of the former over the latter practice." He adds, " It will stop the process of ulceration ; and, by preventing in a great measure the necessity of the state of granulatioa, it will lead directly to cicatrisation. It destroys a surfiice which seems to have a power of contaminating, for a limited period, continuous parts," &c (See Wuikice, On Ven. Dis. p, 93.) Should any portion of the ulce- rated surface have entered on the stage of granula- tion, Mr. Wallace took care not to touch that por- tion with caustic. He adverts also to an interesting fact, which was communicated by M. Velprau to the Acad. Royale de Me'd., viz. the application of the nitrate of silver to the pustules of variola arrests their further progress—a fact deraonstr.Hting that the power of caustic to control the action of disease, caused by a morbid poison, is not limited to syphilis. (P. 93.) In London, the excision of chancres is now rarely or never performed, though the late ]\Ir. Wallace sanctions the practice " when the case pi'esents itself during the first stage, and while the part is only in the state of circumscribed phlogosis:" he adds, " and for security against the constitutional symptoms, the patient should be treated constitiitionallj-, as if he had not applied until the disease was more advanced." (^Wallaoe, op. cit. p. .91.) The attempt to destroy chancres with caustic, though occasionally made, is not resorted to with the view of supersedine the employment of mei- ciir}'. The applications to chancres, according to my judgment, should be adapted to the different coiidi-