TETANUS, absence of inflammation in wounds that cause teta- nus. (Med, Reg. vol. i.) Dr. Reid knew of a case in which tetanus fol- lowed the mere stroke of a whip-lash under the eye, though the skin was not broken. Andral refers to an instance in which the formation of a seton on the chest occasioned a fatal attack of teta- nus. (CUnique Med. t. iv. p. 44.').) Mr. Morgan also speaks of one case in which the stroke of a cane across the back of the neck, and of another, in which a blow on the head with the same instru- ment, produced the disease: in both, the result was fatal. {Led. on Tetanus, 1833.) The ex- traction of a tooth has produced the disorder. Wounds, then, of everj' description may give rise .to tetanus, and in warm climates, very trivial in- juries produce it. Thus, in Egypt, Larrey had one case which proceeded from the lodgment of a small piece of fish-bone in one of the sinuses of the fauces. {Mhn. de Chir. Militaire, t. i. p. 254.) In colder regions, traumatic tetanus seldom hap- pens, except from contused, punctured, or lacerated wounds; or wounds of the ginglymoid joints, with lacerations of the tendons and ligaments ; compomid fractures, or dislocations; deep pricks in the sole of the foot; and especially lacerations or ulcerations of the fingers and toes. A partial division of a nerve has been suspected as a fre- quent cause ; but as some nerves must be imper- fectly cut through in almost every wound, and yet tetanus does not arise, this cause is not invariably effectual. Baron Larrey, however, has recorded a fact which favours this doctrine, as I shall pre- sently notice; and a case in which the branch of the median nerve, going to the thumb, was found partly torn through, and its extremity inflamed and thickened, has been related by Mr. Listen. {Ed. Med. and Suiy. Journ., No. Ixxix. p. 292.) The inclusion of the nerves in ligatures, applied to arteries, is anotlier alleged cause of tetanus; but as this fault is very common, and tetanus rather rare in this country, while it may follow all sorts of wounds, whether from accidents or operations, we must believe that sume particular state of the sys- tem is required to render this cause efficient. Hosvever, there are some cases and observations on this point adduced by Larrey, which will be quoted in the sequel of this article. (See t. iii. of his Mem. de Chir, Md.) At the same time, I do not mean to hint that the nerves are not sometimes tied in tetanic cases, or that the practice is not on every account blameable. Amputation and cas- tration are the only great surgical operations to which I have seen tetanus succeed ; tnough it may follow the employment of the knife on less severe occasions. In St. Bartholomew's Hospital it once followed the operation of removing the breast. There cannot be a doubt, that difference of climate makes considerable difference in the degree and danger of tetanus. Larrey found that in Egypt tlie diseasu was more intense, and bore a greater resemblance to hydrophobia, than in the colder climate of German}-. In both these coun- tries, he remarked that when the wounds causing tetanus injured nerves situate on the forepart of the body, eniprosthotontis was occasioned; that if the posterior nerves were hurt, opisthotonos fol- lowed; and that when the vvound extended quite through a limb, so as to injure equally both de- scriptions of nerves, complete tetanus ensued. lie noticed, also, that the diseasu commonly arose 713 from wonnds, when the seasons and temperature passed from one extreme to another. Exposure to the cold damp nocturnal air, he found particularly conducive to it. (See Mem, de Chir. Milit., t. iii p. 286.) [Although it is not admitted that atmospheric changes have" any influence as a real point of causation, yet there are certain facts to be borne in mind which must not be overlooked. Larrey re- marked that tetanus was apt to prevail after sudden change from heat to cold, especially tiie cold moist air of spring nights. After the battle of Moscow, in the midst of great heats, very few of the French troops were affected with tetanus, whereas those who were wounded in the battle of Dresden, where the weather was cold and wet, just after a very hot season, were decimated by that complaint, which did not spare even those who underwent immediate amputation. Hennen {Military Surgerij) remarks " that it is a fact not a little curious that patients under similar circumstances in every respect, of ao-e, diet, nature and period of infliction of wounds, as well as accommodation for their cure, shall become liable to it in one hospital or district of a town and be free from it in another. In almost all tlie in- stances that I have seen, the patients have been exposed to a stream of air directly blowing upon them. This has been sometimes cold, and at other times of a high temperature." Sir G. Blane remarks, "that tetanus affected some ships remarkably more than others, parti- cularly the 'Barfleur ' and ' Bedford,' though the wounds had nothing peculiar, nor were in greater proportion than the rest of the fleet. Four died of tetanus in each of the above ships. This dis- ease took a run in some particular ships after the battle of the Chesapeake. I have known it prevail in some particular hospitals more than others.'' On board the «Dreadnought' hospital ship tetanus has been observed to prevail at certain states of the weather, and that it has attacked certain sides of the ward. Of the 72 cases admitted into Guy's Hospital {Op. cit. p. 64), 41 were admitted with tetanus and of these 14 cases could be distinctly traced and associated with exposure to sudden change of tem- perature, either as the original cause, and called idiopathic, of which there were four cases; or as the forerunner or direct antecedent of tetanus com- bined with a previous lesion, and called traumatic. Thirty-one cases had tetanus supervene after ad- mission into the Hospital for injury, and in three of these cases there was direct evidence of expo- sure to draught and cold previous to the attack. It is generally agreed that idiopathic tetaiuis is mainly due to exposure to damp and cold, and sudden vicissitudes of temperature, and that its onset sinnilates rheunuitism very nmch. All these facts tend to show that the wound of the nerves is not the only cause of the disease, Rheumatism is a blood poison. Is idiopathic tetanus so too ? or is it extreme irritation of the cutaneous nerves ? Take it for granted that traumatic tetaiuis is in all cases due to local irritation of a peculiar nerve- why Ciinnot we check the disease at its very onset by local menus ? Why are we obliged to have recourse to powerful internal remedies for its cure How is it that ([uininc has such a beneficial eflecr especially in the idionathic variety .p All these