suppuration from which has certainly jinything but a curative action. " There remains then tlie qiiestion—has syphili- sation any specific effect over the disease, or is it devoid of all appreciable influence whatever? It will he obvious how great is the difficulty of eliminating the element of time and the natural tendency towards recovery in the consideration of such a question ; it will not therefore be thought surprising if onr conclusions regarding it are not precisely in accord. " It is the impression of one of us (Mr. James Lane), from the observation of these cases, that syphilisation does exert some beneficial and specific influence over the progress of the disease, possibly in the way ascribed to it by Dr. Boeck. It has appeared to him that the treatment conducts patients through the disease more safely and rapidly than if they are left to themselves ; that it leaves them with less liability to relapse, and that their relapses when they do occur are milder in character. "Mr. Gascoyen, on the other hand, thinks that the natural tendency to recovery which an early and uncomplicated constitutional syphilis exhibits with the lapse of lime, and under circumstances favourable to the general health—such as thedietary, rest, regular hours, &c., of a hospital afTord—is sufficient to account for the subsidence of the secondary symptoms during syphilisation ; and he is doubtful whether relapses are less frequent under this than under the ordinary methods ot treatment. Neither does he admit any specific or other influ- ence on the disease or the system from the con- tinned inoculation of the virus. Were such the case, these fresh introductions of virulent matter ■would, in his opinion, either add to and intensify the existing disease, or else contaminate the blood until a general cachexia. is produced, neither of which conditions is met with in practice, but the contrary. He, therefore, considers that no effect whatever is produced either upon the disease or the system by syphilisation. " Differing, however, as we do, on the scientific aspect of the question, we are entirely in accord as to its practical bearings, and we are decidedly of opinion that syphilisation is not a treatment ■which can he recommended for adoption. We consider that, even if it could be admitted to possess all the advantages claimed for it by its ad- vocates, its superiority over other modes of treat- ment, or in many instances over no treatment at all, would not sufficiently compensate for its tedi- ousness, its paiiifnlness, and the life-long marking ■which it entails upon the patient. " If syphilisation could be relied upon, after other treatment had failed, to control the severer forms of the disease (especially in its tertiary stage), or to prevent its hereditary transmission, the benefit derived would, without doubt, more than counter- balance these disadvantages, but unfortunately these are precisely the cases in which it has ad- mittedly the least influence. " We will mnv refer to some points in tlie patho- logy of the disease which are illustrated by these experiments. "The matter em])loyed for inoculation in these cases was obtained souiotimcs from hard times from soft sores. Whenever it ticable, matter from hard sores was used. Dr. Boeek prefers this kind of matter for the purpose vor.. II. VENEREAL DISEASE. 977 of syphilisation, having found it more rapid and effectual in its curative action, and leas locally irritating; nevertheless, he does not believe there is any essential difference in the operation of the two kinds of matter. " There has been a marked difference in the in- oculubility of the secretion from these two varieties of venereal ulcers. When matter from soft sores was used, pustules were readily obtained in the great majority of cases, hut not in all. When matter from hard sores was employed, the same result was obtained, but with considerable diffi- culty, and the failures were more frequent. The difference in the inoculability of the two kinds of sores would appear to depend in a great measure on the different character of their secretion ; that from the soft sore consisting of well-developed pus, whilst that from the hard sore is scanty and serous, and often altogether destitute of pus-globules. This difference was, -we believe, first pointed out by Mr. Henry Lee [British and Foreign Medico- Chinirgind Review, October 1(356, and April 1859), who also showed that if the hard sore were artificially irritated and made to secrete pns, it then became inoculable without much difficulty. This is in accordance with the expe- rience of Dr. Boeck, who has observed that in pro- portion as the secretion is thin and serous, so will be the probability of failure. He therefore re- commends that a piece of dry lint should be left in contact with the sore for twenty-four hours, at the end of which time there •will commonly be found a thick purulent secretion ; or this result may be more readily obtained by the artificial irri- tation of the sore with a stimulant, such as savine powder or savine ointment. From the matter thus formed a positive result can usually be produced by inoculation. In cases of failure he inoculates daily, and in this way rarely fails of success. " The view that properly developed pns is neces- sary for the successful inoculation of syphilis (at all events, on a syphilitic patient) is supported, conversely, by the experiment of Rollet, who found that if the secretion from a soft sore were deprived of its pus-globules by filtration, the remaining liquor puris was not inoculable. "Among the cases we have related will be found five examples of successful inoculation, made di- rect from typical indurated sores, carefully selected for the purpose, and as the possibility of inoculat- ing a syphilitic patient from sores of this descrip- tion has been denied of late years by many emi- nent authorities, we would direct special attention to these cases, as tending to elucidate a much con- troverted question. " The first example was in Case 22, the male pa- tient treated by Mr. Walter Coulson. This man had an indurated chancre on the prepuce and a secondary eruption. He was inoculated successfully frorn his own sore by Mr. Coulson, but it was not till after a daily inoculation for nearly three weeks that a positive result was obtained. From this a scries of seven generations was produced, and the matter was used in the inoculation of several other patients. "The next instance was in a female (Case 9), who was successfully inoculated from the primary sore of the above miile patient, after it had been irritated for two days with savine ointment. Six punctures were made, and all six were followed by a positive result. The pustules were well de- 3 U some was prac