1 URINARY LUMo acid calculus forms a hard, inodorous con- cretion, of a yellowish or brown colour, similar to that of wood, of various shades. According to Professor Murray, calculi of this kind are in fine, close layers, fibrous or radiated, and generally smooth on their surface, though sometimes a little rough. They are rather brittle, and have a specific gravity, varying from 1,276 to 1,786, but usually above 1,500. When it has been dissolved in boiling water, small yellowish crystals are depo- sited as the fluid becomes cold. Lithic acid cal- culi blacken, but are not melted by the blowpipe emitting a peculiar animal smell, and gradually evaporating, until a small quantity of white ash re- niajns, which is alkaline. They are soluble in the cold, in a solution of pure potassa, or soda, and from the solution a precipitate of a fine white powder is thrown down by an acid. They are so in nitric acid when assisted by heat; and the resi- due of this solution, when evaporated to dryness, assumes a remarkably bright pink colour, which disappears on adding either an acid or an alkali. In many of these calculi the lithic acid is nearly" pure; in others there is an intermixture of other ingredients, particularly of phosphate of lime, and phosphate of ammonia and magnesia; and, in almost all of them, there is a portion of animal matter, which occasions the smell, when they are burnt, and the loss in their analysis. (See Mur- rafs Chemistn/, vol. iv. p. 640 ; and Marcefs J^ssay on ihe Chem. and Med. Hid. of Calculous Disorders, 8vo. Lond. 1817.) Fourcroy described a species of urinary calculus composed of the urate or lithate of ammonia. Dr \V oUaston, Mr. Brande, and Dr. Marcet did not, iiuwever, satisfactorily ascertain the presence of tins substance in any of the concretions which tliey examined. The investigations of Dr. Prout, However, establish the reality of the lithate of ammonia calculus. Lilhute of Ammonia Calculus, according to Dr. Prout, 13 generally of the colour of clay. Its surface IS sometimes smooth, sometimes tuberculated. It is composed of concentric layers, and its fracture re- sembles that of compact limestone. It is generally of small size, and rather uncommon ; but the lithate of ammonia very frequently occurs, mixed with lithic acid, forming a mixed variety of calcu- lus. Under the flame of the blowpipe it usually decrepitates strongly. It is much more soluble in water than the lithic acid calculus, and always gives off a strong smell of ammonia on being heated with caustic potash. T/ie litlude of ammonia is also readily soluble in the alkaline ^ubcarbonates, wkuli pure lithic acid is 7iot. {Prout on Gravel, &<-•. p. 83.) Uric or Zanthic Oxide Calculi.—Dr. Marcet met with two specimens of urinary calculi, entirely Uilterent from any which have hitherto been noticed. One of these he named xanlhic oxide, irom fa^-Siy, yelloxv, because one of its most cha- racteristic properties is that of forming a lemon- culoiired compound when acted upon by nitric acid. LA similar calculus was met with by Stromeyer, n portion of which is now in the museum of Guy's i-lospital. It appears to bo of extremely rare oc- currence, and not to be deposited in the urine in a crystalline firm. It is supposed to arise from de- scent oxidation of the materials from which uric ncid 18 formed. It differs from this latttr sub- "aiice, and also from urate of ammonia, in not be- CALCULT. ^.j coming red on the addition oj nitric acid. This calculus 18 of a more yellow or salmon colour than those of uric acid or urate of ammonia. It assumes a shining waxy appearance when subjected to friction.] Treatment of Urio Acid Deposits and Calculi.— The stone being a severe nfll.ction, and the opera- tion hazardous and painful, a variety of experiments have been instituted for the purpose of discovering a solvent for urinary calculi. Hitherto, however, all the remedies and plans which have been tried have been attended with very limited, and by no means unequivocal success, notwithstanding many persons may have been deceived into a contrarv opinion, ■' The dissolution of stones in the bladder has been attempted by lilhoniriptic medicines, as tliev are termed, and by fluids injected into this viscus At the present day, practitioners direct tlieir en- deavours very much to the correction of those par- ticular diatheses, or states of the constitution, on which the formation of various calculi depend ■ and more confidence seems to be placed in tliis aim, than in any schemes for the dissolution of urinary concretions. It is certain that, in the latter project, many difficulties present themselves, and amongst these some of the most serious are the great variety in the composition of calculi ; the impossibility of knowing the exact ingredients of a stone while it is concealed in the bladder ; and, lastly, if the right solvent were ascertained, as calculated upon chemical principles applied to urinary concretions out of the body, it is obvious that any medicines, taken by the mouth, are liable to so many changes in the alimentary canal, and in the lymphatic and vascular system, that it must be exceedingly difficult to get them in an unaltered state and efi^ective quantity into the bladder; while, if this were possible (as it is in the way of injection through a catheter), the bladder itself might be incapable of bearing the application, and the patient lose his life in the experiment. As Dr. Prout well observes, a calculus in the b.adder may be considered a substance placed in a solution of various principles in a certain quantity of water. If any of the more insoluble of these principles exist in this solution in a state of super saturation, the calculus will afi^ord a nucleus, round which the excess will be deposited. But if none " exist in a state of excess, of course none can be de- posited,and the calculus will not increase in bulk VVIioever studies the chemical properties of the urine, says Dr. Marcet, will learn that " if any alkah (a few drops of ammonia, for instance) be added to recent urine, a white cloud appears, and a sediment, consisting of phosphate of lime,'with some an.moniaco-mngnesian phosphate, subsides in the proportion of about two grains of the preci- pitate from fonr ounces of urine. Lime-water pro- duces a precipitate of a similar kind, which is still more copious; for the lime in combining with the excess of phosphoric, and perhaps also of lactic acid, not only precipitates the phosphate of lime, which these acids held in solution, but it decomposes the otlier phospliates, thus generating an additional quantity of the phosphate of lime, which is also deposited. " If, on the contrary (observes the same author) a small quantity of any acid, either the phosphoric the muriatic, or, indeed, even common vinegar be' added to recent healthy urine, and the mixturj be 3 I 2