678 TALIPES. varus, the occasional existence of such conditions must be borne in mind wiien giving a prognosis in any severe casi'. Tendons.—In fcetal and infantile specimens of ■varus, the tendons will always be found to be soinewliat displaced, in adaptation to the altered position of the b.mes of the loot, the displacement T:irving according to the severity of the case. 1 he tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle, as It crosses the ankle-joint (the point u e select for its division ), is displaced vei v much to the inner side; and the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle is in some cases situated on, rather than b.'hiud, the inner malleolus, so that at the point we select for its division (viz , just above the malleolus) this ten- don is relatively much more forward than in the hcalthv foot. In reference to the second part of its course—between the inner malleolus and its insertion into the navicular bone—it is very im- portant to observe that in severe cases the pos- terior tibial tendon does not pass beneath the inner malleolus, and then obliquely downwards and forwards, in front of this process, towards its insertion into the navicular bone, as in the healthy f.int; because the navicular b.uie itself is displaced by the contraction of the tibialis posticus muscle, so as to be held in contact with the inner malleolus. In severe cases, therefore, the posterior tibial tendon passes directly downwards from the inner malle.ilus to its insertion into the navicular bone, which it immediately reaches. This anatomical fact determines the position in which the pos- ter! .r tibial tendon must be divided—viz., just above the inner malleolus before it enters the dense tubular sheath; and it also proves that this tendon cannot be divided "a little below and in front of the inner malleolus," the suuatioii ill which Mr. Synie (see a Giiidcal Leciure on Teaoloiuy, by Mr. Synie; Lancet, March 17, 185.5) recommeiuls the oiieration to be performeil, and where some surgeons still attempt to divide the tendon. In slight cases of varus, and where there is no rigidity oF the feet—i.e., in cases ill which the foot can be restored by manipula- tion nearly to its natur.il position befire the operation-^the navicular bone can no doubt be diMwii from the inner malleolus nearly, if not quite, into its normal position, and the posterior tibial tendon mav be divided in the second part of its course, i.e., " a little below and in front of the inner malleolus;" but in such cases the division of this tension is usually not required, and more- over the situation is plivsiologically objectionab e, in con.-equeiice of the dense slieath m which the tendon lies, and to which the divided extremities of the tendon are very apt to become adherent, without any direct connexion with each other; the true reparative process is thus arrested, and coni|ilete non-union established. The iendo-AchiUis,\\\ severe cases of infantile varus, does not occupy its normal position with respect to the axis of the le;;, or its relations to the malleoli. In all cases of varus the os calcis has a lateral obliquity, the tuberosity of this bone in- clines towards the fibula, and is sometimes even in contiict with it; it follows, therefore, that the tendii-Achdli.o, as it passes towards its iu-ertion into ilie tuberosity of the os calcis. must incline towards the fibula", in a degree proportionate to tne severity of the case. There is some dilliculty in judging ot the exact relations of this tendon by external examination, in consequence of the diminished prominence of the inner malleolus, and the posterior surface of the tibia being brought into what might he regarded as the lateral asoect of tl'.e foot; but if the position of ihe tendo-Achillis be judged of by its relation to the outer iiialleoliis, which can always be felt, the difficulty disappears, and the tendon will be found to deviate towards the fibula in proportion to the severity of the case, and therefore is further removed fmrn the posterior tiliial artery than in the healthy foot. Vessels and Nerves.—As tlie vessels and nerves, in their course from the leg to the foot, follow the direction of the deformity, they neces- sarily deviate to a corresponding extent in their normal direction and relations; but, practicall)', these deviatiims are of little importance, as they do not very materially alter their relations with respect to tne tendons. From the description above given, of the morbid anatomy of talipes varus at the period of birth, it will be seen that this deformity is by no means so simple and uncomplicated with organic lesions as might be inferred from the account given by most writers on this suliject. It is not simply a dis- placement of certain bones, whether from muscular action or malposition in utero, which have previ- ously been well-formed, and accompanied with contraction and structural shortening of certain muscles, as first taught by Scarpa, and since adopted bv nearly all authorities on this subject ; but, on the contrary, malformation—consecutive or adapted miilformation, it may be called—ot the astragalus is always present in a degree propor- tionate to the severity of the deformity. Very important ligamentous alterations from adapted f,'rowth are also present in severe cases. Devia- tions in the direction and relative position of the tendons are constantly present, and a variety of abnormal conditions in the muscular structures are sometimes met with. 2nd. Morbid Anatomy of Talipes varus in the A didl. The eflect of allowing the deformity to remain unrelieved must necessarily be, that during the .rrowth and ossification of the bones, all the devia- tions in form above'described as existing at tne period of birth, become confirmed; and the lii/a- ineiitsalso, in their adapted urowth, most materially tend to render the deformity permanent and in- curable. It is to be observed also that the bones do not grow at their normal rate, or attain their full proportionate development—nordo they acquire then-natural degree of d -nsity; thej' rem iii. thin- shelled, light, cancellous, and fatty. 1 h.-se changes result from a generally defective state of nutrition, constanth- present in the legs of club-looted indi- viduals, and essentially depending upon muscular disuse. With respect to the Bones,—//« os calcis is altered in position to an extreme degree, and is also much altered in form The tuberosity is elevated, so that this bone occupies a very oblique or nearly vertical P"S'tio.i ; and It has also a marked degree of lateral »l'l|'l'>"J' the tuberosity being immediately belmul the i- ,,„la. The superior surface o 'he "S caic m contact with the posterior border of ' surface of the tibia, and also with 1^ ';' l";^' of which rest upon it, so that the os «/^^Pl to enter into the composition of the aukle-joint.