1033 ■\VOUNDS. nature of the wound, it is useless or undesirable to iitteii pr, it (lis ill wo\iiid3 wliose lips are niiicli cnnuised or lacerated), then such dressings are eni- jiloyed as its requirements at the tiine demand. " Healing by granulation" is, as was shown, a nuich more protracted and a more perilous pro- ceeding than "immediate union" or "primary adhesion," and its progress must be watched and carefully guided by the surgeon, so as to avoid those complications to which it is open. Of late the treatment of such wounds has attrac'ed much attention, and the antiseptic n ethod of treatment, or tlie use of various disinfectants, have been re- placing the old '■ water-dressing " of later years. If a wound ia not covered up from sight, and is daily dressed, we vary the applications according to its demands. A granulating open wound is to be managed in accordance with the principles laid down for vilcers. (See Ulcers.) In order that granulating surfaces may unite, it is necessary that the granulations on either sur- face should correspond, or nearly so, in develop- ment ; that they should be health}', and fitted tn accomplish the end sousht ; that they should be brought gently into contact and kept so during the period of union ; and la.'stly, that all inflammation should be warded off. If these conditions are ful- filled the adhesion of such surfaces is often rapid and complete. To obtain healing by scabbing, the air must be excluded by some of the ) bins already reviewed, whereby an artificial crust is formed. To allow the blood or other discharges to dry and cnver the breach of surface is a dirty method of obtaining the result, and is often wholly insufficient. Mr. Lister's plan of managing the wound is an efficient means of covering, and at the same time disinfect- ing it. The colloid styptic is a very admirable method of securing a crust; while by collodion, various gums, solutions of gutta-percha, &c., the same result is attained. The method, too, of e.x- pediting the formation of a scab b}' the projection of a current of air on the open surface has already been spoken of. That healing by scabbing should take place, inflammation in the part must fie subdued, otherwise the amount of secretion thrown out would cause a constant displacement of the crust. Let us now turn to the treatment of the different kinds of wound, and indicate the method which the surgeon is to pursue in each case. Incised Wounds heal quickest and most satis- factorily, and with the least risk of complications. The measures fitted for bringing about immediate or early union liefore described are here demanded. Before these are employed the bleeding must of course have ceased, and whatever steps are required to secure that must be put in force. Contused an l Lacerated Wounds must be care- fully cleared of foreign bodies, any bleeding vessel secured, and an attempt made to tmite such por- tions as are capable of being so treated, by early adhesion. If the bruising is great, early unioii will fail, but no harm can arise from attempting it so long as all secretions are carefully given vent to, and inflammation subdued. If primary union fail, then the treatment resolves itself into that for open wounds, and that has been reviewed at length. These wounds do not require enlargement or '"scarification," as was at one time supposed, unless, during treatment, some evident and well- understood end demand it. If an extension of the wound is reqi ir'd, it is almost needless to say it should be mat'e, if possible, in a dependent direc- tion, and parallel to blood-vessels and nerves, and so as to occasion the least amount of destruc- tion of tissue. Any sloughs which form must be separated by the use of poultices or warm-water dressing, aided by the judicious interference of the surgeon when the opportunity presents itself. It is in the treatment of these wounds that we gain the greatest amount of good from I he vise of disinfectants, irrigation, &c.. and that efficient drainage is most essential. When the sliMigh is separated and a granulating wound is to be managed, we employ those appliances which the features of the sire at the time suggest (see Ulcers). It must be stimulated, soothed, iir simply protected from harm, according to its requirements. During cicatrisation every means should be employed to supply the place of lost tissue and to prevent deformitj', to keep orifices free and articuhitions unfixed, b}- posi- tion, bandages, splints, plaster, &c. The "desire to meddle" should be strenuously sub- dued, and the intelligent aid of an "'attendant on nature " alone aimed at. Sutures are not usually aopropriate to these wound.=, but both in their early and late stage they are often of great service in obtaining, it may be, partial primary adhesion, or in keeping granulating surfaces in contact. In very severe lacerated wounds in which portions of the body are torn off, as by machinery or by round shot, we may be called on to perform an operation in order to render more regular the parts which remain, and to make them more capable of healing firmly. Blood-vessels and nerves ma)' have to be shortened, and the former secured, muscles may require to be cut clean, and splintered bone removed. The ingenuity of the surgeon is often severely taxed to perform all this with the best results and the least risk to life. Frequently he performs most irreguhir operations, so far as "methods" are concerned, but he contents him- self chiefly in getting a reliable covering and yet approaching the trunk as little as possible. As the risk of sloughing in the fl.-ips is, in such amputations, of course, considerable, it is neces- sary to make liberal allowance in forming the coverings. In contused and lacerated wounds the fear of secondary hcEmorrhage as the sloughs separate, <u' from ulceration, is always considerable, and will demand vigilance. All constriction and pressure should be avoided, and the utmost gentleness used in dressing till the vitality of the tissues is en- sured. As regards cases of contused and lacerated wounds which require amputation, it may he re- marked (in addition to what has been saiil above), that when the chief bluod-vessels and nerve of the part are destroyed—when the soft parts are re- duced to a pulp—when the bones are crushed to pieces, as hy the 6(]Ueeze of machinery wheels —when a large joint is opened and its !Tticulat- ing surfaces extensively fractured, and when gan- grene sets in and spreads rufiidly—amputation (or in some cases possilily excision) is required. The c|uestion of operation will, of conr.se, in all cases be nlfected by such obvious points as age, consti- tution, visceral liealthfulness, liabits, means of