82 INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS whence arise the sharp pains and colic wliich attend the disorder, analogous to the suiTerings produced by the descent of large calculi from the kidneys to the bladder. The reality of these di- latations of the hepatic ducts is proved by dis- section. Heister found the orifice of the ductus choledochus, wliich is usually very small, so much enlarged that it could receive a finger ; and Vicq d'Azyr saw this duct enlarged through its whole extent in a similar degree. {Hist, de la Socike Royale de Mcdecine, an 1779, p. 229.) Galeazzi, in dissecting a body, found the ductus choledochus so dilated, that it resembled a kind of bag, in which several calculi were included. Mr. Thomas has likewise seen two cases, in which the point of the the fore finger readily passed from the duode- num into the the gall-bladder. (See Med. Chii: Trans, vol. vi. p. 105.) Morgagni saw this duct in one instance large enough to hold a couple of fino-ers, and he quotes many similar instances from Bezold, Trew, Verney, and others. We may conceive how dilated this tube must have been in a case recorded by Richter; where, though it was not completely obstructed, a calculus weighing three ounces and a half was lodged Avithin it. {Riihini, Op. cit. p. 7—10.) With regard to those concretions which are distinguished by the epithet gastric or intestinal, some are formed in the stomach, the rest in one or other of the intestines. Some are only partly formed in the digestive tube, having a nucleus, which is usually some substance which has been swallowed, round which certain matters accu- mulate and crystallise, though, without the ac- cidental introduction of the nucleus, no concretion at all would have been formed. Other intestinal concretions are entirely produced in the intestinal canal. {Andral, Precis Elemen. d''Anat. Pathol. t. ii. p. 162.) They remain for a greater or less period in the place of their formation, according as they happen to be lighter or heavier, smoother or rougher, more or less adherent, or as local or general circumstances are more or less fa- vourable to their retention or expulsion. Some- times, they continue undischarged, until they have attained a very considerable size. In par- ticular instances, instead of remaining constantly in one place, they successively pass through the whole intestinal tube, lodging at different points for a greater or a less time. The alvine con- cretion, of which Mare'schal has given an account, was some years in traversing all the convolutions of the bowels. These gastric or alvine con- cretions, which are very common in animals, are less frequent in the human subject, as is proved by the observations of Fourcroy and Vauquelin, inserted in their valuable essay on this subject in ' the Annalcs da Museum Nationale d'llistoire Na- turelle de Paris. In the horse, they are some- times of an enormous size, as we may learn from an instance on record, in which the con- cretion weighed thirteen pounds. {Voigl, Magazin fur das Neueste der Nattirhmdc, b. iii. p. 570.) As for the third species, which Rubnii names viicncd, or hepatico-gastric, they have their begin- ning in the hepatic organs, and augment in the intestinal tube. Here, if the extraneous body be detained, and the contents of the bowels have a disposition to become thickened and condensed round it as a nucleus, it may be rendered larger by additional strata of matter, and would increase sine fine, if a stop were not put to the augmentation by the narrowness of the canal, or an effort made for the expulsion of the concretion. The crys- tallised appearance of alvine concretions is ge.- nerally so conspicuoiis, that it did not escape the attention of several of the old writers, as we may convince ourselves by referring to the works of Corn. Gemma, Greisel, Baglivi, Scultetus, &c. It was noticed by Haller in his Elementa Phi- siologiw, vol. vi., and by Morgagni in \i\&EpisL 37, de sedibus at causis, &c. If, says Rubini, these crystallisations arc not always plainly visible, dis- tinct, and regular, this depends either upon then: imperfection ; the heterogeneous nature of the accumulated matter ; or particularly unfavourable circumstances, which would equally affect the process of crystallisation out of the bodj'. Now, as all crystallisations depend upon the fluids in which they form, and from which they receive their crystallising elements, it must be evident that, inasmuch as the fluids of the hepatic organs differ in their constituent principles from the fluids contained in the intestinal canal, the concretions, produced in the first system, must differ from those originating in the second ; whilst the hepatico-gastric calculi will combine the na- ture and properties of both together. The fluid from which hepatic concretions are formed is unquestionably the bile, either sotne or all its ingredients entering into their composition. Indeed, previously to the new chemical doctrines, hepatic calculi were generally considered as being simply condensed indurated bile. From investigations made in more modern times, however, when the art of analysis has attained a precision, of which the old chemistry was not susceptible, it appears, that, although hu- man biliary calculi yield the same products as the bile, there is contained in them more or less of a peculiar substance, which was considered hy the celebrated Fourcroy to be adipocire (Mem. de I'Acad, des Sciences, 1789, p. 323), or a substance very similar to spermaceti, but which has since been proved to be cholesterine. ' This differs from spermaceti in requiring a temperature of 278 Fahr. for fusion, and by not being convertible into soap, when digested in a solution of potash. The presence of this substance in tlie concretion is of such importance, that, when it is abundant, and in large proportion, the calculus is regular and the crystallisation well finished; and, when it is in small quantities, the crystallisation is con- fused and disordered, the calculus only exhibiting an irregular misshapen concretion, more^ like a clot than true crystals. According to Chevreul, biliary concretions' in general are composed of the yellow colouring matter of the bile and cho- lesterine, the latter predominating, and being sometimes in a state of purity; "and," saj-s Dr. Turner,-"I have had frequent opportunities of satisfying myself of the accuracy of this observa- tion.'' (See Tumor's Elem. of Chemistry, p. 922, ed. 4.) . „ ., AVhile the hepatic system contains a ffuid which is always nearly of the same quabt)-, viz. the bile ; the alimentary canal, as-Rubini ohaerves, contains a hundred different fluids, and is con- tinually occupied by substances of vanoiis na- tures, kinds, and properties, consisting of food, drink, and diverse secretions. All the principles, which are to serve for the formation and renewal J