liable to be attacked by this disease, but those of the face, and especially the ossa innominata, are more subject to it than the bones of the extre- mities.] Those cases of fungous disease in the antrum which expand the bones of the face, make their way to the surface, and, destroying the skin, pre- sent such frightful specimens of disease (See Antrum), are regarded by the same author as a kind of osteosarcoma, proceeding from carcinoma in the neighbouring soft parts ; and this he adduces as an example of his first species of osteosarcoma, or that arising in consequence of previous disease in other parts. In the second species, the disorder commences in the bones, and the soft parts are secondarily affected. Boyer states that,when the disease has made con- siderable progress, and, the tumour having existed for a long time, the bony texture has disappeared more or less completely ; in lieu of it, an homo- geneous, greyish, yellowish, hard-like substance is found, the surface of a slice of which is smooth, much like that of a very hard white of egg, or old cheese, the consistence varying from that of carti- lage to that of very thick bouillie. The surrounding soft parts, which have participated in the disease of the bones, are converted into a similar material; muscles, tendons, periosteum, ligaments, vessels, cellular substance, all are confounded in the same homogeneous mass, and have undergone the same degeneration. In some examples the disease is less advanced ; portions of the bone are then met with whose tex- ture and consistence are nearly natural, and which are merely somewhat enlarged. But, in proceed- ing towards the centre of the disease, the substance of the bone is found softened, and less dense than cartilage, still manifestly retaining, however, a fibrous texture ; while, more deeply, it is converted into a material which resembles the soft parts when affected with carcinoma. In these tumors cysts are often found; some- times containing a fetid ichor—sometimes a fluid like clear bouillie ; and, in certain cases, a quantity of semi-transparent, tremulous, gelatinous matter is noticed in the middle of the lardaceous, medul- lar}-, or brain-like substance. He records an in- stance in which nearly the whole humems was changed into a gelatinous mass. (See Mai. des Os, t. i. chap. 22.) Dupuytren considers osteosarcoma to be " a true cancerous degeneration of bone," which attacks more particularly the jaws, the extremities of the long bones, and the iliac bones in the neighbour- hood of the acetabulum. {On Diseases and Injuries of Bones, Syd. Soc. 1846-7.) With the view of removing some of the obscurity of the present subject. Dr. Cumin, of Glasgow, proposes that the term, osteosarcoma, should be limited to a degeneration and morbid growth of the lining membrane of the longitudinal canals, and cancelli of bones, accompanied in all cases by absorption of the solid osseous substance. "The disease (he says) is essentially one of destruction of the affected bone, which is produced partly by the pressure of the enlarging tumor, and partly by the diversion of the fluid circulating within the bone to the support of this morhid growth. It always originates within the periosteum, and re- tains that as its investing membrane." It is generally slow in its progress ; and, in its com- A.RCOMA. "* 405 mencement, the symptoms cannot be readily dis" tinguished from those of chronic rheumatism, or syphilitic pains. After some time, a tumor is perceived, at first firm, but afterwards becoming softer, and, in certain cases, communicating to the surgeon's hand the feel of a distinct pulsation, synchronous with that of the artery of the limb, and capable of being interrupted by compressing the trunk of the vessel. In time, hectic fever, colliquative perspirations, and diarrhcea come on and the patient sinks. Towards the close of the illness, fracture of the bone at the affected part very commonly takes place on some slight exertion, aggravating in a remarkable manner the patient's general distress, but rather lessening than increas- ing the pain in the bone, connected with distention of its texture. {Cumin, in Edinh. Med. Journ. No. Ixxxii. p. 13.) This gentleman, in considering the question whether osteosarcoma is of a cancerous nature, expresses his belief that, although all the varieties of the disease are highly formidable, they ate not all truly cancerous. One case, which he has him- self related, he sets down as cancerous from a view of the whole of the symptoms, and " more espe- cially from the disease having shown itself in two different places at the same time." Another case, described by him, he does not regard as having exhibited any features of the latter disease. The malignant osteosarcoma of Dr. Cumin, Mr. Crampton, and others {Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 558), is, in fact, as they have explained, the fungous exostosis of the medullary membrane of Sir Asiley Cooper, which is now generally admitted to be medullary cancer of the bones. (See Edinh. Med. Journ. No. Ixxxii. p. 17.) Mr. Mayo does not restrict his view of osteo- sarcoma to the limits adopted by Dr. Cumin, and evidently includes the enchondromatous tumors under this term. "It consists (says he) in a growth of substance, nearly resembling epiphytic cartilage in texture, originating either upon the surface, or in the cancelli of bone. The form of the tumor is commonly more or less spherical: it may attain so great a volume as to be nearly a foot in diameter. When an osteosarcoma is small, the surfiice, displayed by a section, is tolerably uniform, or differs from the most transparent car- tilage only in exhibiting minute oblong or irre- gular cavities. When an osteosarcoma is larger, cavities of considerable size are found in it, which contain a reddish fluid. In parts, the texture grates when cut, and contains phosphate of lime. This is distributed so as to form a kind of skeleton of light bony plates, disposed in a manner that looks like a crystallisation. The growth of such a tumor is commonly rapid. When it begins in the interior of bone the disease is attended with pain ; when it forms on the outer surface, there is commonly no pain at all. An osteosarcoma has to the touch the firmness and elasticity of cartilage. This disease is ordinarily met with in the bones of the extremities, and in the lower and upper jaw. The cranial bones and vertebra; are less frequently if ever attacked by it. The disease does not, that I know of, pervade any other texture than bone. It bears, however, some external re- semblance to gelathiiform cancer of other parts. It has not much maliynity ; so that when all the bones involved in it, with part of the adjacent sound bone, are removed by amputation, the complaint