JOINTS, EXCISION OF. Similar Ij'iiig loose in the articular ciivitj examples have been recorded by various surgeons, who performed resection successfully. Thre§ are published in the Hospital Mh-ror, in the La?icet for iH61 (vol. i. p. 85 and 108). In these, either the detached head, or portions of the diseased bone, lay loose in the acetabulum, and kept up such an amount of irritation as seriously to imperil life. A recovery followed in each, after excision. Na- ture alone will not cure such cases, and the patient is certain to perish unless the exciting cause of all his inisery bo removed, on the same principle that carious or necrosed bone is removed from any other part of the skeleton. Of late years, whilst many surgeons were strongly advocating resection of the hip-joint, they dwelt upon one condition which was looked upon as a bar to the operation,' and that was disease of the acetabulum. Subsequent experience has proved that the acetabular form of coxalgia is even a more fatal disease than the femoral, if allowed to run Us course unchecked. The first surgeon who laboured to remove this erroneous idea was Mr. Hancock, who successfully excised the head of the femur and entire floor of the acetabulum in a very hopeless case. Although we have all along spoken of excision of the hip-joint, that proceeding has been chiefly confined to removing the head of the femur. Mr. Hancock, therefore, is in reality the first sixrgeon who has excised the hip-joint in its entirety. (See the Lancet, vol. i. 1857, p. 397.) In the form of hip disease which is now called acetabular, the pelvic bones in and around the acetabulum become extensively necrosed; this cavity may become either wholly detached and loose or else perforated; and the head of the femur, probably still occupying its natural situation, is denuded of cartilage, rough, and carious. With this state of the parts, large abscesses may be present both within and outside of the pelvis, and the worst examples of hectic fever are produced the patients dying in the most extreme state of exhaustion, prostration, and emaciation. Such cases have come under the observation of Mr Hancock and Mr. Erichsen, and operative mea- sures have saved life. Writers on excision of this joint, very strenu- ously insisted on its performance when the cotyloid cavity was free from disease, and the morbid action confined to the femur or soft parts. On this point Mr. Hancock very properly observes that It 18 only in a very few instances that the sur- geon can tell beforehand what is the condition of the cotyloid cavity; but supposing he can do so— that a patient presents whose case imperatively calls for operation in all respects, but that the acetabulum ,s extensively diseased, are we to abandon this patient to his fate, and allow him to die in agony ? J, it not rather an additional reason for performing the operation ? since the greater the amount of disease the smaller the chance of recovery, whilst the value of an operation does not consist in the facility of its execution, but in It IS very true that m many instances the bones of the pelvis appear to possess a wonderful power of reparation The cases operated upon show this • but If we look through the list, we find three in which the patients died sooner or later from nro fu.e suppuration, and wherein the acetlbu a were" 153 found perforated after deati,. It would seem, therefore, much the safer proceeding entirely to remove the doubtful portion of the acetabulum than to leave it behind, or merely scrape it with a gouge." (See Mr. Hancock's paper in Ihe Lan- cet, vol. i. 1857, p. 420.) Mr. Hancock's patient was a lad of 14, in whom the neck of the femur was found to be so much involved, that the bone was sawn through below the great trochanter. The head of the bone was then readilyremovedfrom theacetabulum. This cavity was found to communicate by two openings at its deepest part with the pelvic abscess. An effort was made to excise the floor with bone-nip. pers, but unsuccessfully ; witli a metacarpal saw the acetabulum was cut round, and the whole of the diseased bone removed. This exposed the thickened pelvic fascia, and a large opening was left for the escape of matter from the pelvic abscess. The flaps formed by a crucial incision were then partially closed by sutures. A splint, extending from the armpit to the foot, was applied. Four- teen days after the operation he "sat up in his bed for the first time for a year. In three weeks he dressed himself and sat"in a chair by the fire. In five weeks he was able to walk with a crutch and a stick, and finally he made a good recovery and was able to walk in the park dailj-. ' Mr. Erichsen's case, which was even more re- markable than the foregoing, from the greater amount of disease present, and consequently larger amount of bone removed, we have already referred to. The patient was in a more deplorable and exhausted condition, and, although life hung upon a thread for some hours after the operation, the girl perfectly recovered, and is alive and hearty. The operation is one of extreme simplicity. An incision may be practised of a form suited to the exigencies of the case ; if there are sinuses, they may be slit up, and the carious head of the bone, if dislocated, will be exposed to view. If, how- ever, the soft structures are thickened, and the diseased bone deeply seated, a crucial or T shaped incision may be made over the upper end of the teniur so as to expose it, when an assistant forcibly adducts the limb, rotates it inwards, and pushes it upwards. The soft structures are now divided around the upper end of the bone by a scalpel or probe pointed bistoury, when the diseased parts are at once exposed. In sawing ofi" the diseased part of the femur, retractors may be employed if necessary, to prevent injury to the soft parts ' hen the acetabulum is diseased, it maybe necessary to enlarge the incisions, care beino- taken not to extend them too far backwards, lest the sciatic nerve be injured. Any loose fragments of bono are to be removed, and then, with a gouge or cut- ting forceps, the acetabulum itself, or .-Tny other diseased parts, may be cut away piecemeal Many surgeons believe it is easier to remove the glenoid cavity in the shoulder joint, than the ace- tabulum. Mr. Fergusson observes that no greater mistake can be imagined, for if the trochanter major be taken away, a step which he recommends should always bo adopted, it is actually easier to get at the acetabulum than the glenoid cavity (See Pracl. Siirr/cri/, ed. 4, p. 468.) As ill other excisions, that in the hip is attended with but very little bleeding; there is but little risk of wounding the gluteal artery, and any of its branches can readily bo tied.