LITHOTOMY. strument being straight, instead of curved, the knife can be passed on into the bladder with greater facilit}', and with less danger of accident from its slipping out of the groove. It has, how ever, the disadvantage of being more difHcult of introduction, and when introduced it is not rca dil)' available for tlie purposes of a sound in con- sequence of its very restrained raobilitj'. The advantages believed by Mr. Hutchinson to be possessed by his instrument in respect of its being a catheter as well as a staff are, that as urine may be allowed to flow through it, there can never be the slightest doubt as to whether or not it is in the bladder ; and that it saves the trouble of using two instruments—one to inject the bladder, and the other to cut upon. On the subject of lithotomy accidents, Mr. Hutchinson states that he was acquainted with no less than eleven instances connected with the first step of the operation. In six cases the knife slipped out of the groove of the staff; in" one case the point of the staff had not quite entered the bladder; in one case the point had passed between the urethra and the rectum ; in another case the point of the staff' became engaged in an old false passage ; and, finallj-, in two cases the knife es- caped from the staff, although the latter had fairly entered the bladder. {Proceedings of Med. CUr. Soc. 1857, vol. i. p. 41.)] That the performance of lithotomy with a knife, when the operator has the assistance of a proper staff, cannot be very difficult, may be inferred from the fact that, under peculiar circumstances, litho- tomy has been performed even without the aid of a staff at all. In the spring of 1814, when at Oudenbosch, in Holland, I was requested by Sergeant Ryan, of the 1st Foreign Veteran Battalion, to see his little boy, about four years old, who was troubled with symptoms which made me immediately suspect that there was a stone in the bladder. As I bad no sound, I introduced a small silver catheter, which distinctly struck against a calculus. With- out taking the instrument out again, I determined to perform lithotomy with a common scalpel. In- deed, r.o other mode could be adopted, as we had neither staff', gorget, nor lithotomy instruments of any kind. After making the external part of the incision in the common way, I found that the catheter afforded me no guidance. I therefore withdrew it, and dissected deeply by the side of the prostate gland till the forefinger of my left hand passed rather beyond it. Tlie scalpel was then plunged into the bladder behind this gland, nnder the guidance of my left forefinger, and with the edge turned towards the urethra. The neces- sary division of the prostate and neck of the bladder was then made by cutting inwards and tipwards in the direction of the rest of the wound. With a small pair of ordinary dressing forceps, a calculus, rather larger than tlie end of the thumb, was easily extracted. This operation was per- formed at the Military Hospital, in the presence of Dr. Shanks, of the .5Gth Regiment, and several other medical officers. Not a single bad symptom ensued, although the army unexpectedly moved into the field three days afterwards, and the child travelled about for some time in a baggage cart in an exposed and neglected state. The little boy completely recovered. [The modern French operation with theLitholome 221 cachf. may be now described. It is a modification oi that invented by Frere Come. The patient being placed in tlie usual manner. the first incision is made with a convex bistomy. commencing at the raphe, a little above the level of the anus, and terminating at the middle point of a line drawn I'rom the anus to the tuber ischii. The parts subjacent to the skin are now divided suc- cessively, and the index finger of the left hand is passed to the bottom of the wound until the groove of the staff' is felt. The point of a straight bistoury is now directed along the nail of the finger to the groove of the staff, and when the surgeon has assured himself that it is well fixed in the groove, he applies the extremity of the left index finger lightly , to the back of the bistour)^, while with the right hand he raises the handle of the cutting instrument, and then depresses it so as to make it describe an arc of a circle on the point which remains immoveable. The object of this motion is to divide a few lines of the membranous part of the urethra. The groove of the staff being now laid bare, the left index finger returns to its former position on the edge of the staff, and acts as a guide to the lithotome cache, which is introduced exactly in the same way as the bistour3^ Having ascertained that the button of the lithotome is engaged in the groove of the staff, the operator now seizes this latter in his left hand and raises the handle until the concave portion is applied under the pubic arch; he then pushes the lithotome from below upwards so as to create a certain space or dis- tance between the staff and the lower wall of the urethra; and while the instrument is being ad- vanced, the handle of the staff is gradually low'ered. In this way the lithotome is advanced until the button is arrested by the groove of the staff', which is closed near its extremity in the bladder. The lithotome is now removed from the staff, and used as .a sound to determine the position of the stone while the staff' is withdrawn. The operation is completed during the withdrawal of the lithotome. The surgeon presses its handle against the right pubis, taking care that the end of the lithotome projects by a couple of lines at least beyond the neck of the bladder; he then turns his instrument in such a way that the incision about to be made shall correspond exactly to the direction of the ex- ternal incision; at the same time he presses the lithotome with his left hand against the pubis to prevent any change of direction. Having, in the next place, pressed the spring and brought out the blade to the extent which he has deemed sufli- cient, lie withdraws the lithotome in a horizontal direction. As soon as the cessation of resistance tells him that the prostate has been divided he lowers the handle and continues to withdraw the instrument, thus completing the division of the soft parts. The most difiicult step in this operation is un- questionably the withdrawal of the lithotome. The instrument should be withdrawn in a per- fectly horizontal direction : if the handle bo raised there is the risk of wounding the fundus of the bladder; if it be depressed too much, the internal incision is too small; while deviations outwards or backwards expose us to the danger of woundinir the perineal arteries or the rectum. To avoid these accidents, which, according to M. Ndlaton, nre not very rare, Boyer recommenda