UTERUS, CANCER OF. 3 u 2 noiliiliir, iiregular pn>]eciions wliich surround it. It is sometimes occluded by these, but more often lieid unuatuniliy patulous. In tliis stage, the cervix uteri being involved in a growth e.\tending to all the surrounding structures, is set fast; it has lost all mobility; or, if any remain, it moves only with the whole diseased mass. The next feature of importance in the history is the marked tendency to softening and suppura- tion. Softening is soon followed by death of the mucous membrnne of the os uteri; "an ulcer (\yest) forms, with raised, irregular, hardened edges, and a dirty putrilage takes'the place of the smooth but enlarged lips of the os. The disease may go still further; the lips of the womb and its cervix are altogether destroyed, and a soft, dirty- white, flocculont substance covers the uneven granular, and hardened surface. The ulceration may begin in the substance from softening, or on the surface without previous softening in the deeper parts. _ The stage before ulceration varies much in dura- tion. In many cases it is certain that the exten- sion of the disease has greatly advanced before the patient seeks advice. Probably a year or more may elapse before ulceration occurs. The duration of the stage of ulceration is also variable. Some- times it runs through this stage rapidly; at others, the ulceration, without healing or spreading much, is kept up for months. The patient indeed grows worse, losing flesh and strength, assuming the cliaracteristic worn, straw-coloured, cachectic^look. The discharges continue, composed of pus from the ulcerated surface, foetid from the admixture of dead and decaying materials, tinged with blood from the giving way of some of the vessels distributed to the granulations, while every now and then abundant hEeniorrhages break forth. If we examine, we find sprouting granulations or a positive fungous outgrowth from the surface, and then after a time the fungus disappears, the surface feels less uneven, tlie edges less unhealthv, and we can almost persuade ourselves that here and there a process of cicatrisation has begun. New formation and death of the newly-formed tissues go on in rapid succession—a series of abortive attempts at cure, such as prevent the rapid ex- tension of the ulcer, and keep alive the delusive hope of recovery. And, indeed, under the spon- taneous or assisted powers of Nature, it is not uncommon for the disease to exhibit stages of apparent arrest, during which the discharges are lessened, the local sullering is abated, and tlie general health improves. But, sooner or later, re- lapse is but too sure, and the patient at lemnli sinks under the exhaustion consequent upon "re- peated discharges—watery, purulent, and luxmor- rliagic—pain, obstruction to the rectum and bladder in the performance of their functions, and impair- nient of nutrition. As the disease advances upwards into the cervix, eating away the tissues, a large giiping cavity with irregular edges is formed, sometimes extending by fistulous passages into the bladder and rectum. Now, although primary cancer of the body of the uterus is extremely rare, the disease will almost always spread to it from the cervix if the patient's life besufKciently protracted. In advanced cases the body of the uterus is almost always enlarged, and this from two causes. The maintenance of an active parasitic growth, like 867 cancer, attracts blood to the organ: it grows under this morbid stimulus as it will under that of de- veloping a fibroid tumor, or as under the normal stimulus of gestation. In addition there is the extension of the cancerous deposit. The mucous membrane of the body is more generally affected. Sometimes nothing more is apparent than a general and intense redness of the interior of the womb; but much more frequently the lining membrane is covered by a dark oftensive secretion, and is beset here and there by small white deposits of cancer. Tlie irritation caused by the morbid condition of the body of the uterus will often set up a slow or chronic inflammation in the broad ligaments and pelvic peritoneum. The fibrinous effusions result- ing bind the uterus to the bladder and rectum, adding to the mass formed by the cancerous de- posit, and still further determine that firm fixing of the uterus in the pelvic cavity which is ob- servable in almost every instance of carcinoma of the medullary kind, except in the very earliest stage. Cancerous deposits take place under the pelvic peritoneum; extending, the peritoneum is involved, and at length is indistinguishable in the midst of the large mass of cancerous disease which conceals the uterus and its appendages from view. As varieties in the forms in which cancerous disease invades the uterus, it has been observed that it may—although this is extremely rare— begin and run its course in the body of the organ, the cervix remaining altogether or comparatively free; also the cancerous deposit may take the polypoid form. In this latter case the tumor generally springs from the cervix. West relates two cases. He believes this form is always asso- ciated primarily or secondarily with similar diseases in the uterus itself. The diagnosis of cancer of the uterus in the early stages is beset with difficulties. The opportunities of studying the disease at this stage are so rare, that, even vvhen seen, for want of knowledge of its characteristics, it may escape recognition. Thirty years ago there can be no doubt that cases of simple hypertrophy or inflammatory engorgement were not unfrequently assumed to be cancer; and credit was asked for having cured them. Du- parcque, Lisfranc, Ashwell, and Montgomery cer- tainly fell into this error. And, notwithstanding the more accurate knowledge since extended mainly through the researches of T^allier and Henry Bennet, of the consequences of inflammation 0 the cervix uteri, enabling us in most cases to ehniinate these conditions, the clinical observer is still liable to mistakes. The characters assumed by the os and cervi.'c uteri during the earlier stages of medullary cancer are less familiar and therefore less clearly defined than those which mark the later stages. At first ;vhUst strictly localised in the cervix, the cervix i^ larger than natural, and one or more bumps of the 81M ot half a nut, hard, resisting the finger, quite "isensible, may be found on the lips of the os uteri. 1 Here is often, also, some puckering of the os. At this stage the mobility of the uterus is not im- paired. Through the speculum these bumps show i violet-rcd tint, quite distinct from the rosy tint of the rest of the cervix. A characteristic firm of malignant disease of the 03 uteri in the earliest stage is due to the ex- tensinn or spreading of the superficies of the os whilst the cervix above remains tlie same This