INFLAMMATION. 22 sclerotic. In chronic Inflammation of the perios- teum, the effusions become ossified ; and the same thing happens, but less freciuently, in other fibrous tissues. Bone.— The direct effects of inflammation in bone arc increased vascularity, with softening and breaking down of its intimate structure, so that it crumbles under pressure and is easily cut by a knife. All its cells and cavities are enlarged, and frequently, as in caries, portions of its substance are altogether gone, leaving a cavity ; and if there is any discharge from the inflamed part, it will be found to contain de'bris and small pieces of bone. " Perhaps the most striking instance of softening in inflammaiion (says Mr. Paget) — and it is the more so, because the softening probably precedes the other evident signs of inflammation—is to be found in bones. The change depends partly on an absorption of the earthy matter of the bone, this constituent being removed more quickly, and in greater proportion, than the animal matter ; but the entire material of the bone is softened." "The most striking change is a more or less extensive and wide separation of the concentric laminas of the walls of the bone, so that the longitudinal section of the enlarged wall appears composed of two or more layers of compact tissue, with a wi dely cancellous tissue between them. In the first periods of the disease, the cancellous tissue between the separated layers of the wall has ^Yide spaces, which are usually filled with a blood- coloured medulla ; but this tissue, like the often coincident external formation of new bone, appears to have a tendency to become solid and hard, and its fibrils and lamin£e may thicken till they coalesce into a compact ivory-like substance, harder than the healthy bone." {^Paget, Lect. v.) So that the effect of chronic inflammation is enlargement with induration ; the bones being frequently, at the same time, as Mr. Stanley points out, "indurated, enlarged, and altered in their form — probably from the pressure they have received in an early stage of the disease when their texture was softened : thus the head of the femur becomes broad and flattened, and of irregular figure, with corresponding changes in the acetabulum." {Stanley, On Diseases of the Boiies, 1849, p. 23.) Fiscem.—The tissues entering into the formation of the parenchymatous viscera, and their morbid appearances in inflammation, are so varied that any detailed account of their changes would exceed our limits, and would be, perhaps, superfluous. Suffi.ce it to say that, besides the morbid changes in their areolar and mucous tissues, the special texture of the organs themselves imdergoes a process akin to disorganisation. Thus, for example, in inflamed glands, as the breast or liver, the ducts are enlarged, the lobules become greyish red and soft, and unnaturally distinct and separated, so that they may be readily torn and crushed by tlie fingers. " Such softening also may be found in the lungs: the peculiar brittleness and rottenness of texture, which exist with the other characters of hepatisation, are evidently due to changes in the proper tissue more than to incorporation of the products of inflammation." {Paget, ut supra.) The appearances and results of inflammation in non-vascular tissues are of singular interest, because in them the three essential characters, viz., structural changes, hypera^mia, and effusion, may be observed separately. While the exudation and the structural changes proper to the minute texture of the parts take place in its tissue, the hyperajmia is round and beyond it. In inflam- mation of the cornea, there is partial redness of the adjacent sclerotic, and in the cornea itself at first haziness, more or less complete, involving a portion or the whole of the thickness of the cornea, and accompanied by a granular condition of its surface. Subsequently, if the inflammation be sufficiently prolonged or severe, it leads to ulcera- tion of one or both surfaces. Similarlj', _ in inflammation of articular cartilage, the congestion is in the vessels of the adjacent bone. The change in the cartilage is either simple ulceration, or a change into a fibrous, velvety texture. The ulceration may commence either on the free surface or the deeper portion adjacent to the bone. "Within less than fifteen years ago, these changes were ascribed by pathologists to the action of the adjacent vascular tissues, either the synovial membrane or the bone ; and it will presently be seen that it was the minute study of them by Dr. Redfern that paved the way to a better com- prehension of the true nature of inflammation. (See Joints, Diseases op.) Such, then,are the general characters and naked- eye results of inflammation in various tissues. Next let us come to the consideration of 2. Microscoincal Observations and Experi- ments on the Changes of the Blood-vessels.— " There are (said a learned Professor many years ago) two hypotheses, which at present divide the opinions of pathologists, respecting the state of the capillary vessels aifected with inflammation." Ac- cording to the first of these hj'potheses, the inflamed vessels are in a state of increased action ; according to the second, they act with less force than the trunks from which they are derived. (See Tlmnson, On Inflammation, p. 64.) The first of these opinions, according to Dr. Thomson, was suggested by the views which. Stahl took of the animal economy, and his ideas respecting the tonic or vital action of the capillary vessels. The doctrine, however, was more par- ticularly insisted upon by his disciples and fol- lowers, especially De Gorter, The doctrine which supposes the action of the inflamed vessels to be diminished, or to be proportionally less than that of the trunk or trunks from which they are derived, was as far as Dr. Tlvomson can learn, first stated by Vacca, an Italian physician, in a small treatise on inflammation, published at Florence in 1765, entitled " Liber de Inflammationis morbosai, qucB in humano Corporcfit, Natura, Causis, Affeclibus, et Curatiojic." Dr. Wilson Philip, about the year 1800, endea- voured to ascertain, by me.ans of the microscope, the state of the vessels in the various stages of inflam- mation, both in the warm and cold blooded animal. It was observed by Mr. James, that "analogies between the higher and lower orders of animals, the chief subjects of these experiments, cfinnot be deemed conclusive." (On some of the General Principles of Inflammation, p. 29 ; Lond., 1821.) And subsequently Dr. Macartney went so far as to deny the occurrence of inflammation in all the lower animals, including the reptiles. (See Macartnc.!/, A Treatise on Inflammation, 1838, p. 5.) [But all the evident phenomena of inflam-