LARYNGOSCOPE. is never involved in the oedema, and therefore the expression of cedcma of the glottis, as ordinarily applied, is actually a misnomer. In the supra- glottic form of oedema, the laryngoscope reveals two tense, smooth, and rounded swellings, im- mediately behind the epiglottis, and sometimes partly concealed by the cartilage. These swel- lings may be globular or oval, meeting in the centre, with a sulcus between them, generally more prominent in front. If one side only is affected, there is observed a prominent swelling projecting across the larynx. According to the extent and stage of the CEdema, is a view per- mitted of the true vocal cords or the parts beyond the glottis. The oedema reaches its highest degree in the false vocal cords, where the strata of areolar tissue ,ire but loosely covered by the mucous membrane, and hence is explained the nature of the urgent dyspncBa which is ready to btrangle the patient. The consistence of the swelling can be determined sometimes by the introduction of the finger into the mouth, in the sub-glottic form of oedema, on the other hand, a distinct swelling is seen on one or both sides of liie sub-glottis, below the tme vocal cords, which latter are seen generally to possess their natural colour. In an instance which we had the oppor- tunity of inspecting, in the person of a girl aged fourteen, under the care of Mr. Erichsen, in University College Hospital, the oedematous swelling was seen to occupy the left side of the sub-glottis below the left vocal cord, and extend- ing across to the opposite side, occupying in addition the posterior part of the sub-glottis, cor- responding to the larger width of the cricoid cartilage. In another example, in a woman aged thirty-seven, under our care at the West London Hospital,^ the sub-glottic oedema was double, meeting in the centre, but allowing of an aper- ture anteriorly. The voice was lost in both of these cases, and the breathing was more stridu- lous and wheezing than in the supra-glottic form, possessing at the same time a peculiar laryngeal or croupy hoarseness about it. There is, more- over, intense dyspnoea, laryngeal cough, and much mucous secretion. Constitutional remedies must be relied upon, such as tartar emetic and acetate of ammonia, with some anodyne. Inhalation of hot steam, poultices to the neck, and small doses of mercurials to absorb the effused material, which proves to be lymph beneath the mucous mem- brane, thus differing from the supra-glottic form, wherein the oedema is caused by serum. We have collected some eighteen instances of sub- glottic cedema, recorded elsewhere, and although It is a rare form of laryngeal disease, it must not be forgotten in our diagnosis of dangerous cases, lor the reason that, when it becomes necessary to relieve the breathing by means of an operation tracheotomy must have the preference over laryn- gotomy. Indeed, experience is already demon- strating that tracheotomy must ultimately become the general rule in all cases of laryngeal disease to allow of complete and perfect rest to the parts' of the laiynx involved. When supra-glottic tfidema is present, the swollen parts must be scarified by means of small curved instruments devised by ourselves, and used with the aid of the laryngeal mirror, This must be continued with the other treatment described in the next article il the relief is not sufficiently decisive from the vol,. II. scarifications, a curved bougie must be introduced rapidly into the larynx, to squeeze out the effused serum. In many cases of long standing Hoarseness atid Aphonia, supposed to be due to chronic laryngeal disease, the laryngoscope has revealed the presence of one or more laryngeal growths or polypi, chiefly of an epithelial nature. Nothing, perhaps, has so strikingly demonstrated the value of the laryngoscope, as the diagnosis of such growths and their successful removal after years of suffering. Their supposed rarity in the larynx, as compared with the throat, was due to the impossibility of making them out during life, and hoarseness even of many years' duration, with occasional attacks of aphonia, was not suspected to depend upon the presence of polypi. A glance at the hospital museums of London and elsewhere will show the existence of a fair number of pre- parations. We have inspected all in the metro- polis, and those at present preserved in the London museums number thirty-one, eleven occurring in children, three in youths, and seventeen in adults. The situation they occupy in the great majority of cases is above and below the origin of the true vocal cords, larger and more disseminated above, smaller and more compact below. The root of the epiglottis above the vocal cords, and the sub- glottic space anteriorly below the cords, have the preference over any other part of the larynx for their development, and this can be readily un- derstood when it is remembered that all the ex- plosive effects of coughing, hemming, and similar acts, vent themselves upon that part of the larynx more than any other, during the succussion which the air undergoes. Next to the spots mentioned, the anterior free borders of the vocal cords give rise to the tumours ; the inner surlace of cricoid cartilage, below and between the arytenoid carti- lages, comes next in point of frequency ; and lastly the ventricles of the larynx. Occasionally, but more rarelj', they spring from the false cords, and aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The following are examples which came under our notice:—a gentleman, aged thirty-seven, was the subject of lioarseness and varying aphonia for twelve years, supervening upon an attack of yellow fever. Hoarseness followed profuse salivation for this disease. In the open air his voice was a whisper and indoors it was stronger, and possessed a rough and hoarse laryngeal sound. The laryngoscope revealed the presence of two distinct, fleshy, pedunculated polypi, attached to the vocal cords' nearly as large as peas. One was situated be- tween the two cords anteriorlj', whilst the other was attached to the anterior free border of the left vocal cord. The latter was removed bv means of the laryngeal feraseur, an instrument suitably curved, with a loop of steel wire at the end, for catching the pedicle and cutting it off on drawing the wire home. The former was removed two days later with the same instrument, and an immediate cure followed, for the mechanical ob- struction to the closure of the glottis, so necessary for perfect phonation, was removed. A second case occurred in a gentleman, aj;ed forty-two, sub- ject to hoarseness and dysjihonia for ten years. The voice possessed a hoarse whisper, us if the trachea were tied. The true nature of his com- plaint had never been suspected until the laryn- goscope revealed the presence of a polypus the N