VENEREAL DISEASE. 943 pass through the diseased glands, I conceive that some of his directions are yet too important to be excluded from this worlc. He says, the quantity of mercury necessary for the resolution of a bubo must be proportioned to the obstinacy of tiie complaint; but that care must betaken not to extend the einplot/ment of the medicine so fur as to produce certain ejects on the constitution. When the bubo is in a situation which admits of a large quantity of mercury being rubbed in, so as to pass through the swelling, and when the complaint readily vields to the use of half a drachm of mercurial lintment every night, the mouth not becoming sore, or, at most, only tender, Mr. Hunter thinks it sufficient to pursue this course, till the gland is reduced to its natural size. In this manner, he suspected that the constitution would probably be safe, provided the chancre which caused the bubo healed at the same time. When the mouth is not affected in six or eight days, and the gland does not readily resolve, then two scruples, or a drachm, may be applied every night; and if there should still be no amendment, even more must be rubbed in. In short (says he), if the reduction is obsti- I nate, the mercury must be pushed as far as can be I done tcithout a salivation, or (as I suppose, he 1 meant to say) a violent salivation. When there is a bubo on each side, so much 1 mercury cannot be made to pass through each, I because the constitution will not in general bear I this method. However, Mr. Hunter sanctions the I-plan of minding the soreness of the mouth less in t this kind of case; though he adds, that it is belter I to let the buboes proceed to suppuration than to load I the st/stein with too much mercury. When the situation of buboes will not allow . an adequate quantity of absorbed mercury to pass through them, the frictions must be con- tinued in order to affect the constitution; but ac- • cording to Mr. Hunter, in this case more mercury will be requisite than when the remedy can be : made to pass directly through the diseased gland— . an assertion the correctness of which may now be doubted. Many buboes remain, without either coming to resolution or suppuration; and notwithstanding every attempt to promote these changes, the glands remain very hard. Mr. Hunter conceives that those cases are either scrofulous at first, or become so, as soon as the venereal disposition has been subdued; and, therefore, he advises the use of hemlock, sea-water poultices, and sea-bathing. When buboes are in a very chronic stationary State, the application of nitrate of silver, the tinc- ture of iodine, or of blisters to the skin over them, is often attended with beneficial effects. When such tumors are extremely hard and indolent, it is more advantageous to let the patient have the benefit of the open air, exercise, and his accus- tomed mode of living, than to confine him in a hospital, {Assulini, Marntale di C'hirurgia, p. 64. Milano, 1812.) Stimulating the skin with hydrio- ' date of potash ointment, camphorated mercurial ointment, or antiinonial ointment is also some- times a good practice; and so is compression. The suppuration of buboes frequently cannot bo prevented by any known means. They are then to be treated, in somn respects, like any other abscess. JJefire buboes were opened, Mr. Hunter conceived it advantageous to let tlie skin bec:)me as thin as possible, because a large opening womIiI then be unnecessarj-, and no measures requisite for keeping the skin from closing before the bottom of the sore had healed. These reasons do not generally seem to surgeons of the present day so valid as the arguments in favour of a more early opening. There has been much dispute whether a bubo should be opened, or allowed to burst of itself, and whether the opening should be made with a cutting instrument or caustic. On this subject Mr. Hunter remarks that there is no peculiarity in a venereal abscess to make one practice more eligible than another. [It should he remembered that opening a bubo by means of caustic is not followed by the inoculation of the divided surfaces, as is the case when the knife is used.] The surgeon, he says, should be guided in some degree by the patient. Some patients are afraid of caustics, others of cutting instruments. But when the surgeon has the choice, Mr. Hunter expresses a preference to opening the bubo with a lancet, by which method no skin is lost. But when a bubo is very large—■ and there will be a great deal of loose skin after the discharge of the matter—he thinks that caustic may be better, as it will destroy some of the re- dundant skin, and occasion less inflammation than is caused by an incision. After the bubo has been opened, surgeons usu- ally poultice it, as long as the discharge and in- flammation are considerable, and then they employ dressings, which must be of a quality adapted to circumstances ; in the meanwhile, mercurj' is con- tinued, both to make the bubo heal, and prevent the bad effects which might otherwise arise from the specific matter being absorbed. The mercurial course is often to be pursued till the sore is no longer venereal. But, in general, since this point is difficult to ascertain, Mr. Hunter advises the continuance of mercury till the part has healed, and even somewhat longer, if the bubo has healed very quickly ; for the constitution is apt to become contaminated. However, he did not approve of this long use of mercury in all cases ; because buboes often assume, besides the venereal, other dispositions, which mercury cannot cure, and will even exasperate. Sometimes the sores, when they are losing or are entirely deprived of the venereal disposition, be- come changed into ulcers of another kind, and, most probabl}', of various kinds. How far it is a disease arising from a venereal taint, and the effects of a mercurial course jointly, says Mr. Hunter, is not certain. He suspected, however, that the nature of the part, or constitution, had a. principal share in the case ; and, I believe, few surgeons of the present time entertain any doubt of the abuse of mercury having been a very frequent cause, independently of any other circum- stance. (See Mathias, On the Mercurial Disease 8th ed.) . ' Mr. Hunter observes, that such diseases make the cure of the venereal affection much more un- certain, because, when the sore becomes stationarj-, or the mercury begins to disagree, we are ready to suspect that the virus is gone ; but this (he supposes) is not always the case. He had seen some buboes exceedingly painful and tender to almost everything that touched them, and the more mild the dressings were, the more painful the parts became. In some instinces, the skin alone becomes dis-