of iibnormal nutrition, it takes place in eai'tilaginous as well as in other textures ; but if we include cxii- (lation as an essential phenomenon of inflammation, it never affects the hum.an articular cartilage, which contains no blood-vessels and presents no exudation ill disease. So with ulceration: if we are to separate the softening, degeneration, and ejection of tissue in the formation of an ulcer, from the exudation, — which is an almost constant attendant on this pro cess iu vascular tissues, and forms cicatrices in them,— then ulceration in cartilage and in other tissues is identical, though the method by which ulcers heal in the two forms of texture is altogether different; if, on the other hand, we include in the term ulceration the production of exudation and its transformation into the tissue of the cicatrix, then it is equally clear that ulceration in cartilage and in vascular tissues differs in the occurrence of those phenomena in the latter case and not in the former. Finally, Mr. Redfern calls attention to the fol- lowing conclusions: — 1st. Wounds in articular cartilages heal perfectly by the formation of fibrous tissue out of the cut surfaces. 2iid. The fibrous cicatrix consists of white and yellow fibres, which are formed out of the inter-cellular substance of the cartilage, and out of the nuclei of its cells respec- tively, 3rd. Articular cartilages disappear after amputation at the joints, either by being trans- formed into fvbrous tissue, which is mixed with that of the cicatrix, or by slow ejection of their tissue into a newl3--completed s}'novial sac. 4th. Ulceration in articular cartilages differs from that in other tissues, in neither being accompanied bv extadation nor attended with pain,— difference's which depend on the absence of vessels and nerves. 5th. Ulcers in articular cartilages heal by trans- formation of the surrounding cartilage tissue into fibre, but those occurring in other textures are cured by the formation of a cicatrix and of newly- exuded blood plasma. 6tb. Inflammation, regarded as a process of abnormal nutrition, attended with changes in the blood and blood-vessels, including exudation as an essential phenomenon, does not occur in articular cartilages in man, simply because tbese textures contain no blood-vessels. 7th. The ■whole diseased states of cartilage are referable to a ■changed or abnormal nutrition of the texture, and to this alone ; when unaccompanied by disease in other textures, they produce no pain or other symptoms by which they can be recognised, and have much less surgical importance than they have for many years been supposed to possess. (See lied/em, in Edin. Monthly Jour. Sept. 1051.) When the cartilages are eroded or destroyed, the joint may become ankylosed by connection of the articular ends of the bones, the intervening spaces becoming filled up with fibro-collular mate- rial which forms a kind of cicatricial adhering medium. In other instances the eroded cartilnge 13 rep aced by porcellaneous deposit, and now and then the exposed or dsseous surfaces unite by bone becommg fused, as it were, into one another. This constitutes the bony or immovable ankylosis of some writers. Pathologists now assert that in no instance does cartilage become regenerated when once It has been destroyed. The <m,to«i< of aciUe arthritis must be com- menced by the adoption of the most perfect and com^pletc^^rest, for experience has pr'oved thai JOINTS, DISEASES OF unless this be adopted will prove of little aval 129 all subsequent treatment The limb, therefore, should be supported in an easy position upon pill lo\vs, or laid upon a well made and softly padded splint; at the same time blood should be freely taken away by cupping or leeching the affected part, and this local depletion must be followed b)^ assiduous fomentations. The choice of these will be left to the surgeon. In the acute stage of the disease it is recommended to give, inter- nally, the remedy from which it is believed that the most essential service may be derived, namely-, calomel and opium (grs. ij. and gr. \) every four or six hours, whilst at the same time a strict anti- phlogistic regimen is persevered in. After the vio- lence of the symptoms has been subdued, and the disease has assumed a chronic subacute form, the joint may be repeatedly blistered; but in many instances most benefit will be derived by the ap- plication of the actual cautery. This agent, when properly applied, according to the experience of Mr. Erichsen and others, yields much more cer- tain and successful results than any other form of counter-irritation. We have seen it applied on numerous occasions, and it has been extensively employed in France for many years. The patient being placed under the influence of chloroform, a cauterising iron heated to a white red heat should be rapidly drawn over the diseased articulation in a series of parallel lines, across which an equal number of cross bars are again drawn, so as to char, but not destroy, the true skin. A good deal of inflammatory action is thus set up, followed by slight suppuration. When this has subsided, the application of the hot iron maj', if necessary, be repeated ; in this way the deep, enduring pain will usually be readily removed, and suppuration of the joint may be averted. For counter-irri- tants to be of any use, it is recommended to em- ploy them before suppuration has set in ; Mr. Erichsen believes that it is only torturing the pa- tient unnecessarily to have recourse to th^se agents when once pus has formed in the articulation. In order, however^ that full benefit should be derived Irom this plan of treatment, it must be persevered in steadily for a considerable length of time, and should be conjoined with a moderately antiphlo- gistic and alterative treatment. With this view the bichloride of mercury, in doses of one-twelfth to one-eightliofagrain, maybe advantageously given with the compound decoction of sarsaparilla or if there be much debility, with the compound tincture of bark; nourishment, and even stimulants, being conjoined with it, in proportion to the advance of the debility. When suppuration has taken place in the joint, more particularly if the skin covering It be reddened at any one part, the abscess should be freely opened by one or two lateral incisions extending fairly into the joint, so as to afford a free exit lor the pus. In some cases, even when abscess has formed, the joint being perfectly loose and grat- ing, by perseverance in proper treatment, both local and constitutional, a good and useful limb may be left; and although there be mobility and grating, provided there be no sign of abscess the surgeon should never despair of obtaining a satisfactory re- sult. (See Erichsen, Science arid Art of Surncni ed. 2, p. C8(i.) The prognosis is more unfavourable when an ab- scess has formed in such large joints as the knee or hip, or in those which are important to life