SPINE, CURVATURES OF, 623 resting on the tliigh, and the head inclined for- wards and resting upon tiie hand; such a position must necessarily tilt the pelvis, and curve the spine in the lumbar and lower dorsal regions, and if long continued in a growing girl, will infallibly produce curvature of the spine. Also excessive horse c.rercise, which in delicate girls sometimes leads to spinal curvature in the lumbar region. Another scries of causes may be traced to certain occupa- /iiins tchich render the long conlinuance of some pitrikuiar position necessarj/. From this cause we IVequently see spinal curvature produced both in bnys and girls, and though in many instances as- sociated with muscular debility, which would place these cases in the second class, spinal curvature thus produced is frequently seen coexisting with the full amount of muscular strength. The occu- pations which most frequently produce spinal cur- vature in females are needlework, envelope and bonk folding, floiver making, ironing, nursing chil- dren, carrying lieariy iveighls, <&c. From ironing, and also from nursing children, spinal curvature is often produced in girls of an unusually muscular and robust appearance, and in such instances many would contend that the excessive use of the right arm was the essential cause, but I believe the po- sition alone, with its necessary result of irregular distribution of weight, to be a much more powerful and direct cause of the spinal curvature. As ex- amples of spinal curvature produced by certain occupations in boys exhibiting great muscular strength, I would refer to the case of a boy who had long been in the habit of carrying heavy goods up a low ceiled spiral staircase at a pawnbroker's shop. This was a stout, muscular, and vigorous boy, but a severe lateral curvature was produced by his occupation. Also a healthy, muscular boy, ■who had been two or three years at a gold lace factory, and was accustomed to wind the lace, which obliged him to stoop sideways. In addi- tion to the habits and occupations above referred to, may be mentioned— Inequality in the length of the legs, from any cause.—By many writers on spinal curvature, es- pecially those of the mechanical school, who under- take to prove mathematically that certain results must necessarily follow from any given mechanical deviations, inequality in the length of the legs has been greatly exaggerated as a cause of spinal cur- vature ; but, in contradiction of those mathemati- cal sequences, cases may be seen in which in- equality in the length of the legs has existed for many years, without producing spinal curvature. The fact is, it does not always do so when asso- ciated with the full amount of muscular strength. Many patients who have recovered from hip joint disease, with some contraction of the limb, or who walk lame from contracted knee joint after dis- ease, appear to have curvature of the spine when walking or standing ; but when examined Iving down or whilst standing with a book under the short leg, sufficient to bring the hip joints to a level, it will be seen that little or no permanent spinal curvature has been produced. The mus- cular power and active motion appear to prevent spinal curvature in many of these cases. In cases of inequality in the length of the legs from muscular paralysis and imperfect development of one limh, lateral curvature of the spine in the lumbar region is always produced, but even in these casus it is not often of a severe form. Inequality in the length of the legs from con- genital dislocation of one hip joi?U, also certainly produces lateral curvature, but many years are re- quired to bring about this result, and even then it is much less than the mathematical authorities would lead us to expect it must necessarily be. The same may be said of the cases of congenital shortening of one leg. About six or seven 3'ears ago, a 'child was brought to me with congenital shortening of one leg, depending upon deficiency in the length of the tibia and fibula, to the extent of about an inch and a half ; the foot was in the position of the valgus and the outer malleolus in- distinct. I suspected the tibia and fibula were fused at their lower extremities, and that the outer malleolus was either deficient or very imperfectly formed. The leg below knee, in this girl, is now four inches shorter than the opposite leg; but she is strong and muscular, and very little curvature of the snine has been produced ; she wears a high boot, with steel supports to the calf of the leg, and straps to keep the foot in a straight position. Dr. Little completely rejects inequality in the length of the tower extremities, as one of the causes cer- tain to produce spinarcurvature, and observes:— ■' I have examined no case in which, notwithstand- ing the shortening, other causes of lateral curvature did not exist. On the contrary, it is very remark- able, according to my experience, that difference in the length of the lower extremities is so rarely accompanied with deformity of the spine."* The effect of a u-ooden leg in producing spinal curvature has also been greatly exaggerated. Although by some authorities it has been at- tempted to prove mathematically that spinal cur- vature must result from this cause, I have ex- amined several young men who have worn a wooden leg for five or six years without anj' spinal curvature being produced ; nevertheless, a slight spinal curvature is sometimes seen in these cases. Among the causes which act mechanically so as to disturb the equilibrium of the spinal column, though not themselves of mechanical origin, I would enumerate diseases of the chest, such as empyema, which, after the evacuation of the pus and the permanent sinking and collapsing of the lung, pro- duces a most severe form of lateral curvature, not, I believe, by the tonic contraction and structural shortening of the muscles on the affected side, as has been explained by Dr. Little,+ but in conse- quence of the position assumed by the patient, in part from the pain suffered, and in part to favour the increased respiratory action carried on by the healthy lung on the opposite side. Although a very marked loss of balance of muscular power exists in these cases, I believe position, which is only in part dependent upon this disturbed muscu- lar balance, to be the more powerful and immediate cause of the spinal curvature. Other diseases of the thoracic and abdominal organs, such ns tumors, &c., might be enumerated in the same category, which would also include the cases of lateral deviation, not often severe, which result as consecutive curvatures in cases of caries of the spine after angular projection has taken place, and may occur either above or below the angular curvature. The local causes which most frequently produce * " Little on Pcformities," p. 363. t Op. cit. p. 352.