TRACHEA, it should be water, and used jiist before eating. Thick farinaceous food should take the place of the more liquid kinds. It may bo requisite in these cases to pass a tube by the nose into the stomach for the administration of food. The para- lysis of the liirynx which is present will demand electricity for its removal. At other times the symptoms referred to depend on a mere loss of the liabit of swallowing and breathing simultane- ously, or rather of closing the glottis while deglu- tition is being accomplished. During convalescence all intercurrent ailments of the lungs or other organs will require to be watched for and combated if they appear. The feeding will demand careful regulation, so as to supply the utmost nourishment of easy digestion. The sooner and better a child partakes of food the more successful will the operation be. Laryngotomy.—This operation is preferable to tracheotomy in many cases, from the facility and rapidity with which it is accomplished, and the small amount of danger wliich attends it. The relative value of tracheotomy and laryngo- tomy may be thus shortly stated. Laryngotoray is easier and quicker of performance, and" attended ■with fewer dangers than tracheotomy, but the orihce obtained is very restricted, and is not well adapted for the continued use of a tube. In cases of disease of the upper portion of the windpipe also, the opening is not sufficiently removed in laryngotomy from the seat of the affection. If the object in opening the air tube be merely to re-establisli respiration suddenly and temporarily arrested, as by spasm of the glottis, or the impac- tion of a foreign body, then laryngotomy is un- questionably the better operation; but if disease be the cause necessitating the operation, or if a large orifice is required, or if the opening has to be long maintMiued, then tracheotomy should be chosen. Experience proves the advantage of making' the opening well below and beyond the focus of disease seated in the laryn.x or glottis. In laryngotomy the opening is made in the crico-thyroid membrane, which in the adult is not nu)re tiian half-an-inch in depth. The space is quite subcutaneous, and no obstacle exists to its safe opening if the middle line is carefully fol- l(>«-ed. Vicq-D'Azyr, in 1776, first performed this operation. {L'Hisl. de la Soc. Roy. de Med., pour Vannie 1776.) The membrane should be opened with a slight jerk, and it can be cut either longitudinally, transversely, or crucially. If a tube is inserted it must be curved on tlie flat. There is very rarely any bleeding worthy of notice from the small crico-thyroid branch of the superior thyroid artery which traverses the membrane. To gain more room in this region than is alFirded by the ordinary operation, Boyer, in 1820, proposed to split the cricoid cartilage, and one or more rini/s of the trachea, and this operation is termed laryniio-tnwheulumy. It is easy and safe, and the opening is large, but it is difficult to retain, from the firmness and elasticity of the cricoid car- tilage. iJesault, again, suggested an operation ho termed laryiii/olomie Ihyroidieiine, whicli consisted in splitting upwards the thyroid cartilage on a director, after opening the crico-tliyroid space in those cases in whicli a free entrance was wished into the upper portion of the larynx. It could only be required in cases of foreign bodies beiii" 761 impacted in the larynx, and then only in excep- tional cases. The middle line must be carefully followed, so as to avoid the vocal cords. There is but little advantage to be gained in any case by such an operation, and great harm may be done. Vidal and Malgaigne simultaneously proposed a supra-hynid operation in cases where a foreign body was entangled in the ventricles of the larynx or in the neighbourhood of the glottis, or vocal cords, and could not otherwise be got rid of. They proposed to open the hyo-thyroid membrane by a transverse incision below the border of the hyoid bone. There appears to be very great risk of incurable fistula after such a proceeding, and no compensating advantage.] Surgical Affections of the Trachea. [1. Foreign bodies in the air passages.—The foreign bodies which ma}' find an entrance into the air passages are most various and heterogeneous in their character. Fluids of different sorts, such iis water, milk, blood or pus may pass into some part of the respiratory passages, and be spontane- ously expelled, or continue to cause uneasiness or danger, but to the effects produced by such agents or by gases the following remarks do not applj-. It is the symptoms which result from the pre- sence of solid bodies and the surgical treatment they demand that are here considered. The enumeration of those articles whicli have been met with in the windpipe is both long and curious. Coins of various sizes; husks and ker- nals of grain and fruit; shells; fish and other bones, masses of meat; chips of wood and earthen- ware; shreds of cloth; tow and feathers; grains of corn, sugar, and salt ; marbles, pebbles, insects, lurabrici, and other worms ; pieces of laryngeal cartilage; detached bronchial glands ; nails ; peas and beans ; leeches and pills ; coffee-berries ; the claw of a crab ; buttons; bullets ; an arrow head ; pins and needles ; false teeth and their setting ; a pen-holder ; a popgun ; a whistle ; calcareous. concretions formed within the passage ; polypi, hydatids, &e. &c. ' In rare cases foreign bodies have passed into the trachea through the soft parts, as in gunshot wounds, and in the oft-quoted case of' De la Martiiiiere, in which a pin attached to a whiplash was so driven in ; and in other cases extraneous matters have been admitted through ulcerated openings from the pharynx or CBsopliagus, or have been drawn into the larynx during the act of vomiting. At (ther times the intruder has come up from the lung where it has formed, or to which it has come from without as from the liver ; or yet again the foreign body may consist of a portion of the walls of the windpipe itself, which having become diseased and detached has fallen in, and come to obstruct the passage. In most of the foregoing cases, however, we have to contend with a severe and dangerous ailment of which the presence of the extraneous substance in the air passages is but a comparatively insignificant part, while on the contrary, when the foreign body gains admission by the mouth it is in itself the sole cause of the evil we have to contend with. It may here be remarked that it has fallen to the writer's lot, in the prosecuiinn of certain ofiicial duties, to find in seven instances in a period of throe years, sudden death duo to the impaction in