18 INFLAMMATION. serum alone is first exuded, and this exudation con- stitutes injiammatorii oedema, Tliere arc some in- flammations of wliicli serous exudation constitutes the most remarlcable phenomenon, as the cedema glottidis, hydrocephahis, pemphigus, &c. aud in which fibrinous exudation is doubtful. In all in- flammations the outskirts of the inflamed part are copiously infiltrated. Thus serous exudation may be considered the first of the results or effects of inflammation. The cases are rare, however, in which the serum is exuded without its share of that fibrine, the increased quantity of which is so constant a characteristic of inflamed blood; and when the serum with fibrine has been exuded, the latter solidifies partially, and constitutes the substance of the inflammatory swelling. The exudation and coagulation of fibrine constitute the adhesive stage of inflammation, or, as it is technically called, ad- hesive inflammation, which may be classed as the second effect. Now, if the inflammation have proceeded no fur- ther, it may pass into that happiest result %ybich is known by the technical term resolution, which con- sists in complete subsidence and recovery. It will be our duty in a subsequent section to point out the manner in which this may be promoted by art, in the cases in which it is possible, for it is not possible in all inflammations ; some run their course without possibility of resolution. Neither is it possible in any inflammation, if the exudation have undergone certain changes. When it occurs, the local symptoms gradually vanish; and at the same time the skin becomes moist and cool, the urine is more copious, and deposits a sediment, usually brick-red or lateritious ; sleep and appetite return, pain, swelling, and tenderness vanish. So soon as the blood is relieved of the material, •whence the exudation proceeds, and local irritation is abated, the hyperajmia ceases, the exuded mat- ters are absorbed (see Absorption), and the pa- tient is convalescent. If the fibrinous part of the exudation be inca- pable of being quickly absorbed, it remains in a more or less solid lump, constituting induration, or, as the ancients called it, scirrlms, or in bands of adhesions, and undergoing a process of development into fibro-plastic cells, which result in the for- mation of a kind of fibrous tissue. (See Adhe- sion.) In the indurations, thickenings, opacities, and interstitial deposits, produced by the remains of inflammation in the simpler tissues, that process approaches to Hypertrophy. Another common consequence of inflammation is degeneration ; loss of the force by which any organ maintains its own nutrition and force. Hence dilated heart, the staphylomatous cornea, and some cases of emphysema, phthisis, and kidney degeneration. If the inflammatory hyperemia continue, and re- solution do not occur, then the exudation, instead of being absorbed, or undergoing slow development into fibrous tissue, softens down into a creamy liquid, called pus, aud suppuration is said to occur, or an abscess to form. (Sec Abscess.) We have already described the steps by which this takes place, so far as outward symptoms are concerned, and shall hereafter have occasion to describe its minute mechanism. (See Siji'PURATION.) Pus once formed may be absorbed, and the inflammation ter- minate by resolution, but far more frequentl}-, pus once formed must be discharged, and the formation and discharge seem in most cases critical—that is to say, after the occurrence of suppuration the disease seems to have spent itself, as though it had accomplished the end that was designed, and con- valescence commences. The establishment _ of suppuration and discharge of pus, and the im- mediate subsidence of local and constitutional symptoms thereupon, is a fact which well deserves the attention of the student, as it points emphati- cally to the causes of inflammation, and the purpose it serves in providing an extraordinary organ o{ elimination, whereby noxious elements floating in the blood may be separated and expelled. Sup- puration is commonly described as a third effect or result of inflammation. When pus has been formed in the substance of an inflamed part, it is usually discharged by an opening on the surface. The process by which this opening is formed is commonly called ulcera- tion, which is often described as another result of inflammation. The mechanism will be described hereafter; suffice it to say, that it seems to consist in the progressive degeneration and liquefaction of the ulcerating tissues, and of the exudation which is intermingled with them. Tissues may ulcerate which have not inflamed; yet there are few or no cases of ulceration in which some amount of in- flammatory exudation does not occur. A very constant result of inflammation is hcemorrliage. The capillaries, crowded with blood corpuscles—in obedience to that hypertemic force, which is the prominent element of inflammation— burst, and blood is discharged into the interstices, if it be a solid organ that is inflamed, or from the surface, if it be a membranous surface. We have already pointed out the analogy between hemor- rhage from an inflamed mucous membrane and the natural menstrual flow. And whilst in inflamma- tion of the substance of organs the hfEmorrhage may be in minute uncertain patches, in some in- flammations of mucous surfaces there is a genuine shedding of the layer, and of its capiflaries like- wise. This is especially the case in dysentery, aud in acute cystitis. But there is no severe inflamma- tion which may not be attended with haemorrhage, —pleurisy, pericarditis, bronchitis, and gonorrhoea. The blood effused in cutaneous and subcutaneous inflammations, as boil and erythema nodosum, often remains, and gives a peculiar tinge to the part after the inflammation has subsided. Ha:morrhage, then, must be reckoned as another effect of inflammation. (See H.^morrhage.) Inflammation may cause so intense a disturb- ance of the nutrition of the aftected part, the capillaries may be so crammed with stagnant blood, and the exudations may so cut oif the circu- lation by pressure or distension, that the inflamed part may lose its warmth and circulation, become livid and cold, bloody serum ooze out under the cuticle and more or less of it die, or mortify, or perish by gangrene. This does not often happen in ordinary inflammation, unless the injury which caused it have been so intense as already greatly to have impaired the vitality, or unless the exudations poured out from a ]ioisoned blood are venomous in themselves. Gangrene, too, may be produced by many other causes besides inflammation—in fact, inflammation does but imitate the common conditions of strangulation; yet it js usual to treat