sufficient just to toll sliirhtly on the soro, and then as a more powerful effect is required, less water may be added, the influence on the ulcer being always watched and taken as the criterion of the amount of dilution required. Ointmenis are, as a rule, hurtful to ulcers, es- pecially if the discharge is considerable. However made, they are apt to become rancid and cause irri- tation. When glycerine is substituted for lard in their composition, they are somewhat less injurious; but they can hardly avoid being filthy, or fail to accumulate along the edges, where, mixed with epi- dermal scales and pus, they form crusts which are Iiighiy injurious. In fact, the removal of such col- lections is often the first step required in the ma- nagement of ulcers. This we do either by means of a spatula or by the application of a blister, if the sore wants stimulation as well, and its borders are elevated and indolent. In a very extensive out- door hospital practice of a good manj' j-ears' con- tinuance, where ulcers of every form are met with in abundance, the writer has long quite abandoned the employment of ointments, with very manifest advantage, and finds water-dressing and dry strap- ping, blistering, the occasional use of lotions, and above all, careful bandaging, quite sufficient, com- bined with internal remedies (in such cases as demand them), to cure the ulcers that are presented to him. If desired, however, the different me- tallic salts may be used in the form of ointment, and some of these will be afterwards alluded to. Poidlices are occasionally of much service in treating ulcers. When there is excess of action and a necessity for soothing, emollient poultices, simple or medicated b}' various additions, are ex- ceedingly beneficial; but as a rule they are used without discrimination, and in so reckless a man- ner, as to be highly detrimental. It is most pain- ful to see how they are abused in the management of sores, and what harm they occasion. To foid ulcers, too, they are legitimately applied; but it would be on the whole a gain if they were com- pletely banished from the treatment of ulcers, rather than tliat they should be so frequently employed in cases not adapted for them. Linseed-meal, bread alone, or with charcoal or chlorinated soda or yeast, when a disinfectant is required ; the same with opium, or decoction of poppies, or bella- donna, or conium, when an anodyne is needed ; boiled hops, too, and camomile flowers have a like nction. For astringent effect, alum or a vegetable astringent may be mixed with linseed-meal. For disintegrating, linseed-meal mixed with soft soap, or turpentine; and carrot, or turnip, or yeast, may be applied. For mere soothing, liread with water, or milk, or glycerine, or oil; or linseed-meal alone, or arrowroot and water, will be found good. Fomentations may often be substituted for poul- tices, and they may be medicated by the addition of vaiious decoctions and infusions. Poppy-heads, a(iueou3 extract of opium, belladonna, conium, liyo- scyamus, acetate of lead, wine, tannin, cinchona, aconite, &c. Powders are often used to close sores when they are all but cicatrised. When an nicer has closed " to a point," a few grains of starch, or oxide of zinc, or chlorate of potash, or aromatic powder, or animal charcoal, will often complete the euro ; as will also a gentle " caress " of nitrate of silver, or a small bit of goldbeaters'-skin, or the lining-mem- brane of an egg-shell, or a solution of gum, avoid- ERS. 813 ing the imprisonment of any pus beneath, or a tuft of charpie wetted in collodion. Some have recom- mended quinine in powder as an application to cachectic sores, without, as it appears, very good grounds; but it may be stated generally, that if there is any considerable amount of discharge, powders are injurious, as they serve to form crusts under which the ulceration extends. In those in- numerable cases of " weeping legs " (eczematous ulcers) which occur among working people, no more effectual method of treatment exists (when they are not very severe) than the constant dusting of them with an absorbent powder, such as fine starch, and covering this with dry lint and a bandage. In tliese cases the writer has always derived more good from this remedy than from any unctions or watery or spirituous applications, and as a rule his experience utterly condemns these appliances in this form of ulcer. Occasionally, wjien the ecze- matous eruption is not very extensive, it suits well to have the part rubbed over with nitrate of silver, either in strong solution or the solid stick, and then bandaged; but the use of an absorbent powder, combined with compression, is generally most effi- cient. Further remarks on this affection will be made afterwards. Vapours are occasionally useful in the treatment of ulcers, especially the syphilitic, the inflamed, irritable and phagedsenic. Simple vapour is useful to soothe and subdue inflammation, but when medicated by the addition of sedatives, such as opium, belladonna, hyoscyamus, stramonium, co- nium, camomile flowers, poppy-heads, &c., or such remedies as iodine, mercury, tar, sulphur, &c., they are much more efficacious. Iodine vapour is some- times beneficial in indolent sores, and mercurial (calomel, red sulphuret, &c.) in syphilitic ulcers, or those having elevated edges and hard, brawny, unhealthy surroundings. Sulphur fumigations have a very considerable influence in arresting sloughing and phagedsena. It is in determining the nature and the strength of the local remedy to be used, that experience chiefly aids the surgeon in the treatment of ulcers, but in no detail is experience of more use than in the application of the roller. To employ it in such a way that it will evenly and firmly surround the limb and ret;\in its place, while no part is unsup- ported and no part unduly constricted, is only to be learned by long practice, and is perliaps the most important element in the treatment of ulcers of the leg. It cannot be efficiently accomplished by a nurse or raw pupil, but only by a fully-in- structed hand. The bandage must surround tlie limb from its very extremitj-, and if carefully ap- plied, requires no accompaniment of padding. The degree offeree used must be regulated by the case, but in no instance should it be such as to endan"er the vitality of the granulations. Unbleached cotton- cloth, or woven open cotton-tissue is the best ma- terial for rollers. For the leg of an adult g band- ago should be six or seven yards long by two inches and a half broad. Mr. Hunt strongly recommends rollers of somewhat fine Welsh flannel to be used in preference to calico, and when this material can be got, it lias undoubtedly many advantages. Adhesive-plaster, a|ipliedso ns to cover and com- press ulcers, is in many cases the most eflicient mode of treating them. The method known as Bavn- ton's consists in apply ing strips of planter rmind the limb, from some way below to n certain dis-