many "low" inflammations of wounds after oper- VOL. II, ' ^ late i then come degenerations and degradations ations in hospitals, the name of which, if trans- lated into other words, would be " tainting of the animal fluids in and about the wound." I have verified the fact, that meat and milk, if ex- posed to sewer vapour, undergo speedy putrefactive change. We miglit therefore well imagine that . the liquid exudations of wounds would do so likewise in the vile air of hospitals, if we had not learned it as a fact from the history of erysi- pelas and hospital gangrene. The modus operandi of contagious diseases may be explained under two forms—by chemical action, per se, or by chemical action combined with vital growth. For example, we may regard some septic or morbid poisons—say those of ery- sipelas, pysemia, hospital gangrene, charbon—as substances undergoing chemical decomposition simpliciier, and communicating that state to tiie fluids of any healthy body with which they come into contact, just as a lighted torch communicates its state to a hay-rick. Qn the other hand, some morbid poisons, the true zymotic—which produce exudation with copious " cell " growth—as those of gonorrhoea, contagious ophthalmia, small-pox, and the like, may be compared with yeast, whose chemical action is proportionate to the amount of growth of new organic form. The former class, or assumed class, of poisons may be supposed to arise wherever the chemical conditions necessary for their presence are found. Wherever, for example, there is an ill-kept hospital, there hospi- tal gangrene may arise, and may linger iu any patient to an indefinite time. On the other hand, the spontaneous and independent origin of morbid poisons which are allied with something of vital growth is less certain : they possibly require a pre-existing germ for their development. They, too, usually present a definite specific course ; small-pox, for example, runs its course, lasts a given time, and then disappears ; nor can it be produced again readily in the same patient, at least till some time has ekipsed. If the efficacy of such poisons as the virus of vaccine depends on living, and not on mere chemi- cal agency, it must be admitted that living matter may exist in a pellucid liquid, and therefore with- out form and of inconceivable minuteness. The contagion of the truly zymotic poisons is as material an act as the transplantation of a growing plant or its seeds into a new field where it may increase and propagate. The pus of gonorrhoea applied to the urethra or eye, may be supposed not merely to set chemical changes going, but to undergo division and multiplication, and to communicate its own mode of growth to the epithelium in which it is deposited. It is highly probable that most catarrhal, mucous, and cutaneous infhimmations would be found to be contagious, if as much care were taken with the engrafting of secretions containing living matter as is taken with the vaccine disease. Dysentery, serous tliarrhcea, various forms of vaginiti's,' ophthalmia, and common catarrh, are undoubtedly contagious. It is worth noticing that cancer is usually reckoned a non-contagious disease. True it is timt moculation with dead and decomposing debris irom a cancerous ulcer fails to convey the disease, let experiments on animals have shown that l*mig cancer cells, injected into the bload, may 43 INFLAMMATION. propagate and grow wlien arrested in the lungs And It is important to notice that some cases of contagion ot cancer have from time to time been recorded; as by Gooch and Herbert Mayo and others. These were cases of epithelial cancer in which the essence of the disease is the over- growth of epithelial cells. They were cases of epithelial cancer of the organs of generation, communicated from husband to wife—doubtless by the communication of living germs of morbidly growing epithelium. Warts, too, are notably contagious. All these facts illustrate and confirm the mode of propagation of those inflammations which we hold to be contagious. Parasites, vegetable and animal, are occasional causes of inflammation ; amongst parasitic vege- tables of the fungus family, the Trichophyton ton- surans seems to produce the varieties of ringworm, S3-cosis, and tinea decalvans ; the Achorion Schoii- leinii produces favus; the microsporon, the pityriasis versicolor ; and a very formidable disease of the • bones and other structures of the foot {Fungus foot of India) is caused by the infection of the Chionephe Carteri. The oidiwn- albicans is found in the epi- thelium of the mouth and fauces, particularly in thrush and diphtheria, but seemsan accidental com- plication, not a cause. Amongst animal parasites, the louse causes prurigo and eczema^ and the itch insect scabies. The immature young of the tseniae in the form of cysticercus, echinococcus, and other hydatids, may produce inflammation and abscess of the organs they iufest, Various kinds of the small worms known as Dilharzia produce in Egypt a condition resembling dysentery (Aitlxn,Seience and Practice of Med. vol. i. p. 863, Ed. 1866) ; and at the Cape of Good Hope they infest the kidneys, and cause hsematuria. {Johi Hurley, Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xlvii.) The guinea-worm, Dracun- culus, may be a cause of great inflammation and abscess in the areolar tissue ; the chigoe, or pulex penetrans, may cause abscess of the''foot ; and there are the Delhi boiU Lahore boil, Aleppo lDoil,and other hardly yet sufficiently explored local inflammations, which are piobably due to animal parasites. {Fleming, Smith, Ailken, in Army Medical Report for 1868, pp. 319, &c. CobboU ou Entozoa, Lond. 1864.) ■ Lastly, among local causes of inflammation, I shall consider one which scarcely ought to be called local, inasmuch as it is often connected with the whole vital history of the individual. This is, original defect in the intrinsic vitfil force and nutritive energy of any given organ, and defec- tive structure. As a first example, I may quote the ill-developed, or over-developed bulky brain of rachitic and scrofulous children, which upon sli..|,t provocation fulls into a state of acfite hydro- cephalus, so called. Secondly are the teeth, in which delay of catting is a fruitful source of inflammation in iiiliint life, wliiUt caries is an equally fruitful source in eariy adolescence. Thirdly, the female generative system. There is little doubt but that, as slated by my friend Dr. Farre (Art. Uterus, Todd's Cyclop.), many of the " inflamiDations" of uterus and ovaries are effects of ill-development and non-perlbrniance of the proper functions of ovulation. Lastly, in thu decline of life, organs lose their vital power their power of srlf-restoration and renewal at various epochs, in some men eaily, in others