"378 OPHTHALMOSCOPE. wooden foot, has in its axis a cylindrical wooden rod, sliding up and down, and retained at any desired height by a spring on its lower end. To the top of this rod is secured a brass semicircle, which may thus be raised or depressed, turned right or left, at pleasure. A concave mirror, of about 3 Paris inches diameter, and 10" focal length, -with a central perforation, is attached to the semicircle by screws, so that it may turn •upon its own horizontal axis. Halfway up the pillar are two wooden rings, turning freely. Each ring carries an arm projecting horizontally. One arm supports a blackened screen, the other is graduated in 12 Paris inches, and supports two vertical pillars, made to slide backwards and for- wards. These contain small rods, sliding up and down, furnished with springs, and carrying the necessary concave or convex lenses. To use this instrument, it is placed upon a small table in front of the patient, whose pupil has first been dilated by atropia, and who sits upon a stool in a darkened chamber. Upon a table near him, but on the contrary side to the eye that is to be examined, stands a lamp that can be raised or lowered. The perforation of the mirror, the axis of the dioptric lens, and the flame of the lamp, must all be on the same level as the eye. While the patient looks at the lens nearest to him, placed at a suitable distance, the observer directs the light, reflected from the mirror, into the eye; and then, sitting behind the screen, looks through the perforation. If it be desired, by means of the formation of a dispersion circle on the retina, to include a larger portion within the field, the lamp roust be moved forwards or backwards ; and if it be desired to diminish the illumination, a third or a half of the mirror may be covered by the screen. For examination of a vertical, erect image, it is necessary to place in the vertical pillar farthest from the concave mirror, a concave lens of from 8" to 9" focal length. This should be distant from 1" to 3" from a short-sighted and from 3" to 6" from a far-sighted eye, but by sliding it backwards and forwards the exact distance required by the accommodation of any particular eye may be found. A short-sighted observer must use his accustomed spectacle glass. The inspection of the erect image is more especially useful in order to examine in detail the objects of the fundus oculi, and to determine their peculiar colours, as well as the transparency of the whole refracting media. For examination of an actual inverted image, it is necessary to substitute a convex for the concave lens. If the vertical pillar, instead of carrying a concave, carries a convex lens of about 1" focal length, the observer will obtain, when this lens is distant 9" or 10" from his own eye, and about 1" from the eye of the patient, an in- verted picture of the retina, magnified from 2 to 3 diameters, and showing the finest branches of the central vessels, small aneurisms, extravasations, and so forth. If two convex lenses be used, the first of lA" about 1" from the eye of the patient, the Becond of U" about 61" distant ; this combi- nation will alTord an inveited image about three times magnified, but apparently filling a larger field than the former. The {innoynnce of reflected mirror images may be removed by turning the lenses on their vertical axes, so that they stand somewhat obliquely to the optical axis of the eye. An image magnified nine or ten times, is afforded by two convex lenses, one of 1^" focal length, the other of 3", the first about 2", the second about 6" from the eye of the patient ; but the steadiness of the eye required by this combina- tion can seldom be obtained, Thesmaller OpJdJialmoscopeof Ruele.—TooW\Ai& the somewhat difficult management of this Oph- thalmoscope, and to do away with the necessity of having the patient's head supported by an as- sistant, Ruete has constructed a smaller, portable instrument, of which the following is a description: A small, centrally-perforated, concave mirror (of li" diameter, and 4" to 6"; focal length), is at'tached by a hinge-joint to a brass staff, like, but larger than, that of Coccius' ophthalmoscope. Be- hind the mirror is a spring clip to contain ocular lenses. Immediately below the hinge the staff carries a longer rod, divided into six or eight joints, sliding backwards and forwards, one upon another. At the farther end of this is a spring ring to carry concave or convex lenses. Above the handle is a cross-bar which carries a pasteboard screen on a short stem. -This instrument gives very good images, but, in consequence of the length of the handle and arms, its management and its application to the eye of the patient are some- times difficult. The OphiMmoscope of Anagnostalcis. — This instrument consists of a small, round, concave mirror, 5 centimetres in diameter, having a focal length of 4i". Its silvered surface is protected by a blackened plate of copper. The centre of the mirror is perforated, the opening having a diameter of 4 millimetres. For convenience in use, the mirror is attached to a short handle. The manner of using is the same as for other ophthalmoscopes. The Ophthalmoscope of Ulrich consists of two tubes, blackened within, and united at an angle of about 40°; one of them enclosing the mirror and lenses, the other admitting the light to the first. The length of the first tube, which Ulrich calls the "ocular, or observer's tube," is about 5", its diameter 1" 8"'. The second, or " light tube" has a smaller diameter, and on its hinder maroin a length of about 2", greater length being foib[dden by the necessity of keeping the source of light away from the patient's head. One end of the tube is provided with an opening half-an-inch in width, adapted to the eye of the observer ; the other end is open in its whole diameter, and in- closes the eye of the patient. Both are finished by proper margins. The free end of the second tube has a screen that shuts off side light from the ob- server, and acts also as a cover for the tube itselt. The source of light can either stand alone at a distance, or be attached to the instrument itself; the light being held in a ring turning on a hori- zontal axis. This ring is furnished with a screen to cut off rays from the head of the patient. In the ocular tube, close to the opening for the observer, is a small concave mirror of " 8 diameter, H'" central perforation, and 3' focal leuKth, and two convex lenses ; one of tlieni being close to the opening for the eye of the patienf Tiie mirror is set obliquely across the t»'";=° its incident and reflected rays «"-ef H L e axes of the two tubes respectively. Its distance from the opening of the ocular tube is about 4" Dehind the niirror, separated from it by a perfo- rat d diaphragm, is the 4i" ocular lens, fixed m