678 SKIN, DISEASES OF. assemble together, in separate groups, diseases which are allied in their amenability to treatment; such as resemble each other in the form of the disease; such as have resemblances in pathological products or accidental conditions; and such as are of foreign origin: and he has succeeded in esta- blishing fourteen groups, seven of which correspond with Willanean orders, the remaining seven being-.—affections dependent on vegetable para- sites, affections dependent on animal parasites, scrofulous affections, syphilitic affections, diseases of foreign origin, diseases of nails, and infantile diseases, especially of the hairs. Hardy, the most recent author of a natural classification, revives the views and some of the groups of Alibert; for example, the dartres. In other respects, his classification takes for its groundwork an etiological or therapeutical basis, Of his ten classes, seven are founded on the cause of the disease; for example, two, the special poisons of the eruptive fevers and syphilis; three, diathesis, namely, dartrous, scrofulous, and can- cerous; one, parasites; and one, symptomatic of internal disease. The three remaining classes are—one, topical, namely, local inflammations; one, elementary lesion, maculae and deformities; and, one, diseases of foreign origin. Viewed more in detail, his ten classes are as follows:—1. Macules and Deformilies, including alterations of colour, maculae, red stains, ephelis, vitiligo, lentigo, warts, molluscum, ichthyosis, and cheloides, diseases re quiring no medical treatment in general, but in the event of a cure being sought for, to be removed by the knife or by caustics. 2. Local Inflam- mations, independent of any constitutional dis- turbance; or if any constitutional symptoms appear at the outset of the disease, they are limited to feverishness of the slightest and most transient kind. The members of this group are—erythema, urticaria, herpes, ecthyma, pemphigus, &c. The treatment required is very simple, mildly anti- phlogistic, local and general. 3. Parasitic Diseases, purely local, and due to the presence of a parasite, animal or vegetable; for example, scabies, sycosis, herpes circinatus, and favus. The treatment is obvious—destruction of the parasite. 4. Eruptive Fevers, dependent on a general cause, the admis- sion into the system of a virus distinct for each variety of disease; for example, scarlatina, rubeola, variola, &c. The eruption on the skin is pre- ceded and accompanied by symptoms of const! tutional disturbance of greater or less intensitj'. In conducting the treatment, the natural course of the disease is to be respected, and complications only attacked. S. Symptomatic Eruptions: the eruption is secondary; the treatment must there fore be directed against the primary disease. The diseases belonging to this group are herpes labialis the roseolous spots of typhoid fever, sudamina, and purpura. 6. Dartres; eruptions due to a particular state, a general disposition of the eco- nomy, called diathesis. The members of this group are eczema, psoriasis (alphos), lichen, and pityriasis. These diseases are constitutional, the treatment consequently must be general as well as special. 7. Scro/ulides, an important group, de- pendent on the scrofulous diathesis. The treat- ment must be constitutional to control the dia- thesis, as well as locally alterative. 8. Si/philidcs, resulting from the syphilitic diathesis, a tendency not necessarily innate or hereditary, but ordinarily accidental. The treatment must be the same as that which is adopted for syphilis, 9. Cancers: the most common form of cancer affecting the skin is that which is termed cancroide. The treatment is the removal of the disease by the knife, or, by preference, through the means of caustics. 10. Exotic Diseases, the produce of other countries; for example, lepra tuberculosa, pian, &c. The plan of classification of cutaneous diseases will be rendered sufficiently obvious by the ex- amples which we have already given ; and we repeat, that for the purpose of diagnosis, the arti- ficial classification of Plenck and Willan stands pre-eminent. How far the natural classifications may fulfil the objects for which they were framed, we are unable to saj'. The artificial classification rests upon positive data—real pathological lesions, about which there cannot be a doubt ; not so, however, the etiological and therapeutical classi- fication. DifTerentlj' organised minds may take different views of the nature of a supposed cause, and derive from those views very different con- clusions ; and there is always the great danger, in matters which rest more upon opinion than fact, of methods, or systems, or classifications, taking the form of theories of the individual who pro- poses them. Thus, if we were inclined to survey with a critical eye the classification of Hardj', we might ask. How are we to distinguish between local inflammations pure, and local inflammations symptomatic ? Are erythema, urticaria, herpes, and pemphigus, really local inflammations with so little constitutional disturbance as to render inter- nal treatment almost needless ? Are herpes labialis, the roseolous spots of typhoid fever, su- damina, and purpura, deserving of being consti- tuted a group of cutaneous diseases, even if they were the only examples that could be selected to illustrate symptomatic eruption ? Is not urticaria ab ingestis a symptomatic eruption ? Again, is it not an extreme of courtesy to admit the roseolous spots of typhoid fever and the stains of purpura to the distinction of being eruptions at all ? We say that these are questions that might be asked, and they may be taken as an evidence, simply, of the great difliculties that stand in the way of a perfect natural classification. Of a more scientific character is the classifica- tion of Hebra, who advocates the homogeneity of the skin with the rest of the economy, and takes as the groundwork of his arrangement the patiio- logy of the general system, adapting this patholo- gical framework to the special organ, the skin. His classes, twelve in number, are as follows:— Hyper£Bmiae, anffimiaj, anoraalias secretionum et organorum secernentium, exsudationes, ha;mor- rhagia;, hypertrophia;, atrophias, neoplasmata, pseudoplasmata, ulceraliones, neuroses, and para- sita;. The hypercBmicv are active and passive, and each division idiopathic and symptomatic ; the active idiopathic diseases being erythema trauma- ticum, caloricum, et ab acribus seu venenatum; the symptomatic, erythema seu roseola infantilis, to- riolosa et vaccina ; the passive, idiopathic, livedo mechanica et calorica; and the symptomatic, cya- nosis. The anaimce are, anremia ex jactura san- guinis, and ex ineivatione anomaia. Anomalim secretionum et organorum Mccr/w/i/iwm, comprehend anomalies of quantity and quality of the sebaceous and sudatory secretion, together with comedo,