INFLAMMATION. distinctive cellular cLm-acters. But all the later stages, the progressive destruction of the textural elements, and their degeneration into fatt}- matters, Lave been distinctly, recognised. In inflamed muscle, from the earliest period observed, the struc- ture of the muscle is changed, its striaj disappear, so that the muscle appears, for a time, almost ho- mogeneous, and afterwards minutely granular— then large granules, which are manifestly oil drops, appear, having more or less tlie arrangement of the original " sarcous" elements, from which it cannot bo doubted that they have their origin ; and subse- quently the limitaiy membrane dissolves and dis- appears, and the whole muscular material is ab- sorbed, and now replaced. In inflamed nerve, too, the medullary cylinders of the nerve fibres break np, and gradually assume the character of oil. It is impossible not to see that these destructive changes, revealed by the microscope, are exactly analogous to the more conspicuous destructive acts of inflammation -which produce ulceration and gangrene. In all cases the proper tissues of the part are destroyed, the difierence being simply those of degree and rapidity. Dr. Lionel S. Beale endeavours to explain the rapid production and growth of pus cells, and their varying characters, by referring them to an escape of the growing, "germinal " matter of cells. Having supported the doctrine that every cell consists of " germinal" matter in its interior, and " formed material" externally, he considers that the living germinal matter may be set free by the destruction of the formed material, or by its softening. " When germinal matter comes into contact with nutrient material imder favourable circumstances, its power of infinite multiplication becomes apparent. The germinal matter of any tissue in the body is ca- pable of growing in this way. If we look at suppuration in this light, the cause of the different characters of pus becomes evident. In gangrene the germinal matter is killed : in suppuration it grows freely. And if this process did not occur, there are cases in which the death of the tissues must result." (RepoH of Dr. Beale's Lect. on the Structure and Groxvth of tlie Tissues : Br Med. Jour. 1861, p. 522.) Section C. Causes of hiflammation.—Abnormal distribution of blood has been shown to be the chief agent in bringing about the changes which ensue in the course of inflammation, Now, although we protest most strongly against the doctrine that mere hypertemia, or excited action of blood- Tessels, can be considered the essence or starting- point of inflammation, still, whatever be the con- ditions which create inflammation, they must be such as include the power of disturbing the circu- lation, and of causing local accumulations of blood. If we exclude the coarser mechanical agency of the heart, whoso force tells in all parts alike, we shall find that the circulation through any given part is influenced by the work done in that part ; by the amount of function carried on; of tissue worn and requiring renewal ; in fact, by the de- mands of the part for the nutrient material which the blood furnishes. Thun, in the natural state, exercise, development, and functional activity, draw supplies of blnnd. Even so the enlarging ivomb, and the consumption of material in the growth of the fmtus, causes the uterine arteries to become both more capacious and tortuous. And, m the second place, the local circulation is in- 31 fluenced by the state of tlie blood. A thin, poor, hungry blood, that whizzes noisily through, the' veins, may yet stagnate in the extremities ; whilst blood loaded with nutriment sets the heart beating vigorousi}-, makes the face flush and the eyes bright, and its effects on the brain are soon told by e-xhilaration and good spirits. The elective power of certain substances con- tained in the blood, which causes them to seek certain organs or channels of elimination, is, like all facts of its class, to be accepted as ultimate and inexplicable. We do not know wliat gives tur- pentine and cantharides an affinity for the kidneys, nor why croton oil should be eliminated by the bowels, and anise oil by the lungs ; neither can we tell why aloes should vex the rectum, and iodide of potassium the upper air passages ; why morphia should cause itching of the skin, and quinia ringing in the ears ; why henbane should make the throat dry ; cubebs produce a papular rash; mercury sloughing of the gums ; savine a hffimorrhage, and ergot a constriction of the womb; strj'chnine an excitement of the spine; lead a paralysis ; nor why chloroform and alcohol should accumulate in the nervous centres. It is sufficient for our present purpose to remember, that by introducing certain substances into the blood, we can materially modify the circulation in many organs ; that we can produce secretion, and, if we please, hypersemia and exudation or haemorrhage, i. e. inflammation ; and that thus we can gain an insight into the manner in which local inflammations are produced by constitutional causes. But, thirdlj', besides the nutritive work in any given part, which attracts blood towards it, and besides alterations in the composition of the blood which cause it, as it were, to fly to certain organs, there is the nervous system, of which we know just enough to be able to comprehend its immense power in regulating the distribution of blood. Its power in health is exemplified by the common acts of blushing with shame, and of watering of the mouth when victuals are presented to a hungry man. [In disease, its power is illus- trated by the fact, so well urged by Macartnej-, that if " irritation of the nervous system " be prevented by certain remedies whose sedative action on that system is matter of experience, inflammation after injuries will either be absent altogether, or very much mitigated. The practical value of correct pathology is so great that it may be well to enlarge on this point. It is proved both by physiological experiment and clinical obsyvation, that as with the vascu- lar supply, so with the nerves, they not only influence local changes, but are themselves in- fluenced thereby. Changes in a nerve may pro- duce great changes in the part to which the nerve is distributed ; and, conversely, as Claude Ber- nard says, " the properties of ;i nerve are greatlv modified bj' the state of the .org;m in which I't terminates. If the sensibility of a cutaneous nerve be ascertained in the healthy state, it will ho fi)und that after scalding or blistering the parts to which its ramifications are distributed, a con- siderable increase of its cxcitabilitj'- lias taken place ; a galvanic current, which is scarcely felt on the opposite side, provokes instant pain "when applied to the nervous trunk which spreads to the injured region."