^83 MAMMA, DISEASES OF. met with 5n the breast. M. Velpeau lias seen them disseminated, to the number of eight or ten, of the size of a nut, formed by the lobules of the gland, softened in the centre, and infiltrated with tuber- culous matter, and mi.xed here and there with se- rous fiocculent pus. M. Nelaton saw Gerdy extir- pate half a dozen tumors of this nature, similar to the tubercles found in the brain of young children.] The breast is also liable to adipose tumours, and to cartilaginous and bony transformations, as well as to some other diseases described in the articles Cancer, Fungus H^matodes, and Tumor, [Enchondromatous Tumors, with or without par- tial ossification, have been described by various writers, including Berard, Sir A. Cooper, and MUller. The ossified tumors are characterized by a hard uneven surface, often studded with sharp an- gular points; they make very slow progress, and after having attained a certain size remain stationary. In the case related by Sir A. Cooper, the tumor was the source of pain, increasing at the menstrual period. Extirpation affords the sole means of relief.] In the Miscellanea Natures Citriosormn (Dec. ii. An. vi.) is a case of complete o^sitication of both mammae. It occurred in a nun, who suffered much from distressing dyspnoea. The mammae were as hard as stone, and the skin stretched over them like hoops round a barrel. After death the niammse were found transformed into hemispheres of bone, so hard as completely to resist the scalpel Mamma, Amputation op, or Extirpation of. Many swellings and indurations of the breast it would be highly injudicious and unnecessary to extirpate, because they generally admit of being dispersed. Such are many tumors, which are called Scrofulous, from their affecting patients of this peculiar constitution, cases in which the trial of iodine internally and externally may very pro- perly be made. (See loniNB.) Such are nearly all those indurations which remain after a sudden and general inflammatory enlargement of the mam- ma ; such are most other tumors, which acquire their full size in a few days, attended with pain, red- ness, &c. ; and of this kind also are the hardnesses in the breast occasioned by mammary abscess. In the removal of all malignant or cancerous tumors, their nature makes it necessnry to ob- serve one important caution in the operation—viz., not to rest satisfied with cutting away the tumors just at their circumference, but to take away also a considerable portion of the substance in which they lie, and with which they are surrounded. In cutting out a cancerous breast, if the operator were to be content with merely dissecting out the disease, just where his eyes and fingers might equally lead him to suppose its boundary to be situated, there would still be left behind white diseased bands, which radiate from the tumor into the surrounding fat, and which would inevitably occasion a relapse. In a vast proportion of the cases also, in which cancer of the breast unfor- tunately recurs after the operation, it is found that the skin is the part in which the disease makes its reappearance : hence the great pru- dence of taking away a good deal of it in every case suspected to be a truly scirrhous or cancerous disease. This may also be done so as not to pre- vent the important objects of uniting the wound hy the first mtention, and covering the whole of its surface with sound integuments. So frequently does cancer recur in the nipple, whenever it does recur anywhere, that many experienced operators always make a point of removing this part in every instance in which it is judged ex- pedient to take away any portion of the skin at all. The surgeon, indeed, would be inexcusable, were he to neglect to take away such portion of the integuments covering scirrhous tumors as is evidently affected, appearing to be discoloured, puckered, and closely attached to the diseased lump beneath. Nor should any fibres of the pectoral muscle at all diseased be ever left behind. But, strongly as one would urge the prudence the necessity, of making a free removal of the skin covering, and of the parts surrounding, every cancerous or malignant tumor, the same plan may certainly be regarded as unnecessary, and, therefore, rashly severe in most operations for the removal of simple, fatty, fibrous, or encysted tumors, to which the breast, and almost every other part of the body, is liable. However, even in the latter cases, when the swelling is very large, it is better to take away an elliptical portion of skin ; for otherwise, after the excision of the tumor, there would be a redun- dance of integuments, the cavity of which would only serve for the lodgment of matter. The loose superfluous skin also would lie in folds, and not apply itself evenly to the parts beneath, so as to unite favorably by the first intention : nor could the line of the cicatrix itself be arranged with such nice evenness as it might have been, if a part of the redundant skin had been taken away at the time of operating. The best method of removing a diseased breast is as follows : The patient, previously rendered in- sensible byanana23theticagent,is sometimes placed in a sitting posture, well supported by pillows and assistants ; but the operator will find it equally convenient, if not more so, to remove the tumor while his patient is in a recumbent position ; and this posture is best whenever the operation is likely to be long, or much blood to be lost, which circumstances are very apt to bring on faintin<r The head is to be sufficiently elevated, and the patient placed in such a position, that the side of the tumor may be turned towards the operator, the corresponding arm being carried slightly upwards and backwards,and a large cloth passed across the chest so as to protect the bed or couch and the patient's clothes from any blood which may be spilt. If the patient be in a sitting posture, an assistant should hold the arm back, by which means the fibres of the great pectoral muscle will be kept on the stretch, the most favourable state for the dissection of the tumor off its surface. When the tumor is not large, and only a sim- ple sarcoma, free froiii malignancy, it will be quite unnecessary to remove any of the skin; and of course this need only bo divided by one incision of a length proportionate to the tumor. ' The direction of the incision is various with different practitioners ; some making it perpendi- cular, some obliquely downwards and forwards and others transverse. In general, the shape of the tumor must determine which is the best. It has been said, that when the incision follows the last direction, it heals more expeditiouslj', because the skin is more extensible from above downward than laterally, particularly towards the sternum and consequently allows the ijides of the wound