the operation the limb must be retained in a completely immovable position, and such general and local measures employed as tend to prevent sup- purative inflammation. (See Bulletin de T/iera- peutique, 1842, anAAnnales de Chirurgie, 1843, and also Nclalun, Path. C/iir. t. ii. p. 178.) The testimony of Bonnet, Velpeau, Jobert, Dieulafoj-, Leriche, Be'rnrd, and other French sur- geons in favour of this mode of treatment, is of the greatest value, for it shows a very large amount of success. In this country this practice has not had a fair trial, for surgeons were afraid of practising it, from the fear of throwing an irritating fluid into a large joint, and of ankylosis taking place even in case of success. Now both of these dangers are imaginary. There is no previous incision made, but a simple puncture. Up to the year 1853 there were more than one hundred cases related by Berard, Jobert, Malgaigne, and other French sur- geons, in which these joints were treated by the iodine injection, and none of the patients had any unfavourable symptom. The swelling, with slight , redness, which appears after the operation, only shows that a natural process is going on, such as takes place in a hydrocele, and is resolved without the application of leeches, &c. As to the danger of ankylosis, it is equally imaginarv. Velpeau bas seen patients long after the operadon, and in all the movements of the joints were preserved. It is, in fact, in these cases,"as in hvdrocele, — the cure can be effected without obliteration of the serous sac; or if adhesions do take place, they yield after a time, and the function of the joint is restored. If the iodine injection fails, it will not prevent the employment of other accessory means of cure. {Ranlcinc/'s Abstract, v. 17.) Chelius says that the consequence of the injec- tion is an acute inflammation, the running on of which to suppuration must be carefully prevented In very great and painful swellings of the joint from the excessive collection of fluid, it may be necessary to discbarge part of the fluid by puncture 80 as to lessen the symptoms. In regard to the strength of the iodine injection of Bonnet which Chelius quotes (half a drachm of iodine and one drachm of iodide of potassium in four ounces of water), Mr. South remarks that if there be no mistake in the proportions it must be highly caustic, and such as no English surgeon would, he thinks, dare to throw into a joint, though a French surgeon might. {Op. cit. vol. i. p. 463.) Expe- rience has proved, however, that no bad results follow from this mode of practice, notwithstanding the doubts and fears of many English surgeons. Mr. Barwell thus expresses himself on the use of iodine as an injection fluid : — " This material is valuable, inasmuch as it does not tend to produce suppuration ; and although several cases have oc- curred in which an undesirable amount of inflam- mation has followed, I have not found any reported cases whose results were disastrous, although both m England and on the continent its employment has become pretty general. The mixture com- a half to two drachms of the tincture of iodine with an ounce of water." {Dis. ofJ„in,s, p. 200 )' Whilst Mr. Barlow acknowledges this to be the most powerful means at our disposal for the reduc- tion o hydrarthrosis, he says it does not always cure the complaint._ It will almost invariably greatly dimmish the amount of fluid in the joint • JOINTS, DISEASES OF. joj but its effect upon the hypertrophied synovial fringes is less marked. On the other hand, many surgeons condemn the proceeding, who have not had any experience of its application. Professor Pinie, of Aberdeen observes that, " it is quite certain, however, that other surgeons have seen cases in which this treat- ment gave rise to inflammation, which endangered both life and limb, and the dread of uncontrollable inflammation has hitherto prevented surgeons in these islands from venturing on this proceeding — a proceeding which, apait altogether from the question of whether or not it be justifiable on account of the danger of a wound of a joint, is really not necessarj-, as these cases always get well, unless there be disorganisation of the synovial membrane." (See Prin. and Pract. of Surgery, ed. 2, p. 417.) Professor Miller, of Edinburgh, thinks the practice much more likely to effect dis- organisation of a joint than its cure. Mr. Erichsen approves of this mode of treatment, and considers that, when other means fail, we have a very powerful means of cure at our command in the injection of the joint with tincture of iodine. He treated a case, in a man aged 61, of hydrar- throsis of the knee, which had resisted other modes of treatment, by the injection plan with complete success; some slight inflammation was perceived, which was carefully watched, and when the patient left the hospital he had complete power of the joint, although it felt weak. (See TIlb Lancet, vol. i. 18,58, p. 189.) On this mode of treatment Mr. Fergusson thus expresses himself: "In ac- cordance with modem fashion iodine has been injected in some of these cases by Bonnet, Velpeau, Jobert, and others. I have no personal experience in such practice; but, judging from the observations of Dr. Macdonnell of Montreal, lately published in connection with some cases of the kind occurring in his own practice, the treatment is probably worth greater attention than it has had in this country." (See Pract. Surgery, ed. 4, p. 428.) The success which has been attained by Dr. Macdonnell in curing hydrarthrosis of the knee- joint by puncture and inji ction of iodine, has to some extent led to its adoption in this country, and ni Canada and the United States. The almost universal condemnation of this method of treatment by many British writers on surgery, has, he snys done much to retard, if not to prevent, its adoption by their countrymen. He was not deterred by the prohibition of authors, who had no personal experience of the treatment they condemned, in applying it to cases of hydrarthrosis which had resisted all other plans of treatment. In 1853 he published the details of seven cases, all treated suc- cessfully, and followed by a complete cure, without any untoward complication, even such as ankylosis. These cases were witnessed by his medical bre- thren. It is quite true that many surgeons have objected to this plan of treatment under an erro- neous idea of the disease for which it is recom- mended, and also of the results that are expected to be derived from it. Thus some surgeons have confounded the affection under consideration with a white swelling, anil have objected to the treat- ment because it did not cure the latter. " Now I wish it to be distinctly understood," Macdonnell observes, " that it is to pure uncompilicalcd chronic hydrops of the knee-joint that ray suggestions as yet apply ; for I have not employed the treatment