872 UTERUS, INVERSION OF. It produces an extromelj' complete and extensive diliitation of the cervix, and in time also increased expulsive action. If tliis last occur before the cervix has regained its tone, either hour-glass con- traction or inversion will oconr." Lazzati and others have distinctly observed that the uterus was inert at the time of inversion. Many histories show tliat inversion followed im- mediately upon very rapid labours; in which it is probable that the uterus is more or less a passive body, expulsion being effected by bearing-down efforts. Ilasmorrbage, by inducing relaxation, or uterine paralysis, is a predisposing cause. Sir James Simpson thinks there is often some laceration of the cervix. Monteggia {Idituzivni Chirurgicke) says he has known an inversion take place, in consequence of a laceration of the cervix caused by forced labour. Mr. Windsor believes that, when the uterus and vagina are in a relaxed state, and the female lias been -sulject to prolapsus uteri, there is a greater disposition to the occurrence of inversion «it the time ef hibonr, than when such condilion of the parts 'does no^C exist. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. X. p. 3G'0.) JDelivery in the upright posture has been a not infrequent •conditioii. Inversion has happened ■tifter delivery 'by -erE^t and the forceps. Dr. Woodson rt?late3 a 'case where inversion took iplace after ftbortion at four months. Inversion 'ha-s ^been ^aid to have occurred seve- Ta'l days alfter delivery, Ane, Baudelocque, and -Dubois cite cases. Sorae, at least, are open to the 'doubt that the inversiisn had occurred soon after Habour, but had ©scaped ^detection till later. It ig, ihovvever, -eertain that the uterus may be in»eitted'bj'-a proeess of spontaneous active self-in- icersion. The^first distinct indication of the mode in which this is effected is given by John Hunter. In the museum -of the College of Surgeons, No. •2654 (-See ■Pat/iologiaai Catalogue), is a specimen of an inverted uterus. The accident occurred in- dependently of pregBancy. A polypus had been attached to'the fundus. A ligature had been ap- plied n-ear the -attathment. The tumor had eloughed off just befflre the patient died. Plunter described tihe case under the title of " Intussuscep- tion," to wliicii he likens inversion. "The uterus,"' he says, "is liable to inversion from two causes', one is immediately after labour, when it is so large as to admit of its containing itself, and which is .commonly from an imprudent mode in disengaging a,iid bringing away the placenta, when that substance has been attached to the fundus of the uterus. The second is somewhat similar, namely, the expulsion of an adventitious body, although of another kind, and at a very different period in the state of this viscus. It begins to take place when this viscus is small, but becoming gradually large enough (by the very disease that produces it) to admit of an inversi(m; so that in the first cause the uterus is first large, so as to admit of an inversion, and by its contraction to its natural state, it, as it were, fixes it. This is done immediately, because its cause is immediate, for this enlarged state of the parts is of short duration; but the second is gradual, because it is to produce itself, by the very action of the uterus in expel- ling an unnatuml body (•inch as a polypus). The polypus as it grows will gradually fill the cavity of the uterus, and the uterus will bo constantly en- deavouring to remove it. The action of the utenis will be downwards, and as the bodv of the uterus acts on this substance, it will be gradually squeezed down towards the os tinea:, and the fun- dus will, of course, be gradually drawn into its own cavity, and as the polypus is squeezed down so will the fundus follow. When the whole of the polypus has got into the vagina, if it has no length of neck, then will the fundus uteri be as low down as the OS tincte, the upper half of the uterus j^^t filling the lower half; but I conceive it does not stop here. I conceive the contained or inverted part becomes an adventitious or extraneous body to the containing, and it continues its action to get rid of the inverted part, similar to an introsuscep- tion of an intestine." It is remarkable that in this case an introsusception of the small intestine co-existed. Dr. Radford recognised activity of the uterus as a factor. {Dublin Journ. of Med. Sciences, 1837.) The uterine pain, diminu:ion of bulk, firm, resist- ing fat, sudden formation and rapid protrusion observed in some cases, suggested to him "the de- duction that the body and fundus of the uterus are in a state of unnatural enecitemcnt and action," the 03 uteri being soft and yielding. Moser (Jahrlnich der GesohlecJitslcra7)kJieiten des Weibes, ]f!43) seems to agree with Radford. He says:—"There is a preponderating contraction of the fundus whilst the rest of the uterus is relaxed, in which case the fundus may descend into the body of the uterus." Hohl {LehrbucJi der Gehurtshulfe, 1862) ad- vances a similar doctrine. The necessary condition, he says, is contraction of the fundus. He cites two observations of hie own in which, after natural labour, pain suddenly occurring, inversion took place without dragging on the cord. The process is analogous to invagination of intestine, which occurs in consequence of greater contraction and activity of the upper portion of the intestine, so that it easily descends into the more relaxed por- tion below. But Hohl admits flaccidity as a cause. Thus he saw inversion take place after delivery by forceps of a woman dying of cholera. There was deep syncope; and the uterus was paralysed. In a most admirable arid complete monograph on the subject, Mr. Crosse {An Essay, Literary and Practical, on Inversio Uteri, J. G. Crosse, F.R.S., 1847) says the most powerfully predisposing con- dition to the commencement of inversion {deprcs- sio), and without which the greater degrees cannot transpire, is partial inertia. He also points out that one of the most constant conditions is attach- ment of the placenta to the fundus uteri. Then, again, the action of the uterus in increasing an in- version, when once this has commenced, has been admitted and indicated by very many authorities, but by none more pointedly than by Denman {Practice of Midwifery), who observes that " if a disposition to an inversion be first given by the force used in pulling the Amis, it may be completed by the action of the uterus." Crosse then states the modern doctrine in distinct terms:—" I cannot conceive that the organ itself has any power to commence the diqilaccmenl, and to cause simple depressio. But when a commencement has been made, an d the case goes on to iulrorersio, bringing the fundus within the grasp and inflcence of the uninverted bodv of the uterus, this organ will, by the natural powers called into action by us sciisi-