INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS, nearest the anterior edge of the wound, so as to fix the intestine anteriorly; and in a similar man ner the part nearest to the posterior edge was like- wise fixed. An incision of about an inch in length, vertically between the tr;insfixed points above al- luded to, was then made into the intestine." For the transverse incision (Amussat),tlie land marks are, the last rib, the crest of the ilium, and the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The incision should correspond to the middle third of the crest of the ilium, and to a line two fingers' breadth above this. It should be commenced, the patient lying on the opposite side, and slightly on his face, over the outer border of the erector spinas. and be carried outwards to the extent of from two to four inches, in proportion to the degree of obesity of the subject, dividing the la tissimusdorsi and external oblique, the former in the posterior third, the lat- ter in the anterior two-thirds, of the incision; the internal oblique and the posterior aponeurosis of the transverse, with a few of the fibres of the muscle itself; the outer edge of the sheath of the quadratus lumborum may be notched if necessary. If thought desirable, the deeper structures may be divided crucial!}-, and the operation be completed, as by the method of Callisen. At least two sutures should fasten the bowel to the wound before an opening be made into it; the number may be in- creased at a later period to four or six. Bauden's method. This surgeon prefers an oblique incision to either of the above, and ad- vises that it should be commenced one inch below the last rib, immediately external to the erector spincB muscle, and be carried downwards and out- wards, and terminated about one inch and a half external to the same, and near to the crest of the ilium. The loin having been opened by one of the above methods, the surgeon should carefully avoid mis- taking the kidney for hardened faeces. In conse- quence of the position of the liver, the right kid- ney will occupy a lower level than the left, and will therefore be more probably met with when the right loin is opened. Period for operation.—The symptoms of ob- struction having existed for many days, say from ten to twenty, without any amelioration from treat- ment, and the cause and seat of the lesion being tolerably evident, no advantage can accrue to the patient by delaj'. The operation itself is mode- rately easy of performance, and may be classified with those considered to be not dangerous to life. Lilire's Operation.—In the year 1710, Littre proposed to relieve obstruction of the lower part of the large intestine by opening the sigmoid flexure in the left iliac region; and at the present time surgeons occasionally resort to this method in preference to that performed in the loin. The groin having been opened, the sigmoid flexure must be brought to the surface, and be treated as stated under the head of Gastro-enterotomy. I he surgeon may, in some instances, prefer to at- tempt to reach the sigmoid flexure, or the crccum, It the right side be selected, behind the perito- neum; but failing in this, the general cnvitv of the belly must be opened. Littre's method should have the preference in infants, and in cases of tumour of the groin, inducing suspicion of the position either ot mgnioid flexure, or of cn:cum loaded with fieccs tomparatire merits of Uttre s ami AmnssaCs or tmscH s operations.—'Yh^ first objoct desired bv 101 resorting to either of the above operations is to prolong life ; and secondly, to place the artificial anus in such position as shall render existence to- lerable to the patient and his friends. Mr. Cffisar Hawkins {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxv.), in his analysis of the result of forty-four operations to relieve intestinal obstruction, whether performed thnuigh or external to the peritoneum, says; " There remain, then, only (for reasons assigned above) twelve cases of peritoneal section to com- pare with twenty-six cases of operation behind this membrane; and it is found that, of the former, seven died, and five recovered ; while of the lat- ter only ten died, and sixteen recovered. The right colon and cajcum were opened through the peritoneum in four cases, all of which died; and au artificial anus was made in the right colon be- hind the peritoneum in six cases, of which two died, and four recovered. As far as these num- bers go, the preference on the right side is un- questionably due to the lumbar operation! The left colon has been opened through the perito- neum in eight cases, of which there died three, and five recovered; and of twenty cases of lumbar operation on the left colon nine died, and eleven recovered. While, then, a comparison of the whole number of operations, and also of those on the right side alone, is in favour of the operation external to the peritoneum, the comparison of the two methods of procedure on the left side is fa- vourable to the peritoneal section, so far as so small a number as eight cases of the one, compared with twenty of the other method, can be con- sidered of value." Mr. Luke iMed. Chir. Trans. vol. xxxiv. p. 274) discusses the merits of the two operations, and concludes by saying: "It (Littre's method) affords facilities for modifying the treatment, as may be advisable, after immediate examination of the cause of obstruction, either by opening the intestine when incapable of relief by other means, or by dividing or removing any exist- ing cause of constriction or strangulation. It en- ables the surgeon to extend his search within a limited range when his diagnosis of the seat of obstruction has been proved to be incorrect. When requisite and proper, it enables him to open the colon close to the seat of obstruction, and thus preserve to Uie patient, for the performance of its proper fimctions, the utmost extent of intestinal canal of which the case is susceptible; and it eventually secures to hiui those facilities for attending to hia own comfort which appear almost a necessary con- dition to make life endurable under such drcuni- stances." A case recorded by Mr. Hilton {Guy-s Hospital Reports., vol. viii. p. 479) shows the desirability of opening the bowel near to the seat of constriction. " Itsometinics happened that feculent matter passed into the ascending and transverse colon bevond the artificial opening; tliis occurrence alwavs pro- duced some slight distress by its distension, and led to a rumbling noise in the abdomen, which terminated in a retrograde action of the largo bowel, expulsion of its contents through the arti- ficial anus, and immediate relief." Notwithstanding the evidence furnished by sta- tistics, which is in favour of Littre's operation on the left side, and the preference, for reasons as- signed, givrn by Mr. Luke to gastro entevotoiny, experience of abdominal surgery does not wairnnt a section of the peritoneum when such can be