712 TETANUS died. (See Mem. de Chir. Militaire, t. iiL p. 207.) This, however, could only be an accidental com- plication, and not a cause. In several cases. Dr. M'Arthur found the intestines much inflamed; and in two of them a yellow waxy fluid, of a peculiar offensive smell, covered their internal surface; but, whether tlie inflammation was pri- mary, or only a consequence of the pressure of the abdominal muscles, which contract so violently in this disease, he is unable to decide. (See Med. Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 475, and Rces's Cyclo- pcedia, art. Telanus.) [Mr. Lockhart Clarke detected definite struc- tural changes in the spinal cord. Here and there promiscuously, in the white substance as well as in the giey, but more especially in the latter, were irregular streaks and masses of altered tissue, varying from a state of slight softening to one of complete fluidity, the fluid being formed of fine granules and of the de'bris of the blood-vessels and nerve-tissues once occupying the parts. This condition is not essential to this disease, as it is found in cases of ordinary paralvsis. {Pathology of Tetanus {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. 48).] Dr. Lionel Chalmers, of Cbarleston, South Carolina, states, that when the disease forms very quicklj' and invades the unfortunate persons with the whole train of its mischievous symptoms, in a few hours, the danger is proportioned to the rapidity of the attack, and th.it the patients thus seized generally die in 24, 36, or 48 hours, and very rarely survive the third day. But when the disease is less acute, few are lost after the ninth or eleventh. (See Med. Ohs. and Inq., vol. i. p. 92, .03.) [See Statistics of Tetanus, Gny's Hasp. Rep., series iii. vol. iii. p. 69.] It is the common belief that death takes place from as- phyxia. From the valuable report of Sir James McGrigor, it appears that several hundred cases of tetanus occurred in our army during the campaigns in Spain and Portugal. The disease was observed to come on at uncertain periods after the receipt of the local injury; but it ter- minated on the second, third, and fourth days, and even as late as the seventeenth and twentietii days; though it was usually not protracted beyond the eighth. {Med. Chir. Trans., vol. vii. p. 353.) I had a patient, however, who lingered in the military hospital at Oudenbosch five weeks, with chronic tetanus, before he died. This happened in the year 1814, soon after the assault on Bergen- op-Zoom, where the patient had been wounded, and sult'ered amputation of the thigh. [The dura- ti<m of the disease is generally very short ; of 327 cases 183 were fatal within 5 days, 133 within 22 days, and 11 above 22 days. See Statistics, Hosp. Rep., op. cit. p. 76.] Altiiough tetanus is a disease which has been observed in almost all parts of the world, ex- perience proves that its frequency is much the greatest in warm climates, and especially in the hot seasons of those climates. [See statistics on sex, age, constitution, climate, season of the year, at- mospheric condition, as influencing tlie disease, Guy's Hosp. Rep,, op. cit. p. 25 el seq.'] It is also more common in marshy situations, and countries bordering upon the sen, than in places wiiich are very dry, elevated, and at a distance from the sea- coast. Every class of individuals is exposed to Its attacks; but infants a few days alter tiicir birth, and middle-aged persons, are said to be oftener affected than older subjects, or others in the youthful period of life. The male sex more frequently suffer than the female; and the robust and vigorous more frequently than the weak. According to Dr. CuUen and other medical writers, the causes of tetanus are cold and mois- ture, applied to the body while it is very warm and especially the sudden vicissitudes of heat and cold. Or the disease is produced by punctures, lacerations, or other injuries. CuUen admits, however, that there are probably some other causes, which are not distinctly known. Baron Larrey observes that gunshot wounds in the course of the nerves, and injuries of the joints, often produced tetanus in the climate of Egypt, particularly when the weather or temperature passed from one extreme to the other, in damp situations, and in those which were adjacent to the Nile or the sea. What he terms dry and irritable temperaments were the most subject to the disorder, the event of which was found to be almost always fatal. {Larrey, Op, et loc. cit.) Traumatic tetanus is remarked to proceed oftener from wounds of the extremities, and es- pecially the fingers and toes, than from similar in- juries of the trunk, head, and neck. Sometimes it originates at the moment of the accident; as in the instance mentioned by the late Professor Robisoii of Edinburgh; but, in general, it does not come on till several days afterwards, sometimes not till the wound is nearly or perfectly healed, and free from all pain and uneasiness. It would seem that a wound would sometimes not have the effect of exciting the disorder, if the patient carefully- avoided sudden exposure to cold. In 1833 I at- tended a gentleman who had met with a lacerated wound of the scalp by being thrown from his horse. From this accident he was recovering in the most favourable manner; but, on going out into the cold air, at the end of a fortnight, when the wound was nearly healed, he was at- tacked with trismus, which soon assumed the form of universal tetanus, and he died in six or seven days after the commencement of the dis- order. Dr. Murray relates a case in which a mid- shipman trod on a rusty nail one evening at nine o'clock, and after exposing himself to the cold night air in keeping watch, had tetanic symptoms the followinff morning at eight. (See Loud. AM. Gaz. for 1832-33, p. 623.) Tetanus occurs in all conditions of wounds ; in some of a health)', and others of an ill-conditioned appearance; sometimes, as I have just given an instance of, when they are almost, or even entirely healed. In one case, mentioned by Dr. liennen, cicatrisation was com- pleted on the same day that life terminated. It occurs too whether the wound be large or small. Dr. Elliotson had a case, as severe as anj' he ever saw, where there had been merely a contusion of the thumb. An example is given in the Trans, of the iMid. Med. SocieJy, in which the disease fol- lowed a burn, at a time when there was merely a dry scab on the leg; nay, as Dr. Eiliotson ob- serves, the disease has sometimes declined and ceased, while the wound every day grew worse and worse. Larrey, however, lays considerable stress on the condition of the wound, which is generally either dry, or covered with a thin serous exudation. Dr. Rush also speaks of an