Again, if there be practitioners who play the quack by using a multitude of useless or mischievous remedies, there are others who play the qunck by an affected purism, by pretending to use " natural " means only, and to reject "drugs; " as if it were not " natural" for a civilised man to use drugs, or as if leeches, opium, iron, quinine, mercurj', and iodide of potass in appropriate cases could not re- move diseased conditions which go on unchecked even under rest and the best devised diet. The young practitioner should look upon this Nature- worship as a kind of quackish foppery, and will, after experience, agree with the Son of Sirach that " the Lord hath created medicines, and he that is wise will not despise them." (Ecclesias iicus, chap, xxxviii. v. 4.) 3. Curative Treatment.—Before entering on this we must warn the young practitioner to avoid that tendency which the common structure of language promotes, to consider inflammation, or other dis- ease, as something apart from the individual patient in whom it occurs, and to allow himself to use violent remedies against a supposed sthenic "condition," whilst after all these remedies have to be borne by a human being, and per- haps a very feeble one. I, wlio caution others, cannot avoid the conventional practice of speaking of inflammation as a separate entit}'— for instance, when I say that "chronic inflamma- tion causes induration," &c. The proper correc- tion for these infirmities of thought and speech is found in the determination to think of the patient —the living soul and body—as the thing to be treated, and not the disease. It will be readily seen that it would be impos sible here to give the details of the treatment of the numerous varieties of inflammation. We can only describe the remedies generally, and leave their special application to the Articles which treat of the several varieties, although their proper com- binations can only be learned thoroughly at the bedside. The remedies for inflammation generally are divided into those which (1) diminish the quantity or the velocity of the blood or its heat; (2) purify it by acting on the excretory organs; (3) allay nervous irritation; (4) support the strength; (5) act specifically in a way we cannot explain ; (C) counter-irritants and neurotics. Amongst the first order we must first mention that most venerable remedy Woorf-/c«%, which the saintly Willis conceived to be taught by Nature and sanctioned by the divine law. We have al- ready shown how Hippocrates bled in pleurisy moderately, and how Galen, G50 years later, bled m ophthalmia freely. Celsus [circ. A. C. 10) recommends bleeding in violent fevers and acute painful diseases generally ; he sanctions it even in some doubtfurcases, on tlie plea " anceps reiiic- <him melius fjuam nullum." {Da McdicinA, lib. ii.) Yet he rebukes a tendency which seems to have existed in that day to bleed in all diseases, and even to bleed patients who had no blood to spare. The modern practice of bleeding was introduced by Jtotalli, who visited England in Queen Elizabeth's reign ; and whose practice was closely followed by Sydenham in the next century, Sydenham bled in acute fevers, " to relieve the patient from the INFLAMMATION. p55j distress occasioned by violent commotion of the blood." He bled also in the plague. In his treat- ment of pleurisy (except that which might come on during a malignant fever) bleeding, twice or thrice repeated, is his sheet anchor, and he observes " that a conSrmed pleurisy in an adult subject is rarely- cured with the loss of less than forty ounces of blood." His object is " to repress the inflammation of the blood, and divert its inflamed particles from the lining membrane of the ribs." (St/d. Sos. ed. vol. i. p. 247.) He bled in confluent small-pox, rheumatism (because of the buffy coat), bronchitis, quinsy, hysteria, gonorrhoea, ophthalmia, and, in fact, bled moderately at the onset of most diseases, especially if of a feverish or inflammatory kind. Willis speaks of the custom of Rusticks and per- sons of full habit to be bled in the spring and fall, although he says that some are so obsti- nate against it that they refuse to be bled except under the greatest necessit)-. Bleeding, he says, lessens the quantity and alters the quality of the blood, by depriving it of excess of sulphur and fixed salt {^sulphur in Willis's nomenclature = carbon, and is that part which combines with the "nitrous spirit" of the air to create heat). But bleeding is not proper in malignant fevers, when the texture of the blood is loosened. It is good generall}' in a hot and dr)', bad in a cold and moist tempera- ment. It is good in almost all fevers and inflam- mations. In pleurisy blood should be drawn freely, in order " to rescind the nourishments of the disease, and drink up the matter" which is the cause of it. A full bleeding once, he says, is better than small bleedings repeated. {Pharm. Hal. pt. ii.) Pitcairn bled freely to lessen the heat of the blood and its viscidity, whether arising from acid or any other cause of coagulation. He prescribes such method of bleeding on mathematical princi- ples as shall cause revulsion; that is, he directed it on the left arm for an inflammation on the right side, and so on. He shows how, on mathematical principles, and in words which clearly fore- shadowed the doctrine of the conversion of mo- tion into heat, bleeding must lessen the attrition of the blood, and the heat caused by the heart's impulse on blood which cannot move freelv. He orders immediate and full bleeding in pleurisy. Pitcairn was a scholar, poet, cavalier, and man of honour ; his reasoning is irresistible, though the assumptions on which it is founded have been abolished by the progress of physiology. But it IS distressing to find a man of such clear intellect ordering horse-dung and pigs-dung as remedies for sick men; and this nasty custom, which was pre- valent at that day, makes us doubt whether ho was capable of accurate clinical observation. We need not go through the list of the hydraulic practitioners of the eighteenth century, who saw in the animal economy not a living whole, but a collection ol' pipes liable to obstruction, and who, as Bordeu observed, thought every disease must bo cured, if the circulation were freed and the vessels unloaded by depletion. "On a saigne' sans measure, on a purge; sans regies," says F. Qiiesnay {Traitl dc.s Ficrre.i, Paris, 1753), through the neglect of the study of natural processes and the prevalence of a dry, hard, matlipiuatico-mechanical pathology. Frederick llofl'niann was more conservativo • he clearly and fully enumerates the diseases in which bleeding is pernicious, and shows how it promotes