122 in any other joint; and though I do not believe that injection of iodine would do any harm to a joint already destroyed by ulceration, yet I wish the point to be clearly understood, that it is not in such affections I recommend it." {See Mont,-eal Med. Chron. vol. v. pp. 6 and 242.) The object of the operation is not to produce an acute arthritis, as Bonnet endeavoured to do, but a modification of diseased secreting action, as m hydrocele. Mac- Sell inTects only two drachms of strong tmcture oHod ne^^lxed wiih an equal quantity of lukewarm water and this is allowed to remain, first drawing Tff th; dropsical fluid. The limb is then kept per- fectly motionless on a straight splmt, and tli( patient is kept on a cooling diet. In the employ- ment of this mode of practice surgeons will do well to remember the following rules laid down by Macdonnell :—" 1st. The necessity of a careful diagnosis. It is in chronic hydrarthrosis alone that I recommend iodine injections. 2nd. I'unc ture the sac above the level of the patella and on the front of the femur, having first made the tumour tense by a bandage carried round its l^/ye; P">^^°^- 3rd. Inject two drachms of tincture of iodine with two drachms of lukewarm water 4th. Having in- Sed that amount of the fluid, manipulate the XBO as to bring all its surface into contact with ■ihe fluid, which it then to be allowed to remain ^th Close the external wound, and surround the ^ with a wet bandage, which should be carried Upwards from the ankle to above the knee 6th Keep the limb in a straight position on a padded splint. 7th. Do not allow any motion to take place for at least a week after the operation 8th When the patient is allowed to leave his bed, take off the wet bandage, and surround the jomt with a ^'tvera^'othTCuccessful cases have occurred in Macdonnell's practice since his memoir appeared. After the cure of hydrarthrosis, -l>-te^«^ means obtained, some surgeons have observed a stiffness of the joint, more or less great, with difti- cdty 0 movement. To obviate this, various means have been recommended, and, among others, frictions, douches, and baths.] JOINTS, DISEASES OF. may be absorbed, he says, and the case do very well, assisting this process by light compresses of lint steeped in cold water. We have already re- ferred to the occurrence of this accident, when considering loose cartilages in joints, and noticed a case of Mr. Colles' wherein a superficial vessel was wounded on removing a loose body, which ended in a good recovery,] Mr. Hey-relates a case in which the knee-joint was wounded, and blood insinuated itself into the capsular ligament; though the occurrence could not be hindered, yet no harm resulted from the extravasation, which was absorbed witliout having created the smallest inconvenience. {Prad. Obs. in Surgery, p. 354.) . [HEemorrhage is more hable to occur m wounds of the elbow, knee, and ankle, than in those of any other articulation, because of the presence of a con- siderable number of arterial vessels. The danger of this complication is in the event of ^the blood not becoming absorbed; it gives rise, as Boyer and Richet have noticed, to the most dangerous form of destructive inflammation, which soon destroys the joint.] Collections of Blood in Joinis.-Most systematic writers speak of this affection, though it must be m omm n. Tumours about the joints, composed nf hZo^ and set down in numerous surgical works t extra-atiwithin the capsular ligament, are int^a large articulation, howevel^ no man wodd be -tifiel in making an opening for >ts ^ischa ge^ No bad symptoms are likely to insult from ts m«e presence, and the absorbents will, m the^" J '^J^'' it away. If an incision were made mto the joint he coagulated state of the ^^^'■^'^.^^^S^^,,^^ would not allow such blood to be easily d'Bc' a ged I'he best plan is to apply discut.ent -med e . a the lotion of vinegar, spirits of ^^"^ an^ "u^ of ammonia, for a week or two, and atterwa friction with camphorated Imiments may ^'le-Colles recommends for effusion of blood in-0 the joint, when the wound is « "^'l' g^f compression with the hand, to get out as m ch as posBMe without giving pain, and ^f'^'^f^^ closing the wound. When it occurs from a con^ tusion, without any penetrating wound, the Diooa r^WAnfe—The term white swelling was at one time indiscriminately applied to a number of different affections of the joints, in which some or all of the structures were involved m disease. This led to much confusion and embariassment, one disease was confounded with another, and at last surgeons were content to apply the term to two forms of white swelling, namely, the rheumattc and scrofvlous. These are worthy of consideration under another name. And, with a view of bring- ing the subject up to a level with the science and pathology of the diseases of joints as understood at the present daj', we purpose embodying all the destructive diseases of joints- under the head ot Arthritis. Of this we shall firstly describe the simple, acute, and chronic forms; and after entering into their pathology, and mto the nature of the changes which cartilage undergoes we shall describe Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis, and Chronic Strumous Arthritis. The last will include the affection white swelling, properly so called, which is now recognised as a scrofulous disease of the ioints. Although some difference of opmion still exists among modern surgeons as to the precise classification of diseases of joints, yet the nia- iority agree in the general principles of classifi- cation, which to some extent are founded upon the admirable labours and researches of Sir Benjamin Brodie. , , , • i. In the details of the arrangement of the subject of arthritis in its different forms, we follow that laid down by Mr. Erichsen, and we do this the more willingly, as it is the one now adopted in the teachings of most of the great schools of surgery. (See Science and Art of Surgenj, ed. 3, 1801.) _ By Arihrilis in its simple form is meant an in- flammatory disease of an acute or chronic kind .fleeting the whole or greater part of the structures that enter into the formation of a joint. Ihis affection may commence in the synovial and then spread to the other articular tissues a^ has been previously mentioned; or .t may begin in the cartilages or bones. . „n Diseased action is very seldom primarily set up in the ligaments of the joints; although these struc- tures commonly become elongated, softened, and