LITHOTOMY. the operation to the test of experience in Italy, has, after further trials of it, and the mature con- sideration of Scarpa's objection to it, candidly acknowledged its great disadvantages in com- parison with the lateral operation. (See Scarpa''s Opiiscoli ili Cliirurgia, vol. i. p. 100). Riberi also saw two children cut by Sanson at Paris ; one died a few days afterwards of peritonitis ; and the other had been given up before his departure from that city. {Ragguaglio di iredici Oistotomie, Torino, ] 822 ; and Scai-pa, sul Tuglio Retto- Vesicale, p. 5o.) [Facts such as those above mentioned caused recto-vesical lithotomy to be almost entirely aban- doned. Sanson's first method has no advocate among modern authorities; and, with respect to his second •plan, the only surgeon who has practised it at all recently is, we believe, the late Mr. Lloyd, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Mr. Lloyd's operation closely resembled Sanson's ; he commenced with the median incision through the perineum, sphincter ani, and lower extremity of the rectum ; he then entered the membranous part of the urethra, and passed his knife onwards into the bladder through the prostate ; but it is not clear whether he made a free incision of the gland, or a limited incision combined with dilatation. This recto-prostatic incision is no doubt a far less hazardous proceeding •. than Sanson's first method of cutting into the bladder behind the prostate, and it is also less likely to be followed by urinary fistula. It is, however, not entirely free from this latter risk ; for Mr. J.Lanehasrecentlyrecorded the caseof ayouth i aged 19, who had been operated upon by Mr. Lloyd two-and-a-half-years previously, in whom I there was a fistulous communication between the I rectum and the urethra just in front of the prostate. The patient was admitted into St. Mary's Hospital, and the fistulous opening was successfully closed by a plastic operation. (See Lancet, Feb. 6, 1864, p. 151.) Dr. Marion Sims has recorded a case in which, in 1859, Dr. Bauer, of New York, removed a stone by the recto-vesical incision be- hind the prostate, the wound being immediately closed by Dr. Sims with silver-wire sutures. The patient was placed on his left side, and Dr. Sims' speculum was introduced into the rectum, expos- ing the anterior wall of the rectum, just as it would the vagina in the female. A sound was passed into the bladder. Dr. Bauer entered the blade of a bistoury in the triangular space bounded by the prostate, the vesiculcB seminales, and the peritoneal reduplication. He passed the finger through this opening, felt the stone, and re- moved it with the forceps. Dr. vSims then closed the wound with silver sutures, introducing some five or six wires with the same facility as in the vagina. There was no leakage of urine. The wires were removed on the eighth day, and on the ninth the patient was able to ride out in a carriage. Dr. Sims remarks, that the facility and safety of executing recto-vesical lithotomy (except in children for anatomical reasons), and the success of closing at once the cut by the introduction of metallic sutures, ought to make this the operation in the male. (See Lancet, Jan. 23, 18C4, p. 110.) This is an immense improvement on the old recto- vesical operation, not only as regards the immediate closure of the wound, but in the dispensing alto- gether with the external incision of the perineum and sphincter. But while according to Dr. Sims 245 the fullest credit for his success in this instance' we are not prepared to endorse his opinion that the plan is one calculated for general adoption, or to admit that it possesses any independent merits of its own which should entitle it to preference over the lateral operation. On the other hand, it is open to some serious objections. In the first place, the attempt to close the wound by suture will be very apt to fail when undertaken by operators less practised in such matters than Dr. Sims, and the difficulty of inserting and fastening the sutures at such a depth within the rectum will deter many from attempting it. But, setting aside this, it must always be remembered that an incision of any extent into the base of the bladder behind the prostate cannot be made without risk of wounding the recto-vesical fold of the peritoneum— an accident which would be pretty surely followed by fatal results. The recto-vesical fold is not placed transversely between the points of entrance of the ureters, but projects forward between them so as to form a cul-de-sac, which varies in depth in dilTerent individuals. In an empty bladder this fold ap- proaches in the median line to the posterior border of the prostate, and in most persons the bladder must be greatly distended to carry the line of reflection backwards more than an inch from this point. ~ A longitudinal incision cannot there- fore be made to the extent of an inch in this part of the bladder without a risk of wounding the peritoneum ; and the risk is enhanced in cases where the bladder is irritable, and resents the presence of more than a small quantity of urine, or where it is thickened by chronic inflammation and hypertrophy of the muscular coat—conditions very likely to be present when a stone has been lodged for any length of time in the bladder. If there were any grounds for preferring lithotomy by the rectum to the lateral operation, it would pro- bably be better not to make the incision so far back, but to adopt the recto-prostatic in preference to the recto-vesical incision ; omitting, of course, all external incisions of the perineum, but exposing the interior of the rectum with a speculum, and closing the wound by suture immediately after the extraction of the stone. (See Remarks on Recto- vesical Litholomy hy J. R, Lane, Lancet, Feb. 6, 1864, p. ISL)] William Coulson. BiBLiooRAPHY.—Cctow, Dc re Medica, lib. v. ii. cap. 26. Marianus Sanctiis BarolHanus, De lapide Renum ; Ejusdem, De Lapide Vesicte perincis. extra- hendo Paris, 1540. Franco, Traits des Hernics, Lyon, 1561. Jlildanus, Gul. F(j6rici/«i, Litliotomia vesica;,' Bole, 162S ; and London, 1640. Simon de Ming'elou. zeaux, Remarques sur la Chirurgie de Cliauliac. Bordeaux, 1663. Drelincourt, La Legende du Gascon! Paris, 1665. Van Home, Opuscula. Fiernis, Trac- tntus de sect. Calculi, Nuremb. 1675 Mery F Observ. sur la Mauiere de tailler, &c., pratiqude' n-ir I'r&re Jacques, Paris, 1700. Tolet, Traitd de la Li- thotomie, 5th Edit. Paris, 1708. Ueiater'x Surg, part 2, Litbotomia Douglassiana, Amst. 1723. Chescl- rfcn, a Treatise on the High Operat. London, 1723 Douglass, F. Hist, of the Lat. Oper. 4to. London' 1726. Postscript to the Hist, of the Lateral Opcral ■ tlon, 1726; and Appendix to Hist, of the Lateral Operation, 1731. This work gives an erroneous ac- count of Cheseldcn's plan, as clearly proved by Dr. Yeltoti/'s paper in Med. Chir. Trnns. vol. xi., and quoted in the foregoing article. Heisler, De Appa- ratu Alto, Helmst. 1728. Colol, De I'Opdration do la Taille, Paris, 1727. Morand, Traitd de In Taille au haut Appareil, Paris, 1728; Ejusdem, Opuscules dc Chirurgie, Paris, 1768-72. Le Cat, Recueilde Pieces sur rOperation de la Taille, part i. Rouen, 1749.53 Come, Kecueil de Pieces, Stc, sur TOpdration de la