118 JOINTS, DISEASES OF. but firmly drawn over the body to be extracted, in one direction or the other out of their natural situation, the wound is completely covered when they are allowed to regain their normal position. Much of the success of this now called older method depends upon the dexterity of the ope- rator, in getting the loose body to suddenly slip out of the capsule through the incision he has made into it, together with the celerity with which the skin is drawn over the wound thus made.] I am ready to allow, with M. Brochier, that the danger attendant on wounds of the large joints has always been exaggerated, in consequence of ancient prejudices. {Desault's Jour. vol. ii.) But making every allowance for the influence of prejudice, a man must be very sceptical indeed who does not consider the wound of bo large a joint as the knee to be attended with real cause for the apprehension of danger. At the end of Ford's case {Med. Obs. and Inquiries, vol. v.), we read on the subject of cutting loose cartilages out of the knee:— The society have been informed of several cases in which the operation has been performed: some, like this, have healed up without any trouble; others liave been followed by violent inflammation, fever, and death itself." A case was lately pub- lished, in which the patient nearly lost his life from suppuration in the knee-joint after the operation. (See Kirbfs Cases, p. 75.) In the same work reference is also made to two other cases, which actually had a fatal termination (p. 82); and even in Mr. Kirby's own instance, the recovery was not effected without the entire loss of the motions of the knee. I remember an example, m which the patient died after the operation at St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital. [" The operation for their extraction produces no ill consequences at all in some instances, while in others the patient loses his life by it, and this even in cases which seemed m'ost favourable for it. Sometimes he dies from the great constitutional dis- turbance, suppuration, &c., and sometimes he re- covers with a stiff joint. The greatest attention to the after treatment will sometimes not prevent either of these results. I once saw a case where hiemorrhage took place from a superficial artery, and we were called to the patient, who, we were told, was dying of the bleeding; the hemorrhage occurred in two or three hours after our operation, and it not only bled externally, but into the joint; yet this man recovered perfectly." (See Lectures on Surgery by Abraham CoUes, vol. ii. P-155.} The older method, as it is called, is still practised by a few of our modern surgeons, and among others by Mr. Fergusson, who states that he has met with a variety of instances where it ^s not been advisable to resort to this practice. He Jias however, in various cases cut into the knee-joint in the way described, and with perfect success; and in these examples the absence of dangerous inflammation may be attributed, he observes, to the great care which was taken of each patient, both immediately before and after the operation All the cartilages in these cases have been small but he has seen much larger extracted wi h equal success, though he has known alarming inflamma- tion follow such operations. (See Fergusson s Practical Stir gery, ed. 4, p. 427.) To obviiite the dangers of a large external wound, and the risk of entrance of air into the cavity o\ the joint, Mr. Syme and M. Goyrand of Aix simultaneously proposed a method for the removal of these bodies from the knee by means of a subcu- taneous incision. The movable body is first fixed in the most convenient position, and steadily maintained there; a narrow knife is then passed under the skin, drawn a little to either side, and a wound is made in the capsule of the joint over the loose body, of sufficient size to allow of its being squeezed out of the articulation into the subcu- taneous areolar tissue : this concludes the opera- tion. The parts are then kept from moving in the least degree upon each other for a few minutes, until all oozing of blood has perfectly ceased, after which the integument is allowed to assume its natural position; the wound is closed, the leg care- fully fixed upon an easy splint, and all judicious means employed to avert inflammation. The car- tilage may be permitted to remain in its new position, or subsequently removed through an in- cision of proper size in the skin when the parts have all healed up. The advantages of this mode of operation are apparent enough; the articulation in fact is well opened, but it is beneath the skin, and without communication with the atmosphere. The puncture in the skin need not be larger than that made by an ordinary tenotomy knife, and invariably heals by adhesion. Experience has now on numerous occasions shown the advantages of the subcutaneous method over any other, and it has become generally adopted in surgical prac- tice. In but very few instances has this method of operation been followed by any inconvenience. We have practised it with success, and have seen it done by others with good results. If there be more than one movable body in the joint, they are all to be brought to the same part of the sac, if practicable. The subcutaneous operation is applicable to the elbow and shoulder, or any other joint, as well as to the knee. When occurring in the shoulder, as has happened in the practice of Schreger, it is recommended to press and fix the loose body above and before, or above and without, the long head of the biceps. The operation would be unsafe if performed in the arm- pit The arm must be pressed to the trunk; the skin is then as much as possible drawn inwards by an assistant, and the subcutaneous mcision is made into the capsule. At the elbow, the most convenient situation to press the loose body is above the inner condyle. Mr. Solly removed eight from the elbow at this situation, and he found it necessary to lay open the articulation till he exposed the loose cartilages, which were readily pressed out of the opening. The wound \vas healed in forty-eight hours, but the joint was kept at rest for a week; after this the patient could move his limb without pain, and made a good recovery. (See Mmithhi Jour. Med. ■sVcnce, May 1849.) It might be a question whether all the bodies should be removed out of the joint at one time, the knee especially; but we imagine this will depend very much upon the facility with which they may be encountered. It is perhaps best not to mani- pulate much after the first body is removed, for fear of exciting inflammation, and the operation might be renewed some days later. An operation of the older kind was performed thrice upon the same joint with perfect success 1 he case was published by Dr. Clarke. (See Med. Chtr. frans., vol. V. p. 67.)] Sir Benjamin Brodie also ex- tracted five loose cartilages by three different