I 950 VENEREAL times tn the introduction of immoderate quantities of it into the system. In general, however, his observations tend to condemn all violent saliva- tions. Tt is to be recollected that, in his day, nobody had a suspicion that trul}' syphilitic sores would in the end spontaneously heal; and he him- self had no dependence upon any medicine, except mercury, for the cure of any form of true venereal disease" But modern experience proves that the disorder seldom now presents itself in shapes so bad and intractable as formerly; that it is even capable of spontaneously ceasing; and that we hardly ever see cases in which it is requisite to give mercury, except in moderate quantities. In- deed, such is the change that many surgeons sus- pect that the very nature of the disease must have undergone a material alteration, or modification. In England, in my opinion, everything is to be re- ferred to the improved manner of employing mer- cury with a great deal of limitation and restriction; sometimes giving the preference to other means, and discarding it on account of its well-known per- nicious effects on particular casep, as, for instance, those in which the disease is phagedenic, or the bones are attacked witii necrosis. In other in- stances, where its use is preferred, many judicious surgeons give it only in moderate doses, and never push its exhibition till the constitution is so im- paired that horrible forms of disease ensue, which are the compound effect of mercury and syphilis together. I may say that mercury will generally expedite the cure of secondary symptoms ; but that, in some states of the constitution, even when true syphilitic affections are present, or when ulcers, which were originally of this nature, have assumed the phane- denic or sloughing character, and are accompanied by considerable inflammation, or much derange- ment of the health, mercury will prove the worst medicine that can be employed. When the eruption consists from the first of scaly copper-coloured blotches, presenting the characters of psoriasis or lepra, unattended with much febrile disturbance, but preceded b.y, or associated with, other venereal symptoms, the great majority of experienced surgeons prefer the use of mercur}', so as to bring the constitution moderately under its influence; but not with the view of exciting profuse and violent salivation, or producing sevtre derangement of the health. If either of'these states unexpectedly occur, mercury is to be immediately discontinued, and sarsaparilla, iodide of potassium, or such other medicines as circumstances dictate, prescribed. ■ Dr. Ci>lles admits that one and the same treat- ment will not prove equally successful in all the various foiras of syphilitic eruptions. The scaly eruption, the copper-coloured blotch, and the papular eruption seem to him to be those which yield most readily, and are most certainly and per- fectly cured by the action of mercury, given in the ordinary doses. " But the pustular eruption, and espec iaily when of larger size than ordinary, re- quires a very particular treatment. No fact can be more establii.hed than this—that if mercury be used too largely in cases of pustular eruption, the latter will quickly degenerate into venereal ec- thyma, or rupia, or spreading venereal ulcers. This form of eruption is one of those venereal affections which, while it is materially aggravated by large doses of mercury, can be certainly and DISEASE. safely cured by small doses. If we watch with care the progress of the pustular eruption, we must be struck with the strong disposition which it betrays of running into, or of being converted into, ulcers ; sometimes the pustules, spreading widely, and still keeping superficial, form ul- cers, covered with thin, soft, yellowish crusts ; while, in other cases, each pustole, without en- larging much, forms a deep ulcer covered with a brown scab, which is depressed below the level of the skin. Now, in either of these cases, mercurj-, administered in very minute doses, and with ex- treme caution, will effect a cure, and that too in a very short time." {On Veii.Dis. p. 178.) When the erupticm is papular, and has been preceded by a great deal of fever, I have often known blood-letting employed with advantage in the beginning, followed up by the compound calomel pill and saline antimonial medicines. Mr. Carmichael entirely differs from Dr. Colles, with regard to the treatment of this eruption, for he completely disapproves of the use of mercury in the commencement ; and he does not resort at that period even to small doses of it, which, how- ever, he pronounces to be decidedly useful, as soon as the papular eruption begins to desquamate. Mr. Carmichael abstains from the employment of mercury for eruptions of the pustular kind, un- less the pustules change into scaly blotches, and he chiefly confides in sarsaparilla and guaiacum, with small" doses of James's powder, or pulv. ipec. comp. In such cases the iodide of potassium, with sarsaparilla, cascarilla, or other light tonic, is often very efficient. Sulphurous and nitro-niuriatic baths are also frequently of service. I was glad to meet with the following observa- tions in the writings of a geinleman, whom Mr. Carmichael considers as too great a worshipper of the god Mercury. (See Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, No. xl.) " The scabs and ulcers of rupia appear to be very little under the mfluence of mercury. I have seen this medicine admniistered, in cases of this affection, to patients of pretty vigorous habits; and although it acted in a most kindly manner, and produced a full and healthy ptyalism, yet it had not any effect ni causmg the scabs of rupia to dry up and fall off ; nor did it induce in those ulcers which had been exposett by the previous removal of the crusts any disposi- tion to heal; the only change induced by it on these was to convert them into ulcers, whicll, though florid, presented one uniform smooth sur- face, sunk below the level of the skin, and totally devoid of granulations, which proved very slow and difficult to heal. But the administration or mercury to patients afflicted with rupia is worse than useless in all instances where the patient 13 naturally delicate, or has been much reduced o lowered by previous disease ; for in all suca ■ proves almost invariably fatal by increasing tne weakness, and generally by inducing an ""con- trollable diarrhffia.-' (^Ahr. Colles, op. cit. p. UJ.) In University College Hospital, have seen viirious examples of rupia yield to small doses w 5 grs.) of the iodide of potassium given thrice . day, with sarsaparilla. In s.mie instances, I o«- ever, the cure required other means for its comp e tion, as nitrous acid, the nitro-miiriatic bath, t liquor arsenicalis, the sulphate "f/I>'"'"'^'"".Vt dose of comp. powder of ipecacuanha, every "'g at bed-time.