302 MORTIFICATION. fetor of putrefiiction, produced during life, consti- tute, therefore, signs of great value in mortilication. Their absence, however, furnishes no proof, that local death may not have taken place; for putre- faction, or chemical decomposition, of an ori;an may not follow as the consequence of the cessation of those powers, by means of which it was enabled to resist the injurious influence of external agents, iintil some time have elapsed, the length of which will depend on various circumstances, but more especially on the quantity of fluids contained in the affected organ, and the degree of tempera- ture to which it is exposed." (See Carsivell, in JSlem. Forms of Disease, Fasc. 7.) The state of the blood and vascular system in mortification from in- flammation has been elsewhere described. (See Inflammation.) MortiJicaUon often arises jrom a ineclLanical ob- stacle to the ciroulatmi of the blood. Tims tlie blood may be hindered from arriving at, or return- ing from, the part. " In both casL-s, mortification is the consequence of the cessation of the function of nutrition, either from a deficiency of the arterial or the stannation of the venous blood. A defi- ciency of the arterial blood may be occasioned by ligature of the principal artery of a limb; by coagulated blood; organized, or unori;anized fibrine, occupying the entire calibre of such an artery, or its larger branches; by ossification of the walls of these vessels: or their conversion into a solid fibrous or liiramentous, tissue." {Carsivell, op. cit.) _ The causes which produce mortification hy impe ding the return of blood from the part affected for the most part operate by making pressure on the trunk, or principal branches of a vein. In these instances there is always an accumulation of blood in the part, which first swells, becomes of a dark livid colour, tense, and very painful, boon afterwards, vesicles arise, and the part becomes soft, oedematous, cold, insensible, emphysematous, black, and fetid. Such are the circumstances which happen in strangulated hernia, in tied polypi, and in a limb in which the veins have been so compressed by any hard swelling, such as the head of a dislocated bone, as to excite mortification. In hernia the bowel assumes a dark brown, and sometimes nearly a black, colour, from stagnation of the venous blood. i * ti. Mortification from a. mechanical obstacle to the return of the venous blood is not only well exem- plified in strangulated hernia, but also in intussus- ception of the intestines, " When the superior portion of the intestine passes into the inferior, it carries along with it that part of the mesentery to which it is attached. If it does not suff-er much compression, the invaginating process may go on to a great extent; but, if it is compressed to such a degree that the return of the venous blood is obstructed, this stage of the disease is arrested on acc.mnt of the congestion of all the tunics of the invaginated portion. The congestion is not the consequence of inflammation; it is produced l.y compression, and in the following manner: when the mesentery is put on the stretch, by the descent of the superior into the inferior purlion of the intes- tine, the veins belonging to it are compressed be- tween the walls of both portions, just at the point where the invagination terminates superiorly. _ II adhesive inflammation take place at this point, the peritoneal surface of both portions becomes are much less affected by pressure than the veins, they continue to pour their blood into the invagi- nated portion, This fluid accumulates, and pro- duces an extreme degree of congestion of the mucous and submucous coats, giving to them a deep red, or almost black colour." From gan- grene, the disease may advance to sphacelus of the whole of the invaginated portion, which may be discharged in the form of irregiUar shreds, of a dirty- ash-grey, brown, or black colour. (See C'arswell's Elcm. Form of Disease, Fasc. 7.) In the same invaluable work will be found perhaps the best description yet extant, of another variety of morti- fication from impediment to the venous circulation, depending upon disease of the heart, and mani- fested in the lower extremities. It begins with slight (Edema round the ankles, and afterwards the serosity becomes more widely and deeply diffused; the feet, legs, and thighs becoming swollen, and the skin smooth and pale. When discoloration of the skin takes place, it de- pends on the presence of subcutaneous veins, which increase in bulk and number, coalesce at several points, and communicate a slightly mottled aspect to the limb, of a dull red or purple colour. On one or more of these points, where the conges- tion is greatest, phlyctense or large bulla; are formed, and when these burst, the subjacent cutis presents a dark red or brown colour, and is soon converted into a dirty yellow, or ash-grey slough. The separation of the slough is sometimes pre- ceded by an increase of redness in the surrounding cutis, which is obviously of an inflammatory na- ture. In other instances this redness is very slight, and plainly owing to venous congestion. The quantity of serosity efi'used causes by its pressure further obstruction to the venous circulation, and in the earlv stage conceals the venous congestion itself. (See Carsivell, op. cit. Fasc. 7.) Other causes operate by preventing iJte entrance of arterial blood. The application of a ligature to an artery, as practised in various surgical cases, and all external pressure that closes the artery, or arteries, on which a part entirely depends for us supply of blood, have this effect. Mortification does not, however, always take place when the trunk of an artery is rendered impervious, because nature furnishes the necessary supply of blood through collateral ramifications. But, when the disorder does happen, the part commonly first af- fected becomes pale, flaccid, and cold, and soon afterward shrinks, loses its sensibility, grows black, and perishes. , i i It has sometimes been observed, that the pulse has been suddenly and permanently lost in one part of the bodv, while it has continued to be dis- tinct in other "parts; '"'f r ""^ kind, on examination after death, it has been foun that an obliteration had taken place of a portion o the tube of the artery, in which the pulse could not be felt during life. The late professor John W Turner first drew attention to this subject by the'publication of a series of interesting examples of it. In one of these cases, after the biach.a ar- terv had become suddenly obstructed, followed l.j loss of the pulse, a similar change occurred n. one of the iiopl teal arteries, and mortification of the W ter n nating fatallv, was the consequence Aaer de h, the br-^child artery nt the elbow was ftui d embedded in a hardened mass, composed of the peritoneal surface of both portions becomes """^ " ..^inr ^ united, and the veins obliterated. As the arteries | the surrounding cellular