INFLAMMATION. adhering to the walls, pale and distended. " It is some time before the dilated vessels fully recover their usual calibre." ( Whai-ton Jones, Rep. in Br. and For. lievkw, 18-14, p. 269.) But the inflammation, instead of ending in re- solution, may lead to mortification. In that case, " in the part which has mortified tiiere is no longer any appearance of blood and blood-vessels. Next .the mortified part the web is red from vascular in- jection. Under microscopical examination, the blood is seen to be completely stagnant in some of the injected vessels, oscillating in others. In the arteries leading towards the mortified part, blood flows as far only as to the first considerable brandies above. By these the stream passes off, and from them the capillaries and veins bordering on the slough into which blood may still enter, receive the blood. In the part of the web bordering on the slough there are spots of extravasated blood. A slough of the web having separated, the network of vessels at the margin of the living part eventii- allj' comes to present all the characters of a capillary network. The larger vessels which have been truncated by the mortification become obliterated as far up as their connection with some important branch above. As this goes on, the blood con- tained within vessels which become obliterated dis- appears, being extravasated and absorbed." (TF. Jones, Guy's Hosp. Rep., vol. vii. p. SO.) As has been already suggested, there is every reason to believe that what is seen in cold-blooded animals "represents fairly the state of inflamed parts in all warm-blooded animals." " I am quite con- scious (says Mr. Paget) that the most one can see with the microscope is but a faint picture of such in- flammations as we have to consider in practice— that it is very trivial in both its appearance and its results. Still it is a picture of a disease of the same kind ; and a miniature, even faintly drawn, may be a true likeness. Besides, all that can be observed of the complete process of inflammation in man is consistent with what we can^ see in these lower and lesser creatures. The bright redness of an inflamed part testifies to the fulness of its blood- Tessels,^and the crowding of the red corpuscles ; the occasional duskiness or lividity of the focus is characteristic of stagnation ; the throbbing in the part, and about it, and the full hard pulse in the ministrant arteries, are sm-e signs of obstruction to the passage of blood ; the gush of blood on cutting into the tissues near an inflamed part, or in bleed- ing from one of their veins, tells of the determi- nation of blood in these, and of the tension in which all the containing blood-vessels are held." (Lect. 1.) Dr. Philip points out this great deter- mination of blood towards the part. " In inflam- matory affections of the jaw and head (for ex- ample) a greatly increased action of the maxil- lary and temporal arteries is readily perceived by the finger." * {On Fehrila Diseases, part 2, introd.) And it is strikingly illustrated by Mr. Lawrence's experiment. In a case of inflamed hand and fore- ann, he opened a vein in each arm at the same time. Three times more blood flowed from the vein of the inflamed limb than from that of the sound one in the same period. Finally, the actual condition of the capillaries in an inflamed part after death was observed by Mr. Lister " in the brain of a man ■who had died of tetanus, complicated with inci- pient meningitis ; the^jos/-7MO)-fc;H appearance of the latter being maculiform congestion of the pia mater. 27 Having stripped oflt a portion of the affected mem- brane," Mr. Lister " applied the microscope to one of the aft'ected spots, and found that all the minute vessels were filled with crimson blood, while those of the surrounding parts were comparatively pale. It was evident that the red corpuscles were, in the former, so closely crammed Logellier as io produce ilie appearance of a uniform mass, while in the latter they were present only in their usual pro- portion to the liquor sanguinis." {On the Early Stac/es of Injlammaiion, p. C46.) 3. On the Cliangcs in the Ejcudalions and in the Ultimate Organic Elements or "Cells."—Our pre- sent purpose is to describe phenomena, and not the theories by which they are explained. Yet it may be convenient to state here, that the most modern pathologists diff'er entirely in their explanations of the most cardinal facts. For in- stance, exudations may be regarded as poured out from the blood ; or they may be regarded as ex- tracted from it by the action of the tissues among which the blood circulates. The cell growths, and new tissue formations of the "adhesive inflamma- tion," may be regarded as products of the liquids which are exuded, and in which they may be sup- posed to arise after the manner of the earlier cell theories ;—or, with Virchow, we may regard them as outgrowths and oftshoots from the pre-existing tissues;—not as arising from solidificationof a liquid blastema, but produced by proliferation and multi- plication of existing cells. Again, this latter theory may be held by those who accept Dr. Lionel Beale's doctrines of tlie growth and constitution of organic tissues. He discards the " cell" doctrine. " There are many objections," he says," to the use of the term ' cell 'as indicating the elementary unit of structure." The fatal objection is, that in many cases no cell or vesicle can be shown to exist. All tissues consist of living active growing germinal matter, which is forming ; and of fanned material, which has been produced by the activity of the germinal matter ; and surrounds it. In the cases in which real " cells " exist, the nucleus represents the active living germinal matter; and the cell-wall the formed material. Whether, therefore, the word " cell " be used or not, it will be understood that it is the living growing portion of tissue which is signified. The exudation, which has been said to consti- tute one of the essential characters of inflamma- tion, may be either cast out on the surface of the inflamed tissue, or infiltrated in its substance. In both cases the elfusioiis are identical, but in the former, being isolated from the textures, they may be more readily examined. " The materials that may be eft'used from the blood-vessels of the inflamed parts (sa3's Mr. Paget) are chiefly these :—serum—blood—lymph, or in- flammatory exudation especially so called—and mucus." (Paget, Lect. ii.) An efi"usion of serum alone is a rare effect of inflammation, and generally it is characteristic of only the lowest degrees of the disease. Among the instances of it are, probably, the cases of the chronic forms of hydrops articuli, some forms of hydrocephalus, and some cases cf inflammatory ojdema of the raucous membrane, as in the cedema of the glottis, and cheniosis of the conjunctiva. Mr. Paget mentions two forms of what is usually regarded as serous eft'usion : one, a fluid containing fibriue in small quantities, which may remain fluid