650 SUPPURATION. the tendency to rapid growtli, and force the blood- vessels to bring adequate pabulum for their main- tenance. Hence an inflammation of mucous mem- brane or catarrh. 6. Contagious pus (and the same of contagious liquids that are not pus, e. g. lymph or the fluid of a chancre) has, amongst other vital qualities, a force of atavism., whereby it reproduces in its new habitat the characters of the diseased surface whence it originated. The nature of this force is quite incomprehensible ; but whatever it be, it is at the bottom of the difference between the results of the implantation of pus from a languid, and from an actively inflamed mucous surface. It follows, that our predecessors were hardly correct in asserting that pus does not irritate. It is true there are some abscesses whose contents are 80 little irritating, that the serum first, and the corpuscles after, having undergone fatty degenera- tion, are absorbed. But far more frequently pus irritates like a foreign body, and must be got rid of; all sinuses, passages, and hollows that harbour pus must be laid open, or they will not heal. Copious suppuration is a sign tliat pus is pent up : nothing so checks copious suppuration as getting rid of the pus ; the best applications to suppurating surfaces are such as kill pus. The pus of diseased lungs irritates the throat, and causes the peculiarly debilitating sore-throat of the consumptive. Any tissue bathed in pus may ulcerate, even the caro- tid or femoral artery. (See Busk, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxix.) (rf) Consequences of suppuration.—o. The bene- ficial effects of suppuration, spontaneous or arti- ficial, have been dwelt on in the text. There is no doubt but that spontaneous inflammation and suppuration may sometimes "carry off" some material elements which cause impaired health Of the benefits of suppuration artificially produced, the opinion of the profession is less favourable than it was thirty years ago. /3. That the process may be intensely injurious needs no demonstration. Whatever the nature of vital force, it is clear that there must be a great ex- penditure of it in the evolution of this embryonic tissue, and a great expenditure likewise of material. Hence the wan, ill-conditioned looks of persons subjected to this drain, and the necessity of good diet and tonics. But besides the general ill consequences of suppuration, Dr. Dickinson has attempted to show that it is the parent and precursor of a special form of mischief—to wit, that pale, waxy, or fibrous in filtration and degeneration of liver, kidneys, and other organs, which has, under the influence of a particular theory, been called the amyloid. Dr. Dickinson's theory is this : the " so-called ' amy- loid ' or ' waxy ' deposit consists of dealkalinised fibrine." That it is deficient in alkali is shown by the facts that it loses its characteristic reactions when allowed to absorb potass or soda, and that waxy degenerate organs yield on analysis a smaller proportion of alkali than do the same organs in health. Ordinary fibrine and albumen can be made to exhibit the same reactions as " amyloid " tissue, if deprived of alkali by artificial means. The morbid deposit is of the nature of a residuum, and occurs in cases in which the system has been drained of alkalies, and contains an excess of fibi iiie, with deficiency of potass and soda. In five cases out of bix, the cause of the loss oi alkali is the drain of suppuration. Other conditions, Dr. Dickinson allows, may produce the same result. Dr. Dickinson gives several series of cases of amyloid disease in which extensive suppuration— as from disease of bone, ulcers, phthisis, or pyelitis —was the forerunner and accompaniment, and, as lie thinks, the cause. This view has been much chal- lenged by other pathologists, and, no doubt, must be well sifted before it is accepted. Of course it may be possible to find series of cases in which suppuration has not been a marked feature ; never- theless, suppuration may be the most frequent cause, whether absolutely or concurrently. Anyhow, Dr. Dickinson has added to our precise knowledge of the exhausting conditions of the loss of pus. (e) Death and Decay of Pus.-—That pus may die, and undergo septic changes, is manifest from the phenomena of Jieclie, and from the observed fact that abscesses, chronic and quiescent for a time, may suddenly give rise to a train of symptoms aris- ing from absorption, which imply a change in the matter absorbed. Pus, when absorbed totallj^, usually breaks up into an emulsion of minute fatty particles; if it become of the consistency of curd or putty, it is much more diflicult of absorption, and after remaining an indefinite time may create ulceration and abscess.] R. Druitt. John Hunter, On the Blood, Inflammation, and Gunshot Wounds; a work in which more interesting knowledge, respecting Abscesses and Suppuration, is contained, than in any other ever published. F. Qiiesnay, Tx&iii dela Suppuration, 1749. J. Grashuis, A Diss, on Suppuration, 8vo. Lond. 1752. John Burns, On Inflammation, 1800. Sir E. Home, On the Properties of Pup, 1788; Pract. Obs. on Ulcers, 2d. ed. 1801. C. Darwin's Experiments, establishing a Criterion between Mucilaginous and Purulent Matter, &c. Lichfield, 1780. Several parts of Pott's Chirurgical Works, but especially his Treatise on Fistula in Ano. T. Brand, Strictures in Vindication of some of the Doctrines misrepresented by Mr. Foot, in his two Pamphlets entitled, " Observations upon the new Opinions of J. Hunter, in his Treatise on the Venereal, including Pott's Plagiarisms, and Misinformation on Pus," &c. 4to. Lond. 1787. Dr. J. Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 305, &c. Edin. 1813; a work iu which a profound knowledge of Medical Science, and of the Pathology to Surgery, is everywhere conspicuous. Pearson's Principles of Surgery, p. 34, &c. ed. 2. Lassus, Pathologic chir. t. 1. p. 21, &c. &c. ed. of 1809. Seb. J. Brugmanns, De Puogenia, sive Mediis quihus Natura utitur in creando Pure, 8vo. Groningse, 1785. Dr. G. Pear- son's Obs. and Experiments on Pus, in Phil. Trans, for 1811. C. J. M. Langenbeck, Von der Behandlung der Fistelgange, der Schusscanale und grosser Eiter absondernder HOhlen, iu Neue Bibl. fiir die Chirur- gie, 12mo. Hannover, 1817. Also Nosologic der chirurg. Krankheiten, 2ter B. GOtting. 1823. Gib- son's Institutes, &c., of Surgery, vol. i. Philadelphia, 1824 ; or the 5th ed., of which, by the kindness ol the author, I have just received a copy. Baron Dupuy- tren, in Diet, de M6d. et de Chirurgie pratique, t. i. art. Abc^s. 8vo. Paris, 1829. Bauer and Faraday, in Home's Paper on the Conversion of Pus into Granu- lations, in Phil. Trans. 1819, pt. 2. M. J. Cheliits, Handbuch der Chirurgie, Band i. p. 7. 8vo. Heulel- berg, 1826. G. Andral, Prdcis d'Anutomie patho- logique, tom.iii.8vo. 1829. Kaltenbrunner, in IWper- toire d'Anat. etc. A. N. Gendrin, Hist, anatoniique des Inflammations, torn. ii. 8vo. Paris, 1822. Rolieri Carswctt, M.D., Illustrations of the Elementary Forms of Disease, fuse. 8. 4to. Lond. 1836. ./. »• Earle, in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi. ^f>'>""'"J Physiological Chemistry, by G. E. Day, -"•'f;' vendish Society. Golding Bird, M.D., Gi'V's Hom;"- tal Reports, vol. vi.. On the Cheinicnl Nature of Mucous and Purulent Secretions, Lond. 18 . jno- mas Young, M.D., Introduction to Medical L te «- turc, Lond! 1823 (Distinction between Pus «»( M"; cus,'. t'. Oitciei ■boch, De Pure et Giuiiuliilioue, bcwi,