(ESOPHAGUS, loller, while they are also to be rubbed with lini nients, and bathed with cold spring water, till they have perfectly recovered their tone. With regard to the cedema attendant on the advanced stage of pregnancy, a complete cure cannot be expected till after delivery. The alfection is generally more considerable in the afternoon than the morning, owing to the different effects of an erect and a recumbent position Some relief may be obtained by the patient keep ing as much as possible in a horizontal posture and, when great inconvenience and pain are felt, the parts may be fomented with nn aromatic or spirituous application. Frequently, oedema is one of the symptoms of deeply seated suppuration. There is a species of oedema, accompanied with a degree of heat, pain, &c. in the part, and which seems combined with phlegmon. In this case, fomentations, leeches, and saline purgatives are proper. CESOPHAGOTOMY. See GEsophagus. CESOPHAGUS, SURGICAL AFFEC TIONS OF THE.—[The resophagus, extending from the termination of the pharynx, about the fifth cervical vertebra, or lower border of th cricoid cartilage, ends at the cardiac extremity of the stomach, opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. It lies behind the trachea, and in the middle line at its upper part ; but in its lower portion it usually slightly inclines to the left side, so as somewhat to project from behind the trachea,—a circumstance which is taken advantage of in certain operations on the canal. The oesophagus is liable to inflammation and its consequences,—softening, abscess, and ulceration. It is occasionally affected with spasm, malignant disease, stricture, paralysis, and morbid growths while wounds and foreign bodies are at times the cause of the surgeon's attendance. When caustic solutions have been swallowed, the oesophagus occasionally suffers severely. The effects will of course vary with the quantity and strength of the liquid. In most cases such solu- tions are taken through error, and in consequence of the spasm in the throat they give rise to, they are rejected before they reach the oesophagus,— the pharynx and buccal cavity alone suffering. Occasionally, however, the fluid traverses the oesophagus, and even enters the stomach ; where, if the solution be concentrated and the stomach empty, the parietes may be at once destroj-ed, and death by collapse takes place with great rapidity. Even in less severe cases, violent inflammation leads to a more lingering but hardly less certain termina- tion, either through its direct effects, or in conse- quence of the closure of the canal which it brings about. The oesophagus may be partially or wholly occluded, in consequence of the inflamma- tion, effusion, ulceration, and cicatrisation which follows the introduction into it of caustic solutions; while its mucous membrane will be found, in case of death at an earlier date, eroded, softened, or destroyed, to a greater or less extent. (See art. Pharvnx.) It is by no means easy to obviate or remove the effects of such accidents as those above referred to. In the first instance, we try by chemical solutions, or by means of any mucilaginous fluid, to neutralize or mitigate the effects of the caustic which has been swallowed. It would be well to wash out 365 the stomach With the pnmp, if it were not for the danger attendmgthe introduction of its tube alonir a canal, the walls of which may he partially or wholly destroyed. Our next object must be to subdue inflammation,' and this we accomplish by local applications : ice to the throat, and introduced into the mouth,—leeches, perhaps, and the use of purgative enemata. The advantage which some allege they have obtained from mercury in such cases can hardly be sought, except the metal be introduced into the system by inunction. The food must be given in small quantities, and be of a soluble and concenti-ated kind. If it cannot be swallowed, it must be thrown into the rectum. After this acute stage, blisters may be applied to the neck and between the shoulders, and during the progress of cicatrisation the passage of bougies should be had recourse to, in order, as lar as possible, to retain the patency of the canal. If the tube gets entirely closed, the question of opening the stomach and thus introducing food (the deprivation of which is here alone the cause of death) becomes a fair one for consideration.] CEsoPHAGUs, Stricture op the. [This may be either spasmodic or organic. Spas- modic stricture of the oesophagus attends various dis- eases, as tetanus and hydrophobia, and it is also caused by certain poisons; but it is as met with in hypochondriasis or in hysteria that the surgeon has chiefly to do with it. It is seen in nervous females for the most part, and either in youth or what is, perhaps, more common, in middle life. It depends on one or other of those many causes to which we attribute other nervous affections in the female, especially spinal irritation and gastric or uterine derangements. Occasionally it seems to be due chiefly to moral emotions, but various bodily irri- tations—as worms in the intestinal canal, the ingestion of acrid substances, long constipation, sudden and violent impressions of cold on the external or internal surfaces of the hoij, or the temporary impaction of a foreign body in the oesophagus itself—appear to exercise the greatest influence in producing it. The contraction of the canal in these cases lies high, and depends on spasm of the constrictor muscles. In cases of spasmodic stricture of the oesophagus, we have usually symptoms of the general nervous temperament on which it depends, over and above those effects which arise directly from the oesophageal spasm. A feeling of constriction, as if igature was tied round the upper part of the thorax, and embarrassed botli the breathing and swallowing,—pain deep in the throat, and more or less dysphagia, are the common complaints of patients suffering from the affection under con- sideration. The periodic character of the attack in many cases,—the suddenness of its approach departure,—the great and iniaccountablo ind violence of the symptoms at times, especially when the mind is directed to the subject,—the exa^- gerated expressions used with regard to the isoase,—the ascription of the all'ection to an in- adequate and often fanciful cause, and the absence of any attack from the application of other causes ipparcntly as potent,—and finally, the absence of niaciation and early failure of the hmlily viirour will direct our judgment to an ostimnto of the true nature of the affection we arc called on to deal with. If any further evidence was required of