822 URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. fascia, at its point of contact with the urethra, the anterior layer exerts the larger share in stop- ping the progress of an instrument; indeed the posterior, from the contiguity of the prostate, can scarcely be supposed ever to become an obstacle. The bulbous portion, which is very dilatable, per- mits more freedom of motion in the point of a sound here than elsewhere, while the unyielding fascia around the commencement of the mem- branous part suddenly limits it. Hence this is a point at which the progress of the instrument is sometimes arrested, even when no stricture exists, although the slightest management is usually suf- ficient°o overcome the difficulty. Thirdly ; that the urethra follows a curved course beneath the pubic symphysis, and in so doing describes the arc of a circle, whose diameter depends soniewhat upon the operation of certain causes which in- fluence its direction. It follows, therefore, that the curves of instruments employed to traverse it may advantageously vary also. There are many circumstances, however, which exist in a state of health materially to influence this direction. In spare men, of small frame, the curve of the canal is sometimes more acute ; on the other hand, in corpulent subjects, as a rule, the curve is diminished, and the angle which the plane of the bulbous portion forms with that of the pros- tatic part is more obtuse, as these parts are more widely separated by the intervention of masses of adipose tissue. There are also certain circumstances which render it desirable to use instruments more strongly curved than those required for the healthy adult male. In childiiood the bladder is situated higher be- hind the pubis, being, in fact as much in the ab- domen as in the pelvis. In the enlarged prostate of elderly men the course of the urethra is often greatly curved (see article Diseases op the Prostate) ; and in both classes of cases such instruments are necessary. The normal direction of the urethra may be in- terfered with by certain morbid conditions of neighbouring parts. Thus, deformity of either corpus cavernosum from contraction of lymph effused into its subsfcince, may distort the passage by deflecting it to either side. Prostatic enUirge- ment has been alluded to ; hypertrophy of the median portion or " third lobe " has been seen to occasion a channel on either side, thus dividing the canal in two. Abscesses, tumors in the course of the canal, most frequently within the pelvis, which may be malignant, hydatid, &c.; scrotal herniffi of large size, and hydrocele, may all occa- bion some deviation from the usual direction. Lastly : it must not be forgotten, that while the course which the urethra naturally describes is thus curved, a straight instrument may be passed with perfect ease, witliout inflicting any injury upon it. The curve is in this case obliterated, by using the portion which is anterior to it as a fulcrum, by which to carry the point closely along the roof of the canal throughout its course. A moderate amount of pressure is at the same lime requisite, in order thus to alter the direction of the canul.J Henry Thompson, URETHRA, FALSE PASSAGES IN.—S Strict iiKEs 01-", TKUATMISNT BY lee DILATATION. URETHRA, DESTRUCTION OF PART OF THE.—The attempts to complete the canal . by plastic operations, will be noticed in the article Urinary Fistula. URETHRA, STRICTURES OF.—[Stricture may be defined as an abnormal contraction of some portion of the urethral canal. But contraction may be of a permanent character; or it may be only temporary in its duration. It is to the former kind that the terra stricture is generally and most correctly applied. A permanent contraction is due to organic de- posit in or around the walls of the urethra, and is accordingly termed organic or permanent stricture. A transitory contraction may be due either to local vascular inflammation or congestion, causing temporary narrowing of some part of the urethra, hence inflammatory or congestive stricture is spoken of; or, to unwonted muscular action alone, of the voluntary or of the involuntary fibres, in which case it is designated spasmodic stricture. This spasmodic affection of the urethra may exist alone, but in a very large majority of cases it is found to complicate "the first and second varieties. Purely spasmodic stricture is very rare, but spasm may complicate and aggravate an existing organic stricture. The term spasmodic has been used to include the few cases in which spasm is the sole or chief source of obstruction. So when inflammation attacks any part of the urethra, anterior to the prostate, and the obstruction is due mainly to it, the term inflammatory stricture has been employed. And finally, when organic deposit around the canal has occasioned permanent narrowing of it, although inflammation and spasm may either or both be also present, the terms organic or perma- nent are employed because they convey to the mind what are the essential causes and character of the contraction of the canal. Permanent organic strictures present themselves in a oreat variety of forms. The urethral canal may be obstructed by a thin membranous dia- phiacrm only, stretched across it, with an aperture in the centre, or, as is not unfrequently the case, placed near to any side of it, having an appearance, in relation to the re.t of the passage, somewhat resembling that which the pyloric orifice of the stomach bears to the adjacent duodeiuim. It occasionally happens that we meet with folds ot tiie mucous membrane obstructing the passage at one ot its sides onlv; this may occur above, below, or on either side, forming a crescentic septum, obstructing a segment of the calibre of the canal. S.mi ar folds sometimes run obliquely instead of directly across it, all being, nevertheless, examples of linear contraction. These instances in which the con- tracted part is a little thicker and broader than the foregoing description would include, have been tenned '-annular" strictures, examples which pre- sent an appearance as if a piece of cord had been tied round the canal at one point, leaving the re- mainder free. , . • . But in most cases of confirmed stricture, the induration is seen to extend into the tissues around the urethra, to the depth of half a line or a hne; but is nevertheless limited in extent from betore backwards, to a space occupying less than hall an inch of the canal. The centre of the space is the point at which the contraction is most considerable, so that the ailected portion presents a form some- what resembling that of an hour-glass: and it is