SKIN, DIS EASES OF. 583 their close to nssume the appearance of petecliije. The remaining varieties of roseola are, those which accompany inoculated variola, vaccination, and <ire sometimes found associated with rheiimaiisni, gout, cholera, and continued fever, i?. miliaris is a vesicular roseola, observed by Bateman in the latter stages of continued fever, both typhus and typhoid. 3. Bullous Affections.—Herpes is an erup- tion of globular vesicles, of large size as compared with those of eczema, but small when compared with the bulliB of pemphigus, developed on a circum- scribed patch of inflamed skin. The vesicles are at first transparent, and have a pink hue; by degrees they become opalescent, then yellow and brownish, and, at the end of six or eight days, ter- minate in hard, black scabs, which are firmly embedded in the skin. They are often accompanied with a burning and pungent itching, sometimes with stinging pains, and sometimes with intense neuralgia, which may precede the eniption or con- tinue for weeks or months after the cutaneous affection has subsided. The varieties of herpes are:—H. zoster, phlyctenodes, circinatus, and iris; besides which there are several local forms, for example, H. labialis, nasalis, palpebralis, auricula- ris, piseputialis, and pudendalis. H. zoster, or shingles, occurs in patches which commonly form a half girdle around the trunk of the body, following the course of an intercostal nerve; sometimes they are developed on one side of the head or neck. On the limbs they take a longitudinal direction, also following the course of the superficial nerves. H. phlyctenodes may be developed on any part of the body, either as a single patch or as a cluster of patches; the local varieties belong to the phlycte- noid group. //. circinatus assumes the annular form, the vesicles forming rings of various dimen- sions. //. iris is also an annulate variety of herpes,and the rings mark their course by different shades of colour as they gradually creep outwards from a central vesicle ; hence tlieir designation, iris. We have counted as many as nine different tints of colour in tracing the successive rings of herpes iris from the central vesicle to the extreme circumference of the patch. Herpes iris is a rare affection, and is more frequently met with on the back of the hands than elsewhere. Miliaria is an eruption of small vesicles, of larger dimensions than those of eczema, but smaller than the vesicles of herpes, and isolated in their distribution. They are unaccompanied by inflam- mation or redness, and are developed under the influence of the confined heat of clothing and excessive perspiration ; hence they are termed stidamina. In their early stage, the fluid of the vesicles is transparent, and the vesicles themselves have a pinkish luie (M. rubra); at a later period the fluid is opalescent (]VI. alba). Miliaria is a trivial affection, and a not infrequent accompani- ment of the clinical and puerperal state and of continued fever. Pemphigus is an eruption of large vesicles, blisters, or bulla:; which vary in size, from that of a split pea to a hen's egg or an orange; they are developed singly, or in clusters, and they rise from a patch of erythematous skin, scarcely larger than the base of the bulla; their contents are at first colourless and transparent, and subsequently opa- lescent; they arise suddenly, in the course of a few hours, and, if broken, are apt to become painful excoriations. The varieties of pemphigus are :—P. acutus, chronicus, and gangranosus, to- gether with several unimportant sub-varieties. P. acutus occurs for the most part in the form of clus- ters, and is chiefly mot with in young persons and children; a mild form of the eruption has received the name of Pompliolyx Jienigmis; and another form, remarkable for the production of a blister of very large size, Pompliolyx solitarius. P. chronicus is chronic, both in reference to its development and constitutional symptoms; it is the pompholyx diu- tinus of Willan. P. gangrcBnosus consists of bullas which are purplish or livid in appearance, and are filled with a sanguinolent fluid. They terminate in sloughing sores, and appear to correspond with the epinyctis of Celsus. 4. FURUNCULAR AFFECTIONS. ECTHYMA is an eruption of pustules distinguished by their large size and hard and inflamed base. They are never clustered like the pustules of impetigo, but are scattered irregularly over the surface of the body, like boils, and <ire often intermingled with the latter. The varieties of ecthyma present the acute and chronic type; the former including E. vulgare and gangrenosum, the latter E. infantile and cachecticura. JE. vulgare is the more frequent and sthenic form of the eruption. JS. gangrcBuosum, is a rare variety described by Hardy, and corre- sponding apparently with the mpia escharotica of authors. E. infantile is the ecthyma of weakly and ill-nourished children ; and E. cacheeticum, that of persons of debilitated and cachectic consti- tution. The purplish and livid hues of a mild form of the latter have gained for it the name of E.luridum. Furunculus, common hoi]; hordeolum, or stye, a small boil occurring at the edge of the eyelids; and anthrax or carbuncle are the typical members of the group, and will be described under their respective heads. Pustula maligna is a large pustule, solitary in its distribution, gene- rally occurring on the face or hands, associated with erysipelas and gangrene, and sometimes epidemic. Pustula Aleppensis, or Aleppo boil, is a chronic furuncular pustule, followed by a chronic ulcer, endemic in the East, lasting commonly for a period of twelve months or more, and leaving behind it a permanent and disfiguring scar. 5. Nervous Affections are indicated by morbid alteration in the sensibility of the skin; for example, heightened sensibility or HypercBsthesia, diminished sensibility or Anaslhesia, Pniritus, and Prurigo, Pruritus results from a morbid state of the cutaneous nerves, and is independent of any disease in the skin itself. Examples of this affec- tion are, general pruritus and certain local varieties, for instance, pruritus ani, scroti, pra;putii, urethrie, and pudendi. Prurigo is more deeply seated, and more inveterate than pruritus, and is distinguished by intense and often unbearable irritation, the latter consisting of itching, tingling, creeping, tickling, burning, piercing, &c. It presents two varieties, P. vulgaris and P. senilis, tlie former occurring at every period of life, the latter, and most inveterate, in old age. 6. Vascular Affections include the various forms of alteration of structure of the vessels of the skin which give rise to vascular najvus, and vari- cosity of the minute cutaneous veins, or hyper- trophia venarum. 7. IJ^MODYScRAsic Affections are represented by Purpura, or scorbutic eruption, an affection of