UTERUS, INVERSION OF, fi7.-, tumor is to the cervix, the pedicle will be felt on one side of the circumference, whilst in the other parts the finger or sound will pass bej'ond, several inches into the cavity of the uterus.' If the at- tachment is at the fundus then the sound will pass ail round. The difficulty of distinguishing inversion in the chronic state from polypus is greater. Velpeau having, in error, tied an inverted uterus, said, " I know too well that there are cases in which doubt is the only rational opinion." Soon after the ac- cident, the uterus diminishes greatly in bulk, be- comes harder, perhaps less sensitive, and in these features more nearly resembles polypus. But set- ting the history—always a fallacious diagnostic element—apart, the means of discrimination are satisfactory. The speculum may reveal the oozing of the menstrual fluid. In other respects its use is doubtful. The sound (Simpson, Edinh. Med. Journ. 1843) is of more value. " If it passes two inches and a half or more beyond the edge of the cervix, the disease is not inversion of the fundus ; if it cannot pass at any point around the stem of the tumor to a greater extent than about one inch, the uterine cavity may be considered as shortened by inversion." The inverted uterus is flattened anteriorly and posteriorly ; its largest part is lowest ; it diminishes very gradually, pre- senting a comparatively large neck at its highest part where it is encircled by the inverted neck, if the inversion is not complete, and by a thick- ened ridge if complete. The size of the inverted uterus is scarcely larger, and is often smaller than in the natural state. Herbiniaux placed so much stress upon this as to affirm, "that if the tumor be so large as to distend the vagina and prevent your getting at the os uteri, it may be boldly pro- nounced polypus ; and not a partial inversion, which is alsvaj-3 of small size, and fills the vagina." The form of the tumor has been thought to of- fer distinctive characters. S. Cooper {Previous Editions of Surg. Diet.) described the inverted uterus as forming a mass wider or as wide above as its origin is at its most dependent part, wliere- .'13 in polypus the neck is narrower. This is often true, but not constantly so ; and it would not be safe to rely upon a variable sign. J. G. Forbes describes a case {Med. Chir. Trans. 1852) of in- coniplete inversion of eighteen months' standing, in which the tumor close to the os was four inches and a quarter in circumference ; this was the widest part. This seems to be more especially the character of incomplete inversion. In many cases of complete inversion the upper part is nar- rowed so as not to be distinguished in this re- spect from many polypi. This was tlie condition in one case observed by myself. A sign insisted upon by Crosse is the feeling the stretched round ligaments within the tumor (inverted uterus), and pain being produced in the f;roins on lowering the tumor a little so as to render the tension greater. Malgaigne {These des Polypes uicriiis) advises the followinf; method : — Introduce a male catheter into the bladder, direct Its end downwards and backwards, so that, carry- ing the coats of the bladder before it, it may I'nter the peritoneal cul-de-sac formed by the in- version, aiul be felt by the finger in the vagina through the coats of the inverted organ. Another method is this:—The catheter in the bladder, direct the end backwards, so as to bring it to project in the reclimi, where a finger will feel it with only the coats of the rectum and bladder intervening; but if the firm resisting uterus be there, the end of the catheter will not be felt. Digital examination by the rectum will also enable the surgeon to ex- plore the tumor in the vagina more fully. Often the end of the finger will get above the tumor, thus completely exploring it. If the uterus be in its place, it may thus be felt between the finger in the rectum and the fingers of the other hand passed down behind the pubes. If the uterus bo inverted, then the vacuity above the tumor felt in the vagina will indicate that this tumor is the uterus. This mode of exploration should never be omitted. It would be impossible to conclude either that the case is not one of inversion, or that a sure diagnosis cannot be made until this method has been carefully employed. Dubois takes occa- sion to say that the mistakes he refers to in which, death occurred from ligaturing an inverted uterus, would not have been made if exploration by ca- theter in bladder and finger in rectum had been resorted to. The diagnosis from prolapse of the uterus and vagina ought not to be doubtful. The presence of the os uteri at the lowest point of the tumor, admitting the sound for a distance of two and a half inches or more, at once decides the existence of prolapsus. The difficulty of diagnosis has been felt even in the presence of the parts put up in spirit. Thus Crosse, by further dissection, proved that a specimen which for years had passed for one of inversion in the Glasgow Museum, was in reality one of polypus growing from, and perfectly oc- cluding, the OS uteri. He pleads with pardonable urgency that the mode of putting up these speci- mens is bad ; and that the tumor ought to be slit open by a longitudinal cut so as to expose the cavity and its contents. There is one final safeguard against ligaturing an inverted uterus in mistake for a polypus, upon which I would most strenuously insist, having myself been saved by it from a probably fatal error. Do not give chloroform when applying the ligature, wire, or e'craseur to remove a polypus. The pain experienced on tightening a ligature round the uterus is an almost certain diagnostic sign, warning the operator to relax the ligature. The prognosis must always be serious. Weber truly calls inversion malum ingcns, pericnlique plenum." Crosse, who has shown the greatest industry in the collation of cases, says that above one-third of all the cases, under whatever circum- stances, or in whatever degree they occur, prove fatal either very soon or within one month. He analysed 109 fatal cases. 72 proved fatal within a few hours, most of them within half an hour. 8 cases proved fatal in from one to seven days, and 6 in from one to four weeks. If the patient survive a month, the case is chronic, and the im- mediate danger is small. But the danger recom- mences at eight or nine months, when the men- strual function is resumed. Many of these will die within two years. If the inversion takes place suddenly and completely, the titcrus remain- ing fiaccid, the danger is extreme; if it takes place slowly—that is, under spontaneous uterine action —the danger is less. As to the prospect of reduction, n much more favoiirabl' expectation than was lately held is justified by the improved methods of treatment.