INFLAMMATION, favoured this rapid recovery of the stump." Sur- geon A. C. Thorn, of the Confederate States Army, forwarded to Dr. Campbell the notes of a similar case under his own care, in which the beneficial effects of Hunterian ligature of the femoral for de- structive inflammation were markedly exhibited— "the inflammation relieved as by mayic." Dr. Campbell sums up the deductions to be drawn from his experience in the following vigorous sentences: " Lastly, whether the principle be adjudicated as n new one, or simply as the revival of an old one, long lost and unjustly neglected, we derive, as a practical deduction from our cases, corroborated and confirmed by subsequent cases of others herein mentioned, the ever-safe conservative precept, that no hand, wrist; forearm, or elbow ; no foot, ankle, leg, or knee, should ever be amputated for exces- sive destructive inflammation—especially those cases resulting from traumatic causes—without re- sorting, whenever the state of the patient will ad- mit of it, to a previous experimental ligation of the artery supplying the affected region. " In extremities already condemned to amputa- tion, if time be allowed, the procedure can certainly do no harm ; on the other hand, it will often save a useful limb, or at least contribute to the more rapid healing of the stump." Acting on the same principle M. Nelaton and Signer Vanzetti have both practised compression of the main artery of the limb for inflammation of the extremities, and with singularly favourable results. Neudorfer, reporting upon surgical cases in the garrison of Prague, is quoted in the Lancet for December 7, 1867, as expressing the folio wins strong opinion :—" In the external idiopathic in- flammations, and in those which follow operations, we have entirely abandoned the ordinary antiphlo- gistic treatment, blood-letting, calomel, nitre, &c. ; and, as a unique treatment, we have employed only the digital compression. Tried in over ICO cases, we have acquired the conviction that it surpasses in efficacy every other treatment; the heat, the redness, the pain, are removed soon, even in em- ploying only inteniiittent compression, Thus the digital compression proposed by Prof. Vanzetti is ever acquiring more confidence and credit. We believe that we ought to recommend it very warmly. It serves moreover, in many cases, to diminish very copious purulent secretions." The same line of treatment has not been over- looked by our own London surgeons. Mr. Maun- der, the able and experienced surgeon of the London Hospital, has tied the femoral artery in several instances of severe inflammation of the lower limb, and has spoken favourably of the results. Mr. Maunder's first case was so treated by him without any knowledge of the American experiences we have referred to, and his results were as satisfactory as those of Dr. Campbell. The late Mr. C. H. Moore also compressed the hr,ichii.l .nrtery for severe traumatic inllammntion of the hand, acting on Mr. Maunder's suggestions, and m that case also the remedy had a very striking effect. Nevertheless the measure cannot yet lie said to have taken much root amongst Kng- liah surgeons, and it is probable that when the clTect of cutting off the main arterial supply from an niflammation is duly appreciated, the simpler course of digital compression, as recommended by our continentiU coufrcrea, is more likely to rcceiv,. VOL. H. [65] general adoption than the comparatively severe measure of tying a large artery Antimony is second to blood-letting alone in its power of depressing the pulse, and producing per- spiration and stool. It is especially indicated in inflammation of the mucous membrane of the lungs, but it may be used in any sthenic inflamma- tion, as of the testicle. Huxham, in 17,^0, sa^ s that a few drops of the Antinionial Wine merely excite perspiration ; it is an Attenuant, Alterative, Diaphoretic, and Diuretic; in a larger dose it gently purges, and in a larger still, vomits. {On Fevers, Lond., 1750, p. 229.) Thomas Marrvatt, in his Therapeutics (before 1790), desciibes what is called the contrastimulant method of giving tartarised an- timonj-, that is in doses of at least a grain every three or four hours, spite of any vomiting it mav cause. Then, it is believed that if an acute sthenic inflammation or fever exist, the antimony will cease to irritate, and will be " tolerated " just as blood- letting was said to be by Dr. M, Hall. Then it is said that it will spend its force in subduing the sthenic condition, which being accomplished vomit- ing returns, and the antimony must be given up. Marryatt first describes this method, in which he probably imitated the use of James's Powder ; but the term "contrastimulant" was invented by the Italian school. {Rasori, Teoria della Floqosi ; Tommasini, Nmva Dottrina, Firenze, 1817.) Tartarised antimony may be given in small doses, g"" T&~h repeated according to the effect desired, and combined with purgatives, salines, or opiates. The second class of remedies for inflammation eliminates, as Dr. Todd used to say, or purifies the blood through the excretions, thus getting rid of the maieries morbi (if there be a niateries) and discharg- ing poisonous contents from the bowels, or irrita- ting matters which may affect the nervous system. What Dr. Latham {Lectures on Clin. Med., Lond. 1845) describes as Dr. Chambers's practice is of first-rate efficacy in quasi-goutv inflammations of well-fed people. From 5 to 10 grains of calomel are given at bedtime, and a black draught in the morning, and then repeated so long as they bring away "dark-coloured colluvies," and so long as the patient expresses himself as lighter, clearer, and better. But they must not be allowed to cause violent griping or bearing down, nor yet to brinir aw.ay clear, inodorous mucus, or blood, or pure bile. The practitioner will learn the difference between the saline purgatives, such as the Epsom and Glauber's salts, which act quickly, and bring away much liquid, and are adapted for a<;nte sthenic cases, and the resinous purgatives vi-hich act more slowly in moderate doses, and are more fit to bring away dark, bilious, feculent matter in patients with torpid liver and foul breath. Such are aloes, podopliyllin, and scanmiony. Podo- phyllin in doses of j,-^ grain, with two grains each of compound colocynth extract and henbane is taking the place of the blue pill, which in Aber- netliy's hands did such wonders for our fathers. In the acute inflammation of children, such na acute bronchitis, or threatened hydrocephalus, purga- tives are liirgely trusted to, and especially calomel in half-grain doses, every hour or two, till stools are produced green, like chopped spiiiacli. Next to purgatives we niay suppose "that the blood is purified by diluents, salines, and antacids,