Fourthly, the medical theorists 'had discarded "huiiiorarpathology " as something absurd or un- attainable. All was " action " and " sympathy," in the Ilunterian language, where we now think of blood-poisoning. The term " constitutional irrita- tion " was also used for symptoms of blood-poison- ing, and others which would not bear bleeding. But diseases of " irritation " and " action " are cold abstractions; the surgeon can conceive of those apart from the patient in a way he never could if he thought of such a tangible concrete thing as blood mixed with putrid sanies. Fifthlj', the doctrine of conservation of force was unknown, and the idea of quantity never seemed to be considered. The loss of pounds of blood was looked upon as the withdrawal of a stimulus (an abstract term) from a system to which inflamma- tion (another abstract idea) had given apparently ■unlimited powers of tolerance, without the notion that the blood was a fluid of limited amount. What idea of quantity could have been entertained by the respectable practitioner who took 20 oz. of blood at once for peritonitis from a child nine years of age just recovering from measles ? (M. Hall, op. cit. p. 191.) Sixthly, bleeding and the antiphlogistic regimen were supposed to counteract a " general phlogistic diathesis ;" an abstract idea which survived the doctrines of Brown, and still flourishes in full vigour in Italy. Seventhly, the whole ideas of the time favoured severe measures towards feverish and inflam- matory patients. Women in childbed and pa- tients after injuries and operations were denied adequate nourishment, in order to " ward off in- flammation," to avert which bugbear Ramsbothani did not allow even a " weak solution of animal matter" till the third day after delivery. As a sign of the times Dr. Caleb Hillier Parry (father of Sir Edward and grandfatherof the suffragan Bishop of Dover) declared that indulgence and insufficient chastisement of children, horse exercise instead of walking, good food, and fermented liquor led to want of self-control and inflammation. All things n.isty and disagreeable were considered medical. The divine Hippocrates hath an aphorism to the efFfct that forasmuch as all things human are un- stable, so when the height of excellence is reached there must be a fall. The converse of this apho- rism is the homely English proverb that when things come to the worst they must mend. No- thing could be worse than the state depicted by the last-quoted author, and a change came by de- grees. It began by the recognition of the condi- tions unfit for bleeding, which had been detailed by Gooch, Travers, Kellie, Abercrombie, and Mar- shall Plall before 1830. Then cnme the influenza of Wt'i'i and 18.37, which gave instances of fever attended with smart chest inflammation, in which depletion was pernicious or fatal. Copland {D'x- lioiuiry, art. Injliieuza) blames the practitioners who talked of infianimatory action and attempted de- pletion, as if tliis action were primary and uncom- plicated, whereas it was truly adynamic or asthe- nic. I must not let pass the opportunity of saying how much the profession owes to Copland, a de- scendant of Norwegian Vikings and every inch a man, for warning tlie practitioner of depressed vital power in acute disease, and for recommending a tonic treatment in many cases where the lancet was too much the routine. The burly Copland IMATIUN. |-|;9-| held his hand when even the prudent Watson bled. The third influence was the revival of a humoral pathology —a thing which Armstrong craved in 1815—not disquisitions on imaginary humours, but the result of observations and ex- periments on the blood. "A rational humoral pathology," says Robert Ferguson (in his Pre- fatory Essay to Gooeh's Works, New Syd. Sec. ed. 1859), "was unknown in our schools when Gooch wrote " (1829). Gaspard, Dance, Tonelle, Magendie, and Cruveilhier showed by experiment soon afterwards, the effects of the introduction of septic matters into the veins. Guided by their researches, R. Ferguson (Essay on Puerperal Fever, Lond. 1839) showed that "the phenomena of puerperal fever originate in a vitiation of the fluids," and thus gave to a true humoral pathology its proper place in English medicine. It is impos- sible for two persons to hold the same views of treatment of a disease in which one sees violent " action," the result of an ideal phlogistic diathesis, and the other a physical condition depending on the admixture of poisonous matters with the blood. I well remember, during my apprenticeship, seeing case after case of puerperal fever, no doubt con- veyed by the hands of pupils who had been attending septic cases in the hospital. The poor women were actively treated, according to the views of the time, by bleeding and scruple doses of calomel. What struck me as odd was, that when peritonitis ceased in one instance pleurisy began, spite of the previous anti-phlogistics. Now, about tliis time. Dr. Robert Lee was endeavouring to construct a solidistic hypothesis of puerperal fever, by showing it to be " essentially dependent on inflammation of the womb and its append- ages," its symptoms varying according as the serous, muscular, or venous tissue was implicated, {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. 1831; also 7?. Lee, Lectures on Midwifery, I.ond. 1844.) Anyone who compares Lee's treatment, in which, following Craigie, he gives copious bleeding the chief place, with Ferguson's poultices and Dover's powder (not that Ferguson never bled), may see the influence of a humoral pathology on practice. Ferguson was much in advance of his time. His book is full of hints on the benefit of subduing the nervous dis- turbances in inflammation, and no"t looking entirely to the vascular. It is amusing to notice how timidly English pathologists of that day seemed to feel it necessary to touch on a humoral pathology. W. Addison, for instance, in 1842, said, with a tone of apology, that we were approaching a "modified humoral pathology ;" and the tone of Todd, in his Lectures on Gout, 1843, is the same. Fourthly, the natural history of disease was a thing longed for by all true physicians; Baglivi, especially, and Stahl craved to know of diseases as Stahl said, "quales in se ipsis sunt et quomodo observantur se gerere." (Si/eni, ^-c. 1730, p. .90.) But this history was unexpectedly developed in the decade 30-40 by the spread of homrcopathy—a doc- trine which repudiates " Nature," busies itself in combating every symptom, and yet employs reme- dies so ludicrously impotent that they cannot eflect the slightest alteration in the animal system. [Huh- neinanns Orgunoii, by Devrient, 1 833, p. 25.) Jt ig one mode of curing by "expectation," such as was satirised by Gideon Harvey {Art of Carivq hij Plvpccl. 1689), as " the applying of remedies "that