glasses of 2", 2", 3", 3", or 4" ocal length ; 3,0 l wiiLout the help of iv.muL.., -..^ a lens the patient cannot clearly see either near or distant objects, the retina lies within the focus, since no rays are united into clear images (hypermetropia). If there be good vision at long distance, then the retina is in the focus, since parallel rays are united upon it (emnie- tropia). And if it be necessary to bring objects very near the eye, then the retina lies beyond tlie focus, and receives images only from divergent rays (myopia). When we know the relation of the retina to the focal point of the eye, and see it with good illumination, it is easy to deduce whether in any particular case it will be visible in erect or in- verted image or not, and it can be deduced farther, as we shall proceed to show, in what manner a clear image can be obtained. (1) The Examination of the Virtual Erect Image.—If we assume that an eye to be examined is thoroughly illuminated, its pupil widely dilated, and that its fundus is observed by a person of normal or far-sighted vision, the retina may be clearly seen in the absence of a lens, without accommoda- tion for the far point, but if the eye to be examined is accommodated for its near point, or if it be unable, as in myopia, to accommodate for a distance, its retina will be invisible in the erect image, because situate behind the focus of its refracting apparatus. In such a case, the patient, if normal sighted, (emmetropic) must accommodate for distance, but if short-sighted, and unable so to accommodate, the focal length of his refracting media must be increased artificially, so that the retina may come to lie in, or in front of the focus. This object is attained by the interposition of a negative lens. In general, the glass selected must be one or more degrees stronger than that habitually used by the myope, so as to place his eye in a state equivalent to one accommodated for infinite distance, and for this purpose the dispersing lenses of 2", 4", 6" and V," negative focal length are chiefly used. If the eye examined be blind, there is no means of ascertaining beforehand which place the retina occupies in relation to the focal point, and, therefore, what glass will be required to render it visible. The question can only be determined by experi- ment. If the observer be himself short-sighted, he must make his eye equivalent to one that is emmetropic, by the use of a negative lens of shorter focal length than that which he uses habitually. In examina- tion of an emmetropic eye, he will therefore re- quire a weak negative lens, and in examination ol a myopic eye, a stronger one than would be re- quired bv an emmetropic observer. The field of vision, obtained in the direct method, is not limited by the dimly seen pupillary margin. In order to determine its proper boundary we may imagine lines drawn from the pupillary margins of the eye observed to the observer, and having their crossing-point in the centre of the observer's pupil. If these lines be considered as rays of light, emanating from this centre, we find that the observer's field of vision upon the retina of the observed eye corresponds to a dispersion circle, in which the central point of the pupil of the observer presents itself. If this central point, or rather its image seen through a concave lens be situated in the first focal point of tlie eye, the dis- persion circle will then be equal in size to the inipil ui the eye observed. Usually, however, the OPHTHALMOSCOPE. eves of the observer and observed ate not near enou"h to each other for this, and then the dis- persion circle corresponding to the field of vision will be smaller than the pupil of the eye observed, and smaller still, the farther the observer is remote. (Helraholtz.) (2) The Examination of tlie Actual Inverted Image.—It has been already stated that a simple, or compound lens possesses the property of exhibit- ing an object that lies somewhat beyond its focal point, in a magnified and inverted image, and that this image is visible when intercepted at the point of union of all the pencils entering into its forma- tion. This property of lenses may be brought into application in examining the retina through its own refracting system, for, if the retina be at a sufficient distance behind the focus, or if we diminish the focal length by optical means, we obtain an inverted image of the retina at a short distance in front of the eye, and we may see this image clearly by withdrawing from it so far as our own visual power may require. Luminous objects are visible to our eyes from different distances, accordingly as we may be able to accommodate. If proper accommodation be made, there will be formed by focal union of the rays of light upon the retina a clear, inverted image. When, therefore, we perceive the inverted retina of the examined eye as an illuminated membrane, we know that the rays of light proceeding from it are united to form an image, for which our owu eye is accommo- dated. If we inquire into the utility of such an actual image for the examination of the fundus oculi, the answer will depend upon its size and brightness (both of which are determined by its distance from the eye represented), and also, more es- pecially, upon its being visible to an observer. To the unaided eye, however, the image is generally invisible, on account of its smalluess and dimness. It is, therefore, necessary to use optical means in order to bring it into view. If we consider the retina to be illuminated by a flame or mirror, situated in the far point for which the eye is accommodated, so that an inverted image of the flame is formed exactly upon the retina, then the rays leaving the eye will return by the same course that they pursued in entering, and coming under slight divergence, they, therefore, return convergent. If now a convex lens of short focal length be placed a few inches iii front of the observed eye, the rays passing through the lens to enter the eye will be strongly re- fracted, and will be united in front of the retuia in the vitreous body, so that they will proceed overcrossed to form a dispersion circle on the retina The rays reflected from the fundus of the eye will also be united, after they have again passed through the lens in its focus, where they will form an inverted image of the circular illu- minated portion of the retina; and this image, if regarded from a proper visual distance, will be clearly visible to the observer. It is necessary that the observer should look at the foc il point of the convex lens, in which point the aerial inverted image will be seen. Since the obscurity of tlie ima»e increases with its size, and with its distance the eye, it is generally advantageous to be ontent with moderate enlargement and to use Mlthou"h lenses of such stiv.ig refraction have the I