[ON. 1016 VIS but throngh the converging power of one or of both eyes being too weak ("insufficient"). In such cases, when using spectacles for reading, the book being held at 10 inches or 12 inches we may find that the patient complains of fatigue after reading for some time, which fatigue ceases on ex- cluding one eye. The spectacles have caused the eye, which previously to wearing spectacles was not used, again to participate in the act of reading, and the insufficiency of the converging muscles makes itself felt. In these cases the insufficiency must be attended to, as well as the myopia. 4. The " spectacles" are too strong, i.e. an nndue amount of accommodation is nsed, if the patient states that looking through them makes distant letters appear smaller. 5. In high degrees of myopia, where spectacles had not been used until middle age, and in myopics snffering from symptoms of irritation, if we think proper to order spectacles with concave lenses, we should give those which allow the patient to see distinctly only at a limited distance. The lenses of these spectacles must be weaker than those which would completely remove the myopia. How much weaker depends upon the distance at which ■vve wish the myop to see distinctly. If it is de- sirable that a myop, who for distance would require —A, should see distinctly only at 30 inches (that his furthest point of distinct vision should be brought to 30 inches) we give him lenses of—i ( i) ( Wo) ^• If the furthest point of distinct vision has to be brought to 10 inches we order—since (— 1 \ { _ 1 \ 1 5 / ^ To/ — To- No spectacles need be worn—1. If the myopia is slight, e.g. if with — ^ the patient can read No. 20 at IS or 18 feet. To see distinctly at distance an eye-glass or I spectacles, which completely neutralise the myopia, may be used. Spectacles should be worn—1. If the degree of myopia is higher than so that to read No. 20 at 20', stronger concave lenses than —J^-, say — 10 0'' — k ^''^ required. In this case, we order for distance spectacles with concave lenses, which at once completely neutralise the myopia, i.e. which make the patient read No. 20 at 20'. 2. The same spectacles may be allowed for near-work if the patient is young, not more than twenty-five,— if there are no signs of irritation,— if the degree of myopia amounts to about \ of the jange of accommodation'—and if the myopia does not exceed or i : i.e. if with—-^^ or — ^, he can read 20 at 20', and recognise letters placed at about 4 inches from the eyes. If the degree of myopia amounts to more than one-fourth of the range of accommodation, or if the patient cannot read with ease with the spec- tacles which were given at first, we begin with weaker ones, e.g. with spectacles which en.able the patient to read No. 20 only at 10 feet. After some time we give stronger spectacles, e.g. a pa- tient with a myopia of ■j'^- would commence with spectacles with lenses of — After three months he may try lenses of — tV''"'^ three months later lenses of — -jL. If the spectacles with lenses of — To g'^"6 rise to irritation, those with —-jJy must be continued somewhat longer, &c. If the patient (the myopia amounting to not more than -p-or-j-ig) IS of middle age, has never, or only rarely, worn spectacles, and wishes to have such for reading, vve often find that signs of irritation appear if we give spectacles with lenses of — or of — -f^ for read- ing, or even for looking at objects a few feet dis- tant. The cause of this lies in his power of accommodation, which naturally has become less not having been practised with spectacles. In these and similar cases, we order spectacles which allow the patient to see distinctly at from 4 to 6 feet and gradually increase their strength. ' In the myop of ^, e.g., we begin with — ^. Several years may pass before we can give spec- tacles with — I for reading and for distance. If the patient has an occupation which requires acute vision for a prolonged period at a given dis- tance, we must find the spectacles which bring the furthest point of distinct vision exactly to that dis- tance for which acute vision is required. Suppose our patient's myopia amounts to and we wish to bring the furthest point of distinct vision to 20 inches, we give spectacles which are weaker than those used for distance (—— ( — .^) = — -5*0) we give spectacles with lenses of — If the myopia amounts to i or more (if, e.g.,— I is required to read No. 20 at 20') we give spec- tacles which bring the furthest point of distinct vision to about 15 inches. Thus, if the myopia amounts to i we give —^, with which the patient can see distinctly at about IS inches. To see dis- tinctly at a greater distance, we order an eye-glass or a lorgnette, which when held before the spec- tacles should neutralise the myopia. In the above case, spectacles with —| being worn, the eye- glass to be used for distance would be one with a lens of about — In high degrees of myopia (of i i or more), if the acuteness of vision is decreasing, we ascertain which is the least myopic eye, and, for distance, order an eye-glass which removes only part of the myopia (e.g. for myopia of i we give an eye-glass with —-jL). then ascertain whether looking through a slit or small aperture with and without the — 10, improves vision for distance (holding the concave lens next the eye). We can, if there is considerable improvement, combine the slit and the — into a stenopeic eye-glass. No reading or other near work should be allowed as long as the loss of acuteness of vision and the myopia are progressing rapidly, or as long as there are symptoms of irritation. It often happens that highly myopic persons only use one eye when reading. These need not wear spectacles, since the danger arising from great convergence of the eyes does not exist. In such cases symptoms of irritation may appear if spectacles are given which bring both eyes into use while reading. Such myopics should carefully avoid stooping, use an eye-glass for distance and no spectacles for near-work. Patients complain that " the spectacles make the ej'es ache." This occurs if the spectacles are not properly selected ('* too strong"): 1. Most frequently in myops who had signs of irritation previous to using spectacles. 2. In persons who did not wear spectacles until middle age; and 3. in some myopics who are advanced in life, and wore spec- tacles continually. No spectacles with concave lenses should be worn as long as the eyes are irri- table. They increase the irritation, the distension of the tunics, and with it the ni)'opia. I he irritation liaving subsided under proper treatment.