OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 381 uiay be slipped over the ring-, and the patient directed to look fixedly nt some row, or some in- ilividual figure or line upon its surface. Tlie Ophthalmoscnpe of Licbreich.—It consist of two small tubes, moving one over the other by a rack and pinion. Tho tube nearest to tlie observer, has a piece cut out of its side at the free end, where hangs a small metallic concave mirror on trunnions and spring clips, in such a manner that it turns readih'on its vertical axis, and can be re- moved with facility. The other tube turned towards the patient, carries at its free end a convex lens of \^" or 2" focal length, hnng in the same way as the mirror. The tube containing the lens is securely united by a ring to a standard, which supports the whole instrument, and is pro- vided with a clamp, by which it can be screwed to a table. Above the tube, a quadrilateral brass stem, 4" long, and 3" broad, is attached to the standard, and made to slide horizontally back- wards and forwards, and is fixed, when desired, by a screw. At its farther extremity it carries a padded metallic arc, which receives the forehead of the patient, and holds the face at the same con- stant distance from the object-glass. The fixation of the head is completed by a chin-holder independent of the tubes ; but, like them, moving up and down upon the stem screwed to the table. The chin-holder terminates in a padded cup, connected with the upright by two sliding bars, so that the cup can be fixed in any required position. In order to give a determinate direction to the eye of the patient, a jointed stem is attached to the end of the tube, and carries at its extremity a knob. By moving this knob, and directing the patient to look at it, any necessary direction of the eye may be obtained. A small semi-elliptical screen, fixed behind the mirror, shelters the observer, and another somewhat larger, the patient, from the light of the lamp. Tlie larger screen is hinged to the ring which unites the tubes to the vertical stand, so as to move in .-iccordance with diflterent positions of the lamp. For more exact measurements, determinations of enlargement, and so forth, a scale of millimetres is marked upon the brow-holder, and also upon the inner tnbe, by which can be shown the dis- tince of the patient's eye from the convex lens, and the distance of the lens from the mirror. The distance of the little knob from the eye, and from the axis of the tube, can be measured easily. By means of a camera lucida the image formed in the tube can be thrown upon the surface of the table. In use the instrument should be screwed to the comer of a table, and the patient and observer seat themselves with this corner between them. The tube must be placed at tlie level of their eyes, and the lamp opposite to the gap in the tube The patient is secured ns steadily as possible by the brow and chin-holders, with his eye distant from the lens about as far as its principal focus, namelv lJ"to2". This done and the lens so arranged as to displace reflected images, the patient is directed to follow with his eyes the movements of the little knob, which may be fixed wherever necessary. The observer then commences the examination ; for the conduct of which no special rules are required. For microscopic e.iamination Liebreich fixes the patients liead ns fir the ophthalmoscopic, withdraws the tubes from tlu ir containing ring, and replaces them by the liody of a Schieck 8 microscope. The brow-holder (fixed to the ring) and the chin-holder determine the distance of thn eye from the object-glass of the microscope, which can be moved forwards and backwards in a hori- zontal direction. For the purpose of lateral illum- ination by oblique rays, a convex glass of focal length is fixed to the ring bj- a jointed arm, and can be placed in any required position. This manner of examination is especially useful in determining the seat of exudation or vessels in the cornea, in difficult diagnoses of the deeper diseases of the iris, in turbidity of the lens, of the posterior capsule, and even of the vitreous humour. The best form of Ophthalmo-Microscope with which I am acquainted, is one that has been de- scribed by Professor Wecker, of Paris. The body of a microscope slides in a ring attached to a tripod with adjusting feet. Two of these feet rest upon the forehead of the patient, and one upon his cheek, and they are paddi'd to render their pressure painless. To one side of the ring is hinged a jointed rod bearing a collecting lens to illuminate the surface of the eye. By this arrange- ment the ring of the instrument being held hy the surgeon, the whole moves with every move- ment of the patient, and the focal adjustment is not disturbed. In consequence, however, of slight movements of the globe removing the part under inspection from the field of view. Professor Wecker has found a power of 80 diameters to be the highest available. For inspection of the surface of the cornea, he finds a power of 40, and for the crystalline lens or its capsule, a power of 60 diameters to be the most eenerally useful. The instrument is figured in Wecker's Etudes Ophtlial- mologiques, vol. i. p. 272, and could be made from the drawing by any optician. For the purpose of very fine measurements Dr. Liebreich has lately added to his instrument a micrometer, contrived in the following manner : A circular plate of class, fitted exactly to the inner tube, is graduated horizontally and vertically in millimetres ; and, to facilitate reading, every fifth line is made somewhat broader and longer than the others. This plate is fixed to a short stem that passes through a slit in thetube,and can be moved backwards and forwards, or turned upon its vertical axis. This turning, which is necessary, in order to displace reflected images, is rendered possible, by means of a screw on the stem, by which the plate is fixed at the required distance from the object. If measurements be required in some other direction than the vertical or horizontal, the whole tube of the instrument may be rotated on its horizontal axis in the ring that supports it. To accomplisli photography of the fundus oculi, Liebreich employs a metallic concave mirror of short focus (also n Coccius's or Zehender's mirror) with a central perforation of .about 5"' in diameter. The mirror is so fastened to the objective end of a camera obscura that it mny be moved to and fro, and may turn on its vertical axis. The camera is then arranged ns for photography, and the oper- ator allows a side light, either direct or condensed by a lens, to fall upon the mirror in such a manner that it is reflected through the dilated pupil nf tlie eye of the patient so as to illuminatj the fundus.