840 URINARY AB SCESSES, ETC. extravasation, or phagedrenic ulceration, or as the consequence of violent injury to the parts ; and these abnormal conditions are quite distinct in character, results, and in relation to the treatment required, from the two preceding classes. 1. Siviple Fistulce.—The lirk class embraces those cases where, in connection with stricture^ of the urethra, one or more fistulous passages exist, by which the urine traverses the perineum or scrotum, the surrounding parts being not much altered from their natural or healthy condition. In this category may be classed the great bulk of the cases ordinarily met with. These openings are the result of Nature's mode of affording relief in cases of narrow stricture,—they form safety- valves to the dangerous pressure which is being exerted upon important organs behind the ob- structed point ; while they nevertheless form fresh complications of the original complaint. Thus we may often see patients, with large fistulous passages in the perineum giving exit to all their urine, en- joying extremely good health for years together. Treatmeiit.—With regard to simple fistulffi, as a rule, nothing else is required than to dilate fully the urethra. The urine will flow by the natural channel, and the fistulas will heal of themselves, if we ensure a free passage from the bladder. There need be no meddling with the fistulas themselves ; the less they are touched the better. Those patients who form the exceptional instances to this rule are for the most part weak in constitution, have little reparative power, or are subjects of some chronic disease in addition to stricture of the urethra. 2. Fisiulce with Induration.—Those cases in which the fistula; pass through tissues which are more or less indurated and deformed by repeated deposits of inflammatory exudation; such being often connec- ted in some part of their course with cavities, the sacs of former abscesses secreting thin or sanious pus. Treatment.—First the stricture must be ade- quately dilated. In most even of these cases this is sufficient to enable the surrounding parts slowly to improve, and, finally, the fistulous passages to take on the healing process. The dilatation, how- ever, having been made and maintained for some time, and little or no benefit having resulted, it may be necessary either to stimulate the walls of the fistulse themselves, and so bring about adhesion of opposing surfaces ; or to lay them open, in order to produce recent and healthy wounds, so that they may heal up soundly from the bottom. But associated with such treatment, it is of the highest importance at the same time to attend closely to the patient's general health, seeking to maintain the secretions and excretions in a natural condition. Various agents have been employed for the object first named. One of the most useful is the con- centrated tincture of cantharides, applied on a caniel's-hair brush, or on a probe armed with lint, or a fine syringe. Solutions of the sulphate of zinc or copper, and of the nitrate of silver, have been introduced by means of a syringe, sometimes with apparently good result. One of the best modes we can employ is to introduce carefully, as far as it is possible, a small and flexible silvt-r probe* coated with nitrate of silver. If the external orifice of the sinus is smaller than any other part of it, it is advisable to apply a little caustic potash, for the purpose of enlarging it, and 80 facilitating the removal of the discharge, which is essential to success. The application of compression to the fistulaj has been tried several times, and success has been claimed for it in two or three cases. M. Diday of Lj'ons, not long ago communicated a case at some length to the Socidte' de Chirurgie, of Paris, in which he states that he obtained a successful result, all ordinary means having failed, by making the patient apply firmly to the perineum an india- rubber ball, inflated with air, on every occasion before making water, and for some minutes after- wards. This plan was studiously followed during fifteen days, when the opening had soundly cica- trized. Four months after the patient was perfectly well. {Bull, de la Soc, vol. v, 1855, p. 45.) The cure of obstinate urinary fistula has often been attempted by introducing a catheter, and permitting it to remain in the lurethra for days together, on the principle of ensuring, as it has been supposed, the passage of the urine through the instrument, and thus preserving from irritation the fistulous passages. Little, however, is thus gained by this method, for experience shows, that however large the instrument may be, and how- ever closely it may fit the urethra at the present moment, before twenty-four or thirtj'-six hours have elapsed it will lie loosely in the canal, and urine will pass by its side. I have, however, been enabled to cure some of the most obstinate fistulse, by teaching the patient to pass for himself a gum catheter easily, and then making him pass it on every occasion to micturate, for a period of four, six, or eight weeks. The withdrawal of the whole of the urine by this means is essential to success, and the result usually rewards the patient for his trouble. Free incisions through the fistulse, down to their origin in the urethra, or nearly so, are sometimes successful in inducing a new and healthj' process of granulation from the bottom of the wound, and thus in ultimately producing complete closure of the unnatural passages,—provided alwaj's, how- ever, that the stricture, if any, is kept perfectly open, otherwise no such measure can be of any service. In some cases in which external division of the stricture on a grooved staff is indicated, this operation may be performed in such a manner as to include the fistulous opening in the incision, in which case a successful result may generally be reckoned on. An obstinate species of fistulous opening, com- municating with the prostatic part of the urethra, is that which in a few exceptional cases follows the operation of lithotomy. The introduction of a heated iron wire has appeared to me the best means of obliterating it. A fistulous passage is sometimes prevented from closing by the presence of a small calculus in some part of its course. This may occur either by the lodgment of some small concretion which lias escaped from the bladder, or from the deposit and production of such a formation from unhealthy urine while passing through the sinus. Most com- monly, I believe, the condition is present in fistula whicii is connected with diseased prostate, or in connection with calculous formations there. These have been discharged by nature through such pas- sages, or have been removed artificially by cul.irg- iug them, and extracting the foreign bodies which