I I UTERUS, RETROVERSION j 1-y a tumor in the posterior wall, or by adhesions ] ilragniiig the fundus backwards. Fourtlily, as I have several times observed, retroversion of the gravid womb succeeds to prolapsus of the non- J;ravid womb. In the last case, the heavy fundus is gradually forced back by the intestines. In all tliese four cases, the gestation during the early months may be called pelvic ijestation. The uterus grows within the cavity of the true pelvis, and liecomes locked tlicro when it ought to find room hy emerging into the abdominal cavity. It nuist not however be concluded that retroversion of tlie gravid womb is always of gradual formation. It may arise—fifthly—suddenly. If, for example, a woman between the third and fourth months ofges- tation, subject herself to great and sudden exertion, as by lifting heavy weights, whilst the bladder is perhaps somewhat distended, and thus directing the fundus uteri backwards, the superincumbent pressure of the intestines will bear upon the anterior surface of the fundus, and the uterus, acting like a lever under the force applied to one extremity, will roll back, and may get locked under the promontory. Being there, tenesmus, uncontrollable efforts at defecation are produced, and the pressure of the intestines then acts still niore directly upon the anterior wall of the uterus, tending to maintain and increase the retro- version. In this fifth case, there may have been originally no flexion; and the accidental displace- ment will be the typical relroversion of Hunter and Denman, the only form at one time recog- nised. The OS uteri does not point downwards, or at least only slightly so; it is carried up high behind the symphysis, pointing forwards, and very difficult to reach. Tliere is still a distinction to be made-—one of extreme importance. Retroversion or retroflexion inay be complete or incomplete. This distinction is hardly yet understood. It has often been ob- served that retroversion of the gravid womb tends to spontaneous cure. This is generally supposed to arise from the uterus liberating itself suddenly (ir gradually, as it enlarges, from the pelvic cavity. I Now, this is true only in a certain proportion of lases, possibly not even in the majority. What ri'iiUy takes place in many cases is as follows :— Down to the end of three or four months of preg- nancy there is pelvic gestation with retroflexion or retroversion ; at this stage the effects of eccentric pressure upon the organs surrounding the growing uterus are often felt. They may gradually subside, but examination reveals the persistence of the re- truflexion. How then has relief been obtained? The ovum continuing to grow,pushes out that por- tion of the uterine wall which looks upwards and forwards to the abdominal cavity. This part is free; and it gradually enlarges to form a secondary i eac or pouch, accommodating the main bulk of the i| fceUis down to the normal term of gestation. This "I secondary pouch or diverticulum of the uterus ex- '! jiands in the abdominal cavity just as the whole J ntems does in normal gestation, whilst the posterior ') )>ortion and fundus are retahicd in the pelvis I throughout. Towards the end of pregnancy, the predomi- » nance in rate of growth and of bulk of the ab- 1 dominal diverticulum is so great as to draw the 1pelvic portion piirtly out of its lodgment there, producing a partial rectification of the form and relations of tlie uterus, the os comes nearer to the AND RETROFLEXION OF. 891 centre of the pelvis, and there is no obvious ob- struction to labour. The phemnnena just described I have distinctly traced, and recorded in several instances; and I regard the process as an ordinary method by which Nature releases herself from the danger of a locked retroflexed uterus. But some- tinms the course of events is not so favourable. The development goes on as described in two pouches, one pelvic, one abdominal, but the pelvic part of the-gestation remains so considerable, that the OS is kept fixed behind and above the symphy- sis, so that when labour comes on, it is found that the pelvic cavity is filled with the uterine pouch, containing, perhaps, the child's head, whilst it is almost iujpossible to bring the cervix and os down into relation with the axis of the pelvis, so as to afford a channel for the passage of the child. Mer- riman relates two cases which appear to have been of this kind. One of these he attended with Denman. They found the os came down gradually during the pain of labour, as if the uterus were rolling round to its natural position. Hecker de- scribes {Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk, 1858; a remark- able case observed in the sixth montli. A pluri- para had suffered repeated attacks of dysuria, at times threatening retention; at last she took to bed with crampy pains; the fundus was felt about the level of the navel, the uterus contracting; the os uteri was felt with much difficulty above the sym- physis ; the cavity of the sacrom was filled by a smooth elastic swelling, which compressed the vagina forwards. This was violently pressed down with every pain, so that rupture was feared. After failing to push the tumor out of the pelvis, it at length rose, and at the same time another round elastic swelling—the membranes—came down fronr behind the symphysis. The child was then de- livered. Dr. Oldham relates {Ohste.tr. Trans., I860) a still more striking case. The patient, apriinipara, was at terra. The head was contained in the pel- vis, whilst the trunk and breech of the child were contained in the abdominal portion of the uterus; the OS pointed downwards, bat was high behind the sj'niphysis. The vagina, of course, was flat- tened against the symphysis. Dr. Oldham con- trived to deliver by pulling down the cervix, by pressing the breech down by a hand outside, and pushing up the pelvic mass. A sort of rotation took phice, the child being delivered by seizing a foot. Dr. Oldham had seen this woman three j-eara before. She was then suffering from dysuria and retroflexion of the womb. In extreme flexions it is common to find some de- gree of atrophy and narrowing at the seat of the OS uteri internum, the point at which the flexion is most marked—Rokitansky and Virchow both describe this, but interpret it differently. Roki- tansky says the mucous membrane of the cervix is thick and strong, beco]ning gradually thinner towards the body of the uterus. The seat of in- flexion, he says, is always the neighbourhood of the internal os. He finds the cimnective tissues at this spot thinner and looser, and says this is tlie result of catarrh of the uterus after labour. Virchow points out that the whole cervix, excepting the portio vaginalis, is connected by connective tissue to snrrouniiing parts, especially to the hinder and under surface of the bladder. The cervix thus fixed, inflexions arc produced by inllaunuatory ad- hesions dragging upon thu body of the uterus.