The inner margin of the foot is depressed and the outer margin raised, evidently by tlie contraction (if the peroiiei and extensor-communis muscles, the tendons of which are felt to he tense and pro- minent. In some cases the heel is raised, or the 03 calcis rigidly fixed in a right-angled position with respect to the axis of the Ifg, so that the mution of the ankle-joint is very limited; or the heel may be depressed, and therefore the external characters are modified by the condition of the tendo-Achillis. In cases of congenital valgus accompanied with contraction of the tendo-Acliillis, the arch of the foot is really reversed by the anterior portion of the foot being bent upwards from the transverse tar- sal joint, at the same time that the tuberosity of the OS calcis is elevated, and this bone lield in a very oblique position by the contraction of the muscles of the calf, so that the entire foot has a boat-shaped appearance. This complication necessitates the division of the tendo-Achillis, and renders the treatment more difficult. An elongated condition of the tendo-Achillis does not exist so frequently as is supposed, and the appearance of depression of the heel is often deceptive; but when it does exist, such cases may be grouped with the deformity described as talipes calcaneus or calcaneo-valgus. This complication, however, is of little importance, and does not at all interfere with, but rather facilitates, the cure of the case. MORBID ANATOMY OF CONGENITAL V.4I,GUS. In the dissection of a confirmed and tolerably severe case, the following deviations afi'ecting the bones and soft tissues will be found :— Bones.—Speaking generally, much less defor- mity and displacement of the bones exist iii con- genital valgus than have been described in con- genital varus. Os calcis.—The tuberosity of the os calcis is elevated to a variable extent ; the deviation of this bone is frequently slight, but in a severe case it has been found to be nearly as much ele- vated as in a severe case of congenital varus—a fact which argues strongly against the theory of this deformity being produced by any pressure resulting from position in iclero, the f ivourite cause of this, and other congenital deformities adopted by several orthopaedic authorities. T/w as/rar/a/us is tilted forwards and downwards, with a degree of obliquity proportionate to the elevation of the tuberosity of the os calcis, when this condition exists. There is no very material alteration in the form of the head and neck of the astragalus at the period of birth, as in talipes varus; but in one very severe case, I have seen the articular surface of the head of the astragalus a little altered in shape, in adaptation to the altered position of the navicular bone. T/i« 7iai;icidar hone undergoes a movement of transverse rotation; its inner extremity being depressed so as to leave exposed a portion of the glo!)iilar head of the astragalus, and its outer ex- tremity being somewhat raised. The c7il)oiil hone, like the navicular, undergoes a movement of transverse rotation, but only to a slight extent. The narictilar, cnmiform, and cuhoid hones, to- gether with the tarsal extremities of the metatarsal 6one», are all somewhat altered in their relations to PES. 605 each other, in consequence of the longitudinal and transverse arches of the foot being completely de- stroyed, and, as alread}'explained, sometimes even reversed; so that the plantar surface of the foot presents a convex instead of a concave appearance, the prominences of the head of the astragalus, the inner borders of the navicular and of the inner cuneiform bones, being felt on the inner and under side of the foot, with depressions between them, caused by the separation of the articular surfaces of the corresponding joints. The toes and the metatarsal hones are drawn up- wards and outwards, so that the anterior portion of the foot is flexed upon the leg with a greater or less degree of eversion and transverse rotation out- wards—the outer metatarsal bones being raised, and the inner depressed. Thus it is evident that, in a severe case of valgus, the transverse tarsal joint is a much more important centre of motion than is generally sup- posed. The eversion of the foot, or, more pro- perly speaking, of the anterior portion of the foot, appears to have been too frequently regarded as taking place from the ankle-joint, just as the in- version appears to have been similarlj' regarded in varus, and the apparatus employed for the treat- ment constructed accordingly; but it is quite clear that the ankle-joint takes very little share in the production either of the inversion, or eversion characteristic of these deformities. Ligaments.—The exact deviations of the ligaments have not been described from dissections, but in one case I found that the calcaneo scaphoid ligament, and ligamentous bands coimectijig the astragalus and the navicular hone on the inner side were elongated, S3 as to allow of the rotation and uplifting of the navicular bone, and exposure of the inner portion of the articular surface of the head of the astragalus previously described. The other ligaments connected with the tarsal bones are found to be altered in length and direction, in adaptation to the deformed position of the foot, and in severe cases offer great resistance to its restoration. Muscles.—In this deformit}', as in cases of congenital varus, with the rare exceptions already described, the muscles appear to be quite healthy in structure, and also free from any physiological defect; so that, after curing the deformity in an infant, the muscular power of the limb is perfect. Tendons.—In consequence of the displacement of the bones being so much less in congenital valgus than in varus, there are no important de- viations in direction and altered relations of the tendons in va'gus, such as previously describe 1 as existing in varus. The deviations in direction which exist in adaptation to the deformed position of the foot, are of no surgical importance. The tendons which rc(/uire division, in cases of a moderate degree of severity, accompanied with rigid muscidar contraction, are the peronei and ex- tensor longus digitoruni, and in cases of greater severity, the tendo-Achillis. Vessels and Nerves.—No abnormal conditions, or deviations in direction of any surgical importanco of the vessels or nerves, exist in this deformity. PATHOLOGY OF CONGENITAL VALGUS. a. Etiolo;/!/.—The various theories in reference to the cause and mode of production of this, as well as of the other forms of congenital club-foot, have