aching and pain are often pemanently relieved by the frequent use of atropiii. Leeclies (from six to twelve) are applied to tlie skin of each temple at bed-time, while both eyes are carefully kept closed for forty-eight hours after the leeching, if the pain is severe and not soon re- lieved, though the patient have worn tinted glasses. Used atropia, and abstained from near work; or il a rapid relapse of pain, &c., occurs, and especially if the irritation is great. In actual inilammation (choroido-retinitis) the artificial leech is preferable, with which a large quantity of blood can be ob- tained in a very short time. In some cases, as much as forty ounces of blood have been abstracted i within two hours. The patient must be kept in a dark room for two or three weeks. The transition to light must be gradual. Other means which may be recommended to prevent or remove symptoms of irritation are : rest, keeping the head, when lying down, well riiised, and the feet warm; much sleep before mid night; the eye-douche (made by Mr. Durroch, of St. Thomas's street, South wark). Many myopics prefer tepid water, others select tepid water in the morning and cold water at bed- time. The douche maj' be used for from ten to fifteen minutes at a time, and as often as con- venient. The best time is after breakfast (using tepid) and at bed-time (using cold water). No spectacles with concave lenses should be allowed for reading as long as the symptoms of irritation persist. If they are slight, spectacles with slightly-tinted concave lenses may be worn for walking or for distant vision only. The irritation having subsided, we recommend continuation of the general hygienic measures, and prescribe the necessary spectacles for reading, &c. Their use must be discontinued at once if they give rise to irritation. Besides attending to the symptoms of irritation, we must ascertain whether insufficiency of the internal recti muscles exists. The latter is a fertile source of impairment of vision. If the patient complains of scotoraata, corre- sponding to which we discover atrophic changes in the choroid and retina, no improvement of vision can be obtained, though loss of vision need not be feared. Spectacles with concave lenses enable the myop to see distinctly at a greater distance. Concave lenses increase the divergence of the rays of light. Rays coming from objects which are situated beyond the furthest point of distinct vision of the m3'op, can by the aid of concave lenses be brought to a focus in the retina. Concave lenses also increase the region of ac- commodation. A myop, who without concave lenses sees distinctly from 3 inches to 10 inches, has a region of accommodation of 7 inches, and a myopia of-jlj. With concave lenses of 10 inches focus, liis region of accommodation becomes very much larger, since with them he can recognise ob- jects as well at 4 inches from the eyes as at a great distance. The chief difficulty which, especially more highly myopic persons (above find in using spectacles with concave lenses (which make their "sight "equal to that of the " healthy eye ") is that the spectacles cause the nearest point of dis- tinct vision for both eyes to stand too far from the DN. 1015 eyes. The consequence is that, for reading or near-work, the patient has not tiie necessary rela- tive range of accommodation, i.e. the one which is required to maintain prolonged distinct vision at a certain convergence of the eyes. It is only by practice that the myop succeeds in altering the re- lative range of accommodation, so that, with slight convergence, he can bring into play the power of accommodation which is necessary for easy vision, with that degree of convergence. When selecting spectacles with concave lenses, the following points should be attended to ;— 1. We first determine the degree of the myopia; in other words, we find the weakest concave lens which, held close in front of the cornea, gives the most distinct vision for distance, e.g. with which letters of No. 20 can be recognised at 20'. In high degrees of mj'opia (if stronger concave lenses than — -^^ are required for distance), we should be particularly careful to ascertain the exactly suitable lens. We place the concave lens which is thought best close before the patient's eye, and alternately hold in front of it a weak con- vex and concave lens (say and — ■^'). If, e.g. of several convex or concave lenses — -g^ held be- fore — -jL (this being the concave lens which at first was thought best), improves vision most; then — was too weak, and we give (— yo + — ■^) about — ^. If vision is most acute by being held before — y^, then — ^^^^ strong, and we give (— -5^ — + ■^) about — -yj. In higher degrees of myopia, especially, we must pay attention to the distance of the concave lenses from the eyes. A concave lens makes ob- jects appear the smaller (i.e. displaces the nodal point the more towards the retina) the further it is held from the cj'e. A concave lens held at 1 inch from the eye acts as a stronger concave lens than if it is held at i inch, from the eye; and at-J inch from the eye it acts as a stronger concave lens than if it were placed im- mediately upon the crystalline lens within the eye. E.g., in myopia of a concave lens of 10 inches focus, held at ^ inch from the eye, acts as a concave lens of 9j inches focus. If, therefore, we order spectacles with concave lenses, the negative focal distance of which is greater than 10 inches, we must consider the distance of the lens from the eye. It^ to see distinctly at a great distance, the patient requires spectacles with •—1^ placed ^ inch in front of the eyes (or ^ inch in front of the nodal point), we order spectacles with concave lenses of 10|- inch focus. If to see distinctly at 30 inches he requires lenses of 5 inch negative focal distance, we order lenses of 5|- inch negative focal distance, &c., &c. 2. If botli eyes are equallj' myopic, or nearly so, we give lenses of equal strength, 3. If one eye is more myopic, the difference between the two being slight (one requiring, e.g., — Jg-, the other •^), we find the lens which is best suited for the least myopic eye, and give the same for the other eye. If the difference of myopia is great, e.g. if one eye requires — ^, the other — we may partly correct the difference of re- fraction by giving —-j to the one, and —i to the other eye. If this combination fails, we give the suitable c(mcave lens to the least myopic e3'e, and the same lens to the fellow eye. Sometimes it happens that only one eye is used in reading, not through the retina) being at fault,