MAMMA, DISEASES OF IV. c. 10. iVr/fW/c^/C'oo/wV Illustrations of Diseases diseased, the operator ought now to proceed to remove them. After the time spent in such measures, many of the small vessels, which bled just after the incision of the swelling, will now have stopped, the necessity for several ligatures will be done away with, and, of course, the patient saved a great deal of pain, and more of the wound be likely to heal by the first intention. Some information may be derived, respecting whether any of the tumor is left behind, by examining its surfaces, when taken ont, and ob- serving whether any part of them is cut off; for, if so, it may always be found in the correspond- ing part of the wound. The axillary glands may invariably be taken out, without the least risk, if the plan pursued by Desault in France, and the late Sir Charles Blicke and ot-lier surgeons in this country, be adopted. The method alluded to is, after dividing the skin covering the gland, and freeing the indu- rated part from its lateral connexions, to tie its root, or base, by which it is connected with the I. parts on the side towards the cavity of the axilla. Then the indurated' gland itself may be safely cut off, just bej'ond the ligature. Were the gland cut put in the first instance, the artery which supplies it with blood would be exceedingly difficult to tie, on account of its deep situation ; and by reason of : its shortness and vicinity to the heart, it would bleed almost like a wound of the thoracic artery itself. In this way there is also not the least hazard of injuring the axillary vein. M. Velpeau • mentions an instance in which this vessel was • wounded by M. Roux in the removal of some L diseased glands; but the bleeding was readily t stopped by compression. (See Nouv. Mem. de ' Med. Oper. t. ii.) It is a great improvement in the mode of operating for the removal of diseased ■axillary glands, to make the patient lie down, with the arm placed in such a position as to let the . light fall into the axilla. [According to Mr. Birkett, however, the ad- vantage said to result from the excision of the axillary glands, when morbidly enlarged, is as dubious as the operation is unscientific; for if one be_ dissected out another comes into view; this being removed, a third appears, and so on until the axillary vein is exposed, or perhaps incised. 'Very troublesome h<-Bmonhage is the result, and ■the patient is left in no better position than if the glands had been left alone. He considers, when the disease has so far advanced as to suggest to the operator the necessity for the removal of the infected axillary glands, that no operation is ad- missible, at least with the intention to prolong life. (Op. cit, p. 242.)] The above directions will enable a surgeon to remove tumors in general. Tliey apply also in a great measure to encysted tumors ; but a few ad- ditional rules will be found in the article Tumors. One half of each ligature is always to be cut off before the wound is dressed. The edges of the in- cision are to be stitched together ; and, before this can be done with ease, the arm must be brought ■forward, so as to relax the pectoral muscle and in- teguments of the breast. Some surgeons consider that there is a better chance of obtaining union by ladhesion, when the wound is left open for some ■'hours, than when it is closed immediately. The ■wound being closed, a compress of folded linen mny beput over the integuments which have been 28.5 undermined in the operation. This is to be se- cured with a folded towel or a broad piece of linen, which is to encircle the chest, be fastened with pinsjor stitches, and kept from slipping down by two tapes, one of which is to go from behind forward, over each shoulder, and be stitched to the upper part of the bandage, both in front and be- hind. The arm, on the same side as that on which the operation has been done, should be kept per- fectly motionless in a sling ; for every motion of the limb must evidently disturb the wound, by putting the great pectoral muscle into action, or rendering its fibres sometimes tense, sometimes relaxed. The removal of a diseased breast rarely proves fatal of itself, unless the parts cut away extend to a considerable depth, and occupy a very large space, or the patient is much reduced before the operation. However, patients have been kno\vn to die, without any very apparent cause, soon after the operation. M. Velpeau cites two cases of the kind where the patients died on the third day {op. cil. p. 356) most mysteriously ; Schmuc- ker has recorded an instance in which the operation was followed by tetanus {Wahrnehmungen,h. ii, p. 80). [According to Dr. Lawrie's Statistics of Tetanus, one case out of fifty terminated fatally from this affection at Glasgow {Glasgow Medical Joui-n., 1853). Among the casual sequels of the operation may be enumerated pleurisy, phlebitis, and purulent infection J and also diffuse phlegmon. M. Velpeau states, that in his hospital practice he had 32 deaths in 167 operations, or about 1 in 6 {Op. cit. p. 509.)] With respect to the average success following the removal of cancerous diseases, this is a topic noticed in the article Cancer. [On the whole, those patients have the best chance of recovery, or, at all events, of a long respite from the malady, who present a tolerably healthful complexion, in whom the growth has made slow progress, feels circumscribed, and is unattended with enlargement of the glands.] The statement made by Buyer is exceedingly unfavourable ; for, in 100 cases in which he removed the diseased parts, only four or five of the patients continued permanently cured. (Mai Chir. t. vii. p. 237., 8vo. Paris, 1821.) [According to Dr. Alexander Monro, out of sixty cases in which he had known extirpation per- formed, there were only four patients in whom the disease had not returned in about two years. Dr Macfarlane of Glasgow, after forty-five years of active and extensive practice, states to the writer in June 1861.—"I have never yet seen a case of cancer of the mamma in which extirpation proved successful, even when the operation was performed at an early stage of the disease, and before any glandular contamination had taken place, and therefore, I have for a great many years past ceased to employ or recommend the use of the '^"'''e-'J Alexander Ure. Pearsoi's Principles, cliap. 3., and on Cancer. llcn f Practical Obs. p. 504. liirhlmid's Inquiry into Medical Surgery, vol. ii. p. ICI. ./M.s<flmonrf'.sTracts. 4to. CaKjseii, Systema Ciiirurgia; llodierna;, vol. i p. 332. GiWoiiV De Mullerum Mnminis et Morbis quibusobnoxiajsunt, 8vo. Kdinb. 1775. .A. Clubbe.On tlie Inflammation of tlic Breasts peculiar to Lyin?- in Women, &c. 8vo. Ipswicli, 1799. M. Underwond, on Ulcers, Mninninry Abscess, &c. Svo. Loud. 1783. ./. //. Jamc.s; on Inllnniniation, p. 171. 8vo. Lond' 1821. Jloyei; Mai. Cliir. t. vii. p. 211, &c. 8vo' laris, 1821. yjfV/j/crV Anfansgr. der Wundarzn b