JOINTS. DISEASES OF. not entirely correct. (See Practical Obs. on White Stuellim/, &c. edit. 2, p. 14, 1808.) Mr. Russell has particularly noticed how much the soft parts frequently contribute to the swelling. He describes the appearances on dissection thus: " The great mass of the swelling appears to arise from an aHection of the parts exterior to the cavity of the joint, and which, besides an enlargement in size, seem also to have undergone a material change in structure. There is a larger than na- tural proportion of a viscid fluid, intermixed with the cellular substance; and the cellular substance itself has become thicker, softer, and of a less firm consistence than in a state of health. {On the iSforbid Affections of the Knee, p. 30.) In this disease, the change which the head of the tibia undergoes, in many cases, is first a partial absorption of the phosphate of lime throughout Its texture, while at first a transparent fluid, and afterwards a yellow cheesy substance, are deposited m the cancelli. In a more advanced stage, and, indeed, in that stage which most frequently takes place before a joint is amputated, the head of the bone^ has deep excavations in consequence of caries and its structure is now so softened that, when an instrument is pushed against the carious part, it easily penetrates deeply into the bone. Occa- sionallj-, as Mr. Lloyd has observed, all the bones of a joint are affected in this way, but frequently only one of them. {On Scrofula, p. 120.) According to Sir Benjamin Brodie — "The morbid affection appears to have its origin in the bones, which become preternaturally vascular, and contain a less than usual quantity of earthy matter; while at first a transparent fluid, and afterwards a yellow, cheesy substance, is deposited in their cancelli. From the diseased bone, vessels, carry- ing red blood, shoot into the cartilage, which afterwards ulcerates in spots, the ulceration begin- ning on that surface which is connected to the bone. The ulceration of the cartilage often pro- ceeds very slowly. I have known a knee ampu- tated on account of this disease in which the car- tilage was absorbed for not more than the extent of a sixpence. Occasionally, aportion of the carious bone dies and exfoliates. As the caries of the bones advances, inflammation takes place of the cellular membrane external to the joint. Serum, and afterwards coagulated lymph, are etTused, and hence arises a puffy and elastic swelling in the f^arl}-, and an oedematous swelling in the advanced, stage of the disease. Abscess having formed in the joint, makes its way by ulceration through the igaments and synovial membrane, and afterwards bursts externally, having caused the formation of 'iiimerous and circuitous sinuses in the neighbour- i"g soft parts." In some instances, in the ad- vanced stage, we find nearly the whole of the f Mtilage forming an exfoliation, instead of beinc ulcerated In one of the cases related by Sir B -rodie, these layers of cartilage were found lying on ulcerated surface of the bone, apparently un- nnected with it. {Med.Chir.Trans. vol. iv. p 272 "I Path. Obs. p. ]9.-i, ed. .3.) The lilylli nbea alteration of the structure of the bones the thor has never seen in the cranium, nor in the KJdle of the cylindrical bones; but h is asserted another late writer that the cheesy matter some- pervades the cancelli of the whole hone and deposited in innumerable portions of the 'most mo. {E. A. Lloud L Scrofula, p. 12o5 133 Also with respect to the increased vascularity of the diseased part of the bone, alihouBl, Mr Lloyd assents to the truth of this statement as applied to the early stage of the disorder, he repre- sents the vascularity as afterwards being diminished in proportion as the quantity of clieese-like deposit increases. {Op. cit. p. 122 and 123.) " Scrofula attacks not only those bones, or por- tions of bones, which have a spongy texture, as the extremities of the cylindrical bones,and the bones of the carpus and tarsus ; and hence the joints become affected from their contiguity to the parts which are the original seat of the disease." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 2/3.) Sir B. Brodie observes, however, that sometimes the effects of these morbid changes may be traced even in the shaft of a cylindrical bone, so that the middle of the femur or tibia is converted into a thin shell, enclosing a medullary cavity of unusual magnitude. {^Palh. and Snrg. Obs. p. 195, ed. 3.) In the cavity of the joint we sometimes find a quantity of curd-like matter, and the cartilages ab- sorbed in various places, but more particularly round the edges of the articular surface. [Mr. Erichsep. mentions that—"The bones undergo important changes in this disease, the articular ends becoming expanded and enlarged ; and though this was denied by Crowther, Russell' and others, it is affirmed by more modern surgeons, and I have had repeated opportunities of deter- mining the fact. In all the cases that I have ex- amined, the osseous tissue has undergone important changes, the compact structure having become thin and expanded, and the cells of the cancellated portion filled with a bloody and fatty serous fluid. The bone is softened, often cutting readily with the knife, and, owing to the deposit of fat, presents a more homogeneous section than healthy bone. In many cases, tuberculous matter is deposited in It. From this it would appear that the principal changes that take place in a joint affected with white swelling consist in a kind of fatty degene- ration of the tissues that enter into the formation of the articulation, associated with an unhealthy strumous inflammation of the parts, and in the con- sequent deposition of considerable quantities of semi-transparent and lowly organised plastic matter which, in Its turn, has a tendency to undergo the' same structural change, or to rnn into unhealthy suppuration. {Science and A rt of Surgery, ed. 2 p. 692.) Mr. Pirrie coincides with the previous writer when he states that more recent observers have met with examples, and he has seen a good many specimens which prove incontestably the existence of the expansion of bone. " That the head of a bone is occasionally enlarged in other diseases it is impossible to deny; but the cases I refer to were examples of expansion of the shell combined with tubercular deposit in the bone, and no doubt the inflammatory process that co-ex'isted with the deposit led to the expansion." {Prin and Pract. of Surgery, ed. 2, p. 434 .) The occurrence of true tuberculous deposit in bone is acknowledged to be rare; indeed, some pathologists actually deny its occurrence in that structure. Mr. Barwell observes that, when it does occur, it is as a result, and not a cause, of osteitis. " Dr. Cornelius Black has published some observa- tions on what he terms 'tuberculous bone;' {Edin Med. Jour. vol. iv.) but he has described under that name what I believe to be the filling of the J