PItOSTATE blond being occnsionnlly passed after exeicise, more closely iippronclies in vnUie to a palliogiinmoiiic sign than any other. A persistent discharge ol mucus, or of pus, in the ui in^s should also arouse suspicion of stone. The use of the sound, however, can alone clear tip this case also satisfactorily. The existence of tumor of the bladder is less ensilv affirnu-d; but there is generally much more pain; exquisite tenderness on the introduction ot instrnnients; the urine is frequently or geneially mingled with sanious discharge and flocculi, to which sabulous matter is often seen adhering. Exploration by rectum sometimes dtnects a firm irregubir mass occupying some portion of the walls of the bladder, especially if malignant disease be present, of which other signs will also be ascer- tainable ; but villous tumor is not appreciable by such, or by any other examination: its most characteristic symptom is almost constant admix- ture of blood with the urine. Simple uncomplicated chronic c3-stiti9, with catarrh, is by no means a common affection. The series of symptoms thus denoted is almost in- variably due to the presence of a foreign body, to some form of obstruction, or to paralysis, depriving the patient of the power of expelling the contents of his bladder, a condition which is tantamount to obstruction. We may rely upon it that in most of the obscurer cases, there is a material cause, often calculus, the presence of which needs a more than ordinarily searching examination to verify. It may be encysted, or otherwise ren- dered difficult of deteciion by the sound. Single or repeated acts of voluntary over-reten- tion of urine are sometimes followed by atony or inertia of the muscular parietes of the bladder, and a state of chronic retention follows from their consequent inability to expel the vesical contents. This condition resembles much the retention pro- duced by enlarged prostate, and requires frequent relief by the catheter in the same way, at least for a time. Here the absence of physical signs, the suddenness of attack, its connection with a cause recognised by the patient, and the dimin- ished power of discharging the urine after a catheter has been placed in the bladder, are sufficient to distinguish this affection. Particular attention should be paid to the last-named point. In enlarged prostate, the urine often flows with con- siderable force when the influence of the obstruc- tion is removed by the introduction of a catheter, and the current can be accelerated materially by the will of the patient, unless there be atony also, as there may be from undue distension; however, it is not generally considerable, except in long- neglected cases. But when the cause of engorge- ment and retention is atony of the bladder, tlie urine runs out of the catheter, and is not propelled, neither can the flow be much influenced by any efforts of the patient. Lastly, there is paralysis of the bladder, a con- dition in which its nervous supply is either im- paired or destroyed. It is almost always asso- ciated with a similar condition of the lower extre- mities, and this may result either from disease or injury of the cncephalon or spinal cord. There is no evidence of the existence of true paralysis, that is, a removal or impairment of nervous influence, limited to ihe bladder ; nevertheless, the term piralysis is constantly applied, but most inappro- priately, to denote inability of the viscus to expel GLAND. 483 its contents, whether the cause be obstructinii at the iK'ck, or over-stretcliiiig (atony) of its muscular walls. Treatment of Hypeitrnphied Prostate.—If it be discovered, as it usually is when a patient applies for relief to his surgeon, that a certain quantity of urine is habitually retained, the iirst ureal principle is this ;—that it is necessary to c-nsure the complete removal of the urine from the bladder at least once a day. It may be desirable to do this twice, or even three or more times daily, the necessity depending, in great measure, upon the degree of obstruction, and the consequent amount of residual urine. He may depend on his attendant for this relief, but in many cases he can learn to use the catheter for himself, after sufficient instruction and careful supervision. It has been recommended for these cases by some that a catheter should be permitted to remain in the bladder for some days at a time. There are two hypotheses on which the advice is given. The first "is, that by permitting the bladder to remain empty, or nearly so, during a considerable period of time, we encourage it to regain its con- tractility, assumed to be lost or impaired by over- stretching. This, however, is not the true patho- logical condition which causes retention in these cases. There may be some loss in the muscular power of the vesical coats, but it is not much except in old and unrelieved cases. The material obstruction at the neck caused by the enlarged prostate, and not any " local paralysis," as it i« commonly termed, is the sole, or almost sole, occasion of the urinary difficulty, as has been before explained. Consequently, on this ground, the practice referred to gains little support. The second hypothesis is, that the constant pressure of the catheter promotes absorption of the substance of the tumor, and so tends to the material im- provement of the patient's condition; but the fact is, that the tendency is much more to ulceration than absorption. It will of course be understood that there is no reference here to cases in which urgent urinary retention has existed, which has been relieved with difficulty by the catheter; or to those in which great pain is produced, or un- usual obstacles are encountered in passing the instrument. In such circumstances we may be justified in permitting the catheter to remain in the canal for a considerable period. As to the kind of instrument to be recommended, I have seen silver and flexible instruments used with equal facility by diiferent patients, the nature of the case, and the result of trials with both, deciding the question in each particular instance. Perhaps flexible instruments are, in the majority of cases, the better and safer kind: and when they are employed, the curve is always required to be greater than they naturally possess as supplied fresh from the maker's hands. Hence they should be kept for some time before they are wanted, each mounted upon an over-curved atilet, so that when required it may retain as much of the curve as may be desired alter the stilet is withdrawn. ^ Supposing, however, that the case is one in which, from neglect or otherwise, the urine has been long permitted to accumulate, and the residual amount after micturition has reached a pint, or even two. If we evacuate the bladder two or three times daily, great relief will undoubtedly be at once ulforded to the patient, but the sudden < li2