IHIS, PROLAPSUS OF, the edge of the cornea, that it is the pupillary portion of the iris which is prolapsed, we ought tn lose no time iu smearing the extract of belladonna on the eyebrow and lids, and dropping a solu- tion of atropine upon the eyeball. (See Art. Atropi.4 and BelI/ADONNa.) In the course ol from fifteen to thirty minutes, the belladonna will have prohably operated on the unprolapsed portion of the iris, so as to dilate the pupil, and perhap to drag back into its natural place the prolapsed portion. But if the wound is close to the edge of the cornea, belladonna ought not to bo employed, as it only tends, in this case, to produce a greater degree of prolapsus. After the belladonna has been applied a sufficient length of time, our attempts by friction, and with the probe, are to be renewed. If we are successful, the wound ought to be touched with a sharp pencil of lunar caustic, which serves to prevent any further discharge of the aqueous humour. " It' the prolapsus of the iris still continue un- reduced, it ought'to be punctured, or a snip made in it with scissors. Tliis allows the aqueous hu- mour which lies behind the prolapsed portion to escape, and favours the return of the iris to its natural situation ; which we must now endeavour to accomplish by the means already indicated." (See Mackenzie On Diseases of the Eye, p. 359, ed. 2 ; Macfarlane, in Glasgoiv Med. Journ. vol. i. p. lOi; and Gibson 07i Artificial Pupil, p. 42.) In conformity with Scarpa's principles, there are two principal indications in the treatment of recent prolapsus of the iris. The first is, to diminish, as speedily as possible, the exquisite sensibility in the protruded part of the iris ; the other is gradually to destroy the projecting portion of this membrane to such a depth as shall be sufficient to prevent the little tumour from keeping the edges of the wound or ulcer of the cornea asunder. The ad- hesion, however, which connects the iris with the inside of the cornea must not be destroyed. For fulfilling these indications, Scarpa preferred the use of the nitrate of silver. While the assistant gently raises the upper eyelid, the surgeon depresses the lower one, with the index and middle fingers of his left hand ; and, with the right, he touches the little prominence formed by the iris with the nitrate of silver, scraped to a point like a pencil. This is to be applied to the centre of the little tumour, until an eschar of sufficient depth is formed. The pain which the patient experiences at this moment is very acute; but it subsides as soon as the eye has been bathed with warm water. The caustic, in destroying the projecting portion of the iris, destroys the principal organ of sensibility, by covering it with an eschar, of sufficient depth to protect the part aflected from the eflcct of the friction of the eyelids. These advantages only last while the eschar re- mains adherent to the little tumour formed by the iris; when it falls off, as it usually does two or three days after the use of the caustic, all the pain, inflammation, &c., arc rekindled, with this dif- ference, that they are less intense and acute than they were previously, and the tumour of the iris is not so prominent as it was before the caustic was applied. When these symptoms make their ap pearance, the surgeon must once more have re 107 course to the nitrate of silver, and employ it a third and even a fourth time, as occasion may require, until the prominent portion of the iris is sufficiently reduced. There is a certain period, beyond which the application of caustic becomes improper. This is the case whenever the surgeon continues to em- ploy the caustic after the little tumour of the iris has been destroyed to a level with the external eilges of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, and the application begins to destroy the granulations just as they are originating. He must now dis- continue the caustic. The adhesion, which the projecting part of the iris contracts to the internal margin of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, during the treatment, con- tinues during the rest of the patient's life. Hence, even after the most successful treatment, the pupil remains a little inclined towards the place of the scar, and of an oval figure. The change in the situation and shape of the pupil, however, causes little or no diminution of the patient's faculty of discerning the smallest objects ; and is much less detrimental to the sight than one inexperienced in these matters might conceive; provided the scar on the cornea be not too extensive nor situated exactly in its centre. If the prolapsus be considerable, Mr. Middlemore prefers dropping into the eye a solution of from one to four grains of nitrate of silver in an ounce of distilled water, or touching the protruded part of the iris with a fine camel-hair pencil, dipped in the solution, and occasionally bathing the eye with the common alum or zinc lotion. He also recommends ap- plying the extract of belladonna every twenty-four hours to the forehead and eyebrow. But, when acute inflammation prevails, he enjoins caution with respect to stimulants, until such inflammation has been subdued. (See R. Middlemore on Dis. of the Eye, vol. i. p. 714.) Accord'ing to Scarpa the excision of the pro- trusion with scissors can only be practised with success when the iris has contracted a firm ad- hesion to the internal edge of the wound or ulcer of the cornea; and, more especially, in that old prolapsus of the iris, in which the projecting portion of the iris has become with time almost insensible, hard, and callous, with its base strangulated be- tween the edges of the wonnd or ulcer of the cornea, and, besides being adherent to them, has also a slender pedicle. Scarpa, indeed, has seen an incarcerated one fall off of itself. In such circumstances the excision of the old prolapsus of the iris is not attended with the least danger; for, after removing, with a stroke of the scissors, that prominent portion of the iris which has already contracted internal adhesions to the ulcerated margin of the cornea, so as to reduce it to a level with the external edges of the ulcer there is no hazard of renewing the effusion of the aqueous humour, or giving an opportunity for an- other piece of the iris to be protruded. One or two applications of the nitrate of silver suffice afterwards for the production of granulations on the ulcer of the cornea and the formation of a cicatrix. But it is not so in the treatment of the recent prolapsus of the iris, which has no adhesions to the internal edges of the wound or ulcer of the cornea. In four subjects, allected with recent prolapsus of the iris, after Scarpa had removed, with a pair of convex-edged scissors, a portion of that mem- brane projecting beyond the cornea, of about the