90 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS. as to its cause, cannot but be regarded with anxietj', and it will be well for the practitioner, both in jus- tice to himself and to the friends of the sufferer, to express a decidedlj"- unfavourable prognosis. In the instance of mechanical obstruction in the small intestines the hope of obtaining relief from drugs is indeed slight, while the surgeon's art, if called to the aid of medicine, inflicts an injury froru which few recover. Trealment. — Cause of obstruction doiihtful. When contemplating a case of intestinal obstruc- tion, the following question will at once arise in the mind of the practitioner : where is the seat, and what is the nature of the obstruction ? In some instances the symptoms may be sufficiently decided and will respond at once to the above query, but in the majority of cases approximation to the truth will not be reached. Under such circumstances, general pi'inciples of treatment must be adopted. The first indication is, to restore the natural channel of the intestine and to relieve con- stipation. To effect this object, provided that there be no distinct indication of mechanical ob- struction, an aperient guarded by a previous dose of opium should be administered by the mouth, while if the above do not suffice after a second or third repetition at most, the colon should be washed out by copious enemata of warm water, or further excited to action by purgative and stimu- lating injections. There is a possible fallacy in connexion with the use of the flexible tube, for which the surgeon must be prepared. He must not be deceived by a simple disappearance of many inches of tube introduced per anum, and be led thereby to believe that the lower bowel is free, because it will sometimes happen that the extre- mitj' of the tube impinging upon some obstacle, such as the promontory of the sacrum, a fold of membrane or morbid growth will yield to the pressiu-e from behind and bend upon itself. To avoid such accident, the fore finger of one hand should be introduced into the rectum to direct and watch the progress of the tube, while the surgeon occasionally removes the pressure in order to give the tube an opportunity of recoiling, if it should havemet with an obstacle. Both the tube and the enema should be introduced carefully and slowly—carefully, to avoid laceration of the bowel; slowly, to give the bowel an opportunity of accus' toming itself to increasing distension. The use of the flexible tube inadiagnosticpoint ofviewis shown in a case related by Dr. Barlow {Guy's Hospital Reports, Series ii. vol. ii. p. 389) in which fatal obstruction arose from a twist of the sigmoid flexure to the right side. " The extremity of the tube was most distinctly felt in the riglit hypogas- tric region," In reference to the flexible tube, Mr. Gowlland insists upon its being well softened in hot water, and also that as it advances along the bowel this latter should be prepared to receive the tube by previotis distension with water. He believes that on one occasion, occurring at the London Hospital, the tube passed as far as the ileo-ca;cal valve, the water being heard flownig from the tube, by the ear applied over the right iliac fossa, The autopsy showed tlie seat of stran- gulation to be at the lower part of the ileum. These meiins having been fairly tried and perhaps proved to be rather injurious than useful, aperients must be aljaudoned and a soothing and sedative mode of treatment be adopted. Opium by the mouth and per rectum should be freely admin- istered; it alleviates pain, supports the strength, procures sleep and tends to check peristalsis, and by so doing not only prevents the accession of in- flammation by insuring rest to the bowel, but also affords nature the time and opportunity to effect any reparative action that may be necessary to re- covery. Although the value of opium cannot be over-estimated, there is one disadvantage associated with its use—it masks symptoms and morbid changes which might be acted upon with advan- tage to the patient, if recognised by the practi- tioner as soon as developed. Bearing in mind this delusive efl'ect of the drug, the surgeon must en- deavour to detect the progress of disease through the opiate atmosphere in Avhich he has enveloped his patient. The second indication is to prevent and subdue inflammation; by the combination of calomel and antimony with opium, by the local application of leeches, or even by venesection, provided the symp- toms of peritonitis or enteritis be sufficiently severe, and the vascular system be tolerant of depletion, as indicated by a hard, resisting, and perhaps small pulse. Thirdly, the strength should be supported by the administration of nutrient enemata, should the stomach be intolerant of food; while thirst may be allayed by portions of ice allowed to melt in the mouth. By thus husbanding the patient's powers, and affording nature the opportunity of working some beneficial change within, the constipation will sometimes, however unexpectedly, be relieved, and a recovery result. Under any circumstances, the patient's sufferings will be alleviated, his life may possibly be prolonged, and hope expires only with his last breath. Lastly. We would again insist upon a cautious employment of aperients, whether vegetable or mineral. If, under their use, vomiting contintie or become stercoraceous, and abdominal distension be ion the increase, we maybe certain that the time for such treatment has passed, and that it cannot be continued with impunitj"-. Abdominal Manipulation and Posturing. — No evidence of ulceration being present, and the pa- tient being completely under the influence of chloroform, and muscular volition in abeyance, the abdomen should be relaxed as much as possible by flexing the thighs and chest upon the former cavity. The abdomen is now to be gently but thoroughly kneaded in every possible direction by the hands of the operator, while the posture of the trunk is as often changed, with the hope that some fortunate alteration may take place amongst the viscera within — such as the untwisting of the bowel, the restoration of an invagination to its normal position, or the dislodgraent of a gall-stone. The surgeon's attention and manipulations should especially bo directed to the suspected seat of obstruction. In a case treated by Mr. Childs, the symptoms were removed by placing the patient upon his head. In a case of obstruction under the writer's care in the London Hospital {Lancet, Dec. 1861), a thorough kneading and shaking of the contents of the abdo- minal cavity caused a discharge of flatus, and was followed by recovery. (Sec also Med. Timef, Nov. 22, 185(), p. 51,% case reported by Mr, J. Long.) Typical forms of Intestinal Obstruction.— Intus- susception or introsusception, volvulus. A disease produced by the passing of one portion of an intestine