VENEREAL DISEASE. 9G9 usually largo and protuberant in the regions of the frontal eminences ; often there is a well-marked l)road depression a little above the eyebrows. The hair is usually dry and thin, and now and then (but only rarely) the nails are broken and splitting into layers. If the eyes have already sulf'ered, a hazy state of the cornea and a peculiar leaden, lustreless condition of the iries, with or without synechias, may be expected. If, however, the eyes have not yet been attacked by syphilitic inflamma- tion, they will present no deviation from the state of perfect health and brilliancy. The occurrence of well-characterised interstitial keratitis is naw considered by several high authorities as pathogno- monic of inherited taint. It is almost invariably coincident with the syphilitic type of teeth, and when these two conditions are found together in the same individual, I should certainly feel that the diagnosis was bej'ond doubt. As a general rule, however, it is only by the careful estimate of various physiognomical conditions and symp- tmns considered together, and mutually supporting each other, that the diagnosis of this diathesis can bo established. I must especially beg of those who have not previously made the deformities of the teeth the subject of special study to be very careful in their inferences. Mistakes leadin^ to painful and much-regretted consequences may ensue from too hasty reliance upon misinterpreted symptoms." With respect to the symptoms of "chronic interstitial keratitis," resulting from inherited syphilis, in Chapter II., p. 28, the following de- scription is given :— *' Clironic interstitial Iceratitis usually commences as a diffuse haziness near the centre of the cornea of one eye. There is at this stage no ulceration, and exceedingly slight evidence of the congestion of any tunic. The patient, however, almost always complains of some irritability of the eye, as well as of dim sight. If looked at carefully, the dots of haze are seen to be in the structure of the cornea itself, and not on either surface ; they are also separate from each other like so many micro- scopic masses of fog. In the course of a few weeks, or it may be more rapidly, the whole cornea, ex- cepting a band near its margin, has become densely opaque by the spreading and confluence of these interstitial opacities. Still, however, the greater density of certain parts—centres, as it were, of the disease—is clearly perceptible. Early in this st;ige the comparison to ground glass is appropriate. There is now almost aUvaj's a aone of sclerotic congestion, and more or less intolerance of light, with pain around the orbit. After from one to two months, the other cornea is attacked, and goes through the same stages, but rather faster than the first. A period in which the patient is so far blind that there is but bare perception of light now often follows, after which the eye first affected be- gins to clear. In the course of a year or eighteen months a very surprising degree of improvement has probably taken place. In milder cases, and under suitalile treatment, the duration may be much less than thh-i, and the restoration to transparency complete ; but in many instances patches of haze remain for years, if not for life. In the worst stage, the corneal surface looks slightly granular, and from the very beginning it has lost its polish, and does not reflect images with definite outlines. In certain cases after the gruuTid-ghiss stage is passed, a yet more severe one ensues, in which the whole structui'e of the cornea becomes pink or salmon-coloured from vascularity, and in these cre- sentic fringes of vessels are often noticed at its circumference. In the best recoveries the ej-e usually remains somewhat damaged as to vision, and often a degree of abnormal expansion of the cornea is apparent. Only in one or two cases have I ever observed ulcers of distinguishable size on the surface of the cornea, and I have scarcely ever seen pustules on any part of it." "The duration of these cases (p. 127) is very unequal. I have seen the cornea cleared, and the attack over within two months, or even less, from the date of the commencement, but this is rare. More frequently from six to eight months are con- sumed before the cornea is restored to fair trans- parency. In many cases the duration is yet longer, and we have not a few patients attending at Moor- fields in whom slow improvement is still taking place after the lapse of several years. I am per- suaded that most of our systematic works under- state the risk of permanent damage to the eye which attends this disease, and also give the average duration of its attacks as considerably shorter than they will be found to be in reality. It is neces- sary to keep careful notes of all cases if we would avoid erroneous conclusions on those points." Chapter I. is devoted to the consideration of a subject which has been but little attended to by surgeons, viz., " Iritis in infants." Mr. Hutchin- son relates and tabulates twenty-three cases of this affection, and appends the following aphorisms:— " I. The subjects of infantile iritis are much more frequently of the female than of the male sex. " 2. The age of five months is the period of life, at or about which syphilitic infants are more liable to suffer from iritis. " 3. Syphilitic iritis in infants is often symmetri- cal, but quite as frequently not so. " 4. Iritis, as itoccin-s in infants, is seldom com- plicated, and is attended by few of the more severe symptoms which characterise the disease in the adult. " 5. Notwithstanding the ill-characterised phe- nomena of acute inflammation, the effusion of lymph is usually very free, and the danger of occlusion of the pupil great. '■ 6. Mercurial treatment is most signally effica- cious in curing the disease, and if recent in pro- curnig the complete absorption of the effused lymph. 7. M ercurial treatment previously adopted does not prevent the occurrence of this form of iritis. " 8. The subjects of infantile iritis, though often puny and cachectic, are also often apparently in good condition. " 9. Infants suffering from iritis almost always sliowone or other of the u ell-recognised symptoms of Iiereditary taint. ^^ost of those who suffer from syphilitic iritis are infants bmn within a short date of the primary disease in their parents." Of the result to the organ in this disease, p. 19 he says :—" In seven cases (ten eyes) the cure may be said to have been complete, every trace of lymph having been removed ; in two or three other cases it was complete, excepting that slender adhesions remiiiued. In three cases (lour eyes) the result is not known. In twelve cases one pupil was