PALATE, F . > ordinary channels, but limited in its conse- quences by the agency of the kidneys, the poison appearing in the urine in the form of oxalate of lime. These views are in accordance with those of Prout and Golding Bird. The cases given by Dr. Begbie illustrate finally the necessity of care- ful examination of the urine in every case of dyspepsia. When oxalic acid or its compounds act as a poison it is probably by the development of carbonic oxide gas. On the principle that oxalaemia is owing to de- fective oxygenation, nitro-hydrochloric acid, the most powerful oxidising substance known, is indi- cated theoretically as a remedy, and it has been found in practice the most efficient. It may be supposed to oxidise the materies morbi completely and convert it into carbonic acid and water. {Headland on the Action of Medicines, 1854.) Tlie Treatment.—In this, as in all the altered conditions of the blood dependent upon defective oxygenation, remedies which promote oxygenation are indicated. The nitro-hydrochloric acid may be given in doses of twenty minims three times a day in the infusion of calumba or some other bitter. The bowels have to be cleansed occasionally with gentle laxatives. Saccharine materials should be excluded as much as possible from the diet, and milk, farinaceous vegetables, and animal food enjoined ; warm clothing and tepid sponging. K. Acid. nitr. dil., acid, hydrochl, L)., syrup auratii, aa Jss ; aquae ^'ss. Misce. A teaspoonful mixed with a wineglassful of water before nleals. H. Ancell, OZCENA. (From oQn, a stench.) An ulcer situated in the nose, discharging a foetid purulent matter, accompanied with caries of the bones. The constitutional disease upon which ozoena depends must be relieved before the cure of the local effect can be expected. Tertiary syphilis is usually the cause of this affection, but it may arise from scrofula or from any other disease or injury occasioning caries of the bones and ulceration of the fibro-mucous membrane of the nostrils. The internal medicines which may be necessary are preparations of mercury and antimony, iodine, hydriodate of potash, sarsaparilla, cod-liver oil, quinine, preparations of steel, elm bark, Peruvian bark, muriated barytes, and muriate of lime. The best local applications are lotions of the sulphate of copper, zinc, nitrate of silver, kreosote, lotions of the chloride, or of the bichloride of mercury and lime water, or of diluted sulphuric acid. (See Venereal Disease.) PALATE, FISSURE OF. [There are few defects of the human body which .are attended with more inconvenience to the individual afflicted, than cleft palate, whether we consider it as affect- ing the utterance of articulate sounds, or whether we consider the unpleasant suspicions as to its cause which may sometimes arise. Few defects have more successfully baffled the skill of the surgeon, and few, when effectually relieved, more amply reward his skill. Cleft palate may be either congenital or acci- dental, and in either case it may be either simple or compound; that is, it may be confined to either the hard or soft palate, or it may extend through both. It may vary in degree from the mere bifurcation of the uvula or an opening in the hard palate no larger than the smallest probe-point, to :SSURE OF. 427 the entire absence of the velum, of the palatine processes of the palate and maxillary bones, and of the intermaxillary bones. Frequent reference is made to cleft palate by the older authors, but the only remedy suggested by them is an obliteration of the aperture by some foreign body, and this we may infer from the plates and descriptions on re- cord must havebeen most imperfectly accomplished. The first operation appears to have been per- formed about the year 1760 by a French dentist, M. Le Mounier. "A child had the palate cleft from the velum to the incisor teeth ; M. Le Mounier at- tempted, with success, to reunite the two edges of the cleft, first making several points of suture to hold them together, and then refreshing them with a cutting instrument." Velpeau mentions that " in 1813, experiments upon the dead body were made by Colombo, and that he v/as desirous of repeating them upon a pa- tient in 1815, who, however, refused." From this date the operation was frequently per- formed, both on the continent and in America, by men with whose names all must be familiar— Graefe, Etel, Roux, Dieffenbach, Doniges, Velpeau, Hosack, Multee, Warren, and many others. In the year ] 821, Mr. Alcock performed staphy- loraphy for the first time in England. But the operation was attended with such difficulty, and the results were so uncertain, that even amongst the best surgeons it was generally believed that but few cases were suitable for it. In Syme's Princi- ples of Surgery, published in 1832, we read, " Fis- sure of the soft palate may be united, in favourable cases, by an operation similar to that for hare-lip, but which is exceedingly difficult of execution, owing to the situation of the parts, &c." Mr. Listen, in his Operative Surgery, published 1840, says: —" The operation shoidd not be com- menced before the patient has arrived at years of discretion, so that he may afford ever}'' facility for its accomplishment. An attempt may now be made to close the fissure by adhesion of its margins. But it is only in very favourable instances that this velosynthesis should be attempted." Sir W. Fergusson, in 1844, presented a paper to the Medico-Chirurgical Society on cleft palate and on staphyloraphy, in which he pointed out an im- proved mode of performing the operation. He says: —" Up to a recent period the results have been so unsatisfactory, that I have had little confidence in recommending the operation." Up to this period the operation had been performed very much in the same way by all surgeons, slight differences of opinion existing only as to whether the sutures should be carried through the velum first, and then the edges pared, or whether the edges should be pared first, and then the sutures passed; and whe- ther the edges should be pared with a knife or scis- sors. But with the exception of these, or equally unimportant differences, the operation performed by all was the same. Thus, from 1760 to 1840, little or no real advance had been made in the operation for fissure of the soft palate. Mr. Listen, with his skill as !in operator, pursued, with very little modi- fication, the same plan as that devised by Mounier, the French dentist, nearly a centuiy before. Up to this date no one liad even attempted to operate upon fissure of the hard palate. Mr. Syrao writes, in 1832 ;—"Split palate does not admit of any remedy for the'division of the hard part, except the closure of the communication betweeii the nose