208 LITHOTOMY. fundus of the bladder enlarged towards tlie pubes by a probe-pointed bistoury, sufficiently to admit two fingers, and then the catheter was withdrawn. The fundus of the bladder was held up by one finger, and tlie stone examined by the forefinger of the right hand. A pair of forceps with a net attached, was passed down into the bladder, and the stone directed into it by the finger: the surface being very rough, the stone struck upon the open- ing of the forceps, and, being retained there by the finger, was extracted. A slip of linen had one end introduced into the bladder, and the other was left hanging out of the wound, the edges of which were brought together by adhesive plaster. A flexible gura catheter, without the stilet, was passed into the bladder through the urethra, and kept there by an elastic retainer surrounding the penis. The patient was put to bed, and laid upon his side, in which position the urine escaped freely through the catheter." As no blood had been lost in the operation, twelve ounces were taken from the arrn. The next day the slip of linen was withdrawn, as useless and^^rritating; the catheter, while pervious, preventing any urine from escaping by the wound. Sir liverard thought that, in future, the linen need only be left in the external wound, so as to prevent collections of matter, and carry off any urine which may issue from the opening in the bladder when the catheter happens to be stopped up. For this operation, Sir Everard particularly recommended catheters, with their in- sides polished like their outsides, in order that they may better resist the effects of the urine. Suffice it to add, with respect to the above case, that the boy soon recovered, the bladder having resumed its healthy functions in ten days, although the calculus was of the roughest possible kind. Sir Everard Home repeated his new method on a gentleman who went out in his carriage, with the external wound completely healed, on the four- teenth day after the operation. The only parti- culars which need here be noticed, in regard to the latter case, are, that some difficulty was expe- rienced in bringing the point of the catheter for- wards toward the pubes, and the slit in the front of the instrument made it so incapable of bearing lateral motion, tliat the two sides were twisted over one another. {On Strictures, vol. iii. p. 359. 8vo. Lond. 1820.) Some other cases, however, which have occurred in St. George's Hospital, have had the efi'ect of satisfying numerous very good judges, that, as a general practice, the high operation ought tn be abandoned. I was present when it was attempted there by the late Mr. Ewbank,and the patient sent back to bed without the stone being extracted. Tiiis case had a fatal termination. Whoever follows this method of operating should alw.ays be provided with several tubes and stilets, of difl'erent lengths and curvatures; for, in the only case in which I have seen the operation attempted, the extremity of the catheter could not be made to project the fundus of tlie bladder towards the pubes, and, after long-protracted endeavours had been made to bring the end of the instrument up- wards and forwards, the tube broke, and the opera- tion W.13 left unfinished. Tlie impression upon my mind was, that no resistance of the bladder could .account for what happened, and that the fault lay in the instrument itself, which should have been exchanged for another of more suitable form, ns soon as it was found to be inapplicable, And I believe that if attention be paid to the suggestion of always having at hand a sufficient number of tubes and stilets, of different lengths and curvatures, Sir Everard Home's new method will be the best modification of the high operation yet proposed. The slip of linen, however, I think, is more likely to do harm by its irritation, than any good as a conductor of the urine or matter out of the wound. At all events, as Sir Everard has observed, it should never be passed into the bladder itself. Whenever I am asked my opinion of the high operation, I always restrict my approval of further trials of it to cases in which the calculus is known beforehand to be of very large size, or the urethra and prostate gland are diseased. The reasons urged by Mr. Carpue in favour of the high operation in most cases, are : 1. Because it is generally performed in less time; a point which may be disputed, though it is per- haps not worth contesting, since the danger of an operation cannot always be truly estimated bj' the length of time which the patient remains in the operating room, slow and gentle proceedings some- times contributing to his safety. 2. There is less pain: a remark, the justness of which maj' depend, perhaps, upon the manner in which each operation is performed. 3. There is no fear of a fatal hae- morrhage; a consideration which, I admit, is one good reason in favour of the high operation, though the lateral operation is only subject to risk of hae- morrhage when the incisions are directed in a manner not sanctioned in this Dictionary. 4. There is no division of the prostate and inferior part of the bladder; no, but there is one of the fundus; so, perhaps, on this point the two operations stand upon an equality. As for there being no danger in the high operation of wounding the rectum, it is undoubtedly an advantage, though the accident, as far as I have seen, is not followed by any serious consequences, and can only happen from inattention to rules easily followed. 5. The stone, if of a cer- tain size, cannot be extracted by the lateral opera- tion, but admits of being so by the high operation. Of all the reasons for the latter practice, this appears to me the strongest, with the exception, perhaps, of disease in the urethra and prostate. 6. A small stone is more readily discovered in this method than in the lateral operation, a point which I consider questionable, and, at all events, not sufficiently important to form a ground for the high operation. Indeed, the long time during which several patients in St. George's Hospital were sub- jected to the agony caused by repeatedly groping and fishing for the stone in vain, has filled a great many judicious surgeons with strong aversion to a continuance of the attempts to revive the practice of the high operation. 7. If a stone breaks, the par- ticles can be extracted with more certainty than in the lateral .operation; on this question authors differ, and the remarks in the foregoing passage are rather against the correctness of the statement. 8. The high operation enables the surgeon to re- move encysted calculi with greater ease; a reason which may perhaps be generally true, but which is somewhat weakened by the consideration that en- cysted calculi are not very frequent. Mr. Carpue allows that the high operation should not be selected when the patient is corpulent, and the bladder la thickened and diseased, so that its fundus cannot be raised above the pubes. (See Hist, of the litgU Operation, p. 173, 8vo. Lond. 1819.)