c.irdcJ it, not because it will not suflico fur many cases, but because it will not sufHce for all. I am convinced that difficult investigations will be most successfully conducted with an instrument that is, from daily use, perfectly familiar to the observer ; and for this reasm 1 confine myself to a mirror that carries a magnifying lens behind it. With regard to the concave mirror, I should, until very recently, have echoed Dr. Zander's statement, and should have agreed with the opinion of Mr. Hulke, tliat Liebreich's small ophthalmo- scope is the best and most convenient for the inverted imag.". Lately, however, the contrary testimony of very skilled observers has induced me to investigate the question with some care, and to compare tiie performance of different ophthalmo- scopes upon eyes well adapted for testing them. I have come to tlie conclusion that my former preference was the result of habit, and that the best ophthalmoscope for the inverted image is, beyond all question, that of Coccius. It illumi- iiaies the fundus somewhat less brilliantly than Liebreich's, but more uniformly ; it is less inter- fered with by reflections of the mirror from the cornea, and by images of the flame upon the retina of the eye examined ; it affords better definition, and permits the uge of a higher magni- fying power ; lastly, though inferior to Zehender's fur tile erect image, it yet shows it very fairly, and in a manner far superior to Liebreich's. Preparations for the Ea'amination.—Among the var.ous forms of ophthalmoscope already described, only those of Ulrich, Meyerstein, and Galenzowski, and the large instrument of Liebreich, are adapted for use in the daytime, without any disturbing influence of daylight. For all others, the first essential is a moderately darkened chamber. The second essential is a good light. It is possible to use the sun's rays, admitted through a small opening in a closed shutter ; but, on account of the great uncertainty of this light, of the dazzling that it produces, and of its inequality from the passage of clouds, it is not to be recommended. Practi- cally the best light is that of an oil-lamp, burning with a clear and steady flame, covered only by a chimney-glass, and so arranged as to be raised or lowered at pleasure. A naked candle-fl ime may be used fur very susceptible patients, to reduce the dazzling to a minimum. With regard to the position of the light, it should be the rule of a beginner to place it near the head of the patient, on the same side as the eye to be examined, and so far back as to leave the cornea in shadow. It is also important that the flame, the eye of the jiatient, and the eye of the observer, sitould be all at the same level. For binocular ophthalmoscopes, as already men- tioned, it is necessary to have a vertical instead of a lateral illumination. Partly from the ready mobility of the burner, and partly because the intensity and size of the flame can be regulated at will, I am disposed to think that gas affords the best light for all ophthalmoscopic purposes. The most convenient br.icket is one that may be seen at the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, Moor- fields, and that possesses a universal movement, upwards, downwards, and to either side, while the chimney of its argand burner remains always jierpendicular. The burner itself may be either of metal or porcelain, but should be closed underneath by fine wire giuz;', to subdivide and regulate the OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 391 draught. There should be two taps, or, if only one, it should be remote from the flame, so as to check the pressure from the meter, and to prevent noise in combustion. These arrangements not only afford, above the blue part of the flame, a perfectly steady and motionless cylinder of white light, but they give the power of regulating the height of this cylinder at pleasure, and of placing it exactly in any desired position for any kind of examination. The next best arrangement is an upright moveable burner, made to stand upon a table, and connected with the gas-pipe by an elastic tube. The bracket with universal movement is, however, of such great general utility, that it cannot be too strongly recommended as an essential part of the fittings of the consulting room. It will be found invaluable for laryngoscopy, especially for the application of instruments to the larynx ; and it will greatly facilitate many procedures about the mouth, nostrils, and ears. There are probably few practitioners who have not experienced the difli- culty of getting any assistant to hold a light in the exact place where it is wanted. "Since," as Hasner has very forcibly remarked, " it is perfectly intelligible that the laity should be alarmed by being brought into a darkened chamber, by the use of artificial light in the daytime, and by the application of mysterious lenses and re- flectors, it is proper, even if fear be not expressed, in every case to avoid making a mystery of the nphtlialmoscope. More especially to timid patients the nature and objects of the examination should be first carefully' explained." The position of the lamp and of the patient being arranged, the latter must next be shown a point in the distance, behind the observer, at which he must look fixedly. As the anterior pole of the axis of the optic nerve corresponds to the outer third of the cornea, the fixing point for vision must be to the left side of the head of the observer when the left eye is examined, and vice, versa. If the patient, as for example in total blindness, be unable to direct his eye by the sense of vision, he may still often do so by muscular sense, if his own finger be placed in the position or direction towards which his eye should be turned. It is desirable to keep the patient as still as possible, and at the same time distant from the lamp ; and it is best when the eye can be opened wide without assistance. When it is necessary to hold the lids asunder the irritation often produces a considerable flow of tears, and makes the patient restless and unsteady. Special attention must be paid to the condition of the pupil of the eye examined. If this be much contracted, which, from the sudden influx of light, would usually be the case at the beginning of the examination, onlj' a small cone of rays will be admitted, and only a sm;dl portion of the retinal surface will be illuminated. In such cases the pupil must be dilated, either by covering the other eye, or by directing the patient to accommodate for his far point ; or, lastly, by the use of a mydriatic. Two grains of extract of belladonna, dissolved in n drachm of distilled water, will produce sufficient dilatation ; but the best mydriatic agent is the sulphate of atropia, for applying which Professor Donders recommends the following solutions : (1) Or. iv. in 5 i. aq. des:ill. (gr, j.-3 ij.) as a preparation for operations ; to avert threatened Ryiicchial, closed pupil, or prolapsus iridis ; and to