LIGATURE, 194 tlenian on the subject, tlmt there is no clanger of these ligatures cutting completely through the vessels, as some surgeons have apprehended; and that, although he has not yet ascertained what be- comes of the pieces of ligature after the wound is united, he has never seen abscess nor any other bad symptoms occasioned by them. At the time when Mr. Lawrence wrote, lie had employed this method of securing the arteries in ten or eleven amputations, in six operations on the breast, and in the removal of two testicles. The cases all did well, excepting a man who lost his thigh, and who died of an affection of the lungs. (See Lazvnince on a New Method of Tijinq the Arteries in Anctcn'sm, cjr., in Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 15G, &c. The foregoing method was tried by myself in several amputations, which I performed in 1815, at Brussels, and in a larger number of cases by my friend, Mr. Collier. Our ligatures, however, though small, were not so small as those judi ciously recommended by Mr. Lawrence; and, on this account, no accurate inferences can be drawn from our examples. This subject was noticed by Mr. Guthrie as follows :—" Some military surgeons, both French and English, have lately adopted the practice of cutting off both ends of the ligatures, close to the knot on the artery; uniting the parts, if pos- sible, over tliem, and allowing the knots to find their way out as they can. The edges of the wound, in some instances, have united thoroughly in a few days; and when the knots have come off the ends of the arteries, they have caused small abscesses to be formed, which point at the nearest external surface, and are discharged with little un- easiness. I know, that many cases, treated in this manner in the campaign of 1813, ended success fully, and healed in as short a time as the most favourable ones by the usual method ; and at Montpelier, in June 1814, Mons. Delpech, Pro- fessor of Surgery in that University, showed me at least twenty cases in which he had practised, and was still practising, this method with success, have seen, however, in two or three instances some ill-looking abscesses formed by them, and I sus- pect some disagreeable consequences will ensue if this practice be continued. " I consider this improvement as very valuable in all cases, that will not unite by the first inten- tion. The ligatures, if there be man)', form into ropes, are the cause of much irritation, and are frequently pulled away with the dressings: by cutting them off, these evils are avoided, and the knots will come away with the discharge," {On Gunshot Wounds, pp. 93, 94.) M. Ronx tried the plan in three operations on the breast : the cases did well; and no ill conse- quences arose from the presence of the bits o thread under the cicatrix. (Sec Relation d'ui Voyage fail <l Londrcs en 1814, on Parallcle do la Chirtirgie Angloise uvea la C'hirinyic Fran(,-oise, Paris, 1815, pp. 134—136.) Mr. Fielding, of Hull, admits that this method occasions less uti- tation in the first instance, than the usual mode of leaving one or two ends of silk attached to the knot, and bringing them out of the wound, and that union by the first intention is thus more cer- tainly effected; but he assures us that, in a great variety of cases, in which he 1ms adopted the practice, the knots of silk Averc not absorbed, and were ultimately thrown off unchanged, after a slow suppuration, attended with pain and irritation for several weeks or months. (See Edinli. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 341.) Ligatures of silk- worm-gut, according to his experience, do not lead to the above inconveniences. (See Amputation, Aneurism, and II^MoRniiAGE.) According to Mr. Listen, " Ligatures, of what- ever substance, do now and then remain hid for a long time ; but, very generally, they occasion trouble. Tliey, perhaps, after the cure has been thought complete, give rise to irritation, pain, in- flammatory swelling, and formation of matter; abscess after abscess ensues; one knot comes out after another; and ultimately all the offending bodies may be expelled ; but the perfect recovery is thus very long protracted. In all wounds, likely to heal at an early period, the one end of the ligature on the small vessels had best be cut off close to the knot, and the other left only of such length as to project but little from the siirface of the integuments. They should be brought out at one or other end of the incision, and, if possible, the whole, or the greater number, at the most de- pending extremity. In such wounds as it is not advisable, or possible to bring together, both ends of all the ligatures may be cut oft" close to the surface of the wound. {On Practical Surgery, p. 24, 8vo. Lend. 1837.) Dr. Reese also concurs with Mr. Guthrie. " Where resolution (says he) is not expected, nor desirable, the practice is less exceptionable; and in certain amputations and gunshot wounds, where the escape of these knots is easy from the exposed condition of the stump, this method may be safely adopted. But in wounds made by the surgeon for securing arteries, which are deep-seated, and where union by the first intention is often import- ant, the old method is greatly to be preferred. Some of the most distinguished surgeons in this country, after having repeatedly tried Mr. Law- rence's plan, with attention to all the minute particularity which he so judiciously enjoins, as regards the size and material of the ligature, have laid it aside altogether, and prefer always to leave the end of their ligatures hanging from the woimd or stump. Among these is Professor Mott, of New York." (See Reeseh Amer. cd. of this Dic- tionary, vol. ii. p. 130.) The method of cutting off both ends of tlie ligature close to the knot, may now be said to be generally abandoned, and only adopted in a few cases where the wound cannot be brought together, or must inevitably suppurate freelj'. The silkworm-gut, preferred by Mr. Fieldnig, was first suggested as an advantageous material for ligatures, by T)r. M'Sweeny, of Cork (_sce Edinh. Med. and SurgicalJouni.\-o].xiy.j).!iOt.); and I have great pleasure in here mentioning his claims to the proposal. Altliough, in the present state of surgery m England, less importance is attached to the mate- rials, thaii to the size, consistence, and form ol licatures, I deem it right to insert the remarks ot lig. Drs. Rec'se and .lamieson, of the United States, on what has been termed the annnal h.oature, " To our distinguished countryman, 1 roiessor Physick, of the University of Pennsyh^mia, IS undoubtedly due the honour of having first in- troduced, in 1814, what is known as the anmal ligature into surgical practice. His ligatures are