292 MERCURY. portions of the eruption lind united, and tlie papulffi were also rougli. But in those cases, which resemble urticaria, a number of minute vesicles, which contain a serous fluid, appear, from the commencement, interspersed among the papula;. Contrary to what hnppeus in most dis- eases accompanied with cutaneous affections, the febrile symptoms are much aggravated, and con- tinue to" increase after the eruption has been completed. The pulse in general beats from 120 to 130 in a minute, the thirst continues urgent, and the patient, extremely restless, seldom enjoys quiet sleep. When the eruption has continued in this manner for a certain period, the cuticle begins to peel oifin thin, whitish, scurfy exfoliations, not nnlike those observed in rubeola. This desqua- mation has not been attended to by Dr. Moriarty or Mr. Alley, if they have not, by giving the same name to the decrustation which occurs in the last stage, confounded both together. It commences in those places where the eruption first made its ap- pearance, and in this order spreads to other parts. About this period the fauces become sore, the tongue swells, and the eyes appear somewhat inflamed. "The duration of this stage is very various; sometimes it continues from ten to fourteen days, and in other cases it terminates in half_ that tune. When the disease has appeared in its mildest form, the patient recovers immediately after the desqua- mation, a new cuticle having formed underneath; butif severe, he has onlv experienced the smallest part of his sufferings, and the skin now assumes a new appearance, which I have considered as the second stage. -c » jj j " The skin at this period appears as if studded with innumerable minute vesicles, which are filled with a pellucid fluid. These vesicles may be ex- pected, if the pat'ent, at the close of the first stage, complains of increased itching and sense of buin- in^T heat in those parts from which the cuticular exfoliations have fallen. They remain somelimes for a day or two, but are most commonly burst, immedia'tely after their formation, by the patient rubbing them, in order to relieve the troublesome itcbiuBSS with which these parts are affected. They discharge a serous acrimonious fluid, which pos- sesses such a very disagreeable odour as to induce nausea in the patient himself, and those who approach near his bedside. The odour is so peculiar, that it can easily be recognised by any person who has once experienced it. "This fluid is poured out most copiously from the scrotum, groin, inside of the thighs, or wherever the skin forms folds, and the sebaceous glands are most numerous. The serous discharge from these minute vesicles form?, with the cuticle, an incrusta- tion, which may be considered as the third or last state. , , "These crusts are generally very large, and, when detached, retain the figure of the parts from which thev have fallen. Their colour is yellowish, but sometimes appears dark and dirty. Ihis period of the disease might be termed, I think, with much proprietv, the stage of decnistalion, in order to distinguish it more fully froin the dcsqiia- mation, which" lias been already noticed. From the use of the two last terms indiscriminately, those who have described the disease have introduced into their descriptions a degree of confusion which has caused its progress not to be well understood. When this stage appears, the fauces become more affected, the eyes intolerant of light, and the tarsi tender, inflamed, and sometimes inverted. The crusts formed on the face, as in other parts of the body, before falling off, divide asunder, so as to leave cracks and fissures, which produce a hideous expression of couuteuaucc; and the eyelids are also, from the general swelling of the face, com- pletely clo.sed. The back and liairy scalp are last aifected, and even in very severe cases, these parts are sometimes observed to escape entirely. The patient whilst in this state is compelled to desist from every kind of motion, on account of the pain which he experiences on the slightest exertion, and which he describes as if his flesh were cr.ack ing. The crusts .also fall oif in fuch abundance, tliat the bed appears as if strewed with the cones of hops. Whilst the eruption is only making its appearance in one place, another part may have arrived at its most advanced form; so that all the different stages of the disease may be present at one time in the same individual. It is attended with typhus through its entire course; but it is very curious to observe that the appetite for food in most cases remains unimpaired, and sometimes is even voracious. This circumstance was par- ticularly remarked in a patient who laboured under the disease, in its worst form, for the space of three months, in the Royal Infirmary of Edin- burgh, for double the usual hospital .allowance of food was scarcely sufficient to satisfy his hunger. When the catarrhal symptoms have coutiuued during the progress of the complaint, they are at this advanced period particularly aggravated: the anxiety and pain of the cliest are also very severe, attended witii cough and bloody expectoration, and the patient always feels languid and dejected. The pulse becomes frequent, feeble, and irregular, the tongue black and parclied, and at length diarrhcEa, delirium, convulsions, gangrene of the surface of the body, and death supervene. In its mild form it only goes through the first stoge, and terminates, as we have already stated, in a feu- days, by a slight desquamation. But when severe, it is often protracted more than two month?, every stage of the eruption continuing pp>portionably longer; and when, in this manner it has run its coiu-se, it repeatedly breaks out on the new surface, and passes through the same stages." (M'Mullin, in Edinb. Med. and Sury. Jouriia/, No. 5.) The remote cause is the employment of mer- cury. Dr. M-MuUin is inclined to believe, with Dr. Gregory, that the application of cold to the body while under the action of mercury is ab- solutely necessarv for its production, an opinion strengthened bv the constant prevalence of catar- rhal symptoms. However, Mr. Pearson thinks that cold has no concern in bringing on the com- plaint in patients under the influence of mercury. At the same time it merits particular attention, that the disease is not exclusively occasioned by mer- cury, either in its genernl or more partial attacks; it has been observed to follow exposure to co d, and to recur in the same individual, at irregular intervals, without any obvious or adequate cause. (lJutema,rs S,,nopsh, V 2-^6. ed. ;i; 7f««^'-, Ed>n^ Med. and Sun/. Joimi. vol. v. p. 14,1; MancI, m AM. Cliii: Tmm. vol. ii. art. 9.) In the early stage, Mr. Pearson recommends small doses of antimouial powder, with s.a ,ne draughts, or the .acetate of ammoni.a. A gentle purgative should be given every three or four d.ijs,