without pain/and with little htemorrhage, or linznid of any kind. Of the benign kind of polypus, tit for extraction, Mr. Pott notices two sorts, whose principal differ- ence from each other consists in their different origin or attachment. That which is most freely moveable within the nostril, upon forcible res- piration ; which has been found to be most liable to change in size at different times and seasons ; which has increased the most in the same space of time ; has its origin most commonly by a stalk or peduncle, which is very small, compared with the size of the polypus. The other, which, although plainly moveable, is much less so than the one just mentioned, which has been less liable to alteration from air and seasons, and which has been rather slow at arriving at a troublesome size, is most frequently an elongation of the membrane covering one of the ossa spongiosa. These latter may be extracted with no kind of hazard, and with very little pain and hsemorrhage : but the former require the least force, and mostly come away entire; while the others often break, come away piecemeal, and stand in need of the repeated use of the forceps. Mr. John Bell criticises the division of polypi into benign and malignant ones, and under the false impression that they are all of the same nature, declares that time, and the natural growth of the tumor, and the pressure it occasions within the soft and bony cells of the nostrils and jaws, must bring every polypus to one invariable form, in its last and fatal stage. Polypus, he admits, is indeed a dreadful disease; but, according to his views, it becomes so by a slow progression, and advances by gradations easily characterised. [The following description is so graphic, particularly of the more severe forms of the disease, that notwithstanding the erroneous pathology implied, it has been thought right to retain it.] Every polypus in its early stage is, according to this writer, a small moveable tumor, attended with a sneezing and watering of the eyes ; swelling in moist weather ; descending with the breath ; but easily repressed with the point of the finger. It is void of pain, and not at all alarming ; it may also be easily ex- tracted, so as to clear for a time the passage for the breath. Yet this little tumor, simple as it may appear, is the germ of a very fatal and loathsome disease, and this easy extraction often the very cause of its appearing in its most malignant form. The more easily it is extracted (says Mr. J. Bell), the more easily does it return ; and whether care- lessly extracted, or altogether neglected, it soon returns. But, when it does return, it has not really changed its nature ; it has not ceased to be in itself mild ; it is then to be feared, not from its malignity, but from its pressure among the delicate cells and membranes of the nose. It soon fills the nostrils, obstructs the breathing, and causes inde- scribable anxieties. The tears arc obstructed, and the eyes become watery from the pressure on the lachrymal sac ; the hearing is in like manner in- jured, by the pressure of the tumor against the mouth of the Eustachian tube; the voice is changed, and its resonance and tone entirely lost, by the sound no longer passing through the cells of the nose and face. The swallowing is in some degree affected by the soft palate being depressed by the tumor. The pains, arising from such slow and irresistible pressure, are unceasing. From the same TUS. 463 pressure, the hones become carious, and the cells of the face and nose are destroyed by the slow growth of the swelling. It is not long before the tumor begins to project from tlie nostril in front, and over the arch of the palate behind. One nostril becomes widened and thickened; the nose is turned towards the opposite side of the face, and the whole countenance seems distorted. The root of the nose swells, and becomes puffy, the features become tumid and flabby, the face yellow, and the parts round the eye livid. The patient is af- fected with headaches, which seem to rend the bones asunder, and with perpetual stupor and dozing. The bones are now absorbed, and the membranes ulcerate ; a foul and foetid matter, blackened with blood, being discharged from the nostrils, and excoriating them. The bloodvessels next give way, and sudden impetuous haemorrhages weaken the patient; the teeth fall from the sockets, and, through the empty sockets, a foul and foetid matter issues from the antrum. Now the disease verges to its conclusion. The patient has terrible nights, and experiences a sense of suffocation. The repeated loss of blood renders him so weak that he cannot quit his bed for se- veral days together; and when he does get up, he is (to use Mr. Bell's words) pale as a spectre, his lips colourless, and his face like wax, yellow and transparent. He now suffers intolerable pain, while his saliva is continually dribbling from his mouth, and a foetid discharge from his nose. In this state, he survives a few weeks ; during the last days of his illness, lying in a state of perpe- tual stupor, and dying lethargic. Mr. J. Bell afterwards observes, that "if horrid symptoms could establish the fact of malignity, there is not to be found in all nosology a more malignant dis- ease than this ; but aneurism, though it destroys the thigh-bone, the sternum, or the cranium, is not accounted malignant; neither is polypus ma- lignant, though it destroys the cells of the face, and penetrates even through the ethmoid bone to the brain. These consequences result merely from pressure." {John Bell's Principles of Surgert/, vol. iii. part 1. pp. 90—92.) That this talented writer erred in not recognising some polypi as fibrous or as originally cancerous, and of the nature of fungus hsematodes, or the medullary tumor, requires at the present day no observations of mine to render doubtless. In April 1817, there was a boy in St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital, only twelve years old, who fell a victim to the ravages of this form of disease. The tumor before death had expanded the upper part of the nose to an enormous size, while below the left nostril was immensely enlarged. The distance between the eyes was extraordinary, being more than four inches. The left eye was affected with amaurosis, brought on by the pressure of the swelling ; the right r&tained to the last the faculty of seeing. The tumor nearly covered the mouth, so that food could only be introduced with a spoon, and an examination of the state of the palate was impossible. About a fortnight before death, the legs became paralytic, and during the last week of the boy's existence, an incontinence of the urine and fajces prevailed. On examination of the head after death, a good deal of the tumor was found to be of a cartilaginous consistence, and, what was most remarkable, a portion of it, which was as large as an orange, extended within the cranium,