VENEREAL DISEASE 919 extinguished, is as ancient as the times of Fra- cnstorius:— Cum fata dahunt lahentlbm annli Tcmpus erit, cum node atra sopita jacebit interitu data. From the testimony of these and other writers, especially tliat of A. T. Petronius (lib. i. cap. 3) and B. Tomitani (lib. ii.), no doubt can be enter- tained that the severe, rapidly spreading, and frequently fatal disease, which broke out in Italy at the close of the fifteenth century, did not con- tinue many years with its original violence ; but changed so much as even to justify the opinion, defended by many able men, that it was a totally different disorder from any complaint now reputed to be venereal. And the historical fact of the gra- dual change in the nature of the disease, which broke out in the French array before Naples, at the close of the fifteenth century, might be taken as an' argument against its having been sypliilis by those who will not admit that the latter dis- ease has undergone any alteration of character. Amongst the moderns, Peyrilhe has denied the correctness of the doctrine that the nature of the venereal disease is changed : he treats of two sorts of change, or degeneration as it was termed—one general, the other particular. He denies the first, and maintains that the venereal disease is as de- structive now as in past times. As for the dege- neration of the poison in an individual, he admits it: " Perhaps (says he) spontaneous cures will be doubted; numerous facts attest them to those who know how to see, and we have tried to demonstrate tliem to others. For our own part we cannot doubt that the venereal poison becomes weaker and weaker in the infected person, becomes milder, and as it gets older loses its principal character, its property of communicating the disease." (See Re- mtide Nouveau, ^c. Montp. 1786.) It lias been a contested question whether the venereal disease and gonorrhoea arise from the same poison. Mr. Hunter acknowledges that the opinion of their originating from two distinct poi- sons seems to have some foundation, when the difference in the symptoms and method of cure is considered. But he asserts that if this question be taken up on other grounds, and experiments be made, the result of which can be safely depended upon, this notion will be found to be erroneous. As the arguments of Mr. Hunter, in support of the doctrine that both diseases are produced by the same virus, arc noticed in the article GoNOR- liHtEA, I shall not here repeat them. On the other hand, Mr. B. Bell relates experi- ments from which the conclusion is made that the poisons of the venereal disease and gonorrhoea are entirely dilTerent and distinct. Matter was taken upon the point of a probe from a chancre on the glans penis, before any application was made to it, and completely intro- duced into the urethra. For the first eight days, the gentleman who made this experiment felt no kind of uneasiness; but, about this period, he was attacked with pain in making water. On dilating the urethra as much as possible, nearly the whole of a large chancre was discovered, and, in a few days, a bubo formed in each groin. No discharge took place from the urethra during the whole course of the disease ; but another ch:incrc was soon perceived in the opposite side of the urethra. and red-precipitate was applied to it, as well as to the other, by means of a probe previously moist- ened for the purpose. Mercurial ointment was at the same time rubbed on the outside of each thigh, by which a profuse salivation was excited. The buboes, which, till then, had continued to in- crease, became stationary, and at last disappeared entirely; the chancres became clean, and, by a due continuance of mercurj', a complete cure was at last obtained. If this case, and another to which I shall presently advert, could be entirely de- pended upon, thej' would tend to disprove the part of Mr. Hunter's theory accounting for the diffe- rent effects of the same poison by its application; in the case of chancre, to a non-secreting surface, covered with cuticle, and that of gonorrhcea to a secreting mucous membrane. The occasional for- mation of chancre just within the orifice of the urethra, is now recognised as not a very uncommon event. The next experiment was made with the matter of gonorrhoea, a portion of which was introduced between the prepuce and glans, and allowed to remain there without being disturbed. In the course of the second day, a slight degree of in- flammation was produced, succeeded by a dis- charge of matter, which, in the course of two or three days, disappeared. The same experiment was repeated ; but no chancre ever ensued from it. Two medical students were anxious to ascertain the point in question ; and, with this view, they made the following experiments, at a time when neither of them had ever laboured under either gonorrhoea or syphilis; and both in these and in the preceding experiments, the matter of infection was taken from patients who had never made use of mercury. A small dossil of lint, soaked in the matter of gonorrhosa, was by each of them inserted between the prepuce and the glans, and allowed to remain on the same spot for the space of twenty-four hours. From this it was expected that chancres would be produced ; but, in one, a very severe degree of inflammation ensued over the whole glans and prjeputium, giving all the appearance of what is usually termed gonorrhcea preputialis. A considerable quantit}' of fetid matter was dis- charged from the surface of the inflamed parts, and for several days there was reason to fear that an operation would be necessary for the removal of a paraphimosis. By the use of saturnine poultices, la.xatives, and low diet, however, the in- flammation abated, the discharge ceased, no chancre took place, and the case got entirely well. In the other gentleman, says Mr. B. Bell, the external inflammation was slight, but in consequence of the matter finding access to the urethra, he was attacked on the second day with a severe gonor- rhoea, with which he was troubled for more than a year. The next experiment was made by the friend of the latter student: he inserted the matter of gonorrhoea, with a lancet, beneath the skin of the prajputium and likewise into the substance of the glans ; but, although this was repeated three diffefent times, no chancres ensued. A slight de- gree of inflammation was excited ; but it soon disappeared, without anything being done for it. His last experiment was attended with more serious consequences. The matter of a chancre