1"-"'' WOUNDS Injuries of the 'thorax are discussed in tliis vol. Woimds of the Ahdomen may he of an incised, punctiu-ed, contused, or lacerated character, and are attended with much danger and many scriou!, complications. Punctured wounds are peculiarly anxious, as it is frequently difficult to recognise tlieir extent ; they are specially subject to complica- tions, and are generally very difficult to manage. Such wounds are met with in civil and military practice as inflicted by a large variety of instni mentp. Wounds of the abdomen maj- implicate tlie parietes alone, or [leniftrating these injure the contents of the cavity. The fear of peritonitis is of course the chief risk in all wounds of the abdo- men, yet the risk attending even extensive incised wounds (as in ovariotomy) is not so grievous as was at one time apprehended. When any of the viscera contained in the belly are wounded the daneer is enormously augmented, both on account of the bleeding, which is almost certain to fdllow such lesions, and the violent inflanunation which is set «p if any of the secretions from these organs are effused into the sac of the peritoneum. Urine, hile, and fasces act most powerfully as irritants, iind the inflammation they occasion is both rapid in its progress and intense in its violence. Nmi-penetratvig ivounds present no characters which are so special as to demand particular de- scription, nor does their treatment call for any remarks, as they are to be managed on thegenenil principles fully described in this paper. It is true that in former times these wounds were supposed to be very dangerous, and that chiefly on account nl the extensive tendinous structures in the parietes. No special fear is now excited by such wounds. Having removed foreign bodies and commanded bleeding—enlarging the wound if necessary to do so—inflammation, if it arise, is to be combated, pus is to be evacuated; adhesion between the lips of the wound promoted by plaster or sutures, and above all by position and bandages; and if sinuses form thej- must be obliterated by pressure or split open. Great care must be taken not to imprison pus in the depths of a wound whose lips are got to adhere. In opening abscesses or laying open sinuses we should strive to weaken the parietes little as possible, so as to leave no point whereat subsequent protrusion can take place. Sometimes the pus lies within the sheath of the rectus, and may take very long to work its way to the surface, then it must be evacuated by an early and dependent opening. If pus burrow among the muscles of the abdomen, serious constitutional disturbance may arise and most troublesome and dangerous sinuses form. The onl)- true remedy is early incision. In tbe treatment of wounds implicating the walls, quietness and rest of body, simple food, a good position, and possibly opium, are our chief re- sources. Wounds penetniliug ilie ahdomen maj' simply tiaverse the walls, or may wound some of the viscera, and, of course, the features and result of the case will accordingly vary enormouslj'. It is by no means easy in man}' instances to .say whether tiie viscera have escaped or not, especiallj- as it is opposed to the rules of practice to make any prolonged or minute search in such a case. If any viscus is seen protruding and wounded, or if the contents or secretion ol any special organ is observed to escape, or if the symptoms appear clearly /eferablc to interference with the function of any viscus, or even if violent ha:morrhiige take place from the interior of the abdomen, outwards by the wound, upwards by the mouth, or down- wards through the bowel, then we can be sure there is some serious visceral lesion ; but it is right to add that the absence of such evidence as has been hinted at does not justify us in all cases in concluding that no fuch injury has occurred. Further, the apparent direction of the wound, the nature of the weapon and the seeming depth of its penetration, while they are all impor- tant and often most significant points for considera- tion, do not enable us to conclude positively whether any organ, or what organ, has been wounded. Such data give us only elements from which a presumption more or less plausible may be founded. Such at least has been tlie author's experience both in military and civil practice. In examining wounds penetrating the abdomen the finger should be alone used. Metallic probes are of no service, and may do much damage, and in conducting such examinations the patient should be placed as nearly as possible in the same posture he occupied when he was wounded, while perfect gentleness should be exercised. If no inflamma- tion arise, and no evidence of visceral implication occur, the wound should be looked on and treated as a simple one of the parietes, any subsequent complication which may present itself being treated as required. If any of the viscera protrude, or be wounded, then the case becomes much more grave. It will of course depend on the position, and also to some extent on the size of the wound, what viscus may be involved. It is the small intestine, the omen- tum, the transverse colon and the stomach, which are most liable to escape, as their attachments are looser than those of other abdominal organs. Hccmorrhage, extravasation, and peritonitis are of course greatly to be apprehended when any of the solid or hollow viscera are wounded. Any bleeding vessel must be secured, the rent in a hollow organ sewed, and the protruded portions restored to their containing cavity in the reverse order to their escape. Care must be taken to insure their return into the abdomen, and that they are not forced between any of the layers of the parietes. It occasionally happens that a considerable mas is forced out through so narrow an outlet that the neck of the protrusion becomes grasped tightly and may even be strangulated. To facilitate their re- turn such a position is to be sought as will most relax the tension of the edges of the aperture, and then gentle means are used to reduce the protrusion hy first drawing it a little outwards to disengage it, and then cautiously pressing it back within the cavity. If distended with flatus, we can by gentle manipulation generally relieve it by pressing it little by liitle into the interior of the holly, or if such measures totally fail, and the ihuus lie the cause of the irreducibility, then the plan followed by Piirc and Peter Lowej of puncturing the bowel with a groved needle, may be had recourse to. Occasioiuilly it is requisite to enlarge the wound to allow of reduction, but this should be very spar- ingly done, and in such a direction as, while it will coincide with the run of the muscular fibres