801 UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OF there will be, in tlie commencement of the proliip- SU3 uteri, three diipliciitiires: 1. A central portion invayinated, which is the uterus ; 2. Two folds, or reflections of the vagina. In a later stage, when the invagination is complete, tliere are only two duplicatures, as in a prolapsus of the rectum; viz, the central part of which is the uterus that has passed into the inverted vagina. However, in the most complete prolapsus, some vestige of the se- cond diiplicatiu-e, formed by the vagina, is con- stantly met with in the furrow of greater or lesser depth, situated behind the swelling ; for though the inversion of the anterior paries of the vagijia may be complete, that of the posterior paries is scarcely ever so. Hence, the tumor, caused by prolapsus uteri, is always longer in the vertical direction in front than it is behind." Another point explained by Cruveilhier is, that in consequence of the relations of the peritoneum with the posterior surface of the uterus and the back part of the vagina, the peritoneum descends nmch lower in this situation than between the uterus and vagina in front. Hence, the anterior cul-de-sac of the peritoneum is generally too in- considerable to admit th« small intestines into it, ■while the posterior one may receive an enormous mass of them. It is under such circumstances that the prolapsus may form a swelling as large as a man's head. One thing well deserving of attention is the greater or less deformity of the os tincse; one of its lips, usually the posterior one, according to Cru. veilhier, being very prominent, while the anterior one is effaced. In one case observed by this dis- titiguished pathologist, the orifice, instead of the greater diameter of it being transverse, extended i-oin before backwards. In some instances, the OS tinea; was reduced to a very diminutive aperture, scarcely large euough for the discharge of the menstrual fluid. (See Cruveilhier, Anat. Pathol t. ii. livr. 26.) The continual irritation of the inverted van-ina occasions, 1. A transformation (incomplete) of°the mucous into a cutaneous texture. 2. Sloughs more or less deep in the lowest portion of the tumor, consisting of the neck of the uterus. If such sloughing were to implicate all the thickness of tlie parietes of the vagina and the peritoneal covering of them, air might insinuate itself into the cavity of the peritoneum and the uterus, and even the bowels protrude, if the latter were contained in the tumor; peritonitis might also ensue. Some- times the OS tinea; is obliterated from the effects of the irritation. Cruveilhier expresses his surprise that cancer of the cervix is not more frequent than it is, as a conseqiu;nce of prolapsus ; he has seen but one instance of it from this cause. (See Cruveilhier Anat. Pathol, livr. xvi, t. i. pi. 5.) The rectum, which is less adherent to the va- gin;i, and more fixed in its natural sitiuition than the lower part of the bladder, is seldom displaced; and, when it is so, it is only for a small extent; in fact, it could not be displaced in the same degree ns the bladder, unless the inversion of the posterior paries of tlie vagina were as considerable as that of the anterior. In one case referred to by M. Cru- veilhier, where there was an incontinence of fioces, the rectum, which was dilated and full of I'iecal Jtlatter, had been drawn fcu'wards rather above its lower terjuination, and it formed a kind of funnel- •haped prolongation. In the examide, of which vol,, u. M. Cloquet has given a reprcstintation, the rectum was much dilated, and sent forwards a consider- able digital prolongation, which extended into the posterior and inferior portion of the sac, formed by the inverted vagina. Here, then, as Ciuveilhier observes, we see that there are incontinences of ficces par regorgemenl, as well as of urine. The sphincter being kept for a long time distended, at length ceases to resist the discharge of portions of excrement separated from the mass of it. M. Cruveilhier, in noticing the frequent entrance of the bowels into the pouch formed by the in- verted vagina, informs us that he has not had an opportunity of seeing this in the dead subject, but he met with an instance of it in the living body. Although Mauriceau, Saviaid, Monro, and Cru- veilhier record instances of prolapsus uteri in maidens, such cases are not conniion. At the Bloomsbury Dispensary, I have seen two examples in the course of seven or eight years. The disease is seldom met with except in women who have had children, and generally in those who have borne a great many. This particularity is ascribed by some writers to th« elongation of the ligaments of the uterus in women, in whom this organ has been repeatedly gravid. The same consideration may also account for the frequency of prolapsus uteri during the first months subsequent to partu- rition, especially as the womb remains for some time after labour more enlarged and heavy than natural. The disease is more common in thin than fat women, and often takes place in females when they suddenly change from a fat to a very ema- ciated state. The displacement is facilitated by a capacious vagina, by a great width of the lesser cavity of the pelvis, and the effects of tedious and profuse attacks of fluor albus. Prolapsus uteri has also been brought on by violent con- cussions of the body; the protracted efforts of vomiting, coughing, or crying, hard labour, and lifting or carrying heavy burdens. In what has been stated, one may discern the reason why the affliction is so frequent amongst the lower classes of society, and why women, for a certain time after parturition, should avoid an erect posture and every kind of e-xertion. The incomplete prolapsus alone is subject to obscurity, which, however, may be dispelled by manual examination. In this ease, however, some precautions are necessary. For instance, as the womb generally returns into its natural situation when the patient lies down, the e.vamination should ilways be made as she is standing up. For the iame reason, if she is in the habit of lying lono- in bed, the morning is not the best period of the day for the examination. The practitioner nviv also be deceived if he examine the parts when the rectum and bladder are distended with their con- tents, in which state the uterus may be hindered from descending so far as at other periods. If attention be paid to these circumstances, an incomplete prolapsus may always be distinguished without risk of error. However, the records of surgery prove that the case has sometimes been mistaken by the inexperienced or ignorant for a polypus, and the part extirpated under this sup. position. So serious a blunder will be avoided, if caro be taken to remember that polypi are gene- rally softer and less sensible than the uterus; that in a case of prolapsus the os tinea; is situated at the lower part of the swelling ; and that if W 3 L '