6-26 article Fracture. The use of these kinds of apparatus has here superseded common splints, STAPHYLOMA. tous. Of the numerous varieties of staphyloma, and the eighteen-tailed bandage in the treatment of such accidents. As splints are generally composed of hard ma- terials, the bad effects of their pressure upon the skin must always be counteracted by placing a Bufficient quantity of tow, wool, oaten chaff, bran, flannel, or other soft substance, between them and the limb. • • i In order to understand, however, the principles ■which guide the surgeon in the choice and appli- cation of splints, many remarks, offered in the article Fracture, may be consulted. SPONGIA PRiEPARATA. (Prepared Sponge: Sponge-tent.) Formed by dipping pieces of sponge in hot melted emplastrum cer£e compo- situm, and pressing them between two iron plates. As soon as cold, the substance thus formed may be cut into pieces of any shape. It was formerly much used for dilating" small openings, for which it was well adapted, as, when the wax melted, the elasticity of the sponge made it expand and distend the opening. However, the best modern surgeons seldom employ it. STAFF. An instrument of considerable im- portance in lithotomy, being in fact the director for the gorget or knife. It is made of steel, and its handle is generally rough, in order that it may be more securely held. As it is intended to be in- troduced through the urethra, its shape ought to be piincipally determined by the patural course of that passage. English surgeons generally em- ploy a staff, the curvature of which forms the seg- ment of a larger circle than that formed by tlie curvature of a staff used by French practitioners. (See Roua, Voyage fait a Loyidres en 1U14, ou Parallele de la Chirurgie Angloise, i'C. p. bl9.) In other words, the French staff turns more up- wards than ours, as it approaches and enters the bladder. There may be some advantage in this construction, inasmuch as it Jtends to make the gorget enter in the direction of the long axis of the bladder; yet, a great deal more seems to me to depend upon the position in which the staff is held than upon its shape. Lilhotomists should always employ as large a staff as can be easily introduced, because the operation will thereby be facilitated. The groove, the most important part of the staff, is of course situated upon the convexity of the curved part of the instrument, or upon that portion, which, when introduced, lies in the membranous part of the urethra, prostate gland, and the bladder. It should always be made very broad and deep, as recommended by Langeubeck, Martineau, and others. (See Lithotomy.) The termination of the groove, at the end of the instrument, should be closed, so as to stop the further entrance of the gorget, and prevent the beak of the latter instru- ment from doing mischief. Some former surgeons, who neglected this precaution, have been censured by Desault and Sabatier, for certainly the most fatal injury may be caused by the gorget slipping beyond the end of the staff. (See Lithotomy, in which article the various kinds of staff have been fully described.) STAPHYLOMA signifies an anomaly of cur- vature of the tunics, or an abnormal bulging of some portion of the eyeball perceplible to the naked eye. Most portions of the tunics of tiie eyeball have been observed to become staphyloma- those of the cornea, or occupying the place of the cornea, are the most frequent. A fresh protrusion of one of the tunics, e. g. of the posterior elastic lamina of the cornea, or of the iris or retina, &c., through an ulcer or a wound, is termed a hernia or prolapse. If coated over with lymph, or if cicatrised and still protruding, it is termed a staphyloma. Among anomalies of curvature of the cornea, we distinguish: 1. The globular cornea. 2. The conical cornea. 3. A staphylomatous condition of an opaque or nebulous cornea, caused through in- flammatory changes, ulcers, &c. 4. Staph) loma- tous cicatrices occupying the place of portions or of the entire cornea, caused through a cicatrised pro- lapse of the iris. In the sclerotic we distinguish—the ciliarj', the equatorial, and the posterior staphyloma. The first may occupy any portion of the ciliary region, i. e. of the tunics of the eyeball between the margin of the cornea and a line passing through the ocular insertion of the recti-muscles. The posterior staphyloma generally occupies the region of the yellow spot, or of the tunics surround- ing the optic disc. Staphylomatous conditions of an opaque or ne- bulous cornea may be caused through inflammatorj' changes, ulcers occurring in the course of inherited syphilis, measles, scarlatina, variola, &c., or follow- ing injuries or operations on the cornea. Syphi- litic corneitis and pannus may give rise to rapid staphylomatous changes, the whole of the softened corneal tissue giving way under the pressure of the aqueous humour. Vision in these cases varies according to the degree of opacity, of alteration of curvature of the cornea, and especially of disturbance of the nudia and of the retina. Some patients, if the opacity is but slight, com- plain of weakness of sight ; others of being near- sighted ; others of objects appearing distorted. Only distinction of colour or quantitative perception of light may exist, though the staphylomatous cornea may seem but slightly nebulous. (For treatment, see Cornea.) . , i r Staphylomatous cicatrices occupying the place ot portions or of the entire cornea. They generally originate in the following manner:—A portion ot cornea of varying size having been destroyed by ulceration, suppuration, &c., the ms, after the escape of some aqueous humour, comes to He against the opening in the cornea, and undergoes adhesion with its margins; while the granul.^tions Ivmph &c., thrown out on the exposed surface ot the iris change into more or less opaque tissue. Thus part of the place of the cornea is occupied by iris covered with a cicatrix. The rapidity with which this cicatrix forms, its strength, and the nature of the treatment, influence the formation and size of the staphyloma. Its sur- face is frequently uneven or sprinkled with po - tions of urea. It may be extremely thin, portions „f it may be nearly transparent, and appear bla k -myoceplialon-from the interior of the eje shini^ng through. In other cases 't «my be con- siderablv thicker than the cornea. Its suilace, u :^':u^i exposed to the esi^cia^ y sleep becomes covered with dry epithelial scales Beneath the epithelium we may find counec iv tissuT, or tissue resembling that of the cornea, but