. often much aggravated by loss of blood, niul a ■ly scanty diet actually m;ikes the patient more il'ile to some kinds of inflammation. Onr mode practice ou^ht to be rather to sustani his ■ A'ers by allowing him wholesome nourishment, ,i,,d not to add to the influence of the other de- pressing causes, the still worse one of starvation. The general management of this disease after the formation of purulent deposits has commenced, is probably as little satisfactory as any that come under the notice of the surgeon. The whole course of the disease is characterised by what has been aptly designated "action without power." The excitement of the system will imitate all the acts of genuine inllammation, without any of its healthy°result9, and loss of energy will^ appear immediately after, or even arise in conjunction with, the first symptoms of increased action. " What treatment," says Cruveilhier, " shall we oppose to purulent infection ? To this question experience is as yet dumb, while the various reme- dies to which theory would seem to point have failed as signally in my hands as in those of others ; yet, when the injection of putrid matters into the veins of li /ing animals has been followed by abundant and very foetid evacuations, they have frequently got well." Cruveilhier conceived " that diseases resulting from purulent infection would not be stamped with the seal of incurability, and that nature, seconded by art, would triumph in the majority of cases if the pus, which is inces- santly renewed, did not incessantly renew the sources of infection." In accordance with this remark, M. Gaspard found that animals which re- covered after the injection of a certain quantity of pus into their veins, often died when the experi- ment was repeated. The recovery was usually preceded by black, liquid, and extremely fetid evacuations, which often seemed to afford immediate relief. Dr. Polli, of Milan, has very recently published a monograph upon the diseases arising from puru- lent or putrid absorption and their treatment. Havin" shown by various quotations and observa- tions fsome of which were original) that many maladies have for their cause a fermentation of the constituents of the blood—sometimes deter- mined by putrescible materials, or by ferments in- troduced from without, sometimes by spontaneous alterations of the materials of the blood itself, originated by the particular influences to which the°organism was subject—he proceeds to take a narrower and more precise position, and to iden- tify the supposed causes with the given species of disease, by producing artificially those maladies by the introduction into the blood of certain morbific ferments. The summary conclusion of bis experiments is, that with the injection into the circulation of the morbid materials indicated, we can artificially pro- duce certain grave and well pronounced maladies, which shall exactly possess the general characters of diseases due to morbid ferments. From this synthetical study of disease, he asks whether, if it be granted that the starting point of the morbid phenomena be due to tiie action of a specific ferment in the blood, it is possible to impede its oll'ects, render it inactive, or neutralize it in the living organism ? It is well known that the eminent French physiologist Bernard, while he ebtabiishcs the fact PYiEMlA. 507 that such fermentations can take place in the blood, holds that " the neutralisation of ferments is viipossihle, because, to do this, the properties of the blood would be changed to such a degree that life would be no longer possible." Ur. Polli's efforts are directed to establish the doctrine that the neutralisation of morbid ferments in the blood of living animals can be_ effected without altering it in a manner incompatible with life. Many substances possessed of anti-fermentative or anti-catylitic properties are known, but these possess such poisonous or caustic qualities as to render them inapplicable. Dr. Polli shows that sulphurous acid, in combination with the bases of alkalis or alkaline earths, possesses these powers in a marked degree, and can be used to almost any extent. Herein, then, lies the gist of Dr. Polli's discovery, and it rests upon the results obtained from 70 experiments, of which he cites IG of the more important, in an appendix to his memoir. His observations go to show that, by the addi- tion of sulphites to the substances used for injec- tiim, we may prevent their injurious action ; that if we inject a morbific agent, we may neutralise its effects by the administration beforehand of the sulphites as proph)'lactic3 ; and that by their use, when the morbid ferment is already present in the blood, we may anticipate similar results. Dr. Polli's experiments seem to have been well designed and carefully performed, and they are ofttimes crucial in their nature. Some of the re- sults are conflicting, as might be anticipated, when we consider the great difficulties attending the subject; indeed, it is scarcely possible to keep the effects of a thrombosis and embolism separate from those of the blood poisoning, and in some of the cases described, the amount of the sulphites used was insufficient for attaining their full therapeutio action. There seems to be great unanimity of opinion among the Italian physicians and surgeons, as to the therapeutic properties of these agents, both as local applications to unhealthy sores, in which they arrest the foetor, diminish the pain, and promote liealthy action, and as internal remedies. The results obtained by the ordinary treatment of diseases of the type under consideration are so lamentable, that we cannot avoid hailing any aid with gladness which is put forward upon plausible reasoning, and attested by a fair amount of evidence. But clinical experience alone must test the value of this as compared with otiier plans of treatment. In one of his pamphlets. Dr. Polli has recorded the experiments made upon himself, and another individual, with the view of defining the doses tolerated by the system, and of indicating their physiological action. In the period of four days each of them con- sumed 50 grammes of sulphite of magnesia with- out inconvenience. Dr. Polli states that so large a dose as 4 grammes could be taken with so littlu inconvenience that lie has no doubt that it mif^ht have been augmented to 6 or G grammes, if re- quired. From chemical observations made upon the ex- cretions, lie found tliat the sulphites are abstirbed ;i3 such, and pass out by the kidm-ys. While t-ome of these salts pass out of the system un- changed, the remainder are excreted as sulphates,