592 SKIN, DISEASES OF, skin must be conducted on those general therapeutic principles, which govern the treatment of all other diseases to which the body is liable. In cu- taneous diseases there are two principal objects which demand our attention:—firstlj', there is the local affection, and secondlj', there is the general condition of the patient; the management of the first of these constitutes the local or cutaneous treatment, the second the constitutional or bodily treatment. The local treatment, which in the eyes of the patient is always the most important, because the more pressing and urgent, is often, in reality, the most serious in the judgment of the physician; the local disease may be grave while the constitu- tional disturbance is slight; whereas in other in- stances the local disease may be consequent upon constitutional derangement, and will get well spontaneously as soon as the bodily functions are properly regulated. It will be our business, there- fore, to learn which of the two is the dominant evil; and while we do equal justice to both, we must so regulate our resources as to secure the readiest and the most complete cure for our patient. To treat with success, and upon correct princi- ples, the local affection, we must determine the present condition of the disease. There may be active inflammation, requiring the application of cooling and soothing remedies; inflammation ori- ginally active may have become passive, or con- tinued, or have assumed the character of inflam- matory irritability, in which case, our remedies must belong to the restorative, the tonic, or the mildly stimulant class; or, the inflammation may be persistent and chronic, and call for the use of alteratives and stronger stimulants, to change the existing action, to induce a more active vitality, and to excite the vis medicatrix to a healthy restoration. So also in reference to the constitutional treat- ment; any function that upon careful examination may be found in disorder must be set right; the digestive organs which prepare the food for the operations of the nutritive functions, the nutritive functions themselves, the organs concerned in se- cretion and excretion, the vitalizers and the propellers of the circulating stream, and those great agents of power the nerves and the nervous system, must all be regulated as far as we are able, and brought into a state which is most conducive to harnionious action, and to the speedy confirmation of health. We may therefore inquire—"What are our appliances for the attainment of the objects which we have in view ? What are our local, and ^yhat our constitutional means ? and having determined what these means are, we may further inquire- In what manner they are to be employed ; how they are to be used generally; and how in par- ticular instances ? The local treatment is intended for the allevia- tion of those conditions of the diseased organ which give rise to inconvenience and suffering; they may be :—inflammation of an acute or chronic type, pain, burning heat, pruritus, moist or desicciited discharges, or dry exuvia; in the form of scales of various degrees of thickness and size. The local remedies at our disposal for the relief of these conditions are :—rest, position, lotions, fomentations, poultices, cooling and absorbent powders, ointments, liniments, soaps, and caustics. Ill some cutaneous aflfcctions, and amongst others in erysipelas, eczema in an acute stage or affect- ing a large extent of surface or the lower extremi- ties, in pemphigus acutus, purpura hajmorrhagica, general rupia, erythema nodosum of the limbs, and erythema oedematosum, the repose of bed may be necessarj'. Anil in cases where confinement to bed is not absolutely needed, the diseased part, particularly if the lower limb, may require the support of position or of a well-adjusted bandage, or of both these means conjoined. The lotions adapted for the inflammatory stage of cutaneous diseases, are :—the cooling and evapo- rating lotions, such as that containing alcohol or ether ; the sedative lotions, for example, a weak solution of bicarbonate of soda, or sesqui-car- bonate of ammonia, a drachm to the eight ounces ; the liquor plumbi lotion, or that containing tincture of opium or belladonna ; or, when the epidermis is dry and parched, a lotion of glycerine. A piece of thin washleather saturated with water, and lightly spread on the inflamed skin, quickly re- duces the heat of the part, whilst with a similar purpose Devergie contrived an apparatus for effect- ing the irrigation of the inflamed integument, and speaks highly of its success in inflammatory eczema. In the chronic form of inflammation, and where pruritus is the distinguishing symptom, and the surface dry and parched, the gljxerine lotion is again useful, or an antipruriginous lotion, such as that of hydrocyanic acid, of chloroform, of perch loride of mercury, of carbolic acid, or, best of all, of the pyroligneous oil of juniper. Or, if the intention be to stimulate the diseased skin to a more energetic action, a sulphur lotion, as in the case of acne; a lotion of nitrate of silver; a strong lixivium of potash in chronic eczema, or the tincture of croton, first recommended by ourselves many years since. Fomentations are serviceable where a hot, dry, inflamed and painful surface is to be soothed, or where desiccated secretions are to be softened and removed. In this case we may employ simple water or emollient infusions or decoctions, lor example, infusion of linseed, or decoctions of oat- meal, wheaten starch, bran, or poppyheads. Hebra has lately introduced a permanent fomentation in the form of a bed suspended in water ; this apparatus admits of the patient being immersed in heated water of an uniform temperature for any required length of time, and the inventor finds it of great use in the treatment of small-pox, and extensive burn or scald. This permanent warm bath is most aRreeable to the sensations of the sufferer, and Hebra has been enabled to keep a patient constantly immersed for several weeks together; for example, through the entire course of small-pox, and until the complete cure of a severe burn. Poultices.—The lighter species of poultice are alone applicable to cutaneous affections, for ex- ample, and first in order and value, water-dressing; then starch poultice, rice flour poultice, poultice of potato starch, broad poultice, the spongio-piline saturated with simple water or some sedative decoction, oil poultice, and yeast poultice. Dr. Alison introduced a few years since a water-dres- sing, remarkable for its lightness and easy appli- cation, namelv, a thin lamb-skin, made mpernic- able to moisture on one side by means of a varnisti of caoutchouc. Poultices are especially valuablo in softening and removing crusts formed by desio