PUPIL. 495 portion of the cornea is so small that no opening c;iu be made in it with the knife, large enougli to peiniit the iiis to be taken iiold of with a small hook or forceps, and a piece of it cut out above the ciliary processes. b.ii. p.200.) The reason here given does not appear to me very strong, be- cause it may be asked, why not acquire more roimi by cutting a portion of the opaque part of the cornea? Weller assigns a better reason against coiectomia, viz. when he refers to the risk of a sufficient piece of the cornea not being left trans- parent, opposite the new pupil, after the cicatrisa- tion of that membrane. (Vol. ii. p. 65.) Beer fur- ther states that coiectomia may be performed, in cases of atresia iridis consequent to the operation of extracting the cataract, when the surgeon is certain that no coagulating lymph, effused during the previous inflammation in the posterior cham- ber, reaches above the lesser circle of the uvea, or is conjoined with opacity of the remaining cap- sule of the lens. The first state may be learned from the singular colour and form of the greater ring of the iris; the second, from the very indis- tinct manner in which the patient is sensible of the different degrees of light, {Beer, b. ii. p. 200.) The excision of a piece of the iris, says Beer, re- quires the prelimin.-iry formation of a flap in the cornea, one line in length, with the cataract-knife, and as close as possible to the sclerotica, so that no subsequent opaque cicatrix may interfere with the success of the operation. The second part of the business, viz. the excision of a piece of the iris, must be done in three ways, accordiilg to circum- stances: 1. The iris may not be any where adherent to the cornea, in which case, after an opening has been made in the latter membrane, the iris is pro- pelled out between the edges of the wound by the aqueous humour, yet left in the posterior chamber, which opportunity the surgeon must immediately avail himself of for taking hold of the projecting piece of the iris with a very fine hook, and cutting it off with Daviel's scissors; the remainder of the iris is instantly retracted behind the cornea, and a well- formed pupil is immediately seen, 2. Only the part of the edge of the pupil may remain not ad- herent to and drawn towards the cornea, where it is intended to form the artificial pupil ; a state best ascertained by a lateral inspection of the eye. In this case, after opening the cornea, Beer says, the operator is directly to introduce a small hook between the iris and cornea, so as not to injure either of these parts with its point, and he is then, with the instrument directed obliquely, to get hold of the pupillary edge of the iris, and, while the iris is drawn out between the edges of the incision, the projecting piece is to be cut off with Daviel's scis- sors. Thus, the natural pupil is to be extended behind the tiansparent part of the (wrnea, towards the edge of this membrane. 3. Tlie pupillary edge of the iris may be adherent to the cornea exactly in the situation where the artificial pupil is to be formed : in this case. Beer directs the ins to be taken hold of at its greater circle with the hook, or (if this should tear its way out) with a pair of fine-pointed forceps with teeth, drawn out between the edges of the wound, and the point ol the cone, thus produced, cut off somewhat within the edges of the wound, as drawing the iris further out misjht tear it, and have u prejudicial effect. In all these cases, siiys B< er, the uiidiseased lens and its capsule will not be injured, if the patient keep tolerably steady, and the operator have already acquired dexterity in the extraction of the cataract. Wlien coiectomia is to be performed for a closure of the pupil, consequent to extraction of the cata- ract, Beer particularly recommends the forceps to be used, though he adds that such operation is ap- plicable only when the remaining capsule has not been spoiled by inflammation, and the quantity of lymph in the posterior chamber is not so great as to reach above the lesser circle of tlie uvea. The only other species of coiectomia which I deem it necessary to notice, is what was proposed in the year 1811, by the late Mr. Gibson, of Man- chester. It is described as follows: " The first step of the operation is to secure the eyelids, as in the operation lor extracting a cataract. A puncture i8_ then to be made in the cornea, with a broad cornea knife, within a line of the sclerotica, to the extent of about three lines. All pressure is now to be removed from the eye-ball, and the cornea knife gently withdrawn. The consequence of this is, that a portion of the aqueous humour escapes, and the iris falls into contact with the opening in the cornea, and closes it like a valve, A slight pres- sure must now be made upon the superior and nasal part of the eyeball, with the fore and middle finger of the left hand, till at length by an occa- sional and gentle increase of the pressure, or by varying its direction, the iris gradually protrudes, so as to present a bag of the size of a large pin's head. This protruded portion must be cut off with a pair of fine curved scissors, and all pressure at the same time removed; the iris will then re- cede within the eye, and the portion. wliich has been removed will leave an artificial pupil more or less circular." (Gibson on Artificial Pupil, <^o. Lond. 1811.) Such was this surgeon's mode of operating, when the closure of the pupil was attended with central opacity of the cornea, un- combined with adhesions. The effect of a slight adhesion of the inner border of the iris to the cor- nea, will be to prevent the protrusion of the first of these membranes through the puncture in the cornea, which protrusion so much facilitates the operation. In this c.ise, a portion which does not adhere, must be drawn out with a small hook, and then removed. Sometimes the adhesion may be separated at the time of making the puncture, and then the iris will protrude. When the whole, or greater part of the inner border of the iris, is involved in adhesions to the cornea, these must be separated with the cornea-knife, after making the puncture, and the iris may then either be drawn out with the hook, or a portion of it be removed by means of very minute scissors. In every case, however, the removal of a portion is essential to success, Coiedialysis, or the mode of forming an artifi- cial pupil by detaching a portion of the iris from the ciliary ligament is said to have been devised by Ad. Schmidt and Scarpa about the same time, and has been variously niodilied by Reisinger, Langenbeck, Himly, Giaefe, and others. {Wel- lev on Diseases of the Eye, vol. ii. p. G5.) Accord- ing to Beer, this plan of operating is indicated when the cornea is everywhere incurably opaque, excepting so small a part of it that it could not well be opened for the excision of a portion of the iris. {Deer, b. ii. p. 203.) The leelile union of the iris with the ciliary ligament, and, consequently, the greater facility