TREPHINE 1 is tlie composition of the fluid Mr. Little employed : chloride of sndimii, CO grs.; cliloride of potassium, Cgfs.; phosphate ol' soda, 3 grs.; carbonate of soda, -0 grs. ; distilled water 20 ounces. Two draclims of pure alcohol were added to every pint. This was injected at a temperature of 110° F. The apparatus used was a funnel, having an elastic tube attached, so that tlie fluid ran in by gravitation. In the more successful cases !iO ounces were in- troduced at a time. Dr. Woodman and Mr. lleckford, who in the cholera epidemic of 186C carried out Dr. Little's precepts, used an ordinary Iligginson's syringe, which they tell me answered very well. The funnel with a stop-cock, however, soL'ras to give better security agajnstthe admission of air. In several cases the infusiHn was repeated two or three times. Might we not hope for similar success in other forms of malignant fever? It appears to me extremely probable that, in cases of sinking from rapid loss of blood, where transfusion cannot be practised, the infusion of saline alcoholic fluid might be successful, I am inclined to share in the hope entertained by Dr. Richardson that lie will one day succeed in the discovery of an artificial chyle which, by injection into the veins, will restore and maintain life under circumstances otherwise beyond medical skill. Nothing seems more certain to practised transfusionists and in- fusionists than that the injection of saline fluids into the veins is a harmless proceeding, provided air be excluded. In cases of pytemic fever, in various forms of puerperal fever, at a stage when the ordinary forms of administering remedies are unavailable, why should we not give the patient a chance by injecting medicated saline or alcoholic fluids .s Who is there that has not turned away from a dying bed dejected by the sight of a person sinkijig from mere blood-e.xhaustion or perversion, with a sickening feeling that his art is a mockery, failing at the very critical point ? AVhere also can we look with better hope than in the study of transfusion ? Dr. Hatford injected liquor am- monia; diluted with two parts of water into the superficial veins of dogs that had b.'en bitten by venomous snakes. The results as regiirds the saving of life seemed so conclusive that he pro- posed this treaimeiit for snake-poisoning in the human subject. (Med. Times and Caz. 186!).) Dr. Tyler Smith has applied this suggestion suc- cessfully in a case of puerperal fever {Olistiir. Trans. 1870) ; and Mr. B. Wills Richardson has by it been rewarded with success in a case of poison- ing by aconite. {Med. Times and Caz. 18(),Q.) As a guide to this study, and for abundant grounds of encouragement to pursue the prac- tice, the following works should be referred to : Dr. Lillla, JIunlerian Oration lu ilie Tlunlariaii iSncicty, 18.5 J, and London IToiinlal Heporls, 1 !)C0'; Panum, Emhulio, Transfusion und IJliiiincni/e, liinlin, ; /'J. Martin, Transfusion, Rerliii, 1859 ; Ore, Etwles hisluriijues ct p/ii/sinlor/i//ues sur la Transfusion du Sum/, I'avi-, 180'8 ; S. A. Lane, Lvancct, 1810 (refers to cases of J/ceiiior- rltufjic Diathesis) ; JSIuudull, lied. C/iir Trans. 1818; Waller, Ubstetriral Trans. WA'iQ.] Robert Barnes. TREPAN. (From Tpuirdoi, to perforate.) 'TripauHin ; Tercliellum. ; Alodio'us. A circular fl'xw, by means of which the skull is pi-rfiuated in the operation called Irvpanniny, cr a circular por- '771 tion of any bone may be sawed out. It bears a considerable resemblance to the well-known in- strument named a wimble, and is worked in the same manner. Formerly the saw was sometimes made of a conical shape ; but this construction rendered the action of the instrument difficult. In this country, the trepan is now superseded by the instrument called a trephine, which has a different handle, and is not worked in the same iva}'. On the continent, however, the trepan still has the preference. TliEPHINE. The instrument now commonly preferred for perforating the cranium, for purposes which I shall presently explain. It consists of a simple cylindrical saw, with a handle placed trans- versely l:ke that of a gimlet ; and, from the centre of the circle, which the teeth of the saw describe, a sharp little perforator projects, named the centre- pin. Tlie upper part of the centre-pin is made to screw in a corresponding hole at the inside of the top of the saw, and is capable of being taken out or put in, at the surgeon's option, by means of a little key for the purpose. Its use is to fix the trephine when it is first applied, that is, before the teeth of the instrument have made a sufficient cir- cular groove, in which they can steadily work. When this has been accomplished, the centre-pin must always be removed ; because now it is not only unnecessarj', but, if left, would retard the progress of 'the operation, and inevitably wound the dura mater and brain, when the teeth of the saw had cut to a certain depth through the cra- nium. Many trephines Lave centre pins which slide up or down, and are fixed in either position by turning a little screw. The cylindrical part of the trephine is termed the croiun of the instrument. The surgeon should have at least two or three cylindrical saws of va- rious sizes ; for it is always a commendable rule never to saw away any more of the cranium than is absolutely requisite for the accomplishment of some rational object. There is no occasion, how- ever, for having more than one handle, which may be made to fit any of the saws. Trephines are also occasionally applied to other bones, besides those of the cranium. In the articles ANTnuM,BoNES, Caries, Exostosis, Fractures' OP THE Sternum, Necrosis, Spina Ventos.v, other cases are mentioned, in which the employment of these instruments sometimes becomes proper. It is not always desirable to remove a complete circular portion of the cranium, the taking away of a piece of smaller size, and of a diflcrent"shape bring frequently much more advantageous. Some surgeons, who object to removing any uiinecossary quantity of the cranium, occasionally employ a trephine, terminating only in a semiciicular, instead of a circular saw, by which means they can often cut across the base of a depressed portion of the skull, and take it away, without any occasion lor removing also a circular piece of bone. An instru- ment of the latter kind may be sometimes useful. The saws, however, wliich Mr. Iley has de- scribed, should constantly be kept in every case of trephining instruments. This practica' writer re- marks, that " the purposes for which any portion of the cranium is removed are, to enable the sur- geon to extract broken fragments of bone, to ele- vate what is d<'pressed, and to all'ord a proper issue to blood or matter that is or may be confined &o. " When a broken fragment of bone is driven 3 II 2