762 TRACHEA the air passage of foreign hodles brought up by vomiting during drunkenness. The mechanism b}- which foreign bodies gain admission into the air passages is no longer con- founded, except by the vulgar, with the act of de- glutition. It frequently however occurs during eat- ing, when the attention is diverted and an attempt made to speak or laugh. A deep inspiration is made, the epiglottis is raised, and the aperture of the larynx being thus widely open every facility exists for the easy passage of any object held in the mouth whose size is fitted to enter it. So, too, when a person holding carelessly such a foreign body as a date-stone or a nut in the mouth is startled, he may suddenly by a rapid inspiration draw it through the glottis. The exit of such an intruder is opposed by the narrowing of the glottis which takes place during expiration, especially when this is augmented by the spasm and cough which the presence of the extraneous substance occasions, and thus its spontaneous ejection be- comes very difficult. If at the moment a deep in- spiration is taken the head be thrown back so as to place the mouth and windpipe more in a line than usual the accident referred to will be more apt to occur, while of course, if there be either partial or entire destruction of the epiglottis or paralj'sis of the larynx, the danger of such a mis- hap will be much augmented. After a foreign body has passed the glottis its further progress is influenced by a variety of cir- cumstances. If pointed and sharp, it may enter the soft parts, and remain fixed at any part of the windpipe. If light, it may remain in the larynx, but if heavy, and especially if it is also round, it will probably pass downwards to a lower point, its size in a great measure determining the limit of its progress. A heavy body will probably remain at rest when it has once fallen down to the lowest level its size enables it to reach, while an object of slight specific gravity and smooth round outline may continue to move up and down thev/ind- pipe during respiration, and may even be thrown into the mouth during a violent expiratory effort. It is into the right bronchus that a foreign body is most apt to fall, because of the anatomical rela- tionship of the parts—that tube being larger though less in a line with the trachea, and also, according to Mr. Goodall, to some extent from the presence at the point of bifurcation of the bronchial tubes of a ridge or septum to the left of the middle line which may have the effect of directing a foreign body into the right division. After entering the bronchus the extent of penetration will depend mainly on the size and form of the intruder. The efitects produced by a foreign body in the air passages will vary with its nature and the position it occupies. If it is soluble it may shortly disap- pear, and if a chemical it may cause much harm as it dissolves. If capable of absorbing moisture the size of the extraneous substance maj' undergo great augmentation. The most dangerous position a foreign body can occupy is the glottis, where instant suffocation may be caused ; next the ven- tricles of the larynx is most hazardous, next the trachea, and lastly one of the bronchia. Heat and moisture may so augment the bulk of substances of a vi'getalile and aninuil nature as to cause them completely to block up the passage, and grains of corn have been known to germinate Within the canal. If long impacted, deposits of lymph and carbonate of lime may equally increase the size of the extraneous agent. Sharp bodies may come to pierce the walls of the tube, and penetrate bloodvessels, as in a case related by Rokitansk}^ in which fatal bleeding thus arose from the innominate artery. The inflammation caused by the presence of a foreign body is frequently established very insidi- ously, and may continue limited, or it may spread far and wide, leading to disorganisation of the lung and disease of the bronchial glands, pleura, pericardium, and heart. Signs and Si/i)iptoms.—In rare cases the imme- diate and remote indications of the presence of a foreign body in the air passages are so slight as hardly to attract attention. In the va^t majoritj' of cases, however, it is far otherwise. If death by suffocation does not immediately follow, most dis- tressing irritation and spasm is set up, urgent dyspncEa, spasmodic cough occurring in paroxysms, pain possibly at a limited spot of the throat or at the upper part of the sternum, faintness, and it may be hajmorrliage by the mouth and nostrils. If the body is large, there is a most distressing feel- ing of instant dissolution. The patient puts his hand to his throat as if he would remove the im- pediment to his free respiration; he remains, if possible, erect ; his eyeballs become prominent, and the face gets livid; tears flow over the cheeks, and the voice is altered or lost. Attempts are made to vomit, and occasionally there is involun- tary discharge of faeces and urine. The mental anxiety experienced is graphicall}^ depicted on the countenance. Loss of consciousness may follow and continue for some time. If there be great straining, some of the pulmonary cells may give way, and cause emphysema of the neck or pneumo- thorax. Such violent symptoms as the foregoing may abate, and, being followed by an interval of calm, give rise to a delusive opinion of the danger. The formidable train of symptoms above referred to, however, too surely return, and during the inter- vals of their violence there is an abiding sense of anxiety and insecurity. These periods of inter- mission may be very short, or be considerably pro- longed. The higher the position occupied by the intruder, the greater usually is the irritation, spasm, and distress it occasions, from the more sensitive character of the lining membrane of the upper as compared with the lower portion of the air passages. It is mainly when in its migration the foreign body impinges against the laryngeal surfaces that the violence of the symptoms so urgently increase, and it is often from the spasm thereby produced, more than from the mere me- chanical action of the agent, that suffocation follows its passage upwards and its impaction in the neighbourhood of the glottis. The pain caused bv a foreign body will vary mainly with the rapidity and cunipleteness of the obstruction to the respiration which it causes. Occasionally there is very slight uneasiness only; at other times it amounts to agony. A copious expectoration of purulent or bloody sputa is gene- rally observed, and the influence of some particulat posture in assuaging the more distressing symptoms is sometimes remarked, though in other instances all positions are alike attended by the most distress- ing discomfort. The respiration in a portion nt the lungs is diminished or wholly suppressed l>y