LEUKAEMIA—LEUCOCYTHEMIA. 192 the applications in question tje employed at the proper time. If we commence their use too soon, that is to say, before the cause of the opacity if subdued, we shall torment the patient unneces- sarily, and impede the cure. "For instance, suppose that, in a case of albugo, arising from scrofulous corneitis, and still attended with con- siderable vascularity, the practitioner forthwith begins to attack the opacity of the cornea with stimulating powders, and solutions of irritating or caustic substances; not only would he fail in effect- ing his object, but run a great chance of rendering his patient totally blind. But, if he began by combatting the inflammation, which still lingered in the eye, and that chiefly by constitutional re- medies ; not merely would he witness the dispersion of the redness, but he would find the cornea begin to clear, and day after day, a little more of the effused lymph being removed, the patient's vision would proportionably improve." In general, the internal and constitutional remedies, which do good in cases of specks of the cornea, are those which operate in removing the ophthalmias in which the opacities have originated, and the same observation is also true in regard to local remedies. At the same time, there are both general and local means peculiarly adapted for hastening the absorp- tion of opaque depositions in the cornea. Some opacities yield only to country air and generous diet. (See Mackenzie on Dis. of tU Eye, p. 584. ed. 2.) The same experienced practitioner notices also the usefulness of a blister kept open behind the ear or on the nape of the neck, and of repeatedly scari- fying the inner surface of the eyelids. The vas- cular albugo he has found incurable, until the vessels proceeding to it had been divided, and the gums made sore with mercury. All the e^ipedients proposed for the inveterate albugo or leucoma from a cicatrix, consisting of scraping or perforating the layers of the cornea, and exciting ulceration, are unavailing. For, though the enlargement of the cornea should be lessened by such means, its diaphanous state could not be restored; or should the patient perceive a ray or two of light immediately after the operation, the benefit would only be transient; for, as soon as the wound had healed, the opacity would recur. The formation of an artificial ulcer might prove useful, if leucoma depended on a mere extravasa- tion of lymph; but the disease arises from the deposition of an opaque substance, and the disor- ganisation of the texture of the cornea, conjointl)'. (See Scarpa sulle Mallatlie degli Occlii, 8vo. Ve- nezia, 1802. Richler, Anfangsgrunde der Wuti- darzn. b. iii. Essays on the Morhid Anatomy of the Eye,hyJ. Wardrop, Edinb. 1808. chap. xi. Wm. Mackenzie, on Dis. of the Eye. 8vo. eii. 2. Loud. 1835.) [See also article Cornea, and Dr. Stelhvag von Carion (Die Ophihalmologie, S^c. 1853.] [LEUKEMIA. LEUCOCYTPIEMIA.- Blood containing an excess of white corpuscles. This diseased condition was described and desig- nated by Dr. J. H. Bennett {Loitd. and Edm. Monthly Journal, 1851-52), and also by Professor Virchov of Berlin. The blood contains an increased quantity of white corpuscles, varying in dimensions, but many of full-size, with one or more nuclei; also, a diminished number of red corpuscles, without any necessary variation in the proportion of fibrine, which may be in deficiency or excess, according to the circumstances of the case. The normal pro- portion being 2'8 per 1000 (moleschott), or about one in 300. On examining a drop of blood in leukaemia, procured from the finger, from a slight increase to an excess of five times the usual number of white corpuscles have been observed, or they may equal or exceed the red corpuscles in number. The blood in which this peculiarity occurs, is often pink coloured, of low specific gravity, containing a small proportion of solid con- stituents, but without any decided change in the proportion of the solids in the serum. The quantity of white corpuscles is sometimes so great that, drawn from a vein, it flows white or with white streaks somewhat like pus. An excess of white corpuscles may exist for months or even years, with a continually augmenting increase and corresponding decreaseof red corpuscles. When the blood is in a state of hyperinosis, on coagulation the white corpuscles communicate to the buffy coat a peculiar dull whitish appearance, and render it more friable under pressure. They also give to the colourless coagulum often found in the heart and large vessels, a dull creamy, instead, as when less numerous, of the usual gelatinous and fibrous appearance. Or, being extremely adhesive, and aggregated together by molecular stuil of fibrine, or being more numerous, they may form a puru- lent looking layer. The red clot also contains them. Virchov remarks that they have a ten- dency to accumulate in considerable masses, when- ever there is a retardation of the stream of blood, so that in the dead body the greatest number is always found in the right breast. They are also found to be more numerous in the bloodof the sple- nic veins. In a great majority of the subjects of leukaemia, a diseased condition of the spleen has been observed, sometimes coincident wil h disease of the lymphatic glands, and occasionally of the liver. In a small proportion of the cases only has intermittent fever been traced as a precursor. The more prominent symptoms which attend leukaemia are — great debility, often so as to incapacitate the patient from rising from bed, although the face is not expressive of commensu- rate illness ; progressing atrophy ; pallor of the surface, and anaemia, but frequently not excessive; pain or weight in the left side, followed by pro- gressivelj- increasing abdominal tumor from en- largement of the spleen; and often much tenderness and pain, apparently from adhesions; frequently, enlargement of the lymphatic glands; sometimes dyspnoea; oedema, with general serous exudations; and generally towards the close of life, a " genuine hieraorrhagic diathesis" {Virchov, lib. dtp. 169), with occasional slight fever, purpuric spots, and hajmorrhages, especially epistaxis, but sometimes apoplexy. Death sometimes occurs suddenly from codema of the lungs. Virchov regards the disease as a permanent and progressive leucocytosis; and Dr. Wilks states that the enlargement of the spleen consists of hypertrophy, with increase of function, and not adventitious deposit and loss of function, the lym- phatic glands being similarly hypertropliied; thus the latter authority draws a most important dis- tinction between this disease and a form of anfemia attending diseased spleen and lymphatic glands from a morbid deposit hi those glands, but where