GOO TALIPES. would with propriety Le deferred till the simple form, i. e. calcaneus, had been described; but, like equino-valgus, I regard it aa almost unworthy of being retained aa a variety in the classification of de- formities of the feet. In cases of calcaneus, both in its congenital and non-congenital forms, more or less aversion of the anterior portion of the foot is almost constantly present; it very rarely happens that, simultaneously with depression of the heel, the anterior portion of the foot is drawn upwards, and retained in the flexed position m a perfectly straight line with the axis of the leg. Some de- gree of eversion nearly always exists, and there- fore, as in equino-valgus, the compound variety must be either magnified in importance, so as to exceed that now attached to the primary form; or the modification afforded by the eversion be dis- regarded in classification, and assumed to be a frequent condition of the primary form—and the latter appears to me by far the better course. The only advantage in retaining the name is to enable the surgeon in some cases more correctly to in dicate the precise deviation of the foot. Thi pathology and treatment in both the simple and compound varieties are essentially similar. TALIPES CAtCANEUS. Talipes Calcaneus occurs both as a congenital and non-congenital afltection; and in these two forms it differs so essentially in its pathology and treatment, that a separate description of the con- genital and non-congenital forms of talipes calca- neus is absolutely necessary. CONGENITAL TALIPES CALCANEUS. External Characters.—The only essential character of talipes calcaneus, whether in its con- genital or non-congenital form, is depression of the OS calcis, so that in the erect position this is the only portion of the foot which would come into contact with the ground ; but this, in congenital cases, is ahvays associated with elevation of the anterior portion of the foot, which is generally also a little everted and flexed upon the leg; so that the dorsal aspect is in contact with the anterior surface of the leg, and in severe cases the foot is rigidly held in this position by contraction of all the anterior muscles. The position of the foot is, in fact, nothing more than an extreme degree of flexion from the ankle-joint—a position which any healthy foot can be made to assume, more especially in infants, and therefore not involving any altera- tion in the relative position of the bones ; but the peculiarity in congenital cases is that the foot is fixed in this position, with more or less rigidity by muscular contraction. This deformity is there fore, as far as external form is concerned, exactly tlie reverse of talipes equinus, consisting of eleva- tion of the OS calcis, with depression of the anterior portion of the foot—an extreme degree of extension of the foot. MoRDiD Anatomy.—There are no material deviations either in tlie relative position or forms of the bones of the foot in this deformitj'. The ankle-joint is the centre of motion, and it is alone from this articulation that the movements of flex ion and extension of the foot can take place. In the great majority of congenital cases the foot is not very rigidly held in this flexed or, as we should call it, calcaneous condition; and by a little manipulation it can be brought down, or extended to a right-angle with the leg. By perseverance in manipulation and passive motion, the natural de- gree of extensions can generally be obtained in a few months; and this fact alone proves that in such cases neither the muscles nor ligaments have un- dergone that change of stnictural shortening, or adapted growth, which produces the rigidity in other congenital deformities, and constitutes the obstacle to the restoration of the form of the foot— an obstacle which we have to overcome either by operative or mechanical treatment. In some of the most severe cases of congenital calcaneus, however, in which the right foot is rigidly held in the deformed position—cases of extreme rarity—there can be no doubt that the ligaments at the posterior part of the ankle-joint, and the posterior portions of the lateral ligaments, are elongated, as I found them on dissection in a case of non-congenital calcaneus of long standing, although, from the nutrition of the tissues not being interfered with in the congenital cases, it is not probable that this change would take place to the same extent. In these severe congenital cases also, the anterior muscles of the leg—the flexors of the foot—doubtless undergo structural shorten- ing, and their tendons are easily to be felt tense and prominent as they pass over the ankle-joint. Pathology.—The cause and mode of produc- tion of congenital talipes calcaneus are by no means clearly understood. Slight cases of calcaneus, with very little mus- cular rigidity, such as we ordinarily meet with in practice, may not unlikely be produced by position and pressure in utero ; but the severe cases, asso- ciated with other contractions—as of the rectus muscle when the legs are rigidly maintained in the extended position, etc.—are probably of dynaniic origin, and depend upon some abnormal condition of the nervous system. Numerical Importance.—Talipes calcanais is the rarest form of congenital club-foot. In 764 cases of congenital club-foot, of which I have given a tabular arrangement {Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. I, 1856) there were only nineteen cases of talipes calcaneus, and these were distributed as follows : Affecting the right foot only ... 3 „ left 4 „ „ both feet . . . .12 Both feet are much more frequently affected in cases of this deformity than one foot—a condition which also exists in congenital varus, but m a less proportion. , ,. -l r 4. Prognosis.—There is no deformity of the foot, congenital or non-congenital, in which a more fa- vourable prognosis can with confidence be given than in congenital talipes calcaneus. I havenevcr seen this form of club-foot, when congenital, except in infancy or early childhood; nor do I find any orthopedic authority who has witnessed it as a persistent condition at a later period 0 file. J-»« explanation of this fact seems to be, tt"i'.tf Jf" formity-which is very rarely accompanied tv^UIi rigid contraction of the muscles or ^•^"''r;""f dergoes spontaneous cure soon after tlic per od 0 walking, if it be not previously removed by mani pulation and simple mechanical mM"^. , ^ The strong m\iscles of the calf of the eg^^^^^^^^^^ ther with the other powerful muscles on P°st';- rior aspect of the leg, which act as extensors of the