^"^■^ WOUNDS Fabricius rPcommenJcd iron, and Percy used lend ligatures. That metallic threads liave "a great ad- vantage for sutures over all absorbing materials there cannot be a question. Silk, cotton, hemp. &c., get impregnated with the secretions of the wound, and so retain what is most hurtful in con- tact with the raw surfaces, but metals do no such mischief, and they also keep a firmer hold of the tissues, thou.:h more liable to cut their way out and more troublesome to remove. Silver ami the pas- sive iron of Schiiubein firm the best materials. These wires are made of different stren-utlis, and should be thoroughly annealed, pliant, and strong. Of late the true value of metallic sutures is better understood, and they are not now used so exclu- sively as after their re-introduction into practice by Dr. Sims. The use of lead shields secured by the metallic threads over the orifice of some wounds, the employment of shot, beads, clamps, &c., to fasten the ligatures, have of late fallen much into disuse. If lead shields are used it is better to have nipple-like projections attached to the holes (.IS introduced by" Mr. Hilliard, of Glasgow), which can be clenched on the wire, rather than employ shot. In introducing sutures the first should be placed in the centre of the wound, and the rest at equal distances from it towards either end. If necessarv they need not be finally secured till all are in place. The distance asunder and the depth to which they penetrate must depend on the wound, and the ob- ject they are intended to fulfil. Some sutures are only fitted for superficial wounds, and others are used in deep ones. As a rule they should be suf- ficiently close to one another to prevent gapinq-, and sufficiently deep to obviate the lodgment of secretion below them. Frequently it is desirable to leave the dependent end of the wound open for the free discharge of secretion, but that will de- pend oil the probable progress of the case. Ad- hesive plaster may be alternated v/ith the points of suture, so as to secure the most perfect apposition and to give greater firmness to the whole. We leave sutures undisturbed so long as they are of use and productive of no harm, but as they all act more or less as fireign bodies, and therefore as ir- ritants, they should be dispensed with as soon as possible. If tension or strangulation occur they must at once be removed. In withdrawing sutures we should carefully support the side of the wound towards which we draw them, and employ adhesive plaster, and possibly a bandage for a short time, to give due support to the delicate adhesions. Of the sutures in common use, the interrupted and the twisted are adapted for superficial, and the quilled for deep wounds. 1. The "interrupted suture" consists of a series of separate and unconnected stitche.i, which traverse the lips of the wound and are tied sepa- rately, sometimes over a piece of lint or plaster, to prevent undue pressure. This suture can be in- troduced with one needle or two (in the latter case each stitch being passed from within outwards), ni d each stich forms a loop or circle embracing the lips of the wound. Tlie needles used are sometiuu-s larger in diameter at the point than at the heel, so as to render the passing of the doubled thread the more easy. Ky uniting the woinid in the first in- stance by a continnous suti:re (taking care to keep the points of entrance and exit np))osite one another), and then cutting the superficial loops, we have separate points of suture introduced, which converts it into the interrupted suture. The various loops should be knotted with sufficient firmness to hold the lips of the wound gently in apposition, but not so strongly as to injure them bv their mutual contact. 2. The " twisted suture " is formed with pins or needles made to transfix the lips of the wound from side to side, and then a thread twisted in the figure of 8 round them several times, and finally knotted. The thread may be elastic or not, firm or soft, according to the requirements of the case; and we may use separate threads for each needle^ or carry the same thread on from one to the other. The points are cut from theneedles (previously un- tempered), and apiece of lint or plaster is put under their erda if they are likely to injure the soft parts. Rigal de Gaillac employed a piece of e'astic tissue (vulcanised india-rubber) to connect the two sides of the wound, the needles being made to traverse it before entering on one side, and after escaping on the other lip of the wound. There are no verj- appa- rent advantages in this, while there is the obvious drawback of being more difficult to apply than the thread, and that the wound is covered up from sight. An ingenious modification of this, which obviates the objections to Rigal's suture, we owe to M. Gariel. He uses sections of india-rubber tubes of various sizes, which are put over the ends of the needles to keep them together, thus siniilating loops of thread. 'd. The " quilled or compound suture," is so termed because quills formerly were alone em- ployed in its construction, but any rigid body of suitable dimensions may replace the quills. A piece of bougie, or pencil, or wood, or whalebone, or even adhesive plaster rolled up, will do perfectly. This suture is used to bring together the deeper portions of large wounds, and it is frequently com- bined with one of the other sutures already de- sci ibed. The deeper the wound the further we enter the sutures from its edge. The threads are best passed by means of a long needle set in a handle, and with an eye in its point. The thread is passed double and caught as it emerges, after having traversed both lips of the wound, while the needle is withdrawn. As many threads as are considered necessary are passed, and then a quill or other body is engaged in the loops which pro- ject on one side of the wound, while the free ends which hang out at the other are first drawn upon to tighten the said loops, and finally knotted over a quill placed between the series of threads. Kach stitch may have a short bit of quill for itself, or one continuous piece may be engaged in all the stitches. The "beaded suture" was fastened on either side by beads. The " serres-fines " of Vidal (de Cassis) are most admirable contrivances which frequently enable us to dispense with sutures. They consist of minute forceps whose points aie toothed, and kept in contact by the spring given in its construction to the wire of which they are composed. They are only to be trusted in super- ficial wounds, and those " serres-fines " which liave tl e points at right angles to the stems, are the best, from being least liable to displacement. Varieties of suture for special purposes have been suggested or employed by Bozeman, Suns, Nelaton," Minturn, Pancoast, Debout, but space will not allow of their description. If tha attempt at early union fail, or if, from tlie