146 JOINTS, DISEASES OF. become aggravated. Hygienic remedies are con-1 sidered to be more valuable than local. " The patient should have fresh air, generous living, and plenty of occupation for mind an^i body; she should be encouraged to take exercise, notwithstanding pain and weakness, and to resume, as far as pos- sible, the habits of a healthy person." Local sedatives applied in the form of the strong solutions of opium, are advised to be freely em- ployed by Mr. Skey, who has found them most valuable. As a sedative agent, he thinks the common tincture of opium of little avail. An immediate resort to the extract of opium, he re- commends as preferable, and will be found iii the semi-fluid form, a valuable agent in most varieties of local pain of the neuralgic kind. In certain cases it is necessary to excite some powerful emotion in the patient's mind, to ^yhich the morbid condition will readily succumb, if we can succeed in raising it. Fear is the most effec- tive agent; but in the case of a vain woman, the gentler remedy of ridicule will suifice. " If you would bring an attack to a sudden termination, you must operate through the mind, not through the body. These people are remarkably insen- sible to physical pain, but their ears are open to the powerful agency of ridicule. I remember the case of a young lady, in whose mind a sense of indigna- tion was impressed by certain offensively cutting remarks that moved her vanity to the utmost. She ceased to sob, the colour rushed to her cheeks, and she burst into a flood of natural tears. The disease had passed away. In all similar examples of hysteria, whether taken singly or congregated in sympathetic groups, kindness is thrown away; at least, it may tell for what it is worth, but it does not lead in the direction of cure. You will do far better if you can produce a shock on the mmd, if you excite any powerful mental emotion, and still more efficiently by a painful one." (See Mr. Skey in the Lancet, vol. i. 1859, p. 259.) In many cases, almost any form of treatment, whether mental or bodily, proves fruitless, and hence the notorious character which this affection has obtained. The hysterical joint is often ob- served too, in strong florid girls, who suffer from no menstrual or leucorrhseal disorder. It is ex- pedient, therefore, to endeavour sometimts to draw away the patient's imagination from the spot whereon it is fixed. For this purpose, Mr. Bar- well has made use of a plan, which he has found useful in cases where the patient's confidence rests fully in the attendant, and some real desire to re- cover exists. The value of the plan lies in calUng the person's mind away from the aflfected spot ot the body, and establishing a firm belief that when a certain event takes place the pain will cease. He has used a single-thread seton, through a small fold of skin, at some considerable distance from the seat of pain, and has endeavoured to make his pa- tient firmly believe that when the silk comes away the pain will leave her. This lias proved success- ful iu many instances. (See BarioelU op. cit.; We must observe, however, that there are many cases of pure neuralgia of joints which are wholly independent of any hysteric condition.] [Secondary Inflammation of Joints.—Under: this name Mr. Coulson has described a class ol diseases of the joints arising from blood-poisoniiig. iaking the primary affections with which the articular disease may be associated, as the basis of his classification, Mr. Coulson formed seven classes or groups of secondary diseases of joints. The first comprehended such as follow serious operations and injuries, as amputations, wounds, injuries of the head, &c. In the course of his description of this group, Mr. Coulson expresses the following opinion :—" That in every case the poisonous agent is purulent matter, either secreted by an inflamed vein or lymphatic, or taken up from an abscess &c., and that poisoning occurs when the pus becomes mixed with the general circulation; that there is an acute and chronic form of pysemia; that the se- condary affections which occur in the course of the latter, have a tendency, to afltect the subcu- taneous tissues rather than the internal viscera, and are often prolonged to a considerable period." The second group included those cases connected with the puerperal state. The third group comprised those connected with operations on the genito- urinary organs of the male. The fourth group comprehended gonorrhoea! rheumatism, which af- fection he considers to be distinguished from all other forms of secondary joint disease by its not being accompanied by constitutional symptoms. The fifth group comprised the secondary articular aff'ections which accompany exanthematous dis- orders, as scarlatina and smallpox. Mr. Coulson describes two forms, one very mild, subsiding spon- taneously in a few days; the other purulent and resulting in most extensive destruction of the joints. The sixth group includes the eff'ects of morbid animal poisons, as glanders, farcy, the viper poison, the poison of decomposed animal matter, the effects of dissecting wounds, &c. The seventh class comprised that purulent affection of the joints occasionally met with in new-born chil- dren, which may depend upon hereditary syphilis or inflammation of the umbilical vein. For the origin, progress, symptoms, and results of these various affections we must refer the reader to Mr. Coulson's paper in the Med. Chir. Trail. vol.xxxviii. and The Lancet, vol. ii. 1855, p. 496. And also to the article Pyemia.] Mr. McDowal has published some observations on synovitis, connected more or less wit]i_ perios- titis. He met with several cases, attacking dif- ferent articulations with great rapidity, and causing death, apparently by exciting pulmonary or cerebra. inflammation, the affections of the joints and peri- osteum remaining throughout undiminished, i he disease did not shift from one joint to another; but continued in the articulation first aftected, when another was subsequently engaged. \V here the periosteum was implicated, the inflammation obviously extended to it from the joint. 1 he dis- ease too frequently terminated fatally, not seeming to be influenced by the treatment ordmarily adopted in inflammation of joints ami fibrous structures. It occurred with and without injury, and may therefore be considered as either idiopathic or symp- tomatic. The patients were invariably young, being fiom ten to twenty-two years of age. In se\eia instances thev had been exposed to co d, and en- gaged in labour beyond their strength. 1" on^ L°e it followed the disappearance « ^-'j^ > ■ maligna. In every instance the sy"P"""«^^ was violent, and characterised g'-^"' J^F^^f^', anxious and flushed countenance, ^-^^^I'^^l^l screaming, more or less 'i'-'l'""'"', Xts Sere short respiration and 9light cough; sometimes tlitic