17G LARYNGOSCOPE, for looking into the throat, posterior nares, bladder, and other cavities. Garcia was the first person who employed the laryngoscope to study the human voice, and was the first to practise auto- laryngoscopy (Proc. Roijal Society, 1855). His researches gave the first impulse to laryngoscopy, and induced Turck to take up the subject in the summer of 1857, in the General Hospital at Vienna, and at the end of that year Czermak followed, who not only perfected the instrument, but obtained for it a universal public recognition. Dr. Babington therefore was the discoverer of the laryngoscope and the first to apply it; Bozzini first practised rhinoscopy, and Garcia autolaryn- goscopy. The laryngoscope consists of a little mirror, of a circular or square form, with the angles rounded off, attached to a flexible metallic stem, which is fixed into a handle of wood or other substance. The size varies from a few lines to an inch or more in diameter, and glass is now commonly preferred. In using the laryngeal mirror, the fauces must be illuminated by means of a large reflecting mirror sustained upon the forehead by means of an elastic band, or placed in front of the eye attached to a spectacle frame. Its centre should be per- forated. The light to be emploj^ed for lUummation should be either that of the sun or of a good moderator or Argand gas lamp. When the latter is employed the room should be darkened. In rising artificial light, the lamp should be placed upon a table to the left of the patient, whilst the surgeon sits opposite to him, with the reflector fastened before his eye. The rays of light are received in the reflector, and thence conveyed to the throat of the patient, whose mouth is widely open and on a level with the surgeon's eye. When the requisite degree of steadiness is ob- tained, the laryngeal mirror is gently warmed over the lamp, and its temperature estimated on the cheek or back of the hnnd ; the patient s tongue is now held out of the mouth, with a towel or napkin between the finger and thumb, and the laryngeal mirror is gently introduced into the mouth and placed against the middle of the solt palate and uvula, its reflecting surface looking forwards and downwards. The rays ot light thrown into the mouth from the large reflector are received in the laryngeal mirror, and thence re- flected into the larynx and surrounding parts, the angle of reflection being equal to the ang e ol incidence. The back of the tongue, with its large follicles, first comes into view ; then the vallecula; or fossa between it and the anterior or glossal sur- face of the epiglottis; next, the apex and laryngeal surface of the epiglottis ; and then the interior of the larynx, in which we see an extremely movable antero-postcrior fissure, bounded by two brilliant pearly borders, which palpitate with surpnsmg rapidity. This last is the ./to/fe and is formed by the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or, as they are now generally called, the true in contradistinction to the false, which are o n ed by the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments o mus- cles, which are above the glottis. ^ ^^y'l^ the glottis the trachea comes into view, the ungs of which arc distinctly visible far down during deep inspiration. In some persons the bifurcation is readily seen. The glottis is seen to assume in various persons a lanceolate, lozenge, or barrel, elliptic, oblong, or triangular shape, and may possess great activity in motion, or very little. When the mirror, therefore, is introduced into the mouth, the patient should ejaculate Ah! in a pro- longed or short note, which permits of closure of the glottis, and the appreciation of the healthy state of the vocal cords, according to their amount of approximation. The laryngoscope has been in use, chiefly in the hands of a few persons, for the last four years, and has already accomplished some remarkable results. It has "shown that in acute larynyitis the lining membrane of the larynx is of a bright and vivid scarlet redness, with tumefaction varying in amount, but generally prominent on the false vocal cords, which sometimes wholly conceal the true cords. The membrane covering the latter par- takes of the same vivid redness, and it extends into the sub-glottis and trachea. The laryngeal sur- face of the epiglottis and its free borders are of a scarlet red colour, and the boundaries of the larynx are equally inflamed. It is the approxi- mation of the swollen false vocal cords which generally gives rise to the whistling or hissing respiration and the most urgent dyspncea, and not the closure or narrowing of the tnie glottis, as has been generally supposed, although sometimes the glottis is spasmodically narrowed. The ex- cessive danger of this complaint is proved to be the almost complete closure of the rima glottidis, from the tumefaction of the surrounding parts, especially of the false cords, which become in- filtrated with serum, unless the inflammation is quickly subdued. This we are now in the habit of accomplishing by the application of a solution of nitrate of silver, of from two to four scruples to the ounce of water, and applied by means of a large-bellied curved camel's-hair brush, or a laryn- geal fluid pulverizer, aided by the laryngeal mirror. With this is combined the other treat- ment recommended in the subsequent article on Diseases of the Larynx. The topical application may be renewed every six or eight hours until the urcrent svmptoms have subsided. (Edema of the Larynx must be henceforth the designation of a condition heretofore applied to the glottis, for the laryngoscope has revealed to us the complete immunity of the true glottis from this condition, and that the oidema is sometimes wholly confined to the upper boundaries of the larynx, involving the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, and not extending to the rima; sometimes and most commonly it involves the folds mentioned and the false cords as well, and extends as far as the glottis ; and occasionally it involves the membrane covering the false cords alone, producing a dangerous form of obstruction. Now and then it is confined to one side of the larynx. These forms of swelling constitute what we have denominated supra-glotl>c cedcma, as they occur above the true g ottis. Whereas another form of ojdema occurs below the glottis, to which we have given the name ot suh-!^lottic edema. If we regard the nma glot- tidis as double, one placed horizontally above the other, the upper one between the upper or false vocal cords, and the lower or true riiiia between the lower or true vocal cords, we sliaii have a limiting boundary between tlie two forms of ffidema. the ventricles in reality forming the point of separation between the two 1 his di- vision gives'the precise position ot the cedeiim anatomically, more especially as the true glottis