64 INFLAMMATION. when compared to that of the albumen. 3. That nevertheless, serum really albuminous may be secreted without iibrin. 4. As pus-serum in which very minute particles of librin are suspended — Hodgkin denying that the globules of pus re- semble those of the blood, and affirming that they are altogether irregular. Amongst writers of this period we find Herbert Mavo, in his Outlines of Pathology, 1H36 (p. 431), stating his opinion that the chief change ni inflam- mation is a stagnant condition of the blood in relaxed capillaries, the distinction of red particles from liquor sanguinis being lost. He says that Gendrin's observations on the effects of inflam- mation excited by a burning-glass in the frog's foot, " simplify the theory of inflammation, and satisfactorily explain the alliance of all its fad- ing phenomena. The initiatory effusion, he goes on to say, " of serum and lymph, dependent upon the visible obstruction of tiie circulation—the lymph the same substance with attenuated inflam- matory fibrin—the consequent occasional mixture of blood with lymph—the formation of pus secon- dary to and later than the secretion of serum and lyn,ph"_(Gendrin believed he saw the conversion of blood corpuscles into pus, and their exudation as such, an interesting observation when compared with Cohnheim)—"the solid particles m pus, al- thouBh larger, yet of the same remarkable figure with those of the blood, and doubtless the same enlarged-the occurrence of blood in pus—the organisation of lymph by extension of vessels some at first containing pus, others a thick red liquid—and lastly, inflammatory gangrene, pro- ceeding from the vessels being in certain cases irrecoverably obstructed—are phenomena, Avhich may be declared to be now grouped under one law. We have already mentioned Macartney {see p. 9 supra).^^ vindicating the Hunteriau dociririe. In his "Treatise on Inflammation ne extends Celsus's definition by adding a filth article viz , " an alteration or suspension of the natural secretim.s of the part." He then accounts for each of the symptoms (p. 15), attributing the " heat " more' to " the state ot local or organic sensibility of the parts than to the con- dition of their arteries, as regards circulation or secretion." ■ The "redness" is due he says, to the dilatation of minute arteries which before con- tained only serum. The " pain" is connected with the increased sensibility which always accompanies an increased blood-supply (as in the case o ,f erectile tissues)- The cause "swelling" is sufficiently obvious. "Secretion of every kind," he says (p. 21), "is stopped when parts, either internal or external, are excessively in- flamed. Even the secretion of pus ceases when an abscess or ulcer, or an issue, is stifiering a severe degree of inflammation." But on He other hand, he says (p. '^6 >, " I shall show that when all irritation is removed from an ulcer, set n issue, or abscess, that the formation of pus eithei diminishes or ceases altogether.' . But the distinctive opinion on w iicti tn ^ author's theories are grounded (p. l^^U), is u . the "organic consciousness," the Beuse wh ch remains after the cmmections of apart with tit individual consciousness have been cut oir d> dividing the spinal nerve — in other words tlie aotion of the sympathetic system—'s the proxi- mate or essential cause of inflammation. He considers that an "organic sense of vacuity is the cause which produces inflammation of closed cavities which have been suddenly emptied ; e.g., in the case of peritonitis following tlie evacuation of an ovarian sac, or cystitis following the removal of a stone. He proposes (p. 117) to call ihe effect: of the working of the aympalhetic system with re- gard to the non-muscular tissues of the minute' arteries, lone, or tonicity. But he explains that this is to mean a state of dilatation quite as much, or more, than a state of contraction; and considers- that these arteries have three states as regards: size : (1) their middle or ordinary state ; (2) their excited, or dilated (tonic) state ; and (3) their, passive or contracted (collapsed) state. In proof: that contraction of the vessels is a passive, and not. a tonic state, he refers to the condition in which arteries as well as muscles and other structures re- main after death; it being difficult to force injection into the minute vessels until decomposition is about to commence. The opposite of this state he considers to be the dilatation and proportionate m- crease of strength which takes place in the arteries in phlegmonous inflammation. Nevertheless, though we are told that the " organic sense of injury or danger, modified according to the causes which produce it" (p. 130), is that which induces this tonic dilatation, and therefore the inflammation,, yet that the local abstraction of blood (p. 152), is intended " to make such an impression on the sensi- bility of the part as will produce a contracted or diminished state of the arteries, by which less- blood is permitted to circulate in the vesssls im- mediately concerned." And this is said to be due to a law of tonic action : the abstraction, ot, blood "creates that organic consciousness of va- cuity which always produces a tendency to con- traction." The great share taken bv the nervous system m inflammation is well illustrated (p. 6) by the fact that animals are liable to the active iorms of the affection, and the constitutional disturbance caused by it, in proportion to the perfection of their ner- vous systems; man being the greatest sufferer. _ The treatment recommended by this author is directed " to diminish the force of the heart, and give the disposition to the small arteries to go into the contracted state;" and to reduce sensi- bility, to restore secretions, and to induce pleasant or comfortable sensations. The use of opium, ice, irrigation, and water-dressings are especially advo- cated ; the applications being usually modihed according to the sensations of the patient In fact if we survey the period from J. Hunter s death down to 1838, we shall find the key-note of the prevalent doctrines in the following quota- tions. Thomson assumes it to be "knowledge acquired by experience." and the " truth of which is universilly acknowledged," tliat " inflammation iuis its principal seat in the capillary vessels. ^Aiid Caleb Ilillier Parry declares that there is one component or constituent part, winch is pnmarily attVcted in that morbid change called inflammation. * * There can be no doubt that such a part exists, and that this is the Capillary System '' _( logy and Therapeutics, 2iid ed., p. 81, 18-0.) Subsection 4.-The '-Cell" Doctrine Period. But there is no finality in medical theory, and the new biological doctrine, called tiie cell theory, of