294 MERCURY volatility, was perfectly unirritating. Some of this powder being strewed upon the hot iron placed below, was immediately converted into smoke, wliich surrounded the patient's body, and atter some time settled on his skin in the form of an oxide of the metal: a complete dress, having its inner surface fumigated with the same powder, was then put on. The remedy being thus gene- rally applied to the mouths of the cutaneous absorbents, soon got admission into the circulating fluids, and the constitution became thereby more speedily affected than by any other process known before." {AbernethJs Surgical and Physiological Essays, part iii.) As the fumigating powder used by M. Lalouette appeared to have no advantage over one made by simply decomposing calomel by means of ammonia, Abernethy employed the latter, which was pre- pared in the following manner: Two drachms of liquor ammonise are added to six ounces of distilled water, and four ounces of calomel are thrown into this liquor, and shaken up with it; the powder JS afterwards separated by a filter, and dried. In local disease of the joints, such, for instance, as a thickrned state of the synovial membrane, and in sarcomatous enlargements of the breast in women, the late Mr. Siiarp and Sir C. Blicke were accustomed to direct fumigated stockings, or under-waistcoats, to be worn; by which these complaints were relieved, and tiie constitutions of the patients affected, without the trouble and ■unpleasantness arising from the use of the com- mon mercurial ointment. (See Abemethy, op. cit. part iii.) Mr. Pearson procured Lnlouette's machine, and made a considerable number of exoeriments to determine the comparative advantages of this method, and mercurial frictions. He found that the gums became turgid and tender very quickly, and that the local appearances were sooner re- moved, than by the other modes of introducing mercury into the system; but that it soon brought on debility, a rapid and premature salivation, and of course that the medicine could not be steadily continued. This gentleman concludes, that when checking the progress of the disease suddenly is an object of great moment, when the body is covered with venereal ulcers, or when the erup- tions are large and numerous, so that there scarcely remains a surflice large enough to absorb the oint- ment, the vapour of mercury will be advantageous. (Pearson on Lues Venerea, p. 145, &c.) [In 1824 M. Rnpou published two volumes on the employment of luinigalion in various diseases, and recommends in certain cases mercurial fumiga- tions to be used with steam, which, as he says, calms the system, softens the skin, and does not prevent the absorption of the mercury (vol. p. 395). In this country the practice was revived, some twenty-five yea'rs back, by Mr. Li.ngston Parker, whose experience, derived (as he tells us in the last edition of his work Modern Treatment oj Syphilitic Diseases, London, ISCO, p. 322) from the treatment of many thousand cases enables hini to speak strongly in its commendation. Mr. 1 urker directs the patient to be placed on a chair, and covered with an oilcloth lined with flannel, which is supported by a proper framework; under the chair are placed a copper bath, containing from half a pint to a pint of water, and a tinned iron plate on which is put from one to three drachms of bisul- phuret of mercury, or the same quantity of the grey oxide, or tlie binoxide, or other mercurial prepa- ration; under each of these a spitit-lainp. The patient, as Mr. Parker observes, is thus exposed to the influence of three agents, heated air, com- mon steam, and the vapour of mercury, which is thus applied to the whole surface of the body in a moist state. After the patient has remained in the bath from five to ten minutes, perspiration generally commences, and by the end of twenty or thirty minutes, beyond which he does not prolong the bath, it is generally very free. After the pa- tient has become moderately cool, the coverings are removed, and the body rubbed dry. In parti- cular cases the power of the bath may be modified, and not so great a heat or so much mercury era- ployed. In skin diseases Mr. Parker prefers the employment of the bisulphuret; in diseases of the throat or nose, the grey oxide, or calomel, because the patient can bear the head immersed without sneezing or coughing, which he cannot do when the bisulphuret is used, no doubt from the irritant fumes of sulphurous acid evolved through decom- position of the bisulphuret. The iodide of mer- cury Mr. Parker also employs in fumigation, in the dose of from five grains to half a drachm, sometimes ahme, sometimes combined with the other preparations. The bromide of mercury nnght in like manner be resorted to, as it is volatilized, unchanged at a dull red-heat. Mr. Henry Lee published a paper in the Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions for lb56 (p. 340) on mercurial fumigation in the treatment of syphilis, where he advocates the use of calomel; he says that, in ordinary cases five or ten grains of calomel is quite tufhcient. He considers it can be used with compaiatnM: certainty both as regards its composition as volati- lized, and its physiological effects, because, as he asserts, it is "not acted upon either by heat or the vapour of water" (p. 344). Thi.< is notso. According to Turner {Elements of Chemistry olh. ed. p. 630), when calomel, at a heat short of red- ness, is volatilized, a portion is always resolved into mercury, and into bichloride of mercury. Mr, Parker states that, in a great majority ot cases, tlie moist mercurial vapour, employed as he directs, is capable of curing the disease without the assistance of internal medicine; but the cure is oenerally expedited, and rendered more certain, by the administration of the latter in small quan- tities. Thus it may be conjoined with mercurial inunction, and warm draughts o decoction of Ruiacum taken immediately :vf'er the bath. He also exhibits the biniodide, or bichloride ol mercurj, given in solution in s.nall quantities not cxceed.ug the twentieth of a grain for a dose. Ihe baths it appears, very rarely produce f^^^l Zl gums, when aftected, are simply red, elevated, and '"foTfurther parlictdavs, the reader is referred to the above-cited work of Mr. Parker.] l-Rlil-AUATIONS FOR INTERNAL EXHIBITION. [Mercury with chalk is frequently prescribed for the cure of the venereal disease m children, in ti c dose of from one to five grains twice a daj. ii i , however, rather an unstable preparation, .nasnnich nowtvti, trituration with chalk as the mercury, reduced 0} tiuu to a state of minute division, is prone to pass ^to a ate of peroxide, and th,^ pr-'e .rritant and deletoiious to the system. It )s ascertained