alterations of the colouring matter of the skin; tlie other of vascular productions and hypertrophies of the skin, and often of a new growth, or tumour, the texture of which was compared by John Bell and Diipiiytren to the erectile tissues, naturally existing in various parts of the body. Hence, the latter structures are now frequently termed erec- tile tumours. (See Aneurism by Anastomosis.) Some of them (says Dr. Bateman) are merely su- perficial, or stain-like spots, and appear to consist of a partial thickening of the rete mucosum, some- times of a yellow or yellowish-brown, sometimes of a bluish livid, or nearly black colour. To these the term spili has been more particularly appropriated. Others again exhibit various de- grees of thickening, elevation, and altered stnicture of the skin itself, and consist of clusters of enlarged and contorted veins, freely anastomosing, and forming little sacs of blood. These are sometimes spread more or less extensively over the surface occasionally covering even the whole of an extre- mity, or one half of the trunk of the body; and sometimes they are elevated into prominences of various forms and magnitude. Occasionalij--, these marks are nearly of the usual colour of the skin; but most commonly they are of a purplish red colour, of varying degrees of intensity; such as the presence of a considerable collection of blood- vessels, situated near the surface, and covered with a thin cuticle, naturally occasions. (See Baieman's Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, p. 3-24, edit. 4.) When a nsevus is of a dark red colour, its intensity is generally augmented bv everything which tends to accelerate the circula"- tion of the blood. Fits of anger, hot weather, fevers, and the period of menstruation, in particu- lar, are observed to be attended with an increased turgescence and discoloration of the part affected. Indeed the excrescence sometimes bursts, and pours out a dangerous quantity of blood, and in lemales it has been known to become the seat of a regular menstrual discharge. {Bayer, Maladies Chv: t. II p. 277 ; and John Bell's Principles, Discourse 9.) Some naevi, especially those usually called woles, frequently have long, irregular hairs growing upon them; while the surface of others is streaked, and even granulated. Such as appear in the form of a mere red, purplish stain, have been absurdly supposed to arise from a desire for claret or some other wine of that colour, entertained by the mother of the patient during her pregnancy, ihe granulated na;vi have been compared with raspberries, strawberries, mulberries, &o., for which the mother's longing is described by the vulgar as ? cause. The truth is, however, that this doctrine imputing the origin of nfevi to fancies of the mother, ,s neither consistent with experience nor sound physiology. The causes (as Callisen ob- serves), 'potius autem in evolutione primorura iiaminum, a naturfe solita via aberrante, nti in aliis rebus monstrosis quajrendre erunt." (Syst Chir Jiodiernce, vol. ii. p. 201.) From what has been said, then, it appears that certain ncev are merely cutaneous spotK a r d ten '.n^H ereater'or lesser ex- tent, and with scarcely any perceptible elevation. They are an organic malformation of the skin, the natural texture of which does not exist, but a with'iV T " fo^it, not endued with the natural sensibility of the cutis itself. Such spots generally continue stationary during life, and N.ffi:vus. SIS may be regarded rather as a deformity than a dis- ease. {Lassz^s, PatMogie Chir. torn. i. n. 477 ) Others are either of the same nature as the dis- ease well known by the name of the aneurism by anastomosis, or bear a considerable resemblance to It. ihey are sometimes of great size; and their surface is subject to much variet}^ They are soft and indolent, and of a violet or dark red colour' The skin which covers them is very thin, and wheii they are opened, their structure is like that of a spleen, whose blood-vessels are varicose. Some are covered with a delicate white skin, and do not increase with age. Others are more disposed to grow large. These tumours frequently occur in the skin of the face, and in other parts of the in- teguments, on the inside of the labia pudendi, and cheeks, and in the substance of the upper and lower lip, where they sometimes form a kind of elonga- tion attended with great disfigurement. Niivi of this kind, so situated in new-born infants, may produce a serious obstacle to the action of sucking M. A. Severinus has particularly described them unoer the appellation of " tuberculum atru-cruen- tum labn inferioris." (Z)e Abscessimm Natura cap. xxix. p. 803.) ' The nasvi, which form in the subcutaneous cel- lular substance, and were named bv Petit '• loupes vanqueuses" (CEuvrcs Posihumes,'torn. i. p 276) are also of the same nature as the aneurism bv anastomosis. In time, they attain a very large size. Mr. Latta says, he once saw in a child, two years oJd, a tumour of this kind, weighing fourteen ounces, which at the time of birth was only equal m size to a large bean. During the first year, it did not enlarge much ; but it afterwards grew rapidly to the size already specified. {System of Surgery, vol. ii. chap. 22.) Lassus has even seen a tumour of this description as large as a man's nead. (Puthologie Chir. torn. i. p. 479.) Although the original causes of njevi are buried in obscurity, experience proves, that whatever produces irritation in the part afl^ected, or an in- creased determination of blood to it, has generally the effect of acce eratmg the growth and enlarge- ment of the swelling. Thus a trifling bruise, or a tight hat, will sometimes excite a mere stain-like speck, or a minute livid tubercle, into that diseased action, which occasions its growth. {Bateman's Pract. Synopsis, 4-c. p. 327. edit. 3. When these marks or swellings are superficial, without any disposition to enlarge or spread, and their trivial elevation does not expose them to accidental rupture, there appears to be no good reason for interfering with them. Indeed, if they were destroyed with caustic, the knife, or a liga- ture, these means would leave scars, accompanied with nearly the same degree of disfigurement. But, when najvi evince a tendency to enlarge, or are very prominent excrescences, and either troublesome from their situation, or liable to be ruptured, either their growth must be repressed by sedative applications, or the whole congeries of vessels extirpated or obliterated. Mr. Abernethy proposed the application of cold washes, and the pressure of a bandage. This practice was found hy him in several instances to have the desired effect of checking the growth of the tumours, which afterwards shrunk, and became no longer objects of any consequence. (Surgical IVor/cs, vol. ii. p. 224.) Boyer also knew of n case, in which (i nfcvus of the upper lip was cured bv the mother