LITHOTOMY, 224 adult subject, tlie external wound sliould cotn- mence about an inch above tlie anus. The impro- prietj-^ of beginning it higher up has been duly insisted upon by Sharp, Bertrandi, Callisen, and every good writer on the oper.ition. " II ne faut couper I'urethre que le moins qu'on pent, parcequ'on obtient par ce raoyen une meilleiue voie pour penetrer dans la vessie sous I'anglc du pubis. C'est avec raison que Sliarp dit que I'incision de Turethre faite au-dessus de cet angle est si pen utile pour Textraction de la pierre, qu'on n'en retireroit pas plus d'avantage en le coupant presque dans toute sa longueur." {Bertrandi, Traite des Optra- lions, p. 127.) And Callisen lays it down as a maxim: " Ut ese partes baud sectione attingantur, qufe pro calculi egressu nihil faciunt; adeoque bulbus urethras, et hujus pars corpore spongioso circumdata intacta relinquatur." {Si/slema C'/ii- riirffice lIodier7ia;, pars posterior, p. 565.) Jixtraordinary as it may seem, it is not the loss true that cutting too much of the urethra is one of the most common faults still committed by modern surgeons. The incision in the integuments is to be large, that is to saj', at least three inches in length in an adult subject; because a free opening in the skin is not only exempt [from danger, but attended with many advantages, especially those of facilitating the other steps of the operation, and preventing any.future lodgment and effusion of urine. The external wound ought to be directed towards a point situated a little way towards the anus from the innermost part of the tuberosity of the ischium, or, as Mr. Stanley recommends, about one-third from it and two-thirds from the anus. From the line thus made, the incision should be carried inward and upward, through all the parts between it and the side of the prostate gland. Another lino, extending from the inferior angle of the wound to the termination of the cut in the neck of the bladder, forms the precise limits to which the depth of the incisions should reach, and no further. The great principle of making the axis of the wound as straight and direct as possible should always be kept in view, whether the surgeon employ a common scalpel, which cuts into the bladder from without inwards, or other instruments, which divide the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder from within outwards, like the bistouri cache, beaked knives, &c. The following may be enumerated as important advantages of attending to the foregoing prin- ciple :— 1. The wound is made in that direction which affords the greatest room for the extraction of large stones; and the axis of the incision being also as nearly straight as possible, the introduction of forceps, and the passage of the calculus out- ward, are materially facilitated. That these are impertant advantages, I think every surgeon will allow, who knows how much the pain and danger of lithotomy depend upon the injury which the parts suffer from the force some- times used in the extraction of the stone and tlie repeated introduction of the forceps. Ciioselden, one of the most successful lithotomists England ever produced, made the incision nearly as iicre recommended. The following remarks merit par- ticular attention :—" J'ai vu plusieurs fois, dans lea hopitaux do Paris, que les chirurgiens, coupant trop en haut vers Tangle du pubis, sentoient une grande resistance au pdrin^e, quand ils vouloient retirer lecalculavecles tenettes; onvoyoitle p6v\n6e se tura^fier par la pression qu'y faisoit la pierre; en ce cas, quelques opdrateurs plus sages abandon- noieut la pierre, introduisoient de nouveau le gorgeret, et on tournant en dessous la cannelure de celui-ci, prolongeoient I'incision obliqucmcnt vers la tubdrositd de I'os ischion; et enfiu, a la faveur de cette plus grande ouverture, retiroient la pierre sans causer de ddcluremens." (^Bertrandi, Trailt des Operalioiis, p. 133.) Larger stones may like- wise be thus extracted, without being broken, than in any other mode of making the lateral incision, as^ must be obvious to every practitioner who recollects tlie very limited room afforded at the upper part of the triangular space, between the arch of the pubis, the ramus of the ischium, and the neck of the bladder. This consideration cannot fail to have great weight with all surgeons who feel duly convinced how unsatisfactory a method it is to break a calculus in order to get it out of the bladder. The measures necessary for the removal of all the fragments protract the completion of the operation, and seriously increase its danger, while the continuance of a single part of the stone behind may cause a renewal of all the grievances for tlie cure of which the patient submitted to the opera- tion. By these remarks, however, I am far from meaning to say that large calculi should not be broken; on the contrar}', my only wish is that the necessity for the practice may be avoided as much as possible by making a free incision into the bladder, and even enlarging the opening, if neces- sary, as far as can be done with safety. In short, instead of breaking the stone, I prefer the practice of the late Mr. Martineau, of Norwich, perliaps the most successful lithotomist that ever lived, as out of 84 patients whom he cut, two only died; a statement highly favourable to operating with a knife, and to making an adequate opening. " Should the stone be large, or there be any difficulty in the extraction, rather than use much force, while the forceps have a firm hold upon the stone," says Mr. Martineau, " I give the handles to the assistant, who is to draw them outwards and upwards, while the part forming the stricture is cut; which is easily done, as the broad part of the blade becomes.a director to tlie knife; and rather than lacerate, I have often repeated this enlarge- ment of the inner wound two or three times." (See Mad. C/iir. 7Va«s. vol. xi. p. 411.) The great advantage of the knife over the gorget, and even the necessity of employing it to adapt the size of the opening'in the bladder to the magnitude of the stone, or its fragments, are most convincingly exemplified in several cases recently put upon record. Thus Klein, with the aid of a common scalpel, extracted a calculus which weighed twelve ounces thirty grains, and the patient recovered (Prucl. Ansichten Bcdctdeiuhten 0]>eralio>ici,, h. 1.) In 1818, Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, operated with a knife, and extracted a calculus, which broke m the forceps, weighing fourteen ounces two drachms avoirdupois, and the patient recovered. (See ^red. Cliir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 54, &c.) Mr. W. B- D'^k- cnson, of Maccleslield, also succeeded, with Mr. Gibson's knife, in taking out of the bladder a calculus, tlie fragments of which weighed eight and a half ounces, and the patient was saved. (Vol. cit. p. 61.) And in the same volume may be seen other instances in which immense calculi