Vsurface of the duia mater is not thereby reduced to ail absolute certainty, it is rendered highly pro- bable, and the surgeon, under tiioso circiiiiistaiicos, wdiild neglect his duty if he omitted to apply the trephine ; and, where no fracture is discoverable, yet, «y there is other evidence of the injury having fallen on that jxirl of the cranium in which the middle menini/eal artery is situated, the use of the trephine may be resorted to on speculation, rather than that the patient should he left to die without an attempt being made for his preservation. I can- not, indeed, adduce any particular experience of my own in favour of what is here recommended; but, I conceive, that the instances which have been recorded, in which tiie middle meningeal artery has been ruptured without any fracture of t!ie bone ; and the known fact, that there is sometimes a fracture of the inner table of the skull, while there is none of the outer table ; suf- ficiently justify such an experiment in desperate cases. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv. p. 305.) With the foregoing exception, in which indeed the ground for suspecting the seat of the ef- fused blood is tlie knowledge of the exact part on which tlie violence has operated, the plan of depletion, recommended for concussions (see PIead, Injuries of) is all that can be done, when everything is uncertain relative to the situation of the extravasation. It is all that can be done in those frequent instances wliere the effusion has taken place in the substance of the brain, so that it cannot possibly be voided. The trephine then is indicated only when there is an extravasation between the dura raater and the bone, the fracture being situated at a part of the skidl accessible to instruments, and not at the base. We shall not here dwell upon the doubtful example, where the fluid lies betn-een the dura mater and the aiach- noides. I believe that the operation should be limited to a small number of cases, in which not only the existence and situation of the pressure are known, or may be suspected on the ground above explained, but in which the symptoms, arising from this cause, are urgent and dangerous, and the pressure can be removed by no other means. Desault in the last years of his practice aban- doned the operation of the trepan altogether, its ill success at the llotel-Dieu having become noto- rious. Surgeons of the present day trephine with more caution and discrimination, and sometimes with striking success. When the case is a simple fissure, the trephine ouqht to be applied upon the solution of conti- nuity, if the symp/oms indicate a dangerous degree of pressure of the bruin. When the detached portions of bone are de- pressed, so as to compress the brain, and cause urgent symptoms, the operation is still requisite, if they cannot be elevated by other means. ]}iit Richcrand maintains, tliat a positive indication for tre|)hining is not frequent, citiier because it is dif- ficult to judge of the existence and situation of ex- travasations, or because extravasated fluids roaililv escape through the interspaces of the fragments, when there is a splintered fracture. Such facility is also increased when one of the portions of broken bone is totally detached, so that it can be»removed, leaving an aperture equivalent to what would be produced by the application of the trepan. When the operation is determined on, the head should be shaved : indeed; this is often done ini- TREPHINE. mediately the surgeon is called, in order that he may have a better opportunity of seeing what parts of the scalp have been struck ; for it is in such situations, that he has most reason to apprehend fractures of the bone, or extravasations beneath it. If, however, the violence has occasioned a large wound, or laceration of the scalp, the practitioner, knowing where the force has been applied, is fre- quently content with having a little of the hair shaved off the pans surrounding the injury. All that need be said on this subject is, that it is al- ways better to have enough of the hair taken away, to afford the surgeon an uninterrupted opportunity of examining the scalp freely, and doing whatever may be necessary. The loss of a little hair is of very little consequence, while the concealment of the seat of a depressed fracture, or extravasation, may lead to fiital consequences. When the propriety and necessity of trephining are fully indicated, provided the wound, or lace- ration of the scalp, should not have exposed a suf- ficient surface of the bone for the application of the crown of the trephine, an adequate dilatation of such wound ought immediately to be made. If, in the situation of the blow, there should only be a contusion, or a bump, unattended with any wound, a division of this part of the scalp is to be made by carrying the knife quite down to the bone. In those cases in which the swelling occasioned by the violence is considerable, and attended with the sensation of a crepitus, as well as in other in- stances in which there is only a contusion, under which a fracture and displaced pieces of bone may be felt, the scalp must be divided in the same man- ner, only with greater caution, lest the point of the knife should insinuate itself throush the fracture, and do mischief to the dura mater and brain. Authors recommend the shape of the incision to be different according to the kind of fracture, and the parts of the head, on which the violence has operated. When the whole extent of the injury can be brought mto view, by means of an incision, having the form of the letter T, the surgeon should be content with such a division ; but if this be not sufhcient, he may give it a crucial shape. When the trephine is to be applied to the squamous part of the temporal bone, we are recommended to make the incision as much as possible in the shape of the letter V, the branches of which are to be upward, and the angle downward, in order that as little as possible of the temporal muscle may be cut, and that the division of its fibres may be avoided as far as it is in our power. Having divided the scalp and aponeurosis of the nccipito-fiontalis, the next object is to reflect the Haps; but no man would bo'warranted in cuttinir any part of them away, although such practice is advised by Pott. The purposes of the operatimi do not require any removal of this kind ; and the method would leave a wound, wliich would bo long in healing, and, when healed, never exempt from deformity. In short, the rellected flaps of the scalp are capable of adhering to the parts, on which they are laid, after the operation, and, con- scqiienlly, ought never to be wantonly cut away. The scalp, being reflected, some authors iic.\-t advise us to scrape away the pericranium, either with a knife, or riispal(ny. Perhaps this mea- sure may be considered as one which does neither much harm nor much good. The design is to facilitate the application of the trephine to the