96 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS. The suddenness of the attack while the individual is in the enjoj'ment of his usual health; the date of vomiting, and nature of vomited matters; the sex, a preference being on the side of the female who may have borne children, and whose uterine appendages may have contracted adhesions during gestation, which after delivery and contraction of the organ may have become stretched into bands; tbe age, because, supposing a band to exist, the longer the patient lives, the greater the risk of entanglement of the bowel, A minute physical examination must be made. Cicatrices npon the surface of the abdomen, whether accidental and the result of injury, or the consequence of leeches or scarification, should be looked for, and their causes and reason for employment explained. Local and persistent pain, with dulness on per- cussion, and perhaps some fulness, point to the seat of stricture. It is usual for tlie pain, if localised, to be about the innbilicus, and from it downwards, and to the right side; distension at first should be slight, and also round about the umbilicus, while the colon, if not the seat of obstruction, will probably be empty, and cannot be traced by per- cussion; hiccup and vomiting will be early and dis- tressing symptoms, and if the stricture be near the pylorus, the urine will be scanty. Should the ob- stacle persist, the pain will become more severe and perhaps diffused, indicating either inflammation of the bowel about and above the stricture, or general peritonitis; there will be great anxiety of counte- nance, with a hard, wiry pulse, vomiting of the con- tents of the small intestine, and great depression, and the patient dies either exhausted, or from the sliock of extravasation of the contents of the bowel above the stricture into the peritoneal cavity ; and perhaps, after having expressed him- self more comfortable and free from pain a few hoiu's previousl)^ The probable presence of a gall-stone lodged in and obstructing the bowel, may be inferred if there have been history of severe pain occurring at some previous period in the region of the liver. Dr. Watson {Principles and Practice of Physic, vol. ii. p. 465) mentions the case of a lady in whom an impacted gall-stone gave rise to the symptoms of mechanical intestinal obstruction. On one occa sion, when examining the abdomen, she fancied the pressure made had displaced something within, and soon the bowels were relieved, and a gall-stone was found. Some years previously the lady had suffered severe abdominal pains, which at the time were ascribed to the passage of a biliary calculus. (For obstruction by foreign bodies, see Mr. Poland's Article in Guys Reports, vol. ix. 3rd series.) . Trcalmcrd.—i:h\s must be strictly palliative as regards the administration of drugs; opium alone being freely used, and more especially if the symp- toms point to the right iliac region as the seat of obstruction, observation having shown that the ileum near the cfficum, of all the other portions of bowel, is the most likely to have been the seat both of disease and of congenital malformations, leading either to the formation of adhesions, or to the presence of diverticula, and consequently to a endcncy to strangulation. On Sept. 1, liJGl, E. P., male,aged 37, was sub- jected to herniotomy by the writer at the Loiulon Hospital, to relieve a strangulated inguinal liernia of the right side. To effect reduction it was neccssa of ■arj to open the sac, which contained apparently about two feet of small intestine. This was returned gradually into the abdomen, and terminated in a cul- de-sac at least twelve inches in length; probably an unusually long diverticulum. The patient reco- vered. Nutrient enematato support life, and copious to effect some doubtful object, maybe freely used, and in the early stage of the disease abdominal manipulations should have a fair trial, provided that symptoms of inflammation be not present. Strictures, Tivistiiiys,and Compression of the howel. ■—These sources of obstruction are more commonly associated with the large intestine, under which circumstances the surgeon's art can be brought more nearly into contact with the disease, and with a greater prospect of affording relief. According to Dr. Brinton, strictures occur much more frequently in the sigmoid flexure and rectum than in any other part of the large intestine, and less frequently in men than in women who have borne children. Stricture a.«rf Compression. Diagnosis.— The history of the disease, which will, in all probability, have been slow in its progress, and attended occa- sionally by temporary fits of constipation and a gradually increasing difficulty attending defalcation; intermittent diarrhoaa; rauco-sanguineous discharge per anum and small size of the fasces, tend to indi- cate disease of the bowel at some point. The con- stitutional disturbance will be at first less severe in its character than in obstruction of the small intestine. The constipation will be obstinate; vomiting will occur at a later period, or perhaps not at all; the urine will be plentiful; the disten- sion great; the colon above the stricture may be traced by percussion, and its position recognised by tympanitis up to within a greater or less distance of the stricture, where, in consequence of the presence of fa5ces, and unless overlapped by distended small intestines, dulness will be elicited and pain may be expressed. Tlie pos- sibility of introducing a tube per anum many inches up the bowel or otherwise, and the quantity of water that can be injected, will assist in deter- mining the probable seat of obstruction. The general aspect, age, and hereditary predisposition, or otherwise, to malignant disease will assist the diagnosis. The patient will sometimes complain that the contents of the bowel travel to and fro in a certain direction. Mr. Luke informs me that he once assisted at an operation to relieve an obstruc- tion believed to be seated in the upper part of the rectum, when, on opening the peritoneal cavity in the groin, the sigmoid flexure was found to be empty. Being confident of the seat of stricture, he advised that the contracted sigmoid flexure should be opened and fixed to the cutaneous wound, and soon the bowels were satisfactorily relieved. This case proves that the bowel immediately above the stricture is not necessarily loaded with fffices. A similar case is recorded by Mr. Adams {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxv. p. 59). " The descend- ing and sigmoid flexure of tlie colon could be felt undistended, and of their natural size. On passing the finger along the colon downwards towards the rectum, a hard tumour could be distin- Ruished in the upper part of this gut. Treatment.—'rbe rectum must be explored, and its diseases, if any be found, be properly treated. A neighbouring organ may be enlarged and close the bowel temporarily, as an ovarian tumour, a dis- tended bladder; in these and analogous cases the