814 ULCERS. tance above the sore, and combining this witli a bandiige. Ba3'nton published his method in 1799, and his chief object was, as he tells us, to approxi- mate the edges of the sore by the traction of the strips of plaster. Mr. John Scott, of London, in 18-28 published, in his Treatise on Diseases of the Joints, in the chapter on " Ciironic inflammation," an improvement introduced by his father on Mr. Baynton's method. He recommended the strips of plaster to be begun at the foot—the first strip to be applied from behind the heel, and placed along the sides of the foot—in place of merely below the sore. This plan has been so ably advocated by Mr. Critchett, in his admirable work on ulcers, that, after giving Baynton's description of his method, Mr. Critchett's own words will be taken to explain Scott's modification. Baynton saj-s:— " Take pieces of diachylon-plaster, spread upon calico about two inches in width, and of such length as to encircle the limb and overlap at the ends to the extent of three or four inches; the middle of each piece so prepared as to be applied to the sound part of the limb, opposite to the inferior part of the ulcer, so that the lower edge of the plaster may be opposite to the inferior edge of the ulcer, and the ends drawn over the ulcer with as much gradual extension as the patiejit can bear. Other strips are to be secured in the same way, each above and in contact with the other, until the whole surface of the sore and the limb is covered, one inch below and two or three above the dis- eased part. The force with which the ends must be drawn over the limb must be gradually in- creased, and when the parts are restored to their natural ease and sensibility, as much may be ap- plied as the calico will bear or the surgeon can exert." Tne limited and imperfect support, even when a roller is carefully applied from the toes, is the ob- jection which has been made to Baynton's method, and the great argument in favour of the plan thus described by Mr. Critchett:— "You seat your patient opposite to you, and support his foot on a small stool about a foot and a half in height, and so constructed as to receive the point of the heel and leave the rest of the foot free. You should be provided with strips of plaster about two inches in width and varying in length from twelve to eighteen inches, according to the size of the limb. The best material for this purpose is the simple empl. plumbi of the Pharma- cop., spread upon soft unglazed calico and free from resin, which is often introduced to increase its adhesiveness, but which is very liable to irri- tate the skin. If the plaster be well made, and of the best materials, it will adhere perfectly—I have often found it unmoved for many weeks and even months. It is convenient to provide yourself with a metallic warmer,made with aflat top, upon which you can lay three or four pieces, heated either by hot water or by small lamps, which are bettor il you require it for any length flf time. This form of warmer is far preferable to the circular one ordinarily in use, saving both time and trouble. But to proceed. You then take the centre of the first piede and apply it low down to the back of the heel, and then with the flat of both hands press the plaster along both sides of the foot. This plan is very preferable to taking hold of the ends and endeavouring to apply them, as it ensures a perfectly smooth adaptation of the plaster to the part, and also because it enables you to regulate that verj' important point, the amoimt of tij^litness you wish to employ. As you proceed with the remainder, you must always remember the principle is to make one portion hold on another; you must therefore alternate them round the foot and leg. Your second piece should be placed in a similar manner underneath the heel, and then carried up- wards at a right angle to the last, so as to cover a portion of each malliohis. The third piece should be again applied to the back of the heel, over- lapping the first by about one-third. The fourth piece under the foot, and carried upwards; each piece being pushed along so as to allow it to take its own course. This must be continued till the foot and ankle are covered. The strips must then be carried in a similar manner up the leg, increasing in length as the calf increases, and extending as far as the knee, and in some few cases even above this. A calico bandage, about three inches in width and eight yards in length, varying however accord- ing to the size of the limb, must now be applied." " In carrying out this method," Mr. Critchett continues, " we must remember that we have two objects to accomplish ; the one is to obtam a healthy circulation through the entire limb, and the other to act upon the dilated capillaries innne- diately surrounding the wound. Both these objects are frequently accomplished by the general support I have just described ; but it sometimes happens, particularly in small ulcers situated in the hollow between the malliolus and os calcis, that the diseased vessels immediately around the woinid require an amount of pressure which the rest of the limb would not bear. Under these circumstances, very great advantage is derived from applying, previous to the support I have just described, some pieces of strappintr, about six inches in length and two inches in width, in a crucial manner over the wound, so as to extend a few inches above and below it ; these pieces, as they do not encircle the limb, may be applied with all the force and tight- ness the surgeon can exert." Mr. Critchett lays it down as a rule that " in every case in which it is necessary to apply strapping entirely round a limb, it must never be partially applied, but must en- compass and support every part of the leg." If great uneasiness follow the strapping, and become insupportable, notwithstanding elevation, the plaster may be slit up on a flat director on the side opposite to the position of the ulcer; but gene- rally position and sluicing the limb with cold water removes the discomfort, and this process is always very grateful in hot weather, or if there is inflam- mation present or the discharge abundant. The plaster and bandage are best applied in the morning when the limb is free from the congestion that standing and walking occasion. If desired, holes may be made in the plaster to allow the discharge to escape, but they are seldom of much good. When it is wished to remove the plaster, the whole should be steeped in lukewarm water. Strapping suits best in chronic ulcers with elevated edges, plastic deposits in the cellular tissue, general swelling, and weak circulation—the condition which Ts most unpromising so far as other methods of treatment are concerned. It is not adapted to acute cases, accompanied with much inflammation, till the acuteness has been removed by appropriate measures. In sub-acute cases we cannot use mucli pressure at first, though after a few applications it