RICKETS niineiit forward; the oa humeri is distorted out- ward; the lower ends of the r<adiu3 and ulna are twisted in the same direction; the thiglia are curved forwards or outwards; the knees fail in- wards; the spine and front surface of the tibia be- come convex; and the feet are thrown outwards. But, as Mr. A. Sliaw has explained, rickets, be- sides producing softening and distortion of the bones, has the effect of interrupting their growth. Notwitlistanding the statement made by Mr. \yiison, we are not to regard the mere distortion of the spinal column, which sometimes takes place a little before puberty, as a certain indication of rickets. The late Mr. John Shaw examined an extensive series of specimens of morbid spine, and demonstrated the fact, that the spinal column may be incurvated in a lateral direction, and may pre- sent a distortion of the same appearance in two different conditions of the system. " In one class of these specimens, he observed that there was a lateral curvature of the spine, combined with dis- tortion of the ribs, but this constituted the whole of the delormity; in none of the other bones of the skeleton, however weak or exposed to pressure they might be, was there any trace of distortion to be discovered. In the other series of preparations, on the contrary, not only was there lateral dis- tortion of the spine and ribs, but a universal de- formity of the whole skeleton, including the cylin- drical and solid, as well as the most delicate and pliant bones." And, with respect to the pelvis, this gentleman was led to conclude " that in what- ever state of distortion the spine and ribs may be, the bones of the pelvis will not be found distorted, unless there be at the same time marks of rickets in some of the long and solid bones." Now, as neither the bones of the upper, nor those of the lower extremities, become incurvated when the distortion commences near the age of puberty, it is argued, that a cause totally different from rickets gives rise to it, and that the pelvis is in no danger of being implicated in such deformity. {On Distor- tionsufthe Spine and Chcsi, by John Shaiu, 1823.) With reference to deformity of the spine, Mr. A. Shaw joins his brother in considering those skeletons only as true specimens of the effects of rickets, " in which the distortion is exhibited throughout all the osseous system together ; in the skull, the cylindrical bones of the extremities, and tlie large bones of the pelvis, as well as in the spi- nal column and the thorax." He very ably con- trasts the configuration of the properly formed and the rickety skeleton. The human figure at matu- r ty (he observes) is characterised by the lower ex- tremities having a remarkable length, as well as breadth and solidity ; while the superior parts are comparatively small and light in their structure. On the contrary, the rickety skeleton is distin- guished by the head, the thorax, and the arms being preponderating and large, while the pelvis and lower extremities are in a relative degree di- minutive and short. He notices the fact, that all the bones of the skeleton, deformed by rickets, are more or less deficient in size. But this want of development is much more considerable in the pel- vis and bones of the leg, than in the skull, spine, thorax, or bones of the upper extremity ; so that whilst the spine and bones of the arm scarcely lose one-fifteenth of their natural strength, those of the leg lose somewhat more than a third. (See Med. C/iir. Trans, vol. xvii. pp. 441-3._) 543 M. Jules Cloquet has given an account of tha aorta of a rickety child, ten years of age. The ver- tebral column is twisted to the left and backwards and the aorta, adapting itself precisely to this' curve, is doubled on itself in such a manner, that two inches of its outer coat are in contact and ad- herent to one another. The vessel gradually les- sens as it descends, so that in the abdomen, it has not more than one-third of the size which it has in the chest. The lower limbs are stated to be, as it were, in a state of atrophy ; which M. Cloquet suspects might be in a great measure owing to the accidental bend of the aorta. {Pathol. Chir. p. 97.) Such want of development in the lower limbs, however, is usual in very rickety subjects. The following observations with reference to midwifery, are highly deserving of recollection, "In women who have simply the lateral curvature of the spine, the pelvis is not only fully developed and capacious, but its brim does not suffer any en- croachment, such as could prevent the descent of the child's head, from the falling down of the lum- bar vertebras. When, therefore, it becomes an anxious question of a mother, with regard to her marriageable daughter, how far the twist observa- ble in her shoulder and back is likely to affect her life in the event of her pregnancy, the foregoing ob- servations may furnish us with an answer, in ad- dition to the marks which we find pointed out in boolfs of midwifery, as indicative of a distorted pelvis; the more important signs will be discovered in the condition of the long bones. If the length of the extremities be natural, and there be no gibbo- sity of the tibia, we may b= assured that the pelvis has not suffered. On the other hand, in the case of distortion from rickets, the pelvis is not only dis- torted, but it is preternaturally small ; and, as a relation is established between the growth of the long bones and that of the pelvis, we may be able to estimate, from the proportionate length of the limbs to the body, what is the degree of diminu. tion of the pelvis, resulting from the stoppage of the growth." (A. Shaw in Lovd. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi. p. 49.) When the tibia and fibula become curved, they sometimes " acquire increased breadth in the di- rection of the curve, losing a proportionate degree of thickness in the opposite direction. Hence the bones become, as it were, newly modelled, passin-r from the cylindrical into the flattened form. This would seem to be designed for the purpose of en- abling them to support more efficiently the weioht of the body, since by this alteration they acquire increased breadth and power of resistance in that direction,'where the greatest strength is required. I have never noticed (says Mr. Stanley) any ex- pansion in the articular ends of rickety bones, as is mentioned by some authors. I should therefore feel inclined to believe, that there has existed only the appearance of such a phenomenon, the ends of the bones haying appeared swollen, in consequence of the emaciation of the surrounding soft parts. (See Stanley, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 40'2- 40.5.) Dr. Cumin states, however, that an attentive examination of rickety cases has convinced him of the correctness of the opinion respecting the en- largement of the extremities of the bones. "The ex- tremities of the long bones, which are least con- cealed by muscle (he observes), as those of the wrists and ankles, and the sternal ends of the ribs