INFLAMMATION. wound ; it is generally of a remitting type ; the decline may t«ku place rapidly or slowly. . . . Tlie cause of the difference in the occurrence of traumntic fever depends partly on whether the wound heals with more or less inflammatory sj-m- ptoms, partly on unknown influences." Again (p. 329) tiie same author says, " Fever appearing in wounded patients is partly due to the blood taking lip materials resulting from decomposition of mor- tiHed tissue on the substance of the wound, partly to the absorption of materials formed by the traumatic or accidenial inflammation." He gives a temperature chart, showing how, after amputation of an arm, the pyrexia did not occur till the tiiird day. On the fourth day the temperature was 10'2-2° F. ; on the fifth 103° ; after that it sank ; on the eigiit day the patient was free from fever. Billroth gives illustrations of another form of traumatic fever, commencing immediately after ope- ration ; when, for instance, unhealthy tissues are cut, blood is left and decomposes, or when the discharge early decompoaes. As an example he cites a case of excision of a carious wrist, where the soft parts were greatly infiltrated. Here the fever began at once ; the same evening it rose to 102-2° F.; the second .day the temperature was 103° ; on the third this was somewhat exceeded, after which defervescence followed. When the inflammation assumes an unhealthy type the pyrexia may be more severe and pro- longed. Billroth gives a chart of the temperature in a case of erysipelas of the face following extir- pation of a cancer of the lip. The attack began with a temperature of 98-6°; in the evening of the same day it was 103° F. This was its acme. On the morning of the fourth day it had sunk to 101-2° F. ; by the ninth day the temperature was at the same level as at the time of operation, and the patient recovered. In the foregoing groups of constitutional sym- ptoms we recognise only usual traumatic pheno- mena; but when the temperature rises higher we think of septiccEmia or pyjemia. Thus in acute osteo-myelitis, which almost invariably ends in pyemia, the temperature rises to a considerably greater height. In one case observed by "Wunder- lich {S;!/il. Soc. Trans, p. 403) the patient died with a temperature of 105-26° F., rising after death to 105-98° F. In others 104-9° F. was never exceeded. This he considers the bounds of pretty high fever. In these cases the coiirse of the temperature was irregular, but the fluctuations were trifling, and in all there was a marked con- trast between the temperature and the pulse, which was excessively quick, in one case amount- ing to 188 beats per minute twelve hours before death. With regard to erysipelas, Wunderlich says {op. oil. p. 351) that when it affects the face It presents many various types, varj-ing greatly with its causation, the only thing in common being the inflammation of the skin. In pijiemia (np. tit.p. 301) the pyrexia gene- rally begins abruptly with rigors and an elevation of two or three degrees up to midnight; after that the temperature rises more rapidly, and in the morning it may be four or five degrees above that of the preceding day. The rise is ordinarily com- pleted within a day or a day and a half. The temperature then almost always exceeds 104° - .generally it approaches 10G° and commonly enough' It comes near 107°. This point being reaclied,"it 79 begins to fall, and may fall rapidly, but only to a certain point, when it begins to rise again, and so fluctuates from day to day. The second rise does not extend so far as does the first. The fever lasts about a week, and if it proves fatal death is not certainly pre-indicated by the thermometer. Wunderlich has given the name hyperpvrena to the very high temperatures above 107'()° F., which occur at the close of rheumatic and scarlet fever, pyajmia, acute tuberculosis, and which, as they are often met with in the case of injuries of the brain and apoplexy, seem produced by abolition of the functions of the nervous system. It may be taken as a general rule, that when fever is truly symptomatic temperature rarely ex- ceeds 39°—40° C. (102°—104° F.) The higher temperatures prevail in blood-complications, prim- ary or secondary. (Lade, Sur la Tempiralure, &c,, Geneve, 186C.) I must refer in conclusion to the very valuable series of papers on Medical Thermometrj-, by Dr. E. Long Fox, of Clifton {Med. Times and Gaz., 1870), and to the series of Tables by Mr. Spencer Wells (ibid.), containing summaries of the res'.dts of his marvellous series of ovariotomies. By these it clearly appears that local injury or inflammation may be fatal, even though the heat does not rise above 100°—102° ; but that a further rise is of very bad augury. Very low temperatures, 95°—98°, if persistent, and attended with symptoms of collapse, are very unfavourable. Subsection 7.—Neiiropathological Theories op INFI,AMMATIo^f. We have already given (at pp. 31, 32, 35) a short practical summary of the doctrine of the influence of nerves in causing inflammation. We then spoke of (1) the classical cases, in which injury of a nerve trunk causes disease of the parts to which it is distributed ; (-2) the eflects of the sympathetic, when either divided or irri- tated, directly or reflectedly ; (3) the effects of trophic nerves, which directly increase the afflux of blood. At the present day, the attention of pathologists seems diverted from changes in the l>lood to the action of the nerves, through n liicli the processes of disease are set going ; so that neuro- pathology is more in favour than humoralism - though, in truth, both doctrines are necessary for a complete pathology of inflammation We sh-.ill here then enlarge on some of the most recent attempts to ascertain the share of the nerves in inflammation ; fully believing that we are vet fir from availing ourselves fully of the nerve-el^nent whether in the pievention or cure of disease ' _ We may begin with the action of glands, which 13 the true physiological analogue of inflammation; and will show (1) thixi ylands may he engorged by direct irritation of (heir cff'ereiit nerves. About 1840, Stilling observed that certain ner- vous irritants produced an engorgement of glandu- lar organs, wliich he ascribed to vascular dilatation The explanation was suggested that the irritation caused contraction of the efferent ducts, and so the blood-pressure remaining the same, the gland' be- came engorged with its secretion. Ludwig con- ceived the idea of directly irritating a nerve trunk going to a gland and watching the results. JIo ox-posed Wharton's duct in a dog, introduced a caiiula within it, exposed also the branch of tho