DISEASE. 980 VENEREAL tiire. In tlie case of hard sores, one or more glands are enlarged, and share the hardness of the accompanying sore, presenting to the touch well- defined globular-shaped tumours, which are not prone to suppuration. '• Difficulty of Diagnosis in the early stages of Sores.—The evidence is conclusive as to the im- possibility of pronouncing with .certainty upon the character of a sore on its first appearance, i.e. as to whether it will or will not be followed hy con- stitutional symptoms ; in other words, whether or not it be a syphilitic sore. Even though it remain soft throughout its course, it is not certain, although highly probable, that it will prove to be non-infect- ing, but it will sometimes remain soft for many days, and then, becoming indurated, be followed by constitutional symptoms. As a rule, however, the exceptions to which are rare, a soft sore, whether followed by suppurating bubo or not, is only a local disease, and does not infect the constitution ; and an indurated sore, more especially if accom- panied by indurated inguinal glands, does infect the constitution. It should never be forgotten that it is the virus which infects the system, and that the sore is a mere local lesion, and not a neces- sary antecedent to infection. '' Plowever definite may be tlie laws that de- termine the history and progress of primary sores, a degree of obscurity always attaches to their future influence on the constitution, arising from the frequent apparent deviations from the laws which govern them. Certain it is that no amount of experience can protect us from occasional error in diagnosis. Hard sores do not necessarily con- taminate the constitution, while, on the other hand, constitutional symptoms occasionally follow the presence of a sore which might have been regarded as a simple local sore by a practised observer. Too much caution, therefore, cannot be exercised in giving an opinion as to the future safety of the patient. " Constilntional Sypliilis. — The constitutional manifestations of syphilis follow the primary sore at an uncertain interval of time, ranging from four to ten weeks, the average term being about six weeks. Its first indication consists in a sense of chilliness, followed by heat of skin, accelerated pulse, general lassitude, and mental depression. These symptoms are accompanied by pains in the limbs, and especially in the joints, often of a severe rheumatic character. In the course of two days or more, the skin upon the chest, back, abdomen, and arms, occasionally in severe cases over the whole surface of the body, exhibits on examination some form of eruption, most commonly of an ery- thematous or roseo'.ar character, of a pale pink colour. Such eruption terminates in copper- coloured patches. "If the disease be severe, well-developed papules, vesicles, and pustules may appear over the back and head, intermingled with or following the rash. The pulse continues frequent. The throat exhibits a florid discoloration which involves the tonsils and the neighbouring parts of the soft palate. Of the condition of the throat the subject may remain for a time unconscious. This stage of the disease, which continues for some days stationary, may be preceded, accompanied, or succeeded hy enlarge- ment ot' the inguinal and posterior cerviciil glands. The latter, however, are not alw.ays affected. These indications are accompanieii by impaired health, and by loss of physical strength. A sense of general debility prevails, coupled with pallor of the skin, the blood being said to be deprived of a portion of its red corpuscles. The tonsils ulcerate and exhibit either an excavated ulcer, or a plain flat surface, of a soft red flabby aspect. The hair falls off {alopecia). On the side of the tongue at a yet later dale, and generally on its under surface, are formed small white ulcers, three or four in number, of about the size of a split pen, which, on healing, leave a white and some- what depressed cicatrix, while others appear on the soft palate and roof of the mouth, on the gums, or at the angle formed by the two jaws. Condylo- mata, soft mucous-like ulceraticms of the angles of the mouth, nostrils, nates, and female genital organs, iiitis, with its complications, and onychia, frequently occur. Such are the various symptoms that mark the progress of syphilis in the ma- jority of cases, and which may be said to belong to the acute form of the disease. " There is, however, another group of symptoms not preceded by febrile derangement, and more chronic in character. To this belong psoriasis, lepra, and tubercular eruptions, honej'comb eruption of the palms of the hands, the excavated ulcer of the tonsils, and enlargement of the testicle. All these afi'ections are in a remarkable degree almost destitute of pain. " Although the evidence tends to the belief in the occasional development of any of these forms of eruption and other disease, in a given case, the Committee have suflicienl ground for expressing their opinion that the dry and painless forms of eruption, viz. psoriasis, lepra, and tubercle, but especially the two former varieties, constitute the predominant symptoms following the indurated sore, and that the remainder more commonly follow the varieties of the soft or moist sore. "There is a relation between the primary sore which is destitute of hardness in its early staae, and the moist forms of eruption as declared by Mr. Carmichael ; but his views of the universality of the law which identifies the moist eruptions, such as pustules and rupia, with the soft sore, and the dry eruption of psoriasis and lepra with the indu- rated sore, are not borne out by the evidence pro- duced before the C(mimittee. " Sypliilis in its ul/imate form.—While regard- ing syphilis as a constitutional disease, it must be remembered that it does not affect all persons alike, but attacks its victims with various degrees of virulence. In an ordinary case, or in one of medium severity, the disease will cease after the expiration of some months, when a certain set of phenomena have occurred. It does not, how- ever, unfrequently happen that the syphilitic poison survives this period, and continues to exhibit its characteristic eff'ects on other and deeper-seated tissues for an indefinite time. As the first men- tioned form of the disease and its accompanying phenomena are styled secondary, so these later and ulterior effects are often named tertiary. Tlics*" terms, however, are not scientifically correct, since the changes produced in the tissues are essentially of th« same kind as are observed at the earlier stages of the disease, but difl'ering only tlieir long continuance, and their spreading over a larger 8Urf{\CG» "The changes which occur in the invetersite forms of the more advanced stages of syphilis are