doctrine, along with thiit of equivocal or spoi tiine oils generation, of wliieh he declares it to be an offshoot. A pus cell can no more arise from a conglomeration of molecules in a catarrhal fluid than a worm can. Where a cell arises, there a cell must have previously flourished—omwjs celUila e cellu/u. Pus, says Virohow, is a "young tissue in which, amidst the rapid development of cells, all solidintercellular substance is gradually dissolved." The pus cells are theottspring of existing cells; they are created by luxuriant subdivision or proliferation of existing cells. There are two kinds of cells whose proliferation produces pus, and there are two categories of suppuration in correspondence—that of epithelial surfaces, and that of the connective tissue. Suppuration of epithelial surfaces, says Virchow, 13 the mure easy in proportion as the epithelium is stratified, as in the skin, urethra, &c. Those cell-elements, which under natural conditions should slowly generate successive lavers of epi- thelium, are under inflammation converted into pus corpuscles. The cellular elements divide, nu- clei become more abundant, and single cells have their places taken by several, which in their turn again provide themselves with dividing nuclei. It IS not the case that an exudation is poured out which produces pus in itself; neither are pus cells independent new formations, formed by germs aris- ing spontaneously in exuded fluids. Hence there may be every transitional stage between pus and epithelial cells: not that a pus cell is a mucous or epithelial cell in an imperfect state of develop- ment; it has taken a wrong development, and can never become a healthy epithelial cell. Suppura- tion in the connective tissue begins with an en- largement of the cells (or connective tissue cor- puscles) with excessive multiplication and divi- sion of nuclei. Thus the part is swelled, and With swelling are the other phenomena of inflamma- tion according to its kind. As the cell multiplica- tion proceeds, so the affected tissue is infiltrated, broken down, or abaceded (see Abscess), and a col- lection of pus is the result. The coverings, if thoy participate in the diseased process, gradually thin away under it, and so the abscess bursts; unless its progress to the surface is impeded by some struc ture as thick cuticle which is dead, or thick fascia which is incapable of ulceration. So far Virchow. There can be nothing final in physiology and pathology until we know all. In the meantime every observer who has better instruments than his predecessors, and a greater gift at interpreting the phenomena which he witnesses, must bring fort,i new theories, which if they do not destroy preced- ing ones, at least absorb them, and show that what were formerly considered fundamental facts are but partial instances, capable of being comprehended under more general laws. Thus, Professor Bealc has abolished the " cell theory " as a general doc- trine, and has shown that the cell is not an essen- tial but an accidental state of living matter in some of its simplest conditions. The cell, ho .--avs, is an o'xasional m..dification of living substance^ but living substance in its most elementary slate 'need not be a cell, nor form a cell. Space permits us here to state only, that Professor Beale believes that the active properties of life belong, not to the whole mass of the animal or vegetable, but to a cerlain portion of it, which lives, grows, and forms Iherest; tlii.s he distinguishes wminal mMcr VOL. il. SUPPURATION. The rest of the substance of the tissues is laid down under the influence of this germinal matter or grows out of it, and is called /ormeU maUriuL Thus, for example, in bone or tooth, the transparent soft substance contained in the lacunaj and canali- culi, and tubes, is living, germinal, formative; the earthy matter outside them is the product of their life, but is itself not living—it is formed, not for- mative. This germinal matter exists throughout the bod3', and its changes are of the most profound importance in natural growth, and in disease, which is unnatural growth. Small masses of germinal matter constitute what are called nuclei, which grow, absorb nourishment, and form around them an en- velope as in epithelium and other cells. Pus, accord- ing to Dr. Beale, is not produced by the precipitation of particles from a clear exudation, as Dr. Bennett supposes. Neither is it formed, as Virchow sup- poses, from connective tissue corpuscles and epi- thelium only. The white blood corpuscle, the minute masses of germinal matter existing in the blood, lymph corpuscles, chyle corpuscles, the masses of germinal matter in the spleen and other ductless glands, those found in the walls of capil- laries, germinal matter of r.erve, muscle, and other tissues of the body, may give rise to pus, if placed under conditions in which they are too fully sup- plied with pabulum. {Beale, The Microscope in Medicine, Loud. 1868, p. 200.) Pus, then, according to Dr. Beale's doctrine, con- sists of minute masses of germinal matter from one of the sources just enumerated, which, under the in- fluence of some cause of disease, and of an in- creased supply of pabulum (such as is given by hypersemia and exudation), grow abnormally, ab- sorb nourishment, and convert it into the formed material which forms the so-called cell-membrane and contents, whilst themselves form the nuclei. This IS the fitting place for noticing Cohnheim's views on the mechanism of inflammatory exudation and pus formation, which have been so ably brought before us by Dr. Charlton Bastian. The advance of microscopic observation shows two thinirs with regard to exudation; viz. that it is rendered easy by slits, which are produced in the capillaries when distended, and possibly by minute stomata, or aper- tures left in the original structure of these tubes- and secondly by the structure and behaviour of the blood corpuscles, red and white. As to their structure, they are capable of assuming any form t lat will fit any aperture; and as to their behaviour the .-imoeba-like movements of the white corpuscles' would almost seem to indicate something of a force winch impels them to linger, to adhere, and to find their own way through the coats of the capillaries Dr. Beale cannot agree to this latter theory of the voluntary movement of the corpuscles. But when .t IS assumed that the pus formed in any abscess, or discharged from a suppurating surface, consists of white corpuscles, which have e.scaped from the capillaries ni this manner, other considerations come in. For it cminot be admitted that white blood corpuscles are pus corpuscles, although they may, like other germinal matter, become the parent of them. (This whole matter, including Ur. Uaslians demonstrations before the Patho- logical Society, and Dr. Beale's criticisms, will ba found III Afed. Times and Oazellc, lOO'y, vol. i.) It would be giving a very imperfect account of the modern views of the genesis of pus, were we not to lay emphasis on the fact that pus, by its