ACID. 360 NITRIC manner. Having gently, but cavefullj' dried the nipple, the part is to be freely touched with a sharp pencil of nitrate of silver, which is to be insinuated also into the chapa and chinks. The nipple is then to be wasbed with a little warm milk and water. The pain soon subsides, and the sore may then be healed with a little zinc oint- ment. Dr. Hannay occasionally washes the nipple with a saturated solution of borax, before and after suckling the infant. (See Loiid. Med. Gaz. vol. xiv. p. 674.) Sir Astley Cooper's for- mula of borax for these cases is specified in the article Mamma. Dr. Jewel adds his testimony in favour of nitrate of silver. (Op. et vol. cit. p. 753.) Pyroligneous acid, blended with white . of egg, is another remedy sometimes preferred. ■ '(^Gaz,Medicale.) [Shields of ivory or wood perforated, of chamois leather, or prepared calves' teats, placed over the nipple to protect it during suckling will be found beneficial, provided the child can obtain nourish- ment through them. Dr. Simpson recommends the edges of the fissured nipple to be brought to- gether and held in apposition by means of a solu- tion of gun-cotton, which is not disturbed by the child's mouth in the act of sucking. A solution of tannin, five grains to the ounce, as suggested by Mr. Druitt, or of tincture of iodine, may be tried with advantage in excoriated nipples. (Dr. CkircMli's Theory and Practice of Midwifery, p. 652.) ] NITRIC .ACID. [Nitric acid is a remedy in frequent use In surgical diseases, both internally and externally. Internally the dilute acid of the pharmacopoeia is very constantly prescribed as a tonic in doses of n^xv. to "S^xy. in combination with cinchona, cascarilla, or other remedies of that class. It is indicated in cachectic cases, in cases of hectic froi^profuse suppuration, in phnge- daenic ulcerations, 'in gangrene, &c. In former editions of this Dictionary, the writings of Scott, Cruiksliank, Beddoes, Hammisch and others were quoted to show the value of nitric acid as a remedy for syphilis, both in its primary and secondary forms, and it was even thought that it might prove a substitute for mercury in the treatment of that disease. Subsequent experience has, however, con- clusively shown that nitric acid internally possesses no specific influence whatever over syphilis in any of its stages, though it may frequently be given with advantage as a tonic in cases of spreading ulcera- tion, of suppurating buboes, or after a mercurial course. With this view, but without any belief in its specific action, it is still in constant^use at the London Lock Hospital.] As the nitric and other mineral acids decompose and destroy the teeth, the utmost care must be taken to prevent so serious an effect. Their being properly diluted, and blended with sugar, syrup, or mucilage, will materially tend to hinder the evil. But the safest way is always to drink the mixture through a glass tube, and wash llie mouth well immediately afterwards with water or with a dilute solution of carbonate of soda or potasli. [Locally, nitric acid may be employed in the dilute form, (^j. of the dilute acid Pli. Loud, to §viij, of water) as a stimulant and antiseptic iotion to unhealthy or phageda;nic ulcerations, fiom whatever cause arising. It is also beneficial as a gargle in syphilitic ulcerations of the mouth and throat, or in a|ihthous affections of the same parts. When used as a gargle it should be not more than half the strength above recommended, for fear of its injurious effect upon the teeth. But it is as an escharotic that nitric acid is es- pecially valualble to the surgeon, and is perhaps superior to every other material ; the actual cau- tery, under certain circumstances, alone excepted. When used as an escharotic the acid should be the strongest procurable, and its specific gravity should be 1-5. When of this strength it has a tendency, on exposure to light, to become of a yellow colour, from the evolution of oxygen and the development of nitrous acid, the latter being given off in yellow or orange-coloured fumes. The amount of the fmnes, however, must not be taken as an index of the strength, for the acid is of course weakened pro tanto by their escape. The true test of its escharotic power is in its specific gravity.] Strong nitric acid is a most valuable application in cases of hospital gangrene: and an interesting paper was published by Mr. R. Welbank, detail- ing its excellent effects as an application to diseases, which he has described under the name of slough- ing phagedsena, and which he considers as identical with hospital gangrene. (See Med. Chir. Trans. vol. xi. p. 369, and Hosi'ITAI. Gangrene.) The cases, reported by this gentleman, are highlj' favourable to the practice, which, however, is not entirely new, for in speaking of Mortification, I have mentioned that it was Kirkland's practice sometimes even to dress certain gangrenous and phagedaenic diseases with a solution of mercury in nitric acid. Still, I feel that Mr. Welbank has rendered a service to the profession by drawing their attention still more particularly to the use of imdiluted nitric acid in the forms of-phagedsena, which he has so well described. [In the treatment of hospital gangrene or of sloughing phagedsena, cauterisation with the strong nitric acid is still regarded as the most reliable local treatment. The object in its application is to destroy the diseased surface completely, in the hope that when the eschar separates, a healthy granulating ulcer may be substituted for it; there- fore, when the sloughs are thick, they should be removed with scissors before the acid is applied. Vascular tumours, such as nsevi, when super- ficial, may be effectually destroyed by nitric acid, but when they are- of any considerable depth or thickness the ligature is usually to be preferred. It has been also much extolled in the treatment of hsemorrhoids of late years, though here again its use should be restricted to cases in which the tumours are small and superficial. When they are large, the ligature is a quicker and less pain- ful remedy. Strong nitric acid may also be used with signal benefit in the early stage of venereal sores. If applied within the first i'our or five days after the a]ipearance of a chancre, it will usually destroy it effectually, and will substitute for it a sore which will quickly heal under simple local applications. By this early destruction of the primary sore, the risk of constitutional infection, if not absolutely avoided in all cases, is reduced to the lowest pos- sible amount.] . NODE. A tumour of a bono or a swe ln)g of the Periosteum depending upon Venereal disease. See Venereal Disease. NOLI ME TANGERK. See Lvrus.