We admit that cases answering to this descrip- tion are sometimes met with in practice, but we contend that this is not the only mode, or indeed the most frequent mode, in which the indurated sore is developed. From what is continually passing under our eyes, we find it impossible to doubt that the hard sore, like tlie soft sore, is in the majority of cases noticeable within a very short period after contagion. Often, like the soft sore, it is a small ulcer or pustule for the first two or three days, but after a short time, induration takes place around its base, the secretion from its surface diminishes, and instead of being purulent becomes scanty and serous in character, and a typical indurated sore is before us. This, it appears to us, is the regular and normal mode in which the indurated sore is produced. Or, instead of being pustular at first, it may be a mereabrasion, beneath which an etfusion of lymph very shortly takes place. What is the meaning, then, of those cases to which we have alluded, in which there is an incu- bation of several weeks between the application of the virus and the appearance of the local disease, a circumstance which some modern writers have alleged to be a constant characteristic of the indu- rated sore ? From what has been observed of late years, they admit of satisfactory explanation on the supposition that they are examples of conta- gion from secondary syphilitic affections. It has been demonstrated beyond the possibility of doubt, that certain secondary affections, especially those producing secretions from their surface, such as mucous tubercles, are contagious when their secre- tion is applied to an abraded surface, or even when inoculated in the ordinary way. There is an amount of evidence in favour of this which is abso- lutely conclusive, both from cases in which the contagion has been conveyed artificially, as a matter of experiment, to healthy individuals, and a much larger number in which it has been con- vej-ed in the natural way, and has been satisfac- torily traced to its source. In these instances, with few, if anj-, exceptions, there has been no immediate local effect, but after a considerable in- terval an induration and abrasion have appeared at the infected spot, and have been followed by the usual train of secondary manifestations. ' There are therefore good grounds for attributing those cases in which we meet with a lengthened incuba- tion to the effect of contagion from secondary sy- philitic matter, a mode of communication whicli is probably much more common than is usually be- lieved. We repeat, however, that we do not believe this to be the ordinary mode of development of the indurated sore, or that a period of incubation ia its constant or even its most frequent charac- teristic. We shall next refer to the difference of opinion which prevails on the inoculability of the matter from an indurated or infecting sore, llicord, in his earlier experiments, does not appear to have remarked any material difference between tlie two kinds of sore in this respect. According to him, the production of the characteristic pustule by in- oculation was a sure diaijnostic sign, a true test of the nature of the disease. The earlier advo- cates of the duality theory also appear to have considered the inoculability of the hard sore on the person bearing it as an established fact ; but inasmuch as, when thus inoculated, it was found to be a soft and not a hard sore which was usually vor,. II. VENEREAL DISEASE, 951 produced, and this circumstance was incompatible with the dominant idea of these gentlemen, that each kind of sore always produced its like, the in- congruity was sought to be explained by the hy- pothesis that the hard sore became a soft sore in a syphilitic person, but would retain its infecting property and become a hard one again, if trans- ferred to what our neighbours call a virgin sub- ject. It would certainly be a very remarkable circumstance, to say the least of it, that the one disease if it have no more affinity with the other than it has with scarlatina or small-pox, should, under the circumstances alluded to, be in the habit of inveslin^T itself with precisely similar outward cha- racteristics. But at a later period the same ob- servers found that this ingenious explanation was unnecessary, because, meeting with difficulty in inoculating from an indurated sore, they jumped to the conclusion that the sore in question nevar is inoculable on the same person, or on anyone who has, or who at any time has had, true syphilis. This view of the case is not altogether without foundation, for there is undoubtedly a difference in the degree of inoculability of the two kinds of sore. Inoculation with the matter of a soft sore will usually, though not always, succeed, let the person inoculated be the subject of syphilis or not. Inoculation with the matter from the hard sore will not unfrequently fail, unless certain pre- cautions are taken, whether inoculated upon the in- dividual bearing it, or upon another syphilitic subject. Whether it would succeed more readily on a subject free from syphilis, there is not suffi- cient evidence to show, and experiments to settle such a question are obviously unjustifiable. Mr. Lee (See Brit. ^ For. Med. Chir. Review, 1856), was, we believe, one of the first to draw at- tention to the difficulty of inoculating from the indurated sore. He attributed the difference of the two sores in this respect to the difference in the character of their secretion ; that from the soft sore consisting of well-developed pus, that from the hard sore being scanty and serous, the product of the adhesive, as contrasted with the suppurative inflammation, and usually destitute of pus globules. Mr. Lee afterwards showed that if the hard sore were artificially irritated, and so made to secrete true pus, it then became inoculable without much difficulty.; but he states that the results of such inoculations were quite differt-nt in their course from those following ordinary inoculation from sup- purating sores ; that pustules were sometimes pro- duced, but these shortly dried up, and the inflam- mation consequent upon the punctures soon declared itself to be of the adhesive character. (See Brit. cj For. Med. Chir. Review, April, 1853.) Various experimenters have since confirmed Mr. Lee's statement that the indurated sore may be inocu- lated when artificially irritated and made to sup- purate, but it has not been found that the sores so produced have had any of the characters of the indurated sore, as observed by Mr. Lee ; they have, on the contrary, resembled as closely as pos- sible the pustules produced by inoculating from the ordinary soft chancre. It would appear, then, that properly developed pus is necessary for the successful inoculation of syphilis (at all events on a syphilitic patient); and this view is supported conversely by some experi- ments made by Rollet, who found that if tlio secretion from a soft sore was deprived of its pus 3 ^