485 PROSTATE GLAND. The symptoms of the malignant affection are those common to prostatic obstruction of any form, but generally declaring themselves with greater rnpidity than in tlie cases of senile hypertrophy. These need not be repented. But besides them, tliere are other characters, such as more severe piiin, often verv intense ; occasional, often fre- quent, hifimorrhages ; and more or less consti- tutional cachexia. The pain is felt in the rectum, or in the region of the sacrum, and shooting down the thighs, either the anterior or posterior aspect. Hifimorrhage is a common occurrence both at an early and late period in the course of the disease, being almost universally present at one time or another, and sometimes to an alarming extent. In regard to diagnosis, the irregularity in form and consistence of the tnmor in the rectum, the severe pains felt, tbe hseraorrhage, the constitu- tional cachexia, and above all the presence of en- larged IjTnphatic glands in the iliac and sometimes in the inguinal region, will furnish a clue to the nature of the disease. The treatment is palliative, and must be regu- lated according to the various necessities which arise in the progress of the case. Thus, accumula- tion of urine must be provided against, at the smallest possible risk of irritating, much less of injuring, the part. If catheterism can be dis- pensed with altogether, so much the better. In no circumstances is it of more importance to be extremely gentle in the manipulation of instru- ments. The pain must be relieved by anodynes administered both by mouth and rectum. The addition of conium to opium, by enema or suppo- sitory, is often particularly useful ; and by mouth belladonna is sometimes a valuable auxiliary in mitigating pain, given in doses of from one-fourth to three-fourths of a grain twice or three tinies a day. Haemorrhage must be treated on principles already spoken of, and the powers of life are to be supported by every means in our power. Nutritious food, both in the solid and fluid form, with a due proportion of alcoholic stimulant, must be supplied in accordance with the digestive powers of the patient. No cystic disease of the prostate exist?, although it is sometimes spoken of. The glandular follicles are often found dilated, especially in elderly per- sons, and these often contain the little bodies called " prostatic concretions." These formations have been much studied; they are extremely com- mon at all adult ages, though much more numerous among the aged than others. They have little or no pathological interest, as they very rarely become large enough to give evidence of their ex- istence during life. Tubercle of the Prostate is very rare. When present, the organ is generally somewhat increased in size, until the later stages of the complaint are reached, when, after suppuration and discharge, its volume may become smaller than natural. At no period of the disease is the prostate affected alone, some other part of the genito-urinary track being the primary seat of the affection. In most cases the deposit appears to take place first in the kid- ney, or, at all event.i, to be present there in an early stage. The organ next in order of liability to the disease, among the genito-urinary group, is the testicle. The form which tubercle assumes in the pro- state is, at first, that of minute yellowish points. These become larger, and numerous rounded col- lections of cheesy or curd-like consisteuce may be found, distributed throughout the substance of the organ. Deposition and aggregation continue until the mass may reach the size of a chestnut; com- monly, not larger than that of a full-sized marble. It is then generally surrounded by a thin limiting fibrous membrane, being isolated by it from the surroimding prostatic tissue. There are no symptoms which are, strict! speaking, proper to this affection. Undue fra quency and pain in making v/ater, occasionally blood in the urine, and at times the signs of C3'stitis, are commonly experienced. Pains in the back and pelvis, and in the region of the bladder and urethra, are complained of; while wasting and extreme debility slowly show themselves in the system at large. The local complaint is to be regarded but as a part o"f the development of tubercular disease existing in other portions of the genito-urinary organs, and generally in other re- gions of the body also. The presence of pus in the urine, of occasional hematuria, of pains in the loins, perinseum, and penis, gives rise to suspicion of calculus, to be resolved sometimes only by care- ful sounding. The state of nutrition of the patient, his history, and the condition of the lungs, are among the main points to be considered in connec- tion with the urinary derangements in relation to diagnosis. Nothing need be said of the constitutional treatment of tubercular disease, and little in re- lation to the local manifestation in the prostate. Mechanical interference is to be avoidecl, and every kind of irritating application. The improve- ment of the health, by all those numerous means which regulation of the diet, regimen, exercise, climate, and medicine enable us commonly to achieve in tubercular patients, constitutes almost the whole of the treatment to be employed in the affection, when involving the urinary or genital organs. The diagnosis once established, it is of great importance that the patient should be kept free from all instrumental treatment, which, in such cases, provokes irritation, and aggravates the disease, without conferring upon him any benefit whatever. Prostatic calculi exist in very various sizes and forms. The smaller examples, which are most frequently met with, are rounded or ovoid; the larger are irregular, often elongated, sometimes branched, and commonly consist of several frag- ments uniting to form a mass. These fragments fit almost accurately one to the other at their adjacent surfaces, but, nevertheless, appear to be separate and distinct calculi which have become adapted in form one to another by close proximit)'. The small isolated formations are about the size of grains of pearl barley, rarely as large as peas; and these form the purest specimens of prostatic calculus. The masses formed by coalescence are of all sizes, but have been seen reaching the length of four or five inches in very rare instances. In the latter case they extend into and along the urethra, and even into the bladder. Still in these circumstances, chemical analysis shows them to be mainly composed of phosphate of lime, and to have but a small admixture of the ordinary vesical or