LITHOTOMY, in the bladder, the angle rests against the apex of the prostate, and can be felt in the perineum. The surgeon is thus enabled to judge of the exact point where to enter the knife, which he cannot do with the curved staiV. Tiie incision upwards is also limited ; and there is, besides, less danger of wounding the rectum. The knife should be straight- backed, having the blade not more than two inches long, so that the surgeon can tell to what depth he has entered it. Mr. Erichsen prefers dilating the prostate before withdrawing the staff, by pushing the finger slowly, with a rotatory movement, along its side; if tl'.e probe only be used, the surgeon is apt to push the bladder before him. No safe dilatation, according to Mr. Erichsen, can be eilected except by the finge;-; while the greatest possible mischief may be done with screw dilators. The indications for the median operation are reduced by Mr. Erichsen within a narrow compass. It is suited for cases of stone not e.xceeding one inch in diameter; whenever lithotrity is not ad- missible ; for an anfemic case where the slightest additional loss of blood is to be avoided, and, lastly, in certain cases where lithotrity has been previously performed. With respect to the opera- tion in children, says Mr. Erichsen, lateral litho- tomy is so successful that the median can scarcely be superior to it; and unless the latter can be shown to possess decided advantages over the lateral in ease of execution, it does not appear to him to be desirable to abandon an operation of proved safety for one that is still on its trial. IScience and Art of Surgery, 3rd edition, London, 1861, p. 1014.) Mr. Thompson fully agrees with Mr. Erichsen in the opinion that it is very undesirable to use any kind of mechanical apparatus to dilate the neck of the bladder, regarding it much safer to make an additional section, when required. " Of all the cutting operations for stone (says Mr. Thompson), it is unquestionable that the median still presents that in which the bladder is reached with the smallest amount of section by the knife, and it appears to become dangerous just in proportion as injury by laceration, or over-pressure under the name of dilatation, is superadded to the incisions. These latter involve the bulb to a small degree, which is the only structure of importance divided by the knife besides the prostate, and this latter is only slightly notched at the apex in the ordinary mode of performing the operation. But when the deeper parts of the wound feel more than usuiilly rigid and unyielding, or when the stone proves to be larger than was anticipated, it seems desirable to make additional incision for the pur- pose of affording more space. Unless this be done, the opening is certainly confined, and does not safely afford room for any but stones of moderate size." "After all, the anatomical axiom must not be forgotten, viz. that any operation, the incisions of which lie altogether between the anus and the symphysis pubis, even although aided by some lateral section, do not afford an opening suflicicntly capacious for the safe removal of really large stones Contrast tlie want of space in this part of the oelvic outlet, caused by the converging pubic rami,'with the room which exists In one of its lateral divisions, and the truth of this assertion will be manifest.'' {LeI/somian Lectures, Lancet, March 1!J62, p. 2| .0.) The moat reliable comparison between the median 205 and lateral operations is probably that afforded by the statistics published by Mr. Williams, of th,, Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, giving the results 01 44 cases of median lithotomy with the last 41- current cases of lateral lithotomy performed in that institution up to November 1863:— Med IAN Lithotomy. Ages of the Patients. Deaths after Median Lithotom}'. Under 5 years . . 1 From 30 to 40 . . 1 „ 50 to 60 . . 2 60 to 70 . . 7 Cases. Under 5 years . . 9 From 5 to 10 . . 5 „ 10 to 20 . . 5 „ 20 to 30 . . 0 „ 30 to 40 . . 3 „ 40 to 50 . . 0 „ 50 to 60 . . 5 „ 60 to 70 . . 15 „ 70 to 80 2 44 Lateral 'Ages of the Patients. Cases. Under 5 years . . 5 From 5 to 10 . . 4 „ 10 to 20 . . 4 „ 20 to 30 . . 3 „ 30 to 40 . . 3 „ 40 to 50 . . 1 „ SO to 60 . 8 „ 60 to 70 . 10 „ 70 to 80 . 6 44 LlTHOTOMV, Deaths after Lateral Lithotomy. From 50 to 60 . . 70 to 80 . . I I 2 Average period that each of the 33 cases, wf cure, after median lithotomy, was under care was thirty days. Average period that each of the last 33 cases of cure, after lateral lithotomy, was under care wa» thirty-seven days. A table of the weight of the calculi in each case IS also given, but space will not admit of its inser- tion here. With respect to the deaths after median litho- tomy, Mr. Williams remarks, that in no case did recovery result when the calculus exceeded 3 drachms 2 scruples; except in one case in whicli It weighed upwards of 4;} ounces, but a portion of the rectum and perineum sloughed and a perineo- recto-vesical fistula was established. In no case- did a cure result when the long diameter of the- calculus exceeded 1J inch, and the short 11 inch, except in tlie case in which the stone weighed (See Holmes's System ofSurgeri/, vol. 4,1 ounces. iv. 1864, p. 471.) It does not appear, therefore, that the median, operation possesses the greater degree of safety wliich its advocates have claimed for it; indeed the- reverse seems to be manifestly the case at the Nor- folk and Norwich Hospital, especially in adults, and in the case of large stones. In children the- results will probably always bo nearly the same after both operations; in them lateral lithotomy is. well known to be so successful that improvement is hardly to be expected. In adults, however, the- case is different, and any operation which would, diminish the mortality after lithotomy would be an incalculable advantage. The experience of the last few years has not shown that median lithotomy