puthy talces place, except what arises from the mere injury done, but all is quiet as if nothing had happened," Moreover, Hunter speaks of the adhesive inflammation as a thing set up, if the union by the first intention fail from any cause. " Inflammation," he says, " is an action pro- duced for the restoration of the most simple in- jury in sound parts, which goes beyond the power of union by the first intention." " In a wound that is kept exposed, the inflammatory act of re- storation becomes, or is rendered, necessary, and it talces place; but bring those parts together, or let the blood coagulate and dry upon it, and it becomes unnecessary." " I have shown," he adds, " that in parts which have been divided and exposed, the inflammation is in a great measure prevented by bringing them together; or if it (viz. inflam- mation) has taken place previous to the union, that the same operation of union is suflicient to produce resolution; and I have likewise shown that, where parts were not brought together, Nature attempted to prevent inflanmiation by covering the wound with blood and forming an eschar, which, in many cases, will either prevent or re- move inflammation." We might multiply such quotations largely; but •our end is attained if we show that Hunter main- tained the doctrine of repair by the first intention without inflammation; that he specified subcuta- neous injuries, wounds quickly and accurately closed, and wounds covered with a crust of blood, as examples in which inflammation does not occur; <ind that he maintained the theory that inflamma- tion, in its mildest and most beneficent form —the adhesive—was a substitute for union by the first in- tention when the latter was by any cause frustrated. Curiously enough, surgeons of the succeeding generation, whilst revering Hunter as their oracle, and appealing to him as the fountain-liead of scientific surgery, took upon themselves to set aside this, which is one of his fundamental prin- ciples, and to include all processes of repair what- ever, under the term adhesive inflammation. It is true that Hunter, in his description of union by the first intention, ascribes too much to the agglutinating power of the blood; yet even in this small detail his error, if <iny, is not material, and gives no reason why the whole doctrine should be set aside. Yet, set aside it was; and we find that the great teachers of the reign of George IV. emphatically aflirmed that inflammation was the universal agent in repair. " Inflammation," said Sir Astley Cooper, "is a restorative process; no wound can be repaired without it; even the little puncture made by the lancet in bleeding would inevitably destroy life if this salutary process did not prevent it." {Lectures, Lancet, 1823-24, ed. 3, p. 37.) Some few there were, it is true, who held the Himterian doctrine, amongst whom the writer well remembers Herbert Mayo, the first professor of physiology in King's College, London, a man of singular genius, attainments, and misfortune. He always steadily taught the distinction between repair and inflammation. In 1838, too, Dr. James Macartney, of Dublin, published his "Treatise on Inflammation," in which he insists on the entire, separation of that process from the phenomena of reparr, whether primary or secondary. In combating Sir Astley M ATI ON. 9 Cooper's dictum respecting tlio wound in vene- section, he says: " Those who contend for the necessity of inflammation in all cases for the re- paration of injury cannot refuse to admit that, in the instances I have just mentioned " (for example, the speedy union of wounds) " none of the phe- nomena ascribed to inflammation exist; and that whenever the surgeon intends to accomplish union by the first intention, his success will depend on his being able to keep the parts in so easy and tranquil a state that none of the phenomena of inflammation make their appearance. If there be any degree of inflammation in which there are no heat, redness, tumor, pain, or disturbed vascular action, it ought to be clearly distinguished from that kind which is attended with these phenomena; and.then we should have two sorts of inflamma- tion; the one with phenomena, the other without, which, if we chose to disregard the logical contra- diction involved in such an admission, would amount to the same practical result as if on one occasion inflammation did exist, and on others did not." {Macartney, op. cit. p. SO.) Thus Macartney denies the name inflammatory to processes unattended with the palpable outward evidence of that state. On the contrary, Mr. Travers, who may be accepted as the representa- tive of the Astley Cooper epoch, says:— " Inflammation is not the less inflammation because the developement of one, or even all its signs, is so feebly and obscurely manifested as to render its presence questionable to inexperienced observers. " From the slightness of many injuries and the concurrence of a good habit of body, the exalta- tion of sensibility and of heat, the increase of fullness and of colour are imperceptible; and it is to continue this happy state of imperception, and to prevent their becoming palpable, that rest, position, soothing and cooling applications, and medicines, are enjoined ; in other words, it is to preserve the subdued state of inflammation, which favours healing, and not to supersede it, which would more effectually retard or preclude healing, than the aggravation caused by an improper treat- ment." * * * " A graduated scale of inflam- matory action, commencing from this scarcely ap- preciable ' zero' would, if the instrument were as true as delicate, conduct us through all its suc- cessive stages, from_simple phlogosis to self-destruc- tive gangrene. " Degree, though not the parent, is the great in- dicator and instrument of change." [Travers, op. cit. p. 27.) In deciding this matter for ourselves and our readers, wiicther it will be better to adopt the Hunterian doctrine and keep repair distinct from inflammation, or the Borough doctrine which unites them, we may be guided either by what seems intrinsically the most rational and logical plan, or by that which is the most convenient in practice ; and we believe that on both grounds it will be better to adopt the Hunterian doctrine. On grounds of intrinsic reasonableness we may argue that a certain power of repair after in- juries is almost as essential to the maintenance of life as is the regular course of nutrition. That ordinary exertion, and the wear and tear of every- day life, are in some degree injuries, which havo to be repaired by ordinary daily nutrition; and that the repair of a mechanical injury may be considered