SCLEROTIC, along the margin of the cornea, at the sclerotic aperture, at the region of the yellow sp,it and round the apertures for the choroidal nerves and blood-vessels. The sclerotic consists, generally speaking, of an interlacement of some white fibmus, with broad bands of connective tissue, interwoven V(hh elastic fibres. Dsvehpment.—Before the third month, no dif- ference of appearance is observed between cornea and sclerotic ; both are almost transparent and extremely thin. A circular prominent fold of sclerotic appears as the first indication of a boundary between cornea and sclerotic, the part encircled by the fold becoming cornea. The small round transparent globules, of which at that period the sclerotic consists microscopically, become intermixed with fjbrillse. About the middle of the third month the cornea for a short time becomes opaque, but soon resumes its transparency; while the sclerotic becomes opaque, its inner surface presenting a silvery lustre. About the middle of the third month, when the sclerotic protuberance becomes perceptible, a thick network of blood-vessels appears upon the outer surface of the sclerotic close behind the in- sertion of the recti-muscles: it forms a kind of circle round the eyeball, and gradually extends towards the cornea and towards the optic nerve, assisting in the formation of the greater portion of the fibrdus structure. The selenitic rapidly in creases in thickness and density about the middle of the fifth month, at a time at which the fcetal changes of shape of the eyeball, and the closure of the foetal fissure, are completed. Conyenital Anomalies.—A double sclerotic, the rudiments of a sacond one, being situated within an entire one, has been observed. Blueish spots in the sclerotic, or a general blueish (serai-trans, parent) tint, due to great thinnes.% is frequently observed in infants. Remnants of the sclerotic protuberance have occurred in microphthalmic eyes. Prominences beyond the general curvature round the insertion of the recti-muscles, or round the optic nerve, are not uncommon. . Tumors,—Little " dermoid tumors " are gene^ rally congenital; at their base they are adhering tp the sclerotic, and at their summit to the con- junctiva. Often hairs are found projecting from their surface. Staphyloma—especially in the ciliary region— " strumous deposit " in the same region, medullary and especially melanotic cancer, as often found upon the equatorial part of the sclerotic, have been mistaken for tumors of the sclerotic itself, , Inflammation.—The sclerotic is frequently in- volved in inflammation of adjoining tunics, e.g. of the conjunctiva, or of the ciliary processes, or in ophthalmitis. The inflammation is often of syphi- litic origin, if it commences in the sclerotic. It appears most frequently in the ciliary region, where It occupies circumscribed patches of a purple tint, covered with larger vessels, the vascular sclerotic and the sub-conjunctival tissue being swollen. In from five to ten weeks, the inflammation subsides, leaving the sclerotic slightly discoloured, semi- transparent, and thinner. Similar circumscribed inflammation often appears successively in adjoin- ing pirts of the sclerotic all round the cornea. "Ireatinent.—The inflammation readily subsides under the use of bichloride of mercury, from to of a grain to be taken twice daily in some water, with the local application of atn.pia. A few drops of the lotion " to be dropped into the eye " twice daily. The same treatment is at once adopted if new attacks appear, which often hap- pens at the same season of one or several of the succeeding years. Rheumatio Inflammation.~ln rare cases we meet with an acute diffused purple redness, and slight swelhng of the sclerotic, with extreme intolerance ' IJ r^^ P^'" ^'■°"g'>' on by exposure to cold When minutely examining a section of such a sclerotic, we find in the inflamed portion graups of what appear to be connective tissue corpuscles. The latter are swollen, and their stellate processes anastomose with each other and with those of neighbouring groups. Their granules change into cells, and probably by subdivision increase in number. The granules appearing in the interior ot the new cells, undergo similar changes. The substance intervening between the nests of cor- puscles gradually disappears, but if the inflam- mation IS very acute, it is changed into a yellowish pulpy substance, breaking up into shieds (slough), while the nuclei and cells of the connective tissue corpuscles undergo fatty degeneration, Treatment.~The frequent application of pieces of lint dipped into hot Lotio Papaveris, and of chloroform liniment, to the skin of the evelids, forehead, and temple, with frequent instillations of atropia, are prescribed. The eyes are kept ex- cluded from light. The general medical treatment depends upon the constitution of the patient. Inflammation of Tenons Capsule is a common occurrence in ophthalmitis where the capsule be- comes adherent to the sclerotic, &c. Inflammation of circumscribed portions, has been observed in myopia, and in tumors of the orbit or eyeball, and occasionally after exposure to cold air. It is ac- companied by slight ptosis, a sensation of tension in the eyeball, sometimes with severe pain in and round the orbits, with vascularity and serous chemosis of the conjunctiva, and with slight pro- trusion of the eye, the movements of which are slow and painful. Tiealmenl.—Cold fomentations or the local ap- plication of ice, should be tried first, with a number of leeches (proportionate to the strength of the patient) applied to the skin of the corresponding temple. Fomentations with warm or hot Lot. Papaveris are ordered, if the cold should feel un- pleasant to the patient. If ophthalmitis or intra- ocular tumor are the cause, excision of the eye may become necessary. Ulceration.—The ulcer is preceded by a yellow- ish grey opaque and circumscribed infiltration. The margins of the ulcer are abrupt, the base yellowish white and opaque, with much redness and swelling of the surrounding sclerotic and conjunctiva. A patient, some months ago dis- charged from the hospital after recovery from a syphilitic ulcer of the lower lid, lately presented himself with two deep ulcers in the lower and outer part of the sclerotic, with ulceration of the cornea and some iritis. The ulcers healed rapidly under the application of the ungt, hydiarg. nitrat- niitius; a quantity of the size of a small pea being rubbed into the ulcers twice daily. Cancerous ulcerations may from the eyelids encroach upon the sclerotic Injuries.—Clean cuts or punctures of the scle-