1 LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OF, inflammation it occurs most frequently on the lips of the glottis, and when in connection with pulmo- nary consumption it is most common in the tnichea. Thick cord-like cicatrices may result from ulcera- tive action in the windpipe, and cause considerable contraction. The expectoration which accompanies chronic laryngeal inflammation is at first scanty, but soon becomes profuse, more or less purulent, fetid, and streaked with blood. Portions of necrosed cartilage are occasionally expelled with the sputa, together with phosphatic concretions which form in the diseased larynx. If pieces of dead cartilage, or such concretions as have been referred to, in place of being extruded, become lodged in the windpipe after being loosened, they may cause even fata! results, and in all cases much irritation will be occasioned by them. The symptoms of chronic laryngitis vary much with the severity of the seizure, gnd the extent of surface implicated. Its presence may be alone signified, in the slighter forms of the aifection, by a husky and hoarse voice, a dry wheezy cough, and some amount of dyspnoaa. Pain on pressing the larj'nx against the spine, or on moving it from side to side, will also probably be complained of. The more changed from its normal condition the raucous membrane becomes, the more will the calibre of the canal be restricted, and the breathing and voice suffer embarrassment. The inspiration becomes sibilant in the more severe forms of the disease, and complete aphonia may arise. Deglu- tition is occasionally interfered with, especially when ulceration is present on the anterior surface of the epiglottis. The disease may extend down- wards and implicate the lungs, causing tubercular deposit there. Such implication is not always easily determined, from the confusion of sounds heard through the stethoscope; however, by per- cussion, the existence of tubercular matter may be recognised. Death in chronic laryngitis may take place by spasm, or by the supervention of an attack of the acute or oedematous form of the disease, or by symptoms similar to those of phthisis, viz. wasting and hectic. The diagnosis will rest on the history of the attack, the changed hoarse whistling voice, the hissing inspiration, the peculiar cough, the tender- ness produced by pressure on the upper part of the windpipe, the pain or uneasiness caused by deglu- tition and by speaking, the absence of acute in- I flammatory fever, but the presence of considerable constitutional irritation or hectic. When there is ulceration at the upper orifice of the larynx or on the epiglottis, then the pain on deglutition will be very considerably augmented, and at all times there is a fixed pain at the upper part of the larynx, and usually a rejection of fluids by the nose. When ulceration attacks the vocal cords, the voice will be rendered hoarse, or be altogether suppressed. The differentiation of chronic laryngitis from anenrismiil and other tumours pressing on the re- current nerves is to be sought by observing the effect which their pressure occasions on blood- vessels, gullet, or lungi, and by auscultation and percussion of the upper part of the chest. We thus obtain evidence of the existence or not of aneurism, or other tumour, occupying tho place where lung tissue should be. In few cases can any confusion exist between chronic laryngitis and an 185 access of asthma, but the state of the voice will serve as a well-marked distinction. In asthma it is little, if at all, changed; in laryngitis it is very markedly afi'ected. Further, the paroxysm of asthma comes on for the most part suddenly, and leaves the patient as it found him, in compa- parative health, while the other affection becomes established slowly, and increases in intensity, re- maining long, and leaving the person affected in a deplorable condition. There is, besides, the pro- bable previous occurrence of the asthmatic attack, and there is its recurrence, all serving to distin- guish the two diseases beyond the possibility of confusion. The prognosis of chronic laryngitis will mainly depend on the stage which the aflfection has reached, its severity, and the powers of resistance to_ Us effects possessed by the patient. In its milder forms chronic laryngitis is removable, but it is very liable to return, while in the more advanced and severe degrees it is an incurable and very de- structive malady. When ulceration has made much way, and abscesses form, producing those general symptoms which have been not inappro- priately termed " phthisis laryngea," ihe case ia well-nigh hopeless. The ireatment aims chiefly at overcoming the local symptoms, but the constitutional efiFects must also be managed. The treatment must be varied according to the severity of the disease, its cause and its subject. Perfect rest to the affected part is of very great consequence. Talking should be prevented as much as possible, and the most soluble food must be used, so as to render deglutition as easy as can be. Any special source of local irritation, as those connected with occupation or such like, must be removed, and exposure to cold carefully avoided. Removal to a mild climate becomes often necessary, and in all cases is highly beneficial. Any derangement in the general health, any pernicious habit by which the larynx is irri- tated, any irregularity in the secretions, must be corrected; and in general tonics, nourishing food, and It may be the use of mineral waters, will be indicated. If the cause of the disease has been syphilis or the abuse of mercury, then iron or the iodide of potassium must be used, but the admi- nistration of mercury for the cure of syphilitic laryngitis must only be thought of when the patient is strong and able to bear it. Further when the effusion attending the affection has been considerable, it may be desirable, if the patient be vigorous, to use mercury cautiously in order to hasten the removal of such effusion. If used with proper circumspection, great good may be got from this drug in such cases. Sedatives and antispasmodics, such as opium, belladonna, valerian, camphor, stramonium, ether and hyoscyamus, given internally, are occasioiiallv useful in allaying cough, relieving spasm, and quieting irritation, but the benefit attending them is generally only very temporary. Drs. Stokes and Graves recommend the external use of bella- donna (in the form of plaster) to the throat in order to relieve the sp.ism. Local remedies. Occasionallv the application of a small number of leeches to the sides of the larynx relieves the pain and cough; and counter- irritation by croton oil or tartar emetic or turnen tine to the same part, or to the back of the neck