LITHOTOMY. were removed from the bladder with various results, but particularly one which weighed sixteen ounces, and which Sir A. Cooper could not succeed in breaking; he was therefore obliged to enlarge the wound first made with the gorget, " to the sacro-sclatic ligament," when, with tlie aid of a hook applied to the fore part of the stone behind the pubes, and the simultaneous assistance of the forceps, he succeeded, with considerable difficulty, in removing the immense mass. The patient lived, however, on!}' four hours after the operation, (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 73.) 2. The arteria pudica profunda can never be be injured, because the surgeon does not let the knife or gorget approach nearer to the ischium than a point which is situated some way from the tuberosity of that bone towards the anus; and consequently the edge of the instrument cannot come into contact with the inside of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, where the great pudic artery is situated. 3. The rectum will not be wounded, because the direction of the axis of the incision, down- wards and outwards to the above-mentioned point, sufficiently removes the edge of the knife or gorget from the intestine. But the rectum will be in still greater safety if it be pressed downwards with the forefinger of the left hand in the wound, and the prudent plan of emptying it, by means of a clyster, a short time before the operation, be not omitted; for no lithotomist should ever forget that when this bowel is considerably distended with fseces it rises up a little way on each side of the prostate gland. 4. As the seminal duct penetrates the lower part of the substance of the prostate gland, in order to reach the verumontanum, and the knife or other instrument employed divides the side of that gland obliquely, outwards and downwards, the d.uct will not be in danger of being cut. The judicious Callisen is well aware of the ad- vantages of making a smooth, even, direct incision into the bladder ;* but, like Scarpa, Dupuytren, Brodie, Stanlej', Listen, and others, he is averse to extending the cut through the neck of that viscus. Indeed, as we shall presently notice, Scarpa does not sanction cutting any portion of the bladder whatever. Every practitioner who will take the trouble to look over the history of the lateral operation, will find that the greater number of Hthotomists who have particularly distinguished themselves by their mparalleled success, as Frcre Jacques, Cheselden, Come, Martineau, Souberbielle, &c., made a free incision in the bladder. This fact alone is enough to raise doubts of the goodness of the advice de- livered upon this subject by Callisen and Scarpa; especially as neither they, nor any other modern surgeon (with the exception, perhaps, of Pajola, whose individual skill is said by Langenbcck to make amends for the disadvantages of his method), can boast of having cut patients for the stone with a degree o[ success at all equal to that of the above- mentioned operators. The extraordinary success which characterised Chcseldcn's practice, we have fi<r„rl ^ httud an^ulatum, cornica! %urfB, apice vesicam respiciente, externa ampla.e quntuor pollicum longit„mne, un le cfl vSs S"'""/,, "'•ena;, fnci itntur See VOL. n. 225 already detailed. The accounts of the successful operations performed by Freres Jacques and Come, are equally remarkable. Mr. Martineau, as I have noticed, lost but two patients out of eight3--four on whom he operated, and this without making a selection, as he never rejected any case. His patients were always kept a week in the house before they were operated upon; and this precaution, with a regulated diet, and, perhaps, a dose or two of opening medicine, was the only preparatory treatment. {Med, Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 409.) During my stay at Paris, in 1815, I saw Dr. Souberbielle extract a stone of considerable size, on the plan of his well-known ancestor. The in- cision was ample and direct, so that the calculus was taken out with perfect ease. Now, as the operations of this professed lithotomist are very numerous, and he enjoys the reputation of scarcely ever losing a patient, are we not justified in infer- ring that the advocates for a small opening are promulgating the worst advice which can be oiiered to the practitioner.' My own observations certainly tend to such a conclusion, as will be presently explained. The tract published by Scarpa {Memoir on the Cutting Gorget of Haiukins, &c., trans, by Wisluirt), has for its main objects the recommendation of a modification of Hawkins's gorget, and the inculcation of the propriety of making a limited incision in the prostate gland without cutting any part of the bladder. As' sufficient room cannot thus be obtained for the extraction of even a stone of moderate size, he is an advocate for the gradual dilatation of the urethra and orifice of the bladder. He observes that the lateral operation, though executed with the greatest precision, does not exempt the surgeon from dilat- ing, in a certain degree, the orifice of the bladder and cervix of the urethra; the dilatation of those parts, however moderate, being always necessary, even where the calculus is of middling size. He states that, in the adult, the orifice of the bladder dilates almost spontaneously to the diameter of five lines; and he adds that the lateral incision, within proper limits, divides the body and base of the prostate gland to the depth of four, or at most, five lines, forming, with the five to which the orifice of the bladder naturally yields an aperture of ten lines. But, says Scarpa, in an adult a stone of ordinary size and oval figure is sixteen lines in the small diameter, to which must be added the thickness of the blades of the forceps- consequently, even after the incision has been made with the most scrupulous exactness, the stone, though of moderate size, cannot pass out of the bladder unless the dilatation of the base of the gland and orifice of the bladder be carried to the extent of nearly eight lines, beyond the size of the aperture made with the knife. But, adds Scarpa, if, in order to avoid distending the'parts to the extent of eight lines, the base of the prostate gland, together with the orifice of the bladder and a part of its fundus, be divided to a depth equiva- lent to it, the event would necessarily be an effusion of urine into the cellular membrane, between tlio rectum and bladder, and consequently suppura- tion, gangrene, fistulas, and other serious evils (PP- 4, .5.) (Vccording to Scarpa, the apex of the prostate gland forms the greatest resistance to the introduc- tion ol the forceps and the extraction of the stone, Q