818 ULCERS, twenty-grain doses, three times clail}^ Mr. Holt " seals" these sores by covering them from the air ■with adhesive plaster placed round the edges, and oiled silk glued to the plaster by collodion, chang- ing the covering when the discharge (which is seen through the transparent oiled-siUc covering) accumulates so ranch as to render it necessary. Brainard, of the United States, speaks highly of the stimulating and deodorising effects « the vapour of iodine in these ulcers. His method ot applying it will be found in RMihingS Abstract, vol. xxxi., p. 139. Tincture of cantharides with decoction of chinchona given internally is also strongly recommended in callous ulcers, and Mr. Eiichsen speaks of using liquor arsenicalis in obstinate cases with advantage. There is no donbt but that an opiate at night helps the healing of these and most other ulcers, from the class of persons in whom they are met with. Of local stimulants for indolent sores some have been mentioned. The metallic washes ; weak nitrate of mercury ; solution of chlorinated soda, and many other combinations, which it would be useless to enumerate, can be employed to stimulate these ulcers. In all cases, careful bandaging is an important element in their successful management. Plastic operations have been occasionally employed to close these sores when other measures have failed to heal them. Internally, good food and wine are generally required, and every measure calculated to augment the vigour. The bowels are frequently costive in patients suffering from indolent sores, and in females the menstruation will often be found defi- cient or irregular. These conditions must be corrected, and tonics or alteratives used as the case may require. Warm clothing, free exercise, warm bathing, &.c. are all most useful adjuvants to the local treatment. . 4. Of ulcers failing to heal from peculiarity of action, the treatment consists it using local and constitutional remedies, according to their general features—according as they belong to either ot the classes already described (sores failing to hea from excess or defect of action) plus the special remedy which the " peculiarity " demands. Thus the "scrofulous" ulcer requires the employment of al! those hvgienic measures, as to diet, exercise, country air," sea-bathing, &c. which have so great an influence in controlling the constitutional dyscrasia on which these ulcers depend ; together with the administration of alteratives, cod-hver oil iodine, iron, phosphorus, &c. as is usual in such cases, while the sore itself generally requires stimu- lation. A wash of chlorate of potash alone or combined with an astringent is frequently useful; as is iodine also, and tannin with red wine, but the constitutional error is the key to the presence and treatment of these ulcers. The digestive or- gans are usually weak and deranged, and their function must be corrected. If there is bone disease it must be looked to ; and if the skin sur- rounding the sore is much diseased, it is, perhaps, best to destroy it wholly by caustic or a blister, and start with a fresh surface. The deformed and unsightly cicatrices may be corrected by the appli cation of iodine or blistering liquid, carefully watched, so as not to overdo their action, or, what is often better, when circumstances (position, ex- tent, state of surrounding parts, &c.) admit, excise cicatrix, and bring the lips accurately and the carefully together. Chlorinated washes will im- prove their colour in many cases. The " syphilitic" ulcer. The constitutional treatment of secondary and tertiary syphilis is carefully considered in its own place in this work, and to that the reader is referred. The ulcers with which we have to deal are usually accom- paniments of the tertiary stage, and thus iodide of potash or iron become the most valuable remedies for internal use, while the local lesion is treated according to its characters. If any inflammation be present, it must be subdued, and then applications of a soothing or stimulating nature employed, according to the need of the sore. If a stimulant is wanted, any metallic lotion is just as good as black wash, to which preference is commonly given from some obscure idea of its peculiar appropriateness to a syphilitic sore. These ulcers are very apt to recur, and the part should therefore be long supported by a bandage, and the vigour of the general system well sustained. The " vicarious " or " hasmorrhagic " ulcer, if dependent on irregularity in the uterine function, will require such irregularity to be corrected before the local affection can be set right. Beyond this, it demands such measures as its character at the time indicate,—according as it fails to heal from excess or defect of action. For mere bleeding, as from the erosion of a blood-vessel, elevatioii and compression by proper bandaging is what is re- quired. The treatment of " cancerous " ulcers is more properly taken up in the Article on " Cancer." The'" glanderous" ulcer is also considered with the constitutional disease of which it forms an important part. The "mercurial" nicer requires stimulation locallv, according to its degree of want of vitality, and the intemafuse of tonics, especially iron with the iodide of potash, and every means to improve the general health. The " gouty " ulcer, besides the internal remedies which the diathesis lacks, will heal best by the local use of a gentle stimulant dressing, but other- wise they must be managed on general principles according to their individual requirements. If there is much local gouty deposit the ulcer will rarely heal till the whole of that material has been extruded. The "scorbutic" ulcer, besides the remedies addressed to the constitution, will require astrin- gents and stimulants as a rule, together with water strapping and careful bandaging. Sometimes the local treatment is better begun by the free destruc- tion of the sore with nitric acid, especially it it shows a tendency to sloughing ; lotions, contain- ing iron, chlorate of potash, citric acid, aromatic infusions, &c. The pulp of the lemon is a favourite application with some, as is animal charcoal with others. These sores will disappear with the gene- ral constitutional disease on which they depend, but they are very apt to reappear on any failure of the general health. The "ec7.ematous" or " dartrous " nicer must be treated, so far as the sore is concerned, accord- ing to its condition and tendencies, but the eczema which surrounds it, and which gives to the afteet on when seated on the leg, the common designation ot the "weeping leg," is in g^"':'"='l', ; ."7dr\ as severe, siiccessfuUytreated by being kept as d y as possible, by the application of some absoibent