38i OPHTHALMOSCOPE cup for the eye of the observer may be unscrewed, and its place supplied bj' a smaW telescope. In a normal or emmetropic eye, parallel incident rays nrc brought to a focus upon the retina. If light be thrown into such an eye, the rays become parallel upon their exit from it ; and the telescope must be adjusted as if for the inspection of an object in inhnite distance, while for far or near sight, the ocular must be more or less pushed in or with- drawn. For examination of the cornea, iris, or lens, the ocular tube must be drawn farther out, and the telescope used only as a magnifier. In comparing the merits and disadvantages of this instrument, the same may be said as in the case of Ulrich's ; only that Meyerstein's is more difficult to handle, that the great distance of the observer's eye from the mirror considerably dim- inishes the field of vision, and that its power of illumination is altogether insufficient. (6) Convex mirror in combination with a con- vex lens. T/ie Ophtlialmoscope of Zeliender.—It is a small convex mirror, placed on a short handle, and fur- nished with two lateral moveable arms, one of which carries the collecting lens, and the other a spring-clip for any ocular lens that may be needed. The handle is moveable, and can be screwed into the margin of the mirmv at two opposite points, so as to turn the collecting lens to the right or the left at pleasure. The handle, acting as a lever, is apt to increase the very slight movements of the collecting lens that are often needed ; and hence Arlt has" dispensed with the handle entirely, and perhaps with some advantage, holds the instrument by one point, on the arm that carries the collecting lens. By this the size of the case is conveniently diminished, and the instrument, with its six neces- sary lenses, is rendered extremely portable. The mirror consists of a circular, highly polished plate of metal, having a curvature of 6" radius. It is pierced in the centre by an opening, funnel- shaped from behind forwards, with a sharp edge, and with a diameter on the reflecting surface of l-i.'". The focal length of the collecting lens may be from 1" or H" to 2" or even 3". ■if a con- cave or convex ocular lens be required in the ex- amination, it may be plnced in the second arm, which is furnished with a spring-clip and two joints, so that it may be turned behind the opening of the mirror, and so close to it as to be almost in the same place. , i > The optical principles on which this ophthalmo- scope depends are briefly as follows : convergent ravs of light, falling upon a convex mu-ror, are re- flected pnrallel to the axis of the mirror, provided their degree of convergence be such that they would unite, if prolonged, at the extremity of its radius of curvatiue, in the so-called imaginary focus ot the mirror itself, but, if they would intersect, or unite in the axis of the mirror, between it and its imaginary focus, diverjient, and consequently their convergence or divergence increases the farther their point of intersection of the axis of the mirror is distant from the fixed extiemity of us radius of curvature. It should be further remarked, that in Zehender's instrument tiiere is no loss of light from the canal of the perforatinn; and also tliat re- fleciion from tlie cornea is reduced to a miiiliuiiiu. The adviiniages mentioned in the lust parajirapii are obtained equally from the oplilhalnioacopes ol Coccius and Liebreich, which are now universally made with metallic mirrors, and with sharp margins to their central apertures. The instru- ments of Coccias and Zeliender, moreover, are frequently seen in more convenient forms than those described in the text, and so much alike as to be onlv distinguishable by inspection of ti.e mirror, which is fixed in a bronze setting with a small spring-clip for ocular lenses, as in Liebreich's small ophthalmoscope. The setting is attached to a sliort handle, and at the point of junction there is a double-jointed rod, about two inches in length, turning either to the right or left, and carrying the collecting lens in a clip at its extremity. Besides the mirror and collecting lens, the cases commonly sold contain an olijective and five oculars; 'the former 11" bi-convex, the latter 12" bi-convex; and 6", 8", 10", and 12" bi- concave. (c) Silvered Glass Lenses as OpMalnioscnpns.— The chief purpose of silvered lenses is to unite together the reflector and the collecting lens. In describing the conditions under which this modi- fication is available I follow cliiefly the statement of Hasner. Every ordinary lens transmits only a portion of the light that it receives. A second portion is absorbed, a third is reflected, partly from the anterior, and partly from the posterior surface. The reflection, however, under ordinary circumstances, is so small, that it is insufficient for the illumination of an ej-e. But if one surface of the lens be covered with silver, or with quicksilver amalgam, the reflection becnmes, under certain condkions, so considerable, as to aff'ord as much illumination as the ordinary plane, or even the cone ive mirror. The direction of the rays reflected from silvered lenses is verv variable, and is determined not only by the radii of curvature of the covered and of the uncovered surfaces, but also by the power of refraction of the glass of which the lens is formed. T/ie OpMhahnoscope of J'dger.—As a simple oph- thalmoscope, Jager recommends a lens, the silvered and the anterior surfaces of which possess difterent curvatures; so that according as the centres of curvature lie upon the same or on different sides of the lens, the reflected rays that pass through its unsilvered central portion are refracted at their exit bv the necessarv concave or convex surface. The liiiiTor is either furnished with trunnions, to be placed in Jager's instrument already described, or with a simple handle, so that it may be used as a lorgnette. T/ie Ophthalmoscope of Klaunig.—Tlm consists of a double convex glass of U" focal length, having a diameter of 35 millimetres, and ac-ntral blackened perforation with a diameter of 4:^- mil- limetres. On one side this glass is silvered as a p.irror, and it is set in a blackened bt;ass capsule. A handle, which screws into one side ot this capsule, may by practice be easily dispensed witJi As, in perforating the lens, the canal is oft nnuide too large, and the examination, theref.ue rende ed difiicult, Klaunig has, recently, only ^^'J^ cover, ..ud has "M-laced the opeiimit bv a ecu ca^^^ lens o{ 12" focal length, placed behind the si ver- ing and united with the convex K-ns in a horn '""mm 1 = nnnlv to the use of these mirrors The same rules nppl> to ini- „9 to the exaniinntioM in general, fo make the observation le»s fatiguing, and the images per.