570 SCURVY. well effected by the subsequent granulation and cicatrization. The neiglibouriiig inteyimtent is gf I eraily unsound, and il preserved is liable to be tlie seat ot'n recurrence of the diseafe. To attempt, tlierefore, to preserve it is as useless as dangerous; anil un o|)eration wiiicii, in tiie experienced hands of Mr. Key, occupied an liour and three-quarters (vide Chelius, by South), may be performed more satialactoriiy, and with greater safety to the patient, in a few niimites. In the removal of the largest of these growths, I may add that should tlie effort to preserve the testes be found to prolong the opera- tion beyond from three to five minutes, the attempt should be desisted from, and the whole remaining mass swept away as quickly as possible. " It is remarkable how little deformity results. The genital organs, after the operation, differ but little in appearance from the normal condition of tiie pints, slight retraction of the penis, and a con- tracted state of the scrotum, being the only changes perceptible."] Larrey, M^m. deChir. Militaire, t.ii.p. 110,et seq. Rv lteiaiid, Nosoarapliie; Cliir. t. ii. p. 314, &c. e<l. 4. Delonnes' Mem. &c. Cheslon's Case, &c. Med. Cliir. Tmiis. vol. vi. Delpech, Chirurgie Clinique, t. ii. 4to. 1828; p. 289. R. Liston's I'ractical Surgery, 8vo. Lond. 1837. [Brett, a practical Essay on Surgical Diseases in India, 1840. J'aj/rer, Un Surgical Dis- eases of India, 1867.] [SCURVY or SCORBUTUS. German, schar- bnck; Saxon, scoibie; Dutch, scheubuck; Swedish, skorbjuag; Danish, skiirburg; a Latinised variety of the last three words, or the Sclavonic word Scorb witlj a Laiin termination. A result of prolonged abstinence from vegetable food, accelerated by bad diet; moisture, and any other depressing circumstances that tend to lower the average standard of health, inducing swollen and spongy gums, discoloratinns more or less extensive, resembling bruises, about the legs and thighs, a brawny hardness about the hamstring muscles and those of the calf, with omtraction of the lower limbs, and an invariable condition of great physical debility. The disease is very vaguely described by the" early writers, and it is uncertain wliether or not Hippocrates recognised it. There is no doubt that scorbutus, or scurvy, was endemic in many countries prior to the advancement of civi- lisation, and the increased cultivation of fruits and vegetables gradually causcd its disappearance. The most distinct descriptions of scurvy are found in the annals of niedico-niiliiai-y historians, and we may read of its ravages in the army of Louis XL in E.jvpt in 1260, among the besieged at Breda, Nnrih Brabant, in 1625, at Thom in Prussia in 1703, among the Austriansarid Turks in Ilungary in I 720, among the garrison at Quebec in 1 760, at the siege of Alexandria in 1801, at the Cape of Good Hope in 11536, and lastly in Bulgaria and the Crimea during the cmiflict between Russia and the allied armies of Kngland, France and Turkey. Leland also suffered severely from the presence of this disease among her people during the potato famine of 1847. The evidence of all historians who relate particulars of scurvy as it existed during the campaigns above-mentioned, goes to prove that this disease killed more men than any other ma- lady, or than the engines of war. Scurvy has been, from the earliest times, a loathsome enemy to sailors, and from the beginning of the fifteenth century to the present time, detailed accounts have been written of its direful and fatal effectf. The primary and exciting cause of scurvy is most un- doubtedly prolonged abstinence from vegetable diet; and Parkes says that, though a want of fresh vegetables is not invariably followed by scurvy, this want is the only invariable antecedent of the disease. Trotter says tl at scurvy can come on under an exclusively vegetalile diet, if the vege- tables be not fresh. Authors disagree as to pre- disposing causes of the disease, but it appears that insufficiefit ventilation of dwelling-places, wet clothes, dirty habits, an inactive life and tempera- ment, and most atonic diseases, predispose to scurvy. Garrod says that solitary cases of scurvy are occiisionally found in the upper classes, the subjects thereof having, with some definite object, carefully avoided all fruits and vegetables. The precursory signs somewhat resemble those of simple sub-acute rheumatism. The feet and legs are sometimes oedematous, and, according to Blane, suppression of perspiration and paucity of urine are among the earliest indications of scurvy. But the distinctive symptoms above mentioned are all- sufficient to diagnose this disease. There is also a great tendency to syncope in assuming even the semi-recumbent position, and patients received into hospital when suffering from severe attacks of scurvy, have occasionally, in the absence of the nurse, sat upright in bed, and so induced fatal fainting. Haemorrhage, properly so called, exists as a concomitant of the malady much less frequently than is generally supposed, and severe epistaxis or ha;matemesis is, as a rule, very unusual. But the gums are sometimes so much swollen as to conceal the teeth, and large portions now and then become detached. A case occurred in the practice of Mr. Busk, now honorary surgeon, and formerly sur- geon, to the Dreadnought Hospital Ship, in which the gums of the upper jaw had met in the centre of the mouth, and grown together, forming a kind of bridge or false membrane below the hard palate. The skin seldom suffers solution of continuity, but old wounds and ulcers will reopen, and the latter soon become occupied with foul fungous-looking ex- crescences, that have not unfrequently been diag- nosed as the results of malignant disease. The appetite is unusually good, and in uncomplicated scurvy, severe diarrhoea is the e.vception rather than the rule.. Node-like swellings frequently appear on the tibia, and more rareiy over the other long bones; these nodes are exquisitely tender, and in- dicate seats of effusion between the periosteum and the bone. According to Parkes, the temperature of the body in scurvy is lower than usual, and there is great disorder of the respiratory functions; but general clinical observations of about 300 cases on board the Dreadnought, does not tend to con- firm the latter of these opinitms. Pericarditis and hemeralopiaare of occasional but by no means fre- quent occurrence in scurvy, and many other concomi- tant symptoms are described as more or le8> con- stant, for scurvy so frequently complicates, that it has been often confounded with, other diseases. The nervous system remains unchanged. All processeJ af repair appear to be perverted. Fractures occur- ring in scorbutic patients unite very slowly, no healthv process of reparation appearing to com- mence' until the symptoms of scurvy have disap- peared. The tendency in old fractures to become disunited when scurvy supervenes is mentioned by Budd, Lind, and others, but evidence on this poiut