] LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OF. tlie symptoms enable ns to determine the nature of the disease," and though in some few cases it has succeeded even at the last moment, yet its success will be more and more put in jeopardy the longer the delay. So soon as the windpipe is opened below the obstruction, and air readmitted into the labouring lungs, the great source of immediate danger is overcome, and time is afforded for reme- dies to act on the swelled and infiltrated tissues. In order to reduce the effusion, mercury in small doses, and counter-irritation to the Sides of the larynx and to the back of the neck, as well as to the upper part of the chest, come into use, the latter measure being especially called for if bronchitis succeed the laryngitis, as is too often the case. The effects which have followed the local appli- cation of strong caustic solutions in cases of acute laryngitis, have been such as not to warrant the employment of this mode of treatment. It need hardly be added that all depletive measures, and the administration of mercury, must be (avoided in that consecutive form of acute laryngitis which follows asthenic complaints, or when the patient's constitution is bad or depressed, or the disease rapidly takes on a low asthenic form in consequence of a prevailing epidemic. Suh-acute, Asthenic, or CEdematous Laryngitis.— The " angine infiltro-laryngee " of Sestier, " la- ryngite sous-muqueuse " of Cruveihlier. In each of these designations, except the first, the pathological featxires of this affection are ex- pressed, and these have been already explained. In sub-acute laryngitis, the signs of inflammation are but little pronounced. The mucous membrane of the larynx and the epiglottis seems often little reddened or injected, at other times it assumes the dark hue indicative of low inflammatory action. Here the sub-mucous tissue gets loaded with effused fluid, consisting of either serum alone, or serum mingled in varying proportions with pus or blood. Although probably recognised from remote pe- riods it was not till the beginning of this century that this form of laryngitis attracted much notice in modern times, but since attention was promi- nently drawn to it many have contributed to its investigation. It is to the rapid and great effusion into the sub-mucous areolar tissue of the larynx that cedema- tous laryngitis owes its extreme danger and fatality. The narrow chink of the glottis cannot at best admit of much curtailment, and when the lips of the glottis become tumid and project into the canal of the windpipe, a formidable mechanical obstacle exists to the entrance of air into the lungs. In propor- tion to the rapidity and extent of the effusion will be the danger, as, when the obstacle forms slowly, the lungs adapt themselves in some measure to the diminished supply, but wlicn the orifice is rapidly closed, the effects are very serious indeed. The effusion referred to is chiefly apparent at the edges of the glottis, on the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis and behind the thyroid cartilage, and it is sharply limited below by the vocal cords. It is this form of laryngitis which is seen to attend erj'sipelas and low inflammatory affections of the throat, and it is such cases, especially if protracted, which are attended with purulent or semi-purulent effusions. The symptoms are at first referred to the throat and the respiration. There U little pain oven upon 182 pressure, and almost no general fever till the later stages, when a low irritative form of fever appears. The dyspnoea, however, soon becomes urgent, even more so than in acute laryngitis, on account of the greater eftusion. There is an irritating hawking cough, and a constant endeavour to remove thereby, or by deglutition, some adherent mucus, which the patient supposes obstructs the air-tube, and is the cause of his uneasiness. The voice gets hoarse or suppressed, and while inspiration is much interfered with, expiration is comparatively easy. Dysphagia is not always present. The epiglottis, though not always swollen, can frequently be felt to be so when the finger is introduced into the throat. When swollen, it has been well likened to a cherry, so round, hard, and red does it become. Tha glottis, too, can sometimes be felt tense and tumid, from infiltration. Death, which is frequently due to sudden spasm, takes place much in the same way and in the same time, as was stated to be the case with regard to acute laryngitis. When sub-acute laryngitis is a primary affection, it may come on very suddenly; but when it is secondary or consecutive, it may become estab- lished much more slowly. Middle-aged persons of a plethoric and weakly habit of body, are those most liable to be attacked. The statistics of Valleix and Sestier show how fatal an affection this is. Of 40 cases related by the former, 31 died; and of 168 recorded by the latter, 127 died. The disease, when it follows erysipelas, low fever, or diffuse inflammation, is almost certainly fatal. The constitution and state of health of the patient and the rapidity of the seizure will also throw light on the prognosis. The diagnosis is not usually diflSicult. The throat affection appearing in adults during or after a low asthenic form of inflammation or fever, its being marked by a feeling of obstruction, which the patient vainly tries to overcome by swallowing and hawking; its not being accompanied by pain or acute inflammatory fever, the recognition of the enlarged and tumid epiglottis by the finger, and the increasing obstruction to the respiration, and, ultimately, the interference with the due arterialisa- tion of the blood. From true croup and spasmodic croup it is distinguished by the age of the patients affected, by the inspiratory efforts being alone affected, and by the results of digital examination. Aneurisms of the great vessels at the root of the neck giving rise to somewhat similar laryngeal symptoms may be recognised by careful ausculta- tion, and the signs of pressure on surrounding parts which such tumours occasion. The key to the treatment lies in the due recog- nition of the source and cause of danger, and the adynamic nature of the affection. Patients affected with this form of laryngitis are generally so weak and depressed that they cannot admit any delay in the treatment, and consequently very prompt attention is called for. As general remedies, blood- letting cannot be employed beyond the application of a few leeches to the throat, but purgatives and blisters (to the side and back of the neck, or upper part of the chest) at the outset may be tried, not, however, with any great hope of success, as safety lies in bronchotomy alone. Tartar emetic is not now emploj'ed, and mercury cannot be used in the cachectic subjects we have generally to deal with. If at all of use, it can only be after the brunt of