OVARIOTOMY. 418 had remained patent, serious lifcmorrhage might follow incision or division of the round ligament. A very large cyst may be removed through an incision three inches long, and an incision five inches long is amply sufficient for the removal of very large tumors, provided each cyst be with- drawn as it is emptied, or groups of smaller cysts be withdrawn one after another. Sometimes, how- ever, the tumor is composed of small trabeculated loculi, filled with a very thick viscid colloid sub- stance. In some such cases it may be possible to diminish the bulk of the tumor by breaking _ it up internally and pressing out the contents without rupturing the outer or larger cyst ; but in other cases it may be preferable to enlarge the opening and remove the tumor entire. The incision should at first be carried through the skin and the subcutaneous layer of fat, which will be found of varying thickness. Very little bleed- ing is to be apprehended, and any from unusually large vessels may be easily arrested by bull-dog forceps. As the scalpel divides the deeper layers of the abdominal wall and approaches the peri- toneum, greater caution will be required. Then layer after layer ought to be successively raised and a broad director introduced, upon which the incision should be carried upwards and downwards with a probe-pointed bistoury. If, as is usually the case, the linea alba is the place chosen for the incision, the following ana- tomically distinct layers will be met with :— (a) The skin. (i) The subcutaneous areolar tissue with fat of varying thickness. (c) The conjoined and interwoven fibres of the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles, which con- stitute the linea alba. (d) The fascia transversalis, which consists of several strata and is rich in adipose tissue. The uppermost stratum firmly adheres to the linea alba The deepest layer under normal conditions is only loosely connected with the parietal peritoneum. (e) The peritoneum. But the surgeon must not always expect to find this normal arrangement. It will often happen that if a greater number of strata must be divided, the several layers of the fascia are separated by serous infiltration or other intervening exudations, or there will be fewer strata if they have been aeglutinated by previous inflammatory processes, " When the incision has been carried down to the peritoneum, the wound must be carefully cleaned from the blood with soft sponges, and any vessels of which the bleeding has not been arrested by torsion or the temporary application of " bull- dogs," are to be secured by ligatures. The next step will be the division of the peritoneum with the probe-pointed bistoury or the broad director, as already described. When ascitic fluid surrounds the tumor, some of it may be allowed to escape ; but the tumor should be pressed forward by an assistant to retain a sufficient quantity of the fluid till the last as a protection to the intestines. Separation of the Cysl. — Before any further interference witli or puncturing of the cyst—and taking care not to rupture it accidentally, lest some of its contents might escape into the abdo- minal cavity—the right hand of the operator should be introduced between the cyst and the abdominal ■wall, with the palmar surface against the tumor and the fingers slightly curved bo as to adapt the shape of the hand to the convexity of the cyst. In this manner the outer surface of the tumor may be examined with comparative ease, and any adhesions discovered will, if not too firm, readily yield to semicircular movements of the hand. If they do not yield easily, it is better to empty the , cyst before attempting to separate them than to run any risk of rupturing the cyst and allowing the contents to escape into the peritoneal cavity. Adhe- sions to the omentum or intestines, especially those at the posterior wall of the cyst, are also better left until the cyst is emptied and the adherent viscera can be seen. Having found that the tumor is free from ad- hesions, or having freed it from its parietal adhe- sions, or having decided to empty the cyst, it should be tapped by a large syphon-trocar. This instrument, with its latest improvements, consists of three separate parts—a tubular trocar, a hooked canula, and an elastic tube. The trocar is a silver tube five inches long and one-third of an inch in diameter, with cutting end made of steel, one and a half inch long. Its whole length will therefore be six and a half inches. It termi- nates at an angle of 45°; the outline of its edge not representing a circle but an ellipsis, the smaller segment of which forms the sharp point of the in- strument. ,Two inches from its opposite end a thumb-piece is fixed vertically to the side of the tube, which fits into a longitudinal slit of the canula, and serves for pushing the trocar forwards or retracting it. The outer tube or canula is five and a half inches long, and is furnished with two spring hooks, which, when closed, fit with their five sharp steel prongs into corresponding holes of the canula, two inches from its open end. They serve for keeping the cyst from gliding off the canula while the fluid is running oflr. From its blunt end a slit wide enough to receive the thumb-piece of the trocar extends two inches in longitudinal direction, and bends in a right angle sufficiently to fix the trocar with its point beyond the canula when pushing it into the cyst. To the blunt end of the canula is fixed a syphon-tube of vulcanised india-rubber about three feet long, thi-ough which the fluid con- tents of the cyst are conducted into foot-pans or pails placed under the operator's table. By this arrangement the fluid is prevented from wetting the patient or her clothes. The trocar ought to be pushed into the most prominent part of the cyst, if simple ; if multi- locular, into that chamber which is likely to con- tain the largest quantity of fluid. After a portion of the latter has been drained off, and the cyst has become more flaccid, the point of the trocar is to be drawn within the canula by means of the thumb-piece, and the cyst drawn higher up over the canula by means of hooks or a tenaculum, and fixed between the prongs of the spring hooks, which, if properly adjusted, will hold the cyst- wall tightly around the canula. After the first loculu3°has been emptied, a second, a third, and more if necessary, may be tapped successively with- out removing the ca)iula from its hold, merely by pushing the trocar forward and thrusting it through the septum which separates the emptied from the adificent full loculus. In this manner the whole tumor may be emptied of its fluid contents and its bulk so reduced that it may be drawn through