TRIES OF THE. 728 THORAX, INJl emaciation, in all likelihood, as well as purulent expectoration. If the pus has formed after a penetrating wound, there will very likely be air in the upper part of the chest, shown by a clear note on percussion. The intercostal muscles maybe so thinned as to allow the fluid to point, when an ex- ploring needle may be used if necessary (which it very seldom is), but its use should be avoided unless preliminary to evacuating the fluid. An cedema- tous condition of the parietes on the affected side is common in empyoema. If the cavity is half full of pus, and air is also present, then probably "metallic tinkle" will be observed, and "am- phoric resonance," too, may be obtained. It is in pus collections that " succussion" is best made out. If the collection of pus be circumscribed, and point on the left side, the heart may communicate to it such a pulsation as to lead to the mistaken inference that we have an aneurism or malignant tumour to deal with; but the absence of the bruit and thrill of a vascular tumour, the history of its rise and progress, the evident fluctuation, and the results of percussion, will aid the distinction. Accumulations of fluid in the chest, if consider- able and causing annoyance, demand relief either by the enlargement of the original wound, or by puncture. If the fluid points, it will be drawn off' there, or if not, then at the usual place of elec- tion, viz. between the 7th and 8th ribs, counting from above and two inches behind their angle. The fluid should be removed before the lung gets bound down and hopelessly solidified, and some contrivance (such as Thomson's Trocar) should be used, which will remove the fluid and yet exclude air. Wounds in the lung substance may heal very rapidly bj' cicatrisation and the contraction of ad- hesion to the pleura costalis; yet, as has been said, such wounds are so liable to serious complications, that they are always dangerous, and deserve a most guarded prognosis. Chronic disease, contraction of the side of the chest, phthisis, necrosis of a rib, and fistulous openings, are among the possible eventuali- ties. These fistulous tracts will demand fixture of the part, and pressure; injections of a stimulating character, or counter openings, or being entirely slit up before they heal. If they are connected with a dead piece of bone, that will be required to be got rid of before the fistula will close. The Pericardium may be injured in penetrating wounds of the chest, and the heart escape. Such wounds are of course rare, and peculiarly danger- ous, not only immediately but also subsequently, from inflammation. They are not alvvaj's fatal. Blood may be so poured out as to fill the pericar- dium, and fatally embarrass the action of the heart. When such effusion has taken place, the heart's sounds will be greatly obscured, and percussion will elicit a dull note over the prascordium, and there may even be a bulging of that part observed. If inflauiniation follows, and the eft'iision is consi- , derable, the friction sounds produced by that con- dition may be obscured. In general, however, when the pericardium is implicited, the heart and other important structures are also injured. When ihe Heart is wounded, a rapidly fatal termination is the tisual result, yet very remarkable exceptions to this rule are on record both in mili- ti>ry .and civil practice. Dupuytren, Breschet, and others have recorded instances of survival after most serious wounds of this important organ, and many interesting and curious circumstances have been related by Ollivier, Jamain, Purple, Sanson, and others. These wounds may penetrate or not; the coronary artery may or may not be opened; and the result will in a great measure de- pend on these circumstances, but the size, direc- tion, depth, position, &c. of the wound, will greatly influence the effect fis favouring or opposing ha- raorrhage. Wounds of the auricles are the most fatal, but it is the right ventricle wliich is most fre- quently the part wounded. The substance of the heart, either in its external surface or its sep- tum, may be pierced without a necessarily fatal effect. Balls are said to have been even lodged in the cavities of the heart without producing immediate death, and to have remained encysted in the walls for years. In one remarkable case, the heart is alleged to have been traversed from side to side, and yet the patient survived for some time; and Gross relates a case in which a ball, having penetrated the right ventricle, was found after death (97 hours afterwards) in the inferior cava. The heart is occasionally lacerated by fractured ribs. The writer has in his possession the heart of a female where the apex was fairly torn open in this way, under his own eye, by a cab running over her in the street. Death in that case was almost instantaneous. There was no wound or even mark on the external surface of the chest. It seems possible for an incised wound of the heart to heal rapidly and allow of complete recovery. Wounds of the heart are generally followed by immediate and violent shock, in which the powers of life are reduced to the lowest ebb. Alarming fainting, dyspnoea, extreme anxiety, pain behind the sternum, paleness and coldness of the surface, smallness and irregularity of the pulse, dulness on percussion over the region of the heart, &c., are the common effects, but they are subject to great va- riety, and occasionally, even in desperate cases, the immediate consequences are very slight, and so most deceptive. Death may be due to the inten- sity of the shock, or result from liajmorrhage, or it may arise afterwards from inflammation if the patient survive some time. The bleeding m.ay take place into the cavity of the pericardium, or into the pleura, or it may escape externally by the wound, and in this last event its violence will probably be distinctive. No attempt should be made by probing to determine accuratelj' the na- ture of the lesion, as such a step would be most dangerous, and may destro)'any slight chance that remains of saving or prolonging life. From the direction of the wound and its effects we are usually able to surmise with accuracy wiiat injury has been sustained. A peculiar tremulous and tumultuous sound is said to have been noticed in instances of wounded heart, but few cases admit of any accurate observations being made on this point As to treatment, little can be said except that the shock, hfemorrhage, &c., must be managed on general principles. The recumbent position must be carefully retained, and over stimulation during the stages of collapse avoided if htemorrhage is to be apprehended. Heat should bo cautiously ap- plied to the surface, an enema containing aromatic spirit of ammonia administered, quietness, cool air, and careful watching while the collapse conti-