Witli respect to syphilitic disease of the throat, I have already noticed Mr. Hunter's description of what he considered as its appearance, viz. " a fair loss of substance, part being dug out, as it were, from the body of the tonsil, with undermined edges. This is commonly very foul, having white thick matter adhering to it like a slough, which cannot be washed away."" Dr. Colles, and others, also regard this as the type of genuine venereal sore-throat; but, as he observes,." however strongly the characters of the ulcer may be marked, we must not rely solely on the present appearances ; we should trace back the history nf the existing disease, hiok to the interval which has elapsed, inquire into the premonitory symptoms, as also into the treatment employed for the cure of the primary disease. (Op. cit. p. 121.) It is well ascertained that the genuine venereal ulcer of the throat will heal without mercury; and I have cured it, in many instances, merely with sarsaparilla and iodide of potassium, or nitric acid. Entertaining a firmer reliance,,however, in the efficiency of mercurj-, the greater number of surgeons have recourse to it as the favourite remedj' in the case before us. Here Dr. Colles deems it necessary, ia general,, to keep the system under the influence of mercury for eight or ten weeks ; "and (saya he) I would abstain from local appli- cations to the ulcer, as the changes which the latter undergoes will, in various instances, assist us in discovering when merenry is beginning to disagree with the system. Besides, we must be guiiJed in our opinion as to the proper, duration of the mercurial course, by a reference to the period of the liealing in. the throat." (P. 122.) A vene- real ulcer of the throat is sometimes so placed as to be concealed. The most common situation of such hidden sore is on the- back of the pharynx, where it is- prevented from being seen by the inter- position of the velum pendulum paljti. " We should therefore desire the patient to inspire as fully as be can in attempting this, he raises the velum, and if we look into the pharynx,^ we shall then generally discover, the lower part of an ulcer. This, of course, leads us to make a more full examination, and to effect this we must depress the tongue, and, with a curved probe, raise up the velum. The ulcer, which-now becomes more fully exposed to view, is of a circular form, is sunk deep in the substance of the phiirynx ; the surface is rather foul, bat not at all sloughy;, and the sur- rounding infkmmation extends a very short dis- tance beyond the margin, of the ulcer.Under these circumstances. Dr. Colles is. an advocate for rubbing the entire surface of the ulcer with muri- ate of antimony, which is to be applied by means of a little lint, rolled pretty firmly on the eye-end of an aneurism-needle, and dipped in the liquid. (Ahr. Colles, p. 124.) I liave usually employed, for the same purpose, the diluted or undiluted nitrous acid, and sometimes strong solutions of creosote, and nitrate of silver. Frequently a venereal ulcer of the throat is situated below the level of the base of the tongue, and, if not detected and treated properly, it may spread to the sides and top of the larynx, and cause m'schief, too often ending fatally. According to Dr. Colles, " the ulcer, low down in the back of the pharynx, generally pre.sent8 a foul, and sometimes a sloughy, surface, seldom assum- ing the venereal characters described by Hunter; VENEREAL DISEASE. 951 and has this remarkable feature, that its lower edge is very deep, while the upper part of the ulcer is very superficial. A pretty constant symptom complained of by the patient is, that when he attempts to take any food, the morsel stops at a certain point, and can only be pot down by his taking after it a sip of liquid." (Op. cit. p. 125.) Dr. Colles rubs this ulcer also with the muriate of antimony. Another position, specified by Dr. Colles as one where an ulcer may be placed, is close to the in- sertion of the anterior palatine arch into the tongue; and the sore is detected in attempting to depress the tongue with a spatula. The ulcer is deep and foul, but not at all sloughy; and "'• whether it be seated on the dorsum, or near the edge of this fold, its exqui&ite sensibility should be immediately de- stroyed by touching the surface with a strong solution of nitrate of silver, or with muriate of antimony."' " In a few instances, the voice of the patient is rendered very nasal,, and this, sometimes, even on the first appearance of the venereal sore throat and eruption; and yet) neither the situation, nor the conditipn of the ulcer, visible in the fauces, will enable us to account for this symptom. In this form of the disease-, we fi^nd that the patient not only suffers severe pain in any attempt to swallow, but he is also teazed by frequent desire to draw down the mucus from the back of the nares; and this secretion, when coughed out, is often found slightly tinged with blood. A smart degree of fever is also generally present. The ulcer, in this case, is seated behind the velum, high up in the angle between the upper and back part of the pharynx, or at the junction of its occipital and vertebral portions." Dr. Colles recommends rubbing such ulcer with a solution of 3j. of nitrate of silver in gj. of water, by means of lint, wjapped round the end of a silver aneurism-needle ; care being taken to pass one end of the lint through th« eye, in order to prevent it from slipping off the needle. When the ulcer is situated on the posterior sur- face of the velum (rather an uncommon case). Dr. Colles observes that we are informed of it, not only by an appearance of thickening, together with a flush of redness , on,, the anterior surface of the velum, which appeaijSMice corresponds to the seat of the ulcer, but by carrying behind the veliun an aneurism-needle, wrapped round with lint, and rubbing it on the suspected point; when, if there be an ulcer, the lint, on. beinq wit'idrawn, will be found covered with the di-charge. Here, also. Dr. Colles deems the. inunediate application of liquid caustics, to, the^ ulcer indispensable. Every surgeon of any experience must have repeatedly seen a condition of the mucous mem- brane of the back of the pharynx, in which it is covered with a thin crust of whitish or j'ellow hardened mucus. The nature of the case is i-eadily ascertained by rubbing olf the mucous crust with a probe wrapped round with lint, and then the membrane is seen perfectly free from ulceration. Like Dr. Colles, I have seen this affection sometimes continue for an extraordinary length of time, and this notwithstanding every variety of treatment. Dr. Colles hiis known some cases much relieved by gargling the throat with sea-water, and some- times apparently cured by sea-bathing ; but he has known both means very frcqui^itly fail. Patients who have venereal sore-throats, not only