TOMY. 242 LIT HO is easy of execution, and well suited for the extrac- tion of very large calculi from the bladder. The patient having been tied up, and a rectangular staff, deeply grooved, passed into the bladder, the urethra is opened at the membranous part, with the edge of the knife turned upwards, as in the median operation. The double lithotome is then slid along the staff into the bladder, its concavity turned downwards, the blades expanded to but a limited extent, and the prostate and the soft struc- tures between it and the surface incised as it is withdrawn. If the stone be of moderate size the incision-may be confined to one side only, and made with a probe-pointed bistoury. It will be found that sufficient space is obtained by the per- pendicular incision in the skin, whilst the limited transverse cut removes that tension and resistance of the deeper structures, which in the ordinary median operation interfere seriously with the ma- nipulation of the forceps and the extraction of the stone, and by the division of both sides of the prostate to a limited extent abundance of space is obtained. (Science and Art ofStirg. p. 1020, vol. iii.) We cannot quite agree with Mr. Erichsen that this is a combination of the median and bilateral operations, because the essential characteristic of the former is the avoidance of any division of the prostate or neck of the bladder. It is, more properly speaking, the bilateral method, with a median first incision instead of a transverse one. It has, moreover, the disadvantage that the external and internal parts of the wound do not correspond in their direction. M. Ne'laton has proposed^ a similar method when speaking of VaccaBerlingheri's median operation: "Should the calculus prove to be larger than it was supposed to be, the incision may be enlarged by means of the lithotome, and the ope- ration be thus transformed from the median into the bilateral."] The double lithotome is now well constructed in London ; and, when the stone is known to be of ample size, the bilateral operation, I think, merits the preference to all ordinary plans. [The blades are made to protrude in such a manner that they cut the prostate obliquely downwards and out- wards on both sides, in which respect the instrument is superior to Sir B. Brodie's double-edged beaked knife for the bilateral section, which made the incisions in the transverse direction.] A pos- thumous work, illustrative of Dupuytren's bilateral operation, and containing several interesting plates, has been published. Mr. Listen is of opinion that no complicated machine is requisite to make this bilateral divi- sion, and that it is quite time enough to make such division when the necessity for it has been ascertained. The single lateral incision affords sufficient room to admit of the removal of the stone in nineteen cases out of twenty, and there can be no purpose served, therefore, m always making a cut in both sides of the gland, and thus endangering the emasculation ot the indi- vidual (0« Pract. Surg. p. 414). I have already explained that several operators are in the habit of cutting the right side of the prostate gland with a knife, when the stone is above a certain size. where the Stone is very large. According to M [Qmdrilateral operation.—Vnier this title M. Vidal de Cassis proposed, in 1028, an extension of Dupuytren's operation, to be resorted to in cases Vidal, the increased size of the stone does not demand an increase in the extent but an increase in the number of the incisions. Thus, for small stones one limited incision is sufficient, iaille iinilaierale; for stones of medium size, two limited incisions are required, taille bilaterale ; for large stones, four limited incisions, iaille quadrilatcrale. ^ In an ordinary case he would adopt Dupuytren's bilate- ral method; but if the stone were so large that, by attempting to overcome the resistance offered by the base of the prostate, the sides and angles of the inci- sion were likely to be dragged upon and torn, he would introduce a blunt-pointed bistoury along the finger into the wound, and divide the prostate obliquely upwardsand outwards.first to the left side (left upper oblique radius), and then to the right (right upper oblique radius). Should he prefer not to release his hold on the stone, he may entrust the forceps to an assistant, and make use of that instru- ment as a guide for the knife in making the incisions. The operation is quadrilateral, therefore, only as regards the prostatic incisions; the external incision is bilateral, and similar to that of Dupuytren's. It was not intended by its author to supersede other methods, but as an adjunct to them, to be resorted to in exceptional and difficult cases—and as such it is highly deserving of commendation. There need be no difficulty in carrying out the_ principle with the ordinary unilateral external incision. A four-bladed lithotome has been devised by M. Co- lombat, but is, we think justl}', condemned by M. Vidal—first, because, in cases of very large stone, nearly filling the vesical cavity, there would often be no room to open the blades ; secondlj-, that in withdrawing the instrument, a quadrilateral exter- nal incision would be made, which is not only not required, but would be very dangerous to all the arteries of the perineum ; and, further, that the quadrilateral section of the prostate should only be regarded as a mode of completing the _ operation when the other incisions prove insufficient, (bee Traitc. de Pathol. Externe, par A. Vidal de Cassis, t. iv. p. 821. Paris, I860.)] Lithotomy through the Rectum. This method may be said to have been first suggested in a work published at Bale, in the sixteenth century, by an author who assumed the name of "Vegetius:" "Jubet per vulnus recti intestini, et vesica; aculeo lapidem ejicere," saj-^ Haller, in speaking of this writer. (BM. Chir, vol. i p 102 "> Frere Come cites an instance in which a recto-vesical fistula was kept up by the presence of a calculus, and cured by extracting the foreign body through the rectum. A fistula in the rectum was laid open by Camper, and a splinter of wood thus removed from the rectum. Recto-vesical fistu aj were several times cured in the Hotel Dieu by Desault, who divided the sphincter so as to form a wound reaching to the perineum. These facts must have been sources of encouragement to the first regular attempts to perform lithotomy from the rectum. According to Clot-Bey, the recto- vesical operation has been performed from timo immemorial in Egypt, where he has seen it prac- tised by empirical persons, to whom a"/•'^l"""'*: a ce wUh the mode of performing it had descended auLi, wiui «.■!<- „,..„orfv of very ancient in- as a species of f^^^^f A^^i'"^ heritance. (^ta A. \ eifcatt, l\uu>.. OpL vol. iii. p. 702.) But the proposal never re-