654 SURGERY. hand, splendid abilities, without experience, can never make a consummate surgeon, any more than a man with the greatest genius for painting can excel in his particular art, without having ex- amined and studied the real objects which he wishes to delineate. In short, as a sensible writer has remarked, "Zes grands chirurgiens sont aussi rares que le genie, h savoir et les iaknts." [Mhn. de I'Acad. de Chir. t. i. Pr^f. p. 41, edit. 12mo.) The description of the qualities which a sur- geon ought to possess, as given by Celsus, is excellent so far as it goes. A surgeon, says he, should be young, or, at any rate, not very old; his hand should be finn and steady, and never shake ; he should be able to use his left hand with as much dexterity as his right ; his sight should be acute and clear ; his mind intrepid and pitiless, so that when he is engaged in doing any- thing to a patient, he may not hurry, nor cut less than he ought, but finish the operation, just as if the cries of the patient made no impression upon him. (A. C. Cein Med. Prcef. ad lib. vii.) By the word '■Hmmisericors^' as Richerand has ob- served {Nosogr. chir. torn. i. p. 42, edit. 2), Cel- sus did not mean that a surgeon ought to be quite insensible to pity ; but that, during the perform- ance of an operation, this passion should not in- fluence him, as all emotion would then be mere weakness. This undisturbed coolness, which is still more rare than skill, is a most valuable quality in the practice of surgery. Dexterity may be acquired by exercise ; but firmness of mind is a gift of nature. Haller, to whom nature was so bountiful in other respects, was denied this quality, as he candidly confesses. " Although (says he) I have taught surgery seventeen years, and exhibited the most difficult operations upon the dead body, I have never ventured to apply a cutting instrument to a living subject, through a fear of giving too much pain." (^Bibl, ohir. 1775, vol, ii.) Surgery may boast of having had an origin that well deserves to be called noble ; for the earliest practice of it arose from the most gene- rous sentiment which nature has implanted in the heart of man—viz., from that sympathetic bene- volence which leads us to pity the misfortunes and sufferings of others, and inspires us with an anxious desire to alleviate them. He who first saw his fellow-creatures suffer, could not fail to participate in their pain, and endeavour to find out the means of affording relief. Opportunities of exercising this useful inclination were never want- ing. In the first ages of the world, man in his destitute state was under the necessity of earning, by force or stratagem, a subsistence which was always uncertain; and in the combats to which this sort of life exposed him, he frequently met with wounds and other injuries. Wherever the chase was followed as a means of livelihood, or amusement; wherever broils and contests occa- sionally arose; wherever man was the same animal which he now is, liable to various diseases and accidental hurts, there must have existed a neces- sity for surgery. Among the ancients, the profession of medicine and surgery constiluted a sacred kind of occupa- tion, and the practice of it belonged only to pri- vileged persons, jEsculapius was the son of Apollo. Ill the armies, the highest princes gloried in dressing the wounds of those who had fought the battles of their countrj'. Amongst the Gre- cians, Podalirius, Chiron, and Machaon were not only distinguished for their valour, but also for their skill in surgery, as we learn from the poem of the immortal Homer, The value which was placed upon the services of Machaon by the Grecian army may well be conceived from the anxiety which it evinced to have him properly taken care of when he was wounded in the shoulder with a dart. " 0 Nestor, pride of Greece (cries Idorae- neus) ! mount, mount upon thy chariot! and let Machaon mount with thee ! Hasten with him to our ships; for a warrior, who knows, as he does, how to relieve pain, and cure wounds, is himself worth a thousand other heroes." (See Iliad, lib, xi.) Hippocrates was one of the first citizens of Greece: he nobly refused all the rich offers of se- veral kings, enemies of his country, to entice him uito their service; and, in particular, he disdained to accept those of Xerxes, whom he regarded as a barbarian. It is in the immortal poems of the Iliad and Odyssey that we find the only certain traditions respecting the state of the art, before the esta- blishment of the republics of Greece, and even until the time of the Peloponnesian war. There it appears that surgery was almost entirely con- fined to the treatment of wounds, and that the imaginary power of enchantment was joined with the use of topical applications. In the infancy of the art, in every nation, the intervention of a superna- tural power is always believed to be combined with what is within the scope of human possibility. The priests of India, the physicians of China and Japan, and the jugglers of the savage or half-civilised tribes of the old and new continents, constantly associate with drugs and manual operations certain mysterious practices, upon which they especially rely for the cure of their patients. Such was also, no doubt, the character of the medicine and surgery of the Egyptians, in the remote times previous to the invention of the alphabet, and upon which so little light is now thrown. From some observations made by the men of science who accompanied the French expedition to Egypt, in 1798, it appears that, amongst the ruins of ancient Thebes, there are documents, fully proving that surgery, in the early time of the Egyptians, had made a degree of progress, of which few of the moderns have any conception. It is noticed by Larrey, that, when the celebrated French General Desaix had driven the Mame- lukes beyond the Cataracts of the Nile, the Com- mission of Arts had an opportunity of visiting the monuments of the famous Thebes, and the re- nowned temples of Tentyra, Karnac, Medinet- Abu, and Luxor, the remains of which still display their ancient magnificence. It is upon the ceilings and walls of these temples that basso-relievos are seen, representing limbs that had been cut off with instruments very analogous to those which are em- ployed at the present day for amputations. The same instruments are again observed in the hiero- glyphics, and vestiges of other surgical operations may be traced, proving that, in these remote periods, surgery had made more progress tlian is often supposed: {Larret/, Mbn. de Our. mhianc, t. i,p.233; t, ii. p. 223.) The mention of Egypt will not permit me to pass on, without oflering a tribute of pra.se to one of the