of S/iarp, Le Bran, Dionh, BertraniH, Pull, Sahalicr, Sriimuclicr, Ilic/iter, Vfusc, Abcriulhij, DesaiUt, Cal- lixeii, liichcraiid. Sir C. Bell ; tlie ildiii. de I'Acad. lie CliinirKie; Hir n. C. Brodie, on Injuries of the ){rnin, in Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. .\iv. A, A. M. L. ^'L•lpc<lu, l)e ('Operation ilu Trypan, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1831 ; and in Nonv. lili^in. de MM. op6v. t. i. J. F. Malgaigne, Maniiel de Mdd. op6r. p. 217. ]2mo. I'aris, 1S37. Vh. Cram/iion, in Dublin Journ. of Med. and Chemical Science, vol. ii.; 8vo. 1832. Professiir Dudleii, in Transylvania Journ. of Medi- cine, No. i. Dr. David L. Rogers, in N. Y. Med. and I'hys. Journ. vol. v. p. 79. R. Liston, on Pract. Surgery, p. 4-1. 8vo. Loud. 1837. TRICHIASIS (derived from S>p\^, the hair) denotes a faulty inclination of the e3'ehishe8 inwards against the globe of the eye. The disease presents itself under two distinct forms : the first is where the hairs turn inwards, without the na- tural position and direction of the tarsus being at all changed; the second consists in a morbid in- clination of the tarsus inwards {EiUropiuni), and consequently of the eyelash towards the eyeball ( Trichiasis). The first form of tills disease is uncommon. The second species or form of trichiasis, or that which consists in a folding inwards of the tarsus and cilia at the same time, is the case which is commonly met with in practice. It may be either complete, affecting the whole of the tar- sus; or incomplete, occupying only a certain portion of the edge of the eyelid, most frequently near the external angle of the eye. Sometimes the disease 33 confined to one eyt^lid ; at other times it affects both; and occasionally the patient is afflicted with it in both eyes. Some writers admit a case, which they call dislrichiasis, and which they suppose to be pro- duced by a double and unusual row of hairs. It may he that although the roots of the cilia appear to be disposed in one line only, they form two, three, and in the upper eyelid even four rows of hairs, unequally situated, and, as it were, confused. AVhenever, therefore, in consequence of disease, a certain number of hairs are separated from each other in a contrary direction and disorderly man- ner, the eyelash will appear to be composed of a new and unusual row of them, while, in fact, there is no change, either with respect to their number or natural implantation. It is not an easy matter to determine precisely, ■what are the causes which sometimes make a few of the hairs deviate from their natural direction, while the tarsus continues in its right position. They are commonly referred to cicatrices in c<m- sequence of previous ulceration, whereby the cilia fall off, and those which are growing are hindered from taking their proper direction. There must, however, be other causes sometimes concerned; for, in the case seen by Scarpa, two or three hairs were turned inwards against the eyeball, although there had been no preccuiing ulceration, nor cicatrices, of any part of the tarsus. Indeed, Scarpa is inclined to believe, that the small ulcers and scars, which lire sometimes formed upon the internal margin of the tarsus, are mora likely to cause the second form of the disease, or the inversion of the edge of the eyelid, and, consequently of the cilia, to- wards the globe of the eye. As those ulcers, when neglected, destroy the iutorna! membrane of the evelids near the tarsus, it necessarily filliiws, that in proportion as they heal and diminish, they draw along wit!i ih.'m ai;d turn iuivards the tarsus TRICIIIASTS. and hairs inserted into it. And since they do not always occupy the whole extent of the internal margin of the eyelid, but are sometimes confined to a few lines in the middle, or extremity, near the external angle of the eyelid, so, after the cica- trices are formed, the whole of the. liairs are not invariably turned inwards, but only a certain number of them, which correspond to the extent of the ulcers previously situated along the internal edge of the tarsus. Indeed, in every case of imperfect trichiasis from a cicatrix of the inner margin of the ej'elid, the tarsus and cilia are everywhere in their natural situation, except opposite the part -vhere the ulcers formerly existed. Also, if the eyelid be everted, its in- ternal membrane, near that part of the margin corresponding to the seat of the trichiasis, will be found pale, rigid, and hardened, the inversion of the cartilaginous border and of the cilia being plainly the effect of the contraction of the cica- trised point. Granular ophtlialmies of long continuance some- times bring on the complaint, in consequence of the skin of the eyelids being kept for a long time in a state of distension and ojdema, terminating in a considerable relaxation of it. The cartilaginous margin of the eyelid then loses the proper support of the integuments, inclines towards the eyeball, and afterwards turns inwards, drawing the eye- lashes along with it in the same improper direction. Long-continued puriform discharges from the glands of the eyelashes likewise spoil the shape and consistence of the cartilage of the eyelid, and therefore not unfrequently occasion trichiasis. The annoyance, which must necessarily result from the hairs perpetually pressing upon the cornea and white of the eye may be easily imagined. _ The evil is rendered still greater by the hairs, which are turned inwards, becom- ing much longer and thicker than those which retam their natural direction. And although the trichiasis be confined to one eve, both theeyea usually suffer from the effects "of the disease. Indeed, generally, the eye on the sound side cannot be moved without occasioning pain in that which is exposed to the irritation and friction of the inflected hairs. In almost all cases, both the eyes are very irritable, and incapable of bearing the light. As, in cases of incomplete trichiasis, the patient retains some little power (if opening the eyelids for the purpose of seeing and that most frequently towards the internal angle of the eyc, the head and neck are often in- clined in an awkward manner, so that in children a distortion of the neck and shoulders is at last produced, which cammt be rectilied without diffi- culty even after the trichiasis has been cured. Un- fortunately, also, children are impatient of the uneasiness arising from the inflected hairs, and therefore are continually rubbing the eyelids whereby all the ill effects of the complaint ail much increased. Trail incut.—['V\\G eyelashes, if displaced,shouhl be drawn out gently with a cilia forceps without breaking them off. Atrophv of the hair-papilLa inay thus be produced by drawing them out ut first every third day, then ev<'ry week, and so'on lor months. Some recommend the removal of the hair-papilla by operation. The growth of fresh eyelashes may be prevented for months by applying some sulph-hvilrate of ca'-