process necessary, the edges are slightly touched with the sulphate of copper. The eye and eyelids are now to be carefully cleansed; a piece of lint, spread with the ung. cetacei, is to be placed upon them; a small compress under the edge of the orbit; and a retaining bandage over the whole. The next morning, the bandage and lint are to be removed, the eye fomented and cleansed, and the dressings replaced. On the second day, great care must be taken that the ligatures keep the lid sufficiently raised ; and, if any union has taken place by adhesion at the angles of the incisions, it must be broken through with the probe. On the third day, the plasters on the forehead should generally be changed. The ligatures themselves must be supported by strips of plaster, placed ver- ticiilly between them ; and the edges of the in- cisions should be touched again with the sulphate of copper, or separated with a probe. In a few days more, the ligatures cut their way out; and by the time the parts are healed, the eyelid will have resumed its natural situation. (Operative Surgery of ihe Eye, p. 31, &c.) Operations on the same principle are also recommended by Mr. Guthrie for the lower eyelid. When a surgeon chooses to try the foregoing operation, he ought to be certain that the cartilnge of the tarsus is so altered in its shape, as not to afford much chance of effectual relief from milder plans. Inversion of the lower eyelid is much less com- mon than that of the upper one. An inversion of the inferior palpebra is sometimes produced by inflammation and sr/elling of that part of the conjunctiva which connects the eyelid with the ej-ebail. In cases of ophthalm)^, this mem- brane often forms between the latter parts a dis- tinct fold, which is situated just on the inside of the orbital edge of the tarsus, and pushes it outward; while the contraction of the orbicular muscle turns the ciliary edge inwards, and inclines it between the swelling of the conjunctiva and the eye. In this particular case, Mr. Saunders assures us, that replacing the eyelid in the early stage of the disease, and maintaining it so, until the oph- thalmy has been lessened by proper means, will be found effectual. But when the conjunctiva is much thickened and indurated, Mr. Saunders recommends cutting such diseased part of it away, and the application of compresses to keep the orbital margin of the tarsus inward. (See also Travers's Si/nopsis, p. 234 and 3.55.) Albinus has recorded a species of trichiasis, which originated from the growth and inversion of one of the hairs upon the carnncula lachrymalis. The plan of relief consisted in plucking out the irritating hair; but it is not mentioned whether it TROCAR. 787 grew again. C. Dader. J. Sculleliit, Trichiasis Admirnnda, sive Morbus Pilaris Mirabilis, l2mo. Norib. 1658. Scarpa sulle principnli Miilattie (iejrii Occhi. H. Cramplon, Essay on tlie Entropeon. Lond. 1805. Saltmler»'g Obs. oi\ sevenil practical Points relative to the Disenses of the Eye, ed. 3. Ric/iler's Anfangsgrundeder vVund- orzneykunst, B. iii. G. J. /Jeer, Lehre von den Augenkraukheiten, B. ii. pp. 11 i-i 17. Hvo.Wien, 1817 ,Schrrger, Cliirurgisclie Versuclie, B. ii. Neue Me- tliodc die Trichiasis zii operiren, p. 253. 8vo. Niirn ber^, 1818. Ji. Travers, Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, pp. 2,12-354, Sec. «vo. l.ond. 1820. Jaeijer Diss, sistens Dingiiosinet Curnm Kadicalem Triciiia- sis, Uistichiasis, necnon Entropii. Vienna;, This method is said by Mr. Guthrie to be similar to that ■proposed by Saunders. G. J. Guthrie, Operative burRery of the Eye, 8vo. Lond. 1823! Delpech, Clinique de Chirurgie, 1.11. 4to. 1828; and the Trfa- "^E^ V). °^ t'le Eye, by Lawrence, Mackenzie, and Bhddlcmore, Desmarres, Traits, &c 18*7 n 47. Riberi, Tratlato di Ulefarottalmin, tera'pia on'era- tiva, 1838. Furnari, Ann. d'Ocul. vol. xi. p. 209 Mackenzie, On the Diseases of the Rye, 4th edit' 1854. Consult also Voisin, Himly. Bd. i. 217. J. Vogel, Wedel, GrunriziiKe der pathol. Histolo^jp! 1854, S. 467. .<4)()i«?e4'd'Oculistique, vol. xxxiv. p. 265. Pauii, Ann. d'Ocul. vol. i. suppl. p. 26. //. Rod- rifluez, Ann. d'Ocul. vol. xvi. p. 25. Lisfrank, L'lnstitut, 1836, No. 158. , Cunier, Annales d'Oculis- tique, vol. ii. p. 163. Wedel, Grundzuge der pa- thol. Histulogie. Vienna, 1854, p. 469. TRISMUS, (from Tpifoi, to gnash the teeth.) The locked jaw. See Tetanus. TROCHAR, or TROCAR, (from the French, trois-quart, three-fourths, from its point being al- ways formerly of a triangular form.) An instru- ment used for discharging serous fluids from dif- ferent cavities in the body, particularly those of the peritoneum and tunica vaginalis, in cases of as- cites and hydrocele. Trocars are also employed for tapping the bladder, dropsical ovaries, &c., and sometimes large chronic abscesses. One, for bron- chotomy, was invented by the late Mr. Wood. (See Tracheotomy.) A trocar consists of a perforator, or stilet, and of a canula, which is so adapted to the first piece of the instrument, that, when the puncture is made they both enter the part together, with perfect ease, after which, the stilet being withdrawn, the canula remains in the wound, and gives a ready passage for the fluid outward. Such are the uses of a trocar, and the principles on which it should be constructed. It would be unnecessary in this work to detail every little par- ticularity in the instrument; I shall merely ob- serve, that the triangular-pointed, and especiallv the round pointed, trocars seem to retain the greatest share of approbation; for, although those of a flat, lancet-pomted shape enter parts with more ease their canulie are not large enough for the ready escape of fluids which are at all thick, gelatinous or blended with hydatids and flaky substances. The trocar for puncturing the bladder from the rectum should be longer than a common trocar and ot a curved form. ' Surgeons ought always to have, at least, three trocars; one of full size, another of middling width and a third of small dimensions. In hydrocele' the latter is often preferable. [Since Mr. Cooper's time, trocars of smaller size have been in coiumon use, diminishing from the size of the ordinary hydrocele trocar to that of an exploring needle These are fitted to an ivory handle and case con- taining the canula. The smallest are used for tapping in hydrocephalus, and have superseded the grooved needle for exploring doubtful cases of tumor, and of collections of fluid of various charac- ters. Minute portions of malignant growths may be obtained for microscopic examination by thrust- ing the canula further into the tumor after the stilet has been removed. In this wav diagnosis may be materially aided. Trocars are also affixed to glass syringes, with double valvular action. These are of great service in drawing off fluids where it is considered of great importance not to permit atmospheric air to enter the cavity contain- ing them, as in tapping the chest for empyema or in opening a large Psoas abscess. Very large tro cars, half-nn-inch in diameter, have been latolv 3 E 2