459 PLETHORA, PHLEGMON (from (/)\^7«, to burn). Healthy inflammation. (See Inflammation.) PHLOGOSIS (from <t>\oy6a>, to inflame). In- ilainmation. PHTUIRIASIS. The presence of crab-lice among the eyebrows and eyelaslies. The crab- louse (Phthirius). Its pear-shaped eggs arc attaclied to the hair, close to the skin, by means of a transparent cement. A lid found at the broad end of the shell of the egg, falls off on com- pletion of the growth of the foetus. The lice and their eggs, when present in large numbers, give rise to an appearance as if the eyelashes were covered with yellowish grey and brown crusts, as observed in Tinea. These crusts, on close inspec- tion, present a marked beaded form, and when pressed between the nails, burst suddenly. Treatment.—The daily application of the un- guentum hydrargyri nitratis mitius, or of a solution of the hydrarg. Jbichloridi (gr. j. ad aquae 5j.) by means of a camel-hair brush to the " crusts " on the eyebrows and eyelashes, suffices to destroy the lice within a few days. C. Badei: PILES. A disease of the rectum frequently attended with haemorrhage. (See Rectum, dis- CclStiS of.) PLANTARIS MUSCLE. This long slender muscle is sometimes ruptured in dancing and leap- ing. The surgeon can do little more than advise rest, antiphlogistic remedies, and the same posture of the limb, as in the rupture of the tendo aohillis. (See Te7idon.) [PLETHORA (from TrXtiBcipv). Polyoemia. Hypercemia. Excess of blood in the whole or in a portion of the bloodvessels. This may be per- manent—the true plethora, or plethora ad vasa • or temporary—the falsq plethora, or plethora ad volumen of the early writers. It may also be general or partial. Individuals of a sanguine tem- perament, and particularly those of a lax fibre, are 'most liable to plethora. General plethora is most apt to occur in the prime of life, and is more fre- quent in females than males. It is met with especially in those who live highly, drink im- moderately of stimulants, are most exposed to the open air, and take but little severe e-xercise. The blood-making process in such persons is vigorous, iind the blood has always been described as "rich," or of a " thick crasis." The more accurate researches of the moderns have shown that frequently in plethoric persons the proportion of the solid constituents of the blood is increased, and that this increase is due to a large proportion of the red-corpnscles without any increase of the fibrine or albumen. From the analyses of Becquerel and Rhodier, we may infer, however, that plethora often occurs without any change in the composition of the blood. General plethora may accordingly be induced hy 1. An hereditary or acquired tendency to an excessively rapid reproduction of red-corpuscles and the consequent accumulation of an excess of blood in the bloodvessels, and when this tendency exists in a high degree, a plethoric state m;iy occur independently of exciting caifSes. 2. Too great a supply owing to habitual excessive re- pletion, often promoted by a very vigorous pri- mary digestion. .3. Diminished waste, owing to inactivity and a sluggishness of the nutritive processes, often resulting from insufficient ex- ercise. 4. Diminished secretion and excretion ; but since it seldom happens that all the eliminating organs are alike at fault, and a failure in the func- tion of either of the depurating organs is for the most part followed by a poisoned state of the blood, when plethora results from this cause, the propor- tions and the composition of the constituents of the blood are changed and the morbid condition ceases to be simple plethora. 5. The cessation or artificial arrest of habitual discharges, especially when sud- denly effected and without any compensating change in the system. Plethora induced by this cause is often well marked and not well tolerated ; its effects are also,as in the last case, most frequently complicated with morbid qualities of the blood. The more prominent symptoms of general ple- thora are: fulness of pulse, turgescence of the capillaries observed on the surface generally and in the countenance in particular, suffusion of the eyes; fulness of the veins; sometimes diminished aptitude to mental or corporeal exertion, or general lassitude, or increased disposition to sleep, the sleep being often heavy, snoring and unrefreshing. There is frequently vertigo, weight or pain in the head, and throbbings of the larger vessels or palpitations, but in well-constituted subjects the tendency to tiiese latter symptogis is kept greatly in check by the equal distribution of the blood. In the more de- cided cases the respiration is increased so as to produce a degree of discomfort, and if th« blood should not be fully oxygenized, as shown by lividity of the lips, this will amount to dyspnosa; 'but a continuance of these symptoms indicates a deterioration of the blood in addition to the state of plethora. In simple plethora the abstraction of blood is not only well borne but alwaj's attended with sensible relief to the patient, and from fifty to seventy ounces or more have been drawn without producing fainting. The blood drawn may be per- fectly healthy or, owing to the increased proportion of the corpuscles to the fibrin, the clot may be larger and less firm than usual. Plethora frequently tends to a deposit of fat in the adipose tissue and general obesity, and it has been held that such de- posit may act as a kind of safety-valve for the diversion of the superfluous fluid (Dr. Watson), but the proportions of the blood constituents are most probably altered before this effect is produced. The consequences of plethora are chiefly such as result from the increased and unequal nutrition of particular parts and over-distension of the vascular system. The increased mass of blood requires an increase in the capacity of the heart's cavities and an augmented force of propulsion; hence, either hypertrophy or dilatation of the heart, or both, may be gradually produced. Plethora predisposes to a certain extent to visceral congestion, particu- larly of the brain, and this may be followed, par- ticularly when the heart is excited to undue action, by rupture of the vessels or hajmorrhagic effusion. Congestion and hypertrophy of the liver, particularly when from any cause the blood is not freely transmitted through the heart, or congestion of the lungs, hromorrhoida owing to the retardation of the blood in the portal system, epis- 'taxis or menorrhagia owing to the increased ten- sion of the vascular system, may also be produced. When the distribution of the blood is equal, it may be doubtful whether plethora predisposes to inflam- mation; but when it occurs, particularly in the viscera, it runs high and requires active treatment. Surgical diseases and accidents may occur, and