715 TETANUS. some of the conditions: thus in both there are tetanic convulsions of the voluntary muscles, there is an arching back of the head and neck, violent stretching of the legs, and spasms brought on by the sliglitest touch; there is spasm of the respira- tory muscles, and consciousness retained to the last. But in strychnia poison there is no locked jaw; although the jaws may bo closed, the muscles re- lax and aliow of the opening of the mouth; the spasms intermit in a most marked manner; there is a distinct interval of subsidence and recurrence of tlie fearful spasms; there is early marked spasm of the laryngeal muscles, and terror of suffocation, as in Cook's case, when he cried out, " liaise me up, I shall be suffocated." {Taijhr on Fokoning by Stn/chiiia, Guy's Hos. Rep., series iii. vol. ii. p. 293.) A most interesting and well-marked case oc- curred in Guy's Hospital in June, IBOS. A boy, aged 12, was brought from a chemist's shop, where he was eniplo3'ed, in a state of the most frightful spasm; there were well-marked convulsions, tlie bodj' was most rigidly bowed by powerful con- traction of the spinal muscles; spasm of the laryngeal muscles, so mucii so that the face was livid, and impending suffocation expected every moment. The boy was perfectly sensible, and there was no locked jaw; the muscles of the jaw were not in the least affected by the spasms. These truly frightful convulsions were not continu- ous, but suddenly ceased and as quickly returned, the boy anticipating them during the relaxation, and on the return of the convulsions saying, " It's coming on, I am dying; good bye, &c." Ice was applied along the spine, which had the effect of diminishing the spasms; the boy vomited freely, and the wliole symptoms gradually subsided and left him quite well at the end of a week. This case was at lirst thought by some to be tetanus; the boy's agony was so great that no clear account could be obtained, so that one had to rely upon the symptoms as they presented themselves. It was remarked that this boy's case exactly corresponded with the symptoms in Cook's case, but of a more marked degree, and death was expected every mo- ment after each attack of spasmodic convulsions, and withal the jaw could be freely opened and shut, and swallowing was not difficult. It was re- garded as a pure case of poisoning by strvchnia, although at the time there was no evidence that he had taken any. The remarkable action of the ice to the spine in tlie vomiting which took place, to- gether with the gradual subsidence of the sjmip- toms and speedy recovery, render the case perfect. It appears that the boy picked up a piece of black stuff" from the floor, the size of the tip of the finger, and chewed it, but finding it bitter he spat it out; soon after his legs became stiff", and he remembered nothing more. lie was found rigid on the floor, and it is stated that ho was not brought to the hospital until an hour after the occurrence. The substance proved to be some extract of mix vomica and that there was about fJ grs. in the piece he took some of which he spat out. The diagnosis of poisoning by strychnin from te- tanus and hysteria, is elaborately and ably treated by Dr. S. Taylor {Gay's IJus. Rep., series iii. vol ii p. 296 eiaeq.).] Treatment.—I next proceed to consider the treatment of tetanus, a subject of infinite difRcuItv, because the disease frequently baffles every mode of practice, and, in certain instances, gets well under the employment of the very same remedies which decidedly fail in other similar cases of the disorder. Every plan has occasionally succeeded, and every plan has still more frequently miscarried. The great difficulty, therefore, is to ascertain, amongst numerous discordant accounts, what practice is found on the whole to be attended with the least ill success. For, in the present state of our know- ledge, the most credulous practitioner will not flatter himself with the supposition, that any effec- tual remedy for tetanus has yet been discovered. As, however, acute tetanus was regarded by Hip- pocrates and the ancients as certainly mortal, and it does not always prove so in modern times, it seems allowable to conclude, that the recoveries which now happen must be ascribed to improve- ments in pvactice. This reflection should lead us not to give up the subject as hopeless; but to re- double our exertions for the discovery of a more successful method of treatment, and, if possible, of some new medicine, possessing more specific power over the disorder. As is justly observed by a well-informed writer, when we reflect upon the obscurity which involves both the ratio symptumatum and the proximate cause of tetanic affections, we need not wonder that the practice in these disorders should still be entirely empirical. The indication of cure, which is generally applicable to all diseases, namel}', the removal of the exciting causes, is scarcely admis- sible in a disorder which is the consequence of causes which, in general, have ceased to act, or which it is not in our power either to remove or control. In some cases, where local irritation might be suspected to be still operating, the most effectual method of counteracting its effects on the system would obviously be to intercept all com- munication between the seat of the irritation and the sensorium. If, however, the disease has al- ready established itself, and severe symptoms have come on, it does not appear that this would com- monly succeed in arresting the course of the dis- order. Experience too fully proves, that ampu- tation of the limb, from the injury of which the tetanus has arisen, will seldom procure even a mitigation of the sj-mptoms, if performed after a certain period from their first appearance. (Rees's Ci/clopceilia, art. Tetanus.) Baron Larrey is th« greatest modern advocate for amputation where tetanus depends upon a wound of the extremities; but the facts which he adduces in its fitvour are not numerous, and he limits his recommendation of the measure chiefly to chronic cases, and extends it to no others, except on the very first accession of the symptoms. "The equally unexpected and entire success (observes Larrey) obtained by the amputation of the injured limb, in the person of an officer at- tacked with chronic tetanus, leads me to propose the question, tvhe/her, in this disorder, occasioned iiy a wound of some part of llie citremilies, it ivould not Ijc better to amputate the injured limb immedi- ately the symptoms of tetanus commence, rather than eiip)ect from the resources of nature, and from vert) uncertain remedies, a cure which so seldom happens ? "If tetamis is chronic, as is somctimos observed, amputation m;iy be done at every period of tho disorder, provided a choice be made of tiie time when there is nn intermission of tho symptoms.