753 TOURNIQUET. cliexin, nnd at one period reqxiired the appropriate remedies for that disease. These were, of course, not mercury but sarsaparilia, iodide of potassium, and other tonics, together with a stimulating and nutritious diet in a form that can be taken under the circumstance of the great difficulty of degluti- tion which necessarily attends the case, while stimulating local applications, such as the tinctuia benzoin! comp., or Peruvian balsam, or even the nitric acid with caution, should be had recourse to. (See VENERE.iL Disease.) The gangrenous and destructive ulceration occurring as one of the symptoms of scarlet fever {Ci/nanche Maligna) is more frequently fatal, and it rarely happens that we have the opportunity of seeing the ravages elfected by this disease after recovery upon the tonsils or fauces. With regard to the affection now under consideration, Sir Thomas Watson observes :— But another source of danger arises from the gangrenous ulceration which is apt to ensue in the fauces when the patient is not killed by the first violence of the contagion. The system is re- inoculated, I believe, with the poisonous secretion from the throat. Now, under these circumstances also, quina or wine—and upon the whole I should give the preference to wine—are to be diligently, thoiigli carefully given. And something may be done by way of gargles to correct the state of the throat, and to prevent the distressing and perilous consequences which would otherwise be likely to flow from it. A weak solution of chloride of soda may be employed for this purpose, and if the disease occur in a child that is not able to gargle, this solution may be injected into the nostrils and against the fauces by means of a syringe or elastic bottle. The effect of this appli- cation is sometimes most encouraging. A quantity of sloughy matter is brought away, the acrid dis- charge is rendered harmless, the running from the nose and diarrhoaa cease, and the disease is con- verted into a form which approximates to the scarlatina anginosn." (Watson's Ledures, vol. ii. p. 7.03.) Other tonics and antiseptic lotions besides those above-mentioned may be tried and varied accord- ing to circumstances. The tonsils are very rarely the primary seat of scirrlius or of epithelioma, but of course these aftections may, and occasionally do, spread to the tonsils.] Sometimes the tonsils are suddenly attacked with such a degree of swelling, that respiration is dangerously obstructed. This case is analogous to the occasional enormous inflammatory swelling of the tongue, and, if it resists venesection and leeches, the most prompt mode of relief is that of niakiiig several deep scarifications with a knife in the parts. Many e-xamples, confirming the good effects of this practice, have been seen hy Langen- beck. (See JVciin BiU. b. ii. p. 492, &c.) TOUIlNIQUEf. {French, from tourner, to turn.) An instrument for stopping the flow of blood into a limb, until some requisite opera- tion has been performed, or a more permanent plan of checking ha3morrhage has been put in jiractice. 1'hc old surgeons used to surround the limb with a band, witii which they made such a degree of constriction, that the ciriuLi",ion was quite Stopped. They also believed that the pressure of the band was advantageous in benumbing the VOL, II. limb, and moderating the pain of operations. The violent pain and contusion, however, which such a tourniquet occasioned, being frequently followed liy abscesses, and even by mortification, surgeons lound it necessary to devise some other method. The application of the circular band was first im- proved, so that it caused less pain, and less mis- chief to the skin. The limb was surrounded with a very thick compress, over which the band was placd. Two small sticks were next put under the band; one on the inside, the other on the out- side of the limb; and they were twisted till the band was rendered sufficiently tight. It is in this manner, says Dionis, in his Trailt d'Operations, that carriers tighten the cords which fasten the. bales of goods in their carts. A French surgeon, named Morel, made this first improvement in the application of tourniquets. In 171fi, J. L. Petit presented to the Academy of Sciences a tourniquet of his own invention, which was much more perfect, though certainly complex, when compared with that used by modern practitioners; still it is the original of the latter, and both are constructed on the same prin- ciples. All the pieces of modern tourr.iquets are connected together; and, instead of two pieces of wood, used by Petit, there is a brass bridge, which is capable of being elevated, or depressed, by means of a screw, made of the same metal. Over this bridge a very strong band proceeds, and by passing under two little rollers, at each end of the bridge, it always remains connected with the in- strument; A convex firm pad is sewed to the band, and put immediately over the artery, when the instrument i.? applied. There is no cushion for the opposite side of the limb under the screw; but a thick piece of leather, through which the' band proceeds in two places, is always situated under the lower surface of the brass, and serves to prevent any bad effects of its pressure. It is usual also for the surgeon to fold some rag, and to put it in this situation, at the time of applying the instrument. (See H/emqbuhage.) The following are the advantages of the modern tourniquet, formed on the principles of that first invented by Petit: I. It compresses the lateral parts of the limb less than the tourniquet pre- viously in use. 2. It requires the aid of no as- sistiint, either to hold, tighten, or loosen it. 3. Tlie operator is able of Iiimself to stop the flow of blood in the artery, by means of the screw. 4. When there is any danger of hajinorrhage after aii operation, it may be left on the limb, and, in case of bleeding, the patient, if no assistant be at hand, can tighten the instrument himself. 5. Its con- striction produces less danger of mortification, be- cause it does not altogether stop the flow of blood through the collateral arteries. Although the employment of the tourniquet in amputations is still contirmed by the majority of hospital surgeons in this metropolis, a certain number of them dispense with it. In University College Hospital I have never seen it applied. Mr. Guthrie sttitos that he usually amputates without it; and one of my colleagues is decidedly against its employment. " In the greater ani- putations (says he) the flow of blood into the limb may be effectually checked by extict compression with the htiiid on the principal vessel. This mode of arresting lia;morrliage during operations on the limbs, possesses considerable ndvantan-es The 3 G ° ■