400 opium, taken wilhout amj neccssiti; far it; and I cannot but think that the existence of the disease produced the tolerance of the drug, and I cannot imagine, judging from the very large doses other people have taken to my certain knowledge for many years, but that these stipcr- effects, so to call them, of morphine or of opium, are greatly modified by the existence of certain states of the constitution, and by certam actual diseases. See, for instance, how greai an amount of opium can be given without any ap- parent elTect as long as phagedena is going on—a tolerance of the drug is produced, which has no apparent effect on the system generally until the phagedffiua has stopped. 1 have seen sixty drachms of laudanum thus given in three days to an hospital patient without causing sleep until the prof'ress of the disease was checked. In neuralgia, tlien, in phagedaina, in cancer, in certain conditions of the brain, as for example mania, opium may be tolerated in enormous doses for days, months, or even years. , "But what is still more extra- ordinary," says Chapman, "in a case of can- cer of the uterus, which was under the care of two highly respectable physicians (Drs. Monges and La Roche) at Philadelphia, the quantity of laudanum was gradually increased to three pints besides a considerable quantity of solid opium" {Chapman, Elem. of Therap. ii. i9J.J Opium-eaters, it is said, seldom attain to the age of forty years if they have begun to use opium at an early age. 1 agree with Cliristison and others in doubting this assertion ; and fully believe that where certain states of the system exist, such as those above mentimied, not only is a tolerance ot the drug produced, but in such cases, cancer tor instance, or other severe painful diseases, lite is ■ lengthened under its use, death is as it were staved off by the opium, which acts by reducing the phenomena, conducing to death, to their lowest point ; opium does this by relieving the pain, tlie anxiety, the mental wear and tear — the ex- haustion—by keeping down the quick pulse (as in phthisis), and by giving directly and indirectly tiiat potent restorer—sleep. . Opium-smokivg is largely had recourse to m China and the Indian Archipelago. The first effect of it is to render the Chinese smoker loquacious and animated; gradually the con- versation drops, laughter is occasionally produced by the most trifling causes, and to these effects succeed vacancy of countenance, pa lor, shrinking of the features, so that the smokers resemble people convalescent from fever, followed by deep sleep for half an hour to three or four hours, ihe Malays are rendered outrageous and quarrelsome by the opium-pipe. {Fereira.) The rreparaiions of Opium are very numermis and it must here suffice to give but a brief mention of those chieHy employed. A. Those from the poppy itself are—1. Uecoc- tum l'i.paveris, a very useful anodyne fomentation. 2. The Syrupus Papaveris, at most nn uncertain preparation, although much given to children. 3 lixtraclum P., a milder preparation than the hxl opii. .. B. Of opium itself there are—1. PiUikx Opn vol Thebaicie, five grains of which contains one grain of opium. 2. Pilula; Saponis Compositio, of the same strength. 3. Piih is Creta; Conipositiis cum Opio, forty grains of which contain one grain OPIUM. of opium. 4. Confectio Opii lias 1 grain in 30 (L. Ph.) S. Emplast. Opii, a cutaneous tonic anodyne for lumbago, &c., of mild power. C. Ex- tractum Opii, more powerful properly than solid opium, the inert principles being mostly removed by digestion and evaporation. Dose ^ gr. to ii. or iii. 7. Tinctura Opii. Laudanum. The most com- mon preparation of opium. Its strength varies in the three Pharmacopoeias, but Squire (Trans, of the Pharm.) says they are all of the same strength, and that one grain of powdered opium is employed to produce thirteen minims of the tincture. Do=e for adidt, in. X. to 5i. The tincture is a powerful I anodyne and soporific ; very minute doses must be I used on children. 8. Enema Opii. Very much used for painful affections of the lower abdominal viscera. 9. Liiiimentum Opii. 10. Vinum Opii, the laudanum of Sydenham ; very serviceable as an application for the eye. 11. Acetum Opii, 20 drops of which are said to be equal to 30 of laudanum. Dose vi. to xxx. minims. Then there are various preparations into the composition of which opium enters ; but the effect is not in them that of pure opium. The chief of these are 12. Tinct. CamphprsB Comp.—One grain of opium exists in about g ss. (267 minims L. P. 240, E.); it is a very useful anodyne in chest affec- tions, usually called Paregoric Elixir. 13, Pulvis Ipecac. Comp.,or Dover's powder, contains one grain in X. ; a very useful form, the action of the opium being modified by the ipecacuanha. 14. Pulvis Kino Comp. &c. &c. We pass now to the action of the alkaloids de- rived from opium, the only one of which in common use is morphine ; of late years, however, some of the others have been a good deal employed. Claude Bernard, who has especially studied the action of the alkaloids of opium on animals, divides them into two classes :— 1. The soporific alkaloids, morphine, narceine, and codeine. 2. The toxique (poisonous), and non-soporitic narcotine,thebaine and papaverine. . . Let us adopt this arrangement, and consider hrst the soporific alkaloids. 1. Morphia, morphine, from Morpheus, the god of sleen This important alkaloid has for its ^yutol M. its formula is CS^i^o Nqo Its salts have a bitter taste, and like morphia itself are reddened by nitric acid, turned blue by the neutral sesquichloride of iron, and reddish br<.wn by md.c acid, iodine being set free. The salts of morphia in most common use are the acetate, the hydro- chlorate, the sulphate, and bimcconate. The effects of morphine upon the human system are really much the same as those of opium ; but there are certain dilVerences and certai^n constitu- tions in which morphine acts and suits bettor t an opium. Of the two, opium is niore exhila.ating . and exciting; morphine more sedative anodyne, tonic, and at times, more depressing than opium. It may be for these reasons that opium seems to i nn^e invnguein surgical -ses, and nmrp^une; in medical. The sleep of both opium and nor-. phine is not infrequently "^-^""f'"'^'d .f'''f„Y [ fullness and lightness in the I'-^f^ y los o appetite in the -""••''g'"»-L"'ir;'r«mlng „ess. Opium iekncss, when than morphine, mid F '' P; rpon paiv-* both drugs are Riven by t e mou^^^^^^^^^ ^7^^ ^ equivalent doses being usea i