three-quarters to one inch in dinraeter, and is suf- ficiently hard to resist moderate pressure. In these cases the broad flat-beaked lithotrite is the most useful instrument. M. Civiale says that he never met with a stone less than an inch in dia- meter, which resisted the instrument of this kind that he employs. But the first fragments are too large to pass through the urethra; they must be seized at once and reduced in size. The manipu- lation does not commonly require more than five minutes, and the whole treatment does not last more than eight to fifteen days. In the third series of simple cases the organs are still comparatively sound and the general health good, but the stone is moderately hard, from one inch to two inches in diameter. In this series difficulties may arise from the size and shape of the stone ; but they may be overcome, and the calculus may generally be crushed without danger in five or six sittings. The operation is more painful and difficult, but the result is generally satisfactory. In some few cases, however, the irritation and contraction of the bladder continue ; and if the size and hardness of the stone be such as to render a long treatment inevitable, M. Civiale advises that lithotomy should be had recourse to without delay. This question of the performance of lithotomy after lithotrity is an important one, though it is neglected in most of our standard works. In many cases of vesical calculus, the bladder, as a conse- quence of prolonged disease, is either permanently contracted, or has a tendency to contract strongly on slight irritation. Whenever no organic mis- chief exists, and the stone is small, lithotrity may be attempted and persisted in so long as unfavour- able symptoms do not arise. But the case must be watched with great care, and every precaution used to avoid increasing the sensibility of the bladder which already exists. With all our care however, the irritability of the bladder may in- crease to a severe degree. The stone may have been broken, and on the next or following day great pain and irritation may arise from the presence of the fragmemts, with a constant desire to pass urine, and considerable difficulty in void- ing it. A little later more unfavouralile symptoms set in-—high irritative fever, extreme local irrita- tion, with great pain in passing the fragments, or rather, in the efforts to pass them, few or none being voided. Now, in a case of this kind, what is to be done ? The attempt to break the stone cannnt be renewed, and the patient's strength, which before the crushing was good, is now ra- pidly sinking. Under these circumstances are we justified in resorting to lithotomy ? A priori, it might be thought that the succession of one capital operation to another must be attended with too great risk; that the mischief set up by the previous lithotrity must render the subsequent lithotomy dangerous, if not fatal ; but such is not the case. Lithotomy after lithotrity, though a last re- source, is far from being a hopeless undertaking. The rule for the guidance of the surgeon is that whenever lithotrity has given rise to unfavourable symptoms, which continue in spite of all treat- ment, and lead to serious apprehension, the general health being pretty good, lithotomy should be em- ployed without delay. It may bo required in two classes of cases. In one, when the stone ie largo . 2G3 LITHOTRITY, and the first operation is imexpectedly followed by severe symptoms, such as general fever, with great irritation and violent contraction of the bladder, the irritability of the organ being so great that even the introduction of an instrument cannot be borne. If this state continues for many days, decisive measures must be adopted. The loca> and general condition of the patient evidently de- pends on the irritation kept up by the fragments of the partially crushed stone. The bladder, there- fore, must be speedily relieved, and this can only be effected by continuing lithotrity at all hazards, or by falling back on lithotomy. The latter is the most prudent course. If the stone were small and friable, a renewed attempt at crushing might succeed; but where the stone is large and hard, several sittings at prolonged intervals would be required. The manipulations would keep up, if not increase, the local irritation; inflammation of the bladder, renal disease, or purulent infection, would probably set in, and the result be fatal. In another class of cases, independently of the size and density of the stone, the first sitting is followed by violent and permanent contraction of the bladder. The neck of the bladder is ex- tremely sensitive; attempts to pass an instrument excite great pain. In a case of this kind, many surgeons would administer chloroform, and con- tinue the crushing; but if there be the least suspicion that the irritability of the bladder is com- plicated with any organic change, however slight, lithotrity cannot be persisted in without great risk. Relief should at once be given by the knife, pro- vided the general condition be favourable. The following case illustrates the principles which have just been laid down:—On October 18, 1859, the writer attended a patient 67 years of age, stout and of healthy constitution. The prostate was enlarged and the bladder irritable, but the calculus was of moderate size. On the 20th, it was crushed, but some difficulty was experienced in seizing the stone, caused by the irritability of the bladder. Great care was, therefore, ob- served, and the calculus was simply crushed during the first sitting, no attempt being made to pulverise the fragments. There was no discharge of blood, either at the time of the operation or subsequent to it. For three days little or no local irritation supervened. Some fragments were passed without difficulty, and the general health was not disturbed; on the 24th, however, he was seized with frequent desire to pass water, great straining in the eff'orts, and great pain afterwards but no more fragments came away. Perfect rest was enjoined, hot baths and fomentations em- ployed, and opiates were administered by the mouth and rectum, but the symptoms continued without any relief. For two days, complete re- tention supervened, probably caused by the opiates but on each occasion of drawing off the urine the spasm was very severe. The irritable condition of the bladder rfiturned with augmented severity the urine being passed every ten minutes with great pain and straining; and the general health of the patient, which had hitherto been good now began to give way. The urgency of the' case required prompt innasurcs, and lithotomy was proposed and acceded to. Tho operation was performed on November 6th, and presented no difficulty. On extracting tho foreign body it was found broken, one-half of the stone being entire