463 PHIMOSIS. Phimosis maybe of two kinds, accidental ovcon- .icnital. Both the accidental phimosis and paraphimo- sis may arise from a thickening of the cellular tissue of the prepuce, from any irritating cause capable of producing inflammation. A chancre is a fre- quent cause; but a mere inflammation and discharge from the glans and prepuce, and also a gonorrhoea, may bring on these affections. The inflammation often runs high, and is frequently of the erysipe- latous kind. The cellular tissue being loose, the tumefaction is considerable; and the end of the prepuce being a depending part, the serum often lodges in it. A congenital narrowness of the aperture of the prepuce is very common, and per- sons so affected have a natural and constant phi- mosis. Such a state of parts (says Mr. Hunter) is often attended with chancres, and it produces great inconvenience during the treatment. When there is considerable diffused inflammation, a dis- eased phimosis, similar to the natural one, un- avoidably follows; and whether diseased ornatural, it may produce a paraphimosis, simply by the pre- puce being brought back upon the penis. This tight part, then acting as a ligature round the body of the penis, behind the glans, retards the circulation beyond the constriction, so as to pro- duce an oedematous inflammation of the everted part of the prepuce. When the prepuce is long, phimosis may also arise from the swelling of the glans penis, produced by sores on the latter part, or the irritation of a severe gonorrrhoea. {Travers, in Surgical Essays, part i. p. 132.) In some children, the natural or congenital phimosis is so considerable, that the urine cannot pass with ease ; but the aperture of the prepuce generally becomes larger as they grow older, and the bad consequences which the phimosis might have occasioned in disease are thus avoided. In certain individuals the prepuce sometimes contracts without any visible cause, and becomes so narrow as to hinder the water from escaping, even after it has passed out of the urethra ; con- sequently the whole cavity of the prepuce becomes filled with urine, and great irritation and pain may be thus occasioned. In phimosis, when the prepuce swells and be- comes thickened, more and more of the skin of the penis is drawn forwards over the glans, and the latter part is at the same time pushed backwards. From such a cause, Mr. Hunter has seen the pre- puce projecting more than three inches beyond the glans, with its aperture much diminished, As Mr. Hunter notices, the prepuce often be- comes in some degree everted, by the inner skin yielding more than the outer, and the part seems to have a kind of neck, where the outer skin natu- rally terminates. From the tightness and dis- tension of the parts, the prepuce now cannot be drawn back, so as to expose any sores which may be situated under it. This state is frequently productive of bad consequences, especially when chancres are situated behind the glans ; for the glans being between the orifice of the prepuce and the sores, the matter sometimes cannot get a pas- sage forward, between the glans and prepuce, and, consequently, it accumulates behind the corona glandis, so as to form a kind of abscess, which produces ulceration on the inside of the prepuce. The ulceration thus caused may perforate the pre- puce, and the glans, protruding through the opening. the whole prepuce is thrown towards the opposite side, and the'penis seems to have two terminations. On the other hand, if the prepuce is loose and wide, and is either accustomed to be kept back in its sound state, or is pulled back to admit of the chancres being dressed, and is allowed to remain in this situation till tumefaction takes place, the phimosis may be converted into a paraphimosis. Also, when the prepuce is pulled forcibly back, after it is swelled, it is then brought from the state of a phimosis to that of a paraphimosis. The latter is often attended with worse symptoms than the former, especially when there has originally been a phimosis. The aperture of the prepuce is naturally less elastic than any other part of it; therefore, when it is pulled back upon the body of the penis, that part is grasped tightly by the con- tracted portion of the prepuce. Hence there will be, in a short time, two swellings of the prepuce, one close behind the glans, and in front of the constriction, consisting of the everted portion of the prepuce; the other heliind the constriction. The constriction is often so great as to mterrupt the cir- culation beyond it. This increases the swelling, adds to the stricture, and ulceration rapidly sets in at the constricted part, which may extend to a consider- able depth into the substance of the penis. In severe cases, mortification of the prepuce may take place, by which means the whole diseased part, together with the stricture, is sometimes removed, forming a natural cure. In many cases the skin and prepuce are not the only parts affected; adhesions, and even mortification, may also take place in the glans, corpora cavernosa, &c. (See Hunter on the Venereal Disease, p. 221, &c.) An accidental phimosis should always be pre- vented, if possible; and therefore, says Mr. Hunter, upon the least sign of a thickening of the prepuce, which is known by its being retracted with diffi- culty and pain, the patient should be kept quiet; if in bed, so much the better, as, in a horizontal position, the end of the penis will not be so de- pending. If confinement in bed cannot be complied, with, the end of the penis should be kept up, though this can hardly be done when the patient is walking about. The object of this plan is to keep the extravasated fluids from gravitating to the prepuce. When phimosis is recent, and attended with swelling of the glans or prepuce from inflamma- tion, tepid water or milk and water may be in- jected beneath the foreskin, and the penis may be immersed, three or four times a day, in a tepid bath; and the use of leeches, which I think, with him and other writers (see Diet, des Sciences Aicd. t. xlL p. 334), should never be put exactly on the swollen prepuce itself. As the inflammation subsides, in- jections of weak goulard, or the solution of alum, or liquor calcis and calomel, may be substituted. {Traverses Surgical Essai/s, parti, p. 138.) Instead of warm applications, some practitioners prefer cold; audit is yet an unsettled question which re- medies answer best. When there are sores, as they cannot be dressed in the common way, injections must frequently be thrown under the prepuce, or the operation for phimosis performed. When matter is confined under the prepuce, Mr. Hunter recommends laying the prepuce open, from the external orifice to the bottom, where the matter lies; as in a sinus, or fistula. However, he