SCURVY. fi71 is by no means decisive. A boy wlio entered the Dit-adnniight in December, 18G7, suffering severely from sciirvj-, was the possessor of a leg broken at Ciiicutta twelve months previously; it appeared ti) Imve been well set, and showed no disposition to disunion. The post-mortem indications found ill (.a-^es of genuine and uncomplicated scurvy are i i a Hreat degree negative. A blanched condition of all the tissues, more or less sponginess of the gtmis, ocL'asional ecehj-moses about the thoracic and iibdominal aorta;, and scattered indifferently about the coats of the intestinal canal. No structural changes are found in any organ except the spleen, which is usually large, and sometimes friable, pulpy, or almost rotten. The brawny state of the ciihes and hams is cansed by fibrinous effusions between the sirise of the muscles. (A prepara- tion, illustrating this conditi m, may be seen in the Museum of the Dreadnought, and was pre- pared by Mr. Busk.) Effusions of semi-fibrinous cnagnla are also found between the periosteum and the bone; these being most marked immediately beneath the node-like swellings above-mentioned (see a preparation by Busk in the Dreadnought Museum), and sometimes, accurding to Lind and Budil, about the lower jaw. But the persistence of the vascular connection between the periosteum and the bone through the clot, renders it probable that this effusion takes place very gradually, and serves also to explain the tact specially noticed by Lind, that, although scorbutic nodes continue on the tibia for a long lira", they never give rise to exfoliation of bone (_Bud(l). The body of a patient who had died from scurvy and dysenteiy, was examined in the Dreadnouglit in 1866, and the periosteum was found detached from two or three of the upper ribs at their sternal ends, and, in several instances, the cartilages were partially dislocated. All researches as to scurvy tend to show that it is eminently a blood disease, that,atcording to Parkes, it is a distinct and exclusive disease, and that the direct cause producing scurvy as a consequence is the absence of some, or the superabundance of otlier, constituents of the blood that are necessary to preserve the system in a healthy condition. Vari us analyses of blood taken from scorbutic patients liave been made by Busk, Chaten and Biiuvier, Bfcque^el and Roden, Andral, Ritchie, and Frisk, but the results are S(miewhat conflicting, and the total number of examinatiims is too small from which to deduce any very positive conclusions. But it apprars that, in all, the red corpuscles and Water wrre found in increased quantities, and the balance of evidence goes to prove the special result of Buck's observations, that the proportion of fibriiie is detiniiely increased. Fur in auiemia " the density of the blood is diminished, and the proportion of fibrine, albumen, fatty matter, and salts rumains unaltered; in the liEEniorrhagic dia- thesis, the blooil contains too little Hbrine,'' and it is higlily probable (though not yet sufficiently proved) that, in the scorbutic diathesis, the blood ciUiiains too much tibrine. True hsemorrhnges in scurvy are rare, and the swollen and spongy gums, if l arefiilly examined, will be found to contain, not blood, nor simple coajula, but a scini-organisable filinnoiis material, and the effusions between the periosteum and the bone do not occur on account of the britlleiiess of the neighbouring vessels, but on account of the watery condition of the blood it- self, Aldridge ascribes the cause of scurvy to a deficiency of sulphur and soda, Garrod to a want of potash, and John Morgan, of Dublin, to a deficiency of phosphorus; but the results of treatment hitherto obtained do not confirm satisfactorily any one of these opinions {Pur/ces), Lehmann remarks that the alkaline salts are often doubled in scurvy, and M. Verdeit says that a vegetable diet causes an increase in the alkaline carbonates of the blood, the phosphates existing in very small quantity. The diagnostic characters of scurvy are well marked, inasmuch as the brawny calves and thighs, the spongy gums and bruised-like appearance of the skin, are all sufficient to distinguish this disease from purpura or any other malady. The prophylactic and curative agents that raay be usefully employed in this disease have been generally indicated in the foregoing remarks. It may be confidently asserted that the use of fresh vegetables and fruits (particularly unripe fruits) will both prevent and cure scurvy, and that those classed under the natural orders Crucilera and Aurantiacese, are most potent in antiscorbutic pro- perties. But the very useful properties of lime and lemonjuice as a prophylactic agent have long been known, and to its employment may be attributed the practical extinction of scurvy from the Royal Navy. The special virtues of these juices were first recorded by Woodall in 1600, but very little use was made of this discovery until the close of the last century, when the exertions of Lind and Blane caused their regular adoption in the British fleets. The use of lime and lemonjuice in the mercantile marine was made compulsory by The Merchant Shipping Act 18,54, and the continued existence of scurvy in ocean-going ships has been proved to arise from the gross adulterations to which these juices were subject, thereby ren- dering them utterly useless as antiscorbutics. But The Merchant Shipping Act 1867, compels an official examination of all juice taken to sea for the use of ships' crews, and also ensures preservability by securing its mixture with a cer- tain proportion of spirit. Our chemists have not yet discovered the special antiscorbutic element in lime and lemonjuice. Morgan maintains that it is phosphorus, Garrod that it is potash, and many others that it is citric acid. No confirmatory evi- dence exists as to phosphorus, the potash theory has produced conflicting results, and. though the antiscorbutic virtues of citric acid in large doses are undeniable, a large balance o( facts now exists that •ihow its great comparative inferiority to lime and lemonjuice. Grahaoi has, however, advanced an important step in the right direction, by separating the colloid from the crystalloid principles of the juice. This very ingenious idea was carried out in 1867, and it is proposed to test the amiscorbiitic properties of both principles as opportunities occur. Parkes remarks, with reference to this subject" thit " the Muleriu AMica gives manv analogous examples of the superior effi acy of a Inedicine in Its natural combinations." The antiscorbutic pro- uerties of raw walrus meat have been extolled by Kane, who writes of its usefulness i,i Arctic voy- ages, but the data are limited. Cooked ox liver was lately prescribed for scorbutic hemerolopia by the surgeon of the Austrian Imperial ship " Novara," and its further use in cases of scurvy is recommended by German writers. Morgan of Dub- lin adopts a system of curing meat by an arterial injection of a solution containing a certain propor-