SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION. 633 urine, or general, as in tetanus; and in thia last ■and serious malady very happy results have al- ready been obtained. (MM. Vella, Briquet, Courty, CI. Bernard, Spencer Wells, &c.) In obstinate vomiting the hypodermic injections of morphia will sometimes act almost instantly in arresting the spasmodic contractions and irrita- bility of the stomach. Three cases of this kind have come under my care due to pregnancy ; they had all resisted for months the usual remedies, as well as morphine given by the stomach. The passage of renal calculi, of gall stones,cases of severe colic, spasmodic strictures, even of in- tussusception, are all well-marked instances of either intense spasm and of pain, which may be and has been instantly relieved by this rapid mode of influencing the system at large. Much more may yet be done than has been done in cholera by this mode of treatment, and even in hydrophobia. That there are various objections to the use of opiates in cholera when given by the mouth there can be no doubt, the chief of these being, perhaps, the uncertainty of the stomach retaining it, and, supposing it did, the probability of its effect being bad upon the liver and the digestive surface of the alimentary canal, which ought not to be in- terfered with in their attempts to eliminate the choleraic secretion, and which are much better without than with the topical influence of an opiate, if nourishment is to be absorbed. But nearly all the other phenomena, the urgent symptoms of cholera, are benefited by opium when injected. At the temporary Wapping Cholera Hospital, and at St. George's Hospital, the marked beneficial effects of the injection were manifest with each injection. The cramps subside, the pains diminish, the frequency ofthe evacuations and of the vomiting becomes less, exhaustion of the nervous system is obviated, and the tendency to a healthy state in every way strengthened. In St. George's, during the last epidemic, the only case of the three admitted that recovered was thus treated with the puncture several times a day. Of the other applications of this treatment it is impossible to enter into, partly because the plan is constantly being used with some new object in view. It is right, however, 'to allude to the treat- ment of fevers and of ague by the injection of quinine. This has been extensively had recourse to by Drs. Desvigne, McCraith of Smyrna, Moore of Bombay, Saemann, Pihan Dufeillay, Dodeuil, &c., and, as a general result, these authors find the same advantages to attend this mode of em- ploying quinine as I had shown to follow the morphia injection, and they consider a great saving of the amount of quinine is thus gained. Sca- renzio has just recently proposed and carried out the injection of mercury in syphilis, upon the same principle of being thus able to eradicate the dis- ease with a far smaller amount of that drug. THE AGENTS TO EMPLOY FOR HYPODERMIC INJECTION. So long as these injections were presumed to act simply by their local introduction, anodynes were alone employed. Nepenthe was chiefly used in Scotland ; morphia dissolved in creosote (!) in Ireland; but, as the action of the method is now proved to be generally upon the system, tonics, stimulant?, and other medicines besides anodynes are constantly thus administered. Thus quinine is found quite effectual in far smaller hypodermic than stomachic doses (Moore). Syphilis has thus been treated by Scarenzio, &c. As a rule, the solutions of the alkaloids should be employed— not the tinctures, as they inflame and irritate the cellular tissue. The alkaloids and other prepara- tions which are now coming into regidar use by this plan are morphine, atropine, strychnine, co- deine, narceine, nicotine, hydrocyanic acid, aconi- lina, woorali, curarina, coneine, veratrine, digita- line, caffeine, calabar bean or eserine, daturine, &c.; also various agents like acetic acid, to act upon cancerous and other growths (Broadbent), &c. The hypodermic effect of atropine deserves a short notice here. I first employed it in 1859 {Medical Times ami Gazette, 1059), and have found it to be a medium of extraordinary power in a large class of affections, both neuralgic and spasmodic. Although more rapid in its action when injected than when given by the mouth, it produces less powerful signs of irritation—it does not cause retention to the same extent as when given by the mouth. Two or three atropine punctures will often cure a sciatica which had for months defied the internal administration of bella- donna, quinine, &c. By this mode of giving bella- donna, its permanent tonic effects are more pro- nounced, and the unpleasant effects on the digestive canal go off much sooner. The dose should vary fur the adult for neuralgia from the one-hundredth of a grain up to the one-twentieth, and for epilepsy up to the one-tenth. The thirtieth of a grain is often a most efficient dose. It may also be well combined with morphia in the proportion of one- eightieth to an eighth, or the sixtieth to a sixth of a grain with advantage, each modifj'ing the exces- sive symptoms of the other. Strychnia is one of the most valuable hypodermic tonics we possess, the more especially in affections of the nerves, in certain reflex paralytic affections or in chronic paralysis, after all activity about the clot has subsided in the nerve centre. The chief advantages to be derived from the hypodermic use of strychnia are— Ist. As a therapeutic test, for three or four in- jections will almost always show if strychnia has any power or not over that particular palsy. If they have no effect it is almost useless to continue their employment. 2nd, II is economical, both as regards amount of (a) alkilo'id to be used, and (6) time required/hr it to affect the system, (a) There is a great saving of the amount of strychnia required by this means over the stomachic employment of the same drug. The saving may be put at five-sixths of the amount which would be given by the mouth. For, so far as my obser- vation goes, the one-thirtieth of a grain, injected every other day for thirty times, will consume just one grain of strychnia in sixty daj's : now, if tlie somewhat ordinary dose of one-twentieth of a grain is given twice a day—and some physicians order the one-sixteenth and even the one-tweltth of a grain for a dose, it is evident that, in the sixty days, as much as six grains of strychnia are taken into the stomach. But, in cases of paralysis, where its continuance seems necessary, I do not, as a rule, inject the strychnia more often than twice a week, so that the saving is nine rather than six times less than the amount which expc-