SCROFULA. detrimental to the general healtli. The following is Dr. Cumin's advice respecting the mode of rearing a child, in which circumstances justifj' the opinion of a tendency to the disease :—" When the child of a scrofulous father is born, the infant, unless the mother is free from all traces of the dis- ease, ought to be consigned to a wet-nurse, of sound and robust constitution, having an abun- dant supply of milk. This alone ought, for some months, to be sufficient for the nourishment of the child; but, after a time, should it appear delicate, a little isinglass jelly may be allowed in addition, or liquid yolk of egg, or beef-tea, together with soioe preparation of wheaten menl, or flour, or pure starch. Daily immersion in cold water, and gentle friction of the whole body, will be found of great utility. The child ought to be warmly clothed; to be carried about in the open air as much as possible; and the apartment in which it sleeps ought to be kept at a steady moderate tem- perature, and perfectly well ventilated. All rooms, occupied as nurseries for children, ought to be spacious and lofty, never situated in a sunk floor, nor in an attic, and, if possible, considerably above the level of the ground." {Cumin, in Cyclop, of Pract. Med., art. S'cro/ula.) To all individuals, in whom a scrofulous dia- thesis is manifest, or even probable, and whose circumstances enable them to remove to a mild climate, and to localities judiciously selected, such change affords one of the best chances of prevent- ing or checking the disease. {See Sir Ja7nes Clark on Hie Influence of Climate.') The facts of scro- fula being so prevalent in cold damp countries, noted for extremely variable temperature, like this kingdom, and of its comparative rarity in, or total absence from, some other parts of the world, prove sufficiently, that climate is of all the exciting causes of scrofula the most powerful one. Climate and local circumstances also determine very much what form of scrofula predominates in any par- ticular country where the disease exists; for, in some places, we find the tubercular varieties of it are particularly common, though the disease in its other shapes is infinitely less frequent. ''For the cure of scrofula (says Cullen), we have not yet learned any practice that is certainly, or even generally, successful.'' With respect to mineral waters, he was not satisfied that they shortened the duration of the disease, whether they were chalybeate, sulphureous, or saline. Neither •did he think more favourably of sea-water. {First Lines of Physic, vol. iv,) On the subject of mineral waters. Dr. Thomson remarks, that they are now usually employed as purgative and tonic remedies, and not as specifics. In employing them, it' is often difficult to distinguish between the effects which they in reality produce, and those which are to be attributed to the slow operation of time, the season of the year, change of situation, altera- tion in the mode of life, or exercise in the open air. {Lectures on Inflammation, S[c. p. 195.) In scrofulims diseases, Dr. Fcirdyce had a high opinion of baik; and he endeavoured to prove, that, in cases of tumefied glands, attended with a feeble habit, and a weak circulation, it is a most efficacious medicine, and acts as a resolvent and discutient. He also brings forward a case, in sup- port of bark being a means of cure for ophthalmia strumosa. (See Med. Chs.and Inq. vol. i, p. 184.) Dr. Fothergill, iu the same work (p. 30a), writes in favour of the good effects of bark in similar cases; small doses of calomel being sometimes given with it. On the other hand, Cullen pro- nounces the efficacy of bark in scrofula to be du- bious and trivial. {First Lities, ^e. vol. iv.) According to Mr. Burns, bark has been fre- quently found useful in the cure of scrofulous in- flamraation, but more often of ulceration than tumefaction of the glands. But, it does not Bp« pear to him to possess, by any means, that certain power of curing scrofulous affections, which is at- tributed to it by Dr. Fothergill and several other authors. He observes, that we are not to suppose it will infallibly cure scrofulous inflammation, or ulceration of parts, which, even when affected with simple inflammation, are very difficult of cure. If it be difficult to cure a simple inflammation, or ulceration, of a tendon, cartilage, or bone, we must not be disappointed if even a specific remedy for scrofula (were such ever discovered) should prove ineffectual in procuring a speedy restoration to health. Mr. Burns contends, that bark is often in- effectual, because improperly administered. Given in small quantities, once or twice a day, it may prove a stomachic, and increase, like other tonic bitters, the power of the stomach, or the functions dependent on it; but, in order to obtain the bene- fits of the specific action of bark, he maintains, that it should be given in large quantities, for several weeks, with a good diet, air, and proper exercise. {On Inflammatimi, \o\. li. ■p. 37\.) Dr. Thomson does not believe that bark, or iron, has any specific virtue in curing scrofula ; but, he admits that either of these medicines may some- times prove useful in amending the tone of the digestive organs, when given after, or occasionally along with, a course of purgative mineral waters. (Lectures, p. 197.) When bark is prescribed, the sulphate of quinine is one of the best formula, as least likely to disagree with the stomach. So far as I can judge, Mr. White has with much reason recommended paying attention to such circumstances as may have effect in prevent- ing the disease, viz., pure air, cleanliness, exercise, and diet. He mentions cold bathing among the preventives of struma, and speaks of sea-bathing as being the best. He advises attent'on also to be paid to the manner of clothing children, keeping them more covered in winter than summer. He thought a great deal of sleep prejudicial; but this seems only conjecture. In noticing the treatment of the disease, Mr. White states, that " The general idea of struma is' that it is a disease of debility (a doctrine also in- culcated by Sir A. Cooper) and therefore the great object is, to invigorate the habit by every possible means ; the chief of which are tonic medicines, and sea-bathing. Some are of opinion that, in the case of young patients, this should be con- tinued, ditring the summer months, every year, to the age of fourteen or sixteen. Many recommend it, not only in the summer, but throughout the year ; whilst others are for adniinisiering alter- atives, principally the alkaline salts, with or with- out antimonials, and the different tonics, during the winter ; and the sea-water, and sea-bathing, or cold-bathing, during the summer, for a continu- ance of two or three years from the commence- ment of the disease; with this general observation that they will outgrow the complaint." Mr! White mentions, as tho thief external means'