for any topical applications to reach every point at which tlie separation occurs ? " ( Wcidmajin.) The same aiitlior justly condemns the practice of making incisions, for the purpose of exposing the whole snrface of a necrosis, immediatelj' the exist ence of the disorder is known. As such incisions soon close up aijain, so as to leave only a small outlet for the matter, they must be repeatedly practised before the dead bone becomes loose. The avowed design of them is to make room for the topical remedies, which are to render the exfolia- tion quicker; but, as these remedies possess no real efficacy, it follows that making incisions, before the dead bone is loose, only torments the patient without producing the least benefit. The orifices of the ulcers, then, which allow the discharge to escape freely, are sufllicient, and so long as the frag- ments of bone are not entirely detached, the sur- geon should abstain from the use of the knife. It appears to Weidmann, tliat the indications are . limzied to removing the original cause of the disease; to aUcviatmg the symptoms; to sujjporting the pa- tienVs strength, and improving the state of the con- stitution, tn tohatever state it may be bad; and laslltj m removing the dead portions of bone, luhen they become loose. Above all things, the surgeon must not regard every piece of exposed bone as necessarily affected with_ necrosis, and, in consequence of such idea have recourse to acrid, drying, caustic applications: isuch means are not only useless, but absolutely pernicious; because they may actually cause a ne- crosis, which did not exist before they were used and which would not have taken place at all if only mild simple dressings had been employed. When the disease presents itself with violent symptoms, the inflammation and fever bein-r in- tense the severity of the case is to be assuaged by low diet, mild antiphlogistic remedies, emollient applications, and narcotics to alleviate the pain- if this be very severe, with swelling and tension of tne part, and the irritative fever high, local bleed mg by leeches may be of service, but general depletion by venesection can scarcely ever be re quired. [Perfect quietude to the limb is essential, and must be insured : if suppuration take place—and this will be ushered in by rigors—incisions must be made, in the most suitable positions, to facilitate the escape of the matter, and the strength of the patient supported. When the disease assumes a chronic form, the soft parts about the bone may become greatly thickened from effusion of lymph and serum into them, giving rise to constitutional disturbance from repeated inflammatory attacks : mild counter-irritants, in the intervals of these attacks, will often relieve the pain and discomfort, and, by slightly stimulating the parts, hasten the separation of the dead bone and promote the re- , production of new. In certain cases gentle exercise of the limb will, in the same way, favour these pro- cesses : tonics and mild alteratives may also be given internally.] When the necrosis has ar scrofula, or scurvy, &c. the me to remedy these spates of the constitution should be employed. I cannot say, however, tliat my experience has taught me to believe, tliat, in ne- crosis from syphilis, mercury is generally useful <Jn the contrary, in necrosis of the bones of the palate and nose from this cause, I liave mostly NECROSIS, 313 found it hurtful to the constitution, and at least useless in relation to the dead bone itself. At the same time I must confess, that some examples of necrosis of the tibia from syphilis have fallen under my notice, where the ulcers never assumed a healthy character, and exfoliation made no pro- gress, till mercury had been administered. Similar lacts are adverted to by Mr. Stanley. Here a" he conjectures, mercury may quicken the action of the absorbents, independently of their influence on the constitutional affection. Instead of mercury the iodide of potassium, combined with decoct' sarsaj, or some bitter infusion, is far preferable • it rapidly improves the health, and quickens the action of the absorbents, or, as Velpeau terms it, the molecular action, by which exfoliation is ac- comphshed. This is an excellent medicine, not only in necrosis from syphilis, but in that from scrofula and other causes. Lastly, it is the duty of the practitioner to ex- tract the fragments of dead bone, in order that the deficiencies prodticed by them may be filled un and the ulcers of the soft parts heal. .i,^i''T'.'''^'° ^"<=<=«ed3 by herself in detachins the dead pieces of bone, can do very little in pro moting their passage outward. Frequently in- deed, she has no power at all in this process, and It is only from surgery that assistance can be de rived. When a dead piece of bone is still adherent at some points, its extraction should be postponed until it has become completely loose. If i^ ^ere forcibly pulled away, there would be danger of leaving a part of it behind, which must have time to separate ere the cftre can be accomplished But when a fragment is entirely detached, and the orifices of the sinuses are sufficiently lai4e it is to be taken hold of with a pair of forceps and extracted If the cavity has o'nly a J::i\^t ing suitable incisions must be practised, in order to facilitate the removal. Sometimes, the dead fragment protrudes from he opening and projects externally, so that if loose, It admits of being taken hold of with 'the fingers and removed. In this way, Weidmann took away a large dead piece of the humerus which protruded nearly two inches out of an ulcer in the middle of the arm. The patient w^ a young lad, fourteen years of age ; and the limb became again a useful one, although somewhat niisshapen, being concave within, convex externallv thicker, and one inch shorter than its fellow Hp got quite well three weeks after theremoval of the dead bone. \ '^'"'r ilr'^'^y '"^^""''^ *° example re- corded by Weidmann, in which a shoemaker re- moved by himself nearly the whole body of the tibia. Doubtless the projection of the bone and Its looseness, enabled the man to do this eVsHy with his fingers. But there are cases whfch p c. sent more diihculty : such are those in which the sequestrum is included in a cavity, either of he original or new bone. '"^ 1 -^''^ ol'l surgeons were in the bni^tf „p nsen from syphilis, tating limbs which were in this tat . r^",- ■nedicnes calculated instances were not wanting in their dS, " rnMa(itMt;„„ ..1—11 ,1 ., ... ,. "'"•'■■}, tia^'s to prove the posMbihty oi relieving the disea e without amputation. Tills blameable custom of ren oS every Innb, thus affected, is justly exploded Tom modern ..iirgery. Albucasis was the first who attempted to euro such a necrosis by the judicious employment of the knife and sa;v. (Lib! if.