046 VENEREAL DISEASE. regiment, sixt^'-eight cases were treated without iiVercury, all bearing marks of the true venereal dis- ease (twenty-eight of ihem having been especially selected for their decided characters of chancre), yet no secondary symptoms of any kind had taken place fifteen months after the treatment had ceased. The same document, f.unded on the above large number of cases, confirms another fact, that no peculiar secondary symptoms follow peculiar pri- mary symptoms—a conclusion which is directly adverse to Mr. Carmichael's opinions. According to Mr. Hunter, the time necessary for the appearance or production of the local ef- fects, in parts roost susceptible of the disease, after the virus"has passed into the constitution, is gene- rally about six weeks; but, in many cases, the period is much longer; while, in other instances it is shorter. Sometimes the local effects make their appearance as early as a fortnight after the possibility of absorption. The elfects on other parts of the body which are less susceptible of the venereal irritation, or slower in their action, says Mr. Hunter, are much later in making their appearance. And when the first and second order of parts are both conta- minated (that is to say, in secondary and tertiary syphilis), the effects, generally, do not begin to appear in the latter till after a considerable time, and sometimes not till those affecting the loriner parts have been cured. Mr. Hunter, however, refers to instances in which the periosteum, or bone, was affected before any of the first order of parts; but he was uncer- tain whether the skin or throat would afterwards have become diseased, as rthe disorder was not allowed to go on. , According to Delpech, the principal moroid effects produced on the bones by syphilis, are periostoses, exostoses, and necrosis. As for caries, which has been commonly set down as a conse- quence of the disease, he says that authors have -renerally mistaken neurosis for it; and that the pretended examples of caries of the bones of the nose and palate are, in fact, more or less extensive denudations and mortifications of the maxiHary and turbinated bimes^ the septum nasi, &c. (See Chr. Glin. t. i. p. 355.) . Venereal Eruptions.—T:\\e whole-tenor of various facts, specified in the foregoing columns, tends to prove that what is usually called the venereal dis- ease is, if not several diseases, at all events one that is infinitely modified by constitution, climate, regi- men, and mode of treatment. And lience, perhaps and partly also from certain circumstances on which the investigations of M. Ricord have now thrown liRht, the chief source of all the perplexity and nncertaintv, which have frequently raised doubts whether any disease corresponding to the former notions of syphilis really exists. Were any proof of the truth of this refiection needed, in addition to the manv other proofs of it already premised, the Bubject of venei-eal eruptions would at once fur- nish it; for here no kind of regularity can he traced, either in the appearances on the skin abstractedly considered, or in the connection be- tween certain kinds of primary ulcers and parti- cular forms of cutaneous disease. Nay, as 1 have noticed in the preceding pages, sometimes, in con- sequence of a primary venereal sore, different kinds of eruptions form together, or successively on sne individual; and, so far as one can judge by the eye, exactly the. same kind of chancre may produce very different erupliims in different per- sons, even "thougli treated on precisely the same plan. These circumstances are truly confusing. In Mr. Rose's paper, however, there is a partial confirmation of one part of Mr. Carmichael's theory, viK. the frequency of papular eruptions after simple primary ulcers, or superficial sores, which readily heal. According to the latter gen- tleman, this form of eruption may also follow go- norrhoea, and is generiilly .preceded by fever, and ends in desquamation. There is as little certainty about the essential characters of syphilitic eruptions as about the test of every other symptom of the venereal disease. While Mr. Hunter describes the erup- tion as generally occurring over the whole body, Dr. Bateman states that syphilitic affections of the skin commonly make their first appearance on the face, where they are usually copious, and on the hands and wrists. ( Synopsis of Cuiuneons Diseases, p. 332, 3rd ed.) The colour, he says, ij in general less vivid than that of ordinary eruptions, being of a brownish red of different shades; hut that this 'is not universal; for seme of the syphilitic ecthymata have a bright red base in the beginning. Exposure to cold accelerates their progress, and increases their extent; while, on the other hand, warmth retards and ameliorates them, (P. 333.) According to Hunter, the discolorations make the skin appear mottled, and nmwy of the erupliong disappear, whilai others continue and increase with the disease. . . In other case8,'the eruption comes on in distinct blotches, which are often not observed till the scurf has begun to form. At other times, the eruption assumes the appearance of small distinct inflammations, containing matter, and refeu<blmg pimple?, not being, however, so pyiamidal, nor so red at the base. Mr. Hunter ^Iso observes that venereal blotches, on their fii«t coming out, are often attended with inflammation, which gives them a degree of transparency, which is genera y greater in the summer than the winter, especially if the patient be kept warm. In a little time, this inflammation disappears, and the cuticle peels ott in the form of scurf. The latter occurrence often misleads the patient and the surgeon, who look upon tills dying away of the inflammation as a de- cay of the disease, till a succession of scurfs uuae- ceives them. The parts affected assume a copper-colour, a , begin to form dry, inelastic cuticle, called a scutfj or scale. This is thrown off, and new ones are formed, which spread to the breadth ot a sixpence or shilling; but seldom more extensively, at least for a considerable time. In the meanwhile, every • succeeding scale becomes tliicker and thicker, m at last it becomes a common scab, ihen lae disposition to the formation of matter takes p ace in the cutis underneath, and a true u cer 's prodiu:ed, whick commonly spreads al houg slnwlv. When the affected part of '■^^'f'" ' oppos'ed by another portion of sk.n, whicu keep it in some degree more moist, as between the nates, about the arms, between the ^-^f"'"-." f'Vthe , tliigh, in the angle between the two t "'s''^; o '" red^art of the lip, or in the armpits, tl.e erupt on . instead of being attended with ""^^^ » f/^^J are accompanied with an ''f » which is swollen with extravasated lymph into a