970 VENEREAL DISEASE. permanentlj'occluded by organised false membrane. In nearly the whole of the last cases,in which the effusion was never absorbed, the patients came nnder care onlj^ at a late period of the disease, after the lympli had become organised, and but ■very little chance of its removal remained. To Cases 7 and 13,1 may point as interesting illustra- tions of the efficiency of mercnriuls in procuring the removal of lymph whicli aireadj' appeared to be vascular, and the absorption of which was by no means expected." From Chapter VII., on Deafness in connection with Inherited Syphilis, p. 174, we select the following :— " In some cases of deaf syphilitic patients, the history given is of otorrhcEa, pain, &c., and other evidences of external inflammation ; in others no such symptoms have been present. " A form of deafness which occurs in these pa- tients, and which, as far as what little observation I have made on the subject goes,appears to be peculiar to them, is one in which the function fails without any external disease. It is usually symmetrical. Not unfrequently its stages are rapidly passed through, and a patient who six months ago could hear almost perfectly, becomes—without otorrhoea, and without any marked degree of pain—utterly deaf." Having detailed twenty-one cases of deafness, ■which he considers dependent on inherited syphilis, he makes the following general remarks on them (pp. 18-2-3) :— " It will be seen, that all of the cases in which the ears were inspected go to support the belief, that the deafness of syphilitic children is due either to disease of the nerve itself, or to some changes in non-accessible parts of the auditory apparatus. Its symmetry in all the cases would point to a central cause. In none were there found adequate changes in the membrana tympani, although in none ■was that membrane quite normal. In all the Eustachian tubes were pervious ; ray belief there- fore is, that the deafness in these cases is due rather to disease of the nerves, or of their distribution in the labyrinth. The cases constitute the analogues of syphilitic retinitis, and of white atrophy of the optic nerves." " With regard to the prognosis of heredito-syphi- litic deafness. I believe tliis is very unfavourable. When the disease wiis progressive, I have rarely witnessed any permanent improvement or arrest. In most it has gone on to total loss of hearing, and this in several instances, in spite of the cautious use of specific remedies, almost from the beginning. From six months to a year would appear to be the usual time required for the completion of the pro- cess, and the entire abolition of the function." But it is not possible by quotations to do justice to Mr. Hutchinson's labours in the interesting field of inquiry which he has so assiduously cultivated. A perusal of his memoir can alone enable the reader to reap the full advant iges to be derived from it. We have only spiice to mention, that fourteen cases of "inflammation of choroid and n-tina," six cases of "so-called aquo capsulitis," three cases of "in- flammation of the lens and vitreous," seven cases of "amaurosis with white atrophy," ten cases of " diseases of the ocular appendages," and eleven " miscellaneous cases," all attributed to inherited syphilitic cachexia, will be found narrated witli great exactness in the work we refer to. In an Appendix is added twenty-five cases of " s)'philitic choroiditis, retinitis, &c.," resulting from acquired disease, with remarks on their treatment,pathology, and prognosis. Without giving in our adhesion to ail Mr. Hutchinson's views,we think the profession may be well satisfied that the subject of the diathetic influence of inherited 83'philis will be thoroughly investigated by him, and could not be in better hands. It will, however, require all his perseverance, zeal, and acknowledged talent to convince pathologists that inherited syphilis will account for all the cases of " ground-glass opacity of the cornea," or of " the verticall)'notched teeth." But we are prepared to admit, that to him must be accorded the merit of establishing the important fact, that the majoritj' of these cases do owe their existence to this diathesis. With respect to the " ground-glass opacity of the cornea," we may observe that struma, which was hitherto accrediied with being the sole cause of this slow and destructive change in the cornea, may possibly still account for some of the cases of this disease, and that consequently the therapeutic means adopted to counteract the strumous diathesis may prove as successful as those administered for the cure of inherited syphilis. Bearing upon this point, Mr. Hutchinson himself states (p. 12G);— " Although, however, I have no doubt as to the superior efficacy of specifics, yet I would carefully guard my readers against expecting too much from their use. This form of keratitis runs but too often a very protracted course, in spite of the best con- trived plan of treatment. Neither mercurials nor iodides will, as a rule, cut it short. If given to patients in fair general health, at a very early period of the attack, they will, I believe, prevent the effu- sion from being copious, and very much limit both the extent and duration of the disease. But if the surgeon expect from them such proof of specific efficacy as we often see displayed in the various forms of acquired (i.e. not hereditary) syphilis, he will be disappointed." Again, with regard to the imperfection in the development of the teeth, in which the charac- teristic notches described by Mr. Hutchinson are found, it should be borne in mind, that in very many suflFerers from inherited syphilis they are not pre- sent. Mr. Hutchinson would probably say, that in such cases there was little or not sufficient stomatitis during the period of growth of the per- manent teeth to interfere with their normal deve- lopment. But by admitting stomatitis to be the proximate cause of the malformation of the teeth, does he not acknowledge that stomatitis, from other causes during teething, may similarly inter- fere with their proper development ? Be this as it may, on taking leave of tliis part of our subject, we feel bound to express our opinion that the pro- fession are greatly indebted to Uv. Hutchinson for an advance in our knowledge of this branch of surgery.] [Si/pJdlisailon.—Fv'ior to the date of was received bv the profession as an establisheO fact, that the svphilitic virus was peculiar to the human species, but at this date M. Auzias Turenne, being strongly influenced by the known f^^js 'l>at so many animal poisons could be transferred nom animals to man, and from man to animals, ana not satisfied with the authorities of Hunter, Kicora, and others, who, after frequent trials by niocuia-