812 URINARY ABSCESSES, ETC, at tlic point at which the needle was originally eiitiTi^d. The thread therefore now lies deeply in tlie cellular tissue around the fistula, at about tliree or four lines' distance from it. The two ends are then to be drawn together gently and slowly, so as to tighten the thread, and gradually approximate the borders of the fistulous orifice until it is obliterated. Lastly, the ends are to be fastened by a knot, whicli, when fastened, sinks into the cellular tissue, and disappears. A piece of wet lint is to be applied to tlie part, the sound withdrawn, and the patient directed to pass urine, when requiring to do so, by the natural passage. In three or four days the ligature may be divided, and drawn awaj'. ""Even," says DiefFenbach, " if the first applica- tion does not quite close the opening, this is rendered smaller, and the succeeding operation is easy, and certain to succeed." But when the opening is too large for such treatment, it is necessary to resort to a plastic operation for its cure. Such proceedings are com- paratively of recent date; the first on record, which I have been able to discover, being one designed and successfully performed by Sir A. Cooper in 1818. A man, ajt. 56, had an ante-scrotal open- ing, half an inch in length; the margins of this were pared, and a flap was dissected from the scrotum, leaving a broad attachment. It _ was kept in place by four sutures and by plaister. Adhesion was ultimately perfect. Another case followed in the practice of Mr. Earle, of Bartholo- mew's, in 1819. Here the opening was perineal; liie first operation failed, but the second, also by flap, in the following year, completely succeeded. In these two cases the plans of proceeding were totally different: in them we have the germs of those modes of operating since adopted in other countries. In dealing with the ante-scrotal fistulae which were too large to be remedied by the "lace suture," sucli, for example, as would permit the introduction of a full-sized catheter, Diefifenbach proceeds as follows:—A large catheter having been introduced into the bladder, the rounded orifice of the fistula is converted into a lozenge- shaped one, bv the removal of a small piece of skin above and below it. A longitudinal incision through the skin was then made on each side, at the distance of about half an inch, or a little more. The point of a fine scalpel is next to be carefully carried, by successive strokes, beneatli the skin which intervenes between the two in- cisions, so as to detach it from the subjacent parts, and form what Dieff'enbach called " a bridge," for tiie purpose of permitting wwe to escape from the fistulous opening at the lower extremity of eilher incision: tiie borders of tlie fistula are also to be revived. Although sometimes failing, this method may be regarded as affording a fair chance of success, provided that the aperture is not too large. It is based, as will be observed, upon the principle of bringing into contact, not mere ed<jcs of lldn tissue. the adhesion of which cannot be expected to take place, but broad surfaces freshly cut, and main- tained in apposition by light compression. It may be laid down, however, as a general rule, that success is not to be expected by this operation if applied to openings that measure more th;in the third of an incli in any direction. Since the introduction of the lead plate and : silver suture fastened with shot or lead clamp*, for the vesico-vaginal fistula, I have twice em- ployed it for the male subject; in one case for a large ante-scrotal opening, in the other for a peri- neal one. In the former case it was most success- ful; in the latter it failed. The patient should be previously made proficient in passing the catheter, so that he may withdraw all his urine easily for 10 or 14 days after the operation. This has also been accomplished in another way. M. Segalas adopted the method of diverting altogether the course of the urine by an artificial perineal opening during the process of healing in the anterior wound. He did this successfully in 1839, for a patient the subject of scrotal and perineal fistula;, dilating the latter by the bistoury, at the same time that he operated on the former; a catheter being maintained afterwards in the bladder, but through the perineal fistula. (" Lettre a Dieffenbach." Paris, 1840. P. 48.) Jobert, on the other hand, thinks the perineal opening un- necessary; and opposes it on the ground of the presumed dangerous nature of the operation. This plan was adopted by Mr. J. Lane in St. Mary's Hospital, in the case of a cliild with a fistulous opening just in front of the scrotum, resulting from an incision made to extract an impacted calculus. The urethra was opened in the perineum, and an elastic catheter was retained in the bladder through this opening while the fistula was healing. The edges of the fistula, having been denuded, were brought together with silver sutures fastened through a leaden plate. Ininrti- diate and firm union was obtained, at the end of ten days the catheter in the perineum was dis- pensed with, and the perineal opening quickly healed. In Mr. J. Lane's opinion, the lead plate is of great value in a case of this kind, by keeping the wound uniformly on the stretch in the longitu- dinal direction, and preventing the gaping caused by the penis falling down upon the scrotum. _ In several cases, published at great length in his work, which M. Jobert treated by transplantation of a flap (this being maintained in its new position with sutures in the usual way), the exit of the urine was provided for by maintaining constantly in the passage a gum-elastic catheter, but the union was often totallv wanting, and was never otherwise than incomplete" at first. The flow of urine out- wards through the wound could not be prevented, and the track by which it issued was alwaj^ marked by non-union. Consequently repeated oprrations were frequently necessary on the siime individual. Generallv speakinc, it is, as before- said, the wisest plan to teach the patient himself toi pass the catheter before commencing any operation, and not to undertake it until he is able to do so with perfect ease. He must also be sufficiently, interested in the successful issue of the proceedings, to undertake the task of drawing off the urine bjr catheter on every occasion, night or day, wUcnever it is requisite; and that for a period certainly ot some weeks. If this be accomplished the opera- lion has a fair chance of sncceedmg. It is necessarv, in order to complete ""^ P"" " the subject, to allude to Dieffeuhach's method for closing openings into the urethra ""mfoiately be- hind theglans in the situation of ^^^-^^^^^ Such arc usually the result of chancrnns nlceiation.^ 11 is scarcely possible to describe the various and