DISEASE. 979 VENEREAL Successfully ad hifinilum, but that the susceptibility to its iiiHuence becomes gnidually exhausted. At the commencemeut of the tiviUment the iiiocnha- tions could, as a rule, be continued thronjjh a series of twelve or fifteen generations, without re- quiring the matter to be renewed, while tiie sub- sequent series became gradually shorter, until at length the result was altogether negative, or only small pustules were obtained, which could not again be inoculated. In many cases this immunity was tested repeatedly with matter from different sources. In some patients the immunity was less perfect, and with fresh matter two or three gene rations of pustules could be obtained, but these were small and imperfect, and rapidly healed, so that for all practical purposes the treatment came to an end. The longest series obtained in any case was thirty-eight (Case 5), and there were some between twenty and thirty. There were several e.^ceptions to the rule that the first series was the longest, and the longest of all (thirty-eight) oc- curred towards the conclusion of the case. " In testing the degree of imm\n)ity, it should be remembered that the development of a small pustule, after the inoculation of new matter, is not sufficient evidence against the presence of this condition, as any irritant introduced beneath the skin may have the same effect. The only true test of a genuine syphilitic inoculation is, thiit it shall produce matter which is again inoculable. " It is also interesting to observe, that whether the matter employed was obtained from hard or from soft sores, the same degree of immunity was the result ; and that the inoculation of matter from a hard sore would, in due course, cause insuscep- tibility to the action of that from a solt sore, and vice voma ; and also when the patient had been treated partly with one matter g,nd partly with the other, the immunity was equal against both."] [We will conclude by transcribing the greater part of the valuable Report of the; Committee ap- pointed by the Secretary of State for War and the Board of Admiralty to inquire into'the Pathology and Treatment of the Venereal Disease, published in 1867. This Committee consisted of Mr. Skey (chai rman), Mr. Cock, the late Dr. Kirkes (suc- ceeded by Dr. Babington, also deceased), Mr. Qiiain, Mr. Spencer Smith (secretary). Dr. Wilks, Dr. T. Oraham Ualfour (appointed to represent the A rmy Medical Board), and Dr. Donnet (to represent the Naval Medical Board). The Committee ex- amined upwards of sixty physicians and surgeons whose position and facilities of observation ren- dered their opinions desirable in reference to the pathology and treatment of the venereal disease. As many as 7,074 questions were put and an- swered during the investigation of the subject by the Committee. The report embodies the infer- ences drawn by the Committee from the collective opinions and ample information elicited from the various gentlemen who appeared as witnesses before them. It will be seen by the preceding pages that we agree for the most part with the opinions expressed in the Report. In a few points, however, we have ventured to differ from both the pathology and treatment therein advocated. " The Syphilitic Sore is seen under three forms : one characterised by induration throughout its entire course ; one soft in its early stage and bc- coming subsequently indurated; and one soft throughout its whole course, but which, unlike the simple local sore, is followed by constitutional disease. " This physical character of hardness in a sore is, as a rule, detectable by the touch, although it may vary in degree. It is, however, necessary to distinguish the occasional thickening formed around the base of a soft sore, the result of local treat- ment or accident, from the true induration of specific disease. " Tlie Hard Sore is marked by well-defined induration at its base. This induration, present ah initio, constitutes its characteristic feature. True syphilitic induration presents itself in three different forms: 1st, in that of a cup-shaped cavity or ulcer on an indurated base ; •2nd, in that of a shallow abrasion or excoriation, com- monly of an ash-grey or livid colour, also on an indurated base ; and, 3rd, in tliat of a deposit of well-defined induration beneath unbroken skin. From the two former a serous ichor exudes ; from the last there is no moisture, because there is no ulceration. "The sore marked by specific induration, ah initio, is rarely met with ; probably not in a greater pro- portion to other primary sores than one in fifteen, or more ; but the proportion varies greatly at dif- ferent times and in different localities. " It is not frequently brought under the eye of the surgeon within fifteen or eighteen days, dating from the period of intercourse {vide ' Incubation,' Sect. 8). Often twenty-five days have elapsed before its appearance. It presents itself in one of the three forms already described. It may occupy the inner surface of the prepuce, the fossa, the glans, or the external integument. When seated on the glans it is supposed that the induration is imperfectly developed. This is only occasionally true : on the contrary, when the glans is the seat of the disease, the induration is often more than usually extensive. " In persons affected with this form of sore, the constitution may become involved before the prim- ary disease enters on the stage of ulceration, or even without ulceration occurring at all. " Throughout its course the hard sore may be said to be almost dry, and neither the primary sore itself nor the glands produce pus, the secretion of which attends every other variety of venereal sore. " The Soft Sore.—While the hard sore, as a rule commences with induration, to which the destruc- tion of surface succeeds, it is probable that soft sores commence as pustules or papules, which pass into ulceration. Some observers have stated that a sore marked by protracted ulceration is more liable to involve the constitution than a sore that has passed quickly through its stages. " Iwjuinal Glands.—All primary venereal sores are liable to involve the inguinal glands ; the soft frequently, the hard almost invariably. In the case of soft sores which involve the inguinal glands, such irritation occurs at a more or less remote data from the first appearance of the primary sore ; in the case of the hard sores, the enlargement of these glands is almost concurrent with or quickly follows the first indication of hardness. In the case of soft sores, the inguinal glands appear to involve in their morbid action the surrounding tissues prior to suppuration, in addition to the glandular struc- 3 It 3