TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE. AfcJ. p. 458, vol. XXIX.), or evacuation of its con- tents with a small trocar, will relieve the pain and tension greatly when the collection of iluid is Luge. Local venesection, by opening one of the dis- tended scrotal veins, has been advantageously I'lactised ; it reduces the vascular engorgement of the skin, and therefore diminishes the symptoms. Blistering the scrotum and the application of 1 tiler counter-irritants have been tried in the more clironic cases, but this mode of treatment causes great sutlcring to the patient, and should not be employed except the affection be very obstinate, and other remedies have failed. Orchitis, or Iiiflammaiion of the body of the Tes- ticle, may be of two kinds, acute and chronic. The acute variety is of rare occurrence, and gene- rally results from an injury to the testis; it may, however, follow an attack of epididymitis, in con- sequence of the inflammation reaching the body of the organ; in mumps, also, as the swelling is sub- siding in the salivary glands, one or both of the testicles may become inflamed; this is supposed to be due to a metastasis of the inflammation.] Acute orchitis commences with swelling of the gland and tenderness, so that the pressure of the ihigh can scarcely be borne. This is succeeded by pain of a constant dull aching character, which soon becomes very severe; and, the weight of the testis being much increased, the spermatic cord is drawn painfully downwards, so that the patient seeks to obtain some relief by supporting the part with his hands. The pain is obtuse, resembling the suffering caused by squeezing the testicle. The pain and swelling extend along the spermatic cord into the inguinal canal, and great uneasiness is experienced in the groin, hip, inner part of the thighs, and especially the loins, in consequence of the origin of the spermatic nerves from the lumbar plexus of the sympathetic. " From the communi- cation between the renal and spermatic nerves, with the nerves of the stomach by the solar plexus, and with those of the intestines through the me- senteric plexus, the stomach is affected with nausi'a, and sometimes severe vomiting," whilst pain in the intestines and obstinate constipation are usually experienced. {Sir Astley Cooper, Op. cit. part ii. p. 8.) [Thesudden vomiting and faintness which nearly nlwa3's ensue from an injury to the testicle may also be explained in the same way. The pain in the loins is occasionally very in- tense, and is aggravated by the least movement, so that the patient walks with difficulty, inclining his body forwards, seeking thereby to relax the muscles and gain some slight relief from suffering.] In some cases it happens that the pressure made by the tendon of the external oblique on the swollen cord is the occasion of great pain, which sometimes undergoes severe exacerbations from spasms of the creraaster muscle, adding much to the distress. The flattened oval shnpe of the enlarged testis, with the epididymis unaffected at its posterior border, can be well made out, until effusion has taken place into the tunica vaginalis; this, how- ever, is not so constant, and is far less in amount than when the epididymis is inflamed, and, unless this be the case, the skin of the scrotum is or- dinarily but little altered in appearance.] During the violence of the inflammation, the constitution is often greatly disturbed; the tongue becoming furred, the pulse quick and hard, the skin hot, the bowels confined, and general febrile irritation. It has been observed that, when acute in- flammation of the testicle arises from sympathy with the urethra, it rarely proceeds to suppuration; but when it is the effect of a blow, or of vicissitude of temperature, suppuration sometimes, though not frequently, follows; and then all the symptoms are aggravated, and shiverings added to those al- ready described. In fact, the purulent matter being confined by the fibrous covering of the tunica albuginea, a texture that ulcerates with difficult}', much time elapses before the abscess bursts ; and when this happens, several openings and sinuses are frequently formed, which discharge both pus and seminal fluid, and are difficult to heal. {Sir Astley Cooper, Op. cit. p. 10-12.) [Suppuration is an unusual termination of in- flamed testis, and when it does occur, it is nearly always in scrofulous persons, or in those whose health has become much impaired. Sloughing of the testicle has been occasionally met with as the result of acute orchitis, and even gangrene, but they are of very rare occurrence. When the ab- scess has given way and discharged its contents, it may heal up, as in any other part of the body; but commonly the gland protrudes through the opening formed in the skin, and adheres firmly to its mar- gins, giving rise to a red granular-looking swelling, which has been called " the granular swelling of the testis," fungus testis, and hernia testis, under which latter name the affection will hereafter be specially described.] Sir Astley Cooper has remarked that" a wound of the testis does not produce the pain and inflam- matory effects which might be anticipated ; for I have several times known a lancet, and even a trocar, thrust into its substance. It is followed by a sickening pain, and the patient sometimes vomits; but the wound heals readih', and v/ithout suppura- tion. In one case, however, in which the trocar was twice thrust into a testis, violent inflam- mation and suppuration succeeded." (Od cit p. 19.) ^' • [Although a contusion will sometimes lead to de- structive inflammation, or even complete disorgani- sation of the texture and function of the testicle, yet the effects of a punctured or incised wound are seldom of a severe character, and so little does the organ resent this kind of injury that the treat- ment of orchitis by repe;rted punctures into the body of the gland ha? been recommended by M. Vidal de Cassis, according to whom it has been attended by the most satisfactory results. {Treatise on Venereal Diseases, Translation by Blachnan, p. 138.) M. Cullerier has also practised this method, and has not found any ill-effects follow the punctures. {Des Affections 'blennorrhaqiqties p. 112.)] ' The testicle, not yet descended into the scrotum may inflame from a blow, or the pressure of a truss, and give rise to excessive pain, with vomit- ing, constipation, tenderness in the abdomen, and severe febrile disturbance. [When lodged in the inguinal canal, the testicle appears to be more pione to disease than when it has reached its normal position in the scrotum • and not only is it more subject to inflanuuatioii when retained in the groin, in consequence of the pressure exercised upon it by the abdominal