258 LITHOTRITY, the stone has been got rid of by direct and precise surgical interference. (Zoo. cit. p. 3.) The account recently given by Mr. Fergusson of his experience in operations for stone in the bladder by lithotomy as well as by lithotrity is well worthy of notice in this place. He says, ' I can give a list of lithotomy and lithotrity conjoined, which, in as far as I know, has fallen to the lot of few other men in Britain. I have personally by operations treated 271 cases—162 by lithotomy, and 109 by lithotrity. Although having been little more than half the time of Crichton's experience, I have had 70 cases of the disease more than he had. Of the 271,1 have lost 47; and that shows a mortality of something more than 1 in 7—not a bad average as operations for stone go; but lithotomy cases being included, I consider it low indeed. And I have now to state that which I look upon as of high in- terest in the modern history of surgery. Of these 271 cases, 217 were adults; 110 have been treated by lithotomy, and of that number 33 have died; 109 have been treated by litliotrity, and of that number 12 have died.' {Lectures on the Proffiess of Surgery durmg the present Century, Lancet, June 24, 1865.) Lithotrity, from its nature, is not one of those operations which can be completed without inter- ruption. Whenever the stone is small and friable we may get rid of it by a single manipulation, and such cases occasionally present themselves; but as a general rule, the surgeon should content himself with making the first sitting short, about five or six minutes. The calculus is thus reduced into mo- derately sized fragments, and subsequently', when the organs have become less irritable, the manipu- lations may be prolonged for ten minutes at a time. This is a rule from which M. Civiale and the most successful operators never deviate. ' I have come to the conclusion,' says Sir B. Brodie,' that it is a more prudent, and in the end a more expeditious mode of proceeding, to be content, on any one occasion, with crushing the calculus only to a moderate extent.' It is not possible to lay down any fixed rule as to the time when the second operation may be commenced, or as to the intervals which should elapse between the several sittings. These must depend on the circumstances of each case, prin- cipally on the amount of irritation which has been produced. However, from three to eight days should, generally speaking, elapse between each operation, to allow the fragments or detritus to come away, and any irritation excited by the ma- nipulations to subside. The symptoms which follow the operation of .ithotrity may next be noticed; and to prevent confusion, it is necessary to observe that lithotrity is really made up of a succession of operations. The term operation will, therefore, be confined to the whole proceeding, from commencement to cure; while the successive operations which makeup the whole may be called either sittings or manipula- tions. In very favourable cases the operation can hardly be said to be followed by any symptoms at all. A single manipulation may suffice; the patient is not confined to bed, and walks about in three or four days. Slightly increased frequency of mic- turition, with perhaps a little scalding are the only symptoms noticed. But from the nature of the complaint which the surgeon is called upon to treat, he cannot expect to meet often with such favourable cases. The manipulations must necessarily produce more orlosi irritation of the bladder, followed by some pain, increased desire to pass water, and frequently a slight degree of fever. These symptoms generally appear on the day following the first sitting, and subside in five or six days. In other cases the symptoms of reaction are more severe, for the manipulations have been more difficult. The bladder contracts strongly, the scalding is severe, the desire to make Avater fre- quent; the febrile symptoms more marked. Here, the second sitting must be deferred for several days, during which appropriate treatment is emploj'ed. Finally, in a small number of cases, the Irrita- bility and contractile disposition of the bladder are excited by the first manipulation to such a degree that the operation must be tabandoned. Any attempt to continue it would be highly imprudent. Each manipulation, as we have remarked, con- sists—in the introduction of certain instruments into the bladder—in seizing the calculus—in breaking and pulverizing it—finally, in pro- moting the discharge of detritus. Whatever im- pedes any of these several proceedings may become an obstacle to the successful completion of the operation; but the principal obstacles are connected with the state of the prostate, the condition of the bladder, and the size, consistencj', or position of the stone. Any considerable enlargement of the prostate, especially of its middle lobe, not only produces a mechanical obstacle, but several other unfavourable effects. ' It diminishes the capacity of the bladder, deepens its floor, and tends to conceal the stone in a cavity behind the enlarged gland. This condition sometimes causes a difficulty in seizing the calculus, arising either from its lying behind that part of the gland which projects into the bladder, or from the impediment which it offers to the elevation of the handle of the instrument.' (Brodie.) In such cases Sir B. Brodie reconnnends us to lower the shoulders and elevate the pelvis. ' If the calculus does not at once drop into the blades of the forcpps, the patient may be directed to walk round the room, or to change his position as he lies, by turning first on one side and then on the other, the bladder being afterwards emptied by the catheter and then again injected with tepid water.' In the writer's opinion, however, when the pro- stateis enlarged, the method recommended by Sir B. Brodie does not meet the difficultiesnf thecase. The handle of the instrument should be depressed so ns to raise the beak from the floor of the bladder; and whilst in this situation it should be completely rotat- ed,the concave part being turned downwards. The handle should then be raised, so that the instrument incline to the floor of the bladder, and the male blade be drawn forwards as far as the prostate. By this manipulation a stone or fragment is mora easily picked up from the depression belinid the gland. , The condition of the bladder itself may be the cause of certain obstacles which must be taken into account. In manv old cases of stone the bladuer is hypertrophied, "its fleshy columns are strongly developed, while the organ is at tl>e Bam« t.me much contracted and irritable. 11 .s then d.flicult to make the bladder retain a sufficient quantity oi