VARIX. 906 erect posture, particular!}' if combined with futigup, I pressed vein swells more above than below the as in marching, is probably the cause wh}' some trades and professions are so obnoxious to the disease under consideration ; while exposure to wet and cold, or to great heat, is the reputed source of the affection in the case of others. The frequent establishment of a state of hypera;mia is at least a strong predisposing cause. This is seen in effect in the neck of the bladder of old men, and those who have long suffered from calculous disease. The increased activity of the circulation, and perhaps the pressure exercised on the deep vessels, accounts in all probability for the varicose condition observed in the vessels around diseased joints and scirrhous tumors. Sub-acute inflammation attacking veins is a strong predisposing cause of phlebectasis. The gravid uterus, uterine polypi, cysts of the ovary, some diseases of the liver, tumors of the groin, ligatures (as tight garters or over-tight lacing"), phlebitis terminating in limited obliteration, oft- renewed or long-maintained muscular exertion, by which the blood is forced from the deep into the superficial veins—all these act mechanically in bringing about a dilated condition of the veins. Ilerapath of Bristol has described a varicose con- dition of the saphena due to the influence of the fiilsiform edge of the opening in the fascia lata strangulating the vein. A varicose condition of the veins at the bend of the elbow may be due to the wounding of the artery a? well as the vein in venesection, and the establishment of a communi cation in consequence between the vessels (see Aneurismal Varix). Pigeaux thought that such a communication was the invariable source of varices, founding his opinion on the brighter colour of the blood contained in such dilatations to that which is present in unaffected veins, and the fact that varicose tumors not uncommonly pnlsate synchronously with the arterial pulse, J. L. Petit explained the former phenomenon by the rapidity with which the blood passed through the enlarged capillaries, preventing it being de- colorised, and the subjacent position of an artery is in most cases the cause of the pulsation. The weight of the column of blood is the probable cause of the prevalence of the affection in tall persons. The gouty diathesis is supposed to act as predisposing, and a critical effort of nature to reli.'ve herself from a severe internal disease has been vaguely set down by some writers as an exciting" cause. Gunshot wounds of the lower extremities, especially when the injury has been attended by much deep bruising and little super- ficial destruction, has been considered by Dupuy- tren and Hennen as causing the development of varices ; and Velpeau mentions simple contusion, and other writers sword wounds and strains, as acting in the same manner. In the case of the lower limbs, it is plain that there are certain con- ditions which must have a considerable influence in predisposing to or establishing a state of dila- tation in the veins. The long column of blood, the pressure of the viscera of the abdomen on the vena cava inferior, and the effect of muscular jiction—all serve to impede the return of the blood to the heart, and so to bring about that stiite of matters which is under consideration. Rima of Venice, judging from tiie fact that (1) the blood flows from both the upper and t!ie lower orifices of veins when cut, tiuit (2) a com- position of the ligature, and tliat (3) the dilatation, in place of disappearing, often goes on increasing above the obliterated point, while it disappears below that point—argues that the cause of phle- bectasis is a retrograde movement of the venous blood. Although in the vast majority of cases one or other of the causes above mentioned will be found in operation, still it is unquestionable that some cases do occur in which npne of them is appreciable. The occurrence of the affection in pregnant females at a period of gestation too early to warrant its reference to the mechanical action of the uterus, its limited development in other cases on a limb, or its occurrence in one limb only, will not justify the ascribing all to the dependent position in which the limb has been kept, while the occasional seat of the affection in the unobstructed veins of the head and neck, where the blood-flow corres- ponds with the direction of gravity, are all as yet unexplained. Again, though the effect of the obliteration of a venous trunk in giving rise to varix, is in many cases beyond all question; still it is equally true that the opposite condition, that of contraction and obliteration of the peripheral branches, may also follow. The enfeebled muscular and nervous energj-, as well as the slower circulation in old people, is more probably the true cause of their proclivity to phlebectasis than any thinning or absolute weakness in the walls of the veins. Usual seat of VarLv.—Although much ninre common in the lower than in the upper half of the body, varix may arise in any part of the venous system. Rokitansky mentiuns its occur- rence in the pia mater of drunkards, and refers to its occasional appearance in the vessels of the choroid plexus. The scalp, face, eye, nose, temple, neck, arm, and thoracic parietes have all been seen thus affected, and the disease in such cases is usually easily enough traceable to causes which are evi- dent, but the vessels on the abdominal walls, those of the spermatic cord, of the rectum, of the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, as welUs those around the vesicular serainales, tliose under the mucous membrane of the bladder, in the va- gina, and on the labia majorca, those lying between the broad ligaments of the uterus, and more rarely those distributed on the stomach, intestines, and oesophagus, have each and all been observed in a varicose condition. The intercostal and lumbar veins have been found similiirly enlarged in cases in which the vena cava superior has been obliter- ated, and the veins of the urethra are said, at times, to assume a similar condition. The veins around diseased joints and rapidly-growing tumors are also subject to dilatation. It is, however, m the lower extremities par crceUenco that phlebec- tasis presents itself, but not, as is genmlly sup- posed, by preference either in the superficial vessels, or in the internal saphena in particular. \ eriiem has on the contrary shown that the saphena is not uncommonly atrophied when tlie deeper vessels are varicose, and that-so far from the s»P«hcial vessels being more frequently enlarged tlian ine deep - the disease in general begins in e latter and extends to the former, and that ^t"e inter-muscular twigs are freqaently ""I He has also shown that the ■•>tt«';""'\"'''-Uj,fici i lined to tlie deep vessels, but that the- su^tihcui