lated himself with pus, discharged from scrofuldu- Borcs, as well ns with tlie serum, collected undes the cuticle of a strumous patient after the applicar tion of a blister; but remained perfectly free from every scrofulous ailment. (See Did. des Sciences Med. t. .50, p. 294.) Our countryman, Mr. Good- lad, inoculated himself several times with the dis- charge from scrofulous sores and abscesses, and the result was, that the disease could not be thus transmitted. (On Diseases of the Absorbent Si/s- tein, p. 113.) [Notwithstanding the apparent conclusive na- ture of these experiments, we cannot with our pre- sent knowledge accept the conclusion that scrofulous matter cannot be successfully inoculated. We are indebted to Dr. Villemin, on the contrary, for es- tablishing, as regards rabbits and guinea-pigs, thnt scrofula can be transferred by inoculation. (Gat. Hehdom., Dec. 1865 and Nov. 1866.) Dr. Ville- min's experiments have been repeated and verified by Henird and Cornil, by Dr. Genaudet and by Dr. Lehert. Op. cit. Jan., "!867.) Mr. Simon, also, in the Pathological Society's last number, adduces proofs of the same facts. Dr. Marcet, in a very in- teresting paper published in the Trans, of the Mtd. Chir. Society, for 1867, vol. 1., relates several cases in detail, in which he succeeded in inoculating guinea-pigs with the sputa of phthisical patients. The object of his paper was to show, not onlj' that inoculation can Be effected, but that it may be used with advantage as a means of diagnosis in doubtful cases of phthisis.] The parts most frequently affected by scrofula, next to the lymphatic and mesenteric glands, and perhaps the skin, nre the spongy heads of the bones, the joints, and the eyes. The three species of porrigo, named favosa, larvalis, and furfurans, together with eczema, irapetiginodes and rubrum, in their chronic forms, have been frequently consi- dered as strumous diseases. One variety of lupus, or noli mi tangere, is decidedly a scrofulous affec- tion : I mean that which commences with small, red, button-like prominences, which usually remain indolent for some time, and then form eroding ulcers, with pale, shining, spongy granulations, and encrusted margins. Chronic enlargement of the tonsils is another scrofulous disease; and so is one example of the well-known ulceration of the pituitary membrane called ozcsna. The form, which the disease assumes in the bones, and serous niembranes, is particularly described in the article Joints. The disorder of the spine, attended with a paralytic affection of the lower extremities, is frequently of scrofulous origin. (See Vertebrae.) Spina bifida is a congenital disease, most fre- q^uently seen in children whose parents are scrofu- lous. {Thoinsrm's Lectures, p. 133.) The chronic abscess, originating in caries of the vertebras, which descends to the inguinal region, guided by the psoas muscle, is generally regarded as a strumous disease; and when its contents are found to con- tain flakes of a curd-like matter, a substance pecu- liar to scrofulous abscesses, no one can doubt, that the complaint is connected with this constitutional affection. (See Lumdar Absces.s.) I may here take the opportunity of remarking, that scrofula always produces in the system a predisposition to the formation of chronic abscesses, a kind of suppurative diathesis, as it has been called by Andral; and this, not only in the absorbent glands, and in the cellular tissue of the loins, but in this latter texture generally. The chronic enlargement of the thyroid gland is sometimes considered as scrofulous; but, though patients with this affliction, very often have, at the same time, other complaints, which are unequivocally strumous, though the enlargement of the thy. roid gland most frequently commences at an early period of life, like scrofulous diseases, and, though, like them, it is sometimes benefited by the carbonate of soda, burnt sponge, and iodine, the opinion of its being scrofulons, I think, is rather on the decline. (See Bronchocele.) Scro- fula also frequently makes its appearance in the form of imperfect suppurations, in various parts of the body; the contents of such abscesses being a curd-like matter, and the skin covering them having an unhealthy red appearance, and a thick- ened doughy feel. The mesenteric glands are often found universally diseased, and enlarged in scrofulous subjects; and, as all nutriment has to pass through these parts, before it can arrive in the circulation, we cannot be surprised at the many ill effects which must be produced on the sys- tem when such glands are thus diseased. Scro- fula frequently makes its attack on the testicle. (See Testicle, Diseases of.) The female brenst is also subject to scrofulous tumors and abscesses. According to Sir A. Cooper, scrofulous persons frequently have follicles on different parts of the body,incrusted with inspissated matter. Heagrees with most other writers in considering the absor- bent glands and joints as the parts most frequently attacked, especially the glands of the neck and mesentery. Various other parts of the body he enumerates as liable to it—the lungs, the brain, the eyes ; but the heart, he believes, is never affected. The secreting glands, he also savs, are rarely the seat of scrofula, at least, the liver and kidneys; for the breast and testicle are exceptions. However, if we take into the account tubercles and tuberculous deposits, as proofs of scrofuhms disease, scrofula is common in or upon most of the viscera; yet, as puberty approaches, the disposi- tion to most of the forms of scrofula, except those of pulmonary tubercles in the lungs, or intestines, and of lumber abscess, diminishes. ' Dr. Thomson believes, that more or less local inflammation occurs in every form and sta^e of scrofulous diseases. He observes, that the swel- lings are very often from the first attended with a sensible increase of heat and redness; and that the pain, though seldom acute, is always present in a greater or less degree. Pressure on scrofulous swellings never fails to create pain ; and the tem- perature of the skin covering them, is usually two or three degrees higher than that of the contigu- ous parts. (Lectures, cjc. p. 131.) Scrofulous inflammation is marked by a soft swelling of the affected part, which is frequently one of the lymphatic glands. The covering, or coat of the gland, becomes slightly thickened, and its substance more porous and doughy, The swelling increases, and the doughy feel changes by degrees into that of elasticit}', or fluctuation, and a firm, circumscribed, hardened margin, can be felt round the base of the tumor. The skin is slightly red. If, at this time, an incision or puncture bo made, either no matter, or very little, is evacuated* the lips of the wound inflame and open, displaying a sloughy-looking substance within; and, betwixt