PARACENTESIS. 431 called pannus tenuis) we find (microscopically ) a great increase of the thickness of the layer of epitli- elial cells of the cornea, with blood-vessels and fusiform cells upon and beneath the anterior elastic lamina, v/hich itself may appear intact. In higher degrees, portions of the anterior elastic lamina dis- appear, and connective tissue and blood-vessels are mixed up with tiie thick irregiUar layer of epith- elium. The bulk of the cornea often remains transparent, though its surface may be covered with opaque tissue and blood-vessels. The opacity, if such exists in the cornea, rarely occupies its entire thickness, and is situated be- neath the anterior elastic lamina. It consists at first of capillaries, followed by numerous closely packed fusiform cells, with very little inter-cellular substance. They seem to be the result of division of the nuclei within the cells of the cornea, and subsequently of the cells themselves. The rapid increase of these cells leads to a disappearance of the inter-cellular substance. The more numerous these cells are, the greater is the opacity. The cells of the cornea are larger and more numerous close to the opaque part. Ulcerations or purulent infiltrations of the cornea, followed by perforation, or dense opaci- ties, frequently occur during acute attacks of granular ophthalmia. The surface of the cornea in severe cases appears covered with a grey or red and opaque vascular, somewhat granular, substance, which is continuous with the swollen ocular conjunctiva, and which is termed pannus grassus ; it may continue for years before it changes into loose opaque connective tissue. The treatment of pannus is included under the treatment of granulations. (See Conjunctiva.) C. Bader. PARACENTESIS. (From Trapwcevrew, to per- forate.) The operation of tapping, or making an opening into the abdomen, thorax, or bladder, for the purpose of discharging the fluid confined in these parts in cases of ascites, empyema, hydro- thorax, or retention of urine. A similar operation is often practised for the relief of hydrocele and ovarian dropsy. Effused blood may also require an opening to be made into the chest; and so may confined air in the instance of emphysema. Tapping, or Paracentesis Abdominis. When the swelling extends equally over the whole abdomen, the fluid is usually diffused among all the viscera, and is only circumscribed by the boundaries of the peritoneum (ascites). The water is occasionally included in different cysts, which are generally formed in one of the ovaries (ovarian dropsy), and in this case the tumor which is produced is not so uniform, and the fluctuation not so distinct, as in peritoneal dropsy, at least, while the disease has not made great progress. The difference also in the consistence of the fluid in ovarian dropsy may render the fluctuation more or less difficult of detection. When tho water is contained in different cysts, it is frequently thick and gelatinous ; but when it is uniformly diff'used all over the cavity of tho peritoneum, as in ascites, it is generally thin and even quite limpid. Sometimes a consider- able number of hydatids are found floating in the fluid. With regard to tlie symptoms of com- mon ascites, the disease is attpnded with great uneasiness, from all kinds of pressure on the abdomen ; a gradual swelling of this part of the body, not inclining more to one side than the other ; a fluctuation perceptible when the surgeon lays his hand on one side of the tumor, and gently taps on the opposite side of it-; considerable difficulty of breathing, caused by the collection of fluid interrupting the action of the diaphragm, and obliging the patient to lie with his chest very much raised ; constant thirst, &c. The abdomen usually begins to swell very gradually ; the swelling is uni- forjn, beginning from the pubes and by degrees ex- tending as high as the ensiform cartilage. As the fluid accumulates in greater quantities, the parietes of the abdomen yield very much in the direction forwards, and also downwards, so that, in some instances, the swelling descends considerably be- yond the 08 pubis. The fluid of ascites consists of serum, exhibiting various shades of colour from a light citrine to a deep brown. Occasionally the serum is mixed with pus, and not unfrequently it contains flocculi of coagulating lymph ; a circum- stance denoting that there has been inflammation of the peritoneum. (See Dariuall in Cyclop, of Pract. Med. art. Ascites.) One common cause of ascites is disease of the liver, which has the effect of impeding the circula- tion of the blood in the vessels of most of the other abdominal viscera. Sir Astley Cooper enumerates, as other causes, an enlargement of the spleen, which presses upon and irritates the peritoneum, so as to determine an increased flow of blood to it, and an effusion of serum ; great debility of the system, induced by fevers or other debilitating causes ; diseases of the heart and lungs, in which cases the ascites is generally combined with hydrothorax. To distinguish pregnancy from dropsy, nothing more is usually required than an accurate know- ledge of the signs of the former, but sometimes ascites is complicated with pregnancy. In "this case, as Scarpa observes, the regular form and body of the uterus are not evident to the touch, princi- pally from the enormous distention and prominence of the hypochondria. The urine is scanty and late- ritious ; the thirst is constant ; the abdomen upon percussion presents a fluctuation, obscure in the hypogastric and iliac regions, but distinct in the hypochondria. The previous history of the case, with a proper examination of the neck of the uterus, will enable the practitioner to form a correct judgment. (See Darivall, Op. cit.) Whatever may be the efficacy of bleeding, di- gitalis, mercury, diuretics, and calomel, elaterium, squills,iodine, iodide of potassium, and othermedi- cines, in ascites, they are rarely of any service in local and encysted (ovarian) dropsies. When such swellings continue to enlarge, notwithstanding the adoption of a few measures which will presently be suggested, and produce much oppression and func- tional disturbance, perhaps the sooner the fluid is evacuated the better. It is also well-known that all efforts to produce a radical cure, even of dropsies which are not encysted, too frequently fail. Dr. Fothergill believed that physicians would meet with much more success in the treatment of ascites if they were to recommend paracentesis to be done sooner than thoy generally do. On tlio commencement of an ascites, tliis celobrntod prac- titioner advises the trial of diuretics and other evacuants. He then adds, that " if, by a reason- able perseverance in this course, no considerable