rotic, heal readily with a semi-transparent cicatrix. The lids of the eye thus wounded should be kept closed, wet lint being kept tied over them until the wound has healed and all undue vascularity disappeared. The fellow eye, if there be no sym- pathetic irritation, may be used for work. Rupture of the sclerotic, e.g. after blows, occurs more frequently near the upper or inner margin of the cornea. The eyeball being least protected at the outer and lower border of the orbit, is by the blow driven against the opposite prominent part. The rupture is often complicated with bleeding into the anterior chamber, with separation of part or of the entire iris from its insertion, with dislo- cation of the lens, the latter escaping through the wound. Portions of iris, choroid, " vitreous,'' or retina may project from tlie wound. All the con- tents of the sclerotic may escape, the latter becom- ing filled with blood. The prognosis depends upon the amount of in- jury inflicted upon the deeper parts of the eye. Treatment.—After having cleaned the wound from extraneous substance, portions of vitreous, &c., lint dipped in fresh water is applied over the closed lids of the injured eye, upon this, some cotton wool is placed and the whole secured by a band- age. The bandage is removed three times daily. Rest of the injured eye and instillations of atropia into the fellow eye if any sympathetic irritation should exist, are prescribed. The latter, in the absence of all irritation, may be used for work. (See Injuries of Choroid, Retina, 4'<^.)] C. Bader. SCRO'FULA.orSCROPHULA. (fromscra/«, a sow.) So named, as is commonly suppoied, either on account of its often giving a thick appear- ance to the throat and neck, a character of the animal here mentioned, or, because swine were fancied to be subject to the disease ; though the coriectness of this last etj'mology is rendered questionable by the remarks of Dr. Henning ; and the statement that pigs are really liable to scrofula he also pronounces to be erroneous. (See Critical Inquiry into tlie Pathology of Scrofula, (Sfc. pp. 1, 9.) Here, however, it is to be recollected, that this author does not admit tuberculous deposits to be any proof of scrofula ; a point on which the highest modern authorities would be against him. Now, according to Dupuy, all the domestic animals of France, not excepting the dog, as well as those imported from warmer countries, are subject to tuberculous deposits. {De I'Affection Ttibercu- lease, S[c.) ■ Celsus clearly describes the disease, as it affects the absorbent glands, under the name of struma. The other term applied to it, the King's Evil, commemorates the imaginary virtues of the royal touch, to which from the time of Edward the Con- fessor, till the reign of Queen Anne, multitudes of persons afflicted with scrofula were subjected. A similar custom prevailed in France ; and miracu- lous powers for the cure of scrofula were likewise claimed for different Romish saints ; for the heads of certain noble families; for the seventh son; and for many consecrated springs. One of the most frequent effects of the disease is a chronic swelling of the absorbent glands, in vari- ous parts of the body, which glands generally tend more or less slowl}' to suppuration. Our notions of scrofula, however, would be very imperfect, were we to define the disorder to bo a morbid state of the FULA. 551 lymphatic glandular system. The first appearances, indeed, frequently consist of spots on different parts of the body, and of eruptions and ulcerations behind the ears. The system of absorbent glands, it is true, seldom or never fails to become affected in the progress of the disease ; yet scrofula fre- quently appears, for the first time, in parts which are not of a glandular nature. There are, per- haps, but few, if any, of the textures of the human body, or of the organs, which these textures form, that are not lia'ole to attacks of scrofula, and to scrofula as an original idiopathic affection. (See Thomson on Inflammation, p. 134.) These senti- ments, accurate as I believe them to be, are en- tirely at variance with those of Alibert and other modems, who describe the disease as having its commencement in the conglobate glands, especi- ally those of the neck (^Nosol. Naturelle, t. i. p. 441. 4to. Paris, 1817); and they are equally opposite to the doctrine of Dr. Henning, who argues, that the superficial absorbent glands alone are susceptible of the original action of the cause of this disease, and that if other parts become affected by it, such affection is consequential. {On the Pathology of Scrofula, chap, vi.) The ab8orl)ent glands are far from being the only parts liable to the original attack of scrofula. Sometimes, as I have stated, the disease begins in the cutaneous texture ; very often in the eyes, nostrils, or lips. In other cases, we find it fixing upon organs more deeply situated, as the bones and joints ; or obstructing the organs for convey» ance of the chyle; or giving rise in the lungs, the spleen, the kidneys, the peritoneum, and other p;irts, to those tubercular diseases, which, in this climate, are one of the greatest causes of morta- lity. The most frequent seats of scrofulous tu- bercles in adults are, first, the lungs, and then the small intestines ; but, in children, the bronchial glands, the mesenteric glands, the spleen, the kid- neys, and the intestines, in the order here enume-. rated. When, therefore, tubercular phthisis is regarded as a scrofulous disease, it makes an im-. portant difference in the comparative estimate of the frequency of scrofula in children and grown up persons. The most certain evidence of the ex- istence of scrofula seems to Dr. Cumin to be afforded by the production of a soft, brittle, unor- ganised matter, resembling curd, or new cheese ■ which is found mixed with the contents of scro- fulous abscesses, or deposited in rounded masses- of different degrees of firmness, varying in bulk from the size of a millet seed to that of a hen's egg. Sometimes it is contained within the natural cavities and canals of the body, sometimes it is enclosed in cysts, and occasionally it is diffused as if by infiltration, through the natural texture' of a part. To the rounded masses of this substance the name of tubercles has been assigned, and the substance itself is called tuberculous, or tubercular matter. " We venture to assert, that the presence of tuberculous matter is a satisfactory proof of the existence of scrofula; but, we do not by any means maintain, that scrofula cannot exist without the de- position of this substance. The researches of patho- logical anatomy have shown,that scarcely any living' texture of the h uman body is tiltogether exempted from tuberculous deposits. This morbid production' has been observed on the free unbroken surfaces of mucous membranes, within mucous follicles and' forming the contents of lymphatic vessels, the