640 SUPPURATION more vascular than usual; in short, all the symp- toms occur, by which the state of inflammation is characterised." {On Inflammation, pp. 313, 314.) In another place Dr. Thomson admits, that tlie matter, which is formed in chronic suppurations, does not always accurately resemble that which is formed in acute abscesses; yet he contends, that it is so analogous both in its physical and chemical characters, as well as in the circumstances m which it is produced, that he can see no reason why ,t should not be called pus, or a punform fluid. (P. 315) Sir A. Cooper also inculcates the common doctrine, that the formation of matter is preceded by inflammation, which, he says, in healthy per- sons is active, while, in the debilitated and scrotu- lous, it is often very slight, and the pus produced generally less perfect. Sometimes there is even such a change of action, that the products entirely differ, being in scrofulous abscesses serous and curdli'ke, or even chalky. {Lectures, Sfc. vol. i. p. 1-20 ) The doctrine of Dupuytren likewise was, that abscesses never constitute primary diseases, but are constantly the effect, or termination, of previous inflammation of greater or less intensity, depth, and extent in the living textures, (bee Diet, 'de Med. et de Chir. t. i. p. 3.) . , , [Genesis of Pus. Since the publication of the preceding edition of this Dictionary in 1838, has arisen that school of pathology which is founded on microscopic investigation, and which has been enabled by this instrument to penetrate further into the secrets of nature than was thought pos- sible by the illustrious men whose opinions have been quoted above. The cell theory, with its applications and modifications by the Goodsirs, Hughes Bennett, Lebert, Virchow, and Beale, has come into existence ; and the arteries, instead of beinc considered the very seat of all living opera- tions" as in Hunter's time, are now ranked merely as purveyors and distributors of blood ; whilst the real tissues, the intervascular or extravascular, as they would have been called, are seen to be the real seats of suppuration, as of other pathological changes. „ , ^ r c Tlie problem is, to account for the production ot this fluid called pus, apparently a stranger and alien to the healthy body, and to explain the ori- gin of the liquid, and of the globules which the most unfit and imperfect microscopes detected in it. We have seen Gendrin's explanation, based on a conversion of red blood into pus globules, which he believed he witnessed in the web of the frog s foot It may suffice here to say, that observations on the conversion of red blood globules into pus have been revived. Professor Schafi^hausen, of Bonn, at the meeting of German naturalis s and physicians in 1867, declared that he had distinctly traced the formation of pus out of b ood globules He had seen the transition from the red blood into the pus corpuscle in carbuncles, lu pustules oi the skin, and in fresh hemorrhage from the kid- neys. The change was one of fatty degeneration. Professor Schaffhausen's observations require to be repeated and confirmed {Med. Times and Oaz. lliC7, vol. ii. p. 651), for it is not now believed that red globules are capable of such conversion. They are found in instances innumerable under conditions in which their conversion into pus bj- mere fatty degeneration would have been easy if it were possible. The process of pus formation, on the contrary, is believed to be one, not of de- generation or decay, but of active growth ; and pus to bo one of a set of products whose vitality is far too great. The modern doctrine of pyo- genecis makes it a point of tissue development, and every advance of histogenetic doctrine includes a deeper and deeper view of the formation and ana- logies of pus. In accordance with the views promulgated by Schwann and Schleiden, all living organised tissues are composed originally of cells, living inde- pendent units, and the contributions and modifi- cations which they undergo. A cell is said to originate in a structureless medium, as blastema, in the form of a nucleus, or small solid particle, which grows by accretion, forms around it a cell mem- brane, and acquires contents in the interval bet»veen the membrane and nucleus. Of cells, some in the animal body continue isolated; some coalesce (as epithelium); some are modified into tubes and fibres. Amongst those which continue isolated, are reckoned lymph cells, bluod corpuscles, mucus and pus corpuscles. " Pus corpuscles are thus," says Schwann, "peculiar cells which are formed in the serum of pus—i. e. in cyto-blastema, exuded dur- ing inflammation, in increased quantity, and of anomalous composition :—precisely in the same manner that mucus corpuscles originate in mucus, and, indeed, as all cells form in this cyto-blastemn, in accordance with the fundamental law laid down." {Microscopical Researches into the Structure of Animals and Plants. Trans, from the German of D. T. Schwann, Lond. Sydenham Soc, 1847.) The doctrine of the origin of pus (as of other niorbid cells) in a cyto-blastema, has been de- veloped with singular ability by Dr. John Hughes Bennett, of Edinburgh, in his various works on microscopical pathology, beginning with his Essay Onlnflammation as aProcess of Abnormal Nutrition, 1844, and going on to his Lectures On Molecular Pathology {Lancet, passim, 1863). Inflammation, Siiys Dr. Bennett, is a process of abnormal nutrition (see article Inflammation) in which a liquor sanguinis of abnormal quantity and quality is ex- uded into the inflamed tissues. The exudation, whether it continue liquid, or, as more frequently happens, solidifies after the manner of coagulable lymph, constitutes a blastema. According to this author's " matured molecular theory of organija- tion," " the ultimate parts of the organisation are not cells nor nuclei, but minute molecules, from which these are formed. They possess indepen- dent physical and vital qualities, which enable them to unite and arrange themselves so as to produce higher forms. Amongst these products of the union of molecules are nuclei, cells, fibres, and membranes," &c. &c. {Lancet, 1863, vol. i. p. 56.) In accordance with this doctrine. Dr. Bennett shows a picture of red hepatization, in which the vessels of an inflamed lung are filled with molecular exudation—coagulable lymph, in- flammation, exudation, &c. A second figure shows the molecules coalescing to form cells; a third, shows the whole exudation converted into pus cgI1s> Nothing can be stronger, however, than the op- position which Rudolph Virchow {Cellular Paiho- lo,w by Chance, Lond., 1860, p. 27) gives to the molecular theorv, or to anything which conceives that living elements can bo produced out ot parts destitute of shape, as formative fluids blastema, cyto-blastema, and the like. Ho condemns this-