270 LUMBAR ABSCESS. When a certain quantify of matter has again accumulated and presents itself in the groin, or elsewhere, which may be in about a fortnight after the first puncture, the abscess is to be punctured again, in the same manner as before, and the wound healed in the same way. The quantity of matter will now be found much less than what was at first discharged. Thus the abscess is to be repeatedly punctured at intervals, and the woimds as regularly healed by the first intention, by which method, irritation and inflammation of the cyst will not be induced, the cavity of the matter will never be allowed to become distended, and it will be rendered smaller and smaller, till the cure is complete. In a few instances, the surgeon may, perhaps, be unable to persevere in healing the repeated punctures which it may be necessary to make ; but, after succeeding once or twice, the cyst will probably have had sufficient opportunity to con- tract so much, that its surface will not now be of alarming extent. It is also a fact, that the cyst loses its irritability, becomes more indolent, and less apt to inflame, after the contents have been once or twice evacuated in the above way; and its disposition to absorb becomes also stronger. [In the present day valvular trocars are used to evacuate the matter, which effectually prevent the entrance of air.] The knowledge of the fact, that the cysts of all abscesses are absorbing surfaces, should lead us not to neglect other means, wliich Mr. Abernethy suggested as likely to promote the dispersion of the abscess, by quickening the action of the ab- sorbents. Blisters kept open with savine cerate, issues, electricity, occasional vomits of the sulphate of zinc, are the means most conducive to this object. [The injection of tincture of iodine, diluted with two or more parts of water, has a powerful effect in lessening the secretion of the matter.] When the vertebrre are diseased, issues will often prove serviceable, more especially before the ab- scess has been opened, or when the discharge is not very copious. In the latter complication, the case is always dangerous. If an opening be made in the abscess, the cyst is at first more likely to be irritated than when the bones are not diseased, and the affection of the spine is not rendered more likely to tm- dergo any improvement, in consequence of the mere formation of an outward communication, The same maybe said of necrosis; in which case but little benefit arises from the presence of unhealed fistulse and sores, which lead down to the disease. Mr. Crowther succeeded in dispersing some large lumbar abscesses [when not connected with diseased bone] without opening them. Large blisters applied to the integuments covering the swelling, and kept open with the savine cerate, effected the cure. When this gentleman punc- tured such collections of matter, he used a small trochar, which he introduced at the same place as often as necessary. He observes, that the aperture so made does not ulcerate, and allows no matter to escape after being dressed. It must be remem- bered that, in the use of the trochar, when the tumour is not very prominent, on account of the quantity of matter being small, suddenly plunging a trocar into the swelling might even endanger parts the wounding of which might lead to fatal consequences. Some surgeons open lumbar abicessei with a seton. The matter being made to form as pro- minent a swelling as possible, by pressing the ab- domen, and putting the patient in a position, which will make the contents of the abscess gra- vitate towards the part where the seton is to be introduced, a transverse cut is first made in the integuments down to the fascia. A flat trocaj- is next to be introduced within the incision, which should only be just large enough to allow the in- strument to pass freely under the skin, for at least three-quarters of an inch; when the hand is to be raised, and the trocar pushed obliquely and gently upwards, till the canula is within the lower part of the sac. The trocar must now be with- drawn, and the matter allowed to flow out gently, stopping it every now and then for some minutes. The assistant must now withdraw his hand, to take away the pressure, and place the thumb of his left hand upon the opening of the canula, holding it between his fore and middle fingers. It must then be pushed upward, nearly to the top qf the tumour, where its end may be distinctly felt with the fore-finger of the right hand. As soon as it can be plainly felt, it must be held steadily in the same position, and the trocar is to be intro- duced into it again, and pushed through the skin, at the place where it is felt, and the canula along with it. The trocar being next withdrawn, a probe, witii a skein of fine soft silk, dipped in oil, must be passed through the canula, which being now taken away, leaves the seton in its place. A pledget of mild ointment is then to be applied over the two openings, the more completely to exclude the air. A fresh piece of the silk is to be drawn into the abscess, and that which was in before cut off, as often as necessary. (See Laila's Surgery, vol. iii. p. 307.) Deckers, who wrote in 1696, discharged a large abscess in a gradual manner, with a trocar, the canula of which was not withdrawn, but stopped up with a cork, and the matter let out at intervals. B. Bell also advises the canuk not to be taken out. . . I cannot quit this subject without mentionmg a remarkable case of lumbar abscess, which I saw, many years ago, in Christ's Hospital, under the care of the late Mr. Ramsden. The tumour ex- tended from the ilium and sacrum below, as high up as the ribs. The diameter of the swelling from behind, forward, might be about six or eight inches. It was attended with so strong a pulsation, corre- sponding with that of the arteries, that several eminent surgeons in this city considered the case to be an aneurism of the aorta. After some weeks, as the tumour increased in size, the throbbing ol the whole swelling gradually became fainter and fainter, and at length, could not be felt at all. Tiie tumour was nearly on the point of bursting. Mr Ramsden suspected that it was an abscess, and determined to make a small puncture The experiment verified the accuracy opinion; a large quantity of pus at intervals; but as the boy's health declmed, ho went to his friends at Newbury, and I did not afterwards hear the event. I have never seen any in It. of his evacuated popliteal aneurism, whose pulsations could he more plainly seen and strongly felt, than those of the scess wo have just been describing. In an example of iliac abscess, which occurred the Richmond Hospital, Dublin, ulceration took