236 LITHOTOMY quickly closed after division. From those causes troublesome venous haamorrhage may come on in old patients submitted to the operation. Sir B. Brodie lost a patient within a few hours from this cause, having been foiled in all his efforts to restrain the bleeding. It may take place in adults, or even in children, under peculiar circumstances. M. Robert witnessed two examples at the Hotel Dieu of Paris. In one case, that of a young man, the venous plexus continued to pour forth blood until death ensued. No artery had been wounded. The second case was that of a child addicted to masturbation. The enlarged veins furnished a copious bleeding, which became suddenly fatal after an act of that vice. These are altogether exceptional cases ; for we may lay it down as a rule that the danger of venous hsemorrhage is in direct proportion to the age of the patient. Secondary hsemorrhage sometimes occurs after lithotomy, and probably, as Sir B. Brodie sus- pects, from the separation of a slough. In one such case Mr. Earle stopped the bleeding by ni- troducing into the bladder through the wound a tent of lint enclosing an elastic gum catheter.] Causes of Death after Lithotomy. [The accidents which have been now described if we except bleeding—are seldom attended by any serious consequences. There are others, how ever, sometimes primary, more often secondary which frequently terminate in a fatal manner, and may, therefore, be described under the head of " Causes of Death." When we reflect on the immense number of cases in which lithotomy has been performed in private practice, and on the numerous hospital records which must exist relative to long series of cases, it seems strange that there should be any difficulty in ascertaining the precise cause of death after this operation. Yet such is not the case; accurate records are rare. The writer has, how- ever, collected ninety cases (Dupuytren 19,'Bryant 40, Mr. Teale 13, Dr. Humphry 7, Dr. Barnard 6, Provincial Hospitals 5), and arranged them ni tabular form :—■ No. of Cases recorded Dupuytren 19 Bryant . 40 Teale . .13 Humphry. 7 Harnard . 6 Provincial 1 g Hospitals J 90 Cause of Death Infiltration of urine into cellular tissue of pelvis. Inflammation of cellu- lar tissue of pelvis . . Pelvic abscess .... Erysipelas From accident. . . . Haemorrhage . . . . Pyamia Shock Disease of Kidneys . . Peritonitis Cystitis Laceration of Bladder or Prostate Great size of Calculus . Obstacle in Perineum . Disease of Prostate . . Sacculated Bladder . . Cancer of Bladder . . Bronchitis Uncertain Sudden Coma . . . . No. of Cases Fatal 22 1 1 3 11 10 8 8 4 4 4 2 2 1 2 1 2 3 1 90 Previous to the discovery of chloroform, nervous accidents, the shock, &c.,were formidable, and not unfrequently terminated in death. Even now the effect of the operation on the nervous system is not invariably avoided. An example of this kind occurred some years ago in the practice of Mr. Lawrence, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Al- though chloroform had been duly administered, the nervous and irritable state excited by the operation continued, and the patient sunk on the third day from the mere shock. The very fear of the operation has been fatal. {Gazelle Mid. da Paris, Dec. 7, 1850.) Prolonged ope- rations are always dangerous; and when the obstacles which have caused the delay are great, the patient is sometimes removed from the oper- ation table in a state of prostration from which he never rallies. Such a condition demands instant and unremitting attention. The patient should be carried to bed at once in the horizontal position ; he should then be covered with a warm blanket, and bottles of hot water be applied to his feet ; while a free access of air to the face is provided for. So soon as he can swallow, small quantities of hot brandy and water, ammonia, &c., are to be given, until reaction sets in. Ha;morrhage, whether primary or secondar}', has been noticed already, under the head of "Accidents." It seems only necessary to add here that the bleeding which terminates fatally is most commonly the secondary form. Mr. Cooper states that " the majority of patients who die after lithotomy perish of peritoneal in- flammation." This is an error. The most frequent cause of death is unquestionably inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis caused by infiltra- tion of urine. This inflammation, it is true, may extend to the peritoneum, especially whenever the layer of pelvic fascia close to the peritoneimi has been divided ; but peritonitis independently of such extravasation is rare. Infiltration of urine may take place under two different circumstances, which are worthy of no- tice, as this in some measure explains the variety of symptoms observed in different cases, and the greater rapidity with which some hasten to their fatal termination. The urine may become infiltrated whenever the internal incision has been carried beyond the limits of the prostate, or when the neck of the bladder and the prostate have been injured during the efforts made to extract a large cal- culus. In both these cases the fibrous capsule of the prostate is divided, the urine becomes infil- trated into the subjacent cellular tissue, inflamma- tion sets in, and excites, according to its seat or extent either peritonitis or sloughing of the soft parts within the pelvis. Infiltration, again, may arise from anything which impedes the free dis- charce of urine through the external wound. Thus the external incisions may have been too small or do not correspond with the internal or the sides of the wound have been lacerated dur- ing the extraction of a large calculus. Here the infiltration does not take place into the sub-pen- toneal cellular tissue; yet its eftccts, though slower than in the former case,are almost equally unlavour- "'^The only certain way of avoiding the danger now spoken of is to follow the rule so justly insisted on by Mr. Liston and many other