face, and so manoeuvres it that the plates of glass throw their bright reflection into the eye to be examined; upon which, looking through the in- strument, he will see the retiun shine with a red glow, ir he be unable tn accommodate his eye lor the vision of iiiie details, he must turn one of the discs with the forefinger of the hand that holds the instrument, until he has found the ne- cessary concave lens. If the illuminalion of the retina should disappear, the observer looks for the bright reflection from the glass plates upon the face of the patient, and guides this reflection back again into the eye. The advantages of this Ophthalmoscope are, that it allows us to observe exiiotly the position of the retinal image of the flame, and the changes of this image in accommodation for nearer or farther distance; and also that a healthy eye can bear its illumination for hours without becoming inflamed or blinded. The disadvantages are, comparatively feeble illumination of the fundus oculi, and dis- turbing reflection from the cornea, which last objection is diminished as much as possible by polarization of the light by means of four plates of glass. The instrument is chiefly useful, however, in physiological observations and experiments ; in surgical examinations, where a larger field of visii.n and good definition with less magnifying power are mostly required, the perforated mirror with a convex lens is found to deserve the preference. The Ophtlialmoscope of Follin is essentially the instrument of Helraholtz, rendered stationary, and with the addition of a convex lens, which, placed near the lamp, throws divergent light upon the reflectinn plates. The instrument consists of the following parts: the apparatus of Helmholtz with its reflecting glass plates, is connected to a wooden pillar by means of a hinge, which permits of revolution about its vertical axis. The concave lenses neces- sary as ocular glasses are secured in a frame, movable on its horizontal axis. The stand bears also a slender arm, on the end of which the light together with its chimney glass are fastened. This arm carries also a bi-convex lens, placed between the light and the instrument, which slides back- wards and forwards. The addition of a convex lens as an illuminat- ing glass is unquestionably an improvement on Helmholtz's instrument, but is not a contrivance of Follin's, Helmholtz having first suggested it him- self The setting up of the lens in the vicinity of the flame is of little advantage, since in practice, the mirror being made dependent upon the line of direction of the rays, its mobility is hindered, and moreover, the variations of the focus of the rays that are necessary for the determination of dif ferent depths in the eye are rendered impossible. Helmltoltz's " Simplest Ophthalmoscope."—The surgeon and the patient seat themselves in OPHTHALMOSCOPE, 377 darkened chamber, with a table so placed as to in- terpose a corner between them, and with their faces about a foot asunder. If the right eye is to be examined, the table must be to the left of the observer, who places upon it a lighted candle at the level of the eyes, near to himself, and inter- poses a screen between his eye and the flame. The patient is then directed to look through the clearest part of the flame at some imaginary point in the distance of the room and behind the observer, who hnuself looks in a direction close to the edee of the screen, and sees the observed eye illuminated, and the more strongly, the nearer his line of bIsIu an- proiiches to the margin of the flame. In blue and myopic eyes the illumination is stronger than in brown and normal eyes, but in these it is recog- nisable. As soon as the surgeon has found the beat position of his eye for the observation, he interposes a convex lens of J" or 2" focal length and half an inch diameter, and holds it close before the patient's eye. He then sees the iris and pupil slightly marjnitied, and is guided by the outer parts of the eye to place the lens with- out difficulty before the pupil, so that the red field of the fundus oculi becomes larger and larger until it overspreads the whole surface of the lens. The observer will then usually obtain a clear image of the retinal vessels, as distinct stronoly marked red lines; but, if he should not see them clearly, he must remember that this image is not formed on tlie surface of the lens, but nearer to himself, and that he must therefore accommodate his eye for vision at such a nearer distance as the position of the lens may indicate. When the two eyes are )2" apart, the observer will have the image about 8" or 9" in front of him, and therefore at a convenient distance fornormal vision; but, if he be either near-sighted or presbvopic, he will require the further aid of the same glass that he IS accustomed to use for reading. The experimental instnment employed hij Mr. Laurence consists of a horizontal stem about a foot long, supported by an upright stand. Two small uprights slide in a groove on the upper surface of the stem, and carry, one a convex lens of 2" focal distance, the other a small square of plate glass, both so arranged as to turn upon their ver- tical axes. The light is furnished by an Argand burner surrounded by an opaque chimney with a single small opening, and the place of examina- tion IS otherwise completely darkened. The patient is placed about three feet from the lamp the convex lens about 2" from the cornea, and the glass plate about 4" from the lens. The eye, the lens, the plate glass, and the flame, must all of course be perfectly on the same level, and their centres must be in the same straight line. More recently, Mr. Laurence has modified his instrument in the following way. He illuminates the eye by a lantern having only one opening for the exit of light, and places in this opening a convex lens of such power that the flame is in its principal focus. By this arrangement the rays proceeding from the lantern are rendered parallel They pass through the plate of glass to reach" the eye, and under ordinary circumstances, will retain their parallelism on their backward course. The bi-convex lens is then placed, not between the plate and the eve observed, but be- tween the plate and the spectator, so as to unite the rays into nn actual image after they have undergone reflection, instead of before. The image thus formed may bo magnified by a second lens, and Mr. Laurence unites the two in a tube which thus resembles an astronomical telescope and levelled at the reflecting plate. Mr. Laurence proposes to convert this tube into a terrestrial telescope by the addition of an erecting eye-piece. ITomoccutriu Opldkalmoscopcs.— TlieOphthalmo'. scope of Rucie.-A pillar rising from u round