DISEASE. VENEREAL tinns of them, and be regulated very much by the same principles which are recognised in the treatment of ulcers generally. I cannot join, therefore, in re- stricting my preference either to simple dressings, astringent or stimulating lotions, or to nitrate of silver, or to other caustics. Ur. Colles, who prefers mild bland dressings, observes, with respect to various caustics and stimulating applications to chancres, that he has not seen that !.uch cases were rendered thereby more manageable, or that the patient was secured from those untoward changes which too frequently occur in the chancre itself; before it is finally healed ; nor were such cases less liable to secondary symptoms. (AOr. Colles, On Ven. Dis. p. 77.) With respect to dressings for chancres, Mr. Hunter placed a good deal of confidence in those which contained mercury ; but the same attach- ment to them does not now prevail which existed formerly. The established fact of mercury not being absolutely necessary in any way for the cure of different venereal sores must have had the effect of removing some prejudices even relating to local treatment. As common mercurial oint- ment is always more or less rancid, I have gene- rally found it a bad dressing. In ordinary cases, I believe, the tepid water dressing, with a piece of oil silk over it, or astringent lotions, made with the sulphate of copper or zinc, acetate of lead, alum, &c. answer the best. Some chancres are indolent, and require stimulants, like the hydrargyri nitrico- oxydum blended with ointment, the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis more or less weakened, or the nitrate of silver, in solution or substance. Mr. Hunter, always partial to mercurial dressings, ex- presses his preference to a salve containing calomel, as being more active than common mercurial oint- ment. When chancres were stationary, Mr. Hunter found that they might often be cured by touching them slightly with nitrate of silver. In some of these cases no cicatrisation seems possible, till the contaminated surface, or the new flesh which grows on that surface, has either been destroyed or altered. When sores are situated under the prepuce, where they are concealed by a phymosis, some emollient, or gently astringent lotion, or the black wash, should frequently be in- jected under the foreskin, so as to wash out any matter which might otherwise lodge and cause irritation. Mr. Hunter believed that mercury should be given in every case of chancre, however slight, and even when it has been destroyed by caustic, or other means, on its very first appearance. The remedy, he says, should be continued for some time after the chancre has heated, in order to hinder the venereal disposition from forming. Here we find fven Hunter himself falling into some inconsis- tencies ; for, in other parts of his work, he seems to approve of the principle of giving mercury only when actual and visible disease exists, because it cannot cure the disposition to it even if it exists. Now, as the chancre is cured, no further absorp- tion of the virus from it is possible, and whatever lifposition to the disease can arise from absorption must have already been formed, and, therefore' rannot be prevented ; and though, according to Mr. Hunter's own theory, the virus has been long ago expelled from the system, together with some of the excretions, mercury is recommended with the view of protecting the constitution. IIow- ever, if Mr. Hunter's explanations arc not alto- gether satisfactory on this part of tlie subject, I believe the fault is in his theory ; because, in cases where mercury is deemed advisable, general experience appears to sanction the practice of continuing its use for some time after the chancre is perfectly healed. Yet many exceptions to this rule present themselves ; for, if a chancre is large, and long in healing, its syphilitic character is gene- rally extinct a good while before cicatrisation is completed, and perseverance in mercury under these circumstances would be both an absurd and a dangerous practice. Hence, in a great measure, the cause of the numerous instances of the mercurial disease, as Mr. Mathias has named it, and which, in former days, did far more mischief than syphilis itself. (See An Liquiry into the History and Nature of the Disease produced by Mercury, 3rd ed. 8vo. Lend. 1816.) This part of the subject is noticed by Mr. Hunter, who states that, in very large chancres it may not always be necessary to con- tinue either the external or internal administration of mercury till the sore is healed; for the venereal action is just as soon destroyed in a large chancre as it is in a small one; since every part of the sore is equally affected by the medicine, and, of course, cured with equal expedition. But in regard to cicatrisation, circumstances are different, because a large sore is longer than a small one in becoming covered with skin. Hence, according to Mr. Hunter, a large chancre may be deprived of its venereal action long before it has healed ; while, on the other hand, a small one may heal before the syphilitic affection has been destroyed. In the latter case he represents it as most prudent, both on account of the chancre and constitution, to con- tinue the employment of mercury a little while after the sore is healed. Whenever mercury is employed for the cure of chancre, the patient should first be prepared by one or two purges, quietude for a day or two, and a lowered diet. He should also avoid exposure to damp and cold, put on additional clothing, keep himself at home, and, if he wish to be cured speedily, observe the recumbent position. The following advice, I believe, agrees with what is generally said upon this subject by the highest authorities:—" In general, it will be prudent to continue the use of mercury, not only until all hardness be removed, but even for a few days longer. I think we may lay it down as a general rule, that the course of mercurv even when it has been well conducted, and has agreed well with the patient, should be continued tor not less than one month. I know that some cases have been perfectly cured in three weeks ; but I have too frequently seen relapses follow' these short courses of mercury, when employed for the cure of primary symptoms. I should wish a moderateptyalism to be kept up from the time the mercury comes to act on the system until it be finally discontinued." {Abr. Colles, On Ven. Dis p. 79.) As Mr. Hunter has explained, chancres, both in men and women, often acquire, during the treatment, new dispositions, which are of various kinds; some retarding the cure, and leaving the parts in an indolent thickened state, after the cure is accomplished. In other instances, a new dis- position arises, which utterly prevents the parts