nerves. It should, however, except in certain instances, be reserved for the coup de grace of tlie cure, and it acts bost when the general functions of the bodj- are properly performed, and nothing remains to be elTected by treatment but the resto- ration of power and vigour to the skin. When tiilcen for a time, the limits of which vary in different individuals, arsenic produces a feeling of warmth, a tingling and even an erythema of the skin, the tingling being first perceptible in the lingers and hands, and the erythema first showing Itself in that portion of the mucous membrane of the body which is habitually exposed to the atmosphere, and which is most conveniently placed for becoming a register of the degree of saturation of the system by the remedy, namely, the con- junctiva. Just as we look to the free edge of the gums to note the saturation of the system by mercury, so we look to the conjunctiva as an arsen- ometer for testing the occurrence of saturation of the system by arsenic. A moderate amount of congestion of the conjunctiva teaches us that the sunace of the body, both mucous and cutaneous, is sensitive to the influence of the remedy, and that our medicine is effecting the purpose which we have in view; but if the congestion increase to such extent as to be inconvenient, the remedy must be stopped, or at least diminished in dose. Unless this be done, the extension of the arseni- cal congestion of the mucous membrane of the nose, the mouth and salivary glands, the bron- chial tubes, the stomach, or the intestines, may give rise to coryza, to salivation, to a dry hoarse cougli, to nausea and sickness, or to diarrhoea or dysentery. Subsequent to its action on the mu- cous membrane, and in rare instances before that action is established, the arsenic produces ery- thema of the skin, with more or less tumefaction, and often a very remarkable distension of the subcutaneous tissue of the whole body, such as is sometimes associated with the hyper-nutrition of pregnancy. The pharmaceutical preparations of arsenic are somewhat numerous, namely, liquor potassaj ar- senitis, or Fowler's solution; liquor arsenici chlo- ridi, or De Valangin's solution; arseniate of soda; arseniate of ammonia; arseniate of quinine; iodide' of arsenic; liquor hydriodatis hydrargyri et arsenici of Donovan; and the ioduretted iodide of potas- sium and arsenic of Neligan, the latter containing in the dose, five minims of Fowler's solution, one grain of the iodide of potassium, and a fourth of a grain of iodine, in solution in simple syrup. Of all these preparations, Fowler's solution is the most simple and probably the best, but in some cases, the atid solution of arsenic may be found more convenient; indeed, it has always appeared to us that as arsenic is administered with meals, at a time when an acid reaction prevails in the stomach, the acid solution should have certain consequent advantages. In fact, we have known more than one case of chronic eczema cured by the icid solution after the alkaline solution had failed. The arseniate of soda is most conveniently ex- hibited in the form of powder, the arseniate of ammonia, in solution like the potash solution and the arseniate of quinine and iodide of arsenic in pills. Donovan's solution must be prescribed with some simple fluid vehicle, such as syrup of ginger. Arsenic may be administered at nil ages, from SKIN, DISEASES OF. the infant at the breast to the most advanced term of life, and with equal security. It ia amazing how well it is borne by the infant and by elderly persons, how rapidly the nutrition of infants is improved under its use, and how quickly the eczema for which it is prescribed puts on a better character, and the skin assumes a more healthy aspect. The dose of Fowler's solution for an infant a month old may be one or two minims, three times a day, and this up to the age of four or five; from five to ten years, the dose ma}' be three minims; from ten to fifteen, four minims; and from and after fifteen years, four or five minims up to the period of decline of th'i physical powers in old age, when the dose may he again lowered to four, three, and two minims. Five minims of Fowler's solution may be assumed to be the full standard dose; that, in fact, which may be taken for the longest time without causing inconvenient effects. We have very seldom car- ried the dose beyond five minims three times in the day, and have rarely exceeded seven minims; therefore we are unable to say what the effect of increasing doses may be. Dr. McCall Anderson states the commencing dose of Fowler's solution for an adult, in a case of acute eczema, to be five minims three times in the day, to be increased, at the end of a week, by one minim every second or third day, " till the disease begins to yield, or the medicine to disagree." He moreover remarks that, "while five minims thrice daily soon dis- agree with some, ten, fifteen, or even thirty may be taken by others with impunity and with bene- fit." We may state as the result of our own experience that a very rapid improvement has often followed an increase of dose beyond the five minims to which the constitution has become habituated, and some excellent cures where the dose has been raised to ten minims. It is, how- ever, most important that where these large doses of arsenic are administered, the patient should be watched with more than ordinary anxiety and care. Besides a proper regulation of the dose, it is important that arsenic should be administered with the food; not before eating, because then it might be brought in contact with the mucous membrane of the stomach; not after the meal, because no limit IS fixed for the interval subsequent to the meal, and the dose may be forgotten; but, if pos- sible, in the midst of the meal and near its con- clusion, that the remedy may as it were be incor- porated with the fold, digested with the food and presented to the blood in the newly formed chyle that immediately succeeds to digestion. In the use of every remedy, it is important that the niedicine should be presented to the stomach in the least objectionable if not in the most pleasant shape possible, hence, arsenic should be exhibited alone, or as nearly so as practicable, and in the most condensed form consistent with security of administration. A tablespoonful of any fluid known to be a medicine, will soon affront the stomach, but five minims of Fowler's solution with fiCty-five minims of sacclinrized water, the whole constituting a measured teaspoonful, ii jluid draehm, may be taken for any length of time without inconvenience so fiir as the imagination of the patient is concerned. We have used one for- mula for many years, and we know of none better for administering the remedy, for regulatino- Q (i2 "8