LITHOTOMY. rather a contra-indication to the operation, than 217 a complication to be combated ; but, aa Mr. Erichsen observes, " if the patient's health be in a pretty good state, it will only be necessary to subject him to preparatory treatment for a short time, so aa to allay or remove irritability of the urinary organs before proceeding with the opera- tion." With this view, he should be kept as quiet as possible for about a week or ten days preceding the operation; his diet should be properly regu- lated, but not of too low a kind. The pain should be lessened by the administration of opium or henbane, and the bowels properly relieved. On the night preceding the operation, the bowels should also be cleared out by a dose of castor oil, &c.; and on the morning of the opera- tion an enema is administered, and repeated an ,hour or two before we proceed to cut. The instruments now employed for the lateral operation are lew and simple. A straight knife for the external, and a probe-pointed bistoury for the internal incision ; a grooved staff, and the forceps for extracting the stone; finally, scoops of various sizes; a searcher, and a pair of lithotomy tapes._ It will be prudetit to have in readiness, likewise, some needles and tenacula for taking up vessels, and Canute for plugging. The position of the patient should be one which afltords a full view of the perineum, previously shaved, and which, at the same time, ensures complete fixity. Thfr patient should be placed evenly on his back and be supported by pillows on a table of convenient height, about two feet and a half from the ground. The use of chloroform, to which the patient should be submitted either before his removal from bed or when he has been placed on the operating table, would seem to render the em- ployment of bands or tapes unnecessary; but it is nevertheless more prudent to bind the hands and feet firmly together. The bands should be of coarse flannel, about three yards long and three inches wide. The forceps should be of good length, but not too heavy. As the depth of the perineum varies in different patients, and the calculus may occupy different parts of the bladder, it is necessary that the surgeon should be provided with forceps of different lengths and shapes. Mr. Listen recom- mends forceps without teeth, but lined on the inner surface of the blades with coarse linen. This prevents the stone from slipping, and there is less risk of chipping it. In order to reduce the weight and lessen the diameter of the instrument when a stone is grasped, Mr. Coxcter has lately made forceps with open blades. As the use of the staff is to'conduct the cutting instrinnent along its groove into the bladder, at- tention should be paid to its shape and length. The staff should be full-sized, sufiiciently long and curved to enable the point to enter fairly one mch at least beyond the neck of the bladder. 1 he groove of the staff should be as deep as is cm.8.5tent^ with the solidity of the instrument. Ihe curve should be sufficiently great to cause the convex portion of the instrument to be readily lelt in the perineum without the necessity of depressing the handle, but the portion of the stall- beyond the curve may be straight, or nearly so in order to facilitate the passage of the cutting 'in- strument into the bladder. The assistant en-, trusted with the care of the stafi' should hold it firmly with the handle in the vertical direction, and the plane of the instrument in the middle line. The direction of the instrument should cor- respond as closely as possible to the natural curve of the urethra; and there is no necessity either for pressing the convexity of the staff" down on the middle line of the perineum or of directing it towards the left ischium. Having introduced the staff, the surgeon em- ploys it as a sound, to assure himself, onc.e more, of the presence of stone in the bladder. The patient is then secured on the table in the manner already noticed, and the surgeon, seating himself between the patient's legs, introduces the fore- finger of the left hand into the anus to ascertain that the gut is empty. The operation is now proceeded with; it consists of several acts which succeed each other in a given order, and may be described separately. These are, the external in- cision, the division of the membranous part of the urethra, the division of tlie prostate, or internal incision, and, finally, the extraction of the stone. The first incisions are made with the object of enabling the surgeon to fix his cutting instrument (whether it be a knife or gorget) in the groove of the staflj and also of afl"ording not only free access to the bladder but a ready exit for the stone. It is of great importance that these incisions should be made in a proper manner. Having fixed the staff and entrusted it to an . assistant, the surgeon places the thumb and fore- finger of the left hand so as to render the skin of the perineum on the left side of the raphe' tense In doing this he should avoid drawing the skin up too much, for if this be done, the superior angle of the wound will fall too low after the completion of the operation. The first, or external incision comprises the skin and subjacent fatty tissues. Some operators are in the habit of cutting down on the groove of the stall' with a single incision; but a more cautious method is preferable, unless in cases where the perineum is very shallow. The direction and extent of this external inci- sion have been varied, yet the principles accord- ing to which we should be guided are sufficiently simple. The surgeon should not commence it too high under tlie arch of the pubes, nor too low near the rectum; nor should he carry it too ob- liquely towards the ramus of the ischium. With a common scalpel an incision is made through the integuments, commencing three or four lines from the left side of the raphd, about an inch above the level of the anus, and continued obliquely down- wards and outwards until it ceases a little below the level of the tuber iscliii, midway between it and the anu3. As a general rule, the length of the first incision will depend on the size of the perineum and the presumed size of the stone; and in the adult sub- ject it extends from three to throe and a half inches. The integuments having been divided, a few rapid touches with the scalpel now likewise divide the lilt and the transverse muscles of the perineum. The index finger of the left hand is now passed into the wound at its upper angle, between the left accelerator urinre and erector muscles. Any resisting tissues and the fibres of the levator ani