•0 TRANSFUSION. ■with a suitable caimla to insert into tlie veins of tlie giver and the receiver. Dr. Aveling (Obslct. Trans., 1863) recommends a tube having a dila- tation in the middle like a Hig^'inson's sj'ringe, to enable the operator to propel tlie blood ; it has no valves. Dr. Uicliardson objects that even thus coagulation raav mar the operation. Most of those who have used"wliole blood have used some form of injecting syringe. Some have first collected the blood in a vessel, and have then taken it up into a sj-ringe. Dr. Blundell set the type of a num- ber of instruments by collecting the blood m a funnel-receiver, which was attached to the pipe of the syringe, so that the blood might gravitate at once 'into the syringe. Mr. Samuel Lane used an apparatus of this kind in a case where he performed the operation on a boy dying of bleeding; he was entirely successful, but he had to leave off and clean the apparatus several times on account of ubstruction by clots. Probably the addition of iiramonia or phosphate of soda might make this ap- paratus quite efficient. A good modification of it is i^^u^ed by mA\\gim&on{LivirpLMed.Chir.Trans. 1857), who by it treated successfully two cases out of six. The receiving-funnel admits the blood into an elastic barrel which has no piston. Squeez- ing the barrel propels its contents. Tlie bestsyringe, ho^vvever, appears to be Dr. Richardson's. It con- sists of a glass barrel holding six or eight ounces ; attached to tiie pipe is an elastic delivery-tube, a foot long, having at its end a canula, conveniently curved, with a long oblique mouth smoothed for insertion into the vein, and tapering so that when inserted it is pushed on till its calibre fills the ves- sel. The piston-rod works on a joint so that it can be placed out of the way when the blood of the giver is received direct into the barrel; the plug of the piston is perforated so that when the rod is lifted up an opening is made through which the blood received above it may run into the lower com- partment of the barrel. In this lower compartment is placed ready a small quantity of water, so that when the barrel is charged with blood, this water is thrown out first through the elastic tube expelling air—a little water going into the vein is of no con- sequence. A few drops of ammonia added to the blood in the barrel from time to time preserves its fluidity and enables the operator to proceed lei- surely' When the first charge is exhausted, more can be received in the barrel without displacing the apparatus from the patient's arm, or admitting air. This apparatus will answer equally well formjic- tion of saline or other Quids. As to the operation, the apparatus being tested as to its working order, the patient's arm should be prepared. A vein is selected at the bend of the elbow; a fold of skin is raised transversely to the vessel ; the base of the fold is pierced with a sharp-pointed bistoury,and the skin divided by cutting towards the surface; this gives an incision an inch in length, over and pa- rallel with the vein. A prube is now passed under the vein at the lower part of the incision, which serves to raise and steady the vessel, and to prevent the escape of any blood after the opening is made in it. This opening is made with a common lancet. A vein at tlie bend of the elbow of the giver is then opened in the ordinary way as for bleeding ; taking care that the opening will allow the blood lo tti)w plcno vivo. The supply of blood should be con- trolled hy an a9bi8tant,who should be ready to charge the syringe whcu wanted. The connection then being made with the patient's arm, the contents of the syringe are gently propelled into the vein. Wlien the syringe is nearly empty a fresh charge maybe taken, and in like manner injected. The quaniilij need not be great. In many successful cases tlie quantity injected did not exceed three ounces. Mr. Lane inj;cted about six ounces, and this is the quantity which has, perhaps, been most frequently thrown in. If the patient takes it well, we may go on till eight or ten ounces have been injjcted. It is doubtful whether more would be beneficial. The object of the operation is not all at once to make good what has been lost, but to rouse the heart and nervous centres from collapse, and to give opportunity to the system to rally. If Ave- ling's tube be used, it has occurred to me that coagulation might be prevented by driving a drop or two of ammonia into the barrel from time to time by means of Anel's syringe. The immediate indications in the case of haemor- rhage, as commonly recognised, are sinking to extent of collapse,extiiiction of pulse at the wrist,very feeble heart action, coldness of surface, gasping for air, jactitation, perhaps convulsions. These conditions are the forerunners of dissolution. That recoveiy under transfusion should only occasionally follow, is more calculated to excite astonishment than frequent failure. But that man)"^ such recoveries have taken place cannot be doubted. Greater success would be achieved if the operation were resorted to before these extreme symptoms supervened. On the other hand, there is a natural reluctance to resnrt to what appears to be a desperate remedy except in a desperate case. 3. What are the applications of tJie operation ? Of late years it has been almost restrietfd to cases of extreme exhaustion from haemorrhage, and this most frequently to cases occurring in obstetric practice. This application seems the most obvious and the least questionable. A fair amount of success has attended —so much indeed, that no one should be suffered to bleed to death without an attempt being made to restore him by transfusion. This will apply to all cases of threatening death from bleeding from'whatevercause. We shall not prolja- bly again fall into the enthusiastic excesses formerly indulged in ; we shall not expect by transfusion or infusion to rescue patients dying of phthisis cr malignant disease, or to make the old young ; but we may reasonably hope to save patients sinking under various acute diseases, attended with p dsoned blood. In the beginning of this article instances of recovery from fever are given. I anticipate good results from transfusion or inf.ision in some cases of puerperal convulsions after takii away a portion of the poisoned blood. It is o.- peciiiUy indicated in the exhaustion followinu' obstinate vomiting. It might be employed with advantage, in conjunction with artificial respiration, in cases of suspended animation from chloroform and similar conditions. The applications of infusion seem to admit of far greater extension beyond those at present re- corded. Nothing appears more hopeful in cholor.i- coliapse than the infusion of salines. Dr. Little s fluid was designed to sunply the salts lost, and to give a fluid of specific gravity nearly equal to thiit of blood. Plaiii water, it is known, causes the hlood globuUs to swell. Dr. Woodman tells me Iie found the blood-globules preserved their u.itu- lal appearance after saline injection. 'J'he following-