lliU VISION, jiiyopii; pj-es. Tlie mrtscje often appear suddenly, and witlioTtt any signs of irritation. They are too small to be visible willi the ophthalmoscope, and arc connected with morbid changes of the "vitreous." Not irafreqiiently we meet with partial dis- placement of the hyaloid membrane, fluid inter- Tening between it and the retina. On careful examination with the ophthalmoscope, we may succeed in seeiwg the displaced part. It appears as a transparent fold of membrane which in a limited area floats to and fro in front of the retina. It is distinctly perceived by the patient as a dark, slightly movable sp&t, and has repeatedly been found on dissection. The ritreous substance, though free from muscje, frequently loses its consistence, becouies more or Jess fluid, either throughout, or only adjoining the most atrophic portions of the tunics. It often gives lise to " tremulous lens and iris." Photopsia greatly distresses many myopic per- sons for years, and without giving rise to any im- pairment of vision. It may be intermittent or persiste)it, and is most troublesome in the dark. The patients generally complain of red flashes of light, or of red spots appearing before the eyes. Several patients repeatedly have stated, that when the flashes appear suddenly, objects situsvted exter- nally to the eyes could be recognised during the duration of a flash. Hypersemra of the optic disc accompanying the distension, &c. of the adjoining tunics, and un- usually rapid atrophy and distension of the hexa- gonal cells affecting the rods and bulbs, are pro- bably the sole cause. If the photopsia appears snddenly and simulta- neously with amblyopia, it must not be treated lightly. Partial displacement of the retina, or inflammation of some parts of the tunics, may be the cause, and must be looked for. Treatment.—Tlie functions of the myopic eye as regards acuteness of sight are often impaired by undue distension of its tunics ; the predisposition tn which exists in every mj'op. The increase of distension cannot wholly be counteracted, w^hatever treatment be adopted. Our advice must tend as much as possible to diminish the progress of the distension, i.e. the in- rrease of the myopia. We therefore recommend the patient— Not to stoop when reading, &c. Especially strongly myopic persons, as a rule, stoop when reading, &c., and hold objects nearer than is ne- cessary for distinct vision. They must, to do this, converge the eyes strongly, if both are used. Stooping gives rise to over-fulness and congestion of the eyes, to increase of tension, and through too great convergence to pressure upon the already too tliin coats of the eyeball. Patients should hold the head upright when reading, and place the book or paper, when writing, on a sloping desk. Par- ticular attention should be paid to this in children. Objects must be held as far from the eyes as is compatible with distinct vision, and, if that distance is less than 10 inches, spectacles may be recom- mended ill young myopics. If the patient complains of weakness, fatigue, pain, irritability, &c. of the eyes.—These symp- toms are termed symptoms of irritation. They may appear during near work, e.g. reading only. Often they are present whether looking at near or at distant objects. They arc connected with hyperiemia of the external and internal parts of tlie eye, as observed in the course of progressing myopia (distension of the eyes). Close applica- tion to studj", or to other near work, during rapid growth of all parts of the body, seems to be the most common cause of these tronblesome symptoms. They very rarely rise to actual inflammation. The patient complains of intolerance of light, which may be very great, and continne for months; of watering of the eyes, and of aching or of actual pain over the eyebrows, and " at the back of the eyeballs." Tlie pain may be caused by the hy- perainia and distension of the tunics, or by spasm of the ciliary muscle. In the latter case, we often find the portion of the tunics which lies over and near the ciliary muscle tender to the touch, when the pain increases rapidlj- during near work. The eyes continue sensitive to light and touch after all near work has been discontinued. Rarely do we hear the common complaint of hypermetro- pics, of the letters running into one another, or disappearing after reading for some time (=As- thenopia). It is generally the aching, the weakness, the " dazzling," and the intolerance of light which compel the myop to discontinue near-work, and in iiigh degrees even to abstain from moving about in bright light. Frequently the complaint is made, that after reading for some time, one eye " moves outwards," that the words seem to move over each other, and that efforts to overcome the outward movement are painful. This symptom is attributed to insufficiency of the internal recti muscles. On examination with the ophthalmoscope we find sometimes the entire optic disc byperremic, sometimes only the portion which joins the least distended part of the tunics, while the one next the crescent appears anaemic. In many cases it appears as if the retina (the retinal aperture) en- croached upon the optic disc, i.e. as if it was drawn over the margin of the disc by the dis- tended portion on the opposite side. The optic disc, choroid, and retina at that spot are particularly hyperffiraic. The veins of the retina are often very tortuous and full over the distending portions of the tunics. Sometimes the retina is not quite as transparent as in other parts. The choroid adjoining the trans- parent atrophic portions appears unduly "red, and its veins gorged with blood, The margin of the eyelids appears somewhat reddened, and in many, generally thin,"delicate" myopics, we find slight tinea. The subconjunc- tival vessels, emerging from the sclerotic near the margin of the cornea, are numerous, and the pupili in higher degrees of hyperasmia, is sluggish. In high degrees of irritation, a rapid increase of myopia, amounting in some cases to amblyopia, is observed. , The patient must abstain from the kind of work which brings on the symptoms of irritation, and should never work longer than can be done with comfort. The sooner and more strictly this rule is oliserved, together with proper treatment, the shorter will be the period during which reading. &c., need be prohibited, and the less rapid will be the progress of the myopia. Spectacles with blue-tinted, large round glasses, the tint being selected which feels most picasa'it to the patient, should be worn. They must ne laid aside if light is no mo»e troublesome. The