SCROTUM. 567 ueieht, and the impediment which it causes to his walking well. Hence he is necessitated to employ a snspensory bandiige. In consequence of tin- situation of the urethia, the urine dribbles over the swelling; but without ciiusing any excoriation." In most of the cases, seen by Lurrey, the sper- matic chord and testicles were in the natural state, situated at the sides and at the root of the swel- ling. The spermatic vessels, iiowever, were some- what enlarged and elongatt d. All the patients were likewise more or less affected with elephantiasis. Baron Larrey attempts to explain the causes of the complaint in Egypt, but, as I think, without any degree of success. As the affec ion is seldom seen in cold countries, climate has certainly a chief effect. Employments which keep persons a good deal in a sitting posture ; the loose breeches worn by the Egyptian?, and the consequently pendulous state of the scrotum ; diseases of the humours, and particuhirly itchy pustules on the part, an ordinary consequence of syphilis in that country ; b:id regi- men ; abuse of venery ; and the immoderate use of the warm bath ; are merely conjectures, which will not bear the test of reasoning. The enormous magnitude, which this sort of disease may attain, is almost incredible. The case recorded in the Ephemerides German, weighed about a hundred kilograms, or more than two hundred weight. Another, described by Laney, was calculated to weigh about one hundred and twenty pounds ; and this surgeon likewise saw in Egypt ten or twelve more instances, nearly as large, and all of the same character. A curious example, in which a similar disease affected the labia pudendi in a surprising degree, ia also detailed by Larrej'. The woman was a native of Cairo. In the early stage of the disorder, we may try preparations of antimony combined with sudorifics; drinks acidulated with sulphuric acid; lotions con- taining the same acid, or the bichloride of raercur}-, the oxyde of copper, or ilie chloride of ammonia. These means are to be assisted by a gradual, uni- form compression of the whole tumor. In one case, incisions, and the application of caustic, proved of no .service, and Larrey very properly condemns all such experiments. When the disease resists every plan tried for its relief, and its increase renders the patient's life irk- some and wretched, the extirpation of the tumor with a knife becomes proper. In this proceeding, the chief skill consists in doing no injury to the spermat c chords and testicles, which are in general perfectly sound. Care must also be taken not to iiijure tiie corpora cavernosa penis, and the uretiirn. After the operation, the skin is to be brought over the exposed testicles, as much as possible,by suture, adhesive plaster and a bandage. M. Delonnes successfully removed the diseased mass in the celebrated case of the French minister Delacroix, and Larrey performed the same opera- tion with success when he was in Egypt. Dr. Tuh-y, of the island of St. Christopher, also cut away such a tuuior, which weighed seventy lbs., and the patient, who was a negro,and alsoatfected with elephantiasis, speedily recovered. (See Med. C/iir. Trans, vol. vi. p, 73, &c.) The case of the Chinese operated upon by Mr. Aston Key, in Guy's Hospital, had a quickly fatal result, the patient not having had stamina sufficient to endure the requisite proceeding. In Mr. Liston's example, the tumor had'been growing for twelve years, in a patient about twenty- two or twenty-three years of age. The operation was performed many years ago. and the patient now enjoys perfect health. " It was impnssible (Mr. Liston observes) to say where the organs of generation were placed in the mass ; if they could have been found and saved, I should not have beeTi able to cover them ; they would thus have been totally unserviceable.'' I think, however, that nature would soon have formed a new inves^ nient for them, as she often does where the scrotum sloughs away from effusion of urine. The mass was detached from the perineum and pubes, toge- ther with the testes, and two inches of the penis. About sixteen arteries were tied. The tumor weighed nearly fif.y pounds, and is preserved in Mr. Liston's collection. {Op. cit. p. 290.) Probably some of the cases, which occur in warm countries, are analogous to elephantiasis ; one weighing one hundred and ten pounds, and suc- cessfully removed by Clot-Bey, is stated to iiave been of this nature (see Travaux de. fEcole de Mid. d'Abou Zabel, Egyple, p. 131, 8vo. Paris, 1833) ; but I do not believe that the scaly incrus- tations, which are represented by this distinguished individual, and also by Baron Larrey, as having occurred in the cases which they saw in Egypt, have always been noticed in the instances which have taken place in colder countries. Nor, indeed, did they take place in the instance recorded bv Dr. Titley. Delpech gives an account of a patient, aged thirty-five, a native of Perpignan, whose scrotum was converted into an enormous mass, weighing sixty French pounds, in which the penis, the spermatic chords, and the testicles were completely buried. The swelling was nearly pyriform, flat- tened transversely, divided at its lower front part into three principal lobes, and reached downwards below the calf of the leg. Behind, it formed a vast projection ; and it was attached to the perineum and hypogastric region by a neck, or pedicle, that occupied the whole space comprised between the pubes, the two groins, and the anus. The cir- cumference of the pedicle, at its narrowest part, was eighteeu French inches. The patient could neither walk nor stand, without much difficuUy. Although the organs of generation were buried in the manner thus specified, erections and seminal emissions occasionally took place. Some parts of the integuments were tuberculated ; and in the in- terior lobe of the swelling, which was like a cauli- flower excrescence, there was a transverse fissure, at the bottom of winch was a deep sinus, running upwards and rather to the left: such was the state ot the prepuce and pessage. through which the urine was discharged. For the particulars of tha operation, by which this enormous mass was re- moved, so as to leave two lateral flaps of sound skin for covering the testicles, I must refer to CIdi: CLinique de Munipellier, t. ii. 4to. 1828. The extent of the wound may be conceived, when it ia stated, that the external pudendal artery, the artery cf the septum scroti, the dorsal arteries of the penis, the transverse artery of the perineum, ihe right and left arteries of the bulb, and ^evel■ai branches of the inferior hemorrh'iiilal, required liga- tures, the ends of which M. Delpech cut oil', in order that the extraneous matter in the wound might bo lessened. Owing to the prodigious elon-