rule, tlie sooner the dissevered surfiices are laid toiiotluT tlie bettei'. " Notiiiiig can agree better witli one surface of n wound," savs Dell, " than the opposite one, which has just been separiited from it." Further, tlie same writer adds : " Tliia simple duty of chising a wound is both natural and safe." So, too, Assalini in liis Manual f-a3's : " Every wound of the soft pans formed by a cut- ting weapon, from the opening of a vein to with- draw a few ounces of blood, up to the incision made in tlie uterus for removing the foetus, should be united by first intention." Of late, much un- merited obloquy has been cast on the ligature as an iieniostatic agent. It has been said to act as a eeton, and to poison the tissues by getting inipreg nated with the decomposing secretions of the wound. To overcome these evils, and allow of early and complete closure, Sir James Simpson perfected acu[ires3ure, and Mr. Syme has reintro- duced that torsion which Mauuoir, Amussat, and Velpeau did so much at one time to encourage. More lately, Mr. Lister has proposed to recur to the ligiitures of animal tissue, so larglj' used at one time by Jamieson of Baltimore, Physic of New York, Sir A. Cooper, Wardrop, and Manec, and ■which in their hands so signally failed ; but when impregnated with carbolic acid, Mr. Lister hopes that thej- may become absorbed, and cease to irri- tate or excite suppuration. Metallic ligatures, too, have had their trial since first used by Levert, but the success has been but small and not encourag- ing. All these are attempts (and there have been others) to enable the wound to be e;irly closed, so as to avoid the complications which otherwise may arise. The blood-vessels being secured, the careful apposition of the lips of the wound next claims the surgeon's attention. To exclude the atmospheric air in the most perfect manner is an object of im- portance to,rapid and unchecked union. It is well known how successful and complete is the repair of subcutaneous wounds, and to assimilate as much as possible all wounds capable of it to the same conditions would naturally be very desirable. That continued exposure to the atmo.«phere induces suppuration is well ascertained and long known, but it is not so clear by what exact agency it so acts. Whether we believe, with most physiologists, that it is the oxygen and moisture of the atmosphere which is the detrimental principle, or, relying on Pasteur's experiments, find it in the organic germs which are deposited by the air, we are equally convinced of the jiropriety of excluding that air, if pos'il/le. If it cannot be wholly excluded, the next best thing to do is to neutralise its pernicious cfTects by employing various agencies which may be supposed to possess the required qualities. Let US glance at the more recently suggested methods of securing these adv;mt(igcs. I. Mftluids of Ireatiiient nhich aim at ciedudiiKj the air alloyellicr.—Guerin would perform as many operations as possible subcutancously, in whole or in part; and when this is impracticable, he proposes to use air-tight galvanised caoutchouc coverings, from beneath which the air is re- moved by a pump communicating with a jar into which a tube connected with the vulcanised cover also leads. The coverings are afterwards held in close contact with the wound by atmospheiic pressure. Tills he terms " pneumntic occlusion." He places a thin permeable tissue between the WOUNDS. 1027 wound nnd the india-rubber, so as to facilitate ex- halation. To the same end, Chassaignac recommends his "pausement par occlusion." This consists in closely covering ("en cuirasse") the wound, but without exerting any pressure, with strips of adhe- sive plaster, the one layer crossing the other "so as to form a sort of mosaic.'' Each laj'er slightly exceeds in size the dimensions of the wound, and the most superficial la3'erof all is the longest. In this way, three layers are usually employed. The whole is covered with linen (perforated or not) spread with ointment, which Richard recommends should be mixed with resinous matter, to act as a disinfectant. By this arrangement, the wound is hermetically sealed from the air; but to make doubly sure, charpie is placed over all, then some carded cotton, and, finally, a bandage whose turns are sewed together to make all close and firm. If no pressing cause arise, the apparatus is not removed for a week or more, but it is rare, from the irritation set up, that more than two weeks can be exceeded. Laugier, again, accomplishes the same end— the complete closure of the wound from all atmo- spheric contact—by covering it with gold-beater's leaf and a solution of gum-arabic. This has been found useful in the treatment of burns. Further ; various methods of sealing wounds have been at various times followed among ourselves. A piece of lint steeped in blood, or in glycerine, or compound tincture of benzoin, or the use of some gum which will adhere and exclude the air, have each had their advocates. The styptic colloid of Dr. Richardson closes superficial wounds most eflectually. Solutions of gutta-percha, india- rubber, &c., have all been emploj'ed with certain advantages in many cases. Further, the treatment introduced by Langen- beck, in 1839, of keeping the wounded part constantly under water, may be put under this head. It is well known that the distinguished surgeon referred to at one time employed this mode of dressing even for amputation wounds. The difficulty of obtaining a fitting apparatus, and the discomfort attending it, have prevented this plan being much followed. A current of water of any desired temperature can be made to flow through the vessel containing the wounded part, so that all discharges are at once removed, while disinfectants stimuliiiits, &c., can, if required, be mixed with' the water. For crushed hands, this metliod of immersion is very useful. 2. Plans of disinfecting or preventing putrefac- tion, or modifiiing the absorbent activity of the surfwe.—Whm the air cannot be excl'uded, the next best thnigobviously would be to neutralise, if possible, any deleterious agency wliich it may hold in suspension. If it be" oxygen, or moisture, or organic germs, the problem is to find an agent which will remove, nullify, or destroy such noxious influences, and yet leave the tissues un- harmed. To counteract the evil efl'ects of contact with the living textures of decomposing or putie- factive secretions is the great desire and aim of many methods of local management. Alcohol has been used from the earliest times in some form to wash out and dress wounds. Hippo- crates protests against the use of water to open surfaces, but advises the use of wine, under the Idea that it dries the wound, "n dry conditi.m being nearer a state of health, and humidity nearer 3 tJ 2