elasticity which characterizes the encephaloid tu- mor. In some cases both breasts are similarly affected. It is generally met with, as Sir A. Cooper states, in persons from 17 to 30 years of age, but may be developed at any period of life. A section of the tumor appears lobulated, lus trous, more or less granular, and of a whitish- yellow or amber colour, from the presence of fat, exuding a serous or ropy-limpid fluid, but never the lactescent juice characteristic of cancer. Tumors of this kind are but little vascular. M. Lebert has twice traced nervous filaments into their structure ; in one instance the nerves were hypertrophied. They may implicate either the proper glandular structure, or the fibro-cellular structure of the mamma, or both together, to a variable extent, are incased in a cellular enve- lope ; and in about a third of the cases, cysts are developed. They are of slow growth, and seldom the seat of uneasiness or pain, unless at the men- strual period. The shape of the breasts remains unaltered, except where cysts are rapidly deve- loped. These sometimes contract adherences with the nipple, but never with the pectoral muscle. There is another variety of chronic mammary tumor which seems to be isolated from the glan- dular texture, and which varies iu consistence from that of a softish sarcoma to that of a dense fibrous growth, and has been described accordingly as sarcoma, or as fibrous tumour of the breast ; a peculiarity connected with it is, that it occasion- ally recurs after extirpation. In some instances the overlying skin becomes red and congested, and even ulcerates. In a case of lobular hypertrophy which the writer had the ad- vantage of seeing in consultation with Dr. Alderson, and of which that gentleman has published an ac- count {Med. C/iir. Trans., vol. xxxvii.), the superin- cumbent skin presented a remarkable appearance resembling parchment. The affected patch wns situated above the nipple, and was four inches long by an inch and three quarters wide. It had much the feel of a portion of the integument in a dead body to which a blister had been applied during life. It was the seat of increased heat, and its margin showed a faint red blush. The patient was a young lady in her twentieth year, residing in the country, and enjoying good health : she eventually recovered. Chronic mammary tumors are generally met with in unmarried and barren women, but have also been found in those who have become mothers and who have suckled their ofl^spring. They may appear, as above stated, at any age, but usually during the persistence of the catamenial function, and but seldom in elderly females. Their deve- lopment does not seem to depend on menstrual irregularity, but rather to proceed from traumatic causes. A case of the kind came under the writer's care in St. Mary's Hospital, of a young female, who ascribed its origin to a blow from a shutter. In another instance the tumor was believed to have arisen from the pressure of a stay-bone. The diagnosis is often obscure. The mobility of the tumor, the absence of adherence to the integu- nient, the slowness of its growth, and the fact of Its frequently remaining stationary for years, the adjacent glands remaining almost always unaffected and the general health undisturbed, are circum- stances which will serve to distinguish it from can- cer. It may be remarked that the diagnosis becomes obscure in the case of cysts being formed MAMMA, DISEASES OF. 281 ' internally, and determining a rapid evolution and painful condition of the growth. In some rare instances these tumors have been known to disappear spontaneously. By way of treatment, recourse may be had to the different preparations of iodine and of bromine, employed both internally and topically. I have seen benefit follow the exhibition of alterative doses of bichlo- ride of mercury, say the sixteenth or the eighth of a grain, and also of the tribasic phosphate of soda given in half-drachm doses. Intercurrent pain may be relieved by opium or belladonna, and, if of a congestive character, by the occasional application of a few leeches. Good has sometimes accrued from the use of flying blisters, and also from covering the part with lint spread with compound mercurial cerate, kept in its place by means of strips of soap-plaster laid on so as to maintain a gentle and equable pressui'e. Should remedial means prove unavailing, as frequently happens, and the disease be very painful, and disposed to attain much size, re- course may be had to extirpation. The operation is simple, because the tumour is readily turned out, and the wound often heals by first intention. M. Velpeau, out of fifty operations, did not lose a single patient. M, Lebert, however, witnessed two cases fatal after operation—one from pneu- monia and one from erysipelas. As stated above, there may be a recurrence of the growth.] Neuralgia of the Breast.—Masiodt/nia —This occurs under two diflferent forms. The first con- sists in increased sensibility of the mamma, which IS sometimes so great that exposure to cold touch- ing It even gently, or the weight of the bed-clothes causes excruciating pain. The breast presents no perceptible change whatever, the disease beine purely neuralgic. Dr Cumin, however, observed one of the lobes of the mamma become slightly r'/lf"J FT""''? ''""^^ ^^i^™ t^-^^hed! {Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxvii. p. 226 ) rhe affection may come on at the decline of life but occurs chiefly in women from 20 to 30 years old; and the pain is most agonising just before the time of the menses, or during the flow, extending from the breast to the arm, down to the fingers' ends—nay, even sometimes afl-ectingthe sight fit has been usually met with in chlorotic and hys- terical women, and is occasionally associated with intercostal neuralgia, according to Scanzoni (o c p. 575). It IS for the most part a tedious affec- tion, proving highly refractory, but not endangerintr life A variety of remedial means have been sugt gested. On the whole, most benefit has been obtained by the use of chalybeates, such as the solution of superacetatc of iron, and embrocations compounded with chloroform, especially that pre pared by allowing belladonna-root to digest in chloroform. Scanzoni states that he has known a cure follow the long-continued exhibition of Fow Icrs solution.] Sir A. Cooper recommended the employment of a hip-bath of sea or salt-wnter heated to 100° or 105° Fahr. ' [The other form, the Irritable Tumor of the Breast of Sir A Cooper has been fully described by M. Rufz. (Arch. Oai. de Mid., l!M3 3" ^cne, t. liK, p. 73.) It is characterised by small tumors, which are possibly neuromata. Thev arn usually scattered round the periphery of tiie gland