Bincciimler the same authority, in the Afediciiiische Ja/ii/jiioher, hill as these mainly refer to iiill:ininia- tioii of special organs and tissues, they liardly come within the scope of the present article. Briefly, the results obtained at Vienna were these:—Examining into inflammation of the cornea, tiie authors (Norris and Strieker) as in previous researches, produced irritation of the cornea of the frog, by applying nitrate of silver. After a time the cornea was removed and ex- amined, either fresh in the serum of the animal or after treatment with a half per cent, solution of chloride of gold. A few hours after the irritation the iixed corneal corpuscles exhibited si>;ns of change ; they were swollen and granular, and their nuclei increased in number. Yet again, when the cornea was examined from five to twelve hours after irritation, there was found in the neighbour- hood of the slongh produced by the irritant a larger number of these corneal masses, with a few thick and short projections from their surface, and a number of irregular multiple nucleated masses, without any projections. Many of these were vacuolated, but this seemed to have no necessary connection with the irritation. From fifteen to twenty hours after the applica- tion of the irritant, the corpuscles showed more numerous nuclei (eight to ten), these nuclei not bemg the product of several amalgamated cells, but the outcome of a single corpuscle, the pro- duct of an excessive cell growth. These cells further exhibited the characteristic movements of wandering cells. Thus it was proved that the fixed corpuscles of the cornea undoubtedly do par- take in the changes implied by the inflammatory process, even in its earliest stages. When inflammation of the cornea is indirectly induced by section of the bulb, the process begins at Its periphery, and these wandering cells, multiple nucleated masses, and unchanged corneal cor- puscles accumulate, but the nearer the centre of the cornea examination is made, the more the two former varieties shrink in numerical importance, whereas, if inflammation is produced by direct application of an irritant, it is from the irritated spot that the inflammation, with its wandering cells, &c., spreads in an ever-widening zone. These results it will be seen are quite at va- riance with those obtained by Cohnheim. The fixed corpuscles of the cornea, according to Strieker, alter ; they increase in size, and their nuclei nmltiply ; above all this, they assume the power of spontaneous movement. Furthermore, the changes in traumatic keratitis do not in- variably begin at the corneal margin, as stated by Cohnheim, but at the source of the irritation, be that wliere it may. Cohnheim erred in takimr torbidity as his guide, for by the time turbidity '8 set up, important changes have taken place, these being in reality the causes of the turbidity. ^0 Cohnheim's two best experiments of the ^salted frog " and the coloured leucocytes, the Vienna investigators rejily that the former experi- ment implies a complete alteration in the nutrition or every part ; the conditions are no longer nor- mal, and iiiflaiumation can no longer take place iiormally. To the latter they also replv, that thev ^ well ;i3 Von Recklinghausen {Uehcr Eitrr- uv'd lii'idynwhs-Kovpcnhm. Vircliow\ Archiv, vol. xxviii ) had seen wandering cells transfer coloured farticlea from one to the other, so that the pre- INFLAMMATION, sence of coloured particles in a few corpuscles proves nothing as to their origin. The second paper in the Studicn, also by b trick er,^ treats of cell division in injlamed tissues. the frogs tongue was made the subject of expe- riment, as in Cohnheim's second research. Strieker fixed his attention on the colourless cor- puscles lying outside a small vein, and watched the further changes which they underwent. By prolonged attention to single elements, it was seen that tliey gradually divided into two rounded masses, which spontaneously separated the one from the other, each becoming a wandering element, and probably in its turn undergoing self-division, lurning his attention next to the original tissue elements of the frog's tongue, he wag able to recognise the connective tissue corpuscles described by Cohnheim. These he observed first took on a certain degree of mobility, then assumed a jointed appearance, but true cell-division could not be satisfactorily made out, owing to the crowded state of the field. Next he tried to make out the speci- fic influence exercised by the conditions of inflam- mation, viz., increased supply of nourishment, and elevation of temperature, on a healthy structure. To this end ho cut out the cornea of one eye in a frog, and introduced it into the pouch formed by the nictitating membrane of the other side, which had been prepared for the purpose, bv having vio- lent inflammation set up. In twenty-four hours the transplanted cornea was examined, and found exactly in the same condition as if it had remained in Its place and been itself the subject of irrita- tion, only these changes were not quite so far advanced as those would have been under normal circiimstances. The presence of wandering bodies 111 the transplanted cornea was, however, o'f doubt- ful interpretation; they might liave penetrated it by virtue of their own motive power from the fluids ot the inflamed eye, or they might have been developed iii the transplanted corneal tissue itself io settle this as far as possible, a cornea was cut out and divided into two portions before being introduced into the inflamed conjunctiva. One of these portions was introduced into the inflamed eye living, so to speak, the other was killed by wash- ing with distilled water. Twentv-four hours alter, wlien the two were examined, the diller ence was marked. The portion introduced living presented nil the marks of inflammation, that ni roduced dead contained but few migrated cells, and these mostly near the surface ° The conclusimi arrived at from this and similar exne riments was that, under such circumstances, though a portion of the wandering cells found Ml the transplanled cornea had undoubtedly made tlieir way from the fluid without the cornea into Its interior, the great bulk of them had been pro duced within Its substance—the product of its own corpuscular elements, no other stimulus to their production being required than an excessive supply n( fluid nourishment. The other papers in the S/udicn are mainly taken up with special forms of inflammation without any very particular bearini; oil the process generally, but some were pulilished about the same time in linUott's[r,,tm-nc/nwacn a„s drm Iiislilulefur Physiohyicnnd Hislohyia in Unix which deserve notice. The writer, ])r. Byneck' deals entirely with the phenomena of blood-sfisis in inflamed parts. It'had aIr(^•ldv^lee^ m-oved by Prof. Lister {PhU. Trans. 1(J5«) tliat^blold