923, VENEREAL DISEASE. of cartilage under the skin, and tlio sloughing ulcer. The first is slow and chronic ; the latter begins with a mortified spot, extends by alternate sloughing and phagedajnic ulceration, and makes more progress in three days than the former in as many weeks. " The phageda;nic ulcer is equally distinct from chancre, as it does not evince at any period a luxrdened base, but gradually creeps from one part to an ither of the penis, leaving those parts to heal which, in the first instance, it attacked; so that when the disease has existed for some months, the glans is seen to exhibit its entire surface furrowed over with ulcerations and cicatrices. " There is a raised ulcer also with elevated edges, approacliing the nature of the phagedsenic ulcer, yet whose characters are sufficiently dis- tinct to be considered as a separate species. But the most common venereal primary ulceration presents such various appearances in different in dividuals, that until a more exact knowledge is obtained, it is better described by its negative than its positive qualities; and it may be designated an ulcer without induration, raised edges, or phage- daenic surface. " If (continues Mr. Carmichael) the plurality of venereal poisons is supported by the varietj' of primary ulcers, it is equally so by the multiplicity of constitutional eruptions. A primary ulcer, ■which was not phagedaenic, or sloughing at first, may afterwards, like any other ulcer, become so by irritation, neglect, or inflammation. But, I do not conceive that we have grounds for sup- posing -that the state of the constitution can so modify morbid poisons as to cause the same virus to produce in one person the chronic scaly lepra and psoriasis, and to assume in another a decided pustular form, each pustule spreading rapidly into a deep ulcer." (On the Symptoms and Specific DisUnclions of Venereal Diseases, p. 6, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1818.) The same gentleman, in another earlier publica- tion, gives his reasons for believing, that certain primary appearances are followed by a correspond- ing train of constitutional symptoms. 1st. That the syphilitic chancre gives rise to scaly eruptions, lepra, and psoriasis ; an excavated ulcer of the tonsils, and pains and nodes of the bones. 2dly. That the ulcer, without induration, raised edges, or phagedaenic surface, gonorrhoea virulenta, an excori^ition of the glans and prepuce, are followed by a papular eruption, which ends in desquamation, pains in the joints resembling those of rheumatism, soreness of the fauces, and frequently swelling of the lymphatic glands of the neck ; but without any nodes of the bones. 3dly. That the ulcer, with elevated edges, in the few instances in which it was traced by Mr. Carmichael to its constitu- tional symptoms, was followed by a pustular eruption, which terminated in mild ulcers, p iins in the joints, and ulcers in the throat, but no appearance of nodes. 4thly. That the phagedcenic and sloughing ulcers are generally attended with constitutional symptoms of peculiar obstinacy and malignity; viz. pustular spots and tubercles, which form ulcers, generally spreading with a phageda3nio edge, and healing from the centre ; extensive ulceration of the fauces, particularly of the hack of the pharynx, obstinate pains of the knees and other joints, while nodes are frequently present, and the bones of tiie nose are occasionally alFected. on the (See Carmkhacl's Essays,' and his Obs Symptoms, c^c. of Ven. Diseases, p. 9.) The observations of other writers coincide with those of Mr. Carmichael, respecting the great variety of character in primary venereal sores ; but the hypothesis of various kinds of venereal poisons, or infectious matter, is perhaps rather losing ground. Indeed, on some of the principal points connected with the latter subject, little similarity of opinion prevails between him and other gentlemen who have entered into the dis- quisition. And, in the first place, without adverting again to certain statements alreadj' premiseil, which render it probable that differences of the virus, or, at all events, differences in the forms of the primary complaints in the contaminating indi- viduals, would not always explain the reason of the diversified appearances and nature of the primary forms of disease in the contaminated, I shall lay before the reader other evidence, having an immediate relation to Mr. Carmichael's senti- ment, that each kind of primary venereal sore is followed by a peculiar and corresponding train of constitutional symptoms. In the cases recited by Mr. Rose, " most of the papular eruptions followed ulcers which were not very deep, and which healed without much difficult^-. Several of them had a thickened, but not a particularly indurated margin. This corresponds with the observations of Mr. Carmichael :—/ could not, hoioever, discover any decidedly uniform cliaracter in such sores; and the 16th case I should have considered as a well- marked instance of chancre." (Med, Chir. Trans. vol. viii. p. 399.) In another place, it is stated, that the appearances of sores can seldom be relied on in parts of such vascular structure, and in the midst of sebaceous glands. (P. 419.) With re- spect to the phagedcenic ulcer, Mr. Rose expresses his belief, that it is rarely followed by secondary s3-mptom8, though he inclines to the opinion, that it arises from the application of some morbific matter, acknowledging, however, the great difficulty of deciding " whether the great degree of erethismus, excited by the local affection, should be attri- buted to any peculiarity in that matter, or to the peculiar state of the constitution. (lUed. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 372.) And he then refers to the case reported by Dr. Fergusson, where " the infection was communicated by an opera-dancer at Lisbon, apparently in perfect health, who con- tinued on the stage for several months afterwards, occasionally infecting others, without anything extraordinary, as far as he could learn, in the nature of the symptoms." (Op. cit. vol. iv. p. 12.) And, on the same subject. Mr. Guthrie does not think " that Mr. Carmichael's opinion as to the second- ary symptoms, peculiar to the phagedajnic and sloughing ulcer, receives any support from what occurred to the troops in Portug.-il; because it did not appear, that either of them, following sexual intercourse, were dependent on the cause which produced the ulcer. Where many men have had intercourse with the same woman (and with no others?) they have not all had the same compkint, although one of the ulcers, so originating, has be- come phagedaenic or sloughed; neither lias the same woman herself suffered from this distemper: indeed, the nature of an ulcer of either kind must, after a short time, cffectuallj' prevent any in- tercourse; and we often find that its peculiar characters only appear after the ulcer has existed