934 VENEREAL DISEASE, Although-the fact of the fossihility of curing every kind of ulcer on the genitals without mer- cury has been fully confirmed by the statements of Mr. Guthrie {Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 558 and 576), Dr. J. Thomson (^Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. for January, 1818), Dr. Hen- nen (Op. cit. Nos. 54 and 55 ; and Principles of Military Surgery, Snd ed.), Mr. Bacot {On Syphilis, p. 26, &c.), and, although it is of great importance in relation to the removal of erroneous doctrnie concerning the diagnosis ; yet the expediency of the non-mercurial practice must evidently be determined by other considerations, the principal of which are the comparative quickness of the cures effected with and without mercury ; the comparative severity and frequency of secondary symptoms ; and the generally acknowledged fact that a syphilitic primary sore is not indicated with any'degree of certainty by its mere external character, or, indeed, any other criterion hitherto discovered. Respecting the comparative quickness of the cures of chancres, or reputed chancres, without the aid of mercury, much disagreement prevails ni the different reports, even those collected by the same individuals, whose statements must there- fore be dee&ed perfectly impartial, though incon- clusive. ( See Hennen's Military Surgery, 2nd ed. p. 536, &c.) Some of Mr. Rose's best marked cases of chancre, that is to say, such as were dis- tinguished by the indurated ba«e and circumler- euce, healed in a very short itiflie. But even respecting these or any other kind of chancre, no regularity on this point can be found. Mr. Guthrie observes, if the " ulcers were not without any marked appearance, and did not amend in the first fortnight, or three weeks, they generally remained for five or seven weeks longer^ and the only difference in this respect between them and the raised ulcer of the prepuce was, that this often remained for a longer period, and that ulcers pos- sessing the true character of chancre required, in general, a still longer period for their cure, that is, from six, eight, to ten, and, in one case, even twenty-six weeks, healing up and ulcerating again on a hardened base. Those that required, the greatest length of time, had nothing particular in their appearance that would lead us to distinguish them from others of the same kind, which were healed in a shorter time." {Med.-Chir. Trans. vol. viii. p. 558.) The same writer afterwards expresses his belief, that almost all the protracted cases would have been cured in one-half, or even one-third of the time, if a moderate course of mer- cury had been resorted to. In relation to the question before us, one ot the most important documents which I have met with is an official circular, signed by Sir James M'Grigor and Sir Wm. Franklin, from which it appears, that in 1,940 cases of primary venereal ulcerations on the penis, cured without mercury between December 1816 and December 1818, (including not only the more simple sores, but also a regular proportion of those with the most marked characters of syphilitic chancre), the ave- rage period taken up by the treatment, when bubo did not exist, was 21 days ; with bubo 45 days. (Hee Hen7ien's Military Surgery, 2nd ed. p. 545.) And it further appears, that during the period above specified, 2,827 chiincres, a more consider- able proportion of which were probably Huiiterian chancres, were treated with mercury, and that the average period required for the cure wiien there was no bubo, was 33 days ; with bubo, 50. As far, therefore, as a judgment can be formed from this official estimate, and no calculation is ever likely to be furnished on a larger or more impar- tial scale, the evidence tends to prove that primary sores may generally be cured rather sooner with- out than with the administration of mercury. But as practitioners are not obliged to restrict themselves either to the mercurial or non-mercu- rial practice, I am of opinion that the total rejec- tion of mercury is by no means justified by any facts yet before the profession, concerning the time requisite for the cure on either plan; because, as it is universally admitted that some cases are very tedious, unless mercury be given, neither reason nor experience will sanction the exclusive adoption of only one mode of practice, whether the back- wardness to heal exist or not. On the contraiy, so far as the consideration of time has weight, pru- dence and common sense teach us to diversify the treatment according to circumstances. But it may be inquired, since tlie backward disposition of a sore to heal cannot be known at first by its mere appearance, should the treatment begin with mercury or not? Now, although late writers dwell very much on the impossibility of judging of the nature of a sore by its look alone, one fact is cer- tain, that some ulcers on the penis have a clean appearance from their very commencement ; some cases are simple excoriations; ar.d others, though ill-conditioned, are so small that a fair chance oflFers itself of destroying every part of the disease with caustic. In all such cases I should never commence with mercury. With respect to phage- denic and sloughing chancres, repeated experience has convinced me that they are cases, in the first stage of which, at all events, mercury should always be avoided; and I believe with Mr. Guthrie, that when this is strictly done secondary symp- toms are rare. One sore of this kind was long ago pointed out by Mr. Pearson as not requiring mercury, and the attention of surgeons has been of late particularly directed to it by Mr. Bacut. " It is characterised by a great derangement of the general health, by a high state of inflammation of the part, by great local pain, and proceeds ra- pidly to the destruction of the parts. The situa- tion of this sore is most commonly in the angle between the prepuce and glans penis ; and those of a full habit of body, the young and the vigo- rous, are most liable to its attack. The most prompt and vigorous antiphlogistic means are necessary to arrest the progress of this sore ; and the blood taken away in these cases presents the usual in- flammatory appearances, frequently in a very higH degree. The exhibition of mercury iii this spe- cies of sore is highly mischievous, and produc- tive of the worst consequences ; nor does i^t often happen that secondary symptoms succeed, &c. (On Syphilis, p. 57.) With respect to chancres with a hardened base and margin, it certainly appears that many them healed tolerably fast without mercury ; but a proportion of them was tedious when that me- dicine was not employed. (See three cas s recorded in the work last quoted.) It may oe thought, however, that the official document, cir- culated by Sir James M'Grigor and bir W. ha u Franklin, tends to prove that, at all events, tliese