LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. 164 suppuration may yet be moderated by right treat- ment, and the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs preserved. But, if tho suppurative stage has already come on, much will depend upon the consideration, whether the matter has been origi- nally formed in the lachrymal sac, has lodged there a good while, and the sac is ready to burst, or whether there is actually an opening in the sac opposite that in the skin, or, lastly, whether the openings do not correspond. In the Jirst case, the suppuration yet admits of being regulated by judicious treatment, and the lachrymal sac can be punctured ; but, in the other circumstances, the management of the case is far more difficult, especially when the patient's health is not good. However, the surgeon should be careful not to disfigure the patient with a large scar; and the aim should be to prevent atony of the lachrymal puncta and ducts, and a consequent stillicidium lachrymarura. These are the least serious evils to be apprehended from mismanagement ; for, if the case be ill-treated, or neglected in the later stage of the suppurative process, necessarily attending a fistulous state of the sac, the lachrymal organs may be rendered quite useless, or even entirely destroyed, and the nasal duct obliterated, or ob- structed by the effect of caries. In some few instances, indeed, the whole lacrymal sac is destroyed, or will require to be so by art, as will be presently explained. It is always a favourable circumstance, when the tears are seen to issue from the fistulous opening with the mucus and pus, as it is a proof, that the absorption and conveyance of the tears into the lachrymal sac are established again ; and that now the only question is about the state of the nasal duct, which point cannot be determined, before the fistula is com- pletely healed, and the third period of the second stage is enfircly obviated. {Beer, Lehre von den Augenhr. b. i. p. 356—367.) In the first stage, the indication is to endea- vour to resolve the inflammation. " It is (as Dr. Mackenzie observes) by combating the inflam- mation, that we are to cure this disease, and not by attacking merely one, or even several of the symptoms. Dilatation, for instance, by the intro- duction of probes through the canals into the sac, and even into the nose, would only be subjecting the inflamed parts to a nev/ source of irritation, and might thus produce effects, which \yould render a complete cure difficult, if not impossible." On the contrarj', in the first stage. Dr. Mackenzie joins Beer in praise of antiphlogistic measures, "and the application of cold lotions to the part. In the second stage, when resolution is no longer practicable, emollient applications are the most beneficial, and all debilitating means are to be stopped, by the further use of which an incur- able blennorrhoea of the lachrymal sac would be likely to be induced. And, as soon as the sac is BO distended with mucus and matter, that the centre of the swelling begins to be soft, and a fluctuation is perceptible, the sac should be free y opened, so as to let its contents have a ready outlet. If, after this evacuation, there should be any deep-seated hardness of the lachrymal sac, Beer recommends the application of a camphor- ated hemlock poultice, Afterwards, the wound in the skin and sac is to have introduced into it little bit of lint, dipped in the vinous tincture of opium, over which dressing a piece of diachylon plaster may be placed. W hen under such treat- ment the suppuration diminishes, but a preter- natural secretion of mucus yet continues, Beer introduces into the wound every day a piece of int, on which is spread a little bit of the following intmont: Bntyri recentis insulsi, 3 ss. Hydrar- gyri nitrico-oxydi, gr. x. Tutiaj pt. gr. vj. M. And, on changing the dressings, some of the fol- owing lotion may be dropped into the inner can- thus, and injected lukewarm into the sac itself : ^ Subacetatis cupri, Potassa2 nitratis, Alumi- nis, a a gr. iii.—vj. Camphoraj tritaj gr. ij.—iv. Aqua; distillata; 3 ss. Solve et cola. Liquori co- lato adde Vini opii 5 j—5 ij- Aqu£e rosae 3 iv. M. Beer melts the three first articles together iu equal proportions, and terms the composition the lapis divimis, of which he makes the lotion, and then adds the other ingredients. When, by means of such treatment, the mucous secretion from the sac has been brought into a healthy state, and all the induration has subsided, the period has arrived for the surgeon to think of taking measures for the reestablishment of the passage through tho nasal duct, if it should not already have become pervious of itself, which, when the inflammation has been of a healthy kind, and the treatment judicious, very frequently happens. {Beer, Lehre, 4-c. b. i. p. 369. 371.) Chronic Blennorrlma of (he excreting Parts of the Lachri/mal Organs.—Dr. Mackenzie, whose essay contains a faithful account of Beer's opinions upon the present subject, describes the inflammation, with which this form of disease commences, as sel- dom considerable ; and in scrofulous patients, it is not iinfrequently quite disregarded, no advice being taken until the lachrymal sac is much distended with mucus. By means of pressure upon the bean- shaped tumour, caused by such distension of the sac, a quantity of puriform mucus is forced out of the puncta lachrymalia, and overflows the eye ; and so far are the lachrymal canals from being ob- structed, that, excepting when any return of in- flammation happens, they even absorb, and convey the tears into the sac. Pressure, however, will rarely make the contents of the sac pass through the nasal duct, on account of the thickened state of the mucous membrane, and therefore the nostril is ge- nerally very dry. " In the course of this tedious disease, the accumulated mucus varies much both in quantity and quality. For instance, the luucus accumulates more rapidly, and is much thicker after a good meal, than at other times. The se- cretion of it is very plentiful, but thinner than usual, when the patient continues long in a moist cold atmosphere. In this case the overflowing of the sac takes place so rapidly, that the compression of the orbicularis palpebrarum in the action of winking is sufticient to evacuate the sac through the canals to such a degree, that the whole surface of the eyeball is suddenly overflowed, and the puriform fluid runs down upon the cheek. After the patient has remained for a short time in a warm and dry atmosphere, the morbid secretion becomes sparing and ropy. We find, that this chronic blennorrhcEa almost completely disappears in many individuals during warm weather ; upon which the yet inex- perienced patient and the inexperienced surgeon per a f ire apt to express a great, but a premature joy, for, on the very first change to cold and^ wot weather, the disease most frequently returns. During chronic blennorrhoea, the lachrymal sac