S22 RECTUM, DISEASES OF, cible, witli a gurgling noise, and when tliis liad been effected, the entrance to the prolapsed rectum resumed its ordinary central position. In one of tliese cases the patient was a male, in the other a female ; in the first, of course, it was the recto- vesical fold, and in the second tlie recto-vaginal fold of peritoneum whicli had been protruded.] Cazises.—Prolapse of the rectum may originate from various causes :— 1. From circumstances tending to relax and weaken the parts which retain the rectum, or its inner membrane, in its situation. 2. From various kinds of irritation and pressure on the bowel itself, having the effect of increasing the powers by which it is liable to be forced out- ward. 3. From any disease or irritation in tlie adjacent parts affecting the rectum sympathetically. Hence, a prolapsus ani may be caused by long habitual crying, and great exertions of the voice ; violent coughing; sitting long at stool; hard dry fieces, and much straining to void them ; obstinate diarrhcea, in infants, kept up by dentition ; dy- sentery ; chronic tenesmus ; various diseases of the rectum itself; the abuse of aloetic medicines and emollient clysters; htemorrhoids; excrescences and thickenings of the inner membrane of the rectum; difficulty of making water; the efforts of parturi- tion; a calculus in the bladder; paralysis of the sphincter and levator ani. In general, the prolapsus takes place whenever the patients go to the water-closet, and, in some persons, it occurs wlienever they are in the erect position. Dupuytren correctly notices, that this disposition of the rectum is often connected with a debilitated, relaxed constitution, and ha;mor- rhoidal complaints. (Cfe. Chir., t. i. p. 158.) [Prolapsus may be associated with internal haemorrhoids; when this is the case there is no great difficulty in distinguishing the one condition from the other, the altered state of the lower part, where the hemorrhoids are situated, being strik- ingly contrasted with the upper part, which con- sists of the protruded coats of the bowel in a nor- mal and unaltered condition. Here the prolapsus is often the consequence of the piles, and the cure of the latter by operation will be accompanied by the cessation of the prolapsus.] The inconveniences vary in different cases.— Sometimes the bowel falls down only when the patient is costive, and he is expelling some hard- ened fajces; and when pushed up, it remains in its place till some accidental circumstance brings it down again. In some cases it may be returned; but the moment the patient begins to walk about, it descends again. In others, of long standing, the bowel becomes so fixed in its unnatural position, that it cannot be returned. Then it is apt to become inflamed from friction, exceedingly painful, and sometimes ulcerated. (See Drodie, Op. et vol. cit. p. 84.5.) Considering the degree of the disease, and the constriction by the sphincter, the symptoms are sometimes mild, the rectum generally bearing pres- sure, exposure to the air, and other kinds of ir- ritation, belter than any other bowel. Indeed, when the protrusion has continued a long while, the mucous mcmlirane of the bowel becomes co- vered with a kind of cuticle. But the urgency and danger of a prolapsus are greater, when the swelling is large, recent, and conjoined with violent pain, inflammation, and febrile symptoms. When complicated with strangulation, the consequences may be a stoppage of the fajces, severe pain, swel- ling, inflammation, and even gangrene. In short, all the evils may arise which attend strangulated hernia. The prognosis, therefore, varies according to the different degree, species, cause, and compli- cation of the disease. [The writer has never witnessed a case of true prolapsus accompanied with strangulation of the bowel by the sphincter, and believes it to be ex- ceedingly rare, if indeed it ever occurs. The cases of strangulation are cases of prolapsed and in- flamed internal hajmorrhoids. In prolapsus there is too much relaxation, not only of the coats of the bowel, but also of the sphincter for this to take place.] The recent small movable prolapsus ani, the cause of which admits of being at once removed, may be effectually cured. It should always be recollected, however, that when once the rectum has been affected with prolapsus, a tendency to protrusion from any slight occasional cause generally remains. The habitual prolapsus, which has ex- isted for years, and comes on whenever the patient goes to stool, is the case most difficult of relief. Treatment.—The treatment of prolapsus ani em- braces three principal indications:— 1. The speedy reduction of the prolapsed part. 2. The retention of the reduced bowel. 3. The removal and avoidance of the causes by which the disease has been induced. In general, when the case is recent, and the tumor not of immoderate size, the reduction may be accomplished with tolerable ease, by putting the patient in a suitable posture, v/ith the buttocks raised, and the thorax depressed, and by making gentle and skilful pressure, either with the palm of the hand or fingers. When difficultj-^ is experi- enced, the patient, if young or robust, may be bled, and the part fomented. The large intestines may be emptied by means of a mild unirritating clyster, and half an ounce of the oleum ricini should be exhibited. In the habitual prolapsus ani, the pa- tient himself is generally accustomed to reduce the part, or it goes up of itself when he lies down. When, however, the inflammation and swelling are urgent, there is a difference of opinion about the treatment, many writers stating that the part ought on no account to be irritated by repeated attempts at reduction, and advising recourse to the anti- phlogistic plan, especially leeches, fomentations, or cold washes, the exhibition of mild aperients, such as the oleum ricini, and not attempting reduction until the swelling has been lessened. When the reduction is prevented by a spasmodic resistance, the use of an anodyne poultice, or fomentations, a clyster of the same quality, the warm bath, and the internal use of opium, are recommended. Should the complaint not give way to the preced- ing remedies, nor admit of reduction, and the symp- toms become more and more pressing, perhaps the constriction should be obviated by dividing the sphincter with a bistoury, an operation sanctumed by Chelius. (//awrfi. Jer Chir. b. i. p. 775.) Cases are recorded, in which the protruded part, either in the state of gangrene, or of chronic hard- ness, thickening and elongation was removed with a knife or ligature. (See CheMcn s Anatomy, <5 c. 1741; Kerstens, Histnria Sedijjrroetdtue. re- scctionefulkiter sanalai, Kilon. 17/9; WItatcly, tn