tematised more recently by Mr. Tliomns VVakley. Ill the treatment of a iiainnv stricture by this iiietliod, a very small catheter is iirst carefully passed into the bladder. Into the end of this a small steel rod is screwed, and the whole forms what is termed the urethral guide, which serves as an axis over which another instrument, con- sisting of a straight silver tube, is passed through the stricture ; so that the route being at first cor- rectly taken, all future efforts will to a certainty be made in the same direction, and with greater ease than if the first, or " uretliral guide," were not present. _ The same principle directs every step of the dilating process, each succeeding instrument being slipped through the stricture over that which had been originally introduced. The names of De- sault, Plutton of Dublin, and Biiciianan of Glas- gow, are associated with the early history of this plan. An objection has been generally admitted to lie against all the instruments at present described, on the ground of that abrasion of the urethral mucous membrane, which the passing of a sound or catheter through a stricture with any degree of difficulty must tend to produce; and "it equally applies to the sliding tubes just described, how- ever accurately and smoothly they may be finished by the maker, since with all some amount of force is necessarily expended in a longitudinal direction on the walls of the canal, and a propor- tional degree of effect must be produced. Hence it has occurred to many surgeons to contrive ap- paratus which, being introduced with ease into the contracted part, should admit of being ex- panded there, and thus act by eccentric dilatation only, v/ithout the risk of injuring by friction. Among tiiein Dr. James Arnott may be named as endeavouring to accomplish this by fluid pressure. He constructed a varnished silk tube, lined with gut, and having passed it through the contraction, distended it with air, water, or mucilaginous fluid, by means of a syringe connected with it. Mr. Luxmonr attempted, nearly half a century ago, to supply the desideratum by employing a metallic instrument witii four blades, which, by means of a screw, were made to expand, in sitit, to any extent required, in four opposite directions. Many years later, Leroy d'Etiolles adopted the same principle in the construction of some dilating instruments ; and, more recently, M. Peneve, of Paris, attempted to fulfil the same object by an in- strument formed of two blades united at the ex- tremity, wiiich, by means of a screw, can be separated from each other after they have passed into the stricture. By these and by similar methods the attempt to gradually dilate the urethra from within outwards has been at various times attempted. Of late years Mr. Holt has employed Perreve's instrument to treat a tight stricture by forcible iii- Btantaneoiis rupture of the contracted portion of the un^thra. IJis mode of proceeding is as fol- lows :—Having introduced the apparatus through and bey(jnd the stricture, which may be sujipoaeil capable at moat of admitting a No. he at once slides down a tube of the size of No. 10, which, with the expanded blades, opens the stricture to at least No. 12. This operation often requires very considerable force. The instrument is then with- drawn, and a No. 10 catheter is readily pass-d vur,. n. 833 URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. into the bladder, and at onco removed. Some bleeding takes place at the time, and continues for a few hours, rarely more than twenty-four but only to a slight extent. The stream is at once considerably improved ; and there appears to be rarely any subsequent fever. Mr. Holt pa.sses a No. 10 on the second day after the operation ; on the fifth or sixth ; then once a week for two or three weeks ; then once a fortnight ; and, lastly once a month. The plan has now been largely tried; it has been proved to give rise very rarely indeed to fatal consequences, and the primary re suits are unquestionably good. How far it will compare m durability of result with other means has yet to be shown. Believing the principle of dilating from within outwards to be the best under certain conditions I have myself adopted it in the following mannk i he principle of its application is, that organic stricture IS ordinarily situated in that part of the urethra (the bulbous) which is naturally the lar/rest Its calibre being double that of the external mea- tus. Hence no dilatation which is limited bv the meatus is adequate to restore' the calibre of the strictured part._ Using an instrument composed of wo blades, a given part of which may be separated 0 any extent by means of a screw, I am enabled to distend or rupture the strictured urethra, and not the remaming part of the urethra, up to its original size, nearly closing the blades again before hey can be withdrawn. I think, on the whole, that a combination of this proceedin.^—or that oF rupture, if preferred-with a previously made slight mcsion of the part performed, as Jl be de- scribed under the head of InternIl UuetLio- TOMV, aftords perhaps the most efficient and per- manent treatment for a really obstinate strictur in concluding this section of my subiect I am compelled to add that, after all, b/fc he gre.ate" number of strictures, even of the most trouWesome and obstinate forms, are quite amenable to care- fully managed dilatation, either simple or con- inuous and that t is very rarely incumbent on us to resort to operative procedures of any kind It IS necessary to attend to the health and to the ex- ternal condition of the patient, but with s^h precautions with care and gentleness of manipX t.on, and he use of the most unirritating k nd of instrument, a very few cases only wilf require other treatment. Sometimes we a^e aided b? tl e use of anodynes and sedatives. Occasional^ ' induenceofchlorolorm has facilitated the pals of a cat eter or of a bougie through the u th^ especially when it is more than ordinarily sS tive and the pain occasioned by instrumemal - ence produces uncontrollable and involuntaly effoi s of resistance on the part of tlie natie, ? But It IS not for the purpose of permit i g^t t strument to be used with greater force than b 4re but in order to produce relaxation of the nu scu issues, both of the voluntary and invol nt ' kmds, that the chloroform is administered, an ,^ must, of course, be given to a suflicient extent to ensure this result. oaiciii lo After all, however, a few cases exist for which dilatation is an inadequate treatment. Either tho contraction re-appears, and that so rapidly, that in order to mamtani a canal sufficiently pa en "n ■"Strument must be passed every other day or even oftei.er, and thus the patient is subjected to perpetual treatment, and to tiie discomforts cmU- •3 H