OPHTHALMOSCOPE disadvantage that their foci are ver)- small and iKUTow, and, therefore, are lost by the least move- 395 inont of the eye, and that with increasing strength (if the lens, the intensity of the light for ths c'bserved eye is increased. In the description ul' the several ophtlialmoscopes, it lias been already stated that numbers of convex glasses should be used with eacli. In this method of examination the short-sighted observer can approach nearer than the far-sighted, and it will be advantageous for the latter to ap- proximate his eye to the image by the use of a weak convex ocular glass. If the eye examined be blind, it can only be determined experimentally whether an)- or what lenses will be required. The inverted image may be magnified by a second convex lens. The rays from the inverted image reach the observer slightly divergent, but by a second lens tliey may be rendered less divergent, and will appear as if they came from the direction of a continuation of this less divergent course, and from a point nearer to the eye of the patient, de- termined by the intersection of the peripheral rays. The arrangement of the combination of two lenses necessary to obtain a highly-magnified image, nsay be, according to Stellwag, by a combi- nation of two convex lenses behind the opening of the mirror, so that the anterior will bring the in- verted diminished image within the focal distance of the second. The enlargement will be very considerable, and the object will be seen inverted, as its inversion by the first lens will be left un- altered by the second. Or, by placing before the observed eye a convex lens of shorter focal length than its focal distance fro.n the hinder surface of the mirror, and looking at the inverted image thus produced through another convex lens placed behind the mirror, and of a focal length greater than its distance from the image formed by the first lens, the enlargement will be more considerable, the greater is the focal length of the first lens (so long as this is less than the distance between the two), and the greater the magnifying power of the second. Or, by placing before the observed eye a convex lens, and intercepting the convergent rays return- ing from it by a concave lens behind the mirror. In this case the convex lens must have a focal distance greater than the sum of the distance be- tween the lenses added to the focal distance of the concave. In order to obtain considerable enlargement of the inverted image of a myopic eye, Liebreich proceeds as follows : He holds a convex lens of greater focal length than the distance for which the examined eye is adjust'd, at a somewhat greater distance in front of it than the focal length of the lens. The refracting media of the eye then form an image in the plane of the distance for which the eye is accommodated; and this already strongly magnified image is seen through a glass, the power of which is, indeed, very limited, since the object is too far within its focu-i, but which can at once remove the image of the iris, and en- large the field of vision. Let it be supposed that the examined eye has a myopia = ^, so that its far point is at a distance of only 3"; and that a lens of about 4" focus is held about i" or 5" in front of it. There will then be a highly magnified inverted im:igo of tiie fundus, distant 3" from the eye itself, and ]}" or 2" from the lens. By the latter, on the one hand, the imago is enlarged, and, on the other, the in- verted image of the iris is projected in a larger size and at a greater distance, so that it does not con- fine the field of ophthalmoscopic vision. The distance at which the observer must place himself will depend partly upon his own accommodation, and partly upon the strength and position of the lens and the position of the image—matters that can be easily determined by trial. It will be found, without reference to exact accommodation for the image, that the observer cannot depart much from a certain definite distance without diminution of the field of vision. Everything situate at, or within the principal focus of the eye examined, may be seen erect with the mirror alone. Thus the .retina of an emme- tropic or hypermetropic eye, a detached retina, and an intraocular morbid growth or foreign substance, may be seen in their natural positions without an object-lens. Everything situated beyond the principal focus of the eye, such as the retina of a myopic eye, or the bottom of a deeply excavated nerve disc, may be seen inverted with the mirror alone. Every- thing situpted at, or not much within the focus, may be seen inverted by the interposition of a convex lens. The inverted image appears to move in a direction contrary to that of the movement of the head of the patient or of the observer, and in the same direction as the movement of the convex lens. The erect image appears to move with the head of the patient or the observer. By this difference the two can be distinguished apart at a glance. In order to understand clearly the effect of the inversion, it is well to take a piece of thin writing-paper, and to draw upon it a circle to re- present the fundus of the left eye of a person placed opposite to the spectator. The circle may Su. be surrounded by the letters Na. Te. so ar- In. ranged as to indicate the superior, inferior, tempo, ral, and nasal boundaries of the figure. To the nasal side of the centre a small circle may be drawn for the optic disc, with lines radiating chiefly towards the temporal side, to represent the blood-vessels. The sketch, as it stands, will give an idea of the erect image, with its temporal side to the right of the spectator, and the vessels passing to the right. If the piece of paper be turned bottom upwards with the written side still towards the spectator, the ordinary conditions of the inverted image will be fulfilled, and the inver- sion of all parts will be complete. If the paper, still upside down, be now turned with the written side away from the spectator, and held towards the light, the eifect will be like the inversion produced by the first form of Laurence's reflecting ophthalmoscope or by the auto-ophthalmo- scopes of Heymann and Giraud-Fenlon. The figure is_ still inverted, but the spectator is placed behind it, and the position of his right hand is changed with regard to it ; hence the vessels pass from his left to his right, as in the erect image, while the upper parts are seen below and vice vcrsd. The simple experiment described wiL m.'iko this clear in a moment. The companitivu uses of the two methods of examination may be stated in the following manner ;