TUMOR. 804 Schuh, Patli. u. Thcrap. d.Pscudo- silting g\e. Wien, 1851. .^^ , — plasinen. Wien, 1854. H. Lebert. Trailed'Anat. path KtSn. et special. Folio, avec planches. Paris, 1855. Forster, Handb. d. Mg. path. Anat., 1855. Ver- neitil, Quelques propositions sur les Fibr6mcs, avec des remarques sur la nomenclature des tiimeurs : Mdm. de la Society de Biolosie, annee |8d5. Vr. E. Gurlt, Ueber die Cystengesclvwulste des Raises, 8vo. Berlin, 1855- , M.D., Die Knochcngeschwulste, fol. Bonn, Sofa. JJecJc, Klin. Beitrage z. H'^l^lo^'e ^ \e.apie d. Pseudoplasmen. Freiburff, 1857. J-^l^^f-^R^^'': l.utions to the Practical Surgery o/^Ne^^ growths or Tumours: Guy's Hospt. Repts. 18a7 and foUowins ycSr Billroth, Die EintheiUmg, D.ns. u. Prog der Geschwulste von chir.-klin. Slandpunktc: Deutsche Klinik, 1859. Robin, Divers M^moires in Diet, de M.5decine de Nysten, art. Tumeurs, etc. Bokitanshy, Lehrbuch der path. .Anat., 3te Aufiase. Wien, 1861. E. Follm, Traits de Path. eKterne, t. i. 8vo. Paris, 1861. R. Virchow, Die Cel- lular-Path. Berlin, 1862. Die krankhaften Geschwul- ste. Dr. Sarazin, Notes pour servir a I'etude des Tumeurs. Strasburg, 1864. E. mu(IJlersc/t, LehTb. d. path. Gewebslehre, 1866. P. Broca, lrait<5 des Tu- meurs. Paris, 1866. V. Brmis, Lehrb. d. Chir. Vr. Jug. Billroth, Chir. Path. u. Therap., 1866. Dr. Liicke, Pitha u. BilUoth's Hb. d. allg. n. speciellen Chir. b. ii., 1867. /. Althaus, M.D., On the Electio- lytic Treatment of Tumours, 8V0. Lond. 1867. Jo/m C. Warren, Surgical Obs, on Tumours, with Cases and Operations, 8vo. Boston, 1837. Robert Luton, Elements of Surgery, and On Practical Surgery, Svo. Lond. 1837. Valentin, Repert. f. Anat. und Phvs 8V0. 1837. L. Porta, Dei Tumori follic. se- bacei.' Milano, 1856. C. Thiersch, \iM Epithelial- krebs Leipzig, 1865. K. Koester, Die Entwicklung d. Carcinome u. Sarcome. Wiirzburg, 18G9. The reader will find references to books on special tumors in the Bibliography at the end of the arti- cles on " Cancer," " Dis. of Mammary Gland," &c.J TUMORS OF THE EYELIDS.—[Cvsts in the skin are often observed, especially m elderly people. They appear as little, watery- looking, roundish tumors, single or in groups, along the outer edge of the lid. Some reach the size of a hemp-seed. The milium is a small, yellowish white and opaque tumor (nodule), of the consistence of car- tilage, projecting among the eyelashes, from the margin of the tarsus. Several milia are generally present simultaneously. On minute examination, we find the milium consists of concentric layers of cells. , Treatment.—Cy&i and milia have been removed successfully for reasons of appearance, or on account of their irritating tlie cornea. The same applies to warts. The MOLLUSCim (glandiform, albuminous tumor) is more whitish than the milium. Its surface is shining, sliglitly nodular, and projects from the skin, which over the large one is some- what vascular. It may reach the size of a large pea. When squeezed, some milky fluid escapes tlirough a small opening on its surface. It occurs frequently in children, together with other ones in the skin of the lips, nose, &c., and is believed to ho the result of a change caused through some animalcule having become lodged lU a sebaceous follicle. J. .J Treatment.—a cataract knife, we divide tlie little tumor into lateral halves, then nip it well with a forceps, or between the thumb nails, and thus squeeze out the halves of a whitish, nodular, solid substance. The empty bag of loose skin is left. Return of the tumor has occurred, if it has not been squeezed out thoroughl,v. All present about face or lids should be removed at one ^ ^. The molluEcum can always be removed in thi's manner; not so the milium. Tarsal Tumor.—(Encysted tarsal tumor, cysts in the tarsus, chalazion.)—One or several tumors may occur in the same eyelid. They are the result of morbid changes of the glands within the tarsus, and are often preceded by inflammation. (Sties). The tumor is usually situated near tiie inner surface of the tarsus, sometimes with few granulations round an opening of perforation in the adjoining conjunctiva. But even when projecting from the anterior surface of the tarsus and bulging the skin, can its position readily be recognised, on everting the eyelid, by a darkish grey red spot on the inner aspect of the eyelid, covered with abnormally vascular conjunctiva, indicating the place where the tarsus covering it is thinnest. Treatment.—Derangement of the functions of the eyelid or of the cornea, or reasons of personal ap- pearance, may require the removal of the tumor by operation. If several are present, they should be re- moved at the same time. The patient seated in a chair rests his head against the operator's chest (who stands behind). The hands and eyelids of the patient must be secured. The tumor is not removed through the-skin ; but through the conjunctiva, by everting the eyelid, and with a narrow pointed knife making an incision through tiie abnormally vascular conjunctiva and through the grey red thinner portion of the tarsus. The knife, if the cyst is near the anterior surface of the tarsus, may have to pass through the entire thickness of the tarsus. The texture of the tarsus being very dense, some force has often to be used, to carrj' the in- strument through it, into the tumor. The incision made parallel with the margin of the lid should be equal in length to the greatest diameter of the tumor, as felt through the skin. A cross incision is sometimes necessary if the tumor is large. Generally some serum, pus, or grey gelatinous substance escapes at once. A small scoop is then carried along the surface of the tumor, with a view to separate the bulk of it from the surrounding tarsus. If this should not succeed, or the contents be fluid throughout, then the scoop is turned rapidly about, to break away the gelatinous contents from the walls of the cavity. This must be continued until all appears to have escaped. Blood frequently fills the cavity, and the tumor often appears even larger than before the operation. This merely re- tards the recoverj'. Through not having removed all the contents, we are sometimes compelled to use the scoop a second or third time ; which does not occur, if the operation is performed thoroughly at first. Cold water dressing is applied to the lids, for a few days. , r . Sometimes ten weeks elapse before the tumor or the hardness have disappeared completely. No second operation should be performed, as long as the tumor gets smaller. „ , , ■ The SEBACEOUS tumor is generally observed m children. It is congenital, and almost always situated beneath the skin, near the outer and upper margin of the orbit. It sometimes reaolics the size of a small walnut, and if large is in part adherent to the skin. The latter usually has its natural colour, sometimes it is vascular where the tumor is adherent ; in rare cases a small opening in the skin leads into the tumor, which, when pressed open, gives vent to some sebaceous matte r of nnule.asant smell. Tlio matter is enclosed