SURGERY. gulshed from nil those of his time, inasmucli as the ancients are not looked up to in them with super- stitious blindness. Freed from the yoke of an- t lority, he submitted everything to the test of observation, and acknowledged experience alone ns bis guide. The French writers are with reason proud ot their countryman Pard to this day: they allege that he must ever hold amongst surf^eons the same place that Hippocrates occupies amongst physicians. Nay, they add that perhaps none of the ancients or moderns are worthy of being compared with him. (Richerand, Nosogr. Chirurg. t \ ) After the death of this great man, su^ery, which owed Its advancement to him, continued Bt.-.tionary, or even took a retrograde course, i his circumstance is altogether ascribable to the contemptible state into which those who professed the art fell, after being united to the barbers by tbe most disgraceful association. Pigrai, the successor of Ambroise Par^, was lar from being an adequate substitute for him A spiritless copier of his master, he abridged his surgery m a Latin work, where the unaffected graces of the original, the sincerity, and the inef- table charm, inseparable from all productions of genius, entirely disappeared. He received, how- ever, equal praise from his contemporaries; doubt- less because he filled a high situation: but, as Kicherand remarks, his name, which is to-dav almost forgotten, proves sufficiently, that dimities do not constitute glory. Rousset and Guillemeau distinguished them- selves, however, in the art of midwifery while Covillard, Cabrol, and Habicot, enriched surgery with a geat number of new observations. (See Obs. Chir. pleines de Remarques ciirieuses. Lyon, 10,39, in 8vo. Alp/iabelAnatomigue. Geneve, I6O2' in 4to. Semaine Anaiomiquc; Question Chir. sur la Bronchotomie. Paris, 1620, in fivo.) In the next or seventeenth century, a fresh im- pulse produced additional improvements. Then appeared in Italy Cajsar Magatus, who simplified the treatment of wounds (Z)e Rari. Vuherum Me.- dicahone libri 2. Venet. 1616, in folio); Fabricius ab Aquapendente, even less praiseworthy as a sur- gnon than as a physiologist {Opera Chir. Paris, 161.., m folio), and Marcus Aurelius Severinus that restorer of active surgery. {De Efficaci Mc- <hcina \\hx\ Z. Francofurti, 1613, in folio. Dc rfcondiia Abscessuiim Natura libri 7. Neapoli, I6;j2, in 4to.;and Trimemhris Chirur(iia,&c. Fran- cofurti, 165,3, in 4to.) Amongst the English sur- geons flourished Wiseman, who was the Parg of iMigland (see Several Chirurgical Treatises, Lond. 1670, in fol ); ,^nd William Harvey, whose dis- covery of the circulation of the blood had such an influence over the advancement of medical science Jn general. (See Exercilalio Atmiomica dc Motii Cordis ct Sangidnis in Animal.dms. Francofurti 16.53, in 4to.) In Germany, Fabricius Hildanus' \OI>s. ct Cunitionitm Centurim G, 2 vols, in 4to. 1641), who was far superior, as a surgeon, to the Italian Fabricius; Scultetus, so well known for his work, entitled Armamenlarinm Chirurgicmn (Ul- ma;, 16.53, in folio); and Purmann and Solinnen who h,nd the fault of being too partial to the use of niinicrniis complicated instruments. (See Cursw Ol's. Chir. Lipsia;, 1710, in 4to. Manualc OLs Uarurgujc. Amsterdam, 1 6fi4, in 4to.) Il<)lland, restored to liberty by the generous exertions of its inhabitants, did not lontr remahi ViJI.. II, 657 a stranger to the improvement of surgery Tliis nation, so singul.ir in many respects, presents us with one particularity, which claims the notice of a medical historian. Ruysch, who was an emi- nent anatomist, and merits equal celebrity for his 04*. Anatomico-Chirurgicartcm Cenluriaii (Amste- lodami, 1691, in 4to,), carried with him to the gr.-ive the secret of his admirable injections. (See also his Thesaur. Anal, x., in 4to. Adversariorum ana- tomicorum medico-chirurgicorum, Decad. 3, in 4to. Amstelodami.) Roonhuysen also made a secret of his lever, which, before the invention of the forceps, was the only resource in difficult labours Haw who successfully cut fifteen hundred patients for the stone, took such pains to conceal his man- ner of operating, that Heister and Albinus, his two most distinguished pupils, have each given a dif- ferent explanation of it. Such a disposition, which IS extremely hurtful to the advancement of medi- cal and surgical knowledge, would materially have retarded the progress of surgery in Holland, had pot Camper, in the following centurj-, effaced the imputation by the great number of his discoveries, and his zealous desire to render them public. yVhde great improvements were going on in Italjr England, and Holland, surgery languished in a humiliated state in France. The accoucheur Mauriceau {Traite dcs Maladies des Fcmmes grosses. Paris, 1668, in 4to.), Dionis {Conrsd^Opi- raiwns de Oiirurgie. Paris, 1707, 8vo.), Saviard (Nouveau Recueil d^Qbs. Chir. Paris, 1702, in 2mo.),and TieWo^te {Chirurgien d'HSpital. Paris, 109C, in 8vo.j were the only French surgeons of note, who could be contrasted with so many dis- tinguished men of other nations. Richerand observes, that the splendid days of Louis the Fourteenth were an iron age for discouraged sur- gery. And yet this monarch seems to have been personally interested in the melioration of this im- portant art; for he was very nearly falling a victim to a surgical disease, a fistula in ano, and not cured till after a great number of blundering operations, and useless experiments. In the last century, amongst the distinguished surgeons of France, there are two of extraordinary genius, round whom, as it were, all the otheis might be grouped and arranged, and whose names deserve to be affixed to the two most brilliant epochs of French surgerj-. These are J. L. Petit whose glory was shared by the Academy of Sur- gery; and the celebrated Desault. of the Royal Academy of Surgery, of which he was one of the first and most distinguished mem- bers, represents him as blending the study of anatomy with his amusements when a boy and ardently seeking every opportunity to increase his knowledge by observation. He had had exper . ence enoi^h to publish at an early period of his life h.s_ Ircnte sur ks Maladies des Os. (Paris, 1705, in 12mo.), a work which, for a century was esteemed the best upon the subject. His sue cess was most virulently opposed by envious cri- tics; and It was not till alter more than thirty years of academical labours and extensive practice that ho was unaiiiinously chosen the head of his' associ.-itos. This acknowledged superiority, how- ever, was the more flattering, as the honour was ohtained at a period when surgery was in a fiourish ing state in France, and when Petit held no office from which ho could derive miy influence uncon-