422 OVARIOTOMY willi percliloride of iron, the slough is tanned; it becomes as hard and dry as a piece of leather, and there is an end to that objection. It is said to cause suppuration about the wound, but this again hap- pens quite as frequently, in proportion, after the ligature or cautery. The writer never saw more profuse suppuration of the stitches than in one case where he divided the pedicle with the ecraseur, and closed the wound with platinum wire sutures. Then, after the wound is closed, it is said to lead to a re-opening each month, and an escape of some menstrual fluid; and this is true in some, perhaps in nearly a third, of the cases. But if the patient be prepared for it, it is not of the slightest consequence. The Fallopian tube contracts completely after a few months, and there is no further escape. The fact that it does escape sometimes is an argument in favour of the clamp; for if menstrual fluid can es- cape through the partially closed Fallopian tube fixed in the cicatriced wound, so it may escape if the tube be left within the peritoneal cavity, and the result may be a fatal hsematocele. The writer has known this to occur in cases where the liga- ture was used and cut off short, and also after the cautery ; and he believes it to be one of the strongest objections to these methods, or to any intra-peritoneal method of dealing with the pedicle. As to any fancied impediment to the increase of the uterus in pregnancy and to its contraction during labour, from the adhesion of the tube to the cicatrix, the writer can say that ten of his patients Have had children after ovari- otomy—two of them two children—and there was no such complaint in any one case. One real ob- jection to the clamp is that it may possibly pull on or strangulate intestine (and the writer has seen such a case). But this objection is of little weight if the use of the clamp be restricted to cases where the pedicle is so long that there is not much drag on the clamp. In such cases no better method could be devised. But where there is a broad, thick, short pedicle, or a broad connection between uterus and cyst rather than a distinct pedicle, then one of the other methods of treating the pedicle should be preferred. When dividing the pedicle and separating the cyst the utmost care must be taken to prevent any of the contents of the cyst entering the abdominal cavi ty. Should this have happened notwithstanding all the'precautions taken to avoid it, the cavity must be carefully sponged and cleaned of all extraneous substance with soft sponges wrung out of warm water. The omentum, the mesentery, and the situations of the adhesions to the anterior abdominal wall will often be found the seat of htemorrhage, either from the orifices of large vessels or from capillary oozing. The bleeding must be stopped by tying the vessels with ligatures, the ends of which are to be cut off close to the knot, or by torsion, or by the pressure of a needle passed across. Before closing the wound the opposite ovary is to be examined. If diseased, it must be with- drawn, its vessels secured, and the diseased organ cut away. If healthy, it is left undisturbed. If small cysts are seen on its surface they may be punctured. The next step will be to close the wound. In the early practice of the writer this was done by passing gilded hare-lip pins through the whole thickness of the abdominal wall at intervals of an inch. Each toneum about halt an inch, from the incision on either side; so that when the two opposed surfaces were pressed together upon the pin, two layers of the peritoneum were in contact with each other. Instead of the hare-lip pins sutures are now used. Different materials have been tried for this pur- pose—hemp, twine, silk, silver and steel wire, telegraph wire coated with gutta-percha, and strong horse-hair. After repeated comparative trials thin strong Chinese silk has been found superior to the other materials. The most con- venient manner of applying the sutures is the following. Silk about eighteen inches in length is threaded at each end on a strong straight needle. Each needle is introduced from within outwards through the peritoneum and the whole thickness of the abdominal wall at the same dis- tances as when the hare-lip pins were used. The ends of the sutures are held by the assistant who holds up the lips of the wound, until all the deep sutures have been applied. Then the lips of the wound are held apart again, in order that the operator may convince himself that no further bleeding has taken place within the abdominal cavity, which, if required, has to be sponged again. This done, the sutures are tied, and the ends of the threads cut off. If the abdominal wall is very thick, superficial sutures will be re- quired between the deep ones. If the pedicle has been secured by the clamp, a suture should be passed close to the latter, in order to bring the lips of the wound so accurately around the pedicle that the peritoneal cavity is perfectly closed. The inclosing of the peritoneum within the stitches is of the utmost importance for the success of the operation. The two peritoneal laj'ers adhere to- gether very rapidly. At the post-mortem examina- tion of patients who died after thirty-six hours the edges of the peritoneal incision have been found firmly united by first intention. Thus pus and other secretions from the wound are prevented from entering the peritoneal cavity, adhesion of the omentum or intestine to any part of the inner aspect of the wound not covered by peritoneum is prevented, and such firm union is secured that n ventral hernia scarcely ever occurs after recovery. After the closure of the wound, that part of the abdomen which has been exposed is carefully dried and cleaned, the india-rubber cloth removed, and the wound covered with folded lint and sup- ported by long strips of adhesive plaster. In most cases the false ribs had been pressed outwards by the tumor, and after its removal a deep hol- low is left. This must be filled up with pads of cotton-wool. The patient is then gently removed on her bed, where a flannel belt is adjusted around her abdomen. She is kept on her back, her knees supported by a pillow, is covered with light but warm blankets, and provided with hot-water bottles, if she is at all chillj^ The general principles of the afier-trealnicnt are to secure extreme quiet, comfortable warmth to induce gentle perspiration, and perfect cleanliness of the patient. The catheter is used every six hours during three or four days after the ope- ration, until the patient can move witliout pain. Pain is alleviated by enemas of laudanum, and sickness generally yields to icod water, sod.vwater, &c. Should sickness continue, enemas ot beet-tea with brandy every two to four hours m most viiu auuuniiiiai wau ill iiuuivaio ui <ui xji.vi. ..ii... j - . i n • i • pin perforated the skin about an inch, and the peri- cases prove efficacious, and are aiso ueututiai lu