tered, one writer siigirests the plan of first opening tlie cyst, washing out its contents, and then injecting into it a thin mixture of sulphate of liuie, which will immediately harden, and facilitate the excision of the cyst. {hl'G/iie, in Ed. A fed. Jourii. No. Ixxvi.) This proposal, though inge- nious, is not likely to be adopted, because the ope- ration, which is generally easy enough without it, would thus be rendered long and complex. I shall conclude the subject of tumors with a few observations, delivered by Sir Astley Cooper and Professor Langenbeck. "The removal of encysted tumors (the first gentleman observes) is not entirely unattended with danger. I have seen three instances of severe erysipelatous in- flammation succeed the operation of removing these swellings upon the head, and, I believe, it is owing to the tendon of the occipito-frontalis being wounded in the attempt to dissect them out whole." (Surgical Essaj/s, part ii. p. 241.) I have witnessed several fatal cases of the same kind. [Doubtless, the most trifling surgical operations are sometimes followed by erysipelas, but we are not awaie that the removal of an encysted tumor of the scalp is more likely to be followed by that dis- ease than operations in other parts. "We consider that the above remarks, by a surgeon of such grent repute, are calculated to excite unnecessary alaim] In the extirpation of tumors about the neck, Langenbeck adopts the following rules : he makes a free division of the integuments, and dissects the muscles from the tumor, which lie over it, but he avoids cutting through, or in- juring them ; in this manner, the swelling is ren- dered more moveable. By the situation of the muscles, he is then enabled to know the place of the chief blood-vessels ; and, on this account, he particularly advises young surtreons to study my- ology with the greatest care. It is indeed an im- portant advantage after a muscle has been ex- posed, to know what vessels lie at its edges, or underneath it. Thus, the sartorius is a sure guide to the crural artery, and the sterno-cleido mastoideus to the carotid. A surgeon who knows correctly the anatomy of the parts, will not be in danger of wounding unintentionally any large vessel. When the surface of the tumor has been cleared, but the base of it is yet firmly attached, Lanjjeiibeck commences the separation on the side which presents the least risk, that is, where the least considerable blood-vessels are, and thence he proceeds, by degrees, towards the most hazard- ous side. In favour of this method, he offers the following considerations : if, by chance, an artery, requiring a ligature, should be cut, it can now be more easily secured, as tlie base of the tumor is already partly detached. The loosened swelling may also be drawn away from the large vessels with the hand, or a tenaculum. Langenbeck never introduces the knife deeply, when there are large blood-vessels there, but pulls the swelling outward,and then divides the cellular tissue, thus stretched, which is situated upon the already ex- posed portion of the tumor. In this manner, the swelling can always be drawn more and more away from the vessels, until, at last, there is no danger of wounding them. By attending to these principles, Langenbeck has succeeded in remov- ing many very large tumors from the neck, whore nearly all the muscles of that part were cx- lUR. 803 posed by the dissection, and the carotid denuded. After one of these operations, not only the styloid process could be felt, but all the muscles origin- ating from it could be distinctly seen. {DM. fiir die Chir., b. ii. p. 312, &c. 12ino. GoUingen, 1800.) John Birkeit. BTBLtoanAPHY.—See the articles Cancer, Exosto- sis, Funffus, Hjematodes, Jaw, Mamma, Testis, &c. C. G. Stcntxel, De Steatomatibus in Prlncino Aortas repertis et Cysticis in Geiiere excrescentibus. v\ it- tersb. 1723. J. J. Plenck, Novum Systema Tumo- rum, goo hi morbi in sua genera et species redigun- tur. Pars prior. 12mo. Viennae, 1767. Wm. Ogle, Letter concernina: tlie Cure of encysted and oilier kinds of Tumours without the Knife, 8vo. Lond. 17.1+. ^icrne^i/V Surgical Works. Ph. Tr. Walther, Ueber die aneebohrnen Fettbautaeschwiilste und andere Bilduugsfehler, fol. Lanilshut, 1814. J. P. Weidmann, Annotatio ile Steatomatibus, 4to. Ma<;un- tiaci, 1817. W. Hey, Practical OOs. in Surgery, p. 5\7, ed. 2. 8vo. Lond. 1810. Allan Burns, Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, 8vo. Hdin. isll. This work contains much valuable information re- specting the extirpation of sweilinjfs about the neck. Sc/treger, Chiruraische Versuche, b. i. p. 297; Uelier Lipoma und lixtirpitio derselben, 8vo. Nurn- berg, 1811. Meckel, J. F., Haorib. d. path. Anat. Leipzig, 1812. John Baron, An Inquiry, illustrating the Nature of Tuberculated Accretions of Serous Membranes, and the Origin of Tuliercles and Tu- mours in diflferent Textures of the Body, gvo. Lond. • 819. Also Illustrations of the Inquiry, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1822. iSir Astley Co/.per, Surgical Essavs, partii.; and Med. Chir. Trac.s.'vol. ii. C. J. Al. Langenbeck, Bibl. fiir die Chir , b. ii. p. 312. Gott., IS08. Also Geschichtpeinergrossen Speckseschwulst, welche init dera Unterkiefer so fest zusamraenhing, dass die Trenuunff iiiit der Sa^e vcrrichtet werden musste: Neue Bibl. b. i. p..293. l2mo. Hanover, 1817. B. a. Jaciihsen, L)e Turaoribus Cysticis, 4lo. Jenis, 1792. U. G. Ludicig^ Monitrt de exscindendis, Tu- monbus l unica inclusi-s 4to. Lips. 1758. R. Liston, Cases of large Tumours in the Scrotum ami Labium, removed by Operation; see lidin.Med. Journ. No. 77. Armstrong's Morbid Anatomy of the Bowels, Liver, &c. 4to. 1828. Andral, Precis d'Anat. path. I'aris, 1829. io6«<d)i, Traits d'Anat. path. 1829. B. Travers, On tlie Local Diseases termed Malignant • m Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xv. T. Hadgkln, M.D., On the Anatomical Characters of some adventitious Struclures: Wed. Cliir. Trans, vol. xv., 8vo. 1829 [Another paper in vol. xxvi. 184.1. Also, Lectures on the Morbid Anatomy of the Serous and Mucous .Membranes, Lect. viii., ix., x., 8vo. 1836. J. ilU'ler, Ueber d. feinern Ban und die Formen d. krankhaf- ti-n Geschwiilste, tolio, plates, Berlin, 1838. Th. Schiiann. Mikroskopische Untersuchunsren uber die Uebereinstimmun^r in der Struktur und dem Wachs- thum der I'hiere u. Pflanzeu. Berlin, 1839. The Sydenham Society published a translation of this work in 1847. Mamll, De la Structure intime des Tumours, etc.; Arch. g^n. de Med. 1810. J. Voqil Gewebe (in path. Uinsiclit) in Wagner's HandnOr.^ terbuch d. I'liys , bd. i. p. 798, 8vo. Braunschwei" 1842. Hager, Die Geschwiilste. Wien, 1842. ./. Voael Icones Histologla; path. 4to. Lipsiue, 1843. F. Gicns' bury, Uie path. Gevvebeiehie. Leipzig, 1845. H Lchert, Phys. pathologique, 8vo. 2 vols., atlas. Paris" 1845. Carl Briich, IJie Ulan nose d. bOsiirtigen Go' Bcnwiilste. Mainz, 1847. Frerichs, UelierGiillert-odep Colloidgeschwiilste. GUttingen, 1847. Cruued/iier Iraitfe d'Anat. path, faris, 1819. J. II. Bennett On Cancerous and Cancroid Growths, 8vo. Edin! 1849. II. Lebert, De la nature locale ou g(5iiOrale des Tumours, dans Mem. de la Snc. de Bioluicie st:rie 1, t. ii. p. 145, ann^e 1830. Jolin Birkett, The Diseases of the Breast and theirTiealmcnt, 8vo. Lond. 1850. J. Simon, Lectures on General Pathology, 8vo* Lond. 1850. G. (Huge, Path. HistoloKie, folio plates'. Jena, 1850. licinliardt, Path.-nnaloniische Uiitersiich- iingen. Berlin, 1H51. Falirtr, Umrisse n. Hemerk- uiigcn zur patii. Aniitomie d Gcsciiwiilstc : Deutsche Kliiiik, April to June, IS53. lieinlwld Kohler Die Krebs u. r^chcinkrebs-Krankhciten. Stuttgart'l853 •James Paget, Lectures on Surirl. Path., vol. ii'. Xn' niours, 8vo. Lond. 1853. Fiirslcr, Beltriige z Knt" wickl. u. Histol. der Geschwiilste: lllust nied' Zeitung, 1853. Wcdl, Gnindziigc d. path, llistolol