(London, I84C), and Lehert, Maludies CMccrezises (Paris, lUal), lield the same doctrine. Theory had advanced from the contemplation of action of vessels to the behaviour of exudation outside vessels; but there was yet a further step to be made, and that was the behaviour of the elemen- tary constituents of the inflamed tissues them- selves, and this, which had been slightly sketched by Goodsir, was fully demonstrated b}' Red- fern in his paper on the Anormal Nutrition of Cartilage, and on the Healing of Wounds of Car- tilage \Edinburgh Monikl^ Journal Med. Sci., ]850 and 1851). Redfern showed that all the accidents of inflammation cannot be present in cartilage, because it has no nerves, no pain, no vessels, and no exudation; but that when exposed to injuries or conditions which excite inflammation elsewhere, it displays a constant series of changes in its intimate structure. These consist of rapid, irregular, and degenerate growth of the cells, ending in disintegration, and in degeneration of the intercellular structure. We must next notice Paget's Lectures on Surgi- cal Pathology, delivered between 18i7 and 1852 at the Royal College of Surgeons, and published separately in 1853, a work which it is a pleasure to look back upon for_the eloquence and the vigorous power exerted by the author in general- ising, harmonising, and refining the existing mass of fact and theory. The author denies the pro- priety of looking to one condition only as essential to inflammation. As there must be in health a proper quantity of blood, of healthy quality, witli due influence of nerves, and with integrity of structure — in inflammation all these conditions are altered. The quantity of blood is increased, as we have before quoted {supra, p. 25), and he denies that this increase can arise merely from the altered mechanical conditions of the blood-vessels, but must depend on some alteration in the mutual relations of the blood, the vessels, and the parts around. That the quality of blood IS altered, he takes for granted; but cannot assent to the view which ascribes to the blood viscidity arising from excess of fibrine or of white corpuscles. That the nervous influence is disturbed he also assumes. And with regard to the inflamed tissue itself, he calls attention to a double source of change: one interstitial, kom the intrusion of exuded fluid, and the changes it undergoes, and Its cfl'ects in blighting the natural tissues; the other tcxlitral, consisting in the degeneration of t.ie affected tissues themselves. Paget takes any- tnmg but a high view of inflammation, as if it were an exaltation of vital or formative force; on the contrary, he regards it as one of depression of the true nutritive forces, and degeneration of tissue; Whilst whatever formative force is exerted is in tne production of the lowest and most transitory kmds of tissue. I must now hasten to consider the ideas of virchow, whose vigour, audacity, and consistency «oon g.imed f„f Cellular Pathology (1850) as peedy an acceptance as was possible for anythincr «"/evolutu)nary and destructive of settled doctrine! H's postulates are the existence of cells, as the 'vmg units out of which all structures are deve- loped, each cell the centre (as Ooodsir has shown) tiir'"! "^"j"" <^''*'^''^'' which it maintains in struc- "iral and functional activity, by its power of puuctiiig nourishment;—every cell derived from INFLAMMATION. C7 a pre-existing cell—no such thing as free cell development, M independent generation; omnis (xllula e cellula. In inflammation the livin" cell is the part afi'ected—its chemical and nutntive processes, and its attraction for the contents of the blood-vessels. The vessels are not in a state of increased action; on the contrary, they are dilated from paralysis. No corpuscles can pass through their walls without rupture. "Inflammation in all vascular parts begins with hyperaeniia, but the hyperaemia is not the 'essential and determining cause.' If it were, the inflammatory changes should be greatest in the immediate vicinity of the blood-vessel; whereas, in injury of the cornea f(ir example, the focus of inflammation, is not next the vessel, but at the spot where the injury is com- mitted." There is no such process as inflammatory exudation, considered as an act beginning from the vessels. The vessels under pressure transude mere serum, but the so-called inflammatory exudation is a proliferation of the cells of the inflamed tissue— " material which has been generated in the in- flamed part itself through the change of its con- dition." Neither is there such a thing as blastema as a result of exudation. It is the coniieetim tissue that is the true seat of inflammation. It is this tissue whose cells in a state of active pro- liferation constitute the so-called exudation, and whose continued proliferation in a degraded form constitutes suppuration in the deep textures, whilst epithelium is the source of it on surfaces. We must observe that the connective tissue' plays a very important part in Virchow's doctrine. It includes the passive tissues of the body, i.e., common cellular or areolar tissue, fibrous tissue, ligament, tendon, bone, and cartilage. It is uni- versally diffused, is composed of cells, and is per- vaded with cavities and canaliculi like those of bone, for the universal difl'usion of nutriment; and it constitutes the true Ijlastema, the general source of new cells and growths for the whole body. It is very doubtful whether muscle, nerve, or vessel ever suppurate; more probably it 13 the elements of connective tissue everywhere penetrating them. The other great seat of in- flammation and suppuration are the epithelial surfaces. But perhaps the greatest amount of subversion of established notions is to be found in Virchow's doctrine of " fibrinous exudation " or "adhesive inflammation/' and in his views of the source of the fibrine in "inflammatory blood," If, for the sake of comparison, we turn to the Pathological Anatomy of Rokitanskv, the great light of the Vienna School (published 1842-4 6 Trans, hylhe Sydenham Soc. 1855), we find exuda-! tioii of blood plasma looked upon as the climax and test of the inflammatory process. It is re- garded as a consequence of the thinning and per- meability of the walls of blood-vessels, produced by their distension. Why, it is asked, does the exudation in inflammation of mumbranes only- take place on their surface and into their cavities with slight serous infiltration of the inflamed stnic- tnro itself? "This problem," says Rokitanskv, "like that of Johannes Muller, as to natural secretions aft'ecting the free surfaces, is only to bo solved upon the ground of less resistance being offered in this direction." On the contrary, Virchow's doctrine is tliat the fibrinous matter found, in pleurisy for example is