LITIIC lines from the tuberosity of the ischium. The trocar was then passed into the bladder, throiigli tiic triangular space formed hy the nniscles of the perineum. The cauula of the trocar was grooved, and the groove served to conduct llie point of tiie knife into the bladder. About an inch and a ipiarter of the bladder, near the neck, were thus divided, and the external incision formed while the knilc was being withdrawn. A gorget, which acted as a dilator, was next passed into the blad- der, and it served to conduct the linger and forceps into the viscus.] Celsus has delivered one memorable precept in his description of lithotomy: "ut plaga paulo major qnam calculus sit;" <ind he seems to have known very well, that there was more danger in lacerating than cutting the parts. The simplicity of the apparatus minor, however, formerly emboldened every quack to undertake it; and, as this was followed by the evils and blunders unavoidably originating from ignorance, at the same time that it diminished the emolument of regular practitioners, the operation fell into disrepute. (See Ileislcr.) It was longer practised, however, than all the other ancient methods, having been con- tinued to the commencement of the 16th century; and it was performed at Bordeaux, Paris, and other places in France, on patients of all ages, by Raoux, even as late as 150 years ago. Frere Jacques occasionally had recourse to it; and it was successfully executed by Heister. (Part ii, chap. 140.) A modern author recommends it always to be preferred on boys under fourteen. (Allan, p. 12.) Of the Apj-.akatcs Major, and op the Modern Median Operation. The apparatus major was so named from the multiplicity of instruments employed; or as the Marian method, from having been first published by Marianus Sanctus, in 1524, as the invention of his master, Johannes de Roman is. This operation, adopted from avaricious motives, was rude and painful in its performance, and very fatal in its consequences. The apology for its introduction was the declaration of Hippocrates, that wounds of membranous parts are mortal. It was contended, however, that such parts might be dilated with impunity; and, on this principle of dilatation, Romanis invented a complex and dan- gerous plan of operating ; one very incompetent to fulfil the end proposed ; one which, thougli supposed only to dilate, really lacerated the parts. {Burns.) A grooved staff was first introduced through the urethra. The operator, kneeling on one knee, then made an incision with his razor, along the perineum, on one side of the raphe; and, feeling with his little finger for the curve of the stafi', he opened the membranous part of the urethra; and, fixing the point of the knife in the groove of the staff, gave it to an assistant to hold, wliile he passed a probe along the knife into the groove of the staff, and thus into the bladder. The urine now flowed out, and the staff was withdrawn. The operator next took two conductor.i, a sort of strong iron probes ; one, named the female conductor, having in it a groove, like one of our connnon directors; the other, the male conductor, having a probe-point corresponding with that groove. The grooved, or female conductor, being introduced TOMY. 203 along the atalT into the bladder, the staff was withdrawn, and the male conductor passed along the groove of the female one, into the Idadder. Then commenced the operation of dilating. The lithotomist took a conductor in each hand, and, by nuiking their shafts diverge, dilated, or, in plain language, tore open the prostate gland. [J. BclL) It would be absurd in me to trace the various diluting instruments, contrived for the improve- ment of this barbarous operation, by the Colots, Mare'chal, Lo Dian, Pare, &c. Among the nu- merous glaring objections to the apparatus major, I need only notice the cutting of the bulb of the urethra, not sufficiently dividing the membranous part of the urethra, nor the transversalis perinei muscle, which forms a kind of bar across the place where the stone should be extracted; violent distention of the membranous part of the urethra and neck of the bladder; laceration of these latter parts; large abscesses; extravasation of urine, and gangrene; frequent impotency afterwards; and extensive fatality. Bertrandi even saw the urethra and neck of the bladder torn from the prostate by the violence employed in this vile method of operating. {Operations de Chir. p. 169.) How- ever, Pare', Le Dran, Le Cat, Mery, Morand, Mare'chal, Raw, and all the best surgeons in Europe, most strangely adhered to this rash method for two hundred years, till Frere Jacques, in 1697, taught at Paris the original mode of lithotomy, as commonly adopted at the present day. [The Marian method had been abandoned for nearly two hundred years, when Dr, Willis endea- voured to revive it, with some modifications. The first steps of the modified operation are the same as those for the lateral operation; but when the membranous part of the urethra has been opened. Dr. Willis advises that dilatation of the prostate and neck of the bladder shoidd be sub- stituted for incision. The dilatation may be effected with Dr. Arnott's instrument, and continued from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, according to circumstances. If the calculus be very large. Dr. Willis advises us to break it up, and extract it through the dilated passages. A few trials of this method have been made, but the results have not been very encouraging. But long previous to the appearance of Dr. Willis's work, the method of gradual dilatation had been employed by Manzoni, of Verona, and after him by Dr. de Borsn, of the same city. These operators declare that of one hundred pa- tients operated on by them, one only died, and that from a cause unconnected with the operation. De Borsa commenced his operation by making an external incision along the middle line, extending to within half an inch of the anus. He then, with a double-edged scalpel, divided the whole of the membranous portion of the urethra, on the groove of the stalV, to the extent of about ten lines, sometimes nicking the apex of the prostate. The loft forefinger was next passed, in contact with tlic stalV, into the bladder, and generally came af once into contact with the stoTie. The staff having been withdrawn, the prostatic portion of the urethra and the neck of the bladder were dilated by gently rotating the finger; the forceps was introduced, and the stone extracted. Whatever advantages may have attended this