366 OESOPHAGUS. the absence of all organic stiicture, the ready- passage of a bougie when the patient has been put under the influence of chloroform, or the passage of the instrument after only slight resistance with- out chloroform, would supply it. As to the treatment of spasmodic stricture of the cesophagus, it is apparent that its removal must in most cases be sought by remedies addressed to the general system. The constitutional condition on which it so frequently depends must be corrected, and if the function of any special organ be deranged it must be set right. The uterine, digestive, or spinal functions must be carefully examined, and their healthy action insured. Such general measures as conduce to the establishment of vigorous health must be enjoined in all that relates to exercise, free country air, good and digestible food, and proper habits; while the regulation of the secretions and mental occupation will at the same time receive due attention. The use of aloetic purgatives and of assafostida internally, and the administration of iron—either in the form supplied by some of the mineral spas of this or foreign countries, or the same valuable remedy in one of the many good and elegant pharmaceutical preparations now in use, —the cold shower-bath or sea-bathing, and change of scene, are means of restoration of the utmost importance in such cases as we are now consider- ing- During the attack, antispasmodics, sedatives, and stimulants, especially the foetid gums and camphor, may be of use, or chloroform may be administered. A full-sized bougie passed down the oesophagus is often highly beneficial, and should not be neglected. Cupping between the shoulders and the application of a belladonna plaister to the forepart of the throat has been sometimes thought serviceable. It need hardly be added that if the spasm is due to the impaction of any foreign body, such as a pin in the throat, it must be removed before any good can be expected from treatment. Organio Stridura usually occupies either the highest or lowest portion of the canal, and may in its nature be simple or malignant. There are but a few cases of congenital stricture of the cesophagus on record, and folds of mucous mem- brane obstructing the canal are also very rare; but the more common causes of the complaint are injury, violent inflammation, ulceration, and malignant deposition. When inflammation has been for some time present, plastic exudation takes place, and the walls of the canal being thickened, and rendered more rigid, encroach on the tube and diminish its calibre; while when ulcerative action has existed, and the breach of surface heals, contraction attends the formation of the cicatrix. Malignant disease, again, is not uncommon in the ossophagus, and is the cause of a very unmanageable stricture. As compared with other portions of the alimentary canal, cancer is not frequent in the oesophagus, but even there it is by no means rare. It may be either of the hard or soft variety. It is com- monly found at the period of death that the stric- ture consists of epithelial disease, but whether it has been of tluit character all along, or has become so during the progress of the case, it is nut always easy to determine. It is, liowever, well known tiiat strictures of long standing are very liable to become ultimately converted into epithelial disease. The extent of an organic stricture varies much. Sometimes it consists of a mere line of constriction, surrounding the canal like a ligature,—sometimes the contraction is limited to one side of the tube,— sometimes the change of tissue on which the stric- ture depends is quite superficial; while at other times it passes deeply, and involves the whole cir- cumference of the canal. Occasionally the lonLi tudinal space of the oesophagus constricted is vei v small—at other times it includes a considerable length. When the stricture is due to malignant dis- ease, the involvement of the canal may be very exten- sive, and in such cases the oesophagus may be bound firmly to the vertebral column and the sur- rounding parts. It is much more common that the whole circumference of the oesophagus should be comprised than that it should implicate merely one side. The canal frequently undergoes a remark- able enlargement above the seat of stricture, while below it no change is in general met with. The dilatation may be uniform, or may present itself as a pouch of greater or less size, formed of all the coats of the canal or of a sort of hernia or protrusion of the mucous through the muscular coats. The food is arrested in these sacs, and a species of diges- tion may then go on. In some cases the parietes of these saccular enlargements are much thickened, while in other cases, on the contrary, they are greatly thinned. Ulcers are occasionally found both above and below the seat of stricture, and perforation i? not of rare occurrence, especially in cases of malignant disease. A communication may thus be formed with the larynx or bronchial tubes, or pleura, and even through them with the surface of the chest; and thus long fistulous tracts may arise in the neck. Fatal haemorrhage too may arise from the ulcerative action opening some of the great vessels of the neck, or even the aorta. The vertebral artery and the superior intercostal have also been thus perforated. Openings have in like manner been formed into the mediastinimi and pericardium. Traumatic stricture of the oesophagus may, of course, come on at any age and in either sex, while malignant stricture is usuallj'' met with in females beyond middle life. The symptoms gradually imfold themselves. The obstacle to deglutition being slowly formed in organic stricture, the signs by which it is recognised, though at first indistinct and liable to misconstruction, soon be- come sufiiciently distinguishable. Considerable uneasiness generally attends the complaint, and that from an early period. This feeling of discom- fort or actual pain is not always clearly referred to the throat, but pervades tlie chest and the region of the neck, Jind shoots to a point between the shoulders and to the xiphoid cartilage. Deglutition becomes more and more difficult, till probably at last a larger piece of food than usual sticks alto- gether, and is removed with difliculty. Solids become in time unmanageable, and the passage even of fluids is not unattended with difficultj'. The ingesta often appear to the unhappy patient to reach a certain point which he indicates, and then either regurgitate or pass slowly and painfully on into the stomach. This process, though not always attended with sufi'ering, is very painful to witness, and occasionally causes the utmost anxiety to the patient, as we often sec portrayed in his countenance. The higher the constricted point the sooner, of coMse, will the regurgitatioii take place. Spasm frequently aggravates the difliculty, and as a sense of suffocation is occasionally urgent,