TUMOR'. 794 had been working with the microscope, .ind the results of his observations were the enunciation of the following principle, which we quote in his own words: '• Donnez-moi une vdsicule dans le sein de laquelle puissent s'elaborer u mon grd d'autres vesicules, et je vous rendrai le monde organise." (Repert. gen. d'Anat. et de Phys. path, et de Clin, c/iir. t. iii. p. 174.) The improvements in the achromatic microscope, by the aid of which pathologists were enabled to examine the elementary structure of animal tissues, established an epoch in the science of morbid aiiatoiiij'. The observations of Schleiden on the develop- ment of vegetable tissues, published in 1838, and the application of the principle he enunciated to that of animal tissues, by Schwann, in 1039, led to the proposal of the so-called "cell-theorj'." Schwann writes: "One may assert this—that there is one common principle of development for the most diverse elementary parts of organisms, and that the formation of cells is this principle." lie states the process to be as follows : " There is at first a structureless substance, which lies either inside the cells already existing, or between them. In this substance the cells form them- selves, according to fixed laws, and these cells de- velope themselves, in different ways, into the ele- mentary parts of organisms." (Oriyinal, p. 196.) The substance in which the cells are developed, he terms " cytoblastema," and next considers the laws according to which new cells are generated in it; the process of formation of the ceils them- selves; and the different ways in which the cells are developed into the elementary parts of or- ganisms. The cell itself is a compound bod)', and consists of a delicate membrane, enclosing a nucleus, within which are seen the nucleoli. Genze, in 1837, and John Muller, in 1838, after the examination of morbid growths with the microscope, opened a new path in pathological anatomy. The elementary structures of some new growths were found to resemble closely those of some of the structures in the body, and besides those per- fectly formed, were seen capillary vessels; fibres; granules; cells, with nuclei and without; cor- puscles, caudate and spindle shaped; vessels; and crystals. Hence Muller writes: "It is evident that no division of pathological structures into homologous and heterologous can be established. The structure of the innocent growths, in respect of their most minute elements and genesis, does not differ absolutely from cancer " (p. 8). Vogel, in 1842 {Handuorterb. d. Phys. b. i. p. 812), appears to apree with this statement of Miiller; but, in his Handh. d. path. Anal., pub- lished in 1845, where he brings tumors into two grand divisions, from an histologiccal point of view, it is stated otherwise. He considers the homo- logous tumors innocent, the elements of which correspond histologically with those of the normal body; the heterologous, malignant, the elements of which depart more or less from those of the normal body, {Bruch, p. 220.)] It seems to be generally admitted, that the growth of tumors may often be retarded, and that sometimes they may even be diminished, by means of topical bleeding with leeches, and keep- |"g the parts in a continually cool state, by the incessant application of cold sedative washes. Afterwards, when the increased action of the ves- sels seems checked, and the tumor ceases to en- large, discutients are indicated, such as frictions with mercurial ointment, pressure, electricity, rubefacient plasters, solutions of salts, blisters, and issues. Few sarcomatous or encysted tumors, however, are ever completely removed by these local means. The swelling, on the contrary, gene- rally increases, notwithstanding them; and the irritation of the disease by stinmlants is not alto- gether unattended with danger of the affection becoming changed by them into very malignant and dangerous cases, sometimes to all appearances cancerous. The most advisable plan is to recom- mend the removal of sarcomatous tumors with the knife, while they are small, and in an incipient state; for, thus they may be got rid of by an opera- tion, which is certainly trivial, compared with what might afterwards become requisite, if the disease were allowed to proceed and attain an enormous magnitude. [More extended experience enables the surgeon of the present day to endorse some of the state- ments here made. Local applications to really new growths are absolutely useless. Various methods of treatment by injections, ligature, escharotics, and local pressure, are described in other articles. A method, recently brought again into notice, of destroying new growths by gal- vanism, seems likely to be attended with good results.] Tumors, Sarcomatous. These have been so named from their firm, fleshy feel. [The term " histoid growths " is now used instead of sarco- matous.] They are of many kinds, some of which are simple, while others are complicated with a malignant tendency. Mr. Abernethy attempted to form a classification of them, and proposed names for them, deduced from the structure which they exhibit on dissection. Under the title of Common Vascular, or Organised Sarcoma, he includes all those tumors which appear to be composed of the gelatinous part of the blood, rendered more or less V£ ' " ' • - ' -1 I- •» 'T'l " ascular by the growth of vessels through it. The vessels which pervade this substance are, in dif- ferent instances, either larger or smaller, and more or less numerous, being distributed in their usual arborescent manner, without any describable pecu- liarity of arrangement. The structure under con-- sideration is met with not only in distinct tumors, but also in the testis, mamma, and absorbent' glands. When a common vascular, or organised sarcoma, has attained a certain m.ignitude, tlie_ veins of the skin seem remarkably large, and their winding course under the integuments excites notice. This kind of sarcoma is not at all tender, so that it may be freely handled and also electri- fied, without giving pain. The tumor sometimes grows to such a size, that the skin bursts, the suO- stance of the swelling sloughs out, and the disease is <'ot rid of. However, this mode of cure is at- tended with local effects of so formidable « n«f"f*' and so much fever, &c., that the removal ol toe disease with the knife is to be preferred. _ The second kind of tumor, noticed m Aoer- nethy's classification, is the Adipose Sarcoma lu^r noma]. Every one in the habit of observing sur Lai disease, must know that f"")'^ exceedingly common. Mr. Abernethy belie»es that these swellings are formed in the s«mc man ner as others; viz., in the first instance, ttieyv^<=