u ,of structure, INFLAMMATION. , and upon these, inflammation. Bulging varicose veins, glaucomatous eyes, era- pliysematous lungs, and other instances, where the decay of structure is the precursor of inflam- mation, will readily suggest themselves to the practitioner. 2. In the next place, we will speak of altered innervation as a cause of inflammation. But here we tread insufficiently explored ground. That the nerves have a share in the mechanism of all in- flammations is certain, but when we come to specify altered innervation as a substantial and palpable and original cause of inflammation, we are somewhat at a loss. There are some classical cases, which are quoted in most books, of inflammation or some more destructive change, following injury to nerves. For example, in experiments on animals n has constantly been found that section of the ophthal- mic division of the fifth nerve is followed by in- flammation of the conjunctiva, ulceration of the cornea, and even destructive inflammation of the whole globe of the eye. So, too, inflammation ot the lungs may be induced by division ot the pnemogastric. And similar phenomena are not u.ifrequently witnessed by the practical surgeon, notably in the ready formation of sloughs on the saci-um, hips, and ankles, and in the rapid inflam- mation of the bladder after injuries to the spinal cord Mr. Simon mentions a case of inflamma- tion of the two inner fingers in consequence of laceration of the ulnar nerve (Simon s Lect., iii^i)). More than one explanation has been otfered ot Buch cases. At first, the fact that the injured nerve is commonly a sensitive one, seemed to iustify the opinion that the phenomenon was reflex, dependent solely on the influence of the nerves on the local circulation. But it is, to say the least, doubtful how far this explanation would account for the production of the various incidents of inflammation beyond the hyperaeaiia. A more plausible explanation was suggested by Sir ii Brodie, and has been largely supported by experi ment : viz., that the inflammation is caused by the continued irritation of foreign bodies, from the contact of which the part, deprived of all sensibi- lity, is unable to defend itself. It is argued, for example, that the inflammation of the bladder, in cases of paralysis, depends solely on the retention of the decomposing urine, which the bladder is nnable to expel, and that it may be prevented bv the careful use of the catheter, and by washing out the bladder—that the rapid formation ol Bloughs in the same cases depends on the con- tinued nressure on the most exposed points, a pressure'of which the paralysed patient is uncon- scious, and which he therefore makes no effort to relieve. (See Art. on Fractures of Spine.)_ bo aaain Dr. Snellen has shown that, after division of the fifth nerve, inflammation of the conjunctiva maybe warded off for a time if not altoge.he. by stitching together the eyelids, and drawing the ear of the animal over them for a still f^l'^J'^ P'/ tection to the eye ; and in the case of " tion of the lungs after division of the P"« "-gf- ^,,.1, ;» ,nh^ ascribed to the mere congestion iZ much is to be ascribed to the mere onge of blood consequent on the slower resp..< t.on and Traube has shown that it, too, may be o a certain extent, prevented by precautions against the inhalation of foreign bodies, which the nisen- Bible lung makes no tifort to discharge, uui after making every allowance for these mechanical explanations, as they may be called, there is still a residue of phenomena that cannot be so set aside, especially some remarkable experiments by Graefe, in which he proved that mere exposure of the globe (by removing the eyelids and lacrymal gland) without injury to the fifth pair is not nearly so destructive to "the eye as the section of the nerve alone. That residuum derives its explanation m part from the researches of Claude Bernard. We have already mentioned the fact, which seems to be sup- ported by abundant evidence, that the sympathe- tic nerve seems to exert a controlling or restrain- ing force over the circulation ; that when this nerve is divided, the vessels of the part—the rabbit's ear, for example—to which it is distvibuted, seem to be impelled under the influence of an opposite system of nerves (?) to pour in as much blood as possible. The vessels enlarge, the surface reddens, the part is hotter and more sensitive ; more blood can be got from the veins in a given time, like as in that classical example of Mr. Lawrence's, when he caused a man suflering nnder an inflamed hand to be bled from both arms, and found that 15 oz. flowed from the diseased side, whilst only 3 flowed from the sound side. The blood in the veins is arterial, i. e., it has not lingered long enough in the capillaries to deposit its oxygen and undergo the change to venous. The process of absorption is likewise greatly exaggerated, for, as is well known, the amount that can be imbibed by one side of an animal membrane depends on the amount which can pass from the other side. This, then, being the condition of a part whose sympathetic nerve has been divided, let us see what follows. " As long," says Claude Bernard, '• as the animal is kept in good condition, the symptoms observed are. entirely local ; circulation is accele- rated, absorption is earned on with greater activity, and the temperature rises in the part which cor- responds to the operation. This state of things continues almost indefinitely till some morbid cause makes its appearance. // the ammal is momentarily deprived of food, inflammatory symptoms speedily arise in the organs withdrawn from the action of the organic nervous system ; when the cervico-cephalic branch has been cut, the conjunctiva, the pituitary membranes, and other mucous surfaces, enter at once into suppuration; the lunss, the pleura, or the great internal viscera be- come the scat of disease when the operation has been performed on the corresponding ramifications of the splanchnic nerves." The explanation which Claude Bernard gives is this: that" the blood being impoverished through privation of food, the animal begins to feed upon itself ; and the tissues, no longer receiving the nutritive ele- ments which support them in the physiological sta te, are rapidly destroyed, more particularly so in the parts where the intensity of absorption is carried to its utmost pitch. Another result of our experi- ments is, that after the section of the sympathetic nerve, the bhiod contains a larger amount of fibrin than usual, and is more easily coagulated, as in the case of ordinary inflammation." (Op. cit.) The instances of disease produced by injury or irritation of nerve are numerous. Ligature of the oesophagus produces cougoMion and secre- tion in the stomach and bowels, cflurts at vomit-