49G of detaching its edge from that ligament, with which it is connected, than of lacerating its body, induced Scarpa to try a new method of forming an artificial pupil when the natural one had become too much contracted, or quite obliterated after the extraction, or depression of the cataract. Hismethod of operating consists in detaching, by means of a oouching-needle, a certain extent of the circumfer- ence of the iris from the ciliary ligament, without dividing the cornea. The attempt met with suc- cess. This separation of the iris from the ciliary liga- ment invariably occasions an extravasation of blood which always renders the aqueous humour more or less turbid; but the turbidness is after- wards absorbed, and the eye recovers its original transparency. The celebrated Ad. Schmidt performed core- dialj'sjs with a lancet-pointed curved needle, which was introduced, through the sclerotica, into the posterior chamber, with its concavity towards the uvea. With the view of removing all risk of the new opening becoming closed again, Reisinger forms an artificial pupil by making a small incision in the cornea, and introducing a minute double hook, which opens and shuts like a pair of forceps. After passing the hook closed into the anterior chamber, as far as the greater circle of the iris, he turns the points of both the small hooks towards this membrane, then opens the instrument a little, and hooks hold of the iris, which is to be separated from the ciliary ligament, when the instrument is to be shut again, and the part of the iris, taken hold of, drawn a little through the opening of the cornea, where it adheres, and cannot recede again towards the ciliary ligament. (See Davstel- lung eincs neuen Verfalirens die Masldarmjistel zii tuiierbindeu, uiid einer lekliteri und sicheni Metliode Kunsllklte Pupillen bildeii. 12mo. Augsburg, 1816.) Langenbeck is the inventor of an instrument for the formation of an artificial pupil; it is a silver tube, to one end of which is attached a very small gold one, containing a minute hook, capable of being moved backwards and forwards, to the extent of only two lines, by means of a spring in the silver tube. (See G. F. Gullirie on Artificial Pupil, p. 63, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1819 ; also Langen- heck's Neuo ZJi'W. b. i. pp. 1, 454, and 676, 8vo. Himover, 1817—19, and h. ii. pp. 13 and 106, u-here he answers some ohjeotions made lo his instru- ment hj SMagi7iliveil.) Doubtless, one cause of the failure of many operations for artificial pupil is one, to which Mr. Guthrie has adverted, viz. the omission to keep down the subsequent inflamma- tion of the iris and adjacent textures by the timely employment of the lancet, and other antiphlogistic measures. On this subject, however, I need not here dwell, as the proper treatment is already de- scribed in that part of the article Ikis, which refers to iritis. For literature on PupilJ see also article luis. PUS (from TTVov, matter). The fluid formed by the process of suppuration. (.See Suppuka- TION.) [P YiEMI A. Several diseases have been grouped together and described under the name of Pyajmia, wliich although different in their origin, have a common tendency sooner or later to produce ab- scesses in different parts of the body. These dis- eases must always have existed, but it is only of late years that their true pathology has been under- stood. Formerly they were described under the names of Irritative, Sympathetic,Hectic, Typhoid, or Surgical Fever. Even in the present day it is probable that some of these affections, differing ma- terially in their origin, but producing the same kind of symptoms, are described as identical, and that they will only be distinguished as separate diseases when the labours of pathologists have added the finishing touches to the work that has been commenced and continued with so much pro- mise during the present century. The common symptom which unites all these diseases together is the tendency to form multiple abscesses in dif- ferent parts of the body. These abscesses are formed generally by the same series of actions which produce ordinary abscesses, but sometimes the pus is deposited so quickly, and with so little local elaboration, that it would appear to have been almost ready formed in the blood. In some cases no local abscesses are formed, but the secondary actions are of such a nature that they evi- dently wo\ild have formed had the patient lived long enough. In such instances the mass of blood is contaminated to that degree that death ensues before there is time for the abscesses to develop. When any morbid matter passes into the veins there is but one means by which it can be pre- vented from entering the general circulation, and that is by the obstruction of the vessels in which it is contained. The means adopted by nature in order to produce this obstruction is, under ordinary circumstance?, the coagulation of the blood. In the absorbent system of vessels, morbid matters are arrested in their course towards the circula- tion in a different wa)'. Every absorbent vessel conveys its contents in the first instance to a lym- phatic gland, where the fluid undergoes a kind of digestion, which fits it for being received into the blood, or when such a conversion is found impos- sible, the morbid_matter is expelled from the sys- tem by suppuration. When inflammation of a lymphatic vessel has arisen—be it a simple or a specific inflammation—the diseased action always pursues a course towards the glaad, or towards the group of glands " first in order," and there it gene- rally terminates; those "second in order" very rarely indeed being aftected. When symptoms of pysemia ensue in such cases, it seems probable, that some of the same morbid materials that caused the disease of the lymphatics have gained an entrance into the veins directly, and not through the inter- mediate channel of the lymphatics. It is only in very rare instances indeed that the infection of the blood arises from a diseased gland by the passage of matters along the efterent lymph tubes. The number of vitiated fluids which may traverse the veins without leaving any trace of their course, is probably great; but there are some wliich leave evident indications of their passage towards the general circulation. With the latter class we are principally concerned in relation to pytemia. The blood may become poisoned by iU exposure to the action of any of the products generated by decom- posing or putrid animal substances; and many of the serious and grave results described m this essay, are produced in consequence of the intro- duction of septic and ichorous matter from the raw surfaces of wounds. Now, whatever may be the exact nature of this septic matter, Us production