VENEREAL DISEASE. detailed account of 52 cases treated by sypliilisa- tion. In 1853 he published a separate work on the subject, in which he gives full details of 90 cases. Of these S3 were affected with primary syphilis, 50 were cured, 2 failed, and in 1, other treatment was adopted. The remaining 43 la- boured under constitutional affections ; of these, 26 were treated by syphilisation alone ; 25 of the 26 were cured ; in the remaining 19, mercury or iodine was had recourse to. Of the primary cases in 2, secondary symptoms appeared, which gave way under the treatment by syphilisation. We have no hesitation in saying that Dr. Sperino's facts, if they stood alone, cannot be duubted, col- lected, as they were, with the most scrupulous care by a scientific, earnest, honourable and truth- ful man, under the observation of many opposed to the views they were calculated to establish. They do not, however, depend solely on Dr. Sperino's experiments ; the same fticts are proved by other distinguished investigators ; by Dr. Boeck, of Christiania University; Dr. Danielsen, at Bergen ; Dr. Gamberine, at Bologna ; by Dr. Galligo, at Florence ; by Carlfson and Sauborg, in Stockholm. Dr. Boeck has published two works on the subject of syphilisation, one entitled Clinical Ob- servations on Syphilisation, in ] 854, the other as late as 1856, on Syphilisation in Children. At first Dr. Boeck inoculated in two places every six days, subsequently in as many as eight or ten places, at intervals of three days. He inoculated on the arras and thighs, preferring the former at first, as the chancres in this situation are smaller than on the thighs. Dr. Boeck's cases, 84 in number, con- firmed completely the same facts as Dr. Sperino's viz. that each successive set of inoculations were, as a general rule, smaller than the preceding, till at last no effect was produced. He noticed that matter from a first source would be followed by more severe ulcers than a continuance of inocu- lation with the same virus, but that at last the poison from whatever source became apparently inert. In those cases in which mercury had been previously taken the average time and the number of inoculations required to produce syphilisation were greater than in cases in which no mercury had been used. In the former, 6 months 24 days, and 432 inoculations ; in the latter, 6 months 2 days, and 322 inoculations. In the more inveterate cases (probably tertiary syphilis) the average duration of the treatment was 7 months 24 days, and the inoculations 570. It appeared to him also that relapses were frequent where mercury had been given previous to the treatment by inoculation, but that ill 42 cases where no mercury' had been taken no return of the disease sliowed itself in the three years that had elapsed. Dr. Boeck concluded froiu his investigations that:— 1st. hi all cases, without exception, immunity from the venereal poison is obtanied sooner or later by inoculation. 2nd. That the symptoms of syphilis present at the commencement of syphilisation disap[)ear dur- ing the employment of this mode of treatment. 3rd. That the general health does not suffer in the least from syphilisation ; on the contrary, if the patient has been in weak liealth before inocu- lation, he most materially improves in strength and appearance during tlie process. ■ Dr. Boeck is evidently not so sanguine as to the curative effects of syphilisation in tertiary symp- toms, lie says the iodide of potassium actea moit effectually alter syphilisation in cases in which that medicine had previously failed. He makes this remarkable observation, that when the patient labours under syphilis and the effects of mercury combined, the syphilis will give way to inoculation, but the ill effects of mercury remain. Those, he says, will be readily cured by the iodide of potassium, thus admitting that certain symptoms, which he conceives depend upon the mercury and syphilis combined, such as bone affections and some others occurring in tertiary syphilis, require the iodide of potassium for their cure. Dr. Boeck does not approve of inoculation for the cure of primary symptoms, as many would escape the constitutional disease under the ordinary modes of treatment. In the tertiary symptoms, he observes, that the poison of syphilis and mercury have pro- duced such a dyscrasis or cachexia that inoculating with the primary virus has no effect. It is, then, in the secondary stage alone of the disease that he would recommend syphilisation as a curative means. Before leaving Dr. Boeck, we may mention that he states in the towns of Norway, from the careful and regular inspection of the prostitutes and their being imme- diately subjected to treatment, that he was unable to procure inoculable matter from a native source for an entire year ; that this occurred twice in six years, and that his experiments were carried on principally from chancres incurred in England and Germany. Dr. Sperino's investigations have not, it appears to me, been properly appreciated in this country or by the profession generally here or elsewhere, and I regret to say that the opposition he has met with and the unfair criticism he has been subjected to, have determined him to leave to other lovers of science and truth, of whom he feels assured there are many in other coimtries with ample opportuni- ties, who will pursue this subject to its legitimate extent, so as to derive from it all the benefit to humanity that it is capable of affording. After his numerous experiments and zealous investiga- tions of this interesting subject, Dr. Sperino draws this moderate and cautious conclusion, viz. that for the present, that is, till more information be obtained, syphilisation should be limited to the treatment of constitutional syphilis, so long as we cannot be certain whether a person syphilised is protected from a fresh infection, at least for a few years. It appears to me, then, that we must con- fess our indebtedness to M. Auzias Turenne, to Dr. Sperino, and to Dr. Boeck for establishing, without doubt, that the power of the human sys- tem, as well as that of animals, to produce the syphilitic poison is limited, and that by repeated inoculations this power may be exhausted, and that consequently persons may be inoculated with impunitj', as was long known to be the case with the sniall pox and vaccine virus. How long this state of immunity will remain is not yet s;uis(ac- torily determined, even with respect to the vaccine virus ; it may be for seven or for ten years. 'W ith respect to the small-pox poison, it is considered to last for life, although exceptions occur ; but as re- gards syphilis, time is required to determine tins point. We confess we are inclined to think that the immunity will be found to be of very short duration. It may be interesting perhaps here to be reminded of Liebiu's view of the action of