3£8 basis-substance, of greyish, yellowsli, or dull white colour; in some, such bundles effect a coiicentric plan ; in some, the whole section looks nearly uniform, pale or white, very dense; and the fibrous structure, though discoverable with the microscope, is not visible to the naked eye."J In other cases one part of the mass is solid, of a reddish colour, and steatomatous appearance; and in another part there are cells of a larger or smaller size—some empty, others containing either fluid, or a softish medullary substance. Occasionally small lobes are met with, all distinct, but closely pressed together. In almost all cases, Mr. "Wood observed a firm sac, more or less dense, and of a shining ap- pearance, not unlike tendon, and seemingly formed in part or entirely of diseased neurilemma. In some cases the sac is loosely attached to the con tained parts by a thin cellular substance; in others it is firmly incorporated with them, and sometimes it is attached to or partially covered with muscu- lar fibres. The nerve itself is sometimes sound where it enters and comes out of the tumor, but according to Wood it is more frequently thickened, and now and then reddened. [Copland seems to think the nerve itself usually a little redder than usual, and thickened just above and below the tumor. This, if inva- riably confirmed by other surgeons, which is by no means the case, would lead to the idea of inflam. mation of the nerve (or neuritis) being at the bottom or origin of the neuroma. But such is not the case, for neuroma is seldom now considered a re- sult of injury to the nerve, as will be mentioned in speaking of its causes. The nerve may often be traced to the surface o the tumor, and some of its fasciculi even into the substance or sac of the tumor. "When, however, the swelling is very large, none of the nervous fibres can be traced from the trunk above to that below the tumor. • According to Rokitansky, a neuroma is never de posited in the centre of a nerve, but at its side, so that a small part only of its fasciculi is displaced. He makes the observation that it occurs mostly in spinal nerves, or those cerebral nerves having both sensory and motor power. Be'rard, however, has met with one instance of the disease upon a gan^ glionic nerve. {Ericliseii's Surgery.) Mr. Charles H. Moore has lately had a case of arterio-venous cyst produced ia the popliteal nerve, from a blow with a pump-handle. A swelling the size of a hazel-nut existed at the end of a fort- night. In sixteen months the swelling had so in creased that tapping was occasionally employed during the next three months — the tumor was then cut down upon and amputation found neces- sary. The tumor was found to be a cyst consti- tuted by the expanded and hypertrophied textures of the nerve. Mr. Sibley gives the particulars of an interest- ing case in which very numerous neuromata existed all about the nerves before issuing from the spinal canal ; they were so numerous on some nerves as to resemble beads strung on a thread Some of the neuromata were fibro-cellular only others contained cysts filled with gelatinous fluid The patient was paralysed both as to sensation an " motor power in the logs, which were drawn up {Med. and Chir. Truns. 18G6).] i'lie circumstance of the disease afi'ecting only certain number of the fibres of the nerve, seems to NEUROMA. Mr, Wood to account for the complete power of sensation and motion, often retained in the limb beyond the tumor. That part of the nerve does continue adequate to its functions, when anotlier part of it is much diseased, is proved by the effect f dividing the nervous trunk in the operation for the removal of the tumor, when the cessation and power of motion, which had previously been ittle impaired, became instantly destroyed or much diminished.—(See WqocI in Editib. Med. Chir. Trans,, vol. iii.) [The nerve-tissue is not inde eddestroyed, unless it is by pressure from the size of the tumor ; but the fasciculi are separated, stretched and expanded, and perhaps arrested in their function by the growth embedded in them. The diagnosis of a neuroma is usually easy. A small hard tumor is to be felt, either in or imder the skin, firm to the touch, sometimes feeling elastic. The shape of it is usually oval or olive-shaped, the long diameter being from above downwards, that is, in the di- rection of the implicated nerve ; it can be more easily moved from side to side, than from above downwards. It may be accompanied by no pain, but this is seldom the case ; usually these tumors are excessively painful, even upon the slightest pressure. Smart attacks of pain will also occur at other times, darting chiefly towards the periphery of the nerve. It is curious that when an immense number of these neuromas occur in one individual, that they seldom, as observed by Rokitanski and others, give rise to or are accompanied by pain. One man, mentioned by Smith, had 450 of these painless tumors in the right lower extremity^, and perhaps 2,000 of tliem altogether. The pain is usually in the neuroma itself, or the nerve impli- cated; but it may be reflected to other nerves, and is not unfrequently a cause of reflex neuralgia. In the neuroma of stumps the pain radiates upwards, often involving neighbouring nerves in the pain. Among the reflex irritations to which a neuroma may give rise, Brown-S^quard enumerates chorea, epilepsy, hysterical symptoms, trembling, reflected neuralgia, ansesthesia, and paralysis. In several cases, epilectic fits have been traced to them, and upon the removal of !the neuroma, the fits have ceased,—Portal, Brown-Scqmrd, c^c] _ The generality of neuromatous swellings do not seem to be of a cancerous nature: "First, because, however large the diseased mass is, or however long it may have existed, the contiguous textures, and more particularly the skin, do not become affected with disease of a malignant kind ; and, secondly, because there seems to be no tendency to a return of the complaint after it has once been removed by operation." ( Wood, ib.) We know however from the liistory of medul- lary cancer, and especially from the history of this disease, as it presents itself in the eye, that the nerves may be the seat of it, Mr, Listou removed, from a middle-aged and healthy-looking man, a tumor which had occupied the popliteal spncc for a considerable period. It was growing rapidly, having attained the size of a cricket-ball when it was removed. On the dissection, the tibial nerve was found intimately connected with it, tlie fibrilL-e stretched over its sheath, entering nito and being mixed with the substance of its growth. The nerve was cut above and below, and the wliolo mass extirpated, unbroken and entire. Dur- ing the stay of the man in the hospital, a tumor was