DISEASES OF. 732 THYROID GLAND, obstructed circulation, in which case intellectual function is less severely and more rarely altered, which may be attributable to the integrities of the cortical substance in. many cases. Sight is especially liable to disturbance, the clot being continued into the oplithalmic artery. Thickness of speech from paralysis of the muscles of the tongue is sometimes noticed. Total loss of speech from intellectual disturb- ance coincides with occlusion of the arteries of Syl- vius and softening of the anterior and middle lobe of the brain; sometimes with obturation of the poste- rior cerebral artery and softening of the comu am- monis; in the latter case paralysis of the tongue ensues; in the former the tongue in a great measure preserves its movements, and the loss of speech is referrible to intellectual disturbance, the organ of the production of speech being the cerebral convo- lutions. (M. Bouillaud.) The obstruction of the capillaries may result from fatty, atheromatous, or calcareous materials, pus, portions of fibrin from a purulent or gangrenous' focus, pigment granules or cells, &c. Thrombosis occurs in the cerebral sinuses. It may be—1. Non-inflaramator}'. 2. Connected with an inflammatory process. The first produce the efiects of inflammatory obstruction already detailed. There may be exclu- sively fibrin in a more or less advanced stage of alteration. Sometimes there is a false membrane, seated generally in the longitudinal sinus. It may result also from external tumors. It is frequently continued into the torcular herophili and the late- ral sinuses, and is usually symmeliicaU indicating a general cause, and leading to the capillary apoplexy of Cruveilhier. The second is usually a consecutive aifection from alteration of the scalp and bones, caries, wounds and injuries. The thrombus in these cases is mostly connected with suppuration, and consists of fibrin, pus, and sometimes false membrane. These morbid changes occur in caries of the bones of the cranium, as of the temporal bone with in- ternal otitis, and always in the corresponding lateral sinus, rarely with the superior longitudinal sinus. The walls of the sinus are often thickened, friable or destroyed, and perforated, the thrombus itself preventing haemorrhage. Dr. Humphry concludes— 1. That large veins are liable to become obstructed with clots in states of great debility, enfeebling the circulation; in inflammations, ab- scesses, difficult labour, &c. 2. The clots result from altered blood, disposing it to solidify in the veins which afibrd the greatest facilities for their formation. 3. Inflammation of the veins is produced by the clot, and is seated chiefly in the external coat and surrounding cellular membrane. 4. The clots may soften, become connected with the walls, and produce obliteration. They more commonly shrink into delicate bands or fibres, and are removed with little or no obstruction to the circulation. 5. They may be associated with pysemia, but have no necessary connection with it. They rarely lead to any serious result. The cloiting within the vessels is probably pro- duced by a diminution of the volatile alkali of the blood (Richardson). Virchow attributes clots in the pulmonary artc- ries to the lodgment of emboli, which have been wafted with the blood through the right side of the heart, having been detached from ilie ends of clots projecting into the great venous trunks. A clot projecting from one iliac vein, a portion might be washed off by the blood flowing against it from the other iliac vein, and constitute a nucleus for the formation of a plug. Dr. Humphry observes in many cases there is no reason to suppose the pulmonary clots were preceded by clots in the veins, and that the effects of blood predisposed to coagulate are just as likely to exhibit themselves in the pulmonary arteries as in any other part of the system. Dr. Humphry observing an amelioration in the general condition of patients coincident with swelling of a limb, which indicated an obstruction of a great vein, suggests that the general mass of blood may become thereby relieved of a certain quantity of redundant fibrin, and consequently better fitted to minister to nutrition. In inflam- matory disease this generally takes place when the disease is subsiding, and is attendant on recovery, although evidence of a low or cachectic state of the system (p. 20). H. Ancdl.'}^ [Bibliography.—De laThrombose et de I'EmboIie c^r^brales considferees principalement dans leur rapport avec le Ramollissement du Cerveau. Par E. Lancereaux, Paris. 1S62. On the Coagulation of the Blood in the Venous System during Life, by G. M. Humphry, M.D., 1859. Dr. Ogle, iu Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, vols. iv. vi. x. Brit, and For. Med.-Chirurg. Rev., Jan. 1863. p. 138. Idem, July 1881. p. 70; Review of Drs. Colm, Lindstrom, Brilnniche, On Embolism.] THYROID GLAND, DISEASES OP. The thyroid gland is frequently the seat of chro- nic disease known by the name of hronchoce'e (from Ppd-yx"^ the windpipe, and ktjAt) a tumor.) The Swiss call the disease gotre, or goitre. Heister thought it should be named tracheocele. Prosser, from its frequency in the hilly parts of Derby- shire, called it the Derbyshire necTc; and, not satis- fied respecting the similitude of this tumor to that observed on the necks of women on the Alps, the English Bronchocele. By Alibert the disease is called Thyrophraxia. 1. The simple bronchocele, or thyrophraxia, is the most common form of the disease, and-is a mere hypertrophy, in which the thyroid gland is simply enlarged, but not changed in structure. It is com- mon in young girls and in women, has a regular even surface, a uniform resistance, and seldom pre- sents any distinct divisions, or lobes. The integu- ments covering the parts are quite unchanged. It is also well known to be in general free from danger; the ofiice of the thyroid gland not being of such importance in the animal economj', as to be essen- tial to the continuance of life. Alibert has seen one example, in which the tumor became can- cerous. 2. The compound bronchocele presents the greatest variet)-, and astonishes every beholder. Sometimes a more or less voluminous cyst is formed round it, filled with a pultaceous, or purulent matter. Sometimes, in compound bron- choceles, calcareous, tuberculous, melanotic, car- tilaginous, and other adventitious substances are found. Once, in the situation of the thyroid gland, M. Andral met with a hard body, about the natural size of that gland. It consisted of two parts; one a true osseous texture formed of very