r76I INFLAMMATION, class belong other metastatic plienomena—as, for example, the cessation of tlie pulmonary symptoms in a case of phthisis when brain disease comes on. These clinical facts are illustrated by and illustrate the well-known experiments of Claude Bernard on the sympathetic cervical ganirlia. It is usually said that the increased heat and congestion which I'esiilt on the same side as the injury are due to a palsy of the vaso-motor nerves of the part, and no regard is had to an equally constant yet diverse condition—the coldness and pallor—on the opposite side. As a simple fact, we find that, on the one side, vascular activity is intensified, on the other inhibited, with corresponding changes in heat-pro- duction and nutrition, just as occurs in the herai- plegic and metastatic cases of dropsy referred to. " For the purpose,'' saj's Professor Laycock, "of elTective counter-irritation, beyond merely local re- sults, it is necessary that there be continuity of sensory or afferent trophic nerve between the surface irritated and the nerve-centre to be acted on, other- wise no change can be effected therein. Again, if there be no continuity of efferent or motor nerve between the part to be modified and the nerve- centre which modifies, no counter-irritation will avail, although the senssry communication be con- tijuious. . . . " Let us take up a few practical points. Firstl3', T/e desire to alter the condition of the nerve-centres in centric diseases by counter-irritants. The time- honoured use of sinapisms to the feet and wrists in apoplexy and comatose affections generally is a familiar example. ... I have seen cephalic snuffs of great use in epilepsy. The ancient Greeks used this class of remedies so systematically in head affections that they invented a double-piped syringe for the purpose of injecting counter-irritants into both nostrils at once. In cases in which it is advisable to stimulate the nerve-centres through the afferent nerves, hot applications, as Donovan's but- ton, may be applied, or rubefacients, which excite more or less pain and tingling. In certain cases of paraplegia I liave found it very useful to cover the lower extremities with sinapisms for half-an-hour two or three times a day, so as thereby to excite vaso-motor activity in the motor cord through the sensory nerves. In these cases it is necessary' that there be at least sufficient integrity of the sensory nerves and nerve-centres to evolve and transmit the regulative or sensory vis nervosa. If there be complete an£esthesia from structural change, little good will be done. . . . " Upon tiie whole,in acute eases, both experience and theory are opposed to violent (i.e., inflamma- torj') counter-irritation—rubefacients, at the most, are all that are needed ; but even these are more doubtful than local sedatives with warmth and moisture to the skin. The local morbid condition has already caused those centric changes upon which pain depends, and the normal reaction has followed ; this being so, it seems advisable to re- lieve the pain rather than increase it. In this way the great additional suffering may be spared the pjitient which the " heroic " use of blisters, tartar emetic, croton oil, and other inflammatory counter- irritants inflicts. '* I think we can also make these views available to a better comprehension of the uses of counter- irritants when applied to induce absorption of fluid in dropsical joints and elsewhere. Do they act directly and solely on the absorbents, as is generally believed, or on the nerve-centres as well ? When a blister is applied to the side to excite absorption, it is more difficult to understand how it acts locally than through the nervous system, if we remember that the so-called serous metastasis is nothing more than the rapid absorption of serum from a change in a nerve-centre, as in the case in which Kipid absorption followed on embolism of the middle cerebral artery of the same side. Again, if we give the so-called hydragogue cathartics in acute hydro- cephalus, ascites, and general dropsy, we use very active counter-irritation of the intestinal surfaces, and in this way act as certainly on the nerve- centres as when blisters and rubefacients are ap- plied to the skin. So, also, when we use the hot- air bath in dropsies we do much more than stimu- late locally ; we apply a powerful agent to the nervous system. On the other hand, blisters ap- plied to joints under certain conditions will excite effusion." It is no disrespect to the distinguished Edinburgh Professor to say of his views, what one inspired Apostle said of another, that they contain Svaforird Tiva, some things hard to understand. But the whole subject of the distribution of disease as influ- enced by the nervous system is but little explored, and we must be grateful to the pioneers. One point must not be lost sight of in this ob- scure subject, which is, that irritation of a distant organ, acting diastatically through the spinal cord, may not produce the effect of diminishing diseased action, but the contrary. For instance, it is a common practice to apply mustard poultices to the breasts, in order to promote the menstrua! flow. On the otlier hand, the infant is applied to the breast to induce contraction of the womb and divert the blood flow from it, in ha2morrhage after child-birth. Thus it seems that irritation of the breast some- times increases, sometimes diminishes, the nutritive activity of the pelvic genital organs. I remember a case in vi'hich, after the use of sinapisms to the breasts for amenorrhoea, the patient died of abscess of the ovary, which was considered to have been, partly at least, due to the irritation. The question may fairly be asked how far blisters and setons are available in low degenerative inflammation, in which the trophic influence should be augmented, and not taken from. It is said that cauterisation of the helix of the ear relieves sciatica. Brown Sdquard well observes that facts like these are of the utmoat importance as showing the influence of the nerves in disease. (Address, Hanxird Univ. 1866, p. 27; Year Hook, Neto Syd. Soc. 186-2.) We must, in the last place, notice the very in- genious plan of acting on the spine hj heat or cold, which has been introduced b)"^ Dr. John Chapman, as a means of treating local disease through the central nervous system. Dr. Chap- nuui's practice is founded partly on the now well- known relations of the sj-mpathetic nerve to the arterial system, and partly on the existence of efferent trophic, nutritive, or positive motor nerves, which supply the glands and other tissues, and regulate their nutritive activitj'. He believes that " when the sympathetic ganglia are in a state of niAxinuun liypericmia the nervous effluence from them to tlie muscular coats of the arteries to which thej- are severallj' related stimulates them so ex- cessively as to induce in them a state of tonic spasm—a spasm so intense as to result in shutting off the blood altogether from a large proportion of