8,U URINARY CALCULI. of each case. " If you give too little ot' the alkali, the result is not obtained, find the litliic acid is still deposited, although in smaller quantity : if you give too much, you not only prevent the formation of the red sand, but you render the urine alkaline, and a white sand (the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia) is deposited in its place. (P. 172.) Hence, in the exhibition of alkaline remedies, he recommends each case to be made the subject of a distinct experiment, and the pa- tient to be made to enter into the surgeon s views, and assist him with observations. " You should be provided with paper, coloured blue by an infu- sion of litmus ; and also with the same paper, slightly reddened by immersion in a very weak acid. Healthy urine ouglit to turn the blue litmus paper a little red ; and you ought not to give alka- line remedies in such a dose as to destroy this pro- perty altogether ; still less ought you to render the "urine alkaline. If the urine turns the red paper blue, the patient is in danger of suffering from a deposition of the phosphates ; and the alka- lies must be given in smaller quantity." After all, however. Sir Benjamin Brodie concurs in the general observation, that more is to be effected by diet and mode of living than by medicine. I have already noticed the effect of a free se- cretion from the skin in preventing calculo\i8 dis- orders, or, at all events, in rendering them less frequent. A copious perspiration, if it cannot be produced by exercise, may be so by the sulphur fumigating, or hot air bath. " The hot air bath (Sir Benjamin Brodie remarks) is certainly of great advantage to those persons who, having led an inactive life, are subject to dyspepsia, and those twinges in the limbs, especially in the feet, which, sooner or later, are followed by a regular attack of gout ; and I believe that it may also be employed beneficially in cases, in which the patient suffers from a too large proportion of lithic acid in the urine. It is worthy of observation, that the per- spiration, produced by the hot air bath, is highly acid,reddening the blue litmus paper nearly as much as it is reddened by acid urine."—(Op. cit. p. 176.) 0XAL.4.TE OF Lime Deposits and Calculi. [Oxalic acid has a strong affinity for lime, so that when present in the urine, either as a free acid, or a soluble oxalate, it immediately decomposes some of the salts of lime always contained in the urine, and crystals of oxalate of lime, which is an ex- ceedingly insoluble salt, are formed. The oxalic acid nwy be derived directly from the food, being present in many vegetables ; in rhubarb, for in- stance, it is especially abundant, and crystals of oxalate of lime may generally be detected in the urine after rhubarb has been eaten. Under such circumstances its presence is transient and unim- portant. But it may also be produced in the system independently, as the result of some ab- normal change in the blood or in the kidneys, but in what precise way has not yet been satisfactorily explained. The tendency to the production of oxalic acid from sugar, under the inlluence of oxi- dizing agents, has led to the idea that it may be derived from abnormal changes in the saccharine matters of the food. Dr.Prout especially believed it to depend upon the imperfect digestion of this class of substances. Liebig believed it to be produced by the imperfect oxidation of uric acid, \vhich> he thought, should be converted by a due supply of oxygen into urea and carbonic acid ; but if the supply of oxygen were insufficient, it might result in the formation of urea and oxalic acid. Dr. Owen Rees considers it to be the result of decomposition of uric acid subsequent to the secre- tion of the urine by the kidneys. From whatever cause proceeding, the conlinuom presence of oxalate of lime in the urine is usually associated with debility and nervous depression, to remedy which the treatment must mainly be di- rected. It is often found in persons suffering from unusual anxiety or overwork, and will disappear if proper rest and relaxation is obtained. Tonics are usually beneficial, especially in combination with the mineral acids, among which the nitro-muriatic acid was strongly recommended by Dr. Golding Bird. The condition of the digestive organs should be carefully attended to, and the diet should be regulated so as to exclude as far as possible any excess of saccharine material. Oxalate of lime is met with in the form of crys- tals, often very minute, which are most readily discovered by the aid of the microscope, and after the urine has been allowed to stand for some hours to allow them to settle. The urine containing them is usually acid, but not necessarily so, and they are often found mixed with the amorphous deposit of urate of ammonia. They are transparent and perfectly colourless, their usual form being the qua- dratic octohedron. A rarer variety is the dumb-bell shaped crystals, first described by Dr. Golding Bird, respecting the real composition of which doubts have been entertained, in consequence of their action on polarised light having been found dif- ferent from that of the octohedral crystals. It has been thought, therefore, that they might be com- posed of oxalurate of lime, or even be another form of uric acid. It is, however, now believed that they are really composed of oxalate of lime, as originally described by Dr. Bird. Crystals of oxalate of lime are soluble in nitric acid, without effervescence. For representations of these crystals, and for an account of the various theories enter- tained as to their formation, see Golding Bird on Urinary Deposits, 5th ed., by E. L. DiiMt, M D., 1857 ; Fatholomi of the Urine, by 1. i- Tlmdichum, HI D., 1868 ; Lionel Beale on htdney Diseases and Urinary Deposits.'] Oxalate of Lime, or Mulberry Calculus, mostly of a dark brown colour, its interior being often grey. Its surface is usually uneven, pre- senting tubercles more or less prom>nent, Ire- quently rounded, sometimes pointed, and ei ner rough or polished. It is very hard, difficult to saw, and appears to consist of successive uneqmU layers: excepting the few atones, which co.iU.m a proportion of silica, it is the heaviest of the urinary concretions. Though this cal;"" J'^' been named mulberry, from its resemblance to that fruit, yet, as Dr. Marcet has obser«-d there are many concretions of this class whic , for from having the mulberry appearance, are r«s markably smooth and pale-coloured, as niay b seen in plate 8, fig. 6 of that gentlemmi s e say. 0 alateLf lime'calculi, of'^P-- have been observed described by Mr. A\J>'^^ of the Norfolk and Norwich «Pff ' ^^gee supposed to be formed only in the kidne). Syl of Sur,., Holmes, vol. iv. p. ;)] J cording to Mr. Braiide, persons " ^/^'^ this species of calculus are much less liable to