LUMBAR ABSCESS, nic collections of matter, which form in the cel- lular tissue of the loins, behind the peritonEeum and descend in the course of the psoas muscle. According to Professor Gibson,this disease, which IS remarkably common in Europe, is rarely met with in the United States. In the course of thir- teen years, during which he has been connected with extensive hospitals, he has seen only four cases ; and Dr. Physic had never attended an in- stance of psoas abscess in America, unconnected with disease of the spine. (See Gibsoyi's Insti- tutes, ^o. of Surgery, vol. i, p. 214. 8vo. Phila- delphia, 1824.) This remark is curious, because psoas abscess takes place mostly in scrofulous in- dividuals, who, I believe, abound in some parts of the United States, as well as in other countries. Patients, in the incipient stage of the disease, can- not walk so well as usual : they feel uneasiness about the lumbar region, but in general no acute pain, and this sometimes, even though the abscess may have acquired such a size as to form a large tumour, protruding externally. The psoas abscess is one of the best instances which can possibly be adduced, in order to illustrate the nature of those collections of matter, which are called chronic, and which form in an insidious manner, without serious pain, or any other at- tendant inflammation. Sometimes, hov^ever, the patient experiences severe and acute pains in th loins and back long before the abscess produces any external swelling. The abscess sometimes forms a swelling above Poupart's ligament; sometimes below it; and fre quently the matter glides under the fascia of the thigh. Occasionally, it makes its way through the sacro-ischiatic foramen, and assumes rather the appearance of a fistula in ano. When the matter gravitates into the thigh, beneath the fascia, Mr. Hunter would have termed it a disease in, not of, the part. The uneasiness in the loins, and the impulse, communicated to the tumour by coughing, evince that the disease arises in the lumbar region; but, it must be confessed, that we can hardly ever be sure of the existence of the disorder, until the tumour, by presenting itself externally, leads to such information. The symp- toms are commonly of the following kind: pain in the lumbar region, shooting to the groin and thigh, and stiffness and pain in the course of the spine; which symptoms are exasperated by ex- tension of the thigh. The patient cannot stand well on the foot, and either limps in walking, or cannot walk without stooping. Any effort causes an increase of pain. Sometimes the inguinal filands are enlarged. According to Dr. Kyll, of Wesel, the disease admits of being discriminated from others, even in its early stage, by the follow- ing circumstances: the patient cannot walk in. the upright position; he always leans a little forward; he can only straighten himself to a certain point, and he is stopped by a tearing pain, which is felt at the same instant in the groin and loins. The patient can go up stairs more easily than he can come down, because in the latter movement he is obliged to hold himself up. These symptoms are usually preceded for several weeks, or even months, by dull pain in the lumbar region. Lumbar abscess may be mistaken for rheuma- tism, alFeclions of the kidney, coxalgia, lumbago, hsemorrhoidal pains, glandular swellings, and her- nia. I have known the latter mistake frequently made, when the abscess had formed a small swell- ing below Poupart's ligament. The points of difference are'noticed in the article Hernia. I have attended several patients, each of whom had a [double lumbar abscess. Two such cases were lately under me, in University College Hos- pital, and ultimately recovered. In the same hospital, we have seen patients, whose thighs were drawn into complete contact with the belly, from the effects of lumbar abscess; yet after the dis- charge of the matter, the limbs gradually resumed their proper position and use. The lumbar ab- scess is sometimes connected with diseased ver- tebra;, which may either be a cause or an effect of the collection of matter. The di.sease, however, may be unattended with this complication. Chronic abscesses perpetually form in the loins without vertebral disease, and get well with ordi- nary care. {Mayo, Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 124.) The generality of lumbar abscesses, and others in the iliac fossa, are not accompanied by disease of the hip; but now and then such a case presents itself. They are more commonly associated with and dependent upon disease of the vertebrae. When the bodies of patients with lumbar ab- scesses are opened, it is found that the matter is completely enclosed in a cyst, which, in many cases is very extensive. If the contents of such abscesses were not circumscribed by a membranous boundary in this manner, we should find that they would spread among the cells of the cellular tissue, just like water in anasarca. The cyst, which, in its texture, bears some resemblance to a mucous membrane, is both a secreting and an absorbing .surface, as is proved by the great quantity of matter, which soon collects again, after the abscess has been emptied, and by the occasional disappearance of large and palpable collections of matter of this kind, either spontaneously, or in consequence of means which are known to operate bj' exciting the action of the absorbents. In fact the cyst becomes the suppurating surface, and suppuration is mostly believed to be a process, similar to glandular secretion. While the abscess remains unopened, its contents are always undergoing a change, fresh matter is continually forming, and a portion of what was previously in the cyst is undergoing the necessary removal by the absorbents. This is not peculiar to lumbar abscesses; it is common to all abscesses, both chronic and acute, and to every bubo. It is true, that, in acute abscesses, there often has not been, time for the formation of so distinct a membrane as the cyst of a large chronic abscess; but their matter is equally circumscribed by the cavities of the cellular tissue being filled with a dense coagulated lymph, or fibriiie; and though it generally soon makes its way to the sur- face, it also is sometimes absorbed. When a common abscess, the result of acute inflammation, is small, and tending to burst quickly, without any disposition to spread under the integuments, or under a fascia, the surgeon may often suffer the abscess to break of itself, by an ulcerative process. But, in chronic abscesses, the matter has not that strong tendency to make its way outward; its quantity is continually in- creasing; the cyst is, of course, incessantly grow- ing larger and larger; in short, the matter, from one ounce, often gradually increases to the quan- tity of a gallon. When the disease is at length