SCO OPHTHALMOSCOPE, is partly distributed upon tlie conti^unus portions of the retina, and beiug perceived by tlieni, is by our imagination trausferred to the blind spot. Further, it may be observed that near the borders of tbe optic disc, the light of the candle flame bef;ins to be more white, in consequence of the deficient choroid no longer returning red rays. Lastly, it is of great interest to observe precisely tlie boundary between the bacillary bodies and the optic nerve. A small ring at the margin of the optic disc is well known to be sensitive, and it certainly is so, as far as the bacillary bodies extend. The nutoscopic examination teaches the observer tliat tlie subjective image of the candle flame is abruptly cut off where the clear objective image ceases. The knowledge of these circumstances, and an e.xact acquaintauce with the optic disc oi one's own eve, the difference between veins and arteries, the'furm of the nerve and its physiological boundaries, are all of great assistance i" '■ne recognition of disease, and afford a standard of the natural appearance of the disc in respect of colour, condition of surface, and other particulars. The discovery of the nerve in the eye of another person is also facilitated by the practical knowledge gained upon oneself, that its position is not central, but somewhat below the horizontal meridian of the eye The auto-ophtlialmoscope of Coccius is now sold in a very simple form. Ic consists of a brass tube Bi centimetres in lengih, and 3 centimetres m diameter, closed at one end by a plate perpen- dicular to the axis of the tube, in which is seta plane mirror of highly-polished steel, 2 centi- metres in diameter, with its reflecting surface turned outwards, and with a central perforation 3 millimetres in diameter. The tube is blackened within and carries at its other extremity a 3 bi- convex lens, covered by a metal plate having a circular eccentric perforation, with a diameter of 32 millimetres, that extends from the centre of the lens to its circumference. With a very little pnictice and knack, the optic disc can be readily brought into view, but an examination of the whole fundus oculi is difficult and tedious. The field of vision is very limited indeed, and the eye has to be turned in all directions, and examined bit by bit, in order to see as large a portion of the retinal surface as can be scanned at one glance in the eye of another person. Moreover, the princi- ple of the apparatus renders it impossilile to see the macula lutea. Many of these disadvantages have been obviated by the invention of the uistru inent next to be described. Aulo-opUhalmmcopeofHeymann affords to one eye a vertically inverted image o the fundus of the other; in order to examine the left eye with the right. The various parts of Dr. Heymann's very in genious apparatus are inclosed in a box, supported on a stand, and furnished with two ocular opeiv ings like those of a common stereoscope, and witl tjie various screws and milled heads necessary for the purpose of adjusting the mirror, lenses, and prism. The side of the box that is undermost m examining the right eve must be turned uppermost in examining the left,'by which means the neces- sary reversal of the whole instrument is cft.'cted. It would be useless to describe here in detail the several mechanical arrangi'ments, the purposes of wliicli will at once l)ecoine apparent when the in- strument is taken in the hand. For use, it is ncces.sary in the first place to ad- just the distance between the ocular openings to suit the spectator, and then to place a brightly burning lamp behind the mirror. On looking into the apparatus, if the illuminated fundus be not in view, it must be sought by very gentle movements of the mirror and prism; and as soon as a trace of it is perceived, it will be easy to guide it into the centre of the fleld of vision. This done, tlic lenses should next be so moved as to bring out the details of the picture. The Auio-opldhahnoscope of Giraud-Fenhn.— In this instrument, by a contrivance equally simple and ingenious, the whole of the fundus of either eye can be rendered an object of vision to the other, either in the inverted image or the erect. The apparatus consists of two plane mirrors, inclined to one another at a right angle and placed in front of the observer. An ordinary object-lens is placed between the left eye and the mirror oppo- site, and an ordinary ophthalmoscopic mirror is placed in front of the right eye in such a manner as to receive rays from a flame placed to the right side of the right eye, and to reflect them directly upon the plane mirror in front of the right eye. The practical effect is, that the rays leaving the left eye, instead of proceeding straight forwards to an observer in front, are twice bent at a right angle, and brought back to the right eye without any change in their relative positions. The Aiiio-nphihalmoscope of Zehendi-r, which was contrived in order to facilitate self inspection of the excentric portion of the retina, is essentially the same as that of Dr. Giraud-Fenlon. It consists of two plane mirrors, so arranged that they can be inclined towards one another at any necessary angle. A lamp is placed at the side of the observer, facing one of the mirrors. The first, or illuminating mirror, reflects rays from the flame into the eye, and also reflects a portion of the returning rays towards the second mirror, by which they are again reflected in the visual axis of the observer. If the eye be emmetropic, and the emergent rays parallel they will be united into an erect virtual image of the parts from which they come. If the emergent rays be convergent, they may be rendered parallel, or divergent by substi- tuting for the second plane mirror a convex one, of which the radius of curvature should he double the negative focal length of the concave lens that would produce the desired correction. If the illumination be otherwise insuflicient, a concave mirror may be used instead of the first one, but if this be done, the second mirror must in any case be convex. For parallel rays, its radius must be equal to, or somewhat less than that of the first ; and for convergent rays, its r.idius must be still farther diminished according to the degree of their convergence. The Examimilion iriih the Ophthalmoscope— (I) If it be desired to inspect carefully some sin-de point of the fundus oculi, a fixed instrument will be found the most desirable, but it will be far less adapted for a more extended survey. \\ Hi' the fixed instrument the observer sees only from a distance, that is to say, he has before hnn mi image of the retina at his distance for clear vision. While by this he is spared all exertion of his eye, it must not be forgotten that he loses that sharp- ness of pcrc.ptiou which we obtam, as if rom a magnifier, by the close examination of objects.