VENEREAL DISEASE. 921 Imving been communicated to several men who Imd coliabited with one womnn, and, us is presumed, with her alone, at least, inasmuch as may relate to the possibility of any other infection weakening the conclusion attempted to be drawn from the case ; a point which has only been assumed, and by no means ascertained. Mr. Guthrie also ex- presses his belief that the evidence adduced on the point under consideration, justifies the opinion " that ulcers will arise on the penis from the mat- ter of gonorrhoea ; that gonorrhoea will in its turn be caused by the matter of these same ulcers; and that both occur in consequence of promiscuous or uncleanly intercourse. That many of the ulcers produced in this manner iviU occasionally assume every character of chancre, and cannot be distin- ffuished from it, I am perfectly satisfied of, from repeated observation ; but I am equally certain, tiiat a gonorrhoea in men, with the worst appear- ance and symptoms, can, and often does, arise from irritating causes common to parts free from any specific disease, or poison; is not distinguish- able from one that has arisen from promiscuous in- tercourse ; and that both complaints are curable in the same way, and without mercury." On the question, whether gonorrhoea, or the ulcers result- ing from the matter of gonorrhoea, can produce constitutional symptoms, Mr. Guthrie believes that they generally do not, although he does not affirm that they cannot under particular circum- stances of constitution; and he is further of opinion that if such symptoms ever really arise, they be- come serious only in consequence of the exhibition of mercury. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 554.) Delpech considers the possibility of a general infection from the effect of what he terms a syphilitic gonorrhoea, completely proved ; though he admits, that tliere are numerous instances m which this consequence does not happen. He owns that tlie distinction of one class of cases from the other is, d priori, extremely difficult, and most frequently quite impossible. Yet widely dissent- ing from established m,»dern practice, he inclines to ancient maxims, and considers it prudent to de- stroy the first effect of the infection witliout delay; his aim being to shorten the duration of the dis- charge with cubebs, or copaiba, and then to in- troduce mercury into the system, through the same channel as conveys the virus into it, by rub- bing the ointment on the integuments of the penis. {Chir. clinique, p. 292.) The late Mr. Wallace had so complete a conviction that one species of gonorrhoea depended upon the syphilitic poison, that he actually proposes to denominate it catar- rhal primary syphilis; and, with respect to this and the ulcerating forms of primary syphilis, he asserts (what is much disputed), ' we know that they are capable of reciprocally producing each other, and of causing analogous secondary effects in the con- stitution." (See Wallace, On t/ie Ven. Dis. p. 240.) Tills interesting question, whether tiie gonorrhoea! virus is identical with tiiat of syphilis, has been investigated by M. Hernandez, of Toulon, who first inoculated three healthy men in the vigour of life with gonorrlioeal matter taken from three galley-slaves. The inoculation was repeated se- veral times on the glans and the prepuce. Slight ulcerations regularly ensued without any chancrous appearance, and these were easily cured by simple dies.'ingifl. Two otlier individuals, with strong disposition to scurvy, were tlien inoculated, and rebellious ulcers were the consequence, which re- sisted all local remedies, and did not yield till stimulants combined vvith acids were given. One of them had wandering pains; and the pus of his ulcer was sanious, and the granulations fungous. In three out of four other young scrofulous sub- jects, the ulcers were very obstinate ; in two, they had almost all the syphilitic characters, and were followed by herpetic eruptions. In these two, calomel was required to effect the cure; yet M. Hernandez expresses his conviction that there was nothing venereal about them. In another young man of gouty constitution, the sore continued troublesome till warm weather began, and was at- tended with wandering pains, and debility of the digestive organs. In another, the sore put on a venereal appearance, but soon healed on the re- turn of bleeding from some haemorrhoids. After mentioning the particulars of some other cases, M. Hernandez observes, " My experiments are a proof that ulcers which are produced by inocula- tion with gonorrhoea! virus are not sypliilitic, and they explain, at the same time, the sources of errors likely to render experiments of this kind, which appear so simple and decisive, far from being conclusive. They show how many circum- stances may change the nature of ulcers, and give them such a masked character as is calculated to deceive those who are inattentive, and do not ad- vert to these causes of complication." (See Her- nandez, JEssai analytique sur la Kon identit'z des Virus gonorrhe'ique et syphilitique, Toulon, 1812; and Ph. Ricord, Mat. ven. p. 110, &c.) The ob- jections which many woidd make to some of these inferences, would of course be founded on the fact, that a venereal ulcer cannot always be known by Its appearance; nor is the spontaneous cure of a sore without mercury, even though followed by no secondary symptoms, now regarded as any proof of its not having been venereal. Dr. Tongue, of Philadelphia, was inoculated in the right arm by Dr. Barton, with virulent gonor- rhoeal matter ; but the result was not even any inflammation. Inoculation with the same matter was repeated on three others, without effect. Lint, wetted with fresh gonorrhosal matter, was laid behind the glans under the prepuce, and left there two days and a half ; but neither chancre nor in- flammation was produced. The prepuce and glans of a young man were also inoculated, without effect. On the other hand, cases are detailed in which inoculation with venereal matter taken from chancres, undiluted, or diluted with an equal quantity of gum-water, gastric juice, or a solution of one scruple of sulphate of copper or sulphate of iron in an ounce of water, were all followed by the formation of chancres. Dr. Harrison also in- oculated with the matter of chancres, and found an ulcer and constitutional symptoms ensue. These and other particulars are noticed by M. Ricord {Op. cit. p. 114.) Much of the incongruity of the results of inocu- lations with what is termed gonorrhoeal matter, would certainly be accounted for, if gonorrhoea were frequently associated, as is sometimes asserted, with chancres within the urethra. Indeed, M. Ricord infers, that v/henever a discharge from the male urethra comminiicates a chancre to a wonuni there is something more than a clap, and that the urethra is the scat of ulceration in some point of its course. " The existence of every kind of