703 TRACHEA. tlie impaction of the agent, or the infliimmation caused by its presence. This and other important diagnostic points can be determined by ausculta- tion. Puerile respiration maybe detected in some parts, enfeebled or suppressed murmur in others, and musical notes of various kinds may be heard, caused by the passage of air by the side of the foreign body or through it, as in Macnamara's case, in which a perforated plum-stone caused a distinct whistling. Percussion, too, adds a certain quota of information. If there be air imprisoned and at rest in a portion of the lung, a clear note will result from percussion, but if inflammation has been followed by consolidation, dullness will be elicited. If a considerable portion of the lung is inactive, the movements of the ribs, too, will be wanting. The point of impaction can thus, by auscultation and percussion, be sometimes clearly defined, by finding how much and what portion of the lung is shut off from communication with the windpipe. Further, by means of the stethoscope, the movement of the foreign body can be heard, and the hand applied to the throat during strong expiration occasionallydetects its migrations, if the body be of such a size, shape, and weight, as to favour it. When impacted in the larynx, the laryngoscope may occasionally enable us to detectit. The inflammation induced by the irritation may appear earlj' or not till late—the period of its es- tablishment, its extent, and its intensity depending chiefly on the amount of irritation present. Death may follow a train of symptoms in every way ana- logous to those of phthisis, and any of the patho- logical conditions arising from disease of the bron- chia and lungs may be found afterwards. The risk, then, which attends the impaction of a foreign body is at first from suffocation ; after- wards from inflammation, and ultimately from pul- monary disorganisation. The Diagnosis is not always easy. Children may be too young, or too ignorant, or too much afraid to give any information, or they forget that they held an3'thing in the mouth at the moment they were startled, and thus if the first violent effects have passed off before the surgeon is called, it is apt to be concluded either that it was a false alarm altogether, or that the intruder has been spontaneously expelled. If, however, such sj'mp- toms as were before described set in suddenly in a young person, we may be almost certain, that a foreign liody has entered the air passages, and en- quiries should be made to discern its nature, while by auscultation and percussion an attempt should be made to determine the place of its impaction. The history of the case, the previous condition of the patient, the mode of attack, and the nature and size of the extraneous object should all be carefully investigated. If the object is large it will probably be found in the gullet ; if sharp and irregular it has likely got entangled in the folds of the pharynx or glottis, and if small and smooth it may have passed into tlie windpipe. The movements of the body may l)e sought for if we can expect from its form, &c., to find them, and auscultation and percussion put into practice to elicit what further information they are capable of affording. It may be remarked that the absence oF the respiratory nnirmur from a lung or a portion of a lung, and its sudden re cstablisliment is verv characteristic and decisive of the accident undt'r consideration. If the aphonia is marked, or the voice and respiration very croupy, and if the pain be severe and constant while no marked sounds can be de- tected in the chest, we may be pretty confident that the foreign body is impacted in the larynx, while, if its movements can be detected in the trachea, or if there be but a certain portion of a lung cut off from communication with the windpipe, we can in like manner recognise the seat of obstruc- tion. It is, however, to be remarked that it is not alone in those cases in which impaction in the larynx has occurred that decided modifications of the voice are observed, nor yet is it always the case that the presence of a foreign body in the ventricles of the larynx gives rise to a train of very severe s5fmptoms, still in general an opinion may be safely formed as to the position of the intruder from a consideration of these two circumstances, viz. the influence on the voice, and the severity and persistence of the effects. A few exceptional cases are recorded, in which, after the outset, no S3'mp- toms of any moment have followed the presence of a foreign body low down in the trachea. From croup the presence of a foreign bodj- is distinguished by the greater suddenness of the attack ; by the irregular but pretty perfect nature of the intermissions in the progress of the affection; by the seat of the pain and obstruction shifting if the foreign body is not fixed; or the limited portion of the lung affected if it is impacted low down; by the expiratory effort, being that which in gene- ral is most embarrassed; and by the less loud and stridulous character of the breathing and the dryness of the cough. Lastljs in croup, we have the presence from the outset of inflammatory fever. CEdema of (he glottis may be at once recognised by digital examination, together with the history of its advent and progress; while foreign bodies in tlie pharynx or oesophagus may be detected by the finger or a probang, and when they are present deglutition will be affected as well as respira- tion. If the body is large or sharp it will, as was before remarked, probably be found in the gullet, and the appearance of a circumscribed tumour in the neck will fmther confirm that opinion. Whooping cough may be recognised by its history, the peculiar " whoop " and the respiratory difficulty being chiefly wspiratory, as also by the spasm of the glottis. Tlie Prognosis will mainly turn on the nature of the foreign body, the position it occupies and the period of its sojourn. The size, shape, and composition of the substance will manifestly greatly influence the opinion we give as to the re- sult of the case ; its chemical character, its lia- bility to imbibe moisture, the degree of irritation it causes, its direct influence on the respiration. There is most danger of sufl'ocation during the first four or five days, but the risk of that event con- tinues so long as the foreign body remains. Then we have the hazard of inflammation and its effects to weigh, and the various complications which may arise if the body is not got rid of. The longer the extraneous substance is present the worse the an- licipatioiis concerning it. As to the position it occupies, it may lie said generally that the worst |ilace is at the glottis, next the ventricle of the larynx, and that the trachea (if not wholly closed) is less dangerous than a bronchus, because allowing