978 VENEREAL DISEASE. veloped, and were carried through a series of eleven generations. " A third example of direct inoculation from an indurated sore occurred two months afterwards in the same female. The matter was taken from a carefully selected indurated sore in a male out- patient. The sore having been irritated for two daj-s with Unguentum Sabinas, three punctures were made, two of which failed, but one produced a well-developed pustule, which was inoculated through nine pencrations. " A fourth'will be met with in Case 7. The matter was taken from a well-marked indurjited sore in a female out-patient, who afterwards had a secondary eruption. Six inoculations were made, and all were successful. Tliey were carried through ten generations. The sore, which was quite recent, was also inoculated successfully on the patient herself. " A fifth will be found in Case 16, who was in- oculated from a female patient with a well-marked indurated sore on the labium. In this case six punctures were made, but only one proved success- ful. It was reinoculable through twelve genera- tions. This would furnish a sixth instance of suc- cessful inoculation from an indurated sore. A seventh example, which occurred at the Lock Plospital in February 1866, may also be mentioned. The patient was a male, under Mr. W. Coulson, who succeeded, after four consecutive days' inocula- tions, in obtaining well-marked and reinoculable pustules. Both these are examples of auto-inocula- tion, and another is seen in Case 22. " It appears, then, that there is greater difficulty in arriving at a positive result by inoculation with matter taken direct from a hard sore than with matter from a soft sore, but when pustules are ob- tained, they are as freely reinoculable in the one case as in the other. They may be carried with equal facility through a lengthened series on the same patient, and transferred with equal readiness to others. In all these cases of inoculation from indurated sores the pustules have been well de- veloped, and have produced ulcers varying in size from a foiirpenny piece to a shilling, but there has been nothing in their appearance to distinguish them from those made from non-indurated sores. There has been no more appearance of, induration in the one than in the other ; no noticeable diiTer- ence in the duration of the ulcers (which averaged from three to four weeks), or in the appearance of the resulting cicatrices. " The instances we have mentioned afford, in our opinion, convincing proof that the hard sore may be inoculated on the bearer, or on another syphi- litic patient. It appears to us impossible to ex- plain them away, either by the theory of the mixed chancre, or by the supposition that they are all owing to an accidental contamination of the lancet with matter from soft sores. " But if the inoculability of the hard sore has been denied on insufficient gnuinds, these experiments go far to show that the inoculability of the soft sore has been much exaggerated. " It has been taught of late years that the dis- tinctive character of the soft sore is its constant communicability by inoculation to all persons alike, and at all times, and whether they are the subjects of syphilis or not. This, according to our observation, is certainly not the case ; it would appear that, sometimes from no obvious cause, but more often when there is great depression of the vital powers, the difficulty of obtaining a positive result by inoculating syphilitic matter is great, whether it be taken from hard or soft sores. " In one patient (Case 27) with severe tertiary syphilis, only an occasional, and then a very im- perfect, result was obtained for more than six weeks, though she was inoculated almost daily ; but at length, as her health improved under the iodide of potassium and a liberal diet, pustules began to be developed. It was remarkable, also, in this case, that when the inoculations became successful, some of the earlier punctures, which had been apparently failures, came forward and produced pustules. " Another patient (Case 26) who was in a very depressed condition, and who ultimately died from disease of the liver, was inoculated over and over again with every variety of matter without effect. She was inoculated on forty-one different occa- sions, and in three or four only was anything approaching to a positive result obtained, and the pustules were then small and abortive. " In another female (Case 12), also in a very low condition, the inoculations at first failed, but suc- ceeded afterwards and took freelj'', as her health improved. " In a fourth instance (Case 13) there was a very remarkable temporary immunity during an attack of jaundice which lasted for about a mouth. In this patient, while she was jaundiced, no inocu- lations could be made to take, although they had done so freely before the affection commenced, and took again, with equal freedom, as soon as the jaundice got well. " In some other cases (5,11,14) there were also frequent failures, although the patients were ap- parently in sound health. It appears to us, there- fore, from these'numerous examples, that there are conditions, both natural and acquired, under which a person is exempt, temporarily at any rate, from the action of the virus, even when obtained from a soft sore ; and that some persons possess this immunity or power of resisting the effect of the poison much more than others. " In two cases (17 and 18) a circumstance was observed which is worthy of attention. When these two patients had been inoculated for more than four months, and when they had arrived at such a degree of immunity that it was impossible to obtain satisfactory pustules with the matter at our disposal, they were inoculated by the house- surgeon with matter from a spreading phagedenic sore, four punctures being made in each patient In both cases sloughing sores were produced at each puncture. In Case 17 they coalesced, and spread to an alarming extent. In Case 18 they were less severe, though each puncture produced a sloughing sore of an inch and a half in diameter. These inoculations did not, even in their early stage, present the ordinary aspect of a syphilitic inoculation, but rapidly gave evidence of a spread- ing phagedenic action. It would seem, therefore, from these cases, that phagedajna may be commu- nicated as such, directly, by inoculation, and this even in cases where there is an evident indisposi- tion to inoculation with ordinary syphilitic matter. " The immunity from the action of the syphilitic virus obtained by repeated inoculation is another point of great interest. It appears to be beyond question that such matter cannot be inoculated