3 PERIOSTITIS. 445 of the bone thus become infiltrated with pus, con- stituting what has been called diffuse suppuration of hone; or, if it be limited in extent, an abscess will be formed in the substance of the osseous tissue. In this manner the interior of a bone may be destroyed to a considerable extent, leaving large wide cavities ur spaces, whilst the cortex, or shell, is expanded and thinned. After the inflammatory action has ceased, tliis rarefied condition of the bone may remain, when it is of course very fragile. Rokitansky alludes to this form of the disease under the name of os^eq/jorosts, and Gerdy describes it as nn'osttile rarejkmte. A gradual dissolution of the bone may take place in consequence of the continuance of a morbid inflammatory process, con- stituting the disease known as caries (see Caries), and this is more particularly met with when tlie patient is of a strumous habit. Gerdj' pre- fers the term osteite ulctrante to that of caries. This process may continue for a length of time in a healthy person, with very slow molecular destruc- tion of the osseous tissue: it is then known as ulceration of hone, and is commonly seen on the sur- face, as the result of periostitis. Gerdy alludes to it as the osteite erodante. Ostitis may also lead to the death of the whole or a portion of the bone, and is therefore one of the causes of necrosis. (See Necrosis.) If the inflammation involve the articular extre- mity of a bone, it expands the cancelli, destroys their septa, and enlarges the ends of the bone; iu extreme cases converting them into large, irregular, cellular masses. (See Spina Ventosa.) The adjoining articulation will probably be opened into and destroyed. It is generally in a scrofulous person that the articular extremities of a bone are thus affected. In the more chronic form of ostitis, the exuda- tion into the substance of a bone does not undergo a degenerative change, but, on the contrary, becomes organized, and ultimately converted into osseous tissue. The Haversian canals are considerably en- croached upon by thickening of their walls, the cancellated structure is filled up by bony deposit, and the medullary canal is also much diminished in size, so that the bone throughout becomes more dense and solid, whilst its weight is at the same time greatly increased. This condition is termed by Rokitansky a sclerosis, and by Gerdy an ostiite condensante. Generally, whilst this induration is going on in the interior of the bone, there will be an exudation upon its surface beneath the periosteum, which, also becoming transformed into osseous ma- terial, further increases the size of the bone. If the flat bones be involved, the diplde entirely disap- pears, and a section through them may be as hard and dense as a piece of ivory. This condition is also seen in the shaft of a long bone, where the medullary canal may be completely closed, and tJie bone converted into a solid cylinder. But osteomyelitis or endostitis, in which the me- dullary structure of a bone becomes the seat of inflammatiojT, is by far the most grave of those under consideration. This, as before stated, is commonly from some direct injury, whether by accident or operation, or it may occur secondarily by extension of the inflammation from the pe- riosteum or bone-tissue. In the majority of cases, when osteon! 1/clilis arises from an injury, the inflammation assumes the suppurative form; and the medullary canal, the cancelli, and the Haver- sian canals become filled with pus: the periosteum is soon separated from the bone by the presence of purulent fluid between them, and the entire shaft rapidly perishes. The exudation may, however, become ossified, and the bone then undergoes the same changes, and becoraes solidified in the manner described above. This form of inflammation is well seen after am- putations through the shaft of a bone: when the whole thickness of the end of the stump will die, and the walls of the medullary canal also to a "varying extent, leaving the interior of the shaft blocked up by a fibrinous material which ulti- matelj' becomes ossified, and forms a bony plug, which completely occludes the medullary cavitj"-. Not unfrequentl}', however, the whole stump of bone perishes, and then the patient commonly dies. The symptoms of ostitis and osteomyelitis are very similar to each other, and differ from those of periostitis in a few points only. The early symptom is usually pain of a rheumatisraal character, which becomes most intense, with a throbbing bursting sensation : there is inability to move the affected limb l the outline of the bone is less masked by effusion than in periostitis, nor does pressure along it increase the pain, until the sur- rounding tissues are also inflamed : oedema, altera- tion in the colour of the skin, and the formation of pus, are generally more tardy than in periostitis. The constitutional disturbance is, however, much more severe from the commencement. The chief distinctive mark between ostitis and osteomyelitis is that there is much more irrita- tive fever in the latter; symptoms of a typhoid character are often present, and pyaemia as a sequel is not rare. This is not, however, a very unf'requent termination in severe and rapid cases of ostitis and periostitis. (Path. Soc, Trans, vol, xiii. p. 188.) The proper treatment in these affections is rest, local and general: poultices and soothing applica- tions to the affected part: leeches are sometimes of use in the early stages, especially in periostitis. Incisions down to the bone should be practised as soon as the presence of pus is detected, and if the pain be very severe, it will be much relieved by this operation. In those cases where pus is sus- pected to be pent up within the bone, the use of a trephine may be required. Opium in full doses, with salines, or (where there is much depression and debility) with tonics and stimulants, should be given. In chronic cases the diathesis of the pa- tient must be considered, and the appropriate treat- ment for it adopted. In syphilitic affections the iodide of potassium is by far the most useful re- medy : the bichloride of mercury, in small doses, is also in some cases of great service. Where there is localized periostitis, with thickening of the neighbouring parts, the tincture of iodine, blisters, mercurial ointments, and plasters are often valuable adjuvants, as are also other discutient applications. In all cases, whether acute or chronic, the princi- ples of treatment throughout should be to allay the pain, to aid the cfi'orts of nature, whether to dis- perse or to favour the inflammatory process, and to anticipate her by incision as soon as pus is formed: to support the strength of the patient, and to treat the several taints of constitution which may reveal themselves.] G. G. Gasooyen. Sir P. f'mHyj/oji, Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. i. 1817. Roche ct Hanson, Eltimens de I'ath. Mdd. Chir.