1 Modern experience proves, however, tliat when cancer, or rather scirrhus, is confined to tlie neck of the uterus, it will sometimes admit of being successfully removed hy excision. The cervix uteri, in the healthy state, projects from three to SIX lines into the vagina; but M. Lisfninc has known it to make no projection at all. The vagina around it is thin, and in contact, on one side, with the bladder, and, on the other, with the rectum; ■while upwards it is continuous with the proper substance of the uterus. The vagina may be de- tached from the cervix uteri to the extent of more than half an inch, without any ns/c of opening the cid-de-sac of the peritoneum, whicli separates it i'rom the bladder; but since the latter viscus adheres very intimately to its anterior surface, it might then be reached by the instrument. Beliind, the peritoneum not only covers the corresponding surface of the uterus, but also descends over the vagina, to form what M. Velpeau terms the recto- genital excavation; so that, on this side, the knife, jf carried only a few lines, would open the perito- neum. M. Velpeau considers it erroneous then to say that there is a space of eight lines in front, and ten behind, between the upper edge of the cervix Tiie distance is stated by M. Mulgaigne to vary,' according to the greater or lesser projection of the cervix. M. Malgaigne also states that the vagina may always be detached from the cervix to the extent of more than half an inch .in front, with- out hazard of wounding the peritoneum; but, behind, the vagina ascends further, and there is Jess space between it and the peritoneum. (See Velpeau, Noitv. Elein. de Med. oph: t. iii. p. 620- Malyaigne, Man. de Mid. oper. p. 747, ed. 2.) [Dr. Emmet (^Amer. Journ. of ObsL, 186.9) recom- mends, before amputating the cervi.^, to examine whilst the patient is placed on her knees and elbows; this, by favouring gravitation, enables us ^ to note the exact length of the neck more ac- il cnrately. In the ordinary posture the neck is always apparently longer from prolapse of the items.] According to Baudelocque, the e.Kcision of the "rvix uteri was first suggested in 17U0, by Lau- ■ uiot. M. Tarral even ascribes it to Tulpius; lit the tumors which tiie latter took away were ccording to M. Velpeau, evidently polypi. Laz- 111, who puts in a claim fur Mouteggia, ig also '■lieved to have made a similar mistake; nor as M. Velpeau been able to satisfy himself that 1- operation was ever performed by Andre de la ■oix and Lapeyronie, as M. Tarral represents. ' roisberg recommended it, however, in 17U7; and ^ a critical writer observes, sometimes the cervi-v f'-ri was removed accidentally with the knife hy iiorant persons, who niistouk it for a polypus. (See linh. Med. and Sury. Jouni., No. 10;^, p. 377.) n.fessor Osiander, of Goitingen, first executed ' ''le operation in 1801, on a widow, whose vagina j was lilled^by a very vascular fetid fungus, as large a child's head, growing from the orifice of the ^wonib. By means of Smellie's forceps, the fungus was drawn down; but it broke olf, and a tremen- ^flous iia;morrliage ensued. The operator,without loss Dl time, introduced several crooked needles, armed with strong ligature?, through the bottom of the ;™gi!ia,and body of the uterus, until they emerged " ine 08 tincffi. These ligatures served to draw 3own the uterus, and retain it near the mouth of UTERUS, CANCER OF. gg- the vagina. Osiander then introduced a listoury above the scirrhous portion, and divided the uterus exactly in the horiz mtal direction: for an instant the bleeding was profuse, but it was quickly stopped by means of a sponge saturated with styptics. In about a month the woman recovered. Osiander afterwards performed eight similar operations upon different patients, all of whom are reported to have experienced a cure. The observations of Osiander were no sooner promulgated in France, than M. Dupuytren adopted the new operation, and made numerous trials of it. M. Re'camier followed Dupuytren; so that, by 1815, the excision of the cervix uteri had become in France a common operation. However, it remained for M. Lisfranc to e.Ytend the practice, and to convince the most incredulous of the little danger resulting from it. (il/. \ elpeav, Nouv. Eem.de Mid. opir. t. iii. p. 6IS.) Dupuytren also performed the operation eight times; but, instead of employing the liga- tures and knife, as Osiander did, he drew down the uterus with hook forceps {les pinces de Musetue) and divided it, above the scirrhous part, with curved knives and scissors. One of the patients, on whom Dupuytren operated, had a return of the disease, result; but was afterwards effectually cured by the application of caustic, with the aid of the spe- culum invented by M. Re'camier. In 1828, M. Lisfranc had performed this ope- ration on thirty-six individuals, as is stated, for can- cer uteri, the recognition of which last declaration as a positive fact, I beg to observe, is a matter of great importance in determining the merits of the operation. Of the thirty-six patients thus ope- rated upon, " thirty were then well, three dead, and three in progress of recovery. One female, ope- rated on some years before, had since become pregnant, and recently given birth to twins. Lately at the Hotel Dieu, the entire uterus has been removed by M. Recamier; and, in September last, this formidable operation was performed at La Charite, by M. Roux. The patient died in twenty, four hours after the operation." (See Practical I'ormidary of the Parisian Hospitals, by F. S. Katier, p. 17.) Langenbeck's extirpation of the whole uterus, by cutting through nearly the whole of the hnea alba, I do not deem it necessary to detail, as it is a proceeding which I would never recommend to be imitated. The poor woman ex- perienced the same fate as the patient of M Recamier. Dr. John Brown, surgeon to St. Mark's Hospital, has published one of the best descriptions of' the operation of removing the cervix uteri, as witnessed by him at Paris, in 1826 and 1827. To perform this operation (he observes) the patient must be placed as for lithotomy, with the parts exposed to a clear light. The speculum (that of M. Recamier or that of Madame Boivin) is then to be introduced! llie condition of the cervix having been ascer- tained, and the speculum withdrawn, the left fore- finger IS passed up, and on it the double hooks, winch are firmly fixed in the projecting lips of the cervix, one on each side, and given to an assistant iir a moment. The operator, then taking both hooks in his right hand, gradually and Vntly draws down the crvi.-c, till it has been brought nearly on a level with the external parts; he next passes n button-pointed bistoury behind the diseased portion of the uterus, and remores it. Tlio 3 IC