JOINTS, DISEASKS OF. 112 some cases which have fallen under the observation of Sir Benjamin Brodie, he cannot doubt that in- flammation of the hip occasionally terminates in dislocation of that joint. Indeed he has recorded one example of this occurrence. The pain is usually confined to the hip, but Sir Benjamin Brodie has seen cases in which it was also referred to the knee. It may be discriminated from the case in which the cartilages of the hip are ulcerated, by observing that tlie. pain is more severe in the beginning than in ilie advanced stage of the disease. After the inflammation has subsided the fluid is absorbed, and the joint frequently regains its natural figure and mobility ; but in the ma- jority of cases stiifness and swelling remain, and the patient continues very liable to relapse, the pain returning and the swelling being augmented •whenever the patient exposes liimself to cold, or exercises the limb a great deal. In cases where the synovial membrane is thickened, a slow kind of inflammation sometimes continues in the part, notwithstanding the fluid has been absorbed, and the princinal swelling has subsided, the disease at length ex'tending to the cartilajies, suppuration taking place, and the articular surfaces being com- pletely destroyed. According to Sir Benjamin Brodie, in this advanced stage, the history of the disease, and not its present appearance, is the only thing by which we can learn whether the pri- mary affection was inflammation of the synovial membrane, or ulceration of the cartilages. Though such is the most common character of inflammation of the synovial membrane, it is ad- mitted that its nature is sometimes more acute, exhibiting the symptoms mentioned at the begin- ning of this section! In venereal cases synovitis rarely affects more than one or two joints at tlie same time. In rheumatism several joints are fre- quently affected, either at the same time or in succession, and the bursfe mucosae and sheaths of tendons often participate in the disease. There is usually a good deal of pain and swelling, and the joints are often left stiff and enlarged. When the "inflammation is connected with gout, the pain is usually out of all proportion to the other symptoms of inflammation. (See Path, and Surg. Obs. p. 28—34, &c., ed. V.) [When the synovitis is chronic or subacute it may be characterised by all the symptoms of the acute variety of the disease, but in a less severe degree. The swelling and uneasiness of the joint are the most conspicuous local conditions. In some cases the swelling from accumulated serous fluid is so considerable as to cmistitute a true dropsy oi t\\e ^o\ni — Hydrarthrosis. This accumu- lation of fluid, partaking in various degrees ot the characters of serum and synovia, is usually pre- ceded or accompanied by evidence of synovial in- flammation ; but though this generally happens, it is not invariably the case. Kichet, in particular, has recorded instances from which it would appear that inflammation is not a necessary or invariable accompaniment of the affection, the synovial mem- brane being, indeed, preteriiaturally white, and looking as if it had been washed orsoddened ; and though these cases are rare, those that commonly present themselves to the surgeon being ot a de- cidedly inflammatory character, yet their occasional occurrence is sufticient to establish the existence ot a passive as well as of an inflammatory form of the disease. The presence of an abnormal quantity of fluid in the joint is always readily perceived by ts fliwluation and undulation, and by the peculiar fhape that it communicates to the part. The distinctive signs of hydrops articuli in the diflFer- ent articulations are described further on. In some cases of chronic synovitis distinct crackling will be felt in the interior of the joint on laying the hand over the articulation whilst it is freely moved. This has been attributed by Mr. Erich- sen to the existence of plastic bands or deposits in the interior of the joint through which the fluid is pressed on the articular movements, and this occasions the sensation which is met with under other but similar circumstances, in enlargements of the bursa3, and in fluid effusions in the sheaths of tendons, (kee Erichsen, Science and Art of Surgery, ed. 3, p. 681-2.) The termination of synovitis will depend mainly on its cause. When of a simple uncomplicated character, arising as the result perhaps of rheu- matic influences, it will in most cases terminate in complete resolution. In other instances, however, plastic matter may be thrown out, which either assumes the form of warty vegetation or concre- tions within the joints, or of bands stretching across its interior or incorporated with its capsule, occasioning more or less permanent _ stiffness. When synovitis arises from a wound, it usually goes on to suppuration within the joint, with superficial erosion or disintegration of the car- tihige, and eventually, if the limb be not removed, to complete disorganisation of the interior of the articulation, and to more or less complete anky- losis. The same happens in the puerperal inflam- mation of joints, and in those that arise from pyajmia (presently to be considered); in which cases the marked action, commencing on the synovial membrane, extends downwards to the cartilages, eventually leading to their destructive disorganisation. The chronic or subacute synovitis md hydrarthrosis usually terminate favourably; but occasionally, more particularly in strumous constitutions, the disease runs on to suppurative destruction of the joint. This, however, is rare ; yet its occurrence, in some instances, should make the surgeon careful not to confound the fluctuation of the serous accumulation with that of the purulent collection. In the latter instances there will always have been the precursory symptoms of inflamma- tion. (See Op. cit.)] , The treatment of synovitis will depend partly on the severity of the symptoms, and partly on the cause of the disease. When the disorder is connected with rheu- matism, the medicines advised are opium, with ipecacuanha, diaphoretics, or preparations of col- chicum or mercury; of the two latter Sir Benjamin Brodie prefers colchicum, where several joints, and the bursK mucosre and sheaths of tendons are im- plicated. In such cases he prescribes the wine of the root of colchicum in doses varying from fifteen to thirty minims, three times a day, or the acetous extract in doses of two or three grains every night. On the other hand, he considers calomel joined with opium best, where only one or two joints are aifeclcd at a time, and he recommends it to be given so as to affect the gums. In synovial in- flammation connected with gout, the re lef pro- duced by colchicum is still more remarkable, in cases from syphilis, a well-regulated courss ot