26 INFLAMMATION found in only the most severely inflamed parts; in otliers, I think, retardation alone would exist." (Paget, Lect. 1.) It is to be observed that, except in mortified parts, the stagnant blood never coagu- lates in the vessels. Now, from the above account, it is clear that there is no necessary and constant relation, in the nature of cause and effect, between the mere size of the vessels and the rate of circulation. For it has been pointed out by Mr. W. Jones that the same artery may frequently be seen of different calibres in different parts of its course ; and Mr. Lister states that he has, when watching an un- injui-ed arterj', seen the rate of its circulation change without the slightest change in its size. And the inability of mere quiescence of the blood to cause the observed aggregation of red corpuscles in the vessels is also noticed by Mr. Lister, as proved by the fact that in an amputated limb, or in one whose circulation has been entirely arrested, such aggregation only takes place in the area of direct irritation. {Lister, ut supra, p. 668.) The aggregated corpuscles adhere to one another with more or less tenacity in proportion to the degree of irritation. The power of this mutual cohesion is well shown in a case figured by Mr. Lister, in which is seen " a rouleau of red cor- puscles projecting from a stagnant mass into a vein through which the blood was flowing rapidly ; yet the rouleau, though its free end was moved to and fro by the current, was prevented by the mutual adhesiveness of its corpuscles from being broken up or detached." Thus it was evident (he con- tinues), " that, in the capillaries of the space, the red corpuscles had an abnormal tendency to adhere both to the walls of the vessels and to one another, and were on this account accumulating and sticking within them." {Lister, p. 662.) Yet Mr. Paget states that he has never seen anything to support the belief that their natural cohesiveness is in- creased. {Paget, Lect. 1.) And Mr. Lister, after carefully testing the point, by comparison, out of the body, of blood from an inflamed part with healthy blood, came to the same conclusion. " Numerous observations (he says) have tended to establish that, on the one hand, the red corpuscles in the vessels of a perfectly healthy part are free from adhesiveness; and, on the other hand, the adhesive- ness which they acquire in inflammatory conges- tion, though varying in proportion to the degree of irritation, is never greater than occurs in the blood of a healthy part, ivhan ivithdraivn from the body (p. 669). The persistence of stasis after death affords a mode of determining the previous exist ence of inflammation as distinguished from mere active congestion, all signs of which may disap pear. The behaviour of the colourless corpuscles dur- ing the above changes was first described by Dr. C. J. B. Williams (see his Principles of Medicine), but attracted little notice till Mr. W.Jones directed attention to it. He observed that, as the circula- tion flagged, these corpuscles were to be seen in unusually large numbers rolling sluggishly along the sides of the vessels, and that their accumulation would sometimes obstruct the channel of a small vessel, or choke its entrance. Mr. Paget, how- ever, doubted the accuracy of the observation, lor not only had he never observed any accumulation of these corpuscles in the vessels, either during life or after death, but he had been quite unable to satisfy himself that the blood drawn from an in- flamed part contained them in unusual quantity. Mr. Lister, however, entirely confirms Mr. Jones' observation, and even goes beyond him, " In most cases (he says) in which irritation is applied to the web while the blood is circulating through it, one of the earliest abnormal appearances is that of white corpuscles adhering in large numbers to the walls of arteries, capillaries, and veins, as first described and accurately figured by Dr. Williams." {Lister, p. 670.) Again he says, "Not unfre- quently red corpuscles are stopped in their course and adhere among the white ones, and sometimes, especially in young frogs, capillaries become ob- structed throughout their entire length by white corpuscles alone, and, when this is the case, they are apt to escape notice from the inconspicuous character of their contents." " Thus the affection of the white corpuscles is in all respects strictly parallel to that of the red discs, while the greater adhesive- ness of which the former are capable renders the facts regarding them more obvious and unmistake- able." It has been already stated that the time required for the production of the above changes is very variable. In some they occur with extreme rapidity. Mr. Lister mentions that a drop of chloroform, which may be seen to evaporate wholly in two or three seconds, induces all the phenomena of stagnation in that very brief period. And, on the other hand, the effects may last uiany days. aa in another case mentioned also by Lister, in which he observed the " capillaries of an area which had been pinched still transmitting languid streams of blood, containing great excess of corpuscles, several days after the injury had been inflicted." The variations in time appear to be regulated not solely by the degree of irritation employed. Dr. Schuler endeavoured to ascertain the influence of variations in the composition of the blood; and he succeeded in showing that the more liquid the blood, the more rapidly was stasis induced by the same degree of irritation; and rice-versa : in other words, the time required for the production of stasis was in proportion to the facility with which the liquor" sanguinis transuded through the walls of the capillaries. (Schuler, in Cansiatt's JahreshericM, 1854, vol.'.ii. p. 101.) The return of the vessels to the normal state during resolution is effected in a simple manner. If stagnation has not existed long, resolution easily occurs. The corpuscles begin to oscillate, and are readily detached from each other, so that at every stroke of the heart some are forced into neighbour- in"- vessels, and, sometimes, all those in one vessel are thus set afloat en masse. If stagnation has ex- isted a long time, the corpuscles do not at first sepa- rate individually, but the masses, " having become loose in the vessels, and being at every stroke of the heart made to protrude a little into the neighbour- ing vessels into which they open, pieces of them arc detached in the form of irregular flocculi, which are carried along in the stream of circulating fluid, where the red corpuscles appear to be at last separated from each other." Sometimes this pro- cess of breaking up is going on at one part, while fresh stagnation is occurring at another. And the vessels may be observed still for some time to con- tain an unusual quantity of colourless corpuscles accumulated on the inner surface of their walls; and some red ones also continue here and there