destroyed, as a consequence of other forma of arliciilar disease. But, though primary inflamma- tion of the ligaments is so rare an atfection as to be denied by many, yet it certainly does occasionally occur. This has been particularly noticed in the hip- joint, where the inflammatory action may commence in the ligamentum teres. Inflammation may com- mence also in theJUirous capsule of the joint: this we find more particularly to be the case when the affection is of a rheumatic character; in these cases inflammation, running into suppuration and slough of this structure, will commonly spread to the in- ternal parts. In some cases this form of disease gives rise to the deposition of masses and layers of bone in the cellular structures outside of the articulation. Among the causes of arthritis may be men- tioned acute necrosis of the shaft of one of the long bones, as of the tibia in some instances. This will nm on to destructive action in the terminal articu- lations, the cartilages becoming undermined, softened, and perforated. Occasionally the arthritic disease is the result of a morbid condition of tlie articular ends of the long bones, or of those short bones that enter into the formation of the joint; this is especially observed in diseases of the foot, the elbow, knee, and hip ; but it is a condition which Mr. Erichsen believes may occur in any joint. " The bones usually become, in the first instance, the seat of tuberculous infiltration; this runs into unhealthy suppuration, which gives rise to caries and limited necrosis; as the diseased action ap- proaches the articular surface, the incrusting carti- lage becomes loosened, detaches, and at the same time gradually disintegrates, and becomes perfo- rated, nutrition in it being arrested or modified by the morbid state of the subjacent bone. When once the cartilage becomes affected, the whole of the interior of the joint speedily suppurates, and is destroyed. In other cases, inflammatory con- gestion, but without the formation of tuberculous matter, takes place in the articular ends, which become somewhat expanded, and then, without any suppuration occurring in the osseous structure, the cartilage gradually separates or peels o% and be- comes softened and necrosed. This condition is often met with in diseases of the tarsal articu- lations." {Erichsen, op. cii.) Arthritis commonly arises as the result of wounds of joints, or injuries, such as sprains and fractures in their vicinity, especially in young people, and in those of a lymphatic constitution. It also occurs as an accompaniment of pycemia (see PYiEMu), and of some of the morbid conditions of the puerperal state. The puerperal inflammation of joints isofa very destructivecharacter,mostgenerally speedily terminating in suppurative disorganisation. One or several joints may be afl'ected, and the knee is the one that is most frequently and seriously mvolved. Arthritis not unfrequently occurs as a consequence of scarlatina; and Mr. Erichsen has seen the knee-joint especially aftectcd in a de- Btructive manner after this disease. In some forms ot atbummuna there is a great tendency to inflam- mation of the joints; and the same surgeon has so often seen that form of renal dropsy which loHows scarlet fever accompanied by severe inflam- mation of some joint, as to lead him to look upon one condition almost as the sequence of the other The following are the symptoms of arthritis :— ftttn frequently so severe, tensive, and throbbing, JOINTS, DISEASES OF. that sometimes the patient screams in agony the slightest movement of the bed, shaking of the room, or of the limb, or, again, an attempt to examine the joint, gives rise to insupportable agony. At night the pain is increased, and is usually referred with especial severity to one particular spot in the joint,—commonly at the inner or under side of the knee-joint, and at the outer aspect of the hip. The joint is hot and more or less red superficially. The siuelling is uniform, involving the whole of the articulation, and not projecting at certain parts of it, as when the synovial membrane alone is affected ; it is generally not very considerable, and has a soft doughy, rather than a fluctuating, feel. " As the disease advances, however, the swelling usually increases suddenl}', and to a considerable extent, either in consequence of the irritation of the synovial membrane, or of the accumulation of pus within or around the joint. In many cases the synovial membrane gives way, and the pus from the interior of the joint becomes widely diffused through the muscular interspaces of the limb, form- ing enormous abscesses and long sinuous tracts." The position of the affected limb is peculiar, and such as affords the greatest ease ; the knee is semi- flexed and turned outwards; in the hip the thigh is adducted; and the elbow is bent. Spasms or staHings of the limb, often of a sharp and painful character, occur, at night especially. And the constitutional disturbance is not only very severe but associated with much fever, ' As the disease progresses the following pheno- mena will be noticed : s!/p;)?mjrtora (or pyarthrosis) witiiin_ the joint, which is hot and painful, throbbing pain, and at last fluctuation, where the coverings are thinnest. It has been remarked that occasionally suppuration occiu:s very rapidly, and the head of the bone is luxated. Sometimes an abscess forms external to the joint, and pus is diffused throughout the limb. As the ligaments are destroyed, so does the joint become loose, the bones movable; they grate against one another where the incrusting cartilage has been removed and thus give rise to severe suffering. Grating is by no means always to be observed, although the cartilages may be extensively destroyed ; this is attributed to the limitation of the destructive action to the edge of the incrusting cartilage, the opposing surfaces being sound; or else to the filling up of the joint with plastic matter after the cartilages have been removed. It sometimes happens that the symptoms of erosion of cartilage may be present, such as painful starting of the limb, grating, and preternatural mobility, without the formation of an abscess. Under such circum- stances, if proper treatment is adopted, the joint may recover itself, but with some amount of ankylosis present. When matter does form the constitutional disturbance is of an irritative type- the patient suffers severe pain, and becomes worn out for. want of rest. If hectic fever occurs in addition to these aggravated symptoms, death will ensue from exhaustion and irritation, unless the diseased part be removed ; in other cases the joint falls into a state of chronic thickening, with perhaps fistulous openings leading to the diseased structures; and in some of the more favourable instances the patient may recover with a perma- nently rigid joint. (See Erichsen, op. cit.) If attention be paid to the general symptoms,