JOINTS, DISEASES OF. 113 mercury may he tried ; and in otliers, from tlie | buckled on so that tlicy may be removed in order protracted or injudicious use of mercury, the iodide to make the necessary applications to it. Counter- ii-ritation by means of stimulating embrocations will now be serviceable, together with douches either of warm sea-water, or of some of the sulphurous springs, such as those of Harrogate, Aix, or Bareges.] In this stage of the disease, I find the tincture of iodine possesses considerable efficacy, particularly when blended with the soap liniment in the pro- portion of 5j. to gij. Mr. Buchanan applies the tincture of iodine to the integuments, and his accounts represent it as being rapidly absorbed from the surface of the skin, and acting very powerfully in dispersing the tliickening and in- duration of various diseases and abscesses of the joints. Indeed, he prefers such application of iodine to its internal exhibition, and states that its effects are produced without the aid of friction, so that it admits of being employed with advantage even when inflammation is present. (On Diseased Joints, &c., Lond. 1828.) Mercurial or iodine ointment is preferred by some surgeons; or brush- ing over the joint a strong solution of nitrate of silver ; or, after having damped the skin with water, rubbing it very gently with the solid nitrate. Sir Benjamin Brodie speaks favourably of the antimonial ointment in the proportion of 3j. of the antira. tart, to gj. ung. cetacei. Issues and setons are never serviceable, unless ulceration of the cartilages has begun. After all inflammation has subsided, passive motion and friction, conjoined with some of tlie foregoing modes of treatment, will, in the course of lime, restore the motion of the joint, and the use of the limb. I have met with several instances, in which lotions containing vinegar and muriate of ammonia sufficed for the removal of the chronic complaints, left al ter the acute stage of the disorder. The tinc- ture and ointment of iodine are also vaKiable appli- cations, and they may be blended with other lini- ments, which will thus be rendered more efficient. [Amongst the internal remedies likely to be of most service, may be mentioned the iodide of ' potassium, either alone, or in some bitter infusion 1 When the knee-joint has been much distended bir Benjamin Brodie has sometimes dischar<red the fluid by puncture. The following were the results In a thin person, if a few punctures be made with an instrument a very little broader than a couchiug-needle, a larire quantity of fluid may be abstracted by means of a cupping-glass with no inconsiderable relief to the patient But while inflammation exists the benefit is not per- manent, the fluid being rapidly regenerated If however, the inflaniniation has been alreadv sub- dued, the absorption of the fluid usually goes on 80 rapidly that any more expediti.uis method of removing it is unnecessary. 2. If suppuration lias taken place in the joint, not in consequence of ulceration, but from the surface of the synovial membrane, a free opening into it, made with a hiiicet, will often be the best practice. Tiie most prudent plan seems to Sir Benjamin Brodie to be that of first making a puncture with a needle and ascertaining the nature of the discharge ; if it be not simply turbid serum, but actual pus, the lancet may then be employed. {Op. cU.) Loose carlilages in joints.—Hard, roundish or flattened bodies, mostly of a cartilaginous nature, of potassium, and sarsaparilla. Sir Benjamin Brodie deems the last medicines especially useful where the affection of the joints occurs in combina- tion with diseases of the bones and periosteum. (See Path, and Surg. Obs. on Joints, ed. 5.) [It is in the acute form of synovitis, whether arising idjopathically or from injury, that active measures must be adopted. Thus, if the patient be young and strong, venesection must be employed; but in all instances the free and repeated applica- tion of leeches to the inflamed articulation must be carried out. Many surgeons prefer cupping- glasses to leeches. Where the knee is affected, Mr. Coulson recommends the blood to be drawn from the lower part of the thigh, immediately above the swelling, as the application of cupping-glasses over the swelling itself gives rise to too much pain. When the leeches fall off, or when the cupping-glasses are removed, the bleeding is to be promoted by fomenting the part. This line of practice must be persisted in for some days, until the acute symptoms have subsided. In some c£ftes no amount of abstraction of blood will have any efi^ect in diminishing the amount of pain by which the patient is tormented. " I cannot say on what this depends, but it often occurs : perhaps it may be connected with some faulty position of the limb, giving rise to pressure of one inflamed suiface against the other." (See Coulson, Lectures on Diseases of the Joints. The Lancet, vol. i. 1855, p. 380.) The local blood-letting must be followed by the use of warm fomentations or emollient poultices, with the addition of some narcotic to relieve the pain. Some surgeons employ poppy fomentations. Others again the lotio plumbi acetatis. In addition to these, the most perfect rest must be maintained with the limb on a splint, or on pillows properly arranged. In some instances cold irrigation will be found of essential service, more particularly if the synovitis has followed a wound of the articulation. Atthe same time calomel or other purgatives, followed by saline medicines, with antimonj', may be given, and the patient kept on a low diet. Should these means fail, recourse must be had to mercury, which should be given so as to bring the system speedily under its influence.] When the acute symptoms have subsided, and the disease has assumed a subacute or chronic form, the same principles of treatment must be adopted, modified according to the intensity of the affection. Repeated blisterings applied over tlie whole sur- face of the joint will now be found most useful, as recommended by Sir Benjamin Brodie. And if the joint be deep-seated, they may be applied as near to it as possible; but otherwise, at a little distance. Thus, when the synovial mem- brane of the hip is affected, they may be placed on the groin and nates ; but when that of the wrist IS inflamed, they should be applied to the ower part of the fore-arm. Sir Benjamin Brodie thinks blisters have more eflfect than any other means in removing the swelling; but, excepting in very slight cases, he condemns their use, unpreceded by the abstraction of blood. [The most important element in the treatment of the chronic form of the disease is rest, everv thiim ewe provinir nilirntni-v until (lilo J.J .,° limb 13 IIHIULIIV nPQt ttvr.f\ \.., t- . splints. IS usually best fixed bv leather VOL. ir.