VYM uliich arise from tlie coagulation of the blood at thf part, tlie breaking up of such coagulum, and I lie transference of portions thereof to distant p:irts, priuiiicing what is termed by Virchow tluMnibosis and embolism. 2. Those general al- tenitiims in the characters of the blood-(laid, which, whatever may be their exact nature, are highly suagestive of some molecular disturbances and morbid alterations of its constituents, such as unlit it for the nutrition of the tissues. It will be obvious that these need not be conjoined or concomitant effects. The first may be alone ob- served; but in the majoritj' of instances perhaps, where the second has an existence, it is preceded and accompanied by the first condition. In injecting any substance into the blood capable of causing its coagulation, we have that substance included in such coagulum, and, if it be not dis- charged by a local process, portions of it may be transferred to other parts ; and this is more likely to occur if the poison be one capable of generating its like out of the materials with which it is in contact. The treatment naturally, then, divides itself into local and constitutional, both as regards the primary lesion and the subsequent affections. Whatever tends to favour the healthy healing of a wounded vein may be regarded as affording security against any subsequent disease ; and the chief point in the local treatment is to prevent any accidental circumstances from interfering with the natural process of repair. When the powers of the constitution are enfeebled, even the natural motions of a part may interfere with recover)', and rest sometimes becomes an important object in the treatment. How necessary this is after childbirth, when the divided veins are being closed, every one who has attended such cases practically knows. Again, after bleeding, the arm will inflame in a much greater proportion of cases when the patient is obliged to follow his usual occupation, or when, from accidental cir- cumstances, the arms are kept in motion. It has occurred to the author to see the symptoms of purulent deposits set in on the day following pro- longed attempts to bring fractured portions of bone into position. In all such casea any externiil violence, or even the motion of the bod)', may loosen the coagula formed either between the wounded surfaces or in the cavities of veins. If the description now given of the morbid pheimmena in veins be the correct one, the dis- tinction between the process by which fibrin or fibrinous coagula are deposited from the blood and that by which lymph is secreted from the lining membrane of a vessel is of primary importance, not only in regard to the pathology of this class of dis- eases,l)ut also with regard to their surgical treatment. No surgical interference could arrest a morbid process which extends by continuity of action along the lining membrane of a vein; but such inter- ference is both indicated and warranted if the oc- cnsi'inal and severer symptoms of phlebitis depend upon the contents of some particular veins being transmitted, often in a more or less coagulated state, to the general vascular system. Such at- temuts luivo not heen entirely wanting. Ifiinter remarks that when infl niimation takes lil,u:e beyond the orifice of a vein so as to alarm the surgeon, he should immediately place a com- press upon the vein at the inflamed part, to make MIA. 505 the two sides adhere together ; or if suppuration has taken place, then the compress should he put upon that part of the vein just above the suppura- tion. Now, as lymph is not effused in the early stages of phlebitis as a secretion from the lining membrane of the veins, the adhesion produced by Mr. Hunter's method of treatment would be by coagulum of blood only. This would not, under ordinary circumstances, become organised. It wonld adhere only to the sides of the vessel, and it would be constantly liable to become displaced. Such an obstruction, although it might prevent, for a time, the morbid contents of a vein from entering the general circulation, could scarcely be looked upon as a permanent union of the sides of the vessel. In cases where the affected vein is seated super- ficially, a much more certain and effectual way of closing its canal, and of barring the entrance of its contents from the general circulation, may be used. This method, which, when properly performed, I believe to he free from danger, has been recently adopted in several instances. ' It consists in making acupressure in a sound part of the vein above the disease in two places and divid- ing the vein subcutaneously between these two points. The result of this plan of treatment as tar as it has hitherto been tried has appeared very successful. As the process of reparation in veins has been variously described by authors, so the different theories propounded has led to different kinds of treatment. At the Veterinary College, even within the last few years, it was publicly taught that a coagulum in a vein was a foreign substance, and ought to be removed ; and_ the jugular vein in horses which had been bled was sometimes slit up for several inches, in order to remove the coagula which formed in successive portions of its course. That a coagulum in a vein may be an irritatirif substance has been fully proved, but the irritation then depends upon the accidental admixture of foreign matter. To remove coagula in ordinary cases, is to re- move the very means prepared by nature for the restoration and safety of the parts. Position, topi- cal applications, bandages, and temperature may all have their influence in producing healthy ac- tions. As the wounds which precede purulent deposits are generally characterised by feeble powers, those conditions which most tend to in- vigorate the parts are principally indicated. The irritability of a wound frequently appears to be nothing else than a series of attempts to briii"' about an action, which it has not the power to ac° complish ; as soon as that is fulfilled, which the necessity of the parts demands for their healthy condition, irritation will cease. In such cases everything that will confer strength to carry out the intended action will prevent inllaiumation. But no local applications are likely to accomplish this object, unless the powers of the constitution are supported at the san;e time. It is evident observes M. Cruveilliier, that the treatment of plilebitisought to be concentrated on the first period of the disease, viz., that of the coagulation of the blood. So soon as piirtions of a disintegrating or decomposing clot, or the septic products of a wiiund, have become mixed with the circulating bloDtl' medicine is generally of little avail. Unfortuiiatelv' in n large number of cases, the contamination "of