3 s 2 VESrCOVAOlN incisions CDinplelcly ttinuigli the iitorua into the loose aieolnr tissue of the brond iigiinient. He operated in one case in this way in and suc- ceeded in curing the fistuhn, but the treatmeiii lasted over a period of tliree months, and the patient's life was for a long time in imminent rinnger. (See Traite des Fistules Vesica-Ulcrines, 1852.) In his subsequent cases, thirteen in number, as lie informed tlie writer, of which eleven were cured, M. Jobert did not attempt to deal with the fistula Itself, but contented himself with closing the os uteri by suture, thus shuuing off the communica- tion between the uterus and vagina. The urine, of course, still entered the uterus, but could not escape externally, and the remedy, so far as the incontinence was concerned, was as perfect as though the fistula itself had been closed, but the menstrual fluid had of course subsequently to beds- charged through the fistula into the bladder. (See Gazette des Hopitaux for July 19 and August 20, lii5.^;and L'Unioji Medicale, November 22, 185G January 6, 1859; and October J 8, 1860.) The writer, at that time ijjiaware that Jobert's second plan had ever been put in practice, operated by that method in St. Mary's Hospital in May 1862, in tile case which luis been already alluded to. The edges of the os uteri were denuded, and four sutures were inserted. Union appeared to be complete, no escape of urine took place, and menstru- ation was performed through the bladder; but three months afterwards menstruation ceased, and the uterus beg.in to enlarge. Four months later, under the impression that the enlargement was caused by retained menstrual secretion, a puncture was made through the uniting medium in the situation of the 03 uteri, and the result was a miscarriage on the following day of a foetus of about four months. After the miscarriage the incontinence returned as before the first operation. The only probable ex- planation of the pregnancy in this case is that the seminal fluid must have passed through some minute communication between the uterus and vagina, possibly along the track of one of the sutures. If such aperture existed, however, it w;is too small to admit of the escape of any appreci- able quantity either of urine or menstrual secre- tion. _ The patient after her miscarriage, being again in the same miserable condition from incontinence, the OS uteri was again closed in March 1863, by an operation similar to the first. Since this time to the present dale, 187J, there has been no in- voluntary escape of urine, and menstruation has been perfonned regularly through the bladder. (See J. R. Lane, on Vcsioo-uterine Fistula; Med. ; Times atid Oazetle, Nov. 21, I8fi2 ; and Lancet, I Feb. 20, 1864.) AL FISTULA. 995 newly-united parts of the catheter, which it is necessary to retain in the bladder after the opera- tion. The edges are to be denuded, and the sutures inserted in the manner already described but in these cases Bozeman's leaden plate may be used with advantage : it serves to keep the united parts steady, and also to take off the pressure of the catheter. This latter important poii.t is best accomplished by having the leaden plate long enough to project in front beyond the urinary meatus^and by making a notch in it at its anterior extremity for the catheter to rest upon. The writrr had under his care some years since a case of urethro-vaginal fistula, caused by a sloughing venereal ulcer on the anterior wall of the vagina. In consequence of the loss of substance, the treatment of this case was attended with con- siderable difficulty, but after three operations the closure of the fistula, which was about two-thirds of an inch in length, and involved the neck of the bladder, was successfully effected. Sometimes the urethra is- laid open along its whole length. The writer lias treated two cases of this kind. In one the injury was caused by protracted labour, in the other by laceration of the canal in the extraction of a large calculus. In the latter there had been complete incontinence of urine for eight years. The course of the urethra is distingitishable in these cases by slightly pro- jecting lips on each side, between which there is a streak of darker coloured mucous membrane. In both the examples alluded to,.tlie urethral canal was re-established of the normal length by a single operation, and a perfect cure was the result. The leaden plate, projecting forwards for some distance, IS especially necessary in these cases, for without it the whole weigjit of the catheter would rest upon the anterior extremity of the newly-united urethra. Uret/iro-varjimd Fistula. — Occasionally, from (pressure of the fcetal lieaj against the arch of tthe pubcs during labnur, a fistulous opening is "■established between the urethra and vaginii I Usually the neck of the bladder is at the same ; time involved, and the incontinence of urine is stheiefore as complete as in the more common case of ve.sico-vnginal fistula. Urethro-vaginal fistulic are more accessible to the operator thiiii the forms previously described, but they are more dillicult to Ideal with successfully, on account of the thinness ■of the urethral walls, and the pressure 011 the Fistulous communications between the rec- tum and vagina are alluded to in the article on Recto vuginal Fistula. The plan of operation 18 the same as in vesical fistula;; but as regards the after treatment the rectum is a more difficult viscus to manage than the bladder. The latter can be kept in a state of perfect rest by means of a catheter, and the urine flows away without the necessity of any expulsive effort; but it is impossible to prevent the rectum from becoming gradually distended wiih foecal matter, and it is impossible, also, f„r its con- tents to be got rid of without the action of its own muscular fibres, which, of necessitv, interferes iniuriously with the newly-united parts. After operal,ions for recto-vaginal fistula;, the bowels shoiild not be allowed to act for at least ten days at the end of which time a full dose of castor oil should be given, and its operation assisted hv enemata of warm gruel, the patient being directed to avoid straining as much as possible. The sutures should on no account be removed until iilter the rectum has been emptied. Jamas It. Lane, VERRUCA. A wart. See Wart VKRTKIJR^, DISEASE OF. See Spine. IJlSlSASKS OP. ^ VINUM OPIL Take of extract of opi„m 5.1-, cinnainrn bark bruised, cloves bruised, of each wine, a pint. Macerate for eit;ht days .'"id filter. The thebaic tincture, or liquid laiida-