T 9G0 VENEREAL passing under tlieir eyes in practice, wlio cannot help suspecting that tiieories have nut always been made subservient to facts, but that facts have been sometimes moulded more or less to suit precon- ceived and tempting theories ; and who, therefore, still hold to the older notion, that all these con- tagious ulcers have their origin from one and the same poison, modified probably by the different degrees of intensity of the contagious matter, by the individual constitutional peculiarities of the recipient, and by the character of the tissue on ■which the poison is implanted. We, of course, admit, that the separation of ve- nereal ulcers into two classes, the indurated or in- fecting, and the unindurated or non-infecting sore, is, within certain limits, of great practical value. We admit freely, that the indurated sore will, as a rule, be followed by constitutional infection ; and that the unindurated sore will, as a rule, produce no such result. But both rules, the latter especially, have occasional exceptions, and we believe it to be impossible to predict with ceHaiiity of any given sure, however typical in appearance, that it will or will not be followed by secondary infection. There is no certain proof of the infecting nature of the sore, but the fact of infection itself. Mr. Henry Lee has offered what is perhaps the most satisfactory explanation of the phenomena usually obberved. His view, if we understand him rightly, is as follows. He thinks, that in the case of the hard sore, the adhesive inflammation is set up, lymph is effused round the base of the sore, the lymph is imbued with the infecting principle, and the blood circulating through the contaminated lymph conveys the poison into the system. On the other hand, if the local inflammation set up is of the suppurative or ulcerative kimi, the contaminating material is thrown off from the surface, excreted, so to speak, either in the form of pus, or by dis- integration of the tissue,and constitutional infection is avoided. Phagedenic or sloughing ulceration is. for the same reason, protective against secondary disease, especially if it sets in at an early period in the progress of the sore, and before the necrssary absorption has taken place. But why, on the supposition that only one poison exists, should it sometimes produce one kind of sore and sometimes another? There may be several reasons for this. Dr. Boeck attributes the fact to the greater intensity or irritating property of the poisonous matter in one case than in another. Where its virulence is great, he thinks it will induce a more violent local action, and the sore will suppurate rather than indurate. Individual inflammatory or non-inflammatory tendencies are also -worthy of being tiiken into consideration. Again, the locality infected has certainly a great deal to do with it. For example, induration is rarely if ever seen on the glans penis, except, per- haps, at the urethral orifice, while its most frequent seat is on the prepuce, just behind the corona glaiidis. It is no uncommon thing to see the same sore affecting both these parts to be indurated on the prepuce and unindurated on the glans. In females also, good examples of the indurated sore are by no means frequently met with, and yet secondary syphilis occurs in them in as great a prnporiion of cases as in males. Wh- ther these reasons are or are not sufficient to aicount for the occurrence of two different cha- racters of sore from the buine contagious principle, DISEASE. there can be no doubt that induration, when present, greatly favours constitutional infection, and this fact has led to the assertion that secondary disease is certain to follow it in all cases. This, however, like most positive statements on the sub- ject of syphilis, requires qualification. We liave ourselves met with several well-marked instances of indurated sores, in which there has been an immunity from further consequences for several years. These, however, were treated with mercury. Dr. Biieck states tliat he has met with cases of the same kind, for which no specific treatment was adopted, and yet no further disease appeared. Without mercury the probability of secondary disease after an indurated sore is certainly very great. With mercury the probability is, we be- lieve, much diminished, but there is still consi- derable risk. But there is the other question, a most important one, as to the immunity from secondary disease after the soft sore, which has been so positively asserted of late years. Of the erroneous nature of this view we entertain a very strong conviction. We are certain that sores which have never shown induration at any period of their progress, and which we have ourselves watched carefully through- out, have nevertheless been followed at the usual period bv a well-marked secondary eruption. With the truth of this we have long been strongly im- pressed, and with the consequent necessity for a verv guarded prognosis on the subject of secondary disease in such cases. Many young surgeons, more influenced by authoritative teaching than we are disposed to be, have been in the lia'iit of assuring patients who presented themselves with a non-indurated sore that they need not apprehend any further consequences, till the signal falsification of their predictions on several occasions convinced them of the imprudence of such an opinion, and of the unreliab'e character of the doctrine. In the present day the falsity of this view has been verified so often, and by so many competent authorities, that we believe it will not be long before the old doctrine again meets with general acceptation. This fact, of the truth of which we are firmly con- vinced, of course operates in our mind in the strongest possible manner against the dmible virus theor)', and in favour of the older view—that both kinds of sore are derived from one and the same source. There is another point of distinction between the two kinds of sore, which is of ureat importance, but to which we have not yet alluded. We mean the period of incubation which is said to precede the appearance of the indurated sore. It is ad- mitted, almost universally, that the soft sore com- mences to influence the tissues from the moment of its application, and that when inoculated, it gives rise to a pustule which is usually distinct enough at the end of forty-eight hours. But we are told that the hard sore" presents a marked con- trast to this, and that it does not cause any per- ceptible action upon the contaminated part till after a period of incubation varying from eight or nine days to three weeks or a month ; that at the end of such period an induration will be met with at the infected point, and that the induration will be foflowed, not preceded, by abrasion or ulcera- tion ; that the appearance of tlie induration is. m fact, evidence of general contamination, and 18 the eailiest of the secondary manifesUitions.