SPINA 1816-18.) In the Path. Soo. Trans, vol. xi., a case IS related where a spina bifida existed with an antero-posterior curvature of the spine, from imperfect development of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrte, together with other deformities. The tumors vary much in size; they are usually about as large as a walnut or a small orange, but may attain the dimensions of a man's head: they are round or oblong in shape, the long axis corres- ponding to the spine; the base is sometimes nar- row and pediculated, at others broad and large. The skin covering them is usually natural in appearance; it may be hard and leathery, but is more commonly thinned and sometimes translucent; when the swelling is very large the integument is congested and of a blueish tint; in rare cases it s altogether deficient over the tumor, ceasing at its base. The walls of the sac are then very thin, composed only of the membranes of the Bpinal cord blended together and forming a com- mon investment, upon the inner surface of which the nervous tilaments or the neurilemma are some- times spread out. The fluid within the cyst is slightly yellow, watery, limpid, albuminous with flocciili occasion- ally floating in it: it is derived from the cerebro- spinal fluid contained in the subarachnoid space, and, like that fluid, when tested gives traces of sugar; it does not alvva3's communicate with the liquid within the ventricles, but usually if there be hydrocephalus, or another swelling along the spine, pressure upon one tumor will fill the other and make tense the fontanelles. Crying, and other expiratory efforts, distend these cysts, whilst during inspiration they recede. Longet accounts for this by the sinuses and spinal plex- uses of veins being filled during expiration, and emptied during inspiration; by the respiratory movements, therefore, the amount of compression to which the fluid within the subarachnoid space is subjected varies considerably. (Aaatomie et I'hysiologie du sysiene nerveux de I homme et des aiiimaux vertehres.) Ollivier states that symptoms of compression of the brain may sometimes be produced by pressing the fluid out of one of these tumors, and so caus- ing it to fill the cavity of the skull {Traitedela JMoelle epinidre et de scs Maladies. See also BilLmd, Op. cit.). Chelius mentions coma and convulsions as resulting from this cause {Si/slem of Surgery, by South, vol. ii.). Pressure upon a spina bifida will often cause paralysis of the parts which receive their nervous supply from that region of the spine which is affected. Fluctuation is not always to be felt in these swellings, but it is sometimes very distinct. The tumors are firm and resisting to the touch when the patient is in the erect posture, but become soft and flaccid when he lies upon his face, and especially when the head is lowered. A few cases have been observed where a tumor containing fluid was found over the vertebraj, connected with the spinal canal, but not com- nuinicating with the interior of the membranes. Velpeau is doubtful as to the real nature of these swellings, but Malgaigne unhesitatingly pro- nounces them to be the sacs of spintG bifidiE, in which the neck has been occluded by inflamma- tion, growth of the lamina;, or some other cause, 80 that their connection with the membranes is cut oftj and a spontaneous cure of the affection BIFIDA. thus results; this happy termination Is, however, very rare. {null, de la Soc. de Chir. Paris, 18G0; see also a case by Mr. Solly, Med. Chir. Traits. vol. xl. p. 19.) The condition of the spinal cord and the nerves, and their position with respect to the tumor, are very variable, and consequently very different effects are produced upon the parts below the lesion; the relation between the nervous structures and the sac is of the greatest importance. In the large majority of cases the medulla or the nerves are contained in the tumor, and either float loose in its cavity, or are intimately adherent to its walls : sometimes these parts are not displaced, but retain their normal position in the vertebral canal. Mr. Prescott Hewett states that, if the tumor correspond to the two or three upper lumbar vertebras only, the cord seldom deviates from its course, and then the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves alone are connected with it; but if, as is most commonly the case, the lumbo-sacral region be affected, the nerves of the corda equina leave the spinal canal and are blended with the sac (Loud. Med. Guz. 1844, vol. xxxiv.); out of twenty cases in this region of the spine he has seen but one exception to this. Cruveilliier's observations also are to the same effect. The medulla may be in a natural condition, and then usually ceases abruptly at the level of the vertebral opening : it may be much softened and thinned so as to be almost diffluent, and then is often studded with small watery vesicles; sometimes it is abnormally hard, at others atro- phied, and again it may be cleft with its lateral halves widely separated. In a few instances it has been found spread out as a layer over the inner surface of the sac walls. As the tumor increases the child gradually becomes languid, feeble, emaciated; the lower limbs waste, and are more or less paralysed; the urine constantly dribbles away, and the fceces pass involuntarily. During the progress of the disease the child is very subject to convulsions, which often end fatally; or the increasing quantity of fluid causes great tension of the sac, and the skin ulcerates, allowing the escape of its contents; or, after rup- ture, inflammation of the cj'st may be set up, and the fluid, becoming purulent, will act as a source of irritation to the medulla ; or the inflammation may extend from the sac walls along the mem- branes, and produce meningitis: in any of these cases death from convulsions is almost invariably the result. The higher this aflV-ction occurs in the spine, the more severe are the symptoms occasioned by it, and the sooner does it prove fatal. The large majority of children who are the subjects of this disease do not survive their birth more than five or six months; some few, however, attain the age of puberty, and even adult life. One case is recorded by Behrend as having reached the age of fifty-one years; another died at forty-three from stone in the bladder, after having recovered from a previous operation {Dull, de la Soc. de Chir. 1860). A case of Mr. Haynes Walton's lived twenty-nine years. Usually these persons are more or less crippled in their lo.ver limbs, but not always so. Moulinitf of Bordeaii.ic met with a man aged thirty-seven 3-ears, who was able to work, and suffered no inconvenience whatever from the large tumor in the back {/Jull. M6d. du Midi, et Gax. M-:d. 1818). A very