310 N^-VUS likely often to be properly applied. Issues and setons produce but little instantaneous effect; tlieir efficacy, therefore, depends on the irritation and discbarge daily kept up. Indeed, these also, if they are left to the care of the patient, which they almost always are, soon become inert and useless. The different caustics approach to the moxn in their properties. Their effect is, in some degree, rapidly produced, and a suppurating ulcer is formed ; but, still to produce their smallest effect, a lon};er time is necessary than the surgeon can conveniently stay with his patient ; so that, as the operation of the remedy is dependent on time, .and that time varies according to the constitution of the patient, the quantity of effect produced can never be calcu- lated upon. It is very different, however, with the moxa. The effect is almost instantaneous, and the surgeon's hand regulates the quantum of action; so that not only is the moxa the most manageable of counter-irritants th.at destroy the skin, but, as many medical men believe, that suddenness of operation forms not a small part of the efficacy of counter-irritants, the moxa stands also pre-eminent on this ground. (See JMed. Melligencer, vol. iii. p 578 • also Larrey, Rccueil de Memoires de Chtr- urgic, Paris, 1821, and particularly, Dunglison's Translation of the first memoir.') MURIATIC ACID. \_HydrocliloricAcidmi\\e. concentrated form is a colourless liquid, highly cor- rosive, emitting fumes \vhen exposed to the air. It is employed medicinally both internally and ex- ternally, occasionally for baths. Gargles containing this acid, are often made use of with adv.antage in various cases of sore throat, diphtheria and the disease known by the name of cancrum oris.] Tiie following formula is employed at St. Bartho- lomew's Hospital. 9.. Rosse rubrfe exsiccatas 3ij. AquJE ferventis ftj. In funde perhoram dimidiam, dein cola, et adde Acidi muriatici 5j. Mellis Rosa2 Sacchari purificati 3vj. Misce._ _ Muriatic acid appears to have been tried in syphilis earlier than the nitric, Dr. Zeller, oi Vienna, having employed it as a remedy for this disease ever since the year 1789. {Vide Sun. Zeller's PraM. Bemerlamgen ilher den vorzugl. Nu- Izen d. allerm. hekannt. Badescliivammes, _4'c. Nehst einem Anliange v. d. Sahsaure, S(C. Wien, 1797.) . ^ As a medicine capable of improving the appear- ance of venereal nlcers, and of restraining for a time the progress of the disease, it was known to Mr. Pearson for many years. He says, that he was first induced to give this acid in venereal ulcers of the tongue, and of the throat, in consequence of the great benefit which he had seen result from its use in examples of cancrum oris: and without viewing it as an antidote for lues venerea, he has frequentlv availed himself of its useful qualities, when it was desirable to gain a little time previously to the commencement of a mercurial course, {Obs. on the Effects of various Articles in the cure 0/Lues Venerea, p. 193. ed. 2.) From what he saw, how- ever, he never inferred, that the sulphuric and muriatic acids could radically cure the venereal disease; and he ascribed the benefit derived from them partly to their salutary effects on the stom.ach and constitution, and partly to their agency on ulcers of the throat and tongue, as local applica- tions. (P. 117.) Hydrochloric .acid is admin- istered to correct alkaline conditions of the urine. The dose is from ten to twenty drops. On this ground it is exhibited to counteract phosphatic deposits in the urine. From 5 to 10 minims thrice daily, will generally be sufiicient. Mr. Balman relates a case of phosphatic calculus which was cured by injecting into the bladder a mixture of two drops of the acid in four ounces of water, always taking care to wash out the bladder previously with warm water. It gave rise to no unpleasant symptoms. (Waring''s Manual of Therapeutics, p. 274.) Muriatic .acid has sometimes been employed, as the .active ingredient in injections for the cure of gonorrhrea, in the proportion of eight or ten drops to four ounces of distilled water. It has, more- over, been found useful as a topical application in various affections of the skin, particularly in fol- licular acne. It may be applied diluted with gly- cerin, or concentrated. If used in an undiluted form it should be removed in less than thirty seconds, by washing with pure water, and after- wards with soap. (Kletzinsky, see Jown. de Pharm. Oct. 1859, p. 301: quoted in United States Dispensatory, 1865, p. 44.) In cases of poison from concentrated hydrochloric acid, the experiments, made by Orfila, lead him to consider calcined magnesia and prepared soap the most fit substfinces for neutralizing such portion of the acid as may not yet be combined with the tex- ture of the oesophagus, stomach, &c. They should be given as soon as possible after the corrosive poison has been swallowed, care being taken to let the patient drink copiously of warm water, milk, broth, or some bland mucilaginous liquid. _ When, from the symptoms, there is reason to believe that inflammation exists in the viscera, or when spasms and convulsions come on, antiphlogistic remedies, and antispasmotics are indicated. (Traile des Poisons, p. 476, vol. i. ed. 2. Paris, 1818.) In order to detect the presence of muriatic acid, when mixed with wine, or other fluids, we are recom- mended to distil a portion of it from a small retort over a candle into a phial containing a solution of nitrate of silver. The precipitation of muriate of silver, which is soluble in ammonia, but not in nitric'acid, will take place, if the poison contain muriatic acid. {Thomson's Dispensatory, p. 4.S4, ed. 2.) ,^ . . By Morve.au, who employed himself in investi- gating the merits of Dr. Carmichael Smith's mode of destroying infection, the muriatic acid, in the form of gas, was alleged to have the very im- portant quality of neutr.aliziug putrid miiismata. The gas is extricated from common s.alt, by means of sulphuric acid. In this way, it is often em- ployed in hospitals as a mode of preventing and obviating infection. The use of muriatic acid, as an application to cert.ain cases of sloughing and phagedrena, h.as been exphained in the articles Hospital GANcnKNK and Mortification. MYDRIASIS. (From iueSdco, to abound m moisture.) A preternatural dil.atation of the pupil. MYOPIA.' (See Vi.sioN.) NiEVUS. (CongenitcE Nolcc; Envies; Mut- ter-mahl; Mother Spots, &;c.) A mole, or con^- iiital mark, thickening, or excrescence of the skin. Na;vi comprehend all the stains, spots, and devi- ations of a part of the skin from its "ormal state, which are congenital. Although they are e.xceed- iLly diversified, all of them may be arranged un- der two principal kinds; one consisting of congenital