LITHOTOMY. 228 ice of American surgeons is in strict con- formity with tlie same principle. " The wound," says Professor Gross, "should in no instance extend entirely through the lateral lobe of the prostate gland, on account of the danger of urinary infiltra- tion." The opinion of Mr. Liston has been already given by Mr. Cooper. Mr. Fergusson states his belief "that in a large majority of cases the open- ing in the deep part of the perineum and neck of the bladder need not at first be larger than what the forefinger will stop," and assures us, " that he has never experienced any remarkable difficulty in extracting stones weighing four ounces without the necessity of cutting beyond the prostate, {Fiact. Surgery, p. 618.) Mr. Erichsen, likewise, insists on the propriety of the operator dividing the prostate " to a very limited extent" (I.e. p. 999). If the operator takes care to push the knife in with the point well pressed against the groove of the staff, and the blade forming but a limited angle with tlie shaft of the staff; and especially in withdrawing it that it be brought back carefully over the finger and still in contact with the instrument, there will be no danger of cutting too widely, or of. doing more than merely notching the apex of the pros- tate. In addition to the prostate, however, Mr. Erichsen, and particularly Mr. Syme, speak of a peculiar tissue about the neck of the bladder which must likewise be divided. The tissue was described by Mr. Tyrrell as " an elastic ring" surrounding the neck of the bladder. Its influence as an impediment, when undivided, to the safe extraction of even a small stone, was insisted on by Mr. Syme as far back as the year 1844 {Edinb. Journal of Med. Science, August, 1844), and more recently in the Lancet (May 19, 1865, p. 504). "At the base of the prostate, where it joins the neck of the bladder, there is a dense tex- ture forming a sort of ring around the urethra; it is thickest immediately under the mucous membrane, whence it gradually tapers away. There can be no doubt that if this texture be torn the patient will die; if it be extensively lace- rated, death will probably occur within two days; and if the injiury be of less extent, chronic inflam- mation will be set up about the neck of the bladder, leading with no less certainty to a fatal termina- tion." Hence Mr. Syme recommends that " the prostate be divided as far into its substance as the ring extends, whereon the rest of the gland tears very readily and without any bad consequence; the muscular fibres of the neck of the bladder separate from each other, and the mucous membrane also yields to the dilating force, so that suflicient space can be obtained without difficulty for the extrac- tion of any stone which the outlet of tlie pelvis will admit." If the forefinger can be readily passed through the neck of the bladder, the incision has been suflicient; but if (continues Mr. Syme), "on introducing the finger to dilate the deep part of the incision, you feel that you have not cut enough, pass a straight probe-pointed bistoury along your finger, and by a gentle sawing motion carry the incision on to the extent that you find necessary in order to enable you to dilate with facility." Mr, Liston also directs attention to this tex- ture as a part which it is indispensable to cut. " If that is effected, the dilatation can be careied to any required extent. The two white triangular spaces at the base of the gland in front and behind show a section of the dense, unyielding, fibrous tissue into which the muscular fibres are inserted; this band effectually prevents dilatation or enlargement of the orifice of the bladder be- yond a certain and very limited extent, without laceration, dreadful suffering, andimminentdanger." {Praot. Stirg. Ed. 4.) That the circular fibres surrounding the vesical orifice of the urethra offer, if undivided, con- siderable resistance to the passage of the finger, every surgeon of experience in lithotomy must be well aware, and few will question the advantage of a moderate division of the textures at this par- ticular spot. At the same time, it is impossible to pass over without comment the singular state- ment of Mr. Syme, that if the ring at the neck of the bladder be torn, the patient will certainly die. There is no reliable evidence that such is the case, while there is ample proof to the contrary in the results of Allarton's operation, which has been so frequently performed of late years, and has been so highly extolled by its advocates on the ground, principally, of its alleged greater safety. In that pro- ceeding the neck of the bladder is forcibly dilated by the finger or by some dilating instrument, and more or less laceration must inevitably take place in the great majority, if not in all cases. The ex- perience of this operation affords conclusive evi- dence that dilatation and laceration of the neck of the bladder is not necessarily followed by any serious or even noticeably untoward results. It is quite another question, however, whether dilata- tion is preferable to incision, and whether Allar- ton's method is likely to be generally accepted as superior to the lateral operation. Mr. Erichsen is of opinion that the division of the ring of tissue now alluded to, is always effected in the act of pushing the scalpel inwards into the bladder. A moderate internal incision, then, followed by free dilatation, is the principle adopted for the ex- traction of the stone by the best operators of the present day. But the student in surgery will naturally ask what is to be considered as a mode- rate incision ? while, on the other hand, the great variety of instruments employed during this part of the operation shows the numerous attempts made to supply by mechanical contrivances the want of tact, or to assist the operator in attaining a degree of safety and certainty which long prac- tice alone is supposed to give. The proper incision, according to the writer, is one by which a small portion of the apex only of the prostate is completely divided, the greater part of the body, and especially the capsule, being untouched. After notching the apex of the pros- tate, the knife, as it passes on, incises the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra on the left side of the veiumontanum, and penetrates slightly into the substance of the gland in an oblique direction; while at the moment of entering the bladder, it also divides the fibres which have been above alluded to as encircling the neck of the organ. An incision of this kind, followed by diIat.-»tion, wiil give exit to calculi under one iiiciv and a liall in diameter. For larger calculi, a modification of the lateral method should be adopted. It must be con- fessed, however, that the surgeon, while making