[54] INFLAMMATION. Btump is tlien to be wrapped round with several la3'ers of thin cotton cloth, impregnated with a mixture of carbolic acid, resin, and paraffin, a sheet of thin Mackintosh cloth being interposed between the last two layers of the gauze, so as to force the discharge (which is often considerable) to per- meate all the length of the antiseptic wrapping before reaching the outer air. Two more points need attention. One is to allow a free vent for the discharge which the stimulating acid renders so abundant, by means of a strip of oiled lint laid in an angle of the wound as a drain and carried along underneath the gauze ; and the other is to protect the wound itself from the continued irrita- tion of the acid. This is best effected by laying over the line of incision a " protective " of com- mon oiled silk, smeared with carbolic oil, or a bit of specially-prepared silk dipped freshly into the watery solution. In the after-treatment of such cases the same precautions must be sedulously ob- served, the part never being exposed save under a cloud of carbolised spray, and the oily and other dressings changed with great care and regularity. After the first day or two these dressings will sel- dom need to be changed, but the method in all its minuteness of detail must be practised until the lesion is converted into a mere superficial granu- lating surface. Where the injury is a contused and lacerated wound, inflicted some hours before the surgeon sees it, it becomes necessary to sponge into the wound, very thoroughly, a strong watery solution of car- bolic acid, before proceeding with the measures above described. Although carbolic acid is for many reasons the most convenient disinfecting agent for the majority of cases, it is not the only one. Any agent which combines volatility with hostility to low forms of life may be used in the same way. Chlo- rine, sulphurous acid, benzine, and creosote have all been so employed. _ Nearly two years before the publication ot Prof. Lister's first observations, Mr. Campbell de Morgan introduced the custom of sponging recent wounds with strong solutions of chloride of zinc. This he originally proposed with the view of de- stroying living cancer-cells scattered on the surface of an operation wound inflicted for the removal of malignant tumours ; but the eftect upon the healthy tissues was so remarkable, large wounds healing in forty-eight hours with hardly any suppuration or trace of animal smell in the discharges, that he was induced to recommend it in all cutting operations. And the practice is attended generally by the best results, whilst it has the great merit of being infinitely less complicated than the use of carbolic acid after Lister's method. (See BiBLioGRAPiiy.) 2 Ejcpectant TreatmciL—Theve are some'cuseo in which it suftices for the surgeon to put the patient under favourable conditions of warmth, rest, food, and comfort, and to watch hini meanwhile, lest anything should demand more active treatment. That expectant treatment is often reasonable in itself is shown by observations of the natural course of diseases when not interfered with, many of which are known, after a period of violence, to subside regularly of their own accord. It was ob- served by Baglivi (d. 1694, Practice o/ F/ij/sio, ^•c, Iranslatcd from ilic Latin, Lend. 1704) that " all diseases, especially those of an acute torm, i.e. fevers, " have a certain standard of increase and declension, and that a physician cannot change tills course and stated period by exhibiting medi- cines " without doing mischief; and that the "motions" which diseased parts " put forth to re- trieve their primitive state will be such as are regulated by Nature." Mr. Hilton (op. cil. p. 54) gives, as the " first professional thought" for the practitioner, " that Nature has a constant ten- dency to repair the injuries to which she may have been subjected, whether those injuries be the result of fatigue or exhaustion, inflammation or accident." These sentiments are doubtless the ex- pression of a fact ; and if any inflammation is to be dealt with which experience shows to decline speedily of itself, common sense forbids interference under ordinary circumstances. Thus there are few cases of mumps, erythema nodosum, or inflamma- tion afier injuries, in which the surgeon would dream of using special antiphlogistic measures. We may observe, by the way, that the term " expectation " has been used in several senses. By 1 Gideon Harvey—a coarse, shrewd medical satirist of the seventeenth centurj'—it was nsed to signify the impositions practised by the faculty, who de- luded their patients with useless remedies, and waited till time should send a cure. {Art of curing Diseases 1)1/ Expectation, hond. 1689.) By Stahl {Silcni, cjc. Ars Sanandi cum Expcdaiionc, Paris, 1730) it is treated as the study of the natural history of disease, and the plan of using remedies when really useful, not from mere routine. In the same sense it is used by Citizen Vitet in his Midecine Expectatite, published at Lyons, and dated 1st of Messidor, in the tenth year of the French Republic one and indivisible, a work remarkable for general good sense, except in the profusion of leeches ordered. But there is a good deal to be said on the abuse of " expectation," a fault of which the late Sir John Forbes cannot be acquitted in his Nature and Art in the Cure of Disease, Lond. 1857. There is a great deal of cant uttered about Nature, as if Nature never let patients go on from bad to worse, and as if "Nature" in the mind of a reasonable being meant any more than " matter of fact," or " what is." In the admir- able words of Porzio, Natura rei est Res ipsa. (Erasistraius, Romaj, 1682.) Neither can it be denied that the " Etforts of Nature " are often in- sufficient, asHofi^mann well showed, and sometimes as fatal as the worst achievements of meddlesome physic. What eftbrt of art can be more mis- chievous than that " eftbrt of Nature " which sets up spasm of the eyelids in ophthalmia, spasmodic cough, the spasms of dysenterj-, the exhausting drain of cholera, the profuse suppuration m osteitis ? all of which are to be suppressed, not as benevolent eftbrts of an intelligent agent, but as so many mischievous aberrations of the animal machine. Mucli is made of a saying of Hippo- crates (Epidem vi. ed. Kuhn, iii. 636), tiovaoiv fiicies ivrpol, as if 4>vai(s was (pvats, and as it it meant Nature was the physician of diseases, whereas </)i5(ries signifies *'temperaments. lliat celebrated expression of Lord Bacon is recited ad nauseam, " Man, the minister and interpreter of Nature," &.c. &c. ; whereas, in the noble words ot Torti, the physician had need be not the namster but the viixjistcr, and ought to control the natural actions if experience shows them to be mischievous.