JOINTS, DISEASiES OF, I'ase generally continues limited to these structures throughout. Mr. Aston Key believed that the ligamciitum teres was very frequently the sturting- poiut of inflammation of the hip-joint {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xviii. p. 230), and other surgeons have referred its origin to each of the other structures mentioned. " Without denying the possibility of disease sometimes commencing in the ligaments," 3Ir. Erichsen observes,—" illustrative of wliich we have a beautiful model in the Museum of Univer- sity College,—I believe that it more frequently ap- pears first in the cartilage incrusting the head of tiie femur ; for though it is extreme!}' difficult to prove this, opportunities of dissecting this form of hip disease in its early stages being verj' rare, yet the symptoms that attend it so closely resemble those accompanying the diseases of the articular cartilage in other joints, that it is difficult not to infer that this may be the case in the hip." (Op. cit) The symptoms of this form of disease are those of acute inflammation, coming on rapidly, and with great constitutional disturbance and pyrexia. Most excruciating pain is present in the joint, accom- panied bj' spasms and twitchings of the limb, in- creased at night. The slightest movement of the limb, the weight of the bedclothes, a fit of cough- ing, or the shaking of the bed, gives rise to the most intense agony; and in the intervals of his suffering the patient is in constant fear of a return of the pain. The limb is inverted, ad ducted, help- less and motionless ; the nates are flattened, and usually there is some fulness about the anterior part of the joint, under the pectineus muscle, or to its outer side above the trochanter. There is also sometimes true elongation of it, in consequence of the capsule becoming distended with synovial fluid, and pushing the head of the bone downwards. This may be so great in certain instances as to lead to rupture of the capsule, and sudden dislocation of the head of the bone on to the dorsum of the ilium, with great pain and shortening. This oc- currence is however very rare, and seldom takes place unless the articulation has been destroyed by an abscess within it. As ordinarily encountered, hip-joint disease is mostly chronic, and described as such; Mr. Coulson in his lectures applies the term Chronic Disease of the Hip-joint {The Lancet, vol. ii. 1854, p. 499) to all diseases of the hip. Chelius recognises an acute and a chronic form, the symptoms of which he divides into three very well defined stages. (See System nf Surgery, iranslaled by J. F. South, vol. i. p. 250.) Mr. Aston Key says, " the hip-joint is less frequently the subject of acute than of chronic in- flammation, probably from being well protected from the influence of atmospheric changes, to which the knee and most other paris are exposed. In ■ !ie adult, acute disease of the joint is occasionally •en, in which the whole structure of the joint, •vrlilage as well as ligament, undergoes complete hsorgiuiisation in the space of a few weeks." '. ^fed. Chir. Trans, vn]. xviii. p. 230.) The terminations of the acute form ofdiscase are various, according to the constitution of the patient iiid the treatment pursued. The most favourable ivill be a subacute condition of disease, and a slow recovery, with a stiff and partially ankylosed and wasted limb. This may happen without suppuration. But in the majority of instances, abscess forms, and the patient is worn out by the continued irritation 139 of diseased bone, or by the -profuse discharge; or, shortening ensues from absorption of the head of the bone, or its dislocation; the cavity of the abscess may ultimately contract, the carious bone exfoliate, and the sinuses close after years of suf- fering. Under the most favourable circumstances, when once the joint has been acutely inflamed, a year or two will elapse before the patient can use his limb with any degree of security. But the safety of the patient depends on the prevention of suppuration, which can rarely be done in strumous persons. If it occur in an adult, hectic and ex- haustion will certainly prove fatal; but children may recover with permanent lameness. (See Erichnen's Work, already referred to, p. 738.) Acetabidar Coaalgia.— This is believed by Mr. Erichsen to be the most fatal form of hip disease. The disease originates in the pelvic bones, and the pain is deseribed as existing rather iiround the hip than in the joint itself; the latter however is tender on pressure, and the patient cannot bear on the limb; but no alteration takes place in its length, although it becomes greatly wasted. " Abscess invari.ably forms, perhaps at first within the pelvic cavity; but it soon presents externally. Sometimes it passes down by the side of the rectum, or through the sciatic notch to the gluteal region; but generally it points near the pubea, under Poupart's ligament." This is followed by hectic fever, exhaustion, and death. Dislocation rarely takes place; but when the disease has arisen in and has destroyed the head of the femur,the mere action of the muscles of the joint brings this about. Sometimes the destruction of the acetabulum is so extensive that the head of the femur penetrates it^ and passes into the pelvic cavity.] Sir B. Brodie has had opportunities of dissecting some diseased hip-joints both in the incipient and advanced stages of the complaint. From bis ob- servations, it appears—1st. That the disease com- mences with ulceration of the cartilages, generally that of the acetabulum first, and that of the femur afterwards. 2ndly. That the ulcerationextendstothe bones, which become carious; the head of the femur diminishing in size, and the acetabulum becoming deeper and wider. 3rdly. That an abscess forms in the joint, which after some time makes its way by ulceration through the synovial membrane and capsular ligament into the thigh and nates, or even through the bottom of the acetabulum into the pelvis. Sir A. Cooper showed Sir B. Brodie two specimens, in which the abscesses had burst into the rectum. Sometimes the matter makes its way th rough the acetabulum into the pelvis, or even, into the vagina. Some years ago, there was, in the London Hospital, a case in which both hips were affected, and the abscesses communicated with tile cavity of the pelvis through the acetabula. (See Scod, On Chronic Tii/lammation, &c. p. lOG.) In the Museum of University College is a beautiful specimen, in which the head of the femur 1ms passed through the bottom of the acetabulum into the pelvis. In a case, under Dr. Mackenzie, of Glasgow, a hid of sixteen died of enormously enlarged liver; but, on dissection, a communi- cation was found through the bottom of the acetal)ulum, between the canty of the hip-joint and tiie colon, smooth, as if of long standinn-. Another sinus, communicating with the joint led into the thigh. In Mr. Liston's collection is a specimen of extensive destruction of the acetabulum,