206 LTTnOTOMY can aecompliRli this; and wc believe tlie opinion of surgeons is Ijecoming general, that there is nothing to lie gained by making the incision in the limited space afforded in the median line, rather than through the mudi more convenient region of the ischa-rcctal fossa; or by substituting forcible dilatation and laceration of the prostate gland for the limited incision now almost univer- sally recommended.] The High Operation Was first described in 1556, by Pierre Franco, in his Treatise on Hernia, ed. 1. He performed it on a child, two years old, after finding the calculus too large to admit of being extracted from the perineum, where he had first made an opening; his remarks, however, tended to dis- courage the practice. Rousset recommended it, with great zeal, in his book entitled Parlus Ccb- swn'Ms, printed in 1591; but he never performed the operation himself. Folet mentions the trial of it in the Hotel-Dien, but, without entering into particular causes of its discontinuance, merely says that it was found inconvenient. About the year 1719 it was first performed in England, by Dr. Douglass, and, after him, practised by others. (Sharp's Operations.) The patient being laid on a square table, with his legs hanging off, and fastened to the sides of it by a ligature, passed above the knee, his head and body lifted up a little by pillows, so as to relax the abdominal muscles, and his hands held steady by some assistants; as much barley-water as he could bear, which was often about eight ounces, and some- times twelve, was injected through the catheter into the bladder. In order to prevent the reflux of the water, an assistant grasped the penis the moment the catheter was withdrawn, holding it on one side, in such a manner as not to stretch the skin of the abdomen; then, with a round-edged knife, an incision, about four inches long, was made between the recti and pyramidal muscles, through the membrana adiposa, as deep as the bladder, bringing its extremity almost down to the penis; after this, with a crooked knife, the incision was continued into the bladder, and carried a little under the os pubis; and, im- mediately upon the water flowing out, the forefinger of the left hand was introduced, which directed the forceps to the stone. (S/iorp's Operations.) Sabatier disapproves of making the cut in the bladder from below, upwards, lest the knife injure the peri- toneum. {Med. Oper. t. iii. p. 160.) Although this method of operating appears at first view feasible enough,several objections soon brought it into disuse. 1. The irritation of a stone often causes such a thickened and contracted state of the bladder, that this viscus will not admit of being distended, so as to rise above the pubes. 2. It the operator should break the stone, the fragments cannot be easily washed away, but, remaining behind, forming a nucleus for a future stone. 3. Experience has proved, that the high operation is very commonly followed by extravasation of urine, attended with suppuration and gangrenous mischief in the cellular tissue of the pelvis. I his happens because tlie urine more readily escapes out of the wound in the bladder than through the urethra; and also because, when the bladder con- tracts, and sinks behind the os pubis, the wound in it ceases to be parallel to that in the linea alba and integuments, and becomes deeper and deeper. For the prevention of these ill consequences, says Sabatier, it will be in vain to make the patient lie in a horizontal posture, and keep a catheter introduced, as Uousset and Morand recommended— the bad eflccts being still neither less frequent, nor less fatal. (See Med. Operatoire, t. iii. p. 101, ed. 2.) And Sir Everard Home confesses, that while the high operation for the stone had no other channel but the wound for carrying oiT the urine, it seemed to him a method which ought never to be adopted. "The urine almost alwaj-s insinu- ating itself into the cellular membrane behind the pubes, producing sloughs, and consequently ab- scesses." (On Striclitres, vol. iii. p. 359, 8vo. London, 1821.) A. The danger of exciting in- flammation of the peritoneum. 5. The injection itself is exceedingly painful, and, however slow the fluid be injected, the bladder can seldom be dilated enough to make the operation absolutely secure; and, when hastily dilated, its tone may be destroyed. (See Sluirp, Allan, Sabalicr, &c.) Some surgeons are of opinion that, when a stone in the bladder is known to be very large, no at- tempt ought to be made to extract it from the perineum. Scarpa declares that the lateral opera- tion should not be practised when the calculus exceeds twenty lines in its small diameter. (See Memoir on the C^dtiny Qoryet of Hatcldns, p. 8, transl. by Briggs.) In such cases, it is true, the surgeon may perform the lateral operation, and try to break the stone. But ought this proceeding to be preferred to the high operation ? I allude par- ticularly to cases in which the stone is known to be of very large dimensions before any operation is begun. Were the lateral operation commenced, the stone, if too large for extraction, must, of course, be broken; for it is then too late to adopt the high operation with advantage. That such things have been done, however, and yet the pa- tients escaped, is a truth which cannot be denied. Deschamps mentions an instance, in which M. Lassus, after using Hawkins's gorget, could not draw out the calculus, and he therefore immediately performed the high operation, and the patient recovered. Indeed, the second example of the high operation on record was executed by Franco under similar circumstances, and the patient was saved. I have also heard of a modern French surgeon, who began with the lateral operation, but findmg a large calculus, ended with performing the high operation, without the least delay or hesitation: the patient died. Mr. S. Sharp, an excellent practical surgeon in his time, after noticing with great impartiality the objections which were then urged against the high operation, says that he should not be surprised if, hereafter, it were revived and practised with suc- cess; an observation which implied that he foresaw that the method was capable of being so improved as to free it from its most serious inconveniences. In fact, since his time, various attempts have been made to introduce the high operation anew, and upon improved principles. Frere Come, m parti- cular, knew very well that there were circumstances (as, for instance, a calculus above a certain size, disease of the urethra or pr°st"'V\f''" ' where the lateral operation was l.jible to g eat difliculties and disadvantages, and where the high operation, if it could be perfected, would be a fitter and safer mode of proceeding. However, it was