have been cured without the removal of the part, and certain obstinate cases have yielded to the repeated application of leeches under the tongue, after a vast number of other remedies had been tried in vain. In the Encydop'tdie Metho- dique, art. Laiigue, there is an account of an affec- tion of the tongue (reputed to be cancerous, though this may be doubted), which got completely well under a very simple plan of treatment. A woman, thirty-five years of age, subject to cutaneous diseases and ill-conditioned ulcers, comphiined for seven or eight months of little swellings, accom- panied with heat and pain, which made their ap- pearance on the edge and towards the apex of the tongue. At length the part began to swell, harden, and to be the seat of lancinating pains. Its surface became irregular and rough, and ail one L side of it was considerably swollen. The patient f could not put her tongue out of her mouth, nor swallow any thing except liquids, and her breath was intolerably foetid. Various sedative remedies L had been employed without success. Cicuta had been used as a topical application: it had also been exhibited internally in large doses. The patient had taken for a long while the bichloride of mer- cury ; but nothing proved of any avail. At length the patient was so tired of trying the effect of medicines and applications that she gave them up entirely, and contented herself with trying the ex- periment of keeping honey continually in her mouth. As this method seemed to give her some ease, she was prevailed upon to persist in it, and in this way the pains were gradually appeased, the swelling was diminished, and at the end of two or three months she was quite well, except that an indurated cicatrix remained on the part affected, and considerably obstructed the extension of the tongue on that side. On this case, however, it might be remarked, that the retardation of the cure seems also ascrib- able to the injury of the health produced by the hemlock, mercury, &c , and that the amendment following their discontinuance might rather have arisen from the consequent improvement of the patient's health than from any effect of the honey. Some inveterate diseases of the tongue may be cured by hemlock. In the work last cited is mentioned an instance of a very unhealthy-looking ulcer, near the apex of the tongue, attended with a considerable thickening of the part, and of some duration, which was cured by givinsj large doses of cicuta. But of all the medicines which have the greatest reputation for their beneficial effects upon malignant ulcers of the lip and tongue, none per- haps is deserving of so much confidence as arsenic, (bee C. Lane's Case of dl-conditioncd Ulcer of the Tongue succcssfiillij treated iy Arsenic; Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 201.) Mr. Earle's report of the favourable effects of hj-oscyamus I have already noticed : he speaks also in praise of the pulp of CJUTots, retained on the ulcer and frequently changed. {Op. cit. vol. xii. p. 2!iG.) However, Jiotwiihstanding many facts of this kind on record, medicines shiiuld not be tried too long, that is to say, sd as to let the disease attain a condition in which it will no longer admit of being cut away. When the disease m:ikes progress the knife should be enipliiyeJ before it is too late. Baron Diipiiytren refers to an instance of paralysis of llw. left half of the lonijue, with an atrophy confined to the same portion of it: the TONSILS. " faculty of taste, however, was retained, which led Dupuytren to suspect that the lingual nerve was principally concerned. The patient lived two years with this affection, preserving his intellectual powers nearly to the last moments of his existence; but his genital functions had been much impaired. A few days before he died symptoms of compres- sion of the brain came on. In the post mortem examination many hydatids were found at the base of the cerebellum, one of which had in- sinuated itself into the anterior condyloid foramen, and made pressure on the lingual nerve. This fact seemed to Dupuytren to corroborate the physiological doctrine, that this nerve is more especially concerned in motion and nutrition. (See Dupuytren, in Clinique Chir. t. iii. p. 364.) Sometimes polypi grow from tlie tongue. A case of removal of such a tumor is given in a modern work. (See Edinb. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii.) " Solid tumors, generally fatty, are sometimes formed in the loose cellular tissue under the tongue, and cause the same kind of inconvenience ,is a ranula. Mr. Listen has removed some tumors of large size from this situation by dividing freely the membrane of the mouth, and detaching the swellings with the finger from its cellular attach- ments. (See Liston on Practical Suryej-y, p. 2'19.) There is a good specimen of this disease in Mr. Liston's museum. George Lewis Cooper. Louis, in M^m. de I'Acad. (ie Chir. t. v. flow- /ajirf, Aglossostomographie, ou Description d'une Bouche tans Langue, laquelle parle, et fait naturelle- ment toutes ses autres fonctions. 12mo. Saumnr 1630. Lmcig, Sur les Maladies de la Lane-ue, in M6- moires de I'Acad. de Chir. t. v.; also the Memoir of De la Malle,- in the same volume. Encydopidie M<;thodique, Partie Chir. art. Langue. Sir Everard aome's Piact. Obs. on Cancer, 8vo. Lend. 1805. Langenbech, Neue Bibl. b. ii. p. 487, 8vo. Hanover, 1820. Ciaue and f/. BnWe, in Med. Chir. Trans vol. vm. andxn. S. Travers, Op. cit. vol. xv Luton, On Practical Surgery, p. 230. 8vo. Lond.' 1837; and other works cited in this article. TONSILS.—[The tonsils are subject to acnte inflammation, terminating usually in abscess; to chronic enlargement or hypertrophy unaccom- panied for the most part by inflammatory action • and to sloughing and rapid destructive ulceration! The first of these affections is known by the name' of Cynanche tonsillaris. Cynanche tonsillaris appears to be dependent upon a disturbed state of the constitution, to occur m early adult life, and in middle age, rarely in childhood or old age, frequently recurring in the same individual, and to affect many members of the same family. It is usually ushered in by general malaise, rigors, and by great debility. The pulse is quickened, the tongue is coated with a white creamy secretion, the face becomes flushed, and much difficulty in swallowing is experienced. The local symptoms are pain at the back of the throat some external swelling at the lateral and upper part of the neck with tenderness on pressure, the moiilh is opened with difficulty, and on e,\amini. g its interior, the tonsils and soft palate are found to be tumefied, rod, and excessively tender to the touch. As ihese symptoms increase, the voice be- comes hoarse and indistinct, and thick tenacious mucus escapes in large qiianiity from the mouth or requires removal. The deglutition becomes more difliadt, and after much suffering and distress