VENEREAL DISEASE. tile use of several Inert insignificant medicines. Aiul, as I linve previously explained, the possibi- lity of curing chancres and other venereal com- plaints without mercury was long since remarked b}' Dr. Clutterbuck, who thence very justly in- ferred that the healing of a sore without this re- medy was no test that it was not venereal. (See Jiemui-ks on the Opinions of the late John Hunter, 1799.) But, although the whole hist&ry of the venereal disease, and of the various articles of the materia niedica, if carefully reflected upon, must have led to the same coucUisioo, the truth has been only of late years placed in such a view as to command the general belief of all the most e.xperienced surgeons ill this and other countries of Europe. I do not mean to say that the truth was not seen and re- marked by several of the older writers; for that it was so any man may convince himself by referring to several works quoted in the course of this article. But it is to be understood, all indecision could never be renounced so long as prejudices interfered with the only rational plan which could be adopted ■with the view of bringing the question to a final settlement ; I mean experiments on a large and impartial scale, open to the observation of nume- rous judges, yet under such control as insured the rigorous trial of the practice. Nor could such in- vestigation be so well made by any class of prac- titioners as the army surgeons, whose patients are numerous, obliged to foHo-w strictly the treatment prescribed, without any power of going from hos- pital to hospital, or from one surgeon to another, as caprice may dictate, or of eluding the observa- tion of the medical attendants after a seeming re- covery. And here 1 must take the opportunity of stating that, as far as my judgment extends, the most important and cautious document yet extant, on the two questions of the possibility and expedi- ency of curing the venereal disease without mer- cury, is the paper of Mr. Rose. For let it not be presumed that, because the army suj-geons find the venereal disease curable without mercury, they mean to recommend the total abandonment of that remedy for the distemper, any more than they Would argue that possibility and expediency are synonymous terms. At the time when Mr. Rose published his observations, he had tried the non- mercurial treatment in the Coldstream Regiment of Guards, during a year and three quarters, and had thus succeeded in curing all the ulcers on tlie parts of generation which he met with in that pe- riod, together with the constitutional symptoms to which lliey gave rise. " I may not be warranted in asserting (says this gentleman) that many of these were venereal, but, undoubtedly, a consider- able number of them had <ill the appearances of primary sores, produced by the venereal virus, and arose under circumstances where there had been at least a possibility of that virus having been ap- plied. Admitting that there is nothing so charac- teristic in a chancre as to furnish incontrovertible proof of its nature, it will yet be allowed that there are many symptoms common to such sores, although not entirely peculiar to them; and when- ever these are met with, there are strong grounds to suspect that they are the effects of the syphilitic j-^j. ipgt(jppg^ appearing shortly after suspicious connection, where there is loss o( substance, a want of disposition to granulate, and an indurated margin and base^ there is certainly a 933 probability of that poison being present. Amongst a number of cases of such a description, taken in- discriminatel}', the probability of some being ve- nereal is materially increased, and must at last approach nearly to a certainty. On this principle, some of the sores here referred to must have been, venereal. They were also seen by different sur- geons, on ivhose judgment I could rely, who agreed in considering many of them as well-marked cases of true chancre." (Rose, in Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 357, &c.) The men thus treated were examined almost every week, for a considerable time after their apparent cure, " both that the first approach of constitutional symptoms might be observed, and that any deception from an underhand use of mercury might be guarded against." (P. 359.) Sixty cases of ulcers on the penis were also cured by Mr. Dease in the York Hospital, by means of simple dressings, the only general remedy being occasional pur- gatives. The practice was likewise extensively tried by Mr. Whymperand Mr. Good, surgeons of the Guards, with the same kind of success. In Mr. Rose's practice, all idea of specific remedies was entirely laid aside. The patients were usually con- fined to their beds, and such local applications were employed as the appearances of the sores seemed to indicate. Aperient medicines, antimony, bark, vitriolic acid, and occasionally sarsaparilla, were administered. (P. 36&) " Upon an average (says Mr. Rose), one oui of every three of the sores thus treated was followed by some form or other of constitutional affection: this was in most instances mild, and sometimes so slight that it would have escaped notice, if it had not been carefully sought for. The constitutional symptoms were evidently not such as could be regarded as venereal, if we give credit to the commonly re- ceived ideas on the subject. Caries of the hones, and some of the least equivocal symptoms, did not occur. In no instance was there that uniform progress, with unrelenting fury, from one order of symptoms and parts affected to another, which is considered as an essential characteristic of true syphilis." {Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 422.) The constitutional symptoms also yielded without the aid of mercury ; and frequently primary sores, corresponding to what had been called the true chancre, with indurated base, were cured in this manner, yet were followed by no secondary symptoms. We are also informed that " several cases occurred of a cluster of ill-conditioned sores over the whole inner surface of the prepuce ; and behind the corona glandis j and also of a circle of small irritable sores, sitiuted on the thickened and contracted ring at the extreme margin of the prepuce. These occasionally produce bulioes." one of the sores of this desmpiion met with by Mr. Hose were follotced by any constitutional affection. (Vol. cit. p. 370.) He hears testimony to the ill effects of mercury and stimulants in case's of phagedenic ulcers, and confirms a not uncom- mon opinion, that they are seldom followed by secondary symptoms ; which opinion should be qualified with the condition mentioned by Mr. Guthrie {Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 5G6J, that no mercury be given. Lastly, as I have already stated, Mr. Rose observed that most ol' the cases i)f [inpular eruptions followed ulcers which were not very deep, and healed without much diffi- culty. (P. 399.)