MORTIFICATION, 304 tlie essential condition; and hence, instead of callinp; the disorder gangvcsna senilis, or sponUmeoiis gan- grene, he thinks" it would be bettor to call it gan- grene from obliteration of the arteries. Several years ago lie adopted the doctrine, that ossification of the small arteries is a cause of gangrfcna senilis. {Essai sur PAnal. Pathol, t. ii. p. 57, 8vo. Pans, 1816.) He joins Dupuytren, however, ni regard- ing arteritis as the most usnal cause of this spe- cies of mortification ; but adds, that neither ar- teritis, nor ossification of the arteries, will bring on the disorder, unless the course of the blood be completely intercepted by it. In two interesting cases reported bv him, some of the arteries of the leg were blocked up witli lymph, and calcareous deposits found extending even to the small rami- fications of them. (See Anat. Pathol, livr. xxvii. fol. Paris, 1816.) " Nothing (remarks M. Cruveilhier) is more subject to variety, than the extent of obliteration in gangrene from arteritis. Thus, in a case com- municated to the Anatomical Society by M. Mai- sonneuve, the lower part of the aorta, the common iliac arteries, and the external and internal iliac, the popliteal, tibial, and fibular, were completely obliterated, and yet the mortification was exceed- ing! v limited. In another instance recorded m this work (Amii. Pathol, livr. xxxii.), the obliteration was restricted to the pr.sterior tibial and fibular arteries, the anterior tibial being quite pervious. How does it happen, that though the anterior tibial was free, the circulation in the Posterior tibial and fibular arteries was not re-established .-^ For this plain reason : the means of communica- tion between these different orders of vessels were intercepted. Had the posterior tibial and fibular arteries themselves been pervious, gangrene would have taken place not the less from the obliteration of the small arterial divisions. Obliteration of the small arteries is inherent in spontaneous gangrene : the obliteration of tne larger ones is only an acces- sory circumstance. If the published cases ol Bangra;na senilis or spontaneous mortification be read, not two of them will correspond in respect to the extent of the obliteration of the large ar- teries. Thus, in the case above cited, the end ot the aorta, and tlie two common iliac arteries, were obstructed with clots, and yet the mortification was confined to some of the toes of one limb. In other examples, the great and middle-sized arte- ries are peifectlv free ; but as numerous lesser ones are obliterated, the mortification is very ex- tensive. Sometimes the clots are very dense, and their loss of colour, and intimate adhesion to the sides of the arterv, prove their long standing ; while in other instances, clots so recent are met with in the great arteries, that they cannot be looked upon as the cause of the disease but as produced in the final stage of it, and perhaps m the last moments of life." Cruveilhier considers the acute pain exncrienced in the artery some time previously to the appearance of spontaneous gangrene, and tlie hardness of the vessel, which feels to the finger like a tense cord, as proofs that the clot precedes the mortification. He takes this same pain as an argument, that the oblite- ration of the vessels is the result of niflanimalion. {Anat. Pathol, livr. xxvii. fol. Pans, 1036.) [Acute pain is felt in the arteries when suddenly obstiucied, or when irritating substances are in- jected into them.] In every case of gangrajna senilis, which Pro- fessor Carswell has examined after death, the arteries of the limb were obliterated to such an extent as to interrupt the circulation of the blood. The obstructing cause consisted, in five or six cases, of a fibrous tissue, found either in the walls, or cavities of the arteries, and which had converted these vessels into nearly solid cords of ligamentous consistence. This state was traced from the toes more than half way up tlie leg: it was always connected with ossification of the larger branches and trunks of the thigh, and other parts of the body. In two other cases, the ob- struction depended on extensive ossification of the principal arteries of the limb ; and, in several others, it was produced by solid fibrine formed around spicula of bone, projecting from the interntil surface of the arteries. Connecting these states of the arteries with the external appearances of the mortification, there cannot, as Dr. Carswell conceives, remain a doubt, that this form of the disease is the immediate consequence of a deficient supply of arterial blood, from a mere mechanical obstacle to the circulation of tliis fluid. Professor Carswell does not adopt, however, the view advanced by Dupuytren (see Cliit. CJiir. t. iv.), and espoused by Cruveilhier, that the mortification originates from arteritis. " For the presence of fibrous, fibro-cartilaginous, and os- seous tissue in the arteries is no proof that in- flammatiim had ever existed in these vessels. (See Carsweirs Tllustrations oftlieElem. Forms of Disease, Fasc. 7.) v i ■ [Degeneration and embolism take the place in modern nomenclature of what used to be called arteritis.] Fabricius Hildanus mentions a fatal case of mortification of the feet and legs, where the patient was in the vigour of life, and apparently of good constitution. After death, a scirrhous tumor was found surrounding and compressing the inferior vena cava and aorta, near their bifurcation, so as to prevent the free circulation of the blood in the lower extremities. ]\Iortifi- cation 'of the extremities also sometimes occ-iirs from deficient circulation, in the progress of dis- eases of the heart. In a case of dropsy of the chest, Sir A. Cooper has seen a small spot on the leg become all at once black, without any appear- ance of inflammation. - , • n [The theory of embolism may be very briefly stated. ^Vhen the blood coagulates in any of the veins (thrombosis), a portion of such clot may be displaced, and carried around in the venous cir- culation, to the right side of the heart. It depends on its size whether it stops in the richt side of tlie heart, or in the pulmon.nry aitery, or one of its large branches, or whether it passes on and is arrested in some smaller vessel in the lungs. The effect will vary from sudden death, to pulmonary gangrene, or in- flammation of one or more portions of lung. _ t&ee rnflammalion, Causes of.) If the clot were m one of the mesenteric systems of veins, it will be arrested iu some branch of the rena porta; and produce disease of the liver. Small P">"»"«. f '"^ij"^ fibrine, detached from the walls o ^ 'c lef s Je of the heart, mav be carried to and lodge in tiie a t ries of any oi-gan or member; producing soften- h la d paralysis if in the brain; amauros,s, or des-. rue ive suppurate of the eye; hbnnous deposit m