NECROSIS, occur, when the bone is sound, and may not happen when the bone is affected. None of the preceding symptoms convey such in- formation, as to leave no doubt of the positive exist- ence of necrosis. The touch is the only thing, which can give ns this knowledge, in those cases where the bone is not too deeply situated,the sinuses not tor- tuous, or obstructed with fungous growths. When the fistulous openings are large, the finger may be introduced. If in this way the bone can be felt to be extensively uncovered by the periosteum, the surgeon may conclude, that all such portion of the bone has perished. He may be still more certain of the fact, when he finds the edges of the denuded bone imequal and rough. The examinations, made directly with the finger, give the most correct and exact information of the state of the bone; but the orifices of the shrases are sometimes so small, that the finger cannot be intro- duced without causing great pain. A probe must then be used for the purpose of ascertaining the extent of the denudation of the bone; whether its edges are rough; whether the dead portion is loose, and likely to separate soon. Sometimes the dead fragment of bone, called the sequestrum, protrudes from the ulcer or is visible on separating its edges. When it is black, there cannot be a doubt of its being actually dead; but, on the other hand, when its whiteness is increased, the diagnosis is difficult, because bones being na- turally white, much experience is necessary to be able to judge whether they are so in excess. It merits attention, also, that the black colour of the bone is not owing to the necrosis itself, but seems rather to depend upon the fragment having been exposed to the air. In fact, dead pieces of bone with which the air comes into contact, often turn black, while those, which are covered with matter, retain their whiteness. The cylin- drical portion of a humerus, which was almost totally affected with necrosis, was universally black at the part, which protruded through the flesh ; but the rest, which lay under the integu- ments, was white. (Weidmann de Nccrosi Ossiwn, p. 19. ettab. 9. fig. 1.) [When the vascular supply to a bone is suddenly and completely arrested, so that it dies rapidly, the dead_ part presents a white, or pale yellow colour, without any apparent change in its struc- ture ; but if the stoppage of the circulation be slow and gradual, the necrosed portion is of a brown or black colour; this is owing to the presence of de- composed blood within it, which has stained its whole thickness, and, in this case, the bone is often softer than usual. When discoloration results from exposure to the air, it does not extend deeper than the surface.] If the early symptoms of the disease are mild, the surgeon may infer, that it is only a superficial portion of the bone, which is about to bo separated. But this judgment will bo more certain, if con- firmed by examination witli tiie finger, or probe • or il the swelling, which occurred in the becinninff" has n<,t spread beyond the affected point, and if the pain affects only the outer part of the bono In a case of this sort, there is also great probability that the dead bone will bo separated within a moderate time. It is also of importance to ascertain the exist- ence of an internal necrosis, and to learn whether »t 18 situated in the spongy substance, or in that 327 part of the bone which forms the wall of the me- du lary canal ; whether it affects only a portion, or extends to the whole body of the bone. When there is an internal necrosis, says Weidmann, the disease is generally more aggravated, and of longer duration; and in the first stage, the patient is affected with severe symptoms, intolerable pain, loss of rest, a great deal of fever, profuse perspira- tions, and such disorder of the system as may prove fatal, unless the patient be young and strong. The hard swelling, which was observable at the commencement of the disease, increases but slowlj', and extends very gradually over the circumference' of the limb, while the skin j^et remains free from redness and tension. If the pari be soiiuwliat yougUy handled, the pain, tvhich is fixed in the hone, IS not rendered more acute, as ivould happen, ivere the case an external injlammation. In this suffer- ing condition, the patient continues a good while, before the escape of matter brings a degree of re- lief. When the pus is formed, it spreads through the adjacent cellular tissue, amongst the muscles and other parts, and generally finds its way to the surface, after a considerable time, by several open- ings, which may be very distant from the main collection of matter, as also from each other, some- times in diametrically opposite situations. The evacuation of the pus, however, does not produce any material subsidence of the swelling. The pus is of good quality, and issues in large quantities from the ulcerated apertures, the quantity, however, not heing increased ivhen pressure is made. If some of the openings heal, others are formed ; but in general, the edges become callous, and have no dis- position to cicatrize. When the case presents the foregoing symptoms, and the weakened limb can neither bear the action of the muscles, nor the weight of the body (and by either of these causes Its shape may become altered), the surgeon may conclude that the disease is an internal necrosis. But, in order to avoid mistake, he should introduce into the^ sinuses a probe, which, passing through tlie openings in the adjacent bone, will touch the dead piece which it contains, and which will some- times be even distinguished to be loose and move- able. The extent of the sequestrum must he judged of, hy the extent of the sivelling, and the distances, between the apertures in the bony shell, tvMvh inchides the sequestrum. [Troja, David, Bichat, and others, have stated that disease of the medullary membrane always produces necrosis of the whole thickness of the bono : that such is not invariably the case has long been shown, but it should be borne in mind that when necrosis arises from some affection of the medullary tissue, the internal lamellffi of the bone usually perish to a very considerable extent.] The surgeon should also endeavour to ascer- tain with the probe, whether there is only a single sequestrum, or several. When there are several, they may be felt with the probe in different phices, down to which this instrument is passed, and the removal of one, or two of the fragments, is not followed by a cure. It ought to be remem- bered, however, that this same fragment may be touched by the probe in several din'erent places when it is very extensive. If there are several dead pieces of bone, situated at a distance from each other, each of them is generally accompanied with a distinct swelling and sinuses. Frequently these fragments are so concealed by new bone, or