JOINTS, MSEASES OF. tion. In rheumatic cases the pain is more general and diffused over the whole joint. [Mr. Barwell has drawn attention to the dis- tinctive differences between strumous articular osteitis and strumous sj'novitis in tlie earlier stages, which we may relate in this place. Both of those forms of strumous disease come under tiie general denomination of strumous arthritis, or white swell- ing, properly so called. In strumous articular osteitis the first symptom is heavy dull pain, with limping or other imperfec- tion in the use of the limb ; tliis comes on before any swelling is perceptible. The pain is generally increased in bed, and is subject to variations; sometimes quite disappearing for a time and again returning. The swelling at first is confined to one portion of the joint,—for instance, at the knee,—the npper when the femur, the lower when the tibia, is affected. Afterwards, though the whole joint be enlarged, the tumefaction is more marked, harder, and larger over the bone primarily affected, and is nearly always on one side of the joint. The divi- sion between the bones remains evident to the touch. In all but the deepest placed bones the integuments over them are sensiblj' hotter. In strumous synovitis the swelling is either before pain or is discovered with the pain. Pain being a later symptom as regards visible swellings, yet, when it comes on, is constant. The bones forming the articulation are blended by the swell- ing into one rounded shapeless mass, which overlies both parts of the joint equally, and conceals greatly or altogether the line of junction between the two bones. There is no preference of place; the swelling is equable over the whole joint. The integuments are not at all, or scarcely, increased in temperature. (Diseases of Joints, p. 247.)] Mr. Lloyd thinks that the scrofulous white swelling may be distinguished from ail other dis- eases of the joints by its being attended with less pain, by the great degree of external swelling often existing for a long time before matter forms in the cavity of the articulation, and by the swelling being but little diminished by any discharges of matter which may take place. In its first stage, before the interior of the joint is affected, it may be distinguished from primary ulceration of the cartilages by the pain not being much increased by motion. Tlio grating produced by moving the joint is also commonly less in this disease than in ordinary ulceration of the cartil.-iges. {Lloyd, On Scrofula, p. 142.) And, according to Sir Benjamin Brodie, the principal criterion between scrofulous diseases of joints and tlie primary ulceration of cartilages, is the little degree of pain in the former cases, which is never much complained of before an abscess forms, nor particularly severe, " except in a few instances, and in the most advanced stage of the disease, when a portion of ulcerated bone has died, and having cxi'oliated, so as to lie loose in the cavity of the joint, irritates the parts with which it :s in contact, and tlius becomes a source of constant torment." {Brodic's Path. Ohs. ed. 5, p. 220.) It seems probable that cases in which the can- cellous structure of the bones is found quite undis- eased, and in which the mass of disease is confiued to the soft parts, are not scrofulous white swellinrrs. Few persons who have attained the age of five^ and-twenty without haviwj hud the least st/inptom ofscrrfiila ever experience after this period of life a first attack of the white swelling of the strumous 135 kind. The general correctness of this observation, I believe, is universally admitted ; and that there are but few exceptions to it is confirmed by the statements of Volpi, of Pavia. However, Mr. Lloyd attended a man who, at the age of between forty and fifty, died of phthisis, and had at the time a scrofulous ankle, besides several abscesses about his hip and groin. And the same gentleman met with another patient, upwards of forty years old, with a similar disease. {On Scrofula, p. 137.) But if these patients had had no marks of scrofula in their younger days—a circumstance not specified, —they form deviations from what is usual, as indeed Mr. Lloyd seems to admit. My own observations lead me to concur with Sir B. Brodie that scrofu- lous affections of the joints, so frequent in children, are rare after the age of thirty. {Pathol. Ohs. p. 196, ed. 3.) This observation, however, is to be received as correct only with reference to persons who have been free from scrofula up to that period of life. I attended (Aug, 1829) a woman nearly forty, who had been first attacked with a scrofulous white swelling of the left knee about a year pre- viously; but then she had had enlarged glands in the neck in her youth, and a scrofulous ulcer of long duration was still open on one of her legs. All cases in which the internal structure of the heads of the bones become softened previouslj' to the affection of the cartilages and soft parts are probably scrofulous. Mr. Russell has noticed the frequent enlarge- ment of the lymphatic glands in the groin, in con- sequence of the irritation of the disease in the knee; but he justly adds that the secondary affec- tion never proves long troublesome. In the knee joint, when the bones are diseased, the head of the tibia always suffers more than the condyles of the thigh-bone. {Russell.) The ar- ticular surface of the femur sometimes has not a single rough or carious point, notwithstanding that of the tibia may have suffered a great deal. The cartilaginous coverings of the heads of the bones are generally eroded first at their edges; and in the knee the cartilage of the tibia is always more aff^ected than that "covering the condyles of the thigh-bone. Indeed, when wliite swellings have their origin in the bones, and the knee is the seat of the disorder, there is some ground for supposing that it is in the tibia that the morbid mischief usually first commences. The ligaments of tlie Imee are occasionally so weakened or destroyed that the tibia and fibula become more or less dislocated backward, and drawn towards the tuberosity of the iscliium by the powerful action of the ilexor muscles of the leg. It is observed by Sir B. Brodie, that just as ulceration of the cartilages is sometimes followed by dislocation of the hip, so we find that disloca- tion of the knee occasionally takes phice from the same cause. Wlicn there has been considerable distension of the soft parts, in consequence of ul- ceration extending to them, the head of the tibia is gradually drawn backwards by tiie action of the flexor muscles; and Sir B. Brodie has even known this happen previously to the formation of any abscesses. (Pathol. Obs. p. 172, ed. 2.) I have also seen one or two examples of this, and another case, in which tlic leg could be bent to each side for a considerable distance, both wlien the knee was extended and bent,— a state implying a preternatural looseness of the ligaments.