457 PHLEGMASIA DOLENS. exertions of the lower abdominal and other muscles, inserted in the pelvis or thighs and cellular tissue; cold and moisture; suppression of lochia and milk; errors of diet; standing or walking too much before the vessels and other structures have recovered. To these might be added emotion, the influence of which in causing thrombosis the writer has fre- quently observed. It has been further advanced, that a predisposing cause must exist in a greater coaguUibility of the blood, the result of pregnancy and labour. Humphrey regarded this condition as the essential one. Vein-thrombosis appears to occur spontaneously in certain states of blood- degradation. Certainly, flooding during labour is favourable to thrombosis. The occurrence of the afi"ection in persons suffer- ing from phthisis is especially instructive, because it proves that local conditions—as inflammation, pres- sure or extension of clotting—in the uterine or pelvic veins, arc not necessary to its production. Cases of phlegmasia dolens arising in tubercular subjects are related by Bouillaud (De VOhlitiration des Veines, et de son Influence sur la Formation des Hy- dropisies partielles, Archives de Med.), by Velpeau {Arch, de Mid), by Cursham {Med. Chir. Trans. 1860); by G. M. Humphry, 1859, after dysentery. Phlegmasia dolens in connection with cancer of the uterus has been described by Willan, Gird- wood, R. Lee {Med, Chir. Trans. 1829), and many others. A woman lately died in St. Thomas's Hospital, under the writer's care, with phlegmasia dolens supervening on cancer of the uterus. Virchow, indeed, describes puerperal thromboses as occurring in the venous system primarily or secondarily. The primary, he says, form as con- tinuations from the placental cicatrix, or as thrombi from compression, dilatation, or septic infection; from dilatation, thrombi form in the pampiniform plexus and utero-vaginal plexus, which, being much dis- tended during gestation, unless active contraction in them follow labour, permit the blood to stagnate and clot. Possibly clotting may take place in a similar manner, and concurrently, in the lymphatic vessels. But it seems difficult, from what has been said as to the exciting causes and early or pre- monitory symptoms, to be satisfied that simple clot- ting, from pressure or stagnation, is a common cause of phlegmasia dolens. The rapid supervention of tenderness and enlargement of the lymphatic glands clearly points to the fact that some irritating mat- ter has been admitted. It is the function of the glands to arrest the onward progress of irritating matters into the circulation. In the endeavour to discharge this function, if the offending matter is very virulent, or comes flowing in continuously, the glands become inflamed. Just as occurs when the inguinal glands are infected by chancre or gonor- rhoja, and inflammation sets in, and suppuration in the surrounding cellular tissue; so in labour, when septic matter is taken up by the uterine lymphatics, the associated pelvic glands inflame, and the sur- rounding cellular tissue may suppurate. This is one form (perhaps the most frequent) of puerperal pelvic cellulitis. If only the veins and lymphatics within the broad ligaments are affected with throm- bosis, there will be no swelling of the leg. But if, from greater virulence or more continuous supply of the offending matter, the clotting extends to the external iliac and femoral veins and lymphatics, then will the leg swell, and the typical phlegmasia dolens will be manifested. This thrombosis is a means of segregating or closing the door against the entry of septic matter into the circulation. The writer has designated this " thrombotic puer- peral fever" {Lancet, 18G5). It is eminently a conservative process. The occurrence, then, of pelvic cellulitis or of phlegmasia dolens must be regarded as salutary. It promises and often en- sures safety. It indicates one of two things, or both: either a moderate quantity or virulence of assailing septic matter, or soundness in the blood capable of repelling the assault. On the other hand, if the virus be intense and abundant, the blood poor in quality, and the circulating system athirst from the drain of flooding, absorption will be active; a feeble attempt to arrest the onward course of the veins by clotting may be made, but the imperfect barriers will be broken through, and the septicaemic form of puerperal fever will be de- veloped. This explains both the occasional associa- tion of phlegmasia dolens with puerperal fever, and the etiological alliance of the two diseases. There is this pathological difference between the surviving and fatal cases. In the first, thrombosis does not extend higher than the external iliac vein; in the second, it extends along the common iliac and even into the vena cava, causing such hin- drance to the circulation as in itself to endanger life. In some cases of this class, remote complications arise. The virus penetrates to every part of the system, producing pneumonia, pleurisy, diffuse cel- lular inflammation (resembling erysipelas) in the upper or lower extremities; inflammation of the joints, as the sterno-clavicular, shoulder, elbow, wrist, and knee; the kidneys, spleen, liver, present points of capillary inflammation. Sometimes the eyeball is disorganised. (Marshall Hall, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xiii.) All the conditions asso- ciated with " pysemia " are present. . In connection with this subject, it is desirable not to pass over the kindred affection of arterial thrombosis. This accident is not unfrequent dur- ing pregnancy and childbed. It is more grave than vein-thrombosis. The clotting of blood in the arteries of the leg in senile gangrene has long been known. In this and other conditions, this clotting was ascribed to arteritis. But arteritis, like phlebitis, is put aside. In one class of cases, at a period more or less closely approaching delivery, a woman is seized with fainting, intense pain in one or more limbs, followed by swelling, arrest of pulsation, loss of heat, gangrene in the limb, and generally death. The arteries of the limb affected are found ob- structed by clots. In another class of cases, sud- den faintness, irregular action of the heart, dis- tressed breathing, quickly increasing collapse, and death (sometimes sudden) are observed. Here the pulmonic circulation is almost exclusively con- cerned; clot-obstructions are found in the right heart and pulmonary arteries. The clotting may be primary or secondary. Thrombosis may occur in loco, as in a case reliited by the writer as the effect of violent emotion ; or it may be secondary, forming upon and around an embolus or fragment of clot or vegetation washed into the artery from a distant part, as from the valves of the heart. The Symptoms ajid Course of Phlegmasia Dolens.— Some have been pointed out. The first appearance may be from one to thirty days after labour. The most frequent period is from eight to twelve days—' that is, within the period of liability to blood-infec-