URINARY ABSCESSES, ETC. Ml sometimes exist in considerable number in tliis situation. Fistula associated with the prostate may, however, exist in the absence of any of these causes ; such as tliose which are souietimes con- nected with prostatic abscess, and which are gene- rally exceedingly obstinate and irremediable. Fistula is not necessarily a complete or continu- ous passage from the urethra to some other surface; it may have an opening at one end only, and have a blind or caical extremity for the other. Hence "blind urinary fistula" has been de- scribed. A small tumor, originally formed by a collection of matter, with thickened walls, and having a communication with the urethra, consti- tutes the general form. Its origin has been vari- ously accounted for. Some observers connect it ■with stricture. Others with inflammation of the nmcous follicles of the urethra. Sir B. Brodie takes the latter view. Sir Charles Bell attributed it to inflammation and suppuration of Cowper's gland when situated close to the bulb. A firm small swelling is felt externally, and its contents are sometimes to be evacuated into the urethra by pressure. Ordinarilj', there is more or less con- stant oozing of these from the meatus, giving rise to what is called a gleety discharge. This will not disappear until the tumor is opened externally, when it becomes a fistula of the ordinary kind, requiring treatment already indi- cated. Urethro-rectal fistula sometimes occur as a con- sequence of stricture, and more rarely, perhaps, vesico-rectal. In either case the patient notices the passage of liquid in an unusual manner and quantity by the anus, and that habitually, while a diminished quantity is observed to come by the natural passage. It is not an easy matter to close these openings, unless of very small siz ■, but the actual cautery, and particularly that heated by the galvanic cur- rent, affords the best chance of success. It may be applied through the rectum, a speculum having been first introduced, and a full-sized sound carried into the bladder. Both of these are afterwards removed. On the day before the operation the bowels are to be freely purged and cleared by an enema an hour or two before the application of the cautery, after which they must be prevented from acting for two or three days. The cautery is to be re-applied two or three times at intervals of jibout ten days, if necessary. Sometimes a plastic operation similar to that for vesico-vnginal fistula; may be adopted successfully. 3. Fistulce wil/t Loss of Substance.—This class of urinarj' fistuhe comprehends those cases in which unnatural openings into the urethra exist, not necessarily depending, like those belonging to the preceding classes, upon stricture of the canal, but upon actual destruction of substance from the walls of the urethra and superjacent parts. The com- mon causes of these are, sloughing from extravasa- tion of urine, simple and phagedajnic ulceration, and mechanical injuries of various kinds. 'I'hese openings are for the most part larger, nltliough not invariably so, than any of those already referred to. Generally a portion of the floor of the urethra is destroyed, as well as the structures which liavu intervened l)etwcen it and the external surface, so that in many cases more or less of the nuicoiis membrane of the upper aspect of the canal is visible from the outer orifice. As a consequence, the whole, or nearly the whole, of the urine passes by the artificial channel in a full stream. The cure of these openings can only be accomplished by souie well-planned and well-exe- cuted plastic operation.] Urelh-oplasly.—[Under this term will be com- prehended those operative measures, of a plastic kind, which have for their object the closure of artificial openings into the male urethra, which are not amenable to an>' other method of cure. All these abnormal openings may be regarded, with this view, as occupying two distinct divisions or classes. (a.) Those which exist before the scrotum, or in the penile portion of the urethra, sometimes called ante-scrotal or urethro-penal fistulse; and (Jt.) Those which are found in or behind the scrotum, known simply as scrotal and perineal fistulas. A distinction exists between the ca^es of each division. Ante-scrotal urethral openings are the most difficult to close. The coverings of the urethra are thin, possessing substance insufiicient to furnish an amount of granulations adequate to close any but the most insignificant aperture. For the same reason, it is diflicult to obtain from their innnediate neighbourhood a flap endowed with sufficient vitality to preserve its existence after the process of transplantation. And further, owing to the extreme mobility of the member, it is difficult to maintain that perfect steadiness of position so desirable in a part which is the subject of an auto- plastic operation; while the alteration in size and form which this organ is especially liable to ex- hibit, through the occurrence of erections which are often quite uncontrollable, may impair, or sometimes render almost impossible, the success of the best-planned and most skilfully executed operation. Nevertheless, with all these difiicul- ties, m addition to that formidable one, the con- tact of the urine before referred to, such openings even when large, are not now by any means to be regarded as beyond the reach of surgical skill. Treatment of Ant6-scntal i^/sCH/iB—Dieflen'bach, to \yhom this branch of surgery is so much indebted for its progress, was accustomed to use a peculiar suture to close an ante-scrotal opening which was too large to be obliterated by the application of nitric acid and a concentrated tincture of cantharides to its edges. This, which he called "the lace suture " (schlirnacht), may properly be con- sidered here. The margin of the nmiatural open- iiig, as wi'll as the surrounding akin for a short distance, nnist be frequently touched during the day previous to the operation with the concentrated tincture of caiithari ies. Before proceeding to use the suture, the loose epidermis raised by the blis- tering fluid is to be removed by scraping, a sound introduced into the urethra, and made to pass below the opening. The operator is then directed to take " a small curved needle, sharp at the point but not at its edges, with a stout silk-waxed thread, and by means of a needle-holder to intro- duce it beneath the skin at about three lines fiotn the border of the fistula." The point of the needle IS to be carried deeply, but not into the iirothrn and made to emerge at another point, abtnit tlireo lilies from the margin of the fistulous opening. By three or four of these stitches, the thread is to be carried round the opening, until it liiially einevi-«s