Hunaud exhibited to the Academy of Sciences the skull of II child, between three and four years ot nge, the bones of the upper part of which were in some places seven or i-ight lines in thickness ; and, when compressed, blood and serum oozed out ol the interstices. (See S/iatv, in Med. Chir. Trans. vol. xvii. p. 456.) Many rickety and deformed infants improve as they grow up, and acquire strength. The de- formity of their limbs spontaneously diminishes, and the bones gain a proper degree of firmness, a due quantity of the phosphate of lime being de- posited in their texture. Though the bones may never acquire their right shape, they become exceedingly firm; and some rickety subjects, after attaining the adult age, have been celebrated for the performance of great feats of strength. It is a question, whether the restoration of the proper figure of the bones can be promoted by the constant pressure of bandages, and mechanical contrivances, sold in the shops. Some authors contend that, in very young children, machines are useless, as the confinement and inactivity of the muscles, necessarily occasioned by such con- trivances, must increase the general debility, and consequently the disease. Notwithstanding the praises which have been bestowed on mechanical means by their inventors, and even by respectable authors, says Boyer, they are not now used by any enlightened judicious practitioners, it being generally agreed that it is best to leave to nature alone, aided by good me- dical treatment, the duty of rectifying bones de- formed by the rickets. {Traiti des Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 627.) Delpech expresses himself still more strongly against the employment of machinery. (See Freds Elevientaire des Maladies Chir. t. iii. p. 740, &c.) However, these opinions against me- chanical contrivances for the improvement of rickety bones, are not meant to apply to machinrs for rectifying distortions of the foot. In such cases, the malformation does not depend on con- stitutional causes, and mechanical means will often do whatever is possible. Club-foot we know may frequently be cured by dividing the tendon Achilles. With regard to this part of the subject. Dr. Cumin observes, that as soon as the constitution appears to be rallying, and the bones gaining strength and firmness, attempts should be made to restore them to their natural shape by well di- rected manipulations, and the employment of such mechanical contrivances as will give support with- out injurious confinement. Considerable success is known to have attended the treatment adopted by Dupuytren in deformity of the chest. (Re- pertoire GLn. d'Anal. Sfc. t. v. p. 198.) His plan was to place the child with its back against the knee or a wall, and to make moderate and gradu- ally increasing pressure with the palm of the hand on the sternum, so as to diminish the diameter of the chest from before backwards, and to force out the ribs towards their natural convexity. This practice was repeated frequently every day, until the desired change had been brought about. (See Cyclop, of Praclical Med., art. Rickets.) How- ever, some of these deformities of growing youth would not be looked upon by Mr. A. Shaw as examples of true rickets, and we know that nature herself is often capable of removing them, without the tedious process resorted to by Du- puytren. ' RICKETS. 547 Mechanical supports and contrivances are of doubtlul utility in the treatment of rickets, and much difference of opinion exists as to their em- ployment. Merci, in his valuable work (On Dis- orders of Infantile Development and Rickets, 1855), states that the mechanical compression exercised upon rickety debilitated children by instruments is injuiious rather than the reverse, and should be avoided. Shaw, Jenner, and other eminent authori- ties are of the same opinion. In certain cases, liowever, the careful and judicious application of splints to the extremities will often prevent further • deformity, and, if employed whilst the bones are still soft, will aid the muscles in straightening the crooked limbs ; they may also be used advantage- ously in such a manner as to hinder the child walking or standing, and thus prevent further yielding of the legs. When the spine is involved, rest in the recumbent position, upon a firm bed or couch, is essential, so that the weight of the body shall not exercise undue pressure upon the softened bones, and is far preferable to any spinal apparatus yet contrived, and more especially if fresh air, and above all sea air, can be obtained, without disturb- ing this position. [When the ribs are softened and yield under the pressure of the atmosphere, a bandage around the abdomen will be found useful in preventing the too great descent of the diaphragm, which tends to contract further the thorax, and thus forces the abdominal viscera downwards from beneath the ribs, increasing the protrusion of the abdomen.] No medicine is known that possesses any direct efficacy in rickets. Tonics are indicated, and should be employed. Bark, especially the sulphate of quinine, may be tried, as well as steel medi- cines ; to iron filings, a great deal of efficacy has been ascribed. (See Med. Comment, vol. ii. p. 48.) In particular, the functions of the bowels should be duly regulated by medicine. From the disease appearing to consist in a deficiency of lime in the bones, proposals have been made to exhibit inter- nally the phosphate of lime ; but this chemical project has had no success. (See Bonhommus Me- moir on Rachitis, in Duncan's Annals for 1797.) Several circumstances, considered bv Mr. Wil- son, tend to prove that this scheme could present no chance of benefit, because there is no pmof of a deficiency of lime in the system, though the arteries of the bones do not deposit it in the na- tural degree. (See Wilson, on the Skeleton, &c p. 163, &c.) [Impairment of the digestive organs being the most prominent and constant symptom, requires especial attention ; to this end the bowels must he regulated with mild purgatives, from which mercury in every form is to be rigorously excluded. It has been suggested that the unhealthy condition of the gastric fluids is due to an excess of lactic acid in the secretions of the stomach, and to re- medy this, bisnmth, snda, and other alkalies have been recommended; although this theory is now abandoned, these drugs may be given, beneficially, combined with some warm stomachic and tonic. When the irritability of the stomach is allayed" iron in its most soluble forms is very serviceable and of these no preparation agrees better with ihildren than steel wine. Cod-liver oil has been vaunted ns n specific for rickets by M. Bouchaut and other French writers. It is without doubt a most valuabfc agent, although N N 2