TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE, is occasionally performed. It has sometimes hap- pened that, after a portion of the foot has been amputated by Chopart's method, the remaining part of it is drawn permanently backward by the powerful action of the gastrocnemius and solsus. For the relief of such a case, the proposal has been made to divide the tendon of Achilles. The same proceeding was resorted to, more than twenty years ago, by Thilenius in an example of club-foot, which could not be rectified by other means. This practice, which was afterwards fol- lowed by Delpech, is founded on the fact, tliat, in all cases of rupture of this tendon, an encircling bond of connection is formed, instead of direct union taking place between its extremities; and that such uniting medium then becomes lengthenet and thinned, so that, at this point, the tendon ul timately loses a part of its original diameter. M, Delpech used to introduce a straight bistoury be tween the tendon and the os calcis, completely through the part, dividing the skin at the inner and outer side of the heel and cellular tissue in front of the tendon, to the extent of an inch. Having with- drawn the bistoury, the tendon was next cut through from before backwards, with another knife, that had a very convex edge. The two ends of the tendon were then kept in contact. In about a month the external wounds were nearly healed; and the union of the tendon being sufficiently firm, and the part elongated by a few lines, an apparatus was applied to bring the foot forwards, and gradually lengthen the tendon. Stromeyer's plan, which is more simple, and deserving of preference, is executed with a curved, very sharp-pointed bistoury. This is introduced two or three inches above the insertion of the ten don, between it and the tibia—the back of the knife being turned towards the bone, and the edge to- wards the tendon. The point should only just pass through the skin on the opposite side of the limb. The ends of the tendon are to be brought together by extending the foot ; and the wound generally heals by the first intention. On the tenth day, the further extension of the foot may commence. As M. Malgaigne observes, this plan is preferable to that followed by Delpech, because the tendon remains free under the skin, whereas after the other method the two incisions suppu- rate, and the cicatrix is liable to become united to that of the tendon, and to be hurtfully drawn and irritated when the limb is exercised. (See Mal- yaiijne^ Manuel de Med, oper. p. 152, ed. 2.) It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the division of the tendon of Achilles is only applicable to cer- tain forms of club-foot, in which the action of the great muscles of the calf is decidedly concerned in preventing the part from assuming a better po- sition, and machinery, bandage?, and long-conti- nued manual pressure will not avail. I lately heard of a contracted knee, in which the proposal of dividing the tendon of the biceps was under consideration, as a means of relief. Of course, success would not attend such practice, unless that muscle were particularly the cause of the permanent flexion of the knee. (See Talii'k.s and OiiTiioP/TJDic Surokky.) TENT. A roll of lint for dilating openings, sinuses, &c. TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE. Ac- cording to Sir Astley Cooper, the body of the tes- ticle is less prone to disease than the mammary 695 gland in the other sex; he acknowledges, how- ever, that it is often the seat of disease, and that the spermatic cord, and the coats of the tes- ticle, are also subject to a great variety of affec- tions. TJie reasons assigned by him for the fre- quency of diseases in these parts are the follow- ing:—I. The pendulous situation of the testicles, which renders them very liable to inflammation; for the blood gravitates into them, and returns with difficulty by the veins.—2. The excitement to which they are liable from passion, and which, often not admitting of being immediately gratified, leads to an accumulation of seminal secretion, and to a painful and excessive distension of the semi- niferous tubes, followed by inflammation.—3. The testicles are greatly exposed to blows and pressure. —4. They are frequently involved, secondarily, ia consequence of diseases of the urethra and pros- tate gland,—5. The changes which the organ un- dergoes in old age, and at puberty, sometimes bring on disease of it.—6. The liability of the tes- ticle to be interrupted, or altogether arrested, dur- ing its descent into the scrotum. This process, though usually completed before birth, is often delayed for years, and the testicle may then re- main at the lower part of the abdomen, or in the groin, in which last situation it is much exposed to injury. (See Sir A. Cooper, Qn Urn Strwiure and Diseases ofilie Testis, part ii. p. 5.) The affections to which this organ and its ap- pendages are liable conveniently admit of being referred to four heads :—I. Diseases of the testis ; 2. Of the tunica vaginalis ; 3. Of the cord; and 4. Of the scrotum. The reader will find an account of the three last classes of diseases in the articles HyDROCELE.H^MATOCELE, SCROTUM, and VARI- COCELE, so that these subjects will not receive particular notice in this place. It would perhaps be difficult to cite any depart- ment of surgery in which greater improvement has taken place of late years than in that which re- lates to the diagnosis and more judicious treat- ment adopted with regard to diseases of the tes- ticle. The result is that castration, which at one period used to be very frequently performed in the hospitals of London, is now a compai'atively rare proceeding. The same beneficial reform, through the influence and practice of Duguytien,, at the- Hotel-Dieu, has been also mad;.?, in France', andl of the numerous patients anniii^y admitted intff the French hospitals for such diseases, most are cured without operation. In the maj.ojity of ir, stances, Dupuytren ascertained that tlie enlarge- ment of the testicles proceeded from external vio- lence, syphilis of long standing, or from scrofulous or some other unfavourable state of the general health • and hence, he made it a rule never to resort to castration without having first tried, for a full month or six weeks, some method of treatment adapted to the cause of the complaint. (See Du- puylren, in C/itt. chir. t. i. p. 8G 08.) Acute Jn'lammaiioti of the Testicle; Orchitis (from opxis, a testicle); or Hernia humoralis, aii "bsurd, though formerly a common, name for the omplaint, which being founded, as Sir Astley Cooper justly observes, upon mistaken pathological principles, ought to bo abiindom-d. [Until somewhat recently inflammation of tho body of the testicle and inlhnnmation of the opididymis were confounded together, and described under the common term Orcldlis, but, with au im-