LARYNX, WOUNDS OF. 190 of blood which, in such cases, has been usually sustained, there is generally more need of stimu- lants being administered than any agencies which will depress. Many suicides having been intem- perate in their habits, and suffering from mental depression at the moment when they attempt the act of self-destruction, are very prone to fall into a state of prostration. The pulse must be our chief guide as to the measures called for. If in consequence of external or internal swel- ling or the impaction of viscid mucus, the breathing becomes embarrassed, then we must open up the wound again, or, what is better, open the trachea below, by which means freedom will be given to the respiration, and the original wound will be allowed to heal without any interference. In all cases we must watch any threatening of bronchitis, which is a common consequence, or the advent of delirium of the busy or furious type. If food taken by the mouth escape by the wound, we must pass a large catheter or the elastic tube of a stomach pump into the stomach, making sure, by applying the flame of a candle, that it has not entered the windpipe, and introduce food by this to support the strength. The tube had better be removed after use, unless its introduction is very difficult. It may, if thought desirable, be intro- duced by the nostril. If there be a wound of the gullet, then in the first instance, at least, the tube should be passed through it. Occasionally we cannot feed by the mouth at all, but must have recourse to enemata. The tongue should be fre- quently moistened, to relieve the urgent thirst which so generally torments the patient and he should be instructed how to close the wound in the neck with his fingers if he has difficulty in ejecting his sputa. Tracheotomy, it may be remarked, is occasionally demanded at a later date, if in conse- quence of the projection inwards of the granula- tions at the wound, any serious obstruction to the breathing should ensue. After wounds of the larynx, especially gun-shot wounds, and such as have been accompanied by loss of substance, fistulous openings are apt to remain. In some rare cases the wound in the wind- pipe and gullet has failed to heal at all, and the patient has continued ever after to breathe and be fed by the aperture in his neck. This is, how- ever, rare, as such fistulous openings as follow wounds in the windpipe are usually very small, and are often attended with but little inconvenience. It is in the hyo-thyroid space that, according to Velpeau, such fistulas are most apt to occur, and it is there that the escape of food is most likely to take place. When an aerial fistula exists there will of course be an escape of air by the opening, and partly in con- sequence of the vicarious action thus estabbshed, and also to some extent in consequence of other changes which follow the partial disuse of the larynx, the canal of the larynx gradually diminishes in calibre till it is all but closed. In cases of fistula, the voice is modified or destroyed, and the respiration is carried on in an imperfect manner through the false passage. The constricted con- dition of the glottis just referred to, constitutes one of the greatest difficulties in the treatment of old fistulous openings. Unless steps are first taken in such a case to dilate the canal, it would be dangerous to attempt to close the fistula, seeing that air would not then have access to the lungs. Small, narrow, and oblique fistulaj hardly demand interference, as they cause little harm or inconve- nience, and for reasons already given, old fistulee accompanied with contraction of the larynx, hardly admit of operation. It is in the case of recent fistula, which are a source of annoyance, that the surgeon most justly and hopefully interpobes hiii aid. These openings may be variously closed. 1. In small fistulas, caustic or the hot iron and pressure may succeed in bringing about a cure. These means demand perseverance and care for their successful issue. 2. Prolonging the superior and inferior angles of the opening, rawing the edges simply, or at the same time dissecting them up from the underlying parts, and finally uniting them by sutur-e. The inferior prolongation of the opening made by the surgeon should be left open to allow fluids to drain ofltj and so prevent them interfering with the adhe- sion of the rest of the aperture. 3. By means of a flap raised from the immediate neighbourhood of the opening and twisted so as to cover the aperture, the fistula may likewise be closed. 4. Velpeau dissects a small flap up as in the last case, and rolling it on itself with the raw surface inwards, either in a long or broad shape as the case demands, inserts it like a cork into the opening, and retains it there till it adheres to the edges of the fistula, which have been prepared by rawing for such adhesion. 5. Roux's "occlusion by substitution" is yet another method by which laryngeal fistulae may be closed. The chief aim here is to obviate any risk of emphysema. The external orifice is freely in- cised transversely, and the flaps dissected back. These flaps if healthy are retained, if thin or un- healthy removed. The mucous membrane is next separated from ai'ound the inner edges of the fistula for a short distance and left so. The lips of the external opening are then carefully united; and lastly an artificial opening is made through the tissues close at hand, through which a fragment of gum elastic bougie of a size sufficient to close the internal orifice is introduced, so as to fill that opening in the mucous membrane. In this way all escape of air is prevented, the external aperture of the fistulous canal cicatrises, and as granulations form, they close round the bougie so as finally to close the internal orifice of the canal, then the bougie is withdrawn. . If the case be not adapted for operation, or the patient will not submit to interference, then perfect cleanliness and the use of a respirator over the aperture should be enjoined. For foreign bodies in the larynx, see Trachea.J G.H.D. Maoleod. [BiBLioG. AND Refer. Articles on Larynx.- Albucasis, Chir. p. ii. c. 43, 'a (• I'? Moranoni, De Causis Morb. Epist. xv. ana xxviU. C«S UeVocis et A".dit"s Organo; ter- rara, 1600. Bartholinus, Epist. i. p. 331. Cbirur. t. IV. p. 465--513. ""^ov. MM. vol. i. Vicq. d'Azyr, Hist, de la ^o^^ p^,.j8 A.D., 1776, p.311. I''«'''"«<''"'rVi^, ,. t ii P. 446 KirsUnB, Diss, de Bronchot, 1 -76. f'^'^'^J^"^^- novo Lftryngot. Methodo. Pans, 1779. Horncroy,