[72j. INFLAMMATION, nervous force is, diverted and expended harmlessly. So in cases of general disorder it was formerly con- sidered philosophical to establish a /unkind ov issue, from which the peccant elements miglit be dis- charged. Gil Bias tells us that Dame Jacintha had an issue in her arm to preserve her complexion ; and this mode of treatment was employed in the case of eczema or other eruptions on the head and face, epilepsy, threatened apoplexy, fear of cancer and the like, and in cases in which old ulcers or bleed- ing piles were got rid of. The usual plan was to form a suppurating wound on the outside of the upper arm, by means of a seton, or by destroying a little patch of skin, and hindering the healing process by putting peas into the wound. Issue plaisters were common articles of sale fifty years ago. This plan of treatment was entirely in accordance with " patholog}'," but has fallen into disuse. Prac- titioners now strive to attain the desired objects by sjtering the diet, increasing the excretions, and prescribing air, exercise, and other agents to im- prove the g^ieral health. (See Art. Issues, Setons, &c.) The second order of counter-irritants is based on the fact that irritation of one part will divert the blood-stream from another, and alter the degree or kind of nervous influence. They comprise a vast number of substances of different degrees of force. Some called ruhafacicnls, produce mere redness and smarting of the skin, followed, perhaps, by desqua- mation of the cuticle ; such are mustard (of which the most handy preparation is the mustard leaves of Rigollot), turpentine (seep. [70]), iodine paint, liniments of ammonia of moderate strength, and very hot water, applied by steaming bran poultices. These are used with the greatest possible advantage at the early stage of any internal sthenic inflamma- tion, before the blood has become very hot ; and at iOi^ stage of bronchitis, pleurisy, or abdominal in- flammation of a low type. Some are called vesicants, because they force the cutis to exude serum, v/hich raises the cuticle into a bladder ; thus, in addition to diversion of the blood-stream, they evacuate a portion of serum. The best of these is the Emplasirum Cantharidis, allowed to draw at leisure ; but if the case be very urgent, the acelum cantharidis may be used instead, though it is much more painful. We need hardly repeat the caution that in the case of young infants, and of persons of any age weakened by fever or otherwise, these blistering materials should be used with the great- est caution, and rather as rubefacients than vesi- cants. The second caution is, that vesicants shall not be applied too near the seat of disease if acute, lest they add to, instead of taking from the disease. Thus they should not be applied over the larynx or trachea, or over an acutely-inflamed joint. There is another reason why vesicants should not be applied in these situations, namely, that the skin there'is very thin, and liable to incessant move- ment and extension, which render the blistered Ruriiice extremely irritable and difficult to heal The nitrate of silver in solution (5 j to the ounce) is sometimes applied to the skin to raise a blister, but the process has been described to me by pa- tients as one of great torture. I never heard any person complain so pathetically of the needless suf- ferings inflicted by medical treatment, as a poor fellow witli hopeless laryngeal phthisis, whose throat had been freely blistered by nitrate of silver by an eminent authority on phthisis. Preparations of caustic ammonia require to be used with great caution to the throat, or they may destroy the sur- face of the skin, and produce scars like that of the vaccine vesicle or small-pox, in which a superficial layer is destroyed, and the surface left pale and glistening with the orifices of the sweat-glands exposed. Still more powerful are the counter-irritants called suppuratives, which are generally considered useful for chronic cases, as vesicants are for the acute. Or rather there is a sort of rule according to which that form of counter-irritant should be chosen whose effects must nearly resemble those of the disease which has to be combated. Thus rubefacients like mustard are supposed to be suit- able to caises in an early stage, marked by nervous irritation and hyperajmia ; vesicants, when there is already serous or plastic exudation, and suppu- ratives when a vascular ulcer of the eye or caries of the bone has to be opposed. The mildest form of suppurative is an ointment of savine or cantha- rides applied to an already blistered surface. A much severer one is the actual cautery. To use this a cauterising iron, with a wooden handle aud an olive-shaped knob, at a dull red heat, is rapidly drawn, in lines two inches long and an inch apart over a suitable part of the skin near the disease. The object is to produce a series of narrow, shallow eschars, which shall soon slough off and leave healthy, active, suppurating ulcers. It must be noticed that the suitable place is alwaj-s in a hollow; where there is a depression between projecting muscles or bones—never over a projecting bone. The reason is clear, viz., that over a prominence the skin is never at rest ; it is on the stretch, and the resulting ulcer is difficult to heal and very painful. The actual cautery used lightlj' is not so severe as the potassa fusa or the less deli- quescent poiassa cum calce. These are made into a paste, and applied to the surface, the sur- rounding parts being first well protected with plaster spread on leather, with a hole correspond- ing to the surface in which the potass is desired to act. It is a good general rule that no sore resulting from a counter-irritant should be allowed to cause severe pain, or to interfere with sleep, or to fall into an indolent condition. A brisk suppuration is the thing to aim at. The issue produced by caustic potass may be kept from healing, if need be, by an occasional touch with the potass or by binding peas on its surface. Scions, consisting in skeins of silk, caoutchouc, or drainage lutics, are suppuratives which have fallen greatly into disuse, but seem likelv to be revived in moderation. The nioxa is a Japanese mode of producing an eschar by- burning a kind of tinder on the skin. In fact, of late years, counter-irritation shows a striking exception to the disfavour into which old and painful methods of treatment had fallen. In l!iG4, Dr. Herbert Davies published a work On tJia Treatment of Rheumatic Fever in its acute stage rt- dusivcli/ l>y free blistering. In the important clinical experiment which he records. Dr. Davies refused " the aid of alkalis, nitre, lemon juice, bark, opium, colchicum, or, in fact, any of the internal remedies which are and have been considered as specifics in this affection. The treatment has been absolnlehj and cntircli/ local," and the results highly satisfacturj'. Believing that the lactic acid—