ULCERS. 808 factory grounds, the distinctions being for the most part founded on non-essential characters, and being too refined and minute for practical purposes. From the very numerous circumstances which affect the features of sores, it would be possible to subdivide ulcers indefinitely according to the changes which constitutional, local, or individual peculiarities introduce into their appearance and progress. Some writers have taken the supposed constitutional or local origin of the sore as their chief ground of distinction, some their simple or specific nature, some the violence of the morbid action attending them, some the texture in \yhich they are situated, some such accidental conditions as their irritability, weakness, congestion, &c. It will be at once evident how confusing and un- satisfactory any grouping of ulcers by such inade- quate and often transient and unstable distinctions must be, and it is doubtless to this cause mainly that we are to ascribe the distaste men have shown to the careful study of ulcers, and the indifferent success which so generally attends their manage- ment.] Sir Everard Home, in his treatise, divides ulcers into six principal groups, and as these have been frequently taken as the bases of subsequent classifications, it is well to record them. 1. Ulcers in parts which have sufficient strength ' to carry on the actions necessary for their reco- very. 2. Ulcers in parts which are too weak for that purpose. 3. Ulcers in pazts whose actions are too violent to form healthy granulations, whether this arise from the state of the parts or of the constitution. 4. Ulcers in parts whose actions are too indo- lent, whether this arise from the state of the parts or the constitution. 5. Ulcers in parts which have acquired some specific action, either from a diseased state of the part or of the constitution. 6. Ulcers in parts which are prevented from healing by a vajricose state of the superficial veins of the upper part of the limb. [It is useless to comment on the obvious imper- fection of this classification, which, as Cooper re- marks, "assumes hypotheses the truth of which can never be established nor proved." For practical purposes, ulcers may be grouped under four heads, viz. ;— 1. Healing sores. 2. Ulcers fajiling to heal from excess of action. 3. Ulcers failing to heal from defect of action. 4. Ulcers failing to heal from peculiarity of action. It is true that ulcers may, and frequently do, present during their progress the characters of two, or possibly all, these groups ; but it will be found that their successful treatment will mainly depend on the due recognition of the defect present at the moment, and the knowledge of how best to obviate that source of failure to heal. The healing sore is the type by which we compare other ulcers, and to resemble which it is our object by treatment to bring thera. The difference in features wliich we observe in ulcers, and which enables us thus to Hroup them, depends for the most part on both local and constitutional causes, but either may alone be active, or may at least greatly predomi- nate. Miiny sores are very sensitive exponents (if the patient's state of bodily, and even to soiiie ex- tent mental, condition, while atmospheric, dietetic, and other causes of a passing nature occasionaby exert an obvious influence on them. In judging of the nature of an ulcer, we observe its shape, depth, edges, surface, granulations, dis- charges, sensitiveness, and the state of the sur- rounding parts. The age, constitution, state of health, and habits of the patient also throw no small light on the character and proper treatment of an ulcer; and its position as regards the centre of the circulation, its dependence, &c., together with the state of the digestive organs and the nature of the structures in which it is placed, are all proper objects of consideration. I. Healing ulcers such as arise in healthy persons after the suppuration of a slough caused by violence. A healing, simple, uncomplicated sore has the following 'characters—always premising that it may occur on any part of the body where an injury has been sustained, that its shape, size, &c., will obviously vary with the nature of that injury, and that it presents the most favourable features which a sore can exhibit. Shape : Varies, but generally ultimately assumes a round or oval contour. Depth : Slight. Edges : Healthy tissue, firm and slightly hyper- vascular. The integuments shelve down to the surface of the sore, and are neither everted, in- verted, or undermined. The epidermis is perhaps slightly thickened, and presents a purplish zone near the edge, bounded externally by a delicate bluish-white opaque Ime at the union with the entire skin. Surface: Fresh, blood-xioloured, even and regular. Granulations: Numerous small accuminated, pliant, elastic yet firm, which shed a little red blood when roughly handled. Those granulations which are near the edge are somewhat redder than those at the centre of the sore. Discharge: Laudable healthy pus; not very abundant. Sensitiveness: Healthy ; not painful, and yet quite sensitive ; frequently itchy. Surrounding Parts : Healthy ; possibly some- what more charged with blood than normally. Such are the typical features of healing ulcers. II. Ulcers failing to heal from excess of action. Under this head fall sores designated by various writers as '• inflammatory," " irritable," or " neural- gic,"" " fungous," "exuberant," also one form of " cedematoua," and the " phagedajnic" and " sloughing.'^ These ulcers are generally single, and have fre- quently originally been due to injury. They have not uncommonly been trivial at the outset, hut have assumed importance in consequence of the general state of health of the patient. They arc also apt to continue long present, and so to become in the long run chronic. The following are their leading characters:— Shrqhi: Round or irregular. Depth: Varies, often considerable, but occa- sionally shallow; sometimes deep at one portion and shallow at another. Edges: Swollen, abrupt, and irregular; some- times" thick ; occasionally, on the contrary, thni, and may be everted and rigged.