750 TON 511. S. from pain, from want of food, and inability to sleep, an abscess forms, implicating tiie soft palate, as well as the tonsil, and no relief is experienced till the abscess either gives way spontaneously, or is opened by the surgeon. In some fortunate cases the tonsillitis may terminate in resolution, and is o!'ten supposed to do so when the spontaneous escape of matter has really taken place, but has been overlooked. This latter occurrence is indi- cated by the sudden relief experienced of all the symptoms, accompanied by an unusual and nauseous taste in the mouth. Cynanche tonsillaris is not considered con- tagious, and in this respect differs from cynanche jiarotidea. It is often attributed to cold and damp, and appears to be influenced by atmospheric changes, so that more than one of the same family may be affected about the same time. The attacks are more frequent in spring and autumn, and a person who has once sufl:ered from the disease is ver)' liable to its recurrence. The treatment of tonsillitis consists in adminis- tering internally saline and antiseptic medicines, such as chlorate of potash, or the mineral acids. An emetic of mustard or of ipecacuanha has been found of great service in some cases, given at the commencement of the attack, and the exhibition of guaicum is highly spoken of by Mr. Joseph Bell, of Barrhead, as beneficially influencing the com- plaint in all its stages. (Watson's Lectures on the Practice of Physic, p. 789, vol. i.) Locally the steam of warm water, medicated by anodynes or not, inhaled from an appropriate apparatus, gives relief in the swollen state of the tonsils and soft palate. Gargles containing antiseptic solutions, in which chloride of lime, chlorate of potash, car- bolic acid, or Condy's fluid maj' form the principal ingredient are also useful. The tenacious mucus which collects in the mouth, and is difficult to remove, may be loosened by acid gargles, and other applications which increase the flow of the saliva, also jellies, particularly the black cur- rant, have been used with advantage. Leeches applied to the throat are not generally had recourse to in the present day, but may be found useful in young and plethoric patients before matter has formed. Counter-irritants have also been applied with advantage ; of these the mustard poultice is generally preferred, but blisters, or the linimentum annnoniee have also their advocates. The patient should be kept in an uniform temperature, and his nourishment should consist of broths, jellies, ar- rowroot, light puddings, milk, eggs, and other soft solids. Wine, or wine and water, will be admis- siole, and is often required in cases where the ex- haustion from want of the accustomed amount of food and stimulus becomes extreme. When the matter is fully formed, and fluctuation can be distin- guished by the linger carefully pressed against the painful swelling at the back of the throat, there can be no doubt that a lancet or bistoury should be plunged into it to permit of the escape of the pent-up matter. For although the abscess would in a day or two spontaneously give way, yet many huura of intense suffering and discomfort may be iiniiiediately saved by the evacuation of the abscess. In performing this operation, which must be done through the narrow space left between the teeth, and which is often not sufficient to admit the *"'!?<•>'. great care must be taken to direct the cuttnig instrument backwards and inwards, so as to avoid the possibility of wounding the internal carotid artery, which lies completely to the outride of the swelling. The other risks in opening these almost concealed abscesses arise from the potitiou of the tongue on the one side, and of the check on the other, which are more or less swollen, and in danger of being wounded, especially in withdraw- ing the lancet or bistoury. Most surgeons provide against this difficulty by protecting the cutting edge of the instrument to within half or three-quarters of an inch of its point by means of a strip of ad- hesive plaister wrapped round the blade, and if a common lancet be used, wrapped round its move- able handles as well, which will render them firm and resisting. An instrument has been invented for the express purpose of opening these abscesses at the back of the mouth. It consists of a silver sheath containing a concealed lancet, which may be thrust forward by pressing a spring at the extremity of the handle of the instrument and becomes again concealed on removing the pressure. In using this instrument, which is well suited to secure the safe evacuation of these abscesses, the silver sheath is, in the first instance, placed in contact with the part of the swelling intended to be incised, the lancet is then made instantaneously to project and recede, and thus all other parts of the mouth are free from any danger of being wounded. When an exit has been made for the matter by the surgeon, or when the abscess gives way spon- taneously, a marked and rapid improvement is ex- perienced in all the symptoms, both constitutional and local ; the appetite quickly returns, the fever and debility disappear, and the health and strength of the patient are rapidly restored. Tonic re- medies are usually prescribed and stimulants are freely given in this stage of the complaint; but so rapid is the convalescence that all necessity for treat- ment soon ceases. Tonsillitis in the great majority of cases thus terminates safely either by resolution or after a free suppuration, but in exceptional in- stances some complications are met with. The suppuration occasionally extends beyond the usual bounds, and a large abscess may occupy the wholo side of the neck, requiring openings and counter- openings in dift'erent positions. The editor has now under his care, at St. Mary's Hospital, a man about 40 years of age, who has had a very severe attack of cynanche tonsillaris. Matter freely dis- charges into the mouth from a spontaneous outlet, but an extensive abscess also occupies the side of the neck from the margin of the jaw to within an inch of the clavicle ; in this two incisions have been made, permitting the escape of half a pint of rather foetid pus. One or two faUd cases are men- tioned by Sir Thomas Watson {Op. cit. lect. xliv., p. 78-4), where the lingual artery was implicated in the abscess, and death from hasmorrhage oc- curred. Chronic enlargement or hypertrophy of the tonsils is a complaint wh'ch frequently comes under the cognisance of the surgeon, and occa- sionally requires surgical interference. The ton- sils in this affection present an irregular surface, with numerous deep excavations separated from each other by prominent ridges, produced hy the enlargement of the follicles and crypts of the gland, and of their surrounding fibro-cellular boundaries, belonging to the natural structure of the tonsil. The ducts of the gland are often pressed upon and concealed, and their contents