"^"^^ TREPHINE, The danger of fractures of the skull does not depend upon the simple solution of continuity : ■but is in relation to the degree of concussion and compression of the brain, witii which the injury of the bone may be complicated. The pressure, caused by depressed splinters of bone, 33 less alarming, inasmuch as the cause of the compression is easy of removal. The pressure ot e.Ktravasated fluid is far more serious, in con- sequence of the difficulty of ascertaining posi- tively its existence and precise situation. Its scat is sometimes between the skull and the dura mater, which is detached from the bone. More frequently, it occurs either between the dura mater and tunica arachnoides ; in the sub- stance of the brain ; or else in the ventricles. The quantity of extravasated fluid is generally less in those extravasations which are situated between the dura mater and the skull, unless they lie in the course of the middle meningeal artery, where they are frequently copious. Extrava- sations, formed in the substance of the brain itself, are not only more considerable, but also, as they mostly depend upon concussion, are more alarm- ing, than effusions on the surface of the dura mater. It is indeed extremely difficult, if not im- possible, to ascertain the situation of the extrava- sated fluid. In such cases, the trepan is likewise of no use ; while concussion, when so violent as to produce external extravasation, is perhaps in variablj' fatal. In extravasations between the dina mater and the skull, which are almost the only cases of the kind to which surgery can administer relief; when the effused iliiid lies under a part of the skull, accessible to the trephine, the extrava- sated fluid is generally, except in the instance just now specified, small in quantity. The danger, however, is not the less : ten or twelve drops of fluid are sometimes enough to produce a fatal compression. When the extravasation has hap- pened in the substance of the brain, the com- pression is far more perilous : in short, it may be said to prove, with very few exceptions, certainly mortal. The lethargy, the degrees of which increase from mere drowsiness into the most perfect coma ; and the paralysis of the opposite side of the body to the seat of the extravasation ; are the most common symptoms of this accident. Hav- ing explained elsewhere (see PIead, Injuries op) some other symptoms, such as stertorous respira- tion, dilated pupils, &c., which usually indicate pressure on the brain, it is unnecessary here to dwell upon them. The subsequent increase of the coma, and paralytic affections, and the gra- dual augmentation of their intensity, serve to render these symptoms distinguishable from others, which are suddenly brought on by con- cussion. But there are instances, as every man of experience knows, where concussion rup- tures the blood-vessels and produces an extra- vasation of blood. In this circumstance, it is obvious that the symptoms of compression are blended with those of concussion. The sym- ptoms^ proceeding from the latter cause always diminish in proportion to the time which has elapsed from the moment of the injury ; while those of compression succeed, and on the con- trary increase in intensity, in proportion as the quantity of extravasated fluid becomes more con- "uerable. Kotwithstanding these distinctions. however, it must be acknowledged, that there are many cases in which the surgeon is obliged to remain in doubt with regard to the particular cause of the symptoms. This indecision is the more embarrassmg, because the operation of tre- plunnig is necessary in cases of extravasation, but useless ni those of concussion. Even when ex- travasiition is known to exist, the practitioner re- qun-es more information ; for he ought to know the precise situation of the effused fluid. It is true, indeed, that paralysis of one side of the body generally indicates the pressure to be upon the opposite hemisphere of the brain. But, what surgeon woiild venture to follow the practice ad- vised by Van Swieten and applv to the suspected side of the head three crowns of the trepan^ Possibly, not one of them might fall on the situa- tion of the extravasated fluid. When the skull IS broken, the extravasation is almost always on the same side of the fracture. When it is the effect of concussion, or when the breach of con- tinuity in the skull is what is termed a counter- fissure, the effusion is generally on the side of the head most remote from the blow. If the pressure is caused by a detachment of the internal table of the skull, the nature of the case cannot be ascertained before the operation of trephining lias been performed on the part of the skull upon which the violence has acted. When there are two extravasations, one depending upon a frac- ture, and situated immediately under it between the dura mater and the skull ; the other arising from concussion, and situated at some point df- rectly opposite, either between the dura mater and tunica arachnoides or within the substance of the brain itself ; paralysis may occur on the same side as the fracture ; and hence, it may be inferred, that the palsy does not always take place on the side opposite to the extravasation. But, savs Richerand, an examination of the body quickly proves, that the case does not deviate from the common rule. The extravasation, produced by concussion, being almost invariably more consider- able than that caused by a fracture, accounts for the extension of the palsy to the same side of the bod}'. Sometimes, the side which is not pa- ralytic is affected with convulsions; the pulse is full and hard ; and the respiration stertorous ; in short, the symptoms are analogous to those caused bj' apoplex}^. The following observations and advice fully accord with the doctrines, which I have always inculcated in my writings upon this part of sur- geiy, and they also agree witli the practice, which was so snccessfully adopted by me in the case of the soldier of the 44tli regiment, wounded at the battle of Waterloo, as already nientionod : it is therefore with much pleasure that I quote the authority of Sir Benjamin Brodie on a point, about which practitioners have been so much perplexed :— "Blood (says he) is seldom poured out in any considerable quantity between the dura mater and the bone ; except in consequence of a laceration of the middle meningeal artery, or one of its prin- cipal branches ; and it is very rare for this accident to occur, except as a consequence of fracture. If, therefore, we liiid the patient lying in a state of stupor, and, on examining the head, we discover a fracture with or without depression, extending ni the direction of the middle meningeal artery, alihouijh the existence of an extravasation on the