802 wards through the linea alba, so as just to admit tliu tip of the finger to reach the distended bladder. Meantime, an assistant, standing behind the pa- tient, should press one of his hands firmly on eitlier •side, against the abdominal walls in such a position as to steady the bladder. A straight, or a slightly- curved trocar (if the latter, the convexity of tlie curve should be upwards), is then to be carried with a very little inclination downwards into the bladder. It is better not to empty the viscus im- mediately, when very large, but to draw off its contents by degrees; as alarming syncope, and even death, have occurred on sudden removal of the pressure from the abdominal circulation. After the operation, the caunla should be exchanged for a tube of gum or silver, adapted to slide through it, secured by tapes and a T-bandage, which may remain a considerable length of time, but must be removed and washed occasionally. 3rd. Lastly, Ihe Puncture through the Symphysis Pubis.—This operation wag first proposed by Dr. J. M. Brander, of Jersey, in Paris, in 1825, where he read a paper advocating the procedure on the presumed advantages of the situation, regarded anatomically; and he and others have several times performed it with success. Dr. Brander has em- ployed a hydrocele trocar of medium size, although he alludes to one of flattened form. The first- jiamed instrument oflfers an advantage by admitting of rotary movement in introduction. The patient should recline, and the trocar should be introduced —whether after a small preliminary division of the integuments or without it, appears to be imma- terial—about the centre of the symphysis, reckon- ing from above downwards, and in ja. direction at about right angles to the vertical axis of the body. Dr. Brander says, "somewhat obliquely down- wards and backwards towards the sacrum, varying the direction according to circumstances; a piece of flexible catheter is then to be introduced through the canula," and retained by a tape. In considering these methods of affording relief to the distended bladder in reference to a case of distension from stricture, the question to be first solved is the following :— Are the patient's powers and condition such as to compel us to prefer the simplest method of affording immediate relief, without regard to ulterior results ? It ought not often to happen that we are called upon to answer this question in the affirmative, if the early treatment have been under our own direction, for it would indicate that other appliances have been too long employed. But then this is not always the case. The sur- geon's decision is often required when no time can be lost, and when the patient's powers are at alow ebb. In such circumstancee, unless the urethra can be felt in the perineum distended with urine, which may sometimes be the case, the rectal puncture of the bladder, supposing the prostate not to interfere (putting aside the puncture by tlie symphysis as not yet sufficiently tested by experi- ence), is a simple method, and will afford instan- taneous relief at the smallest possible expense to the patient's powers. But if the distension spoken of is perceived, a lancet, or sharp-pointed bistoury, may be carried into it, and a female catheter in- troduced by its side before it is withdrawn : it is ■very rare indeed, however, that this condition exists. Still, if the bladder is felt distended above the pubes, no doubt this is the best situation in URINE, RETENTION OF. which to retain an instrument afterwards. The supra-pubic operation in this condition is easily per- formed and without danger. It is olhetwiae if the bladder is contracted, and at the same time hypertrophied ; that is, when no trace of a dig- tended viscus can be found above the supra-pubic symphysis. In all cases, however, the question of puncture depends much on the skill and expe- rience of the surgeon; and very rarely indeed ought the operation to be necessary for retention of urine. 2. Retention in cases of Inflammation of Proglaie following Goiiorrhcm.—In this form of the reten- tion the immediate resort to the catheter is less needful, and, indeed, less desirable than in the preceding. The urethra is excessively tender, oftea inflamed, discharging pus, and injury may be very readily inflicted on it. The subjects are young, and often vigorous, while the iuflammatorj' condi- tion which obstructs the urethra, unlike to the more mechanical narrowing which constitutes stric- ture, is often readily overcome by the powerful influence of a hot bath, which, at a temperature of 100° to 104°, fills the capillaries of the entire sur- face, and relieves the internal congestion, and enables the urine to pass in sufficient quantity. Should this, however, fail, the catheter may be resorted to; and the best instrument for the pur- pose is usually a well-curveil gum-catheter, No. 6 or 7, without a stilet, which will usually slide into the bladder, if no force is used, more readily than any other. In some few instances a silver instru- ment may succeed; it shoidd be one of medium size, which is much better than either large or small; the latter being the most objectionable of all instruments in these circumstances. For the general or medical treatment see Treatment op Acute Prostatis under that head. 3. Retention caused by Hypertrophied Prostate in elderly Subjects.—A common result of this disease is a chronic and gradually increasing obstruction of the neck of the bladder, so that the course of the urine outwards is always more or less obstructed. This condition existing, it often happens that expo- sure to cold, an unaccustomed indulgenceat the table, or in sexual excitement, or some other less obvious cause of congestion in the gland, occasions complete retention, and surgical aid is instantly required. As in the preceding class of cases, the hot bath is often of essential service; if much straining of » painful and involuntary character is present, opium is of great value; under the influence of these agents the water usually dribbles off in quantity sufficient to relieve the bladder, although by no means to empty it. If this relief is not ample the catheter is to be employed; a course which in any case must be adopted without much delay, since the bladder cannot be permitted to remain dis- tended, even although the normal quantity of urine flows off day by day. I have found no kind of instrument so efficient for cases in these circum- stances as a gum catheter of full size, say No. 9 or 10, provided that it has been treated in the following manner. At the same time a gum catheter not 8» treated is, 1 believe, one of the most inefficient instruments which can be employed, and a siwr one is then preferable. To render it valuable tor a case of hypertrophied prostate it should be kefi for three or four months at least on a stout stilet, curved to an extreme degree, so that the lower half of the catheter describes about three-iourtlis oi