212 LITHOTOMY a little further enquiry on liia part into tlie subject, that Morand, whom Cheaelden instructed in his operation, and who was therefore the person of all others the best entitled to be acquainted with it, says nothing of the change mentioned by Douglas: "Morandus nihil adhuc de hac methodo proponit sed prascedentem No. 19 deacriptam (alluding to the mode in which he was instructed by Cheselden) pro optimi declarat." (Heister's Institutiones Chi- rurgicw, p. 977.) Sabatier, also, in his Medecine Operatoire, t. 4, p. 251, published in 1796, has given a correct ex- pose of Cheselden's practice, in which he has been since followed by Baron Boyer, in nearly the same words.) Traite, des Maladies Cliir., t. 9, p. 356.) For several other interesting facts I must refer to Dr. Yelloly's valuable paper. Lateral operation as peiformed with cutting gorffeis.~[The operation with the cutting gorget "is almost entirely discarded in the present day; the discussion of its merits, therefore, is daily becoming more a matter of historical than of prac- tical interest. The following remarks, however, though relating more especially to the operation with the gorget, include many points of great interest and importance with reference to lithotomy generally.] The gorget has the same kind of form as one of the instruments used by F. Colot and others in the performance of the apparatus major, and the common opinion that the conductor of Hildanus was the first model of it is not exactly true ; but it diffurs from the instruments employed by these ancient surgeons in having a cutting edge. Sir Cffisar Hawkins thought that if its right side were sharpened into a cutting edge, it might be safely ■ pushed into the bladder, guided by the staff, so as to make the true lateral incision in the left side of the prostate gland more easily, and with less risk of injuring the adjacent parts than Cheselden could do with the knife ; and surgeons were pleased with a contrivance which saved them from the responsibility of dissecting parts with the ana- tomy of which all were not equally well acquainted. (./. Bell; Allan.) . As Scarpa observes : To render the execution ot the lateral operation easier to surgeons of less ex- perience than Cheselden, was the motive which induced Hawkins to propose his gorget. He thought that two great advantages would be gained by the use of this instrument: one, of executing invaria- bly the lateral incision of Cheselden ; the other, of constantly guarding the patient, through the whole course of the operation, from injury ot the rectum and of the arteria pudica profunda. 1 le utility of the latter object (says Scarpa) cannot be disputed, as it is evident that the convexity of the director of the instrument defends the rectum from injury, and that its cutting edge, not being mchned hori/ontallv, towards the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, but turned upwards in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the neck of the urethra cannot wound the pudic artery. But with respect to the first advantage, or that of cxecutnig pre- cisely the lateral incision of Cheselden . nnist be admitted that it does not completely luliil the in- tention which he proposed, not only on account of the cutting eJge of his instrument not being raised enough above the level of the staff to penetrate sufficiently the substance of the prostate gland. and consequently to divide it to a proper depth; but, because being too much turned upwards at that part of it which is to lay open the base of the prostate gland, it does not divide it laterall}-, but rather at its upper part, towards the summit of the ramus of the ischium and the arch of the pubis ; an opening, of all others in the perineum, the most confined, and presenting the greatest impedi- ment to the passage of the stone from the bladder. (See also A'ey on Lilhoiomy, p. 10.) Scarpa considers all the modifications of Haw- kins's gorget proposed by B. Bell, Desault, Cline, and Cruikshank, as deteriorations of the original instrument. B. Bell (he observes) has diminished the breadth of the director, but giving the cutting edge a horizontal direction. The horizontal direc- tion of the cutting edge is also preferred by Desaiilt, Cline, and Cruikshank ; but they have enlarged the director'and flattened the part which was pre- viously concave. Aware of the danger of wound- ing the pudic artery by the horizontal direction of the gorget, they direct the handle of the staff to be inclined towards the patient's right groin, and the gorget to be pushed along it, inclined in such a manner that its obtuse edge may be directed towards the rectum, and its cutting edge placed at a sufficient distance from the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, to avoid wounding the artery. Scarpa contends, however, that it is difficult to give a proper degree of obliquity to the staff; and that such inclination of the instrument must be incom- modious, arbitrary, and unsettled, in comparison with that position of it in which the handle of the staff is held in a line perpendicular to the body of the patient, and its concavity placed against the arch of the pubis ; on which stability of the in- strument (says Scarpa) the safety and precision of the lateral operation depend. According ^to this eminent professor, the defects of Hawkins's origi- nal gorget arise from the excessive breadth of the director, particularly at the point, the want of suf- ficient clevati.in of the cutting edge above the level of the groove of the staff', and the uncertain inclination of the edge to the axis of the urethra and prostate gland. The cervix of the urethra in a man between 30 and 40 years of age is only three lines in diameter at the apex of the prostate ffland, four lines in its centre, and five near the orifice of the bladder. The apex of the prostate gland is rather more than two lines in thickness, the body or centre four, and the base six and sometimes eight, which surrounds the orifice of the bladder. In an adult of middle st;Uuie, from 1« to 20 years of age, the thickness of the base ot the prostate gland is about t«-o lines less compared with that ot a man of 40 and of a large size The pre- cise line in which the lateral incision of the prostate gland should be made in an adult (savs Scarpa is found to be inclined to the longitudinal axis ol tlie cervix of the urethra, and of the gland itself, at an angle of 69-^. Now, from those data, drawn from ihe structure of the parts, Scarpa makes tlie di^ rector of his gorget only four lines broad and two deep; the breadth decreasing at the bcaK. The cutting edge of the instrument is stra.feli near its point, but gradually rises and becom convex above the level of the statt, so that ts greatest convexity is seven lines broad La ^ the inclination of the cutting edge to the long.t i dinal axis of the director is exacUy at an ang e 69' 1 axis ot tne aireciui ... ., , that is to say, the same as the left side of the