8G6 UTERUS, CANCER OF cut surface of the uterus quickly resumes its na- tural position on the removal of the hooks, no dressiiin; being commonly applied to the part; and the patient being put to bed, is placed on a strict regiinen for several days, venesection and leeching being freely employed, not only to remove, but even to prevent, attacks of inflammation. (M. Lisfranc usually bleeds his patients at La Pitie to 3K. or 5xij. soon after the operation, the effect ot the excision being considered by him, particularly where there has been preceding raenorrhagia, as analoo-ous to a suppression of the menses; repeat- in^ the bleeding, leeching the sacral region, and using emollient fomentations and enemas on the least occurrence of abdominal tenderness. Such treatment is generally very successful, although it is not uncommon to bleed three or four tunes from the arm, besides applying leeches.) After the simple introduction of the speculum, in certain cases where an inflammatory diathesis exists (more particularly in young persons, where the cervix, in addition to other disease, ap- pears gorged witli blood), care is to be taken to throw emollient lotions, or those containing the chlorides of lime, or soda, into the vagina several times daily, by means of a syringe; and the wound, if tedious, may require to be touched with the nitrate of silver. Women, so treated; are usually able to go home in three or four weeks. It is not desirable that the patient should go to stool soon after the operation, as the effort might detach the coagulum from the wound. One woman is alleged to have become pregnant fifteen days after the operation, went the usual time, and was delivered in three quarters of an hour, as there was no cervix . uteri to resist the passage of the infant. Even with regard to the excision of the cervix uteri, it is perfectly manifest to me that many of the cases in which it was performed were not trii y cancerous. Doubts may be entertained, I think, whether the enormous tumor removed in the very first instance of such operation by Osiander, was really a cancerous affection. Several of the cases operated upon in Paris were decidedly not of this character. On this point I fully agree^ with Dr Brown, an eve-witness, who remarks: VV nile 1 admit the facility with which such a measure may be accomplished, I must be permitted to doubt its necessity in some of the cases related. 1 he second and third were, in my opinion, such affections as would have yielded to common local and constitu- tional measures, and would, I have no doubt, have been so treated by British surgeons, and perhaps by a few of our French brethren.' Instead of the excision of the cervix uteri for cancerous diseases, M. Bayle advocated the appli- cation of caustic; and his advice was founded upon the fact shown by pathological anatomy, that, in the early stage of malignant ulceration ot this part the texture of the uterus is healthy at the distance of two or three lines from the ulcerated surface. The patient having been placed in the right posi- tion, and the speculum introduced, the cancer is to be cleansed with dossils of charpie. If the sur- face is irregular, or the seat of fungous granufa- tions, they are to be removed with curved scissors, or a sharp edged kind of scoop (Duptiytren). In this manner, indeed, such growths may be removed n..t only from the cervix, but from the interior ot the uterus. After the ulcer has been cleaned, a roll of charpie is placed below the speculum, m order to protect the vagina from the action of the caustic. Then the caustic is applied, either the arsenical paste (Bayle), or the pure potash, scraped to a point, and fixed in a porte-crayoii; or the acid nitrate of mercury, with which lint is wetted and conveyed with forceps to the ulcer. The applica- tion is continued for one minute; then copious injections of tepid water are employed for the removal of the uncombined particles of caustic; the charpie and speculum are withdrawn; and the patient put into a warm bath. In about four or six days, the application is to be repeated; and, if no ill consequences follow, it is to be continued at short intervals, but more and more lightly each time, in proportion as the cure advances. (^Lis- franc; also Malcjaiytie, Man. de Mud. p. 745, ed. 1.) [It has not been thought desirable to alter the author's description of uterine cancer beyond slightly condensing it. The history down to Mr. Cooper's time, and the appreciation of the practice of am[jutating the cervix for malignant diseiise, must serve as the basis of all discussions of the subject. The subsequent sketch is not iiitended as a correction of Cooper's account, for in that respect he is seldom open to assault, but as an ex- position of the subject, such as the actual state of knowledge requires. All the known forms of cancer may affect the uterus; and all by preference seem to affect the cervix, beginning at the vaginal portion or os ex- ternum, and mostly terminating at the os uteri internum. 1st. Fungoid or medullary carcinoma is by far the most common; 2nd, in frequency, come the epithelial kinds; and 3rd, the scirrhous or hard cancer. This last, West and Rokitansky say, is extremely rare. I. The Medullar 1/Cancer, ov EncepJialoid.—It is found as a thick, bony, hard, nodular mass, of white, grey, or red colour, consisting of a fibrous framework, with a brain-like pulp in the inter- stices. As a rule, cancer is characterised by an infiltration of cells of a monstrous type, and great activity of multiplication, into the natural areolar tissue. Wherever areolar tissue is found, there cancer is prone to form. In uterine encephiUoid, these cells commence in the cellular tissue between the mucous membrane and the proper tissue of the uterus. Lebert thinks cancer may begin lu the follicles of the neck of the uterus. The disease gradually encroaches upon the deeper strata; but commonlv there remains after death a thin layer of muscular substance beneath the peritonea investment of the uterus. The extension is not so much inwards into the uterine tissue, as centn- fujial. At first this, like the other forms of cancer of the uterus, appears to be strictly locn , confined to the cervix. But after a tune, d.flicult to deter mine, the disease invades the areolar tissue o he fundus of the vagina, the base ot tl-e b adder the rectum, the broad ligaments, uniting all tl>ese par s into one mass. As the cell-growth proceeds, the normal elements of the parts ^"vaded d.s.^^^^^^^ The diseased mass increases in f <=-f a considerable bulk, so that Jl'^S^'-'^f/^^.i. introduced through the vulva, will "'.^'^''.t ^^- what advanced at once ^t-''^^ "f"j %„- formed os uteri is brought low do«"; lapsus. It is often hardly recognisable from- the