54 " INFLAMMATION. " Abscess is a transition of bodies from inflam- mation into pus." Galen treats of inflammation under tlie head of abnormal tumonrs or swellings: which he says, must be divided into inflammation {(pAeyixou^), erj'si- pelas, scirrhus, and oedema. He refers in many places to the opinions of former physicians, and the meanings which they attached to these terms: quotinf? particularly Hippocrates and Erasistratiis. The former of the.se used the word oldoi or oiSriixa to signify a swellina: round a wound or ulcer- but if heat and throbbing were present, he called it an inflammation. Tiiose who preceded him, however, differed in their use of the words, calling every kind of burning {(pAoyaiffts) an inflammation. {Ad Glauconem, op. cit. vol. xi. p. 69.) From the time of Erasistratus (pAeyfJ-ovij was used to signify those tumours which had not merely a burning heat, but resistance and pulsa- tion as well. The theory held by Erasistratus was that feverand inflammation were two possible effects of the same cause. " When some violent ao-ency makes the blood contained in the veins pass over into the extremities of the arteries, the blood so effused meets the current of air coming from the heart, and, if strong enough, disturbs the action of the heart by forcing back the current, and so produces fever; if, however, the air is able to force the blood back to the e-'ctremities of the arteries, it becomes impacted there, and produces an inflammation." The passage of blood Irom the veins into the arteries (which, because empty after death, were supposed to contain merely air or " spirit " during life), was supposed to be caused bv local flux or plethora in idiopathic inflamma- tions, and in wounds, by the imbibition of blood ty the arteries, after their canals had been laid open and the " spirits " allowed to escape. Galen in one of his manif.dd definitions and classifications of diseases, divides " tumours ' or swellings into those which arise (1), fro™ in- crease of the elements natural to a part, and {^), from the intrusion of matters not belonging to it. These latter constitute the tumores prater naturam, and may be created by afflux of blood, bile, phlegm, black bile {melancholia), or air. That inflammation is caused by infraction of blood, may be proved by incision of an inflamed part, when the blood with which it is stuffed like a sponge, flows out abundantly. {De Tamoribus, Op. Ji-<i. Knhn, vol. vii. p. 707.) Bile causes erysipehis, phlegm (i.e. serum) causes redema, and black bile causes scirrhus. (In the ancient sense sarrJms signified a chronic inflammatory induration.) {De Morhorum Dffereniiis, op. cit. vol. vi. p. An afilux, or effusion of blood being stated by Galen, over and over again, in diff-erent forms of words, to be the cause of inflammation, he goes on to argue that corruption and disintegration of the part affected is the natura consequence Food, badly digested and assimilated, and not changed into good blood, becomes corrupted ; cor- rupted matters are hot ; blood charged with these corrupted matters creates heat and unnatural swelling in the parts in which .t.pntrefies and this is inflammation. {Comment, in hh. Ihpvoc. de Humoribus, Ed. Ktilm, vol. xvl. p. idl-) _ Heat, moisture, and stagnation are the tilings most favourable to putrefaction: and when blood has become impacted in a part in such quantity as to exceed the natural powers of removal, these are the very conditions to which it is subject. Of necessity, therefore, its decay follows; and the pus formed is the result of the solution of the tissues. The connection between inflammation and fever is described by Galen as follows:—" The inflamed parts excite fever by the putrefactive process. For the substances effused into them, becoming impacted in them, and being by nature warm, putrefy by reason of the non- diifiision of air through them. When, therefore, the effused fluid is undoubtedly active bile, the part Ruff^ers from an erysipelatous burning : but when blood is effused, from an inflammation. When, however, the two are mixed, it is called an inflammatory {(pAeyfioviiSes) erysipelas, or an erysipelatous inflammation, according as one or the other predominates. But fever follows upon all these by reason of its identity of nature. For the neighbouring parts become inflamed in succession, until the influence reaches the heart." Just as a house may be burned down through too great a fire in the hearth. {De Vtnmsect. ad Erasis. op. cit. xi. 189.) In another place, '^Nature," we are told," when she perceives anything noxious in the system,— under which all causes of pain are necessarily in- cluded,—strives to get rid of it by means of her ex- cretive power, and thereby sometimes causes an in- flammation: if her eff'ortsat first fail, by increasing tnem greatly, she forces out blood and air into the tissues, and produces a swelling, the nature of which is difi'erent, according to the substances which find their way into it. Difterent tissues have different powers of resisting these effu- sions ; that of glands being the weakest." In the treatment recommended by Galen, blood-letting held a very high place, because consonant with both reason and experience. Nothing, he says, can be more reasonable than that a disease whos"e essence is afflux of blood, should be treated by evacuating that blood, on the estab- lished Hippocratic principle that diseases are to be treated by their opposites. {Ad Glancoiiem, op. cit. xi. p. 16.) TCivavria rS>v ivavTitev IdfxaTa (ib p 167.) Nature, in her spontaneous ha;mor- rhage's, sets the example, and the common instinct of humanitv, and almost of brutes, bears witness to its reasonableness. The followers of Erasistratus objected entirely to blood-letting ; yet they did not hesitate to use starvation, vomiting, and purgatives. Is it not better to take blood directly from a vein than to use those painful and roundabout modes of evacuation ? As to experience. In his work ad- dressed to the Roman followers of Erasistratus, he details how, when he first came to Rome, he saw patient after patient die, sufliocated with pneu- monia and angina, because the physicians refused to bleed • and by way of contrast triumphantly records {De Vcncesedione, ib. xi. 299), how he was called to see the steward of a rich man in the suburbs of Rome, who had been suffering under ophthalmia fbr twenty days and had been treated without benefit by the family physician, who w-as of the Erasistratean sect. " I found the patient, savs Galen, " a plethoric young man with intense inflammation, swelling, pain, and discharge Knowing what the treatment had been, I said that it was impossible I could take charge of such a patient in the suburbs, aud that 1 ought to see him very frequently for at least three days. Let