•251. and pushed inwards towards the median line by tlie left forefinger introduced into the wound. With the same finger the staff should be felt for deeply in the wound, and the knife should be made to penetrate the groove at a point correspond- ing, as nearly as can be judged, to the vesical ter- mination of the urethra. It should then be passed onwards into the bladder, its cutting edge being turned obliquely downwards and outwards towards the left side, just as in lateral lithotomy in the male. The incision may be enlarged, aliould it be thouglit necessary, as the knife is withdrawn, by a further division of the tissues in the same oblique direction. The ordinary lithotomy forceps can then be introduced through the wound for tlie ex- traction of the stone. Dr. Andrew Buchanan operated in this way in six cases with very satisfactory results, both as regards the healing of the wound, and the subse- quent ability to retain the urine. He used, we believe, the rectangular staff introduced by hira for lithotomy in the male. Another case operated on by Dr. George Buchanan is recorded in the Medi- cal Times and G'azetle o{ May 3rd, 1862. The patient was a child aged six years. The stone was readily extracted, and the wound healed favourably. The child, who had had incontinence of urine since she had been suffering from stone, began to recover power over her bladder as soon as the wound healed. A case operated on in the same way by Dr. IMorton is recorded in the Glas- gow Medical Journal for January 1855. The patient was a woman aged forty-seven. The wound healed well, and she retained perfect power over her urine. This plan of operation is not so well understood as it deserves, and it is well worthy of further consideration by the profession. It is not likely to cause any permanent injury to the retentive power of_ the bladder, as no part of the bladder or urethra is laid open into the vagina ; while the track of the wound, passing as in the male through n considerable depth of tissue, is pretty certain to heal by granulation. Experiment on the dead liody will satisfy anyone disposed to adopt it of the facility with which it may be accomplished. It Rueras especially well adapted for children. The risk attending it is probably considerably less than in lateral lithotomy in the male, and it has already been shown that in children this is not very alarming. Vesico-vaginal Lithotomy.—In cases of very large calculi the vesico-vaginal method, first practised by Itousset and Ilildanus, and already alluded toby the author, may be employed with advantage. It consists of an incision from the vagina in the median line into the neck and base of the bladder, the urethra not being interfered with. It may be performed in the following manner. The patient is placed in the usual lithotomy position, and a wooden gorget, or, still better, the" speculum used by Sims and Bozeman in operations for vesico-vaginal listula, is introduced into the vagina, so as to expose its anterior wall. A straight staff is then passed into the bladder with the groove directed down- wards, and made to press against the vagina. The staff being held by an assistant, the operator passes ;i sharp-pointed knife through the vesico-vnTinal septum into the groove of the staff opposite the neck "f the bladder—that is to say, an inch or rather LITHOTOMY. more behind the meatus urinarius—from whicli point be carries his incision backwards through the septum for an inch or more, according to the size of the stone to be extracted. This incision of the vagina in the median line affords great facilities for the extraction of a large stone ; it is not likely to be attended with serious bleeding, for the vessels are small in the median line; and is not likely to be followed by urinary infiltration, in consequencp nf the density of the tissues composing the vesico- vaginal septum. Velpeau, who inquired carefully into the history of this operation, was struck with its great immunity from danger, and with the slight degree of constitutional disturbance which it en- tails; in fact, he did not meet with the record of a single fatal case. It has, however, never taken its place as an approved and recognised operation, in consequence of the difficulty of securing the closure of the wound, and its being consequently so often followed by the distressing condition of a vesico- vaginal fistula. Notwithstanding this, it has been practised occasionally, from a very early date, in e.x:- ceptional cases, and for the removal of large stones. The cases of Fabricius Hildanus, Housset, and Me'ry have been already mentioned. In 1740, Gooch extracted a calculus through the vagina weighing three ounces, which had caused ulceration through the septum. M. Velpeau gives the names of various operators who have since adopted the vesico-vaginal method of lithotomy; and amongst them, M. Faure, who made his incision in the median line, but very obliquely through the septum; that is to say, directing the edfe of his knife towards either the right or left side" so as to produce a broader cut surface, and to give the wound a somewhat valvular arrangement. He thus, in 1808, succeeded in curing a patient without the formation of a fistula. (See Velpeau, Ekm. of Op. Surg. Moil's translation, vol. iii. p. 967; also Bourgery, Med. Oper. t. ii. p. 289.) Most of the earlier operators speak only of the removal of the stone, and say nothing about the result as regards the formation of a fistula. Chelius however, more recently, says that the production of a yesico-vaginal fistula, which has been objected to this operation, cannot be considered as the usual consequence. He advocates it as causing no bleed- ing and no incontinence of urine, while it affords facilities for the removal of very large stones. (See Syst. of Swy. translated by South, vol. ii. p. 617.) Velpeau's conclusion, after looking into the eases recorded by different operators, is not so favourable • he thinks that a fistula is met with in at least one' case out of four. Both statements are, however without doubt far too favourable, for if no steps are taken for the immediate closure of the wound a fistula must always be reckoned upon as the ru'k> and Its absence the exception. The general con- viction that this is the truth has caused the vesico vaginal method to be always regarded with disfavour, and to be reserved as a kind of last resort for the removal of very largo stones. The dread of fistula has even induced inany authorities and among them Velpeau himself, to prefer the' high or supra-pubic operation, notwithstanding its greater danger; and a similar opinion lias been re- cently expressed by Mr. Erichsen. The time, however, has arrived for forminir a different estimate of tho desirability of this method, and advantage may now be taken in