231 LITHOTOMY. Le Dran afterwards extracted similar stoues which adhered by a less extensive surface; and he relates an operation performed by Mare'chal, who, in 1715, extracted with a pair of forceps a stone shaped like a calabash, and havnig its narrow part surrounded by a fnngus. In one case, the position of the calculus led Le Dran to suspect that it was fixed in the extremity of the ureter. He shook it occasionally with a pair of forceps, and, lastly, it fell into the bladder, whence it was extracted without difficulty. It resembled a cucumber in shape, and its large ex- tremity had been lodged in the ureter, from which it could only be gradually removed. Sabatier be- lieves that a case of this description, which must be very uncommon, is the only one in which there is any prospect of removing an encysted stone with success. In other examples, he conceives that it is more prudent to leave the stone, and let the wound heal, than expose the patient to an almost certain death by repeated attempts to extract it. (Midecine Operatoire, t. iii. pp. 190, 194, Ed. 2.) Desault employed a sort of concealed knife, called a coupe bride, for opening the cavity or cyst; and he has recorded one example, in which he thus successfully extracted from a woman, aged 62, a stone lodged at the insertion of the ureter into the bladder. The bistoury used by Garen- geot, Desault did not consider a safe instrument, as the stones are round, and tlie knife may slip, and pierce the bladder—an objection to which, he says, the coupe bride is not liable. No injury can be received from its point, as the blade is concealed ; nor can any part be divided, except what the surgeon intends. If the incision sliould not be completed at first, the blade may be with- drawn, the semicircular notch of the instrument pushed more forward, and the incision prosecuted to any extent. This instrument was invented for the express purpose of dividing membranous bands in the rectum, but it was afterwards employed with the greatest success for the excision of dis- eased tonsils and fungous tumours situated in cavities. The blade is so contrived that, when it passes through the semicircular notch, it firmly fixes the parts which are to be divided—a thing that cannot be done either with the scissors or bistoury, as the movable parts recede, and render the section difficult, (See I'arisian C'hii: Journ. vol. i. p. 33, &c.) Sir A. Cooper mentions that, when the stone is partly in the cyst and partly in the bladder, it may sometimes be removed without opening the latter organ. In the case of a child, he passed his finger into the rectum and felt the stone, con- fined in a bag above it. On raising the calculus it struck firmly against the sound. While the finger was in the rectum, the knife was carried through the perineum above the bowel; the cyst opened, and the stone taken out, without any further opening of the bladder itself. A stone perfectly encysted would not be ex- pected to produce symptoms equal in severity to those whicli arise from an extraneous body ac- tually in the cavity of the bladder, and generally they do not have this eH"ect; yet in Houstet's interesting dissertation, several cases are recorded which prove that encysted stones do sometimes cause the same distressing symptoms whicii pro- ceed from tiie presence of a loose calculus in the bladder. Hence the patients were sounded, and. in consequence of the sacs, or pouches, in whicli the stoues lay not being entirely closed, the calculi were continually struck by the instrument, and lithotomy attempted. It deserves particular remark, also, that in a large proportion of these cases the pouches or cysts were not single but nu- merous, occupying different parts of the bladder. In some dissections referred to by Houstet, cysts of this kind were found, not containing any stones whatever—a circumstance that would rather lead one to suspect that, in general, the formation of these sacs precedes that of the calculi commonly found in them. (See Obs. sur Ics Fibres Encyst&es et adherentes a la Vessie, par M. Hoiistel, in Mem. de VAcad. de Chir. t. ii. p. 268, ed. in I2mo.) Many specimens of this kind are contained in University College Museum. I shall conclude this part of the subject with a few observations on it by Sir Benjamin Brodie:— " It very rarely happens that you meet with an encysted calculus where you perform the opera- tion of lithotomy; in fact, in the great majority of cases of encysted calculi, the bladder is diseased, so that they are quite unfit for operation; how- ever, such an event happens occasionally. A boy, about 16 years of age, was admitted into the hospital in the year 1816. He had suffered a long time from stone in the bladder. There were these remarkable circumstances in his case —namely, that the stone could sometimes be felt distinctly with the sound, appearing to be of a larger size, while at other times it could not be felt at all; and that sometimes, when the bladder was empty of urine, it could be felt distinctly with the finger from the rectum, while at other times, when there was urine in the bladder, it could not be detected at all by this mode of examination. In performing the operation, when I had introduced my finger into the bladder, I could at first discover no stone. At last I felt it on the anterior part of the bladder behind the pubes. It was not lying loose in the cavity of the bladder, but was evidently contained in a cyst, communicating with the bladder by a round opening. By means of a probe-pointed bistoury, I carefully dilated the orifice of the cyst, and then, introducing my finger, separated the mem- brane of it from the stone, until I was enabled to take hold of the stone with the forceps." It was not only encysted, but adherent, a portion of the lining of the cyst, closely attached to it, having been extracted with it. (See Sir B. Brodie on Dis. of Iho Urinary Organs, p. 287.) [The chemical nature of the stone will mainly inllucnco its tendency to give way under the pressure of the forceps. Hence it is of import- ance to ascertain beforehand, as nearly as pos- sible, the composition of the calculus which wo are about to extract. Uric acid concretions are the hardest, and the ringing sound which they emit when struck often suffices to indicate their nature. On the other hand, the triple phosphate is easily broken; but the most fragile is the fusible calculus, which sometimes cnnnbles into fragments on the slightest pressure. It is neces- sary to bear these points in mind ; for, when the operator knows that the calculus is IViablo, he will, of course, be more careful during its extrac- tion. The forceps employed should be broad- bladed, witli the teeth not very long, and the stone must be seized as lightly as possible, care