[64] INFLAMMATION. Disease, Sth cd., Lond. 1819, p. 81). But it is more troublesome tlian the administration of medi- cines, and therefore went almost out of use. Now, however, the question is raised, how shall cases of hyperpyrexia, in which the heat passes 106° or 107° be treated? (See p. 79.) One remedy which sometimes answers is quinine in large doses, another brandy, but the failure of these, as well as of bleeding, veratrum, digitalis, &c, induced Dr. Wilson Fox finally to combat the morbid heat by cold. {On the Treatment of Hyperpyrexia, as illustrated in acute articular lAeumatism, hy the external application of cold, Lond. 1871.) A patient, on the fourteenth day of rheumatic fever treated by iron, had a temperature of 105°, which slowly rose till it reached 106-4°, having risen 4-4° in nine hours. She was pros- trate,°pulso 112, and respiration 44. Six scruple doses of quinine were given at half-hour intervals; but still the thermometer rose to 107, 108, and 109-1° and the patient was unconscious and seemed' dying ; pulse imperceptible, face blue, breathing "irregular, gasping and stertorous. She was put into a bath at 96°. The temperature still rose to 110 . Then Dr. Wilson Fox made a vigorous effort to cool the body ; he applied lumps of ice to her chest, had an ice-bag tied to her spine, and had iced water poured over the patient whilst the hotter water of the bath was baled out. Within fifteen minutes the temperature had fallen to 109-1° ; in five minutes more to 108-4 (the temperature of the bath then being 66°), In half an hour the register marked 106-2° the pulse be- came perceptible, and there were signs of con- sciousness. The patient was removed from the bath and brandy was given. In an hour the tem- perature in the rectum was 100-6°, and in an hour and a half 97-4°. I must not give the details more minutely save to say that, by guarding the patient against too great a fall of temperature, by means of hot bottles to the feet, giving brandy, beef-tea, and eggs freely, and repeating a bath at 6't° when the heat threatened to rise, or checking it by ice-bags to the spine, the patient was snatched from the jaws of Erebus, and in a week was sitting up in bed eating fish. It must be noted that this treatment is not di- rected against rheumatic fever, but against that fatal rise of temperature which is liable to come on in rheumatic fever, as well as in scarlet fever, pyemia, sunstroke. &c. When the rise of tempe- rature, says Dr. Wilson Fox, is "P>d, ""d has already reached a high standard, the cold bath is the most certain and speedy means for its reduc- tion. The patient may be lifted from bed in a sheet, and placed in a tepid bath gradually lower, d —the temperature meanwhile being watched by the rectum. In less urgent cases, an ice-bag to the spine, or packing in a cold sheet, ^""";';Yr iced water, or simply sponging with '^oW vvato may suffice. Be it noted that the first applica- tion of cold may be followed by a transient u e of half a degree. No visceral complication, per .ir- dial effusion, need deter, ^>"'^« " '.^f^^ ''^^ that kills, whether there be comphcatio or no Perspiration vanishes with the extreme heat bu often returns when the skin is cooled. 1 la c shown that the surest way of checking perspuation is to heat the skin. ,• „ In a case of pyrexia arising fiom a suppurating ovarian cyst, with hot and dry skin, sliort dry coiigii, pulse 120 to 13G, and temperature 102° to 104° I Mr. Spencer Wells reduced the temperature in a few days by assiduously sponging the body with cold water every two hours, and putting an indiarubber culd water cushion under the head, and performed ovariotomy when the temperature had come down to 100°. True the removal of a cyst full of stinking pus may reduce a feverish tempe- rature to the normal ; but it would seem safer if possible to reduce the fever before operating. (On Surgical Fever, Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 27, 187-2.) Ligature of Arteries for Relief of Inflammation. —During the great civil war in America, 1862, the distinguished Professor of Anatomy in the New Orleans Medical School, devised a method of pre- venting destructive inflammation of the extremities by tying the main artery of the limb. This has been since practised both in England and on the Continent with considerable success. Used at first by Professor Campbell only in those severe cases of gun-shot wounds in which the successful double ligature, on Guthrie's plan, at the seat of injury was hardly possible, this Hunterian opera- tion was found to exercise so beneficial an effect upon the wound in arresting or greatly diminishing the subsequent inflammation, that it was employed in other severe traumatic inflammations, and with the best results. After the battle of Seven Pines (May 31,1862), many of the wounded in the General Hospital at Richmond, Va. (to which institution Dr. Campbell was consulting surgeon), suffered from the most violent and uncontrollable inflammation. Gunshot wounds of both the upper and lower extremities resisted all ordinary measures of treatment. In his Manual of Military Surgery, Dr. Campbell tells us: " Suppuration i'a many cases had ceased, and in its place a bloody water was discharged from the openings and abrasions. The swelling in these cases was immense. . . . Ligation was de- termined on (in three cases of arterial lesion with secondary hemorrhage). The extreme swelling and inflammation of the limb, extending even above the knee in all, and in one marked by large patches of incipient gangrene on the foot, presented great embarrassments to the operation at the seat of lesion. It was not the difficulties, how- ever which caused Mr. Hunter's operation to be preferred in all of these cases to Mr. Guthrie s, notwithstanding the risk of recurrent hmniorrhage. The idea pursued in departing from the rule w'as no less than the experimental effort to cure the inflammation in the limb by cutting off its arterial supply by ligation of the main trunk which supported the inflammation. The femoral artery was tied in each case near the apex of Scarpa's triangle. The hemorrhage ceased imme- diately in all three of the cases, the swelling began to decline within twelve hours, and in three or four days the limbs were reduced to very nearly their natural size, the discharge having changed from bloody water to healthy pus. In one ot these cases the supervention of recurrent hoeraorr- hage, and the consequent great exhaustion of the pafient rendered amputation above the knee ne- cessary. In this operation, " only one artery, superlicial and of small size, required tying m the stump. The stump healed by first mtention-a most unusual result of a secondary amputation. It is not unfair to presume that the previous ligation