264 forceps employed acted hy lateral pressure in an imperfect manner. The" first crusher of any value—that is to say, one in which the blades are placed one over the other and have a gliding movement forwards—was invented by the late Mr. Weiss in the year 1824. In the year 1025 Dr. Haygartli invented a sliding instrument for the extraction of small calculi from the bladder. At Mr. Hodgson's suggestion a screw was added, that it might be employed for crushing, and Mr. Hodgson tried the improved instrument on a patient in the Birmingham Hospital. To a pro- vincial English surgeon is thus due the honour of having been the first to perform the operation of crushing as it is now employed, and of appre- ciating the value of the screw as an auxiliary. But the principal improvement consisted in making the male branch of the forceps slide along the female branch in such a manner that the one could not possibly escape from the other. This simple improvement was effected by making the edges of the female groove overlap the body of the male branch—an improvement effected by Dr. Costello. Since that period, viz. 1832, various changes and modifications, wiiich it is unnecessary to notice here, have been made. It will suffice to state that the instrimients now generally employed are the improved screw lithotrite of„Weiss, or M. Civiale's instrument, which may be nsed for crushing with the hand or screw, or even as a percussor. Sir B. Brodie employed Weiss's screw forceps; Mr. Fergusson employs the rack and pinioii, whilst the writer and other surgeons in this country prefer the well-known lithotrite of M. Civiale. In M. Civiale's lithotrite the action of the screw is brought into play by a fly-wheel at the end of the instrument, while, by a peculiar con- trivance, the screw action can be at any time instantly .suspended, so as to allow the male blade to be moved backwards or forwards without the slower process of unscrewing. In the English instrument, or Weiss' lithotrite, the action is developed by means of a cross handle, as in the case of the common corkscrew. But this instru- ment is open to the objection of not being pro- vided with any means of converting the screw movement into a sliding one. Recently, liowever, Mr. Weiss and Mr. Coxeter have devised ingenious contrivances for setting the screw free. Lastly, Mr. Fergusson originally proposed and still em- ploys a rack and pinion for the purpose of de- veloping his force. _ . , , • ^ ^ Lithotrites also may be distinguished into two kinds, according as the curved extremity of the female blade is fenestrated or not. The opening in the female blade is formed for the purpose of allowinn- the fragments of stone to escape from the jaws of the instrument. The stem, or ascend- in.^ branches, are long and strong, and tins form of" lithotrite is chiefiy suited for large or hard calculi, and for the earlier manipulations llie lithotrite with solid blades is chiefly suited for crushing small calculi or reducing fogments to powder. In the first case, the female blade should be somewhat wider than the male_; in the latter, both blades may be of the same width. As pro- vision is seldom made in this latter class of instruments for the escape of detritus between the blades, care should be taken that the female .blade LITHOTRITY. be not too concave or hollowed out, for in such case the detritus is apt to become lodged between the blades of the instrument and occasion much inconvenience, if not danger, iu the working of the instrument. Whatever instrument be chosen, there are some general points to which attention should be paid. The instrument itself should have been well proved for strength. The male branch should glide easily along the female, and not give rise to any grating sound at the screw part. The edges of the blade should be well rounded off, so as not to hurt or irritate the bladder; and when shut, they should perfectly meet. The cavity in the female branch must not be too deep, so as to become filled with detritus; nor should the eye at the extremity of the instrument be too large; for, if so, the fragments may be too large and angular to pass the urethra. The first duty of the surgeon is, of course, to consider and decide whether the case before him is one suited to lithotritj', a question which will be discussed more conveniently under the head of indications. Let us suppose the case suitable for the employment of lithotrit}', and that the general health of the patient has been brought, by pre- liminary treatment, into a favourable condition; in other words, that proper means have been employed to remove all such local or general dis- orders as are likelj"- to exercise any dangerous influence on the result of the operation. It is the more necessary to attend to these points, because, before proceeding to operate, the surgeon should, by a careful examination of the urinary organs, obtain some notion of the capacity and contractile power of the bladder; the con- dition of the prostate; tlie size of the stone; in a word, of various circumstances connected with the substance on which he is about to act and the organs in which he is about to operate. For practical purposes it is not necessary to ascertain the size of the calculus within a few lines; all we want to know is whether it be a large or a moderately sized one; and likewise to obtain sufficient knowledge relative to the sensibility and contractile powers of the bladder, &c. &c. Before operating, however, an important question presents itself. Should the patient be submitted or not to the influence of chloroform? M. Civiale and Sir Benjamin Brodie have both pronounced against the use of chloroform in lithotritic opera- tions. The feelings of the patient are a most useful guide in two essential matters; they serve to indicate whether an injury is being inflicted on the soft parts, and they assist us in determining whether the operative proceedings are continued beyond what the bladder and constitution arc capable of enduring. On the other hand, the use of an anffisthetic agent is attended by many palpable advantages. Children are so unmanage- able that they sliould be rendered insensible when submitted to litiiotrity;'and in the female also several advantnges will be gained by chloroform. In males of a nervous temperament, and who' cannot bear the least pain, the use of chloroform is of great service throughout the whole of the sittings. In cases also where the stone has been partly crushed without the aid of chloroform, and great irritability of the bladder supervenes, chloroform may become indispensable in the sub- sequent operations. Lastlj', in thfr examination of