1 INFLAMMATION dying, ceasing to suppurate, and yielding a thin bloody ichor. {Dhsertalion stir les Fievres rimit- teiites (/ni comp/ujue/ii lesyrandes Plaies. A/an. de la Hoc. med. d'Kiiiuiulion, Piiris, An IX.) It will not be easy to distinguish between mala- rious fever and pya3uua when wounded patients in hospital in a malarious district are seized with shivering. In the military hospitals within Meta,. during the late siege, where hospital disease, pri- vation, and mental depression were combined with the malaria Croni a large tract of inundated land, this difficulty of diagnosis was of constant occur- rence. Many of the patients speedily recovered under large doses of (juinine; and whilst most of the surgeons, with ray friend Dr. R. R. Good, saw in this the proof of malaria, others, with possibly less experience and more enthusiiism, were led to believe that they had cured pysemia speedily with quinine. Scorbutic hifiamrmitions.—The scurvy, inasmuch as it is often manifested in troops and other bodies of men exposed to malaria, may be suspected to be a conjoint element with malaria in some diseases, especially dysentery and ophthalmia in hot climates. The ecchymoses caused by scurvy in the viscera are sometimes followed by iiiflanmiation ; as^for in- stance, of the pleura or lung. The swelling of the gums most probably, says Dr. Buzzard, depends on effusion of plastic material. But the scorbutic phenomena most akin to ordinary inflammation are the fiiirimuis effusions, sometimes organised and vascular, in the interstices of muscles and about the joints. (Buzzard, in Reynolds' Si/st. of Med vol. i. p. 7.52.) Scrofulous Injkunmation may be one of two things: First, any inflammation occurring in a scrofulous patient will be modified by the cha- racters of the constitution. In- the lymphatic and sanguine variety of scrofula, it will be'characterised by great intensity and irritability, wi-th the lapid effusion and partial organisation of plastic lymph, and may be followed by a chronic period of almost mdefinite duration. In the torpid ordark-skinned va- riety, an acute inflammation maybe attended with a very smallamouiitof p<iin,oi;Diay be latent, ending in a chronic stage marked by atendeney to ulceration of various tissues, especially of the bones, joints, and glands. The niucnus membranes are frequent •seats of scrofulous inflammation, as the otorrhcea of children, scrofulous ophthalmia, ophthalmia tarsi, and oziena. The frequency in times past of the swelled coliimna nasi and edfjes of the nostrils, and the pouting and reddened upper lip, irritated hy the discharge from the nose, induced Cullen to reckon these amongst the sijiiis of scrofulii. Second- I.V, the specific "tuberculous" inflammation; the condition in which it prevails being called •' tuber- culosis." This is considered the sign of scrofula par emlleiice. An exudation or cell growth occurs in the substance of gland, bone, brain, peritoneum, or other structure, buteapecially in the 'I'nf?. The nature of the new growth is declared iJr. Burdon Sanderson to be a tissue of lymph corpusdes held together by a network of hyaline •-onnecting substance. There is a close strurtural aimlngy between this substance and that of certain '"llicular organs belonging to the lymphatic system— "f nistance, to the follicles of I'eyer, and the anipul- .6 ot the lymphatic glands. Tims this tissue exists naturally „, the favourite seats of tubercle ; it *'sts, for instance, in serous membranes around'the VOL. II. 49, blood-vessels, and in microscopic masses under the epithelium. Tuberculosis, therefore, according to this authority, is an overgrowth of existing ele- ments, and not a new growth. (Burdon Sander- son m the l\th Report of Medical Officer of Priu,, CMmcit, p. lU) Tubercular infiltration of the lymphatic glands in the neck and in the mesentery, miliary tubercles ia the lung, tubercular menin- gitis and peritonitis, are the commonest examples. We must add,, that the exudation, like all other morbid cell-growths,, is liable to decay, and to break down into a cheesy mass, known as "yellow "or " cheesy tubercle ; " but it must be remembered that the yellow cheesy mass has nothing specific about It, and ought not to be called tubercular, unless It be the dihris of the true- specific tuber- cular exudation. Under the microscope some of the contents of an old ovarian cyst, portions of any . old tum nir cancer or encliondroina, may show amor- phous globules, ail globules, and perhaps crystals of cholesterine; and these things are sometimes wrongly called tnbeioular." Any low inflamma- tory exudation in the lungs, in the areolar tissue, or in bone, may partly degenerate in this way, partly soften into pus. Such products are most frequent in persons of delicate organisation, and are usually, considered strumous, tubercular, or phthisical. Syphilitic Iiiflainination is, in- the first place, an indolent enlargement of the tissues round the Hunterian chancre and the chain of absorbents leading from it; followed by scaly eruptions,-mu- cous tubercles in the- throat,, and other conse- quences. It presents-peculiarities of colour, form, and Older, and affects certain internal organs, especially the liver, the wa,xy deposits in which^ from this cause, are well-described by Dr. Wilks! (For a full description, see Syphilis.) ErysipdiUom and Septic Inflammations are de- scribed under KrysipeljJ.s. Dysenteric Influniinaiiun gets its name from the spasm accidentally associated with it. It is charac- terised by great injection and exfoliation of the mucous membrane of the large bowel, and is possibly attended with superficiiU gangrene, givinir rise to ulcers. ° ° Inflammations similar as regards exudation varying in accidents, constitute dysmenorrhma, cystitis, orowp, and diphtheria. They are all acute and produce their characteristic efl^ects rapidly' namely, the evolution of a false membrane, made' up of the epithelium mixed with blood, and with the inflammatory exudation passing into pus. But between diphtheria and croup there are unmistakable distinctions. Diphtheria be- gins in the pharynx or fauces, or perhaps on the conjunctiva, or some part of the skin which has been stripped of its epithelium, or the vulva • it follows any causes of constitutional depression such as inhalation of putrid gases, fevers, measlesi or scrolula, and is propagated by contagion. It is often followed by h;omoirhage from the bared surface, when the exudation is detached, enlarge- ment of the lymphatic glands, auresthesia, and a peculiar and obstinate paralysis of various p;irtS, especially tliofe whose nerves are affected by con- tiguity. It differs from croup in all these particu- lars, though it may perhaps get into the windpipe and exhibit the mechanical and spasiuodic synir- toms of croup. Moreover it attacks persons of all ages. Croup, on the other hand, is a disease of childhood, dependent usually on changes of 111