iTOMY, 202 LITHO tween its blades, tbeir removal was painful, more especially at the glaiis penis, wliich appears to be the portion of the urethra which makes the great- est resistance to the removal ol' the stones. A dose of opium was given after each operation." {Med. C/di: Trans, vol. xi. p. 358.) Sir A. Cooper thus removed from the above patient eighty-four calculi at different times. From one patient, Sir B. Brodie also extracted in the same manner about sixty calculi of various sizes; but the largest measured half an inch in one dia- meter, and five-eighths in the other. (Op. cit. vol. xii. p. 383.) In one case, Sir Astley Cooper took out with the urethral forceps a calculus that weighed fifty-four grains, after having gradually dilated the uretlira with bougies. (Vol. cit. p. 387.) Other convincing examples of the practi- cability p,nd success of the practice are also re- lated by the same distinguished surgeon. Accord- ing to his valuable observations, when a great nimiber of calculi are found in the bladder, they are generally attended with an enlargement of the prostate gland, and are lodged in a sacculus formed directly behind it, ' (Med. Cldr. Trans. vol. xi, p. 357.) To me, the establishment of the precedmg practice by Sir Astley Cooper, and of lithotrity for cases properly admitting of it, seem two of the greatest triumphs of modern surgery; and I have no doubt, that the names of all concerned in bringing them about, will receive from th& latest posterity the honour which cannot fail to attach itself to improvements, by which the necessity for a severe and highly dangerous 1 operation is rendered considerably less frequent. Even when the stone cannot be drawn completely out of the luethra by the forceps, but only into it, the ad- vantage is great, because it may then be easily cut down to and extracted, without any wound or in- jury of the bladder, (See Med, Ckir. Trcms. vol. xi.) See Lithotritv. I shall next describe the various methods of cutting for the stone. Op the Apparatus Minor, Cutting on the Gripe, or Celsus's Method. The most ancient kind of lithotomy was that practised upwards of two thousand years ago, by Ammouius, at Alexandria, in the time of Hero- philus and Erasistratus, and by Meges, at Rome, during the reign of Augustus; and being described by Celsus, is named Lithotomia Celsiana, As the stone, fixed by the pressure of the fingers in tlie anus, was cut directly upon, it has been called cutting on the gripe, a knife and a hook being the only instruments used. The appellation of the lesser apparatus was given to it by Marianus, in order to distinguish it from a method which he described, called the apparatus major, from the many instruments employed. The operation was performed in the following way. The rectum was emptied by a glyster a few hours previously; and innnediately before cutting, the patient was desired to walk about Ins chamber to bring the stone down to the neck of the bladder; he was then placed in the lap of an assistant, or secured in the manner now practised in the lateral operation. The surgeon then introduced the fore and middle fingers of his left hnnd,well oiled, into the anus, while he pressed with the palm of his right hand on the lower part of the abdomen above the pubes, In order to promote the descent of ilio stone. With thefingersthecalculuswasnexl griped, pushed forward toward the neck of the bladder, and made to protrude and form a tumour on tlie left side of the perineum. The operator then took a scalpel and made a lunatcd incision through the skin and cellular substance, directly on tlie stone near the anus, down to. the neck of the bladder, the extremities of the incision being directed somewhat towards the thigh. Then, in the deeper and narrower part of the wound, a second transverse incision was made on the stone into the neck of the bladder itself, till the iiowing out of the urine showed that the incision exceeded in some degree the size of the stone. The calculus being strongly pressed upon with the fingers next started out of itself, or was extracted with a hook for the purpose. {Celsus, lib. vii. cap. 26; J. Bell's Principles, vol. ii, p. 42; Allan on Lilhotomij, p. 10.) The objections to cutting on the gripe are the impossibility of always dividing the same parts; for those which are cut will vary, according to the degree of force employed in making the stone pro- ject in the perineum. When little exertion is made, if the incision be begun just behind the scrotum, the urethra may be altogether detached from the prostate; if the stone be much pushed out, the bladder may be entered beyond the pros- tate, and both the vesicidse seminales and vasa deferentia inevitably suffer. Lastly, if the parts are just sufficiently protruded, the neck of the bladder will be cut, through the substance of the prostate gland. {Allan on Liiliotomy. Burns in Edinh. Surg. Joimial, No. xiii. J. Bell, vol. ii. p. 59.) The preceding dangers were known to Fabricuis Hildanus, who attempted to obviate them by cut- ting on a stafi; introduced through the urethra into the bladder. He began his incision in the peri- neum about half an inch on the side of the raphe; and he continued the cut, inclining the knife, as he proceeded, towards the hip. He continued to divide the parts till he reached the staff; after which, he enlarged the wound to such an extent as permitted him easilj-, with a hook, to extract the stone, which he had previously brought into the ueck of the bladder, by pressure with the fin- gers in the rectum. {Burns.) In this way, Sir C. Bell has operated with success. The apparatus minor, as practised by Fabricius, with tlie aid of a stall; is certainly a very simple operation on children, and some judicious surgeons doubt the propriety of its present neglected state. " You cut (says an eminent writer) upon the stone, and make, of course, with perfect security, an in- cision exactly proportioned to its size. There is no difficult or dangerous dissection; no gorget, or other dangerous instrument, thrust into the blad- der, with the risk of its passing betwixt that ami the rectum; you are performing, expressly, the lateral incision of Raw and Chesclden, ni tlie most simple and fiivourable way. The pnsca snu- plicitas instrumcntorum seems here to have bcc^n deserted, for the sake of inventing more ingenious and complicated operations." {J. Bell.) [Foubert employed a modification of the Cdsian method. Having filled tlie bladder with 1 uid, and introduced the left forefinger into the rectum, he plunged a trocar, five inches long, nito the skin at about an inch from the anus, and two or three