- WOUNDS, in the swelling, and thirteen pints of what ap- peared to be pure bile were evacuated. The bowels then soon became rei;ular and the appetite good. In twelve days the operatiim was repented, and fifteen pints of the same bilious fluid were drawn off. Nine days afterwards another puncture was made, and thirteen pints more let out; and six were discharged in another fortnight. From this period, the boy went on well, and perfectly recovered under the use of light tonic medicines. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 330.) A previous accidental adhesion of the gall-blad- der to the peritoneum might also prevent the e.xtravasation of bile and its dangerous effects. {Cal/isen, Spat. Chir. Hodierrice, t. i. p. 7] 8.) According to Dr. Hennen, a deep wound of the liver is as fatnl as if the heart itself was engaged. The slighter injuries are recoverable. He states, that tlie usual symptoms of a wound of the liver are yellowness uf the skin and urine ; derange- ment of the alimentary canal, and great and dis- tressing itching of the skin. The discharge from the wound is generally yellow and glutinous ; though sometimes either serous, or like unmixed bile. (Oil jMUikay Smyeri/, ed.-2, p. 4:29.) For some other interesting observations on wounds of tlie liver I have great pleasure in referring to the latter work. (See also Wedekind, de Vulnere Hepalis curalo. Jan£e, 1735 ; and Thomson's lie- port of Obs. made in the Mililary Hospitals in Bel- gium, 8vo. 1816.) 4. Urine.— Urine may be extensively diffused in the abdomen, when the bladder is wounded at any part connected with the peritoneum ; but mostly it gravitates towards the cui-de-sac of the latter membrane. In this kind of case, the urine is to be diawn off with a catheter, which is to be kept in the urethra ; but tlie accident is mostly fatal. (See Bladder.) Many instances are re- corded of other parts of the bladder being injured even by gun-shot wounds, and of the patients getting well. I have seen various examples of this in the course of my professional experience. Wounds of tlie bladder are attended with a discharge of bloody urine, and a difficulty of making water. They are always dangerous cases, both on account of the risk of the effusion of so irritating a fluid in the abdomen, and of the chance of extravasation in the cellular tissue. Under pro- per treatment, however, if the urine does not get into the peritoneal cavity, they often admit of cure. (See Gun-shot Wounds.) If possible, the effused fluid should be discharged by a de- pending posture, or suitable incisions, and the re- currence of extravasation prevented by the intro- duction of a catheter, which is to be left in the Urethra. The patient must also be allowed little drink. As fur the tension and pain of the belly, tile common attendants of a wounded bladder, they may be greatly relieved by the use of the ■warm bath (C'ulliseii, t. i. p. 719), or, rather, fo mentations, wliicli would not require the patient to be moved; bleeding, low diet, and other anti- phlogistic means not being omitted. Wounds of the Htuinuoh.—As Dr. Hennen has observed, these cases are extremely dangerous, though not always mortal. *' Baron Percy ciilcli- latea, that, of twenty cases, fuui' or live only have escaped ; this, however, is ii most favourable aver- age.' Two cures of wounds of the stomach lire reported by Dr. Tliomsuu. (Ois. mixde in Ilia Mi- litary Hospitals ill Delyiam, tt-c.) With respect to tlie chances of recovery. Dr. Ilenneii justly re- marks, that the histories of the Bohemian, Prus- sian (Z>. Deckher de CuUrivoro Prussiaco, 12rao. Lugd. 1638.), and English " Cultrivores," froni some of whom the knives have been cut out, and in others, discharged spontaneously through the coats of the stomach, and the parietes of the abdo- men, are very encouraging. In France, a silver fork was extra:;ted from a young man's stomach, by M. Renaud, of Romans, in the department of the Drome, who performed gastronoinv for the purpose, with complete success. (See Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Med. No. xviii. p. 301.) Hevin has collected many instances of recovery, both from incised and gun-shot wounds of the stomach. (Mein.de I'Acad, de Chir. t. i.) But, according t ) Dr. Hennen, Ploucquet, in the articles "Ventri- ciilus " and "Pantophagi," has brought together the largest number of cases. Dr. Hennen also refers to Louihorpe''s Abridgement of the Phil, Trans, vol. vi. p. 192, for instances, in which the stomach of a horse was wounded, and sewn up ; and the same practice extended to the human sub- ject, with success. It appears also fiom the An- nales de Litteratiire, &c., t. ii., by Kluyskeiis, from Sehlichting's Traumatoloyia and the Bulleliii de la Faculle, 4'C., t. v. p. 386, that wounds of the hu- man stomach have been stitched with success in various cases of recent date. (See Heiineiis Mi- litary Surgery, ed. 2, p. 438.) As the latter author observes, wounds of the stomach not unfre- quently become fistulous, and remain open. In a case, recorded by Richerand, the fistula continued open nine years ; and in another instance related by EttmuUer, ten years. (De Vulnere Veniriculi Progranmia, Lip. 1730.) And Weucker has de- tailed a case, in which the opening continued twenty-seven 3-ears. (See Halleri Dissert. Chir, vol. V. art. 19.) For farther information connected with this subject the reader may also consult Jimgende Lelhalitate Vulnerum Ventriculi., Helnist. 1751 ; Ludov. Horn de Ventriculi Riiptum, 8vo. Berol. 1317. Also Med. Chir. Journ, vol. v. p. 72. [If the wound in the viscus cannot be secured, the external wound must not be closed, but free exit given by position, &c., to effusion. II the omentum, healthy and uninjured, protrude by an abdominal wound, it should of course be at once returned and the wound in the parietes closed, but if it is wounded the vessels should be first twisted. If the omentum is bruised, or its vitality in any way compromised, a double ligature being passed through it so as to tie it in two halves, what is required should be cut off, and the stump returned within the external wound. If any of the solid viscera protrude, they arc to be treated on the same principles as have beeii above inculcated. The bladder, kidneys, imd ureter may of course be wounded, and yet the peri- toneum not be opened.] G. H. B. Madeod. Cies. Mapahli, De Kara Mndicationc Vulnerum* sen (le Vuliieribus rnro tractnudls, fol. Ven. lu'"-,,,'^- Head, his works, contnlninp: 1. Lectures oil I'lj mors and Ulcers, a. A ti entise of the First I art .,!■ Chirui-ifery, which tearhetli the lUuiiitioii ot the I'liris of the Hody tllsloiuted nnd the Ineiliodlcal Doclrine of Woumie, .Vc. ed. 2, 8vo. Lond. M '- Wei'iier, De Vulneribus absolute et rer icthalibus. Ucgioni. 1650. J. liohlt, Vti UenutlCiu