tefiictioii. The first, iiamelj', softening, also termed suppuration, consists in this: after the tubercle has tarried for a certain time in the above described condition of crudity, it loosens up, for the most part with considerable increase of volume, readily breaks asunder through compression, moistens. Hereupon it changes into a yellowish, glutinous, fatty, tenacious substance, like melted cheese, and eventually liquefies to a thin, wliey-like iluid of acid reaction, wherein flocculent and fragmentary particles, the remnants of tubercle imperfectly broken up, float as tubercle pus. In the larger tubercle masses there is often observable, during the said process, a cleft formation on a large scale; or, where the tubercle is spread out in a layer, a Assuring of this latter. With regard to the elementary character of the tubercle at this stage, we would observe : the softening consists in a liquefaction aud breaking up of the solidified base of the tubercle to a fluid loaded with point- molecule. This transformation results in a separa- tion or isolation of the form elements of the tubercle, which, at the same time, undergo within the fluid a more or less marked change. Thus, the cells become turgescent, corroded, dissolved; the nuclei shrivelled and misshapen, irregular, angular, pouched, &c. At length free fat becomes develiiped in the softened tubercle. Hence, the liquefied tubercle consists {a) of a fluid with point molecule ; (6) of the isolated nuclei and cells changed in the manner just now specified; {o) of free fat in the shape of elementary granules and larger scattered globules. " The other metamorphosis of this tubercle is ci-elefaction. It never aff^ects the tubercle blastema in i[s primitive condition, but only in its liquefy- ing or liquefied state. During the softening process, or alter its completion, the tubercle takes up lime-salts and fats in the shape of free discrete or aggregated elementary molecule, or else in granule cells in the form of big drops of choles- terine crystals. In this act, the softened tubercle is progressively thickened into a moist, unctuous chalk-pap, and eventually converted into a concrete mortar."] Scrofula generally first shows itself during in- fancy, between the ages of three and seven; some- times ratiier sooner ; but frequently as late as puberty, and in some instances, not till a more ad- vanced period of life. In the latter cases, the dis- ease is said to be rarelj- so complete, or well marked, as it is in young subjects. Sir A. Cooper mentions the period of growth generally, as the time of life for scrofula ; and its first commence- ment, afterwards, he agrees with most writers in pronouncing very uncommon. " Cette malndie (says Alibert) est commuii^ment le partage do la premiere enfance. II est rare qu'elle sedc'veloppe chez les adultes. Je Tai pourtant observde chez des septuagenaires ; niais presque toujours ce sont les effets de la dentition qui la font dclore, et ceux de la puberte qui la font dvanouir." {Nosol. Na- tarelle, p. 448.) These statements do not apply to tubercular forms of scrofula. By some authors, it is stated, that the disease seldom attacks the glands in children under two years of age. Dr. Thomson, however, has seen the glands affected before this period, and Dr. Cullen used to mention a case, in which the disease broke out ill an infant only three months old; which is uncommon. But, though glandular scrofula oc- FULA. 553 curs most frequently in children, it is by no means confined to that period of life. Dr. Thomson has even found the mesenteric glands affected with scrofulous inflammation in persons of very advanced age. {Lectures on Injlammatiun, \\. 130.) Pro- bably, however, such patients had laboured under scrofulous complaints in their earlier days; and it merits notice, that some authors, like Dr. Henning (p. 110), do not regard enlargements of the me- senteric glands as an unequivocal specimen of scro- fula. But, how they can retain this opinion, when they see tubercular matter in those parts, I cannot understand. It is observed by Mr. Lloyd, that the susceptibility of difterent parts to the disease " is altered by age : thus, in children, the upper lip, eyes, glands of the neck, and those of the me- sentery, are generally the parts first affected; the lungs, bones, aud other parts, being subsequently attacked. It happens sometimes too in children, that small lumps form under the skin in various parts of the body, which suppurate, ulcerate, and pursue the same course with scrofulous abscesses in general." {On Scrofula, p. 5.) A species of warts, he says, also often forms about the face and neck of children of a scrofulous habit, but seldom in adults. " In more advanced age, the eyes, upper lip, and lymphatic glands are comparatively seldom affected; while the lungs, the other vis- cera, and the spongy parts of the bones are fre- quently attacked." Scrofula is also as hereditary as any disease cau be; that is to say, it is so inasmuch as any par- ticular kind of temperament or constitution can descend, more or less completely, from parents to children. Mr. White, Dr. Ilenning, and others have strongly censured calling the disease hereditary; but their observations only lead to these conclu- sions, that children, born of scrofulous parents, are not invariably affected with scrofulous dis- eases ; and that, sometimes, one child has some strumous affection, while the parents, and all the rest of the family, have no appearance of scrofulous habits. However, I still conceive, that neither Mr. White, nor any other writer, will maintain the opinion, that scrofula does not much more frequently afflict the children of scrofulous parents, than the offspring of persons who have always been per- fectly free from every tendency to any form of this affliction. Too numerous are the facts, which fall under my own notice, to allow me to entertain the smallest doubt, that scrofula prevails in certain fa- milies. In this sense, I think the term hereditary perfectly accurate and allowable. But, at the same time, I beg the reader to understand, that I have no intention of questioning what seem to be irre- fragable truths, viz. that the children of scrofulous parents often continue, as long as they live, en- tirely free from the disease; and that one child ig sometimes afflicted, while its father, mother, bro- thers, sisters, and all the rest of its relations, have never had any tendency to strumous disorders. It sliould also be recollected, that the doctrine of a congenital tendency to the disease in particular families is one which interferes with some theories, which have been offered about the predisposing cause of the disease, as for instance with that of Dr. Henning, who declares that such cause is fo- reign to the body, and depends upon peculiarity of climate (On tlui Pallioloyy of Scrofula, p. 6.9, &c.); an opinion, which is incorrect only in respect to its exclusion of the influence of other circumstances.