LITHOTOMY that women are less liable to stone than men; but beyond this general fact little more precise infor- mation has been determined. If we take hospital reports it would appear that for about twenty males operated on for calculus there will be one female but for obvious reasons it is probable that the pro- portion of females affected by sJone is much higher. Although the abstraction of a stone from the fe- male bladder is so much more simple than lithotomy in the male, yet the former operation has under- gone a much greater variety of modifications than the latter. The various methods which have been proposed will require some further consideration, and it will be convenient to offer a few additional remarks on each separately. In comparing them, there are two points to be borne in mind—first, that the operation should be as far as possible free from immediate danger to the patient ; secondlj', that it should be as far as possible free from the risk of subsequent incontinence of urine. 249 Dilatation of the Urethra.—It has been shown n the present article that this has for a long time been the favourite method of removing calculi from the female bladder; and there is no doubt that it is still, in the present day, more resorted to than any other. The facility of performance and free dom from danger to life will always strongly re- commend it to both surgeon and patient ; and for small stones, the opinion is, we believe, unanimous that it deserves preference over every other pro- ceeding. But with a large stone there is always the risk that the excessive dilatation may so far injure the sphincter fibres at the neck of the bladder, that the patient is left with a permanent in- ability to retain her urine—a condition the misery of which is incalculable, and which surgery can do little or nothing to relieve. Nearly every writer on the subject, both formerly and in recent times, has noticed the liability to this unfortunate acci- dent ; and it would be, therefore, highly desirable if we could decide to what extent dilatation may be safely practised. No doubt there are many authentic cases recorded where stones of large size have been removed through the urethra without being followed by incontinence, but this result can never be reckoned upon with certainty, and it ill no way alters the fact that it is impossible to )-ay beforehand how much distension any particular urethra will endure without permanent and irrepa- rable damage. We are disposed to fix, as a maxi- mum for this operation, a measurement of about three-quarters of an inch in the short diameter of the stone for an adult, and half an inch in children. B"or larger stones than this there are other and pre- ferable methods, which will be presently alluded to. The question nextarises, whether rapid or gradual dilatation is to be preferred. On this point there has always been and there still is a considerable difference of opinion. Mr. Coulson is in favour of immediate or rapid dilatation, and has removed a stone four ounces in weight which had formed round a hair-pin without any incontinence resulting.. Ho thinks that the liability to incontinence after dilatation has been exaggerated. Mr. Bryant, of Guy's Hospital, is also in favour of rapid dilatation, on the principle that '.lastic tissues recover their tone more readily when rapidly stretched than when subjected to a slow and tedious process of extension. He also thmks that the risk of permanent incon- tinence IS not so great as is generally supposed. In corroboration of these views, he has tabulated twenty-eight cases of- vesical calculus removed by urethral dilatation, in only four of which was there any subsequent incontinence. In each of these four, the urethra had been sIowIt/ dilated, whilst in most of the twenty-four successful cases the dilatation had been rapid. Two successful cases of his own are recorded in the same paper. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xlvii. p. 151, 1864.) On the other hand. Dr. Humphry, of Cam- bridge, has recently recorded some very suc- cessful cases, in which he dilated the urethra gradually by means of catgut bougies, taking from twenty-four to forty-eight hours to complete the process. The catgut bougies, swelling with the moisture, dilate the passage in the most gentle and gradual manner. After three or four hours, two or three more bougies are to be inserted, and ad- ditional ones in such numbers and at such intervals as may be found to be desirable, until the re- quisite dilatation is effected. Dr. Humphry mentions several cases, in which stones, some of them of large size, were removed in this way. All the patients recovered quickly and completely. (See Lancet, July 30, 1864.) Incision of the Urethra is the next method to be considered. The urethra and neck of the bladder have been divided in every conceiv- able direction for the removal of stone—directly downwards towards the vagina — downwards and outwards parallel with the rami of the pubes and ischium, on one or on both sides— horizontally on one or both sides—upwards and outwards towards the pubic ramus—directly up- wards towards the pubic symphysis. Incision also has often been used as an adjunct to dilatation. The vertical incision directly doionwards has been recommended by Professor Chelius, of Hei- delberg ; a grooved staff is introduced into the bladder, and its convexity made to press down- wards. The knife or lithotome cache' is then carried along the groove into the bladder, dividing directly downwards in the median line the neck of the bladder, the urethra, and the corresponding wall of the vagina. The incision of the urethra and neck of the bladder downwards into the vagina affords great facility for the extraction of a stone and is attended with but little if any immediate risk ; but It IS nevertheless a very objectionable operation. The thin divided edges of the urethra gape widely apart ; no jinion is likely to take place, and incontinence of urine will be the certain result. The attempt has been occasionally made of late years with varying success to remedy this defect, by the immediate insertion of sutures to keep the cut surfaces in contact; but if the stone is to be removed through an incision and the edges are to be brought together by suture it IS useless to divide the urethra in its whole length Nothing is gained by commencing the incision lartlier forwards than opposite the vesical orifice of the urethra; division of that canal aftbrds no additional room for the extraction of a stone, while ts cut edges are so thin and delicate, that they are niuch more difficult to unite by a plastic operation than are the denser textures of the vesico-vagin-il septum corresponding to the neck and baae of the