large it dilatea upon coughing; and it swells in the ei-ect, and retires in the recumbent, posture of the bmiy. There is only one sure method of distin- guisliing the two complaints : place the piitient in a horizontal position, and empty the swelling by pressure upon the scrotum; then put the fingers firmly upon the upper part of the abdominal ring and desire the patient to rise; if it is hernia, the tumor cannot reappear so long as the pressure is continued at the ring; but if it is a varicocele, the swelling returns with increased size, on account of the return of blood into the abdomen being pre- vented by the pressure. {Sir Astley Cuoper on Iiiyiiinal Hernia.) When the complaint is attended with pain, cold saturnine astringent lotions may be applied, and, if very severe, blood may be taken away by means of leeches; the bowels should be kept open ; tlie patient placed in the horizontal posture ; and the testicle supported by a suspensory bandage. In general, nothing more is required than the suspensory bandage, cold applications, purgatives, and sometimes leeches, to remove any temporarj' uneasiness or pain resulting from varicocele ; and then the disease remains stationary, the patient merely wearing the suspensory bandage, without which the uneasiness will soon return. Patients with varicocele should also have recourse to cold bathing, and avoid costiveness ; which precautions, if not adequate to effect a radical cure, will gene- rally keep the disease from making progress and becoming troublesome. Gooch and other writers relate cases in wiiich the pain was so intolerable and incurable, that castration was the only means of relief. Putting castration out of the question, let us briefly inquire what expedients have been tried when tiie disease is productive of unusually severe pain, and resists ordinary treatment. Some practitioners, on the authority of Celsus, have cut down upon the varicose veins and put a ligature round them. In one instance, Sir Everard Home, like Paul Cu- mano, at Trieste, performed such an operation in St. George's Hospital. '' In this case, venous inflammation took place, attended with so much constitutional disturbance, that the patient nearly died." {Sir Benjamin Brodie, in Land. Med. Gaz. vol. xiii. p. .379.) At the present day, this use of the ligature is abandoned; for if not followed by a dangerous or fatal attack of phlebitis, it would probably be so by atrophy of the testicle. J. L Petit, in several instances, cut awaj' the clusters of varicose spermatic veins, as is stated, with such success that, in one instance, where the varicocele had been as large as a child's head pre- viously to the operation, the function of the tes- ticle, which had been in a weakened state, was strengthened by this proceeding. More generally, howevur, atrophy, or sometimes even suppuration of the testis, might be a consequence of tlie liga- ture or excision of the veins. It app.'ars that the latter was what happened to the patient operated up m by Dflpech, and by whom this distinguished surgeon was assassinated out of revenge. (See JJlandin, vol. cit. p. 50!!.) In the liope of avoiding both phlebitij and atro- phy of the testicle, M. Havat recommended pa>fi- iiig under the veins, through the integuments, a pin, over which a ligature was twisted so as to make pressure. With the same view, M. Hre.schot proposed pbliteratiug the vein by pinching it up VARICOCELE. 608 together with the skin, by menns of a pair of com; pressing forceps. Another practice is that of Dr. Fricke, which consists in passing a seton, of three or lour threads, tiirough the bundle of varicose veins. In a case of varicocele of such severity as to require an operation, Mr. Mayo would be dis- posed to recommend the application of potassa fusa to the plexus of veins, having first exposed them by dividing the skin. {Outlines of Human Palho- logi/, p. SG2,) The practice advited by Breschet or Fiicke has the recommendation of simplicity and mild- ness. But I believe the necessity f ir any opera- tion is very rare. In one case, where the pain was excessive, and supposed to arise from pressure of the varix on some nervous filament. Sir Ben- jamin Brodie divided the skin, and then cut through the varix with a pair of scis-;or£ " A little bleeding took place, but none of any conse- quence ; pressure for a few minutes stopped it. The wound healed; no inconvenience followed the operation, and the patient was entirely relieved of the pain he sulTered previously." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xiii. p. 379.) In another case of bad varicocele, in a boy, the same gentleman applied a blister over the tumor, and kept it open, and the varicocele and the pain were considerably lessened by it. Mr. Wormald has lately mentioned some cases in which painful varicoceles were relieved by means of a ring, about an inch in diameter, made of soft silver wire, of a suitable thickness, padded and covered with wash-leather. " Through this," says he, " I drev/ the lower part of the scrotum, whilst the patient was in the recumbent position, and the veins comparatively empty. I then pressed the sides of the instrument together with sufficient force to prevent the scrotum escaping. The use of this instrument, every morning before the patient rose from his bed, enabled him to walk nineteen miles on the third day after its application; and although he has for six years worn an instrument of this description, he has never experienced the least inconvenience." [Man}' methods of operation have been devised for the relief of this affection, all having for a common object the obliteration of the dilated veins. Ricord has applied to a varicocele the very ingenious form of ligature recommended by Tavignot for an artery, and it has been largely practised. It consists in passing a double ligature through the scrotum between the veins and the vas deferens, and another through the same open- ings in the skin, but commencing from the opposite side above the veins between thera and the in- tegument : the double ends of each ligature are then passed through the loop of the other, so that the veins are included in a sort of running knot ; the ligatures are fastened to an instrument with a rack, called a serre nanid, and tightened dailv until they cut their way through the veins. Of the many operations which have been suggested, that which seems best to fulfil the purpose of occluding the veins, and to olfur less risk and inconvenience to the patient, is the method of Davat, referred to above, which has since been practised by Velpcan, .lobert, Liston, and others. In this a pin is passed through the scrotum beneath the veins, between them and the vas deferens, and a ligature twisted round the ends of the pin in the form of a figure 8, so as to n.ake suflicient pressure to arrest the flow