VISION, occurrence. The most bulging pnrt of the dis- tension often corresponds to the region of the yellow spot, or lies somewhere between this spot ■and the nearest niaryiit of the optic disc, and may project as much us 'J'" beyond the general curva- ture of tli« sclerotic. The distension round the optic disc may be very considerable without there beiny any circumscribed pioUusion of the eyeball at all. The antero-posterior diameter of the eye in some cases amounted to from 14'" to 15"', and the transverse diameters to from 10"' to 12"'. Corresponding to the externally perceptible changes of curvature and colour of tlie" sclerotic, we find changes ia the choroid, the optic disc and the retina. TJie Choroid.—In this tunic occur changes which, once seen with the ophthalmoscope, can hardly be mistaken again. The changes are those of atrophy preceded by hyperajniia. They are the result of distension, aiid are most con- spicuous in the choroid on account of the great alteration of its colour. The signs of atrophy be- come mare conspicuous as the myopia advances. They are often visible at birth. Tliey indicate progress of the myopia if they are considerable near the crescent, and shade off into the healthy choroid. About the age of forty, the atrophy be- comes more conspicuous, and its boundary more irregular. With the ophthalmoscope we first look for the optic disc and for the tunics immediately adjoining it; then for the region of the yellow spot, and lastly inspect the more peripheral parts of the choroid, the optic disc, and the tunics im- mediately surrounding it. Nearly in all myopic eyes we find a white figure, which in most cases has a crescentic form (and is termed "the crescent") adjoining the portion of the margin of the optic disc which lies next the yellow spot. When examining the in- verted image we of course see the crescent on the (inner) nasal side of the optic disc. The convex aide of *• the crescent" is directed towar-ds the region of the yellow spot The crescent varies in size. The rule is that it is the broader, i.e. its axis the longer, the higher the degree of myopia. When extending all round the optic disc, or more in some directions, it loses the crescentic shape and changes into an irregular white figure which, however, in ail aises is broadest towards the region of the yellow spot. In high degrees of myopia it may reach to, or even pass beyond, this spot. Its white colour is caused by the sclerotic shining thn.ugli the atrophic choroid. The more clearly the white sclerotic is visible, the higher is the degree of atrophy. The colour ol the crescent may be varied by blood in the ves- sels of tiie choroid or by portions of choroidal pigment. Minuie examination of the transparent atrophic portion of the choroid (of '"the crescent") shous that it is thinnest whiiv it joins the optic disc, and that though atrophic (deprived of its pigment and capillaries), it can be traced up to the margin of the disc. Traces of the walls of the larger blood-vessels are frequently found in it. The term stapliyloma posticuin id applied to the thinned portion of the tunics if it project towards the orbit beyond the general curvature of the eyeball. The boundary of the crescent, if sharply defined bv the natural colour of the choroid, indicates that the myopia is not, or but slighily, progressing. 1.011 Atrophic changes in the part of the choroid adjoining the crescent are observed in increasing myopia. These atrophic changes iire, in fair persons, a light red c-olonr of the choroid, which is most marked along the crescent, and does not entirely mark the larger cJioroidal vessels. These vessels stand fartlier apart than in the healthy choroid. In persons with strongly pigmen- ted choroids ("in dark persons") the pigment spots along the crescent are particularly well marked. On minute examination of the atrophic parts, we find (1) alterations in the stellate pigment cells of the choroid. The cells become paler, even sooner than the granules of the hexagonal cells ; e.g. frooi a deep brown they change into a pale yellow colour, and finally disappear. The pigment molecules dis- appear before the cells. The changes of atrophy \n the choroid are most advanced where the thin- ning of the tunics is most considerable. The walls of the hexagonal cells disappear ; their pig- ment granules are scattered about as groups of brown or black spots, or as solitary browa granules. Alleratioiis in ike Llood-vessels of ike ckoroid.— The large veins near the atrophic parts are filled with blood and broad. They do not stand so wide apart as those in the more atrophic and dis- tended portions. An uniform red colour of the choroid round the atrophic parts, compared witk .that of less distended and more distant portions, is a sign of hyperamia of the choroid, which often precedes atrophy. 77ie alteralious of the optic disc.—The xiptic disc, like the adjoining distended tunics, is pushed backwards and displaced towards the inner wall ot the orbit. Its position is altered. In the healthy eye, the tunics are thickest round the optic nerve ('-round the optic disc ■"). The attachments of the nerve to the tunics is particu- larly strong. In the myopic eye, the tunics, espe- cially at the outer marRin of the optic disc (and in high degrees of myopia, all round the nerve) are abnormally thin. A fibrous sheath surrounds the yptic nerve in the orbit. On reaching the sclerotic. It becomes firmly attached to the latter. Its fibres mix with those of the sclerotic. This sheath is separated from the optic nerve, or, properlv speak- ing, from the fi rous tissue which immediately surrounds the nerve fibres, by loose connective tissue. Those fibres of the fibrous tissue which iiiimediately surround the optic nerve-fibres and which he nearest the tunics, are attached to and pass into the choroid and into the upper margin of the sclerotic aperture. The tunics, as well as the librous tissue of the optic nerve joining them become distended at this spot; and it is here, and especially on the side next the yellow spot, that the distension and thinning become apparent in the choroid as " crescentic atrophy." greater tlie distension, the more does'the optic nerve recede from the distended margin of the sclero- choroidal aperture. The sheatli of the optic nerve IS connected loosely with the nerve, but firmly with the sclerotic by connective tissue. The more the portion of librous tissue which connects the disc with the choroid and sclerotic becomes distended, the more does the optic disc recodu and the larger becomes the space (crescent) bi- tween the disc and the tunics'. The loose con- ;! r 2