877 UTERUS, INVERSION OF. hopelessly depressed, it has caused contraction as well. If uterine action be present, especially if the cervix and os are constvinging the inverted part, the difficulty is greater, and it is no longer judicious to conuuence by pushing in the fundus. As Dr. McClintock (Diseases of Women, 10G3) has well shown, to do this is to double the inflexion of the uterine walls, and thus to double the thickness of tlie mass that has to pass through the os. He ad- vocates the method practised by Montgomery, which consists in regarding the inversion as a hernia, and in replacing that part first which came dna-n last. The tumor must be grasped in its circumference near the constricting os, firmly com- pressing it towards the centre, and at the same time pushing it upwards, forwards, and to one side. The pressure must be steadily kept up, as it is sustained pressure that wears out the resistance of the OS. After a time the os is felt to relax; the part nearest is pushed through; and then, gene- rally suddenly, the body and fundus spring through. Two things facilitate this operation: chloroform and a semi-prone position of the patient. If the opportunity of reducing within a few hours or days be lost, the difficulty increases through adviincing involution of the uterus and contraction of the os. Still the same manipulation may be attempted. We must act stedfastly on the faith that pressure sufficiently long kept up upon the os uteri will cause it to yield. It is really a question of time—too long a time, indeed, for the hand of the surgeon to work—but not for other mechanical appliances. Dr. Tyler Smith is entitled to the credit of proving this point by suc- cess. (Med. Chir. Trans. 1858.) In a case of in- version of twelve years' standing, he effected reduc- tion by maintaining pressure upon the tumor, and then upon the os, bj' an air-pessary during several days. Pridgen Teale {Med. Times ^ G. 1859) reduced an inversion of six months by the air-pessary in three days. Dr. C. "West {Med. Times 4' G. 1859) by similar means reduced an inversion of a year's standing. Dr. Bockenthal (^Moyialsschr. f. Gehiirtsk. ]'(j60) succeeded in six days in reducing an inversion which had lasted six years. Mr. James Hakes {Liverpool Med. and Surg. Reports, 18G8) by same means reduced a chronic inversion in fourteen days. Dr. Schroder. of Bonn {Berliner Uin. Woclienschr. 1868), thus re- duced an inversion of two years. And latterly (18G9), Mr. Lawson Tait, on my suggestion, effected reduction in the same manner. The last ■woman died, but her case was alreailj' desperate. l3orggreve, indeed, had applied the same principle. He used a stem eight inches long, with an egg shaped knob, which he fitted to the inverted fun- dus, and held it in gentle pressure by a T-bandage. In three days the uterus was returned. Dr. Marion Sims relates an interesting instance of the iulluencos of constant pressure. A stem-pessary, with an ex- ternal support, after pressing for some days upon the inverted fundus, was found to be taken up intd the inside of the re-invcrtcd uterus, the os having yielded and allowed both to pass in together. Courty {Maladies de I''Uterus, HKiO") relates a case in which inveisinn had existed ten months. inducing repeated li.cmorrhage and cxtremedebility. He reduced it in the lollDwing maimer:—The uterus Was dragged outside the vulva by Museux's vul- sellum; then the index and middle lingers of the right hand were passed into the rectum, and hooked forward over the neck of the uterus; then the uterus was seized with the left hand and passed back into the vagina, still bidding the neck hooked down; the fundus of the uterus was turned so as to look forwards to the pubis, the neck turned to the sacrum. The fingers in the rectum, separating, rest firmly in the angular sinuses formed by the utero-sacral ligaments; then the thumb and index: of the left hand, pressing on the pedicle of the tumor, gradually increase the depth of the utero- cervical groove. The two hands acting thus in concert, the uterus was reduced without violence in a few minutes. He had failed with the air- pessary; the patient could not bear it. He cites Barrier {Dull, de I'Acad. 1862) as having reduced a case of fif een months' standing, who found a point d\cpptii by pushing the neck of the uterus against the sacrum. Dr. Emmet {Ainer. Journ. of Med. Sc. 1866) succeeded in the following manner:—He passed his hand within the vagina, and whilst the fundus uteri rested in the palm, the five fingers were made to encircle the portion within the cervix, as near as possible to the seat of inversion. Whilst the portion was thus firmly grasped, it was pushed upwards, and the fingers were immediately after- vyards expanded to their utmost. This manipula- tion, with the aid of the other hand over the ab- domen, was persevered in until the fundus had passed within the os uteri. The advance gained was in proportion to the amount of dilatation ac- complished by the spreading of the fingers, thus increasing the transverse diameter of the uterus, and shortening its long diameter. When the re- duction had so far advanced that the fingers could not be passed fully up to the seat of inversion, steady pressure was applied to the fundus by tiie tips joined together, whilst an increased eflbrt was made by the hand outside to roll outtlie parts by sliding the abdominal parietes over the edge of the funnel. The evidence then of experience, as well as of physiological reasoning, is novv so strong that we can rarely be justified in resorting to the ultimate remedy, one full of danger, of amputating the in- verted uterus. One caution must however be pre- sent to tlie mind when attempting reduction. The resistance may be due to adhesions. To force these would be to endanger the patient by lacera- tions or peritonitis. From time to time a method which may be described as the Forcible Taxis has been em- ployed. Of late years a proposition has been made, supported by several distinguished American physicians, to admit this method to a recognised place in the treatment of chronic inversion. The tact that death after rnuture of the uterus or vagni.a has several times been the consequence of forcible taxis should alone be sufficient to discredit the method. No number of successes ought to outweigh failure so deplorable. Forcible re-position lias been attempted either by the hand alone or by aid of a rcpoicssoir—that is, some kind of blunt instrument of wood or ivory. Dcpaul {Gaz. des flop. 1851) used a repnussoir in n case eleven driya after labour. The patient died in n few days i'rom rupture of the uterus. Laceration also occurred in several cases in America. Another proceeding s'nndb before amputation.