338 NECROSIS. it "undergoes during its conversion into ossific matter. It is now .ascertained that the tissues en- gaged in this process are: 1st, the periosteum; 2nd, the medullary structure of the long bones, and the diplije of the flat ones; 3rd, the muscles and other soft parts surrounding the affected bone; 4th, the substance of the bone itself. The periosteum is the chief agent in the reproduction of bone, and alone is sufficient to restore the lost part. The ex- periments of Syme aiid Stanley, illustrative of this fact, have been already alluded to. Flourens {Theorie experimeniale de la formation des Os. 1047) resected portions of the ribs, and found that, when the periosteum was preserved, de- position of bony matter commenced upon that mem. brane at the part farthest removed from the cut ends of the bone, and that it gradually extended to- wards them. Upon one occasion he placed a tube in a hole which was drilled into the medullary cavity of a long bone, and upon a piece of the periosteum which bulged up into the tube, bone was formed. Heine's experiments (Graefe. and WaWier's Journ. Bd. xxiv.) are equally conclusive : he inserted a piece of linen between the periosteum and the femur of a dog, so as completely to separate them, and after the lapse of a few days, an osseous cap- sule enveloped the piece of linen, and adhered to the shaft of the bone above and below it, whilst no ossific matter was formed on the surface of the denuded bone. Syme has performed a similar experiment with the same result. (See also Troja. De novorum Ossium regen. E,rperiincnta^ 1775, and a monograph by Weding, 1823. Diss de regen. Os- sium.') The beautiful experiments of Oilier, of Lyons {Brit. Med. Journ. 1860), confirm the activity of the periosteum in the reproduction of bone, When portions of it were detached and transplanted into other parts of the same, or even of another animal, new bone was generated. He states that a subperiosteal blastema always exists between this membrane and the bone, and it is in this exudation that the osseous formation takes place. Mr. Jordan has attempted to utilize the well- known osteogenic properties of the periosteum in the treatment of ununited fractures. The regeneration of bone by the medullary tis- sue has been shown by the experiments of Troja and Charnieil upon birds and animals ; and later by Stanley, Wagner, and others. It may be ob- served in the humim subject after amputations, resections, and fractures, in the form of an osseous plug, filling up the medullary canal; also in certain cases of necrosis, where the sequestrum is contained in a cavity formed between the thickened external lamellEe, and the medullary tissue, which has been consolidated by osseous deposit into its cancelli. And again, in the obliteration of the medullary canal by bone, which generally takes place when the external layers have suffered necrosis. That the diplbe also takes part in the formative process may be seen sometimes in the cranial bones, where the reticular arrangement of the diploe has en- tirely disappeared, in consequence of osseous de- posit within its cancelli. Hunter was the first to recognise the share taken by the surrounding soft parts in the repair of bone {Op. oil. vol. i. p. 520") and it is now gene- rally acknowledged. C'harmeil removed portions of bones in pigeons, together with the periosteum and lucdullii, and the restoration was complete, al- though more tedious than when the periosteum was preserved. Stanley destroyed the medullary tissue in the tibia of a dog, after removing the periosteum from it, and in six weeks he found new bone in course of formation round the necrosed shaft. The same author has observed cases of partial re- generation of bone in the human subject, by the soft tissues which surround it; but, to favour this mode of repair, it is necessary that there should be a thick layer of soft parts about the bone, and the inflamma- tory action preliminary to this process not too severe. {Op. cit. p. 108.) The experiments of Syme, Heine, Wagner, &c., show, however, that when the whole thickness of a bone is removed, together with its medulla and periosteum, the reparative process takes place very slowly and imperfectly. In most of their cases the cut ends of the bones were rounded off, and connected only by a dense fibrous cord, in which ossific nodules were occa- sionally found deposited. Wagner denies that the bone itself assists in the formation of new osseous tissue. Rokitansky, on the contrary, attributes to that portion of the old bone which remains healthy after necrosis, the principal share in the reproductive process. MUller does not admit that the periosteum possesses the function of regenerating bone, but considers the new ossific formation is entirely due to an exudation from the inflamed bone, or to minute osseous par- ticles which are detached with the periosteum. Klencke agrees wilh. Rokitansky as to the repara- tive power of sound bone, but to a limited extent only ; and most other observers are of his opinion. As illustrations of repair, by the agency of bone, may be given the union of compound fractures by means of granulations which arise from the surface of the bone ; the partial or complete restoration of bone in the same manner after an exfoliation; the obliteration of the fistuloiis sinuses and cavities in bone after expulsion of the sequestrum; the osseous union which takes place after necrosis between the newly formed shaft of a long bone and the epiphyses; bony ankylosis after disease or resection of the articular ends of a bone; and the healing of ulcers of bone, which is affected, chiefly by layers of granulations, devised from the osseous surface.] If we examine the new bone, at different pe- riods of its development, it appears in the earliest state in the form of a reddish fluid, as has been observed by Duhamel, Fougeroux, Bordenave, Haller, Callisen, and others. If we also attend to the progressive changes which this fluid undergoes, we cannot but believe, that, as in the embryo, an organic and fixed arrangement of parts takes place. IiTdeed, it would be erroneous to consider such fluid destitute of organization and extravasatcd at ran- dom. Thin and little in quantity on its first ap- pearance, its consistence and quantity afterwanls gradually increase (7Vo;«,p. 42.44), so that what at first appeared like a liquid, soon becomes a gela- tinous substance, ill which are developed bony fibn s which incessantly become more and more numerous. These fibres in a short time form little layers and cells, and extend themselves everywhere, so that at len'Hh all which was fluid disappears, and the new bone is produced. ^Vhile young, liowever, it is still spongy and reddish {Troja, p. 44 , but soon becomes denser, harder, and more solid than that which it substitutes, aud it acquires the or- dinary colour of the rest of the bones.