abdomen is attended with severe febrile symptoms; considerable pain and swelling of the boUy ; con- vulsive starlings ; and hiccough and vomiting, with which the patients are generally attacked tlic day after the receipt of the wound. (_SaLaUei\ Alkl. Openitoire, t. i. p. 3-i.) In tlicse cases only general means can be em- ployed—venesection, leeches, fomentations, low diet, perfect rest, anodyne, &c. All solid food must be strictly prohiiiited. If pressure can be borne without inconvenience, as is sometimes the case in the early stage, the close state of the viscera may be increased by the application of a bandage round the body. If the symptoms are not speedily assuaged, the indammation spreads over the whole cavity of tlie abdomen, gangrenous mischief takes place, and the patients die before the end of the second or third day. 3_ ]jiJg_—Bile, on account of its great fluidity, is more apt to be widely extiavasated in the abdo- men than either blood or the contents of the stomach and intestines. However, on account of the small size of the gall-bladder, and its deep-guarded situation, between the concave surface of the liver and upper part of the transverse arch of the colon, wounds of it are uncommon. Sabatier informs us, that he has only been able to find one example on record. This case was communicated to the Royal Society of London, by Dr. Stewart (No. 414. p. 341. Abridg.\o\. u. pp. 571, .t72). a wound penetrated the cavity of the abdomen, and entered the fundus of the gall-bladder, without doing any material injury to the adjacent parts. The abdomen was immediately distended, as if the patient had been afflicted with the ascites, or tympanitis ; nor did the swelling either increase or diminish till the patient's death, which happened in a week. Though there was a great deal of tension, there was no rumbling noise in the abdomen. No stools, and very little urine were discharged, notwith- standing purgntives and clysters, and a good deal of liquid nourishment were given. Anodynes failed to procure one instant of sound sleep, and the patient was incessantly in a most restless state. There was no appearance of fever, and the pulse was always natural till the last day of the patient's life, when it became intermittent. After death, the intestines were found much distended, the gall-bladder quite empty, and a large quantity of bile extravasated. Sabatier had an opportunity of noticing the symptoms of an extravasation of bile, in conse- quence of a wound of the gall-bladder. The patient's abdomen swelled very quickly ; his re- spiration became difficult, and he soon afterwards complained of tension, and pain in the right hy- pochondrium. His pulse was small, frequent, and contracted ; his extremities were cold, and his countenance very pale. The bleedings, which were practised the first daj', gave him n little relief ; but the tension of the abdomen, and the difficulty of breathing, still continued. A third bleeding threw the patient into the lowest state of weakness, and he vomited up a greenish matter. On the third dav, the lower part of the belly was observed to l)e more prominent, and there was no doubt of an extravasation. Sabatier introduced a trocar, and gave vent to a green blackish iluid, wliicii had no smell, and was pure bile, that had WOUNDS. 1039 escaped from the wound of the gall-bladder. After - the operation, the patient grew weaker and weaker, and died in a few hours. On opening the body, a large quantity of yellow bile was found between tlie peritoneum and intestines ; but it had not in- sinuated itself among the convolutions of the viscera. A thick gluten connected the bowels toget'ier, and they were prodigiously distended. The gall- bladder was shrivelled, and almost empty. To- wards its fundus, there was a wound, about a line and a half long, corresponding to a similar wound in the peritoneum. The wound which had oc- curred at the middle and lower part of the right hypochondrium, between the third and fourth false ribs, had glided from behind forward, and from above downward, between the cartilages of the ribs, until it reached the fundus of the gall- bladder. Sabatier takes notice that the symptoms of the two cases which have just now been related were very similar. Both the patients were affected with an exceedingly tense swelling of the belly, unattended with pain, or bnrborygmus, and they were both obstinately constipated. Their pulse was extremely weak in the latter days of their in- disposition, and they were afflicted with hiccough, nausea, and vomiting. Sabatier seems to think one thing certain, viz., that wounds of the g:ill-bladder, attended with effusion of bile, are absolutely mortal, and that no operation can be ol any avail. [Medccine Op'.ra- liore, t. i. p. 34-37.) A contrary inference, however, may be drawn from a case detailed by Pariosse, in which a bullet had lodged in the gall-bladder two years. (O/nis- cules de CMr. p. 255.) The recovery, published by Mr. Fryer, of Stamford, tends also to prove that every effusion of bile is not unavoidably fatal. A boy, about thirteen years old, received a violent blow "from one of the shafts of a cart, on the region of the liver. The injury was succeeded by pain, frequent vomiting of bilious matter, great sinking, coldness of the extremities, and a weak, small, flut- tering pulse. The belly was fomented, and purg- ing clysters thrown up. On the third day symp- toms of inflammation began, attended with considerable pain about the liver, great tension and soreness of the abdomen, and frequent vomiting. The pulse was quick, small, and weak; the skin hot and dry; the tongue much furred; the urine high-coloured; and tliere was some difficulty of breathing, and great thirst. Eight ounces of blood were taken away, the fomentations con- tinued, and a few grains of calomel given every four h(>urs, until the bowels were properly opened. Afterwards, the eft'ervesciug mixture, with ten drops of laudanum, was exhibited every four hours. On the following day the patient had motions, and was much better; but, as his sickness con- tinued, he was ordered a grain of opium every four hom-s. About a week afterwards, he com- plained of ft great increase of pain, which was aomewliat relieved by a blister. He was now completely jaundiced, and his stools were white, but the tension, pain, and sickness were abated. Ttt-o days afterwards, a fluctuation was per- ceived in the abdomen, which, in another week, became considerably distended with fluid. The patient now did not ccmiplain nf much pain, but appeared to be eink'n^ fast ; a puncture was imide