URINARY ABSCESSES, ETC. 838 tion (jf the stricture should remain uncut. If, therefore, the catheter used (which should not be smaller than No. 10) be obstructed in its passage, or be obviously grasped after it has been passed, we may rely upon it there are a few fibres yet re- quiring division, whicli will occasion future relapse, if they are not incised ; they must, therefore, be so treated at once. If the bleeding is free, as it may be in excep- tional cases, perfect safety is insured by plugging the wound. The catheter being secured in the usual way, a piece of india-rubber tubing is at- tached to it, and one end placed in a vessel. The patient lies on his back in bed, the legs supported by a pillow under each ham, and at the end of fortj'-eight hours the catheter is removed. Two or three days afier a full-sized instrument should be passed and be at once removed ; this may be repeated every three days, and finally be employed once a week or ten days for a consider- able period of time. Subsequently, the patient should continue to pass one at a much longer in- terval, such as every four or six weeks, or there- about. Results of tJte Operation.—A certain amount of danger attends every operation which requires a section of the erectile tissue of the urethra, espe- cially that of the bulbous portion, where it is abun- dant and highly vascular. Whether the incision is from within or from without, it cannot be re- garded as entirely free from risk, this, other things being equal, being generally proportioned to the extent of the divided tissue. The risks are— hemorrhage, constitutional derangement from ab sorption of urine, and pyfemia ; probably all, but particularly the two latter, are more likely to be encountered in feeble and unhealthy subjects than in those who are comparatively sound. Hajmorrhage may occur at the time of the ope ration ; it is rarely considerable ; but if it be so, the ligature of any artery obviously divided ; or i it issues generally from the cut surfaces, close plugging of the wound from the bottom with fine strips of lint, and the application of a pad in the perineum over this, will arrest it. If it is merely oozing, but continuous and obstinate, a bladder o ice, and cold water dressing to the wound, suffice without the plug. Constitutional symptoms of a severe kind some- times show themselves. These arise probably from the absorption of a very small quantity o urine, and consist of severe rigors, vomiting, mus cular pains of a very acute character in the head back, and often in the shoulders and legs, with depression of the pulse ; the rigors are succeeded by a hot skin, great thirst, and restlessness; and these by sweating, which is more or less profuse. The patient remains weak, but in thirty-six to forty-eight hours gradually returns to his natural state. I have never seen a patient succumb after such an attack. The application of local heat an the administration of stimulants are desirable dur- ing the first stage; abundant and refreshing drinks should be given during the second ; and mild nu triment as soon as the stomach is able to bear it. Pyajmia, and infiammation of the kidneys supervening on pre-existing organic disease those organs, but most frequently the former, ar the causes of the fatal result wlien it does happen Tlie mortality, deduced from past experience howeviT, small, especially when the extremely bail condition of many of the patients (JJ)erated upon is taken into the account. In 219 cases carefully collected by myself, from numerous operators, the eaths from all causes amounted to barely over six per cent. Concluding here the subject of urethral stricture and its treatment, it may be remarked that varied means are to be employed in the different circuni- tances in which the disease is presented to the surgeon ; and that it is undesirable to limit our resources to the employment of any single method. Of one thing I am convinced by large and increas- ng experienceof this subject, that the more familiar we become with it in all its forms the less neces- sity appears for what may be termed operative measures in contradistinction to carefully managed dilatation.] Henry Thompson. John Hunter, On tbe Venereal Disease, 2d ed. ^ir Everard Bovne, Practical Obs. on the Treatment of Strictures in the Urethra and CEsophagus, 3 vols.Svo. Lend. Thoinas Whatelxj, An improved Method of treatine: Strictures in the Urethra, ed. 2, 1806. U. W. Andrews, Obs. on the Application of Lunar Caustic to Strictures in the Urethra and CEsophagus, 8vo. Loud. 1807. T. Limnore's Practical Obs. on stric- tures, &c. Svo. Lond. 1809. Soevimerring, Abhand- lung iiber die schnell und langsam todtlichen Krankheiten der Harnblase und Harnrohre bey Mannevn im hohen Alter, 4to. Frankf. 1809. Sir Charles Dell, Letters concerning the Diseases of the Urethra, 1810; subsequently republished with addi- tions by Mr. Shaw: also Surgical Reports, Svo. Lond. 1816-18. Treatise on Diseases of the Urethra, 1822. James Wilson, On the Structure and Physiology of the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, and their Diseases, Svo. Lond. 1821. James Arnott, On itv\ctyiT& of the Urethra, Svo. Lond. 1819. Idem, 2d ed. 1840. Ducamp, Traits des R(«tentions d'Urine, &c. Svo. Paris, 1822. Boi/er, Traits des Mai. chir. t. ix. Paris, 1824. ./. Ilowship, On the Urinary Organs, Svo. Lond. 1823. R. A. Stafford, On Strictures of the Urethra, ed. 2. Svo. Lond. 1829. Benjamin Phillips, On the Urethra, its Diseases, &c. Svo. Lond. 1832. G. .7. Guthrie, On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and Urethra, Svo. Lond. 3d ed. 1843. Brodie, Lectures on Diseases of Urinary Or- gans, ed. 4. Lond. 1849. Z/jf/oH, Practical Sursrery, ed. 4. Lond. 1846. [Briggs, Treatment of Stricture, Lond. 1845. Rynd, Path, and Pract. Obs. Lond. 1849. Amussat, Legons sur les Retentions, Pans, 1839- Cii'iale, etroto- Bupuiitren, Le?ons orales, Pans, 1833. Cii'!( Trait6 pratique, Paris, 1837. Cu'ia/e, De I'Uretrc mie, Paris, 1849. Mcrcicr, Anat. path, et th^rap. sur les Maladies des organes urinaires et g^nitaux, Paris 1841. Ixrov d'Etiollis, Des IWtr^cissemeiits, Paris, 1845. Guerin, Mdm. de hi Snc. de Chir., Pans, 1854. iJewAart/, Traits pratique, Paris, 1853. Symc, Strictures of the Urethra, Kdin. 1S49. 2d ed. IS55. Hancock, Strictures of the Urethra, Lond. 18o2. Ellis. MKl.-Chir. Trans, vol. 39. H Thompson, Stricture and Perineal Fistula, 3d ed. Loud. isb9. // Smith, QM Stricture, 1857. TTai/c, on Stricture, 4th ed. Lond. 1859. Holt, Instantaneous treatment, Lond. 18G1.] URINARY ABSCESSES, URINARY EXTRAVASATION, and URINARY FIS- TULyE.—[As a result of severe, long-continued inflannnation of the urethra, whatever the cause, abscess may be formed in its vicinity. But by far the most common cause is a narrow stricture of the urethra. When much irritation exists in the canal behind the stricture, when proper treatment h.as been neglected, or where violence has been used, abscess not uncommnnly takes place. It is by no means alwavs, it is probably even rarel\-, produced by some slight extravasation of urme beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra ; but occurs as a result of inllammation in. the cellular tissue. 1 ho most common situation is the perineum, alter this