675 self and by B.tteman as independent entities, as thoiiijh they had no mutual relation with each other, and are airanged as follows:—I. Papula; ; 2. Squainre; 3. Exanthemata; 4. Bulla;; 5. Pus- tu'te; 6. Ve^icula;; 7. Tubeicula; 8. Maculse. But these groups have in reality an important relation with each other, and that relation is made apparent when they are amanged somewhat dif- ferentlj-, for example :—1. Exanthemata; 2. Pa- pul.-B; 3. VesiciiliB ; 4. BuIIeb; 5. Pustulae; 6. Sqnainas ; 7. Tubercula; 8. Maculie. And it is according to the latter arrangement, which rests on a physiological as well as on a pathological basis, that we shall proceed to examine them. 1. EjCLinthemata, derived from i^avQuv, to blossom, is intended to signify those appearances of the skin which are known as an efflorescence pr rash (rush). They are " superficial red patches variously figured, and diffused irregularly over the body, leaving interstices of a natural colour and terminating," for the most part, " in cuticular exfoliation." In other words, exanthemata are characterised by vascular congestion of the skin, the consequence of inflammation, and unattended with elevation of the surface. The diseases in- cluded by Willan under this head, are—Rubeola, Scarlatina, Urticaria, Roseola, Purpura, and Ery- thema. In Rubeola or Measles the redness pre- sents a raspberry hue, and is disposed in small patches which correspond with the natural healthy mottling of the skin; in Scarlatina, the redness is brighter, has a vermilion tint, the skin is less mottled and the redness more difiused; that is, distributed in large patches, or is uniform; in Urticaria, the redness has a bright vermilion tint, occurs in patches of irregular size, is studded over with whitish elevations termed icheals; or, in its more chronic forms, the redness is dull, and the wheals of a mingled red and white colour; in Roseola, the redness is a dull crimson or rose colour, and the form of the patches either mot- tled like rubeola, or circular, or annular; in Pur- pura, the redness is due, not to vascular congestion of the skin, but to the extravasation of blood into the tissues of the skin, and the tint of redness corresponds with the known hues of blood eff"used from its vess.'ls; being, at first, brightly red, and becoming, after a time, crimson, then purple, and then black, fading as it disappears into brownish and yellowish stains; the redness of purpura may always be distinguished from the redness of hj-- persemia or vascular congestion, by remaining per- manent under pressure with the finger, whereas, under a similar pressure, in vascular congestion, the redness disappears and the skin becomes white; in Erythema, the redness may be bright or dull: and the term is applicable to every morbid redness of the skin not included in the preceding forms, and obeying the general defini- tion of redness without perceptible, or with but slight and uniform, elevation of surface. 2. PapulcB. Papula (pimple) "a very small and acuminated elevation of the skin, with an inflamed base, and commonly terminating in scurf." The diseases belonging to this group are three in number—namely, Strophulus, Lichen, and Prurigo. Strophulus is a papular or pimply eruption common to infants ; Lichen is an eruption of small pimples common to every period of life from childhood to old age; and Prurigo is more particularly met with in elderly SKIN, DISEASES OF. persons, or in those in whom the ekin has fallen into the wasted condition which is so frequent in advanced life. All these eriiptians are reniaikabla for the pruritus with which they are acconip.inied, and which from its severity has suggested the especial designation, " prurigo." 3. VedculcB. A vesicle is an elevation of the cuti';le of small size, arising upon a more or less inflamed cutis, and distended with serum or lymph. Vesicles are sometimes semiglobular, and some- times conical or acmninated in f<)rm; and their contents, v/hich are at first transparent and colour- less, become milky and sometimes purulent as they advance to maturity. They terminate, by the desiccation of their fluid contents, into a scab or thin crust; or as happens commonly in eczema, in rupture, and concretion of the discharged fluid into spongy crusts of considerable thickness. The diseases comprehended in this group by Willan, are:—Eczema, Miliaria, Herpes, Varicella, Vac- cinia, Rupia and Aphtha. Eczema is the type of vesicular eruptions (so that the term eczematuus eruption may be taken as synonymous with vesi- cular eruption), and is, at the same time, among the most frequent of the diseases of the skin. The vesicles in eczema are very small, rarely distinct, but commonly aggregated, and not un- frequently blended together in clusters so as to form a multilocular and slightly elevated vesicle of considerable extent. Miliaria is an eczema in which the vesicles are somewhat larger than those of true eczema, distinct, filled with a serous fluid, and dispersed over a surface unaltered by inflam- mation. In Herpes the vesicles are of larger size, hemispherical in shape, developed on an inflamed ground of circumscribed extent, distended with lymph which passes through the various stages of transparent, opalescent, yellow and purplish, and terminate in thick brownish or black crusts. Vari- cella or chicken-pox is a semiglobular vesicle of small size, remarkable for its crystal-like transpa- rency, becoming opalescent in the course of a day; it is dispersed over the general surface of the body; appears in successive crops duriufr four or five days ; terminates in thin friable and'brownish crusts; is a disorder of children, and is accompanied with some slight febrile disturbance. Vaccinia is the vesicle cow-pox. Rupia is a venereal ulcer in its vesicular stage, and can only be recognised by its association with other symptoms of constitu- tional syphilis. And, Aphtha is a vesicle of the mucous membrane, usually met with in the mouths of infants, and rarely seen in the vesicular stage, being commonly indicated by a white opacity with thickening and softening, or by abrasion of the epithelium. 4. Bul/a. Bulla, a bubble, bleb, or blister- that is, an elevation of the cuticle, ranging in size from a large pea to a hen's-egg, and distended with serum, is the typical character of this order. There is very little redness surrounding the base of the bulla;, and their contents are colourless or yellowish, sometimes as deep as amber, and some- times tinged with blood. The diseases compre- hended by the order Bulla, are—Erysipelas, Pemphigus, and Pompholyx. The bullic of Ery- sipelas vary in size from that of a split pea to a hazel nut; they are oval or circular in figure, and developed upon a portion of skin which is tumefied and brightly red; moreover, erysipelas is an acute affection,and is accompanied with febrile symptoms