475 PREGNANCY. A brief de- to him by direct physical exploration M-ription of the objective signs of pregnancy is tiierefore all that need be given here. For the first three months the signs are so indistinct that very few men experienced in these investigations would venture to give a decided opinion either in the negative or affirmative. There are, however, appearances which sometimes raise to a high de- gree of probability the presumption of pregnancy. These are: 1st, the presence of a deep-blue or violet injection of the whole vaginal portion of the uterus and vagina, extending to the vulva. In connection with this may be also frequently noticed a peculiar brain-like corrugation of the vaginal mucous membrane. This, Jacquemin's test, will acquire increased value if the vaginal portion of the uterus be softened, pulpy to the touch ; if the bulk and weight of the uterus be found increased; if the breasts have become fuller, their arenlffi dark, the glandular follicles enlarged. One sign alone will not inspire confidence, but the accumu- lation of several will rarely depend upon any other cause than pregnancy. It will, nevertheless, be generally discreet to postpone a positive opinion, and postpone, when possible, the decision as to surgical action, until the more marked and abso- lute signs of pregnancy shall be developed. At the end of four months, sometimes earlier, the uterine or placental souffle may commonly be heard. When heard, its evidence is almost conclusive. A souffle is, indeed, heard occasionally in some cases of ovarian tumors or of fibroid growth in the uterus; but as in these cases the abnormal growths will almost certainly manifest their presence by other signs, the possibility that the souffle is dependent ^ upon other causes than preguiincy may be practi- cally disregarded. After the fifteenth week we may expect to hear the fcBtal heart. If a heart-beat or pulsation be heard or felt by the stethoscope applied to the hypogastrium, at the same time that the finger upon the radial artery keeps watch upon the woman's pulse, and the two beats are found to be not synchronous, the case is free from all ambiguity. But not to hear the fcetal heart does not warrant the conclusion that there is no foetus. Even if the foetus be alive, its heart is not always heard. In very stout women it is some- times impossible to obtain clear results from auscul- tatory, or any other mode of examination. Failure, then, to obtain positive evidence cannot justify an unqualified negative opinion. Another sign often available after the fifteenth week is ballottement. If on tapping gently with the finger on the lower segment of the uterus, a sense of a body falling down upon it, as if floating in liquid, be present, we have again almost absolute evidence, and may depend upon it, even when auscultation tells nothing. Less confidence can be placed upon the evidence drawn from the inspection of the abdo- men, and the changes of form and size of the ab- dominal enlargement presumed to arise from the growth of the uterus. The uterus may grow out of the pelvis, and rise into the abdominal cavity under the iniluence of a fibroid tumor in its walls, and this so gradually and so uniformly as to simu- late pregnancy. Indeed a uterus so enlarged has several times been mistaken for ovarian disease, and I have myself seen a surgeon lay open an ab- domen under this error, and then remove a large por- tion of the uterus by the knife. In early pregnancy the uterus sinks by its weight n little lower in the pelvis, compressing and irritating the bladder. But between three and four months, the fundus, grow- ing, rises out of the pelvis. The lumbar vertebra} being connected with the sacrum at an angle, the rising uterus is directed forwards towards the umbilicus, and the os uteri is found high up in- clined backwards near the promontory of the sacrum. Generally, the uterus at five months and afterwards holds a slight lateral obliquity, the fun- dus being directed to the right. Space is gained for the growing uterus, mainly by the stretching of the abdominal walls, so that there is rarely any injuriouspressure upon the great vessels, intestines, liver, or stomach, and the action of the diaphragm is not materially impeded. At the end of preg- nancy, the whole of the fore part of the abdomen is occupied by the uterus, which lies immediately be- hind the anterior wall of the abdomen. This position of the uterus, and the mode in which the organ grows from below upwards and forwards, furnish the best means of distinguishing pregnancy from ovarian cystic tumors and ascites. In pregnancy the intestines are pushed backwards and upwards almost equally on both sides. Per- cussion therefore will yield a dull sound in front from the pelvis upwards to the level of the fundus, and a clear sound in the loins between the crests of the ilia and the false ribs on aiilier side. In the case of ovarian cystic tumors, there is this differ- ence; the tumor begins on one side, and enlarging, not upwards only, but in its equatorial and lower zones also, spreads across from the site of origin, pushing the intestines over to the opposite side. Percussion will yield dull sound in front according to the extent of the tumors, and there will also be dulness in the side and behind, between the crest of the ilium and the false ribs of the side where the tumor began, whilst on the opposite side, where the intestines are driven to, there will be clear resonance. In the case of ascites, the fluid does not, except in some cases of plastic eifusions and adhesions, force the intestines backwards or to one side. They tend to float forwards when the patient lies supine. Resonance, therefore, is found in front. Ovarian dropsy, again, has in addition its peculiar charac- ters, as fluctuation, if one cyst be largely developed and holds much fluid ; but sometimes ovarian tumors are solid and irregular in form; hard por- tions may project in such a manner as to simulate the sensation conveyed by foetal limbs, and this so closely that very skilled practitioners have been deceived. In the case of the pregnant uterus con- taining a living child, the movements of the fojtus may often be felt, and, more certain still, one may feel the peristaltic movements of the uterus itself by extending the hands over its sur- face. But however clear may be the means of distinguishing between pregnancy, ovarian tumor, and ascites, when each exists alone, it is very dif- ferent when pregnancy is complicated with ovarian tumor, or ovarian tumor with ascites. The signs may enable us to make out readily the presence of one element; the pregnancy, or the ovarian tumor, or the ascites, but the other may be so masked that it may be easily overlooked. Abnormal forms of pregnancy also are apt to lead astray. For informa- tion on this point reference is made to the articles CiTJSARiAN Skction and OvAniOToMY. It must not be hastily concluded, because an abdominal tumor has existed for more than nine months, that it is not due to pregnancy. It may