534 RECTUM, DISEASES OF. is increased by ulceration, so tliat a hirgc quantity of fasces may be passed by that canal. In the male sex, ulceration will frequently make a com- munication between the rectum and bladder, or the rectum and urethra, and then the patient voids, not only wind, but fieces with his urine. Spasm may be induced in the urethra, and hence the patient is liable to a retention of urine.'' At length the patient dies, worn out by great suffering. In some cases, the morbid growth completely ob- structs the passage of the fajces, which accumulate above it, and symptoms, somewhat resembling those of strangulated hernia, are produced, and with which the patient sinks; or the bowel may ulcerate above the obstruction, and the faeces escape into the cavity of the peritoneum, and then death takes place from peritonitis. (Sir B. Brodie, in Lo7id. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi. p. 237.) Cruveilhier records the particulars of an interesting case, in which numerous cherry-stones were stopped by a circular medullar)' cancerous tumor of the colon, and death took place from peritonitis, in con- sequence of the passage of three of them by an ulcerated opening into the cavity of the peritoneum. (See Anat. Pathol, t. ii. pi. vi. livre 26.) According to Cruveilhier, cancer of the rectum may occur at any point of it, and the disease assume every possible form of cancerous degeneration. The diseased mass is sometimes quite indurated like sciri'hiis; and in other instances, softer, like medullary cancer. The two may be blended to- gether, though for the most part a primary disease; it is in women often a mere extension of cancer of the uterus, or rather of the vagina. Cruveilhier has seen several women in the Salpetriere, in whom, while the uterus was perfectly healthy, cancer was confined to those parts of the parietes of the rectum and vagina which rested against one another, and it was impossible to decide whether the disease had commenced in the one or the other of these passages. He never met but with one in- stance in a man where cancer originated simulta- neously in the rectum and bladder. He considers the obstacle to the evacuation of the faeces as the most serious effect of cancer of the rectum, and he proves that obstruction may proceed so far as even to confine the gas completely within the bowels, and occasion from this cause the rupture of them. A cancerous disease of the rectum, beyond the reach of the finger in the early stage, may after- wards be forced lower down by the accumulation of faeces above it, so as to admit of being touched. The same thing happens when the patient strains. Cruveilhier saw one case in which the disease could be touched with the finger, though it was five or six inches from the anus. Amongst other important remarks made by this eminent pathologist, I find a statement, that cancer of the rectum is mostly a local disease {le plus hahituellement exempt de toute infection cancereuse); an observation bearing upon the question, whether amputation of part of the rectum is ever an advisable proceeding. [Rokitansky gives the following description of the various forms of cancerous disease affecting the rectum. 1. Erectile tumors developed in the tissue of the mucous membrane, and infiltrated with me- dullary carcinoma, assuming the shape of broad sessile or pediculated fungi. These are commonly placed at the commencement and posterior surface of the rectum, three or four inches from the orifice, and only exceptionally at or near the sphincter. 2. Annular carcinoma and stricture of the rec- tum. This occurs almost exclusively at the upper portion of the rectum, especially at the point at which the sigmoid flexure terminates in the rec- tum, and which in its normal condition presents a distinct contraction. The strictured pnrt is either unattached, as is most commonly the case, or firmly agglutinated laterally to the promontory; notwith- standing its elevated position it is, as Cruveilhier correctly remarks, pushed down by the feculent accumulations above, which generally precede the occurrence of ileus ; it is therefore easily readied in exploring with the finger. S, Scirrhous degene- ration of the rectum over a large surface, or through- out its entire extent. This primarily affects the submucous cellular tissue, from which it extends through the entire muscular coat to the cellular sheath of the intestine ; the cellular and adipose tissue of the pelvic cavity, to the posterior surface of the vagina, and even to the uterus; or it origi- nally attacks one of the last named tissues, and in- volves the rectum secondaril)'-. The rectum is firmly attached, from being agglutinated in its en- tire extent to the sacrum, or adherent to the vagina, or it appears wedged into the vagina by the sur- rounding morbid growth; its calibre may be va- riously diminished, though it sometimes is unal- tered; its internal surface is uneven, nodulated, and hard, or it is filled with soft fungous bleeding growths; the anus especially, if the morbid pro- duct extends to the sphincter, is patent, everted and varicose ; even the peritoneum appears more or less swollen, protracted, and hardened; and this induration extends to a considerable extent over the nates, in consequence of the condensation of the subcutaneous adipose tissue. {Rokitansky, Pa- thol. Anat., vol. ii. Syd. Soc. Tra?islation, p. 108.) Of the three forms of cancerous disease de- scribed by Rokitansky, the first is of rare occur- rence, the second is more frequent, but the third is decidedly that most commonly seen. Ordina- rily the whole or the greater part of the circumfer- ence of the bowel is affected, producing a concen- tric obstruction more or less complete ; but some- times an isolated tumor is observed. The character of the disease, as ascertainable by examination, is often greatly altered during its progress. In a case seen by the writer, a tiunor the size of an orange was discovered springing from the anterior surface of the rectum, about two inches from the anus. This not only greatly interfered with the passage of the fseces, but by its pressure caused retention of urine, which necessitated the employment of the catheter. Two months later this tumor had entirely disap- peared by ulceration, and the obstruction of both passages was removed. Later still the ulceration extended into the bladder, and the greater part of the urine was discharged through the rectum. But besides the truly cancerous growths, epithe- lioma of the anus and lower extremity of the rectum is occasionally seen. Epithelial cancer commences usually, if not always, close to the line of junction between skin and mucous membrane, but may spread itself to a greater or less depth into the interior of the rectum. Like epithelial cancer of the lip, or of the prepuce, it originates as a hard warty growth, spreading more or less ra- pidly, and with a tendencv to ulcerate on the sur- face. This form of cancerous disease, wliicli has not been nuich noticed by writers, is well described by Mr Curling, who records several cases lu which