349 NEURALGIA. ill the cnirse of nerves uiDi'e liiible than others to pain. These are—1. The point where the nerve emerges from the long cannl through which it passes ; 2. Where it traverses the muscle to ramify in the skin ; 3. The point where the ter- minal branches expand in the integument; and 4. The point where a nervous trunk becomes super- ficial in its course. Pressure upon these points will, he believes, during the intervals re-excite a paroxysm of the pain; and thus, if local measures are deemed advisable, they can be had recourse to at the part aifected during the induced pain. The pain of neuralgia must not be confounded with the pain due to inflammation. In true neuralgia there is a morbidly increased amount of sensibility of the nerve, with pain of a sharp, stabbing or plung- ing, or acute nature ; but there is no local or gene- ral inflammation. "When the pain is due to inflammatory action, there is always palpable evidence of the bloodvessels being implicated." {Billing.) There is, moreover, local heat of the part, tenderness distinct from pain, and fullness of the bloodvessels, and usually of the surrounding tissue from exudation. This fullness and tension of the tissues may help to account for the pain, upon the principle of direct pressure and irritation of the nervous filaments, even though they may not themselves partake of the inflammatory condition. It is true in urgent or violent paroxysms of faciiil tic, and sometimes of hemicrania, that swell- ing of the cheek and forehead, with throbbing and fullness of the veins, occasionally happen. I have lately had a case in which this happened on the right side of the face, to such an extent as to pre- vent the patient from keeping her eye open: an atropine injection removed all the pain in the course of half an hour ; and the next day the pain was as severe on the left side of the face, and the swelling now shut this eye up : a second injection again removed the pain and swelling, neither of which re- turned. But the swelling, the heat and tenderness, if due to inflammation, will remain, even although an anodyne might at at once check the pain. Rheuma- tism and gout constantly predispose to neuralgia, which often attacks parts in which eiTusion from the bloodvessels, by exudation, had taken place some time previously ; more heat and swelling will often accompany these attacks than in people not disposed to rheumatism.] Neuralgic affections are more frequently met with in some parts than in others. They are less common " in the viscera, which are supplied by the great sympathetic nerve, than other parts. Nervous pains are more severe and perhaps, on the whole, more common in those parts which receive their nerves from the fifth pair—as the face, the eye, the tongue—than in any other individual part." (See Brodie, On Local Nervous Affections, p. 20.) [77(e Van'elies of Neitralijia..—Neuralgia may be general, nfl'ecting no one spot in particular, or for any length of time, seldom recurring at the same place ; in fact, constantly shifting its loca- lity : the nature of the pain is, however, the same wherever it occurs. Patients say, they have the tic in the leg, or the shoulder, &c. This erratic form, especially if of long standing, is often of most obscure origin. I have observed it more frequently in males than females (if we except erratic hysterical neuralgia), and think it must, in most cases, be referred to some lesion or serious irritation about a nervous centre. The localities more particularly all'ected by neuralgia are ;— 1. The head, face, and neck : tic douloureux. 2. The chest : by intercostal neuralgia, infra- mammary pain, and neuralgia of the breast. 3. The abdominal walls: hy pain, chiefly over the liver, and in the groins. 4. Of the joints : articular neuralgia. 5. Of internal organs : calculous nephralgia; neuralgia of the spine, the testicle, the bladder, and the rectum; the stomach (gastralgia), the in- testines (neuralgic colic), of the heart (angina pectoris), &c. 6. Of the extremities (see Sciatica). 7. Traumatic neuralgia. 1. Neuralgia of llie head and face.—These are the most frequent seats of neuralgia, which may vary greatly in its exact locality, the nature of the pain, the duration of the paroxysm, &c. It may exist in a single spot, or extend over one- half of the scalp; it is then called hemicrania; when directly due to derangement of the stomach, then called sick-headache. Hemicrania is at times exceedingly painful, and may last for weeks with little or no cessation. Otalgia, or ear-ache, is another depressing form of this complaint. In tic douloureux, the pain is of a ticking, shoot- ing, or throbbing character; it is not continual, like many of the other forms of neuralgia, but comes iu paroxysms more or less acute, which start from some one or more points, or neuralgic foci: pres- sure upon these points will usually produce a paroxysm. Tic douloureux, ov Neuralgia faciei, is the Tris- mus dolorificus of Sauvages ; the Faciei morbus nervorum crucians of Dr. S. Fothergill ; and of that order of diseases which Professor Chaussier has so aptly denominated Neuralgies. Diagnosis of Tic Douloureujc.—From rheumatic pain it may be known by the absence of local swell- ing or redness between any paroxysms of pain, by the pain in tic being induced by the least pressiire, and often by talking, by the act of eating or drinking &c., by its temporary violence, and complete cessation until the next attack ; the pain of rheumatism is more continuous, accompanied usually by swelling, and often worse at night. In some cases of severe facial and frontal neuralgia, I have observed not only general tur- gescence of the part, but great tension of the veins—in one case " almost like whipcords," from the severity of the pain ; but relief beincr afforded, the turgescence and the accompanying increase of temperature of the part rapidly sub- side. It is known from the toothache by the compa- rative shortness of the paroxysms ; the quickness of their succession ; the intervals of entire case • the darting of the pain in the track of the parti- cular nerve affected ; the more superficial and lancinating kind of pain ; and tho convulsive twitches which sometimes accompany tho com- plaint. Dr. Copland appears to think that in true neuralgia, ease is caused by pressure both in the internal and extenml forms, and that where pres- sure gives case, or is well borne, the neuralgic character is thereby indicated.This is far from being the case in the majority of tho forms of * Copland's Did. of Med, vol, ii. p. S83.