UTERUS, INVERSION OF. 1371 1836. Ricamirr, Recherclies sur le trnitemcnt du Cancer, et sur I'liistoire g^ni^rale (le cette malailie. Paris, 1829. I'aitly, Maladies de rut^nis, d'api^s les lemons cliiiiques de 71/. Lisfranc. Paris, 1836. C. West, Diseases of Women, 1856. E. Wai/ncr, ])er Geb;irniutler-Krcbs. Leipzig, 1858. Sihlci/, Statistics of Cancer at Middlesex Hospital, " Med. Chir. Trans." 1859. Virchow, Cellular-Pathologic, ISUO. Collin on Cancer. Dublin, 18fi4.] UTERUS, DISPLACEMENTS OF. (See Uteih;s, Invkusion, Prolapsus, Hetiio- flexion of.) UTERUS, HYPERTROPHY OF. (See Utkhus, PnoLAPSus of). UTERUS, INVERSION OF. [May Le de- fined as a dislocation liy which the inner wall of the uterus is tlirust outwards; its cavity disappear- ing; and another cavity forming above, the inner surface of which is the proper external covering of the uterus. This cavity contains a portion of the Fallopian tubes, sometimes the ovaries and portions cf the round ligaments which are dragged in by the fundus uteri. Even convolutions of intestine may fall in. There are degrees of inversion. The most sim- ple division is that proposed by Crosse: First, depression : the fundus or placental site falls in- wards, projecting into the cavity of the uterus. 2nd. Introversion, or Iiiiussusccplion : so great a part of the fundus falls in that it comes within the grasp of the portion of the uterus into which it is received. In the extreme form of tliis degree the fundus reaches to the os uteri, through which it nia}' be felt like an intrn-uterine polypus. 3rd. Perversion : the fundus passes through the os uteri. There are degrees of this. In the extreme form the inver- sion is so complete that even the cervix and os are inverted. The essential conditions for the produc- tion of inversion are on the one hand relaxation of some part, or the whole, of the walls of the uterus, and, on the other, considerable enlargement of its cavity. When the uterus has contracted, its walls are so thick, and the cavity is so reduced, the anterior wall being flattened close in contact with the posterior wall, that inversion cannot take place. Of this any one may convince himself by passing his fingers into the living uterus during active contraction; or by trying to invert a uterus out of the body which has been well contracted. Adhesion of the placenta, growing from the fun- dus, is a frequent cause. This is often united with ppastic narrowing of the lower segment of the uterus. This narrowing will generally prevent complete inversion. In this case, the os uteri maj' not relax until partial inversion lias lasted some time, when, the os yielding, as it always will do under siistained pressure, it permits the tumor formed by the advancing body of the uterus to pass throHuh. Thus the inversion is complete. Anatomical conditions concur in this process. During gestation the ligaments become elongated and offer no great resistance to inversion; and the hollow or cup made by the inverting outer surface of the uterus receives the broad ligaments, and some- times the ovaries. 'The connections of the cervix on the other hand to its ligaments and to tlie bladder and vagina, hinder the inversion of this part for a time. Inversion, then, begins at the fundus or pla- cental site. Tliis part is liable, in consequence of the placental attachment, to paralysis (Rokitan.sky) ; and being thicker than the other parts of tiie utei ine walls, forms u projection into the cavil v. That is the first step. Then if tlie plncenta adhere and be dragged upon by tlie cord from below, or if the diaphragm and abdominal walls act as in a bearing-down effort, the part, alreadj' disposed to fall inwards, is forced further down into the cavity. The external cup-like depression formed by para- lysis of the placental site may be felt by examina- tion through the abdominal walls;and, especially' is this the case if you drag upon the cord, the placenta adhering. When things have gone thus far, further pressure or dragging brings the fundus down upon the cervix and os. If this part be contracted, it may prevent the fundus from coming through; or, the pressure continuing, the os may j'ield and allow it to slip through; or the advancing fundus may find the cervix relaxed and offering no oppo- sition. Indeed, the cervix is very liable to tempo- rary paralysis after labour; and more especially is this the case when, as is not uncommon, it is lacerated. Accordingly it has been observed that some cases have occurred gradually, others sud- denly. This explanatiiin represents the views that are most generally received. The histories of several cases by the late Dr. Samuel Merri- man (Medical Times, 18,51) strongly confirm its correctness. In one case, inversion was caused whilst dragging away adherent placenta. The patient was much exhausted. The re-inversion was very difficult from extreme tenuit}' of the sub- stance of the uterus, and the size of the inverted bag. Dr. M. was obliged to mould the uterus with his fingers, the parietes not possessing the slightest degree of firmness or contractility. In a subse- quent labour this patient had profuse ha;morrhage with adhering placenta; inversion again took place, and speedily proved fatal. Smellie relates a case told him hj Lucas of a woman whose uterus after inversion, having been replaced, was immediately re-inverted. " It was like a piece of tripe." The uterus lias even been inverted after post-mortem delivery under circum- stances which preclude the idea that active con- traction of the organ was an efficient factor. Dr. A. Taylor relates (Gin/s Husp. /I'yj. 18ti4) the following case conmnniicated by Dr. Bedford of Sydnej': A pluripara died undelivered. The body was exhumed. The fretus and placenta were found between the mother's thighs. The uteru.s was inverted and driven out of the pelvis, th(! placenta remaining attached. The uterus had luptured ; this was the cause of death. The uterus was not contracted. There was much gaseous distension of the abdomen. This, the usual cause of post-mortem delivery, had driven down and invcried the flaccid uterus. Iltemor- rhage again is known to be a disposing cause, Vv hoever has had his hand in the cavity of a uterus powerless through loss of blood, who lias felt Its flaccid wall yielding to every pressure, in- ternal or external, like "tripe," or wet brown paper, will understand liow easy it would be for such a uterus to be inverted. Indeed, 1 have often felt partial inversion taking place whilst eiideav(,ur- ing to detach adherent placenta by the fingers. Dr. Inglis contributes (Edin/j. Med. Jonrn. 18()'7) an observation which will be very interest- ing, if confirnu-d by further facts. Ho says that m seven cases of inversion out of nine the child was born with the occiput directed pos-teriorlv. " The rubbing round of the lu'a<l in relating the ociiput forwards, he thinks, leads to the iIlvel•^il;ll.