10 • INFLAMMATION. as the exertion of tlie power of nutrition under extraordinary circumstances and in an unusual degree ; tliat repair, when proceeding favourably, is unattended with unpleasant sensation, or dis- ease ; and that after any injury whatever, the occurrence of heat, pain, swelling, and redness — or, in other words, of every appreciable degree of inflammation, is justly looked upon as a most untoward event, which is sure to delay, if not to frustrate the work of repair. Repair goes on easil}', painlessly, tranquilly, with no increased heat, no sign of "action"—nothing which can be called inflammatory save on hypothesis. Inflam- mation is a process of disturbance, disease, dis- quiet, and disorder. Besides, if the processes of healthy repair are to be called inflammatory, by hypothesis, there ia no reason why every other active process in the animal economy should not receive the same name. If we say that it is inflammation which causes the healing of a wound, or repair of a broken bone, we may consistently say that the periodic excitement of the ovaries, and the secretion of milk, are also inflammatory acts. But to come to the ground of practical con- venience. It is of course easy so to define a given term, that it may be made to include any- thing that we choose. And if any one chooses, he may so define inflammation as to include under it, not only repair, but every action of health and of disease. But to such a course there is this practical objection. Inflammation may be a loose, inclusive term. But the opposite term, antiphlo- gistic, is, unfortunately, in most minds but too terribly rigid and precise. "With the idea of inflammation there is but too apt to go also the idea of excess of action, and excess of power, and the idea that the proper mode of treating it is by " lowering the system," as it is but too commonly understood; that is, by bleeding and starvation. Hence, if any process is considered inflammatory, the surgical instinct is led to the use of debilita- ting measures, which would probably be useless or injurious if inflammation did exist, and are doubly so if it does not. If the processes are kept distinct in idea there will be less risk of the antiphlo- gistic regimen, as it is called, being indiscrimi- nately and injuriously adopted when there is no inflammation to be combated. We propose, then, to treat of inflammation as a disease, and as a deviation from healthy processes of nutrition, whether ordinary or extraordinary. Before dismissing this point of our suliject, we ought to be prepared with an answer to the question,—If inflammation be a disease, what be- comes of the doctrine that it is a salutary process, and one endowed with a multiplicity of uses, as is often taught? such as the property of limiting effusions, which is often ascribed to the adhesive inflammation ; the use of suppuration in getting rid of extraneous substances, and so forth. To this we reply, first, that many of these alleged uses of inflammation are so many figures of speech, or metaphorical manners of statnig plam facts ; and secondly, that, although inflamniation be a disease, and therefore, abstractedly considered, an evil, yet that, under some circumstances, it may be the lesser of two evils. We hear of hcalthj inflammation. But this ex- pression, which is a barbarism and a paradox, really implies comparison ; between inflammation proceed- ing favourably in a tolerably healthy and vigorous person, and that which afi'ects one who is much out of health and exhausted. When we endeavour to define accurately what inflammation is, and what it is not, we find it im- possible to act upon the Hippocratic axiom, cura- tiones morbuni ostcndiint, and to establish an expe- rimental test of inflammation ; to say that any given state is inflammatory if it be subdued bj- "lowering," or antiphlogistic measures, and that any condition which is relieved by stimulants is not genuine inflammation. Under the terra in- flammation are included many states, to which the terms "low," or "languid," may be applied, and which may require good diet and wine, but which are truly inflammatory notwithstanding. A true inflammation may exist, and yet there may be no necessity of depletion, or anything that reduces strength. It is easy to isolate a certain set of. phenomena and consider them as the type of inflammation ; but like every other set of objects and conditions in nature, inflammation is bounded by no abrupt lines, but slides off imperceptibly into processes which are normal, and natmal, or certainly not diseases ;—or else into processes which, if diseased, are not commonly considered inflaramatorj'. In other words, the limits of the term are purely conventional. When a process, then, is called inflammatory, nothing is proved therebj", nor can be inferred as to causes, nor yet as to treatment. Each case or set of cases requires to be analj'sed independently, and treated according to its own conditions. If mere hypereemia, pain, and exudation, con- stituted inflammation, then the menstrual period in most women, and certainly in those subject io dysmenorrhosa, must be called inflammatory. Pain, afflux of blood, shedding of raucous membrane, mixed with exudation, and hemorrhage from dis- tended capillaries, or capillaries shed with the separated membrane, exist in dysmenorrhcea, as they do in dysentery, or in cystitis. " The process by which the ovum is discharged from the ovary," says D. A. Farre, " has been compared by Blumenbach to the spontaneous bursting of an abscess. So many points, indeed, of similarity may be traced between these two pro- cesses, that the term ' inflammation' is employed by some authors in describing the preparatory changes in the Graafian follicle." {A. Farre, art. Uterus, Todd's Ci/clopccdia, 1858.) " In proportion," says Virchow, " as pregnancy advances, as the lymphatic vessels in the uterus dilate, and the interchange of material in the organ increases with the developement of the foetus, the lymphatic glands in the inguinal and lumbtr re- gions become considerably enlarged, and that some- times to such an extent that if we were to find them in a similar state at any other time, wo' sliould regard them as inflamed." (Op. cit. p. 191.) In the same manner, the constitutional symp- toms which go before and with inflammation, have their exact analogies in the condition which precedes menstruation ; there are heaviness, head- ache, languor, and other signs of bloud change; which sipns invariably, as we believe, go before local inflammations of spontaneous or idiopathic origin. Still more clear is this in the case of lactation. Here the blood is evidently loaded, like the sky before a thunder-storm ; the wliole