SKIN, DIS EASES OF. 587 of the nail, alopecia ungualis; in faulty shape, as in the excessively arched and hooked nail, unijuis tuluncus; in supenmmerary nails ; and in abnormal -iiuation, as on tiie cicatrix of the stump of an amputated finger or limb. Abnormal growth of the nails is illustrated in extreme tardiness of increase, so that they seem to be stationary; and in excessive length, as frequently occurs in bed- ridden and neglected persons. Discoloration of naila takes place in some diseases affecting the matrix of the nails, as alplios; then there are the dark spots of ecchymosis, and the small white spots, termed flores unguium. Abnormal texture may present itself as an increase or diminution of the natural thickness of the nail; as an alteration of density, being either too soft, or hard and brittle; or as an unnatural roughness, degeneratio unguium. The roughness of the nail sometimes exiiibits a fibrous condition of the organ, and sometimes it is hollowed on the surface as though it were worm-eaten. Inflammation of the matrix of the nail, resulting in suppuration and ulceration, constitutes onychia. 19. Affections op the Hair-System.— Affections of the hair and hair-follicles compre- hend an extensive group of disorders, some of which are referrible to congenital causes, some to altered nutrition, and others to inflammation. They constitute the genus Trichosis of Mason Good, more properly Trichonosis, and admit of arrangement into three groups:—1. Disorders of the hair; 2. Simple inflammation of the hair- follicles; and 3. Specific inflammation of the fol- licles. 1. 7%e disorders of the hair present us with the phenomena of augmented formation, dimin- ished formation, abnormal direction, and alteration of colour. 2. Simple inflammation of the hair-follicles and its consequences is represented by deficient and altered secretion, morbus pilaris, erythematous inflammation, and suppurative inflammation. 3. Specific hiflammation of the hair-follicles in- cludes a group of diseases which are remarkable for a peculiar state of alteration of the epithelium of the follicles, the hairs and the surrounding epidermis. We have designated this alteration a " granular degeneration " of the epidermic tissues and hair. Others have described the pathological alteration as a fungus plant which they deem para- sitic, and in compliance with this idea have termed these diseases collectively, parasitic affec- tions, associating them with the group of diseases which take their origin in the presence of animal parasites. The parasitic nature of these diseases is not, as yet, conclusively settled; much evidence is wanting to prove that they originate in a plant, the seeds of which, falling on the skin, take root and germinate, and thus act tlie part of an exter- nal cause. We have therefore thought it well to unite them under a title suggestive of their vegetable resemblances, namely, Phytodermata, and to place them as a group in the midst of diseases which like themselves are developed in the liair-foUicles, the hair, and the adjacent epi- dermis and skin. The diseases belonging to this group are five in number, namely :—Favus, tinea tonsurans, sycosis or mentagra, alopecia areata, and phytosis versicolor. The French authors include three out of the number under the generic name df Tinea, for example, tinea favosa, tonsurans, and decalvans. Wilian calls them porrlgo lupinosa, furfurans, and decalvans, and they might all be designated by the common term triclionosis, as follows :—Trichonosis favosa, tonsurans, maxilla- ris, decalvans, and versicolor. It is far from un- likely that trichonosis plica, or plica polonica, may belong to the same group, but our knowledge of this disease does not permit us to say so with confidence. Disorders of the Hair.—Aitgmented for- mation may be a simple abundance of hair in a normal situation, hirsuties, or the production of hair in an abnormal situation, as on pilous nsevi, or moles. Diminished formation includes simple thinning of the hair, defluvium capillorura, or tri- chorrhoea, extending its ravages progressively to the baldness of advanced age, calvities; and Alopecia, whether congenital or accidental. Con- genital alopecia is rare, but accidental alopecia by no means uncommon; in both the skin presents a state of paresis, being pale, thin, and smooth. Abnormal direction of hair is seen in an affection of the eyelids, trichiasis ciliorum, and in a state of clotting or felting of the hair arising from neglect, trichiasis coacta. Alteration of colour manifests itself in three principal forms; firstly, as a change from one tint to another, occurring after an illness or some pathological disturbance of the economy, trichonosis decolor; secondly, as a congenital blanching of a part or the whole of the hair; and, thirdly, as the blanching of age, canities senilis. 2. Simple inf/immation of the hair follicles may be made manifest either as a deficient or altered secretion of the follicles and their appertaining sebiparous glands; a chronic or erythematous in- flammation; or a suppurative inflammation, the kerion of the Greeks. Deficient and altered secre- tion produce several troublesome affections of the scalp, attended with irritation of the skin and concretion of altered sebaceous substance around the mouths of the follicles. One form of this affection, morbus pilaris, commonly met with on the limbs, occasions the imprisonment of the hair within the follicle, a small film of hardened sebaceous matter collects over the mouth of the pore, and the growing hair forms a spiral coil beneath it, producing a pimply elevation. Ery- thema of the hair-follicles is accompanied with heat of the scalp, dryness and scaliness of the skin, more or less itching, and gradual fall of the hair. Suppurative infiammation of the hair-fol- licles, the kerion of the Greeks, is a disorder of the scalp, commonly occurring in j'oung persons, and giving rise to scalled head; it may attack a single follicle (achor), or a group of follicles, form- ing a patch of small size, or one as large as a half- crown piece. The inflamed skin is tumid, vividly red, and studded over with yellow pustules (acho- res), and the dilated apertures of hiiir-tubes. The suppuration reaches the fundus of the fol- licles, the hair is uprooted, and in a short lime the patch is left tender, red, and bald—scalled head. Not unfreqnently subcutaneous abscess, or exuda- tion beneath the epicranium, is produced, and the occipital and mastoid lymphatic glands become inflamed and enlarged. 3. Specific infiammation of the hairfollicles,—. The group of diseases included under this head are the phytodermata, the so-called vegetable para- sitic alfections of the skin. They are five in number, namely:—Trichonosis favosa, or favus;