• sou^ material was counselled by Hippocrates, chiefly with a therapeutic intention. Since his time the sound has been frequently used as an instrument of diagnosis. Harvey relates a case in which he used an iron sound to dilate the uterus. Samuel Cooper, in the early' editions of this Dictionary, describes the use of the probe or sound in distin- guishing polypus, prolapsus, and inversion of the uterus from each other. Its more methodical use, however, dates from lfi26, when M. Lair (Nou- velle Alithode (la Traiiement des Ulceres de VUte- rus, Paris) specially directed attention to the sub- ject. Sir James Simpson {Edinb. Monthly Journ. ISiS—Obsleirio Works, 1855), Kiwisch (Kli- jiische Vortr'dge, 1851), Huguier {Hx,slcrom.tirie cj-c, Paris, 1865), about the same time—1843— gave precision to the instrument and its applica- tions. It extends the faculty of touch beyond the reach of the fingers. Simpson's sound is in most general use. It generally resembles the male bladder sound. It has a rounded knob at the end to avoid injuring the uterus. It is graduated bj' notches, to enable the operator to tell the depth of penetration. At two and a half inches from the knob is a projecting elbow, which marks the nor- mal length of the uterine cavity. The stem tapers towards the end, and is made of soft silver or other flexible metal, so as to admit of its being bent as desired. The uses of the instrument are: 1st, diagnostic; it measures the length; it determines the degree of mobility; it tells the direction or axis of the uterus; it discovers flexions of the organ; it distinguishes the uterus from tumors attached or contiguous to it; it reveals constriction or permeability of the uterine canal. 2nd, thera- peutic, and more doubtful: it may, acting as a lever, restore a flexed or prostrate uterus to its normal position; it may dilate the constricted canal; it may hold the uterus out of the way during operations upon neighbouring parts. The instrument may be applied through the speculum or alone. For most purposes it is better to use it alone. But it is an essential aid to the speculum by drawing the os uteri into the field of vision, and by drawing upon one or other lip to procure a better view of the cavity of the cervix. To use the instrument the patient should lie on her left side, with the nates near the edge of the couch. This position allows the handle to be carried as far backwards or forwards as the case may require. The forefinger of the left hand is then passed up to the os uteri, and serves to guide the point of the sound into the uterus. In the ordinary condition, the body of the uterus being slightly bent upon, the cervix, and the whole organ being set at an obtuse angle into the fundus of the VBgina, and directed a little forwards, it is neces- sary to give the sound a gentle curve to correspond with this flexion and inclination. When intro- duced in such a case the uterus is slightly elevated by the sound, and the fundus supported on the sound may be felt above the pubes by the hand out- side. Commonly slight resistance and pain are ex- perienced at the point of junction of cervix and body of the uterus. If the organ is abnormally bent upon itself or reclined, a corresponding bend nmst be given to the sound, and the point must be duly directed. Commonly, the position of the body of the uterus can be felt by the examining or finding finger; but sometimes what feels like the body of the uterus is in reality a tumor bulging from its wall. In such a case the direc- tion taken by the sound shows where the cavity of the uterus proper really is, and puts the tumor in distinct evidence. The sound is also the best porte-caustique. The knob, dipped in fused nitrate of silver, receives a coating, which can be carried, if necessary, into the cervix, or even to the fundus uteri. The dangers attending the 'use of the sound are, if roughly handled, metritis, great pain, and, above all, the risk of procuring abor- tion. Hence it is necessary to ascertain before- hand if pregnancy exist. It should not be used if metritis or peli-uterine inflammation be present, nor during or near a menstrual epoch. Dessaut relates {Acad, de Mededne, 1854) fatal results: one by Dr. De Mnssy; one by Huguier, who un- wittingly induced abortion at two and a half months, which was followed by death. Aran re- lates a case ending fatally through the use of the sound to restore a retroverted uterus which was bound by adhebions.] In some cases a gum-elastic bougie will answer the purpose of a rigid sound, and is safer.] Robert Barnes. SOUNDING. The operation of introducing an instrument for detecting stone in the bladder. In the male, sounds are generally introduced much in the same way as catheters, either with the con- cavity towards the abdomen, or the convexity; in which last method it is necessary, as soon as the beak of the sound has arrived in the perineum, to bring the handle of the instrument downward by a semicircular movement to the right, while the other end is kept as much fixed as possible. This is what the French terra the coup or tour de mailre; a plan less often followed at the present day than formerly, because, except in very corpulent sub- jects, it has no particular recommendation ; and, even in such individuals, the inconvenience of the protuberant hypogastric region may be avoided, by inclining the handle in the first stage of the opera- tion towards the patient's left groin. The instrument having been introduced, its ex- tremity is to be turned, and moved in every direc- tion, when, if there be a calculus, its presence will usually be indicated by the collision against the beak of the sound. When the symptoms afford strong evidence of the presence of a stone, which cannot be detected in these ways, the patient should be sounded, while his pelvis is raised up, and his chest depressed. He should also be sounded both in the full and empty state of the bladder, and both in the erect and recumbent positions, with sounds and catheters of different shapes. Stones have sometimes been found in the blad- der after death, although they could never be dis- covered with a sound while the patient was alive, suffering all the symptoms of the complaint. The celebrated French surgeon La Peyronie was thus circumstanced: he was so fully convinced of there being a stone in his bladder, notwithstanding nei- ther he, nor any of his friends, could feel it with a sound, that, on his death-bed, he gave directions for ascertaining the fact. Hence, when the usual symptoms of a stone in the bladder continue, pa- tients should be searched several times, before a positive opinion is delivered respecting the natiu-e of the disease. When, during the operation of sounding, all the urine has escaped from the blad- der, the inner surface of this viscus comes into con-