IMPOTENCE, and I am quite certain that excessive smokers, if very young, never acquire, and if older, rapidly lose any keen desire for connection. The pleasures of the table so monopolise others again, that they are indifferent to all other indulgences. It is, indeed, often difficult in those cases to say whether the sexual organisation was originally weak, whether the other tastes have overpowered, or whether the individual has not early in life abused, his generative functions. Again, among the married we find men taking a dislike or even a disgust to their wives, and as a consequence there is an entire want of desire. A first failure will sometimes so annihilate men's sexual feelings, that they are never able or anxious to attempt connection a second time. In many cases this arises from mere amour-propre, as they succeed with other women. Again, early excesses in married life will, in a certain number of cases, produce occasionally a temporary impotency late in l_ife._ Want of sympathy, or want of feeling, again, is not an infrequent cause of apathy, cold- ness, indifference, ov frigiditi on the part of the husband. Lastly, there are cases of amiable men who carry their consideration for the women they love to such an extent that they render themselves practically impotent for very dread of inflicting pam. A singulariy agreeable and gentlemanly, but very mild looking man, thus described his case to the writer of this article. He said that he had been lately married, and had not succeeded m performing his marital duties. Ordinary treat- ment was adopted, and he got better, but still the act was not satisfactorily completed; and he said enough to induce the belief that the failure was not to be attributed to him alone. The lady was found to be one of those pretty, pleasing, but ex- cessively nervous and excitable young women, to be met with from time to time, and in whom the least approach of anything towards the generative organs creates excessive alai-m in consequence of their inordinate sensibility, At first the mere ap- plication of cold water could not be borne, but after some time, and a good deal of careful manage- ment, an astringent lotion could be used, and when the morbid excitability was somewhat reduced, the hymen was found not only entire, but very tough, presenting the appearance of the finger of a kid glove on the stretchers. Division of the hymen and dilatation of the vagina at length accustomed the parts to bear contact, and a permanent cure ■was effected. There is reason to believe that such cases as this are much more common than is sup- posed; and cohabitation is not likely to be followed by impregnation when the husband has previously been continent, and his natural disposition renders iiim particulariy unwilling to distress or hurt his wife while she is in a state of unnatural and mor- bid sensitiveness. It is not improbable that di- vorces have taken place before now from some such causes as these, wiien interfering friends have ex- aggerated and envenomed the painful difference between the young couple, easily perceiving its existence, but utteHy ignorant of its cause J^^- AUencc of or deficiency of powar. Tnia im- ^- We now have to speak of those melan- ehoiy cases in which the absence of sexual power is not temporary or casual but permanent. " True n^wlr ^'^y^La^emand, "consists in want of power in connection, not once, but habitually; not only with courtezans, but with those whom we most love—not under unfavourable circumstances but during long periods of time, say five, fifteen' or twenty years, when married to women whose devotion to their husbands has never been questioned. (Vol. ii. p. 242.) That this lamentable state of things truly exists there can be no doubt, and in London those who devote their attention to diseases of the repro- ductive organs, occasionally meet with cases in which there appears to be complete annihilation of all the sexual feelings and actions, and in which the man is reduced to what Roubaud describes as generative syncope; svich instances, however, are rare. Usually it happens, at least in England, that the functional diseases requiring treatment consist in the absence of only one or more of the conditions necessary for coition. But in the East, I am told, the Levantines are often perfectly impotent before they arrive at the age of thirty. If report speaks cor- rectlj--, Hien Fung, the late Emperor of China, was in this condition. The forms that impotence as- sumes are various, though the result is the same in all cases, viz. inability to perfoiin the sexual act. Thus, a man may be entirely impotent whether he has or has not erection attendant on desire. Again, there may be only a partial erection, lasting an insufficient length of time for penetration — or the erection may be so weak, or the emission so quick, as practically to render the man impotent; or a man may be impotent from having no emission at all, or an emission that does not take place until after the time of attempted connection. Causes.—I fear we must come to the conclusion that when there is desire, and merely a want of power, this state of things arises from abuse of the generative organs, aggravated in most instances by alarm, fear of not succeeding, habits of intem- perance, too free a use of tobacco, timidity, or too frequent excitement without gratification. _ The exact way in which these causes produce impotence is not certainly known, but it is most probably by occasioning lesions of the nervous system, and most especially that portion of it which 18 under the influence of the sympathetic nerve or excito-motory system. Non-descent of the testes is in some men a cause ot partial impotence, and it appears almost invari- ably attended by sterility. It is not pretended that every man who has an undescended testicle must necessarily be altogether impotent; for cases are recordea of men whose testes had never descended into the scrotum having had families ; but the writer has met with several instances, one of which will be presently described, where it was believed that entire impotence arose from this cause. It 13 true that, in the elephant, and some other animals, in the cetacere, in birds and reptiles, the testes are constantly found in the abdomen, side by side with the kidneys, lungs, &c. In the greater number of instances, however, the testes, even if free within the abdomen, will not secrete spermatozoa or living animalcules. This subject has been repeatedly examined in Prance and among others M. Goubax, professor of the veterinary school at Alfort, says, "When the testicles remain within the abdomen of the animal they augment very little in size. The substance of the gland although healthy remains soft, as it is in the foetus. The semen, which is contained in B 2