put branches of the third nerve, when on raising the drooping lid with the linger we find divergent strabismus, and the pupil somewhat enlarged and fixed. A slight impairment of the power of raising the upper lid, through clmnges affect- ing the branch of the third nerve, is termed paresis of the levator palpebra; muscle. Ihe skin of the forehead in such cases is thrown into folds when making nn eftort to raise the hd, while the skin of the lid hardly changes its ap- pearance. Treatment.—Here we have to consider the cause of the ptosis. It may be the result (1) of severe or repeated inflammation, leading to hypertrophy and to an increase in the weight of the upper lid ; (2) of protracted intolerance of light with spas- modic closure of the eyelids, producing hypertrophy of the orbicularis muscle, and thus destroying the antagonism between it and the levator palpebrae muscle; (3) of increase of weight of the lid not in aged persons from an abundance of skin, together with weakness of the levator palpebrse muscle. In these cases the action of the levator palpebree muscle is often still further impeded through narrowing of the palpebral aperture. In 1, after all inflammation has ceased ; in 2, after the intolerance of light has subsided ; and in 3,- we can, by the removal with scissors and forceps of some skin and orbicularis muscle, along the margin of the anterior surface of the tarsus, improve the condition of the patient, who for reasons of personal appearance, or to improve the sight, may be desirous to undergo the operation. To ascertain how much of the skin should be removed we pinch up a fold with the fingers or with a broad forceps along and parallel with the margin of the lid, so as to raise that margin above the upper edge of the patient's pupil, while the eye is directed straight out. The patient, while the fold of skin is raised, must be able to close the lids readily without effort. The fold is removed best with scissors. Then a strip of the orbicularis muscle, its width varying from one-fifth to one- quarter of an inch, is dissected away from the tarsus, taking particular care to remove the thick portion attached to the edge of the tarsus. One suture inserted midway between the outer and inner canthus suffices. It is carried through the outer edge of the margin of the eyelid (tarsus) and through the nearest portion of skin. The wound usually heals within a few days. Cold water dressing may be applied. The suture often comes off spontaneously. Acute alterations of nutrition during oedema or inflammation of the eyelids, e.g. in the course of purulent ophthalmia, erysipelas, ophthalmitis, &c., cause the swollen and often immovable upper lid to overlap the lower one, the patient having bnt slight or no power of raising it. In such cases, no treatment need be adopted as long as its cause (the purulent ophthalmia, &c.) has not subsided. Ptosis from paralysis of the third nerve through tumor, syphilitic or rheumatic changes, or abscesses, in other parts, or occurring during congestion or hffimorrhnge into the brain, as a rule, appears suddenly. The general medical treatment of ptosis, if it is the result of paralysis, must be directed against the morbid changes which caused the paralysis,— tumors, syphilitic and rheumatic changes, abscess, intra-cranial congestion or hsemorrhage. IL. :48£) Raising the ej'clid during the day by means of strapping, or with a metal suture, is of some use if the movements of the eyeball are free. An operation, to raise the lid by removal of some of its skin and muscular structure, is not advisable. , s ^, i • , r An operation (Mr. Bowman's), the object of which is to raise the orbicularis muscle and tarsus beneath the skin of the eyelid which previously is separated from the muscle, and thus to diminish the width of the drooping lid, through the medium of a cicatrix-, formed between the displaced portions of the orbicularis muscle and tarsus and the skin, has in few cases proved successful. At first, an incision is made parallel with, and about one-eighth of an inch from, the outer edge of the margin of the eyelid, through the skin, down upon the orbicu- laris muscle. The bleeding and the thinness of the skin make dissection difFicult. The difficulty is much less if during this part of the operation the compressorium forceps is applied. The skin is dissected awav from the orbicularis muscle to the extent of the tarsus, and a little beyond its upper margin. A loop of silk is then passed round some of the bundles of the orbicularis muscle, near the margin of the eyelid, at an equal distance from the outer and inner canthus, and the silk thread carried beneath the skin, and out at the eyebrow, and fixed there. One or two more silk threads may be applied in the same way along the margin of the lid. The effect is, that the tarsus and orbicularis muscle are raised behind the skin, which is thrown in folds, and overlaps the margin of the lid. Cold water dressing is applied frequently, and the patient kept in bed for about a week, the swelling, &c. of the lid has been considerable in several cases. The silk threads are removed about the eighth day, when the displaced muscle and tarsus are supposed to have undergone the necessary adhesion with the skin. For alteration in the position of the cornea by dividing the superior rectus muscle, if the patient has only one useful and freely movable eye ; or by dividing the external and shortening and ad- vancing the sclerotic insertion of the internal rectus muscle if other branches of the third nerve are paralysed, see Strabismus.} C. Bader. See Richter's Anfangsgr. derWundarzn. b. iv. p.488. Svo.3rd edit.GUtt. 1802. J.A. ScAmirf?, in Abhandl.der Konigl. Med. Cliir. Jos. Acad, zu Wien. b. ii. p. 365. 1801. Welter's .Manual, Transl. by Monteath, vol. i. p. 97, &c. 8vo. Glasgow, 1821. G. J. Beer, Lelire von den Au^enlir. b. ii. p. 109, &c. 8vo. Wien, 1817. G. J. Guthrie, Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 41, 8;c.8vo. Lond. 1823. [DewncWjTraitdTMoriqueet Pratique des Maladies des Yeux. ^d. 2. Paris, 1855.] PUNCTURED WOUNDS. (See Wounds.) PUPIL. [Most of the natural and morbid changes of the eye reflect themselves in the state of the pupil; alterations of its size, shape, and colour, are guides in assisting us to form a correct diiignosis and devise a plan of treatment, not only of changes in the iris, but of numerous other ocular and cerebral anomalies. Light thrown upon the healthy retina causes contraction o( the pupil by reflex action of the optic nerve in the brain (corpora quadrigemina) upon the third nerve. Certain terms are in use in reference to the mobility of the pupil. Its movements are normal, or " the pupil acts well," if it responds to nil the