976 VENEREAL DISEASE "In tlie two otlier cases, females, the treatment was given up before there was evidence of im- munity,in consequence of sloughing having recurred in the cicatrices of former sores. One of these patients (Case 12) died from phagedena. The sloughing, however, did not originate in, nor was it propagated to, any of tlie inoculated son-s ; it was confined to the labium, groin, and abdomen. " The otlier (Case 4) suffered in a similar way and to an alarming extent, but gradually recovered. In her, also, the slougliing was confined almost entirely to the genital organs, though one of the neighbouring inoculations was aft'ected to a limited extent. This patient has recently presented herself at the hospital ; she is now in sound health, and in a situation as laundry-miiid. She has liad no return of hi-r venereal symptoms. " It would not be fair, in our opinion, to attribute the untoward result of these two cases to the in- oculation treatment. Both had been originally admitted with sloughing sores, after recovering from which syphilisation was adopted for their secondary disease. Nothing unfavourable occurred in one for three months, in the other for five months ; but when immunity was nearly reached, sloughing commenced in the cicatrices of the old sores, and not in the inoculations. It would probabl)' never have occurred but for the presence of several case.s of phagedena in the wards at that particular time. " Next—as to the re.sult of tl^e treatment in those cases comprising Class 2, in whom mercury liad been previously given ; tliey were five in number. " Three of them (Cases 23, 24, 25) went through the process to its conclusion, in periods respectPvely of four months, five months, and five and a half months, and when discharged from the hospital were apparently free from disease. Of these three one (Case 24) has not since been heard of, the other two have returned with relapses. These were, however, mild in character ; one of the patients speedily recovered under bichloride of mercury, the other got well without any specific treatment. " The remaining two patients died. One ( Case 26) from disease of the liver, supposed during life to be malignant,.but found after death to be amy- loid degeneration. She was inoculated persistently for more than three months with ever}' kind of matter procurable, but with almost uniformly nega- tive results. The cause of death in her case was therefore obviously quite unconnected with the treatment by inoculation. The other (Case 27) died from sloughing of the dura mater and ex- posure of the brain after the separation of a piece of necrosed bone, at a time when sloughing sores were prevalent in the wards. In our opinion the cause of her death also was in no way attributable to the inoculation treatment. " The results obtained in these five cases, then, were very unsatisfactory, but they corroborate Dr. Boeck's experience that the previous administration of mercury interferes not only with the progress of the inoculations, but with their therapeutical action. Out of three who went through it to the end, as many as two were known to have suffered from return of the disease. In the fourth, the inocula- tions, having been almost uniformly negative, must be held to have gone for nothing one way or the oth.!r. In the fifth, it is by no means clear that the improvement which was at one time observed Was due to tlie inoculations, rather than to the good diet and to the iodide of potassium,"whicli she waa taking at the same time. " With regard to the disappearance of the syphi- litic symptoms while the treatment was going on it was remarkable that in nearly all the cases no improvement took place for a considerable time . usually not until the second or third month—while in many of them the symptoms appeared to be aggravated, and fresh outbreaks of eruption were observe! Three patients were attacked with iritis (Cases G, 15, and 18). In the two first the inflammation subsided under simple treatment with atropine and sedatives, and no injnrj' to the eves resulted. In the third the inflammation was more severe, and it was not considered safe to refrain from the use of mercury. This drug was accord- ingly administered in the usual way, and under its influence the iritis rapidly disappeared. " As an auxiliary to the treatment bj' syphili- sation, nitrate of silver was frequently used to the mucous tubercles on the genital organs, and to the similar patches on the mouth or tonsils, as without local treatment the inoculations appeared to exercise only a slight and tardy effect upon them. " Having thus given a brief history of the cases treated, and a summary of the results obtained, the principal questions requiring an answer respect- ing syphilisation appear to us to be— " Whether the process exercises any material or appreciable influence over the evolution and pro- gress of the disease ; or whether the favourable results may not more reasonablj' be attributed to lapse of time, the regular habits and regime of hospital life, and the natural tendency towards recovery which the disease exhibits in persons otherwise healthy? " Whether—if it be admitted that syphilisation has a beneficial influence—that influence is of a specific character, such as Dr. Boeck has claimed for it ; or may it rather be ascribed as it has been by others, solely to the depurative and excretory action of the ulcers ? " We do not pretend, from the limited number of cases which have been under our observation, to speak with authority on these difficult and impor- tant questions.. Our object in this paper is rather to record facts than to express opinions ; but we would, nevertheless, with much deference, submit to the Society the following conclusions as those at which we have ourselves arrived. " We will commence by saying that we are dis- posed to reject the hypothesis that the results are, in any appreciable degree, owing to a depuratoiy or excretory action of the pustules, analogous to what would be obtained by an equal amount of suppurative action artificially induced in any other way. Without denying that a discharge of pns from the cutaneous surface may have some effect in the elimination of a poison from the system, we think, if this explanation were correct, an ameliora- tion in the symptoms would have been noticed at an earlier period of the treatment (as is the case, for instance, when mercury (U' iodide of potassuira are given), whereas the rule has certainly been either that the syphilitic manifestations remained stationary for a considerable time, or that they ex- hibited decided aggravations. And the depurative hypothesis is further disproved by what is observed in the ulcerations which so often accompany the chronic and tertiary forms of the disease ; the