870 UTERUS, CANCER OF. quired after the operation to keep tlie os uteri from closing. Various caustics have been employed : as the chloride of zinc, Vienna p.aste, and otliers. Their use, with the view of destroying the diseased mass, is now, I believe, generally abandoned. But quite recently attempts to effect a radical cure by acting upon the cancerous growth have been made on a somewhat different principle. Bromine in solution has been recommended by Dr. Wynn Williams and Dr. Routh to be applied on pledgets of lint to the diseased surface. In some cases it has appeared to check the disease by destroying the vitality of the cancer-cell. I have used it extensively, and liave acquired the impression that disease is checked by it. And there is no doubt that it is most effective as a deodorant. Dr. Broadbent (1866) recommended acetic acid on the following reasoning: " Cancer owes its malignancy to its characteristic structure To alter its cells is to put an end to their power of dividing and multiplying, and consequently to arrest the growth of the tumor. In acetic acid we have an agent ■which on the microscopic slide rapidly effects im- portant changes in cells of every kind, dissolving the cell-wall and affecting the nucleus. Not coagulating albumen, it may diffuse itself through a tumor, and, reaching every part equally, it may probably produce similar results when the cells are in siltiy He injects equal parts of acetic acid and ■water. I do not know how far this proposal has borne the test of clinical experience. But it seems that a hope of controlling this hitherto intractable disease may be found in its further pursuit. In one case in which I repeated the application several times phlegmasia dolens super- vened ; the patient died. Dr. Skene (Amer. Joum. of Obstetrics, 1869) inserted arrows^ of chloride of zinc into presumed cancerous affection of the cervix uteri ; recovery resulted. The palliative treatment is very important. Con- stitutional remedies may help the patient to bear up against the incessant wear and tear of an ex- hausting disease. Iron will help to counteract the degradation of the blood; quinine or bark to maintain the appetite; but the most useful of all remedies I have found to be cod-liver oil. Nar- cotics become indispensable in the later stages. Coniura, hyoscyamus, belladonna, chloral and, above all,opium, must be resorted to, either in the form of pill or draught, or as suppositories introduced into the rectum or vagina, or by subcutaneous injec- tion. Local remedies tend usefully to counteract some of the bad effects of the disease. Deodorants may very effectually prevent decomposition and offensive odour. The best deodorants are chloride of zinc, carbolic acid, and bromine. These may be applied on pledgets of lint introduced into the vagina, and renewed once or twice a day. By bromine especially the offensive odour may be completely subdued. In some cases I have found the best results from acetate of lead. Wherever cancer has made progress, so as to encroach a little by its mass upon the surrounding organs, some impediment to the functions of the rectum and bladder follows. In the case of the bowels, this impediment entails a retrograde dis- turbance of the function of the entire alimentary canal. Beginning with the rectum, there is di.'li- ciiliy in defecation ; this, in its turn, causes reten- tion of foical matter in the large and small intestines, where it ferments or decomposes, producing dis- tressing flatulence and distension of the abdomen. Constipation alternates with d'arrhnea. Then again digestion is disordered ; and the products of imperfect digestion being absorbed, a condition that may be called cuprminia results. This chain of events is, indeed, common to almost all tumors which press upon the pelvic organs. On the side of the bladder there ensue incontinence, perhaps re- tention, and, when a fistula is established, a con- stant escape, of urine. The ureters may become obstructed; then uriiiEemia will result. This is one mode by which cancer kills. Death maybe the result of the natural course of the disease ; more often of putrid infection, in some cases of cancerous infection. But mostly it is due to some intercurrent complication : as peri- tonitis, phlegmasia dolens, hydronephrosis. The dilatation of the ureters and pelves of the kidnevs becomes the cause of death by the produc- tion of cerebral phenomena, convulsive or comatose. Aran relates a case of this last. The atrophy of the kidney is described by Cruveilhier {Anai. patJiol.) Cancer of the uterus is sometimes unfortunately complicated with pregnancy. This condition ren- ders the cancerous growth more active ; and, since the child must traverse the diseased tissues, labour can only be effected at the expense of dangerous or even fatal violence. Dr. West has collected seventy-four cases of cancer complicating labour. In forty-one death soon followed labour ; thirty- three recovered from the effects of labour. Forty- seven of the children were lost.] Robert Barnes, M.D. Whoever wishes to obtain further information re- specting operations for the removal of the cancerous uterus, should consult Sabatier, Mdd. op^r. t. iii. p. 397. Paris, 1824. Alf. Yelpcau, Nouv. Elem. de M^d. opdr. t. iii. M. Malgaiqne, Man. de Mia. opdr. 12mo. Paris, ed. 2. 1837. J. Ha//H, M^m. sur un Nouveau Pioc^tl^ pour I'Amputation du Col de la Matrice, &c. Paris, 1827. Canella, Cenni dell' Estirpazione della Bocca e del CoUo dell' Utero. Milan, 1821. Ammon, Parallfele der Franzosischen und Deutschen Chir. p. 257, &c. Joerg. Aphorismen, etc. zur WUrdigung zweier von Dr. Hofrath Osian- der in Leipzig unternoramencn Operationen, Leipz. 1820. Stnive, in Hufeland's Journ. b. xvi. s. 3. 1803. Gvtberlat, Siebold's Journ. b. i. s. 2. c. Wenzel, Ueber die Kranklieiten der Uterus, Mainz, 1816. Lanqenhech, Neue Bibliothek, &c. b. i. s. 3. p. 551. Laud Wolf, in Archives gfen. de Med. Janv. 1836, p. 103 : case of amputation of scirrhous uterus in the state of prolapsus, the result fatal, •'^'^'"'"f^' in Revue m^d. D^c. 1825 : removal by I'ffitujf- followed by cure. Also, in Archiv. S^"-,,"^?^ 1829, t. xxi. p. 78. M. Jlou.v, Deux Cas de 1 l-xtiri a- {fon de 1'Ut.^rus suivis de Mort, B.ul'^^'''^. Sciences med. Oct. 1S29. Sautcr, Jyie Extirpation der carcinomatosen Gebarmutter Constanz, 1822: result successful. /S<e6o'rf, «esclire bung einer vollkomraenen Exlirpa ion der f c ' rhosen nicht prolabirten Gebarmutter, I'lankf. 182-t. r" letta, Journ. von Graefe, &c, bd. o, h; 3-. ib.; Chelius, Handb. der Chir. b. n. <lclb-.'82/, and, more especially, the writings I f^' lectures of .U. Lhfranc. Also, -^""'f "'""''f/lif.if;^ Case in which the Uterus, in a sta e «f f^r Ulceration, was successfully removed; and t«o otiier Cases, &c. Loud. Med. Gaz., Aug. John M. Banner, Case of Extirpation of the Uten.. , ib. Oct. 1828. And, above all, ? '"7 the mokes up his mind to attempt the ^xcisvon t»« Uterus, either in a state of Prol»PS"«'°; ."'i^^fSuy circumstances, 1 recommend him ^°J^^^ ^^'^l^l the cases, facts, and rellcctions coi.tan ed n. art. J. p. 376. of the Kdinb. Med. and Surgical Journal lor April, 1830, No. ciii. , . . •„„ t-r Paris. 17V«///<t; Du Cancer de la Matrice, S.c.,iaris,