^30 RHEUMATISM. _ RESOLUTION. The subsidence of inflamma- tion without abscess, ulceration, mortification, &c. Also the dispersion of swellings, indurations, &c. RETENTION OF URINE. See Uiune, Retention of. RETROVEIISIO UTERI. A turning back- ward of the womb. (See Uterus, Rbtiioveu- SIGN OF.) [RHEUMATISM. The Rheumatic Diathesis. Lactic acid is now regarded by some of the most eminent pathologists as the materies morbi of the rheumatic diathesis and paroxj'sm. We have the authority of the late Dr. Prout and also of Dr. Todd in favour of this view. The former detected large quantities in rheumatic cases, especially in the perspiration, and the latter refers to the causes of the disease,mal-assimilation or imperfect primary and secondary digestion, combined with vicissi- tudes of temperature, in support of the theory. Lactic acid (Cg Hj Og + H 0), is a constituent of the juices of the Hesh, and believed to be one of the products of the retrogressive metamorphosis of the gelatinous and albuminous materials in every part of the economy, which, in the condition of health, is oxidated in the blood, and excreted in the form of carbonic acid gas. When procured artificially it is a liquid extremely acid to the taste, and so strong and biting as to be almost in- supportable. It is one of the changes also through which starch and glucose pass in tiieir conversion into carbonic acid and water. In health no appre- ciable quantity of lactic acid is detectable in the urine, and only a minute portion, if any, in the perspiration; but in some diseased states it escapes freely from the skin. As it can be readily formed out of the body from sugar made to ferment in contact with an animal substance, and as it has often been detected in the primse vise, it is held also to be a product of imperfect primary digestion. The skin is the natural emunctory of lactic acid developed in excess, and therefore whenever, from food of bad quality, or from too little or too much food, it occurs in the alimentary canal, and is too copiously absorbed to admit of immediate oxidation in the blood, or when it is produced in excess from nial-assimilation in the secondary processes, the in- fluence of cold when brought to bear on the skin by checking perspiration, must cause it to accumulate as an acrimony in the blood, and by the laws of elec- tive affinity to be directed to particular structures. That lactic acid absorbed into the blood will pro- duce the salient symptoms of rheumatism in ani- mals is shown by Dr. Richardson's experiments. {On the Coagulation of the Blood, 1856, p. 371, el p.) The entire history of rheumatism indicates that the general nutrition of the body is disturbed by a morbific material in the blood ; and the long continuance of agencies that disturb the digestion, and of those that produce defective cutaneous secretion, which at the same time are conducive to a defective metamorphosis of lactic acid in the blood and prevent its excretion by the skin, are the agencies directly concerned in the production of rheumatism. As bearing upon surgery, the rheumatic dia- thesis—in other words, according to the theory be- fore us, a lactic acid condition of the blood—occurs most commonly in children, and persons under the age of thirty, and is- characterised by : a liability t" a febrile state variously developed and indicated a quick pulse, and occasional exacerbations, with heat of skin and more or less profuse perspi- rations having a sour odour. Lactic acid may in all cases be detected in the urine. {Day^s Physiol, Chum., p. 20.) Pains, often of a migratory cha- racter, occur in the joints, not always occasioning swellings or enlargements, but for the most part severe and obstinate, impeding motion, and of frequent recurrence. There are pains also in the muscles or in the course of the tissues of the limbs, not stationary, but now affecting one joint or limb and then another; or there may be attacks of "chronic rheumatism," the shoulders, elbows, or knees being singly or simultaneously affected, or pains chiefly felt in the loins and shoulders up- wards (lumbago), or in the hip shooting from the thigh (sciatica), or in the chest. After a time the joints attacked swell, and fluid is efi"used into their cavities, causing fluctuation; or what is designated a " rheumatic white swelling" may occur, consisting of a tense prominent often colourless swelling, chiefly of the larger joints, with slow and deeply- seated inflammation, and severe and diffused pain originating and chiefly seated in the cartilages and ligaments. The subjects of this condition of the blood are often also aucemic and cachectic, with a tendency to emaciation, their countenances pale, or of a greenish or yellowish hue, the red corpuscles being deficient ; and there is want of appetite, some thirst, indisposition to exertion, and keen sensitiveness to vicissitudes of temperature. To this general or chronic state must be added a liability to attacks of rheumatic fever or acute rheumatism, an irritative fever of a specific cha- racter, from an acrimony or special stimulant in the blood, producing a state of hyperinosis ; its prominent symptoms being a quick, bounding pulse, increased beat, copious clammj' perspira- tions, and a large deposit of litliates in the urine. This fever may precede or supervene upon any of the local affections described, hut whether so or not, it is usually but not always attended with a local affection, consisting of inflammation, with severe pain, chiefly of the fibrous tissues in the neigh- bourhood of the larger joints, often with extensive effusion, and wandering from one joint to another. During an attack of this fever, the pericranium, the dura mater, the pericardium, the endocardium, and sometimes the pleura, the diaphragm, and the fibrous tissues of the eye, are liable to suffer. When the progress of the metamorphosis of the gelatinous and albuminous tissues is arrested at the stage of lactic acid, the lactic acid may act as an acrimony in the tissues themselves and produce irritation, with pain, as in those chronic swellings around joints which are so often met with in rheu- matic subjects. When the arrest takes place in the blood, or the acid is absorbed, either in excess from the tissues or from the alimentar}' canal, the acid becomes saturated b)' the alkalies of the blood, and would destroy the alkalinity of the liquor sanguinis very rapidly if the lactates were not equally ra- pidly converted into carbonates or quickly reuioved. Hence, the oxidising powers of the blood depend- ing upon its alkalinity, the lactic acid has a direct tendency to deteriorate that power, and not only the series of transpositions to which the lactic acid belongs, but the series which leads up to the forma- tion of urea from tlie nitrogenous tissues is inter- rupted, and in the rheumatic paroxysms we have lithate of soda and even lithic acid as deposits. These remarks are applicable to the formation of