TALIPES. 679 The anterior surface of the os calcis is left exposed, to two-ihirds or more ol" its extent, by the lateral disfilaceiiieiit of the cuboid bone. The astntyalus is much more altered than the OS calcis, both in position and form. This bone is completely vertical in position, only a portion (about half) of its superior articular surface, to- getlier witli its posterior border, which is attenu- ated and wedge-like, entering into the composition of the ankle-joint; the anterior half of this surface, extruded from the joint, is exposed on the dorsum of tiie foot. The head of the astragalus is ill-de- fined and much misshapen. Instead of presenting a regularly convex surface directed anteriorly, it has two articular facets at right-angles to each otlier, and divided by an abrupt line or angular ridge : one, the larger, looking directly inwards, and arti- culating with the displaced navicular bone; the other, looking directly downwards, is left exposed by the altered position of the niivicular bone, and is covered only by the elongated portion of the ligament normally passing from the neck of the astragalus, which in this bone ia very ill-defined, to the edge of the navicular bone. The articular surface for the external malleolus is distinct, but that for the inner malleolus ia very indistinct, and sometimes not traceable. The posterior border of the astragalus is attenu- ated and wedge-like, in consequence of its being compressed between the elevated os calcis and the articular surface of the tibia. The navicular bone is altered in position to an extreme degree, but very little in form. Its in- ternal extremity, or tuberosity, is drawn completely under the inner malleolus which rests upon it, thus transmitting to the ground a portion of the weight of tile bod}-; and a flattened articular facet is found on each bone. The general direction of the long axis of the navicular bone is quite vertical, like that of the astragalus, with the bodj' and part of the head of which, in its di.-torted form, it is in direct lateral relation. The long axes of these two bones are, as near as may be, parallel instead of being at right-angles to each other, as in their normal rela- tions. This relative position constanily obtains in all severe cases, and is of the utmost importance to be borne in mind in deciding upon the direction in which mechanical force ia to be employed fur the cure of the del'ormit}'. 77(p cuboid bone devi.ites very considerably in position, and is also a good deal altered in form. It is di.-placed laterally inwards from its articula- tion with the 08 calcis, but retains its articular connexion with the navicular bone, which it fol- lows in its lateral displacement, inwards and up- wards. Aa this bone in its displaced position is somewhat below the level of the other tarsal bones, it must necessarily sustain the greater part of the superincumbent weight; its dorsal hur- face looks directly downwards, and its plantar sur- face looks backwards and upwards. The tendon of the peroneus hmgus has no connexion with the cul)oid bone, but passes obliquely across the oa cal- cis to the sole of the foot. TIte cuneiform bancs retain their normal rela- tloiia to the navicular and cuboid boiiea, and to each other. Tlic metatarsal and pluitangcal bonrs deviate to an extreme degree in their normal directional re- lationa with respect to the leg, but they retain their normal articular relations with the cuneiform and cuboid bones, and with each other. It is the general direction of the anterior portion of the foot which gives the external character to the de- formity. The fourth and fifth metatarsal bones are so displ.iced in the altered relations of the anterior part of the foot to the leg, that their dorsal surfaces look directly downwards, ami rest flatly upon the ground, forming, together with the dorsal surface of the cuboid bone, the most prominent part of the very imperfect and irregular base of support which the club-footed adult possesses. By the weight of the body being thrown upon these bones, they are further displaced backwards so as to narrow, or to produce a contracted condition of, the transverse arch of the foot. Ligaments.—All the ligaments of the foot become adapted, more or less, in their length and direction, to the abnormal relations of the bones, which they serve to cnunect so firmly as to con- stitute the chief obstacles to the cure of the de- formity. At the ankle-joint, if we sppak of all the ligaments collectively, it may be said that an- teriorly, .ind on the outer side towards the front part, the ligaments are extremely elongated; and posteriorly and hiterallv, on both sides, extremely shortened or contracted. The internal lateral, or deltoid ligament, is also contracted in its iinterior portion, and powerfully assists in retaining the navicular bone in contact with the inner mal- leolus. At the tarsal joints, it may be said, generally, that the ligaments on the dorsal aspect are elon- gated, whilst those on the plantar aspect of the foot are shortened to an extreme degree. The plantar fascia is also very much shnrtened, and its tense and contracted condition offers a formid- able obstacle to the restoration of the form of the foot. Muscles.—During the persistence of club-foot, the inuschs of the leg, below knee, destined to reguhite the movements of the loot, are almost entiiely thrown out of action, and, in consequence of tiie inimoieal le conditmn of the aidde-jnint, very defective growth is the result; probably also some sliuctural degeneration tid<es place, but this is certainly not considi'rable, as the njutcles, though small in size in the club-footed leg of the adult, acquire, alter the cure of the deformitv and a lew months' exercise, their natural degree of fiimness and power propoitlonate to their bulk. 'J'endons.—The observations previ(msly made in rel'en nce to the tendons in severe infantile cashes of varus, are, for the most part, ap|ilicable to this deformity in the adult, especially as to their de- viation in direction and altered relations in adap- tation to the deformed position of the foot; but in the adult, all these deviations become more con- firmed. The tendons are also lunger and more slender than in the healthy leg, in consequence of the suuill size of the bellies of the muscles, and the defective nutrition of these limbs generallv. Ill a severe case of adult \arus. the inif.orior tibial tendon, as it crosses the ankle-joint the point we select lor its division—is not onlv dis- p'aced very much to the inner side, but also passes from the inner ni:illeoliis in an oblique direction beliirid rather than in front of this process. And the posterior tibial tendon is lodged in a groove on, rather than behind this process and then passes directly downwards from the inner