PESSARY, tlie models so obtained he constructed pessaries, to which he gives the name " elyt/iroid." They were made of indiarubber, were flattened in front and behind, curved in their long axis to fit the cur- vature of the pelvis; the upper end formed an oval cup; the lower end was terminated right and left by a rounded angle. These instruments caused no Inconvenience to the bladder or rectum, and, taking their support upon the sides of the vagina above the labia majora, they maintained the uterus at its proper elevation. When prolapsus of the uterus is complicated with considerable descent of the anterior vaginal wall, an apparatus after the design of Roser's hysterophore is very iiseful. This consists of an iutra-vaginal part,]which is made to press upwards, and to keep in close apposition to the symphysis, the anterior wall of the vagina, and with it the cervix uteri. But it is of little service where there is great descent of the posterior v.aginal wall. An instrument formed on a similar principle, but I think more simple and eiFectual, has recently been constructed by Mr. Roper, who took for his guide plaster-casts made by him of the vagina. (See Catalogue of the Exhibition of Obstetrical Instru- ments Md by the Obstetrical Society of London, 1866.) One principle that should govern the construction of pessaries is to preserve the muscular power and tonic contractility of the vagina. The balls, which simply act by distending the vagina, entirely con- travene this principle, so that when removed things are worse than before; the vagina is more relaxed, and the tendency to prolapsus is increased. But a properly constructed pessary, which permits and promotes the healthy action of the muscular wall, exerts a truly curative action. One of the most useful forms is one in pretty extensive use in London, and which I have largely employed in hospital and private practice. It has a small cup, with well-rounded edges to receive the cervix uteri, and is prolonged into a curved stem about the thickness of the little finger, adapted to the curva- ture of the pelvis. It is often made of gutta-percha; but, owing probably to a common adulteration of this substance, these soften and lose their shape. The best material is ebonite ; this remains per- fectly unchanged and clean. Attached to the lower or vulvar end of the stem are four elastic bands, two of which are looped before and two behind to a hypogastric belt. When introduced, this pessary will push up and back the cervix uteri; the stem is grasped by the contracting vagina, which is thus aided in performing its natural function in supporting the uterus; it occasions no distress by its bulk, and does not restrain the natuml rising and falling of the uterus, the external elastic bands acting with and aiding the muscular and elastic structures of the vagina and perina3um. So perfect is the action of this pessary in some cases, that the external bands may be dispensed with; the vagina is so restored to power, that it supports the pessary and uterus by itself; and, after a time, the vagina can support the uterus without the pessary: a cure is effected. This con- tractile action of the vagina is further aided by atmospheric pressure, which tends to carry the contents of the pelvis upwards on every expiration. A Greek veterinary surgeon, Apsyrtus, at the end of the twelfth century, appears to have been the first to use the air or dilating-pessary, Having 447 reduced the prolapsed uterus of a mare, he inserted ni the vagma a sheep's or pig's bladder, and then inflated it by means of a reed. , ,,, . ,, Four hundred years later Albucasis applied the same apparatus to a woman. This is the accoimt: "Accipe vesicam ovis et intromitte vesicam totam in vulvam ejus (mulieris), deinde suffla in canulam, donee infletur vesica intra vulvam." (Lib. iii. cap. 29.) The revival in modern times of the air-pessary dates from the publication of a memoir by Dr. Halpin of Cavan (see Dublin Medical Journal, 1840), who used a small bladder furnished with a stop- cock and tube connected with a syringe in cases of retroversion. M. Hervez de Chegoin having to treat a case of retroversion of the womb, where the concavity of the sacrum was very spacious, adapted an india- rubber bottle in such a manner as to fill the hollow of the sacrum, and to push up the body of the uterus. He thinks pessaries ought not to bear upon the os or cervix uteri, continual pressure and chafing upon this part being injurious. In ordinary cases of retroversion and anteversion he used a flat ring-pessary, having one border wider than the other. The wide border was applied posteriorly; it supported the body of the uterus, and the neck came through the opening. The principle of the lever came into operation here. The natural india- rubber bottle—that is, in the form in which caoutchouc is imported—has been long used in England as a pessary. But the thickness and hardness of these bottles must deprive them of all elastic property. Until the process called vulcani- sation, by which a certain proportion of sulphur is incorporated with caoutchouc, was discovered in this country, it was impossible to impart to this material the thinness, lightness, strength, and elasticity requisite to make a good air-pessary. The vulcanised caoutchouc was soon adopted by M. Gariel, a French surgeon, who handled it in a most ingenious manner. His air-pessary has been much used on the Continent. It consists of a bag of the prepared caoutchouc, which, when undis- tended, is very small, and easily introduced into the vagina. It is furnished with a long flexible tube and stopcock, and is inflated after insertion by means of an elastic bladder. In many cases this pessary answers well. It has no perceptible weight; it causes no distress from chafing, and is very easily removed in the flaccid state by opening the stopcock. The shape of the pessary may be adapted to the indications of a given case. In an excellent memoir, Gillebert d'Hericourt explains the action of the air-pessary. By experi- ments and measurements he showed that whilst solid ring and ball-pessaries actually shortened the vagina, the air-pessary elongated it. Thus the main object of carrying the prolapsed uterus upwards was effected. He further showed that the air- pessary might be so shaped and applied as to press in front of the cervix uteri, which will carry the OS backwards and tilt the fundus forwards, restor- ing the natural inclination as well as position of the entire organ. There is, however, often a difficulty in securing the retention of the simple air-bag in the vagina. To remedy this, and to fulfil other indications, I have had a solid curved stem enclosed in an elastic covering admitting of inflation. This instrument can be supported, if necessary', by elastic bands. attached to a hypogastric belt.