TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE, 703 (p. 399) I have described the disease as " a par- testicle, adhesions are contracted between it and the skin; and during the formation of pus so much pressure is exerted upon the fibrous capsule of the testicle and the integuments which confine it, as to determine a slough at the most attenuated part. When this separates, the matter escapes, affording almost instant relief to the excruciating pain which was previously experienced. After the abscess has become emptied, if the opening should not close, as it often does not in scrofulous cases, a portion of the gland tissue will find its waj' through the aperture in the tunica albuginea, and form a pro- trusion of variable size external to the scrotal cavity. When the fibrous coat has given way under the continuous pressure of the pent-up matter, it re- tracts, and in doing so first empties the abscess, and then compresses the swollen gland sufficiently to force some part of it through the opening, and, if the orifice be very large, the whole organ may in time be gradually extruded. The mass so formed is made up chiefiy of the seminal tubes, which can be pulled out like fine threads, but it is increased in size by inflammatory exudation or b}' scrofulous matter. It has a peculiar red granular appearance; and although that part of the testicle still within the scrotum retains its natural sensa- tion, the portion external to the skin is generally quite insensitive, so that a portion may be removed by the scissors without pain. M. Jarjavay, however, states that in some cases, ■when the tumour is very large, although the con- tact of the clothes, &c., may cause no discomfort, yet compression will produce the ordinary testicular sensation, and the weight of the swelling occasion painful tension on the cord. {Arch. gen. de Med. t. XX. 1849.) When a piece of this excrescence is examined under the microscope, the tubuli seminiferi are most distinctly seen, and a number of exudation corpuscles, with, probably, some fibro-plastic ma- terial and scrofulous deposit. There is some secretion of pus from the surface of this granular swelling, and a sinus can gene- rally be found, through which a probe leads into the interior of the scrotum. The tumour is some- what constricted where it passes through the orifice in the tunica albuginea, to be continuous with the rest of the testicular structure which is contained within its capsule.] Sir Benjamin Brodie thus describes this afTec- tion :—" The testicle becomes adherent to the skin at one part, and here the skin inflames and ul- cerates ; and then a fungus, of small size at first, protrudes through the ulcerated opening, but piradually becomes larger afterwards ; and, on the surface of this fungus, you find some of the same kind of yellow substance which is within the testicle itself. What is called a fungus, however, is not a fungus in reality, but the glandular struc- ture of the testis." The same experienced sur- geon joins Sir Astley Cooper in comparing its formation to that of a hernia cerebri, following ulce- ration of the dura mater. " If (says the former) j'ou dissect the parts in this stage of the disease, you will find, not only tliat the skin lias ulcerated, but that the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albu- ginea have ulcerated also ; and that the glandular structure of the testicle projects through all these openings. You may ascertain the same thing in the living person; for, when the fungus is largo, no portion of the testicle remains within the scro- turn, and you may distinctly trace the spermatic cord into the centre of the fungus. There are a few cases in which an abscess forms in the sub- stance of the testicle, and bursts externally, without the protrusion of a fungus; but these are compara- tively rare. The disease, if it be arrested in the early stage, leaves the testicle with the glandular structure not at all impaired. If it be arrested after it has advanced some way, the glandular structure is partially destroyed; but if it be al- lowed to run its course, the whole of the glandular structure disappears, and you find in lieu of it a new-formed white organised substance, having the consistence of ligament, but without its fibrous character." In the early stage, the testicle is enlarged to many times its-natural size ; but when the disease is suffered to proceed, the body of the organ disappears, and merely a knob or tubercle is left, connected with the slender remains of the spermatic cord. {Sir Benjamin Brodie, in Lo)ul. Med. Gax. vol. xiii. p. 221.) Sir William Lawrence first explained the real nature of this affection, and detailed so accurately the causes, symptoms, and progress of the disorder, that little has been left for succeeding writers to add to his description. {Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. iv. 1808.) He states that the patient generally assigns some blow, or other injury, as the cause of the complaint ; in other instances, it originates in con- sequence of inflammation from syphilis or gonor- rhoea, and sometimes appears spontaneously. A painful but circumscribed swelling of the gland, particularly characterised by its hardness, is the first appearance of the disease. After a certain length of time, the scrotum becomes gradually thinner and ulcerates. The opening which is thus formed, after discharging matter, gives issue to a firm and generally insensible fungous growth. The surrounding integuments and cellular sub- stance are thickened and indurated, so ttiat there appears to be altogether a considerable mass of disease. The pain abates, and the swelling sub- sides considerably, when the scrotum has given way. In this state the disorder is very indolent; but if the fungus be destroyed by any means, the integuments unite, and a cicatrix ensues, which is inseparably connected with the testicle. If the part be examined while the fungus still remains, the excrescence is found to have its origin in the glandular substance of the testicle itself, and the coats of the part are destroyed to a certain extent so that a protrusion of the tubuli seminiferi takes place through the aperture thus formed ; the secret- ing structure of the organ may be largely destroyed if the hernia have existed for a length of time. Sir W. Lawrence thinks that the glandular part of the testicle experii'nees an attack of inflamma- tion in the first instance, in consequence of the violence inflicted on it ; and that the confinement of the swollen substance, by the dense and un- yielding tunica albuginea, sufficiently explains the peculiar hardness of the tumour, and the pain which is alwa)'8 present at this stage of the dis- order. The absorption of the coats of the testis, and of the scrotum, relieves the tension of the parts, and thereby restores ease to the patient, at the same time that the fungus makes its appear- ance externally. In my First Lines of the Pradico of Surgery