3-20 n;eVUS. pressing tlie part witli her finger unremittingly for seven hours at a time, and the use of an alum wash. (Maladies Chir. t. ii. p. 2(]9.) However, he is nol generally an advocate for this treatment; and Dr. Batenian expressly states, that in the majority of cases, pressure is the source of great irritation to these maciilce, and cannot be employed. (P. 329.) Modern experience proves, that superficial na:vi may sometimes be successfully treated by plans calculated to produce an efl'usion of lymph ni their structure, and an obliteration of their vessel". Doubtless, it is on this principle that some na;vi yield to pressure, or to the effects, produced by the insertion of vaccine matter into several points of the tiunour, or the injection of a stimulating lotion into their texture. I was consulted, about two years ago, for a small superficial na;vus situated on the bridge of the nose, where it completely spoiled the couiv tenance of a little girl, about six years old. i touched it twice with the argeiitum nitratum and it soon disappeared. Painting a navus with the tincture of iodine has sometimes answered; and the proposal of Dr, Marshall Hall to p.erce tumours of this sort in every part with needles, has cured them, though slowly, without leaving any scar. These methods are, however, only suited to limited forms of the disease. Lallemant has com- hined the use of needles with the ligature not to produre such a degree of constriction as to destroy the vitality of the tumour, but to induce coagulation of the blood in the cells, and such inflammation as shall obliterate them. This treatment, which is also followed by Mr. Lloyd, I have explained more particularly in speaking of Aneurism by An- astomosis. .. , , f Iniections of the perchloride of iron have been of late years recommended, and have proved suc- cessful in several instances. It is right, however, to state that some fatal cases have occurred from their use. Mr. Robert Carter, of fetroud, details one which happened in his own practice. The patient was a child eleven months ok , who had a rapidly advancing ncevus affecting the ex- terior and interior of the nostrils, as well as the adjoining portion of the cheek. Five drops were injected by a jerk caused by an imperfection in thi syringe. Instant death was the consequence (Med. Times and Gazette, Sept. 5th 1863 p. 262 ) In the same journal for June 18, 1864, p. 683 Mr. Carter refers to another fata case which took place in a colonial hospital. T'^^lf' .'X tem examination shewed that the po.nt_ ot the syringe had penetrated the transverse facial vein, ^he blood in the right ca^;ities of the hean was found firmly coagulated. These cases ot death Smg£m\he a'ccidental wound of a blood vesse in injecting a n^vus, must ever iorm a seuons objection to%he practice. In plungmg the pon of a syringe into the texture of a "a^vu , t e surgeon can never be sure of lodging the tl ud he injects in the intervascular space, and not in a blood-vessel. Irritating fluids, therefore, or those acting chemically on tlie blood, such as the liquoi ammonia;, or tlie perchlori.le of iron, should never be used for the purpose. The actual cautery as a means of destrnying ncevi, and which is not subject to this risk, has not, perhaps, been sulli- ciently appreciated by the profession. It is strongly recommended by Mr. J. R. A. Douglas, Of Hounslow, who has published three successful cases of considerable interest of its employment. Other remedies had been tried but failed to cure the disease. (Lancet for March 2-1, 18CG, p. 3-28.)] . . Dr. Pendleton, of New York, tried vaccination for a ncevus situated on the face of a new-born infant. He introduced the vaccine matter at two opposite points on the margin of the tumour; " the infection was communicated, and had the two pustules met, the deformity would have been en- tirely removed. The only portion of the disease left is, that between the two cicatrices left by the pustules, and is very inconsiderable." Dr. Reese is of opinion, that vaiicination merits a trial in every such case, mid believes, that if three or more points of infection can be obtained, so as to en- velope the tumour, it will doubtless succeed, and is preferable to excision, or the ligature. But, when the naivi obviously belong to the class of aneurisms by anastomosis, are situated on the head, very prominent, and disposed to increase with rapidity. Dr. Reese joins the generality of surgeons in deeming extirpation advisable. In such cases. Dr. Physick's method was to pass a scalpel round the tumour, cutting down to the pericranium, and then tying the arteries separatelj'. Lint was then interposed to prevent union by the first intention. This plan, he says, has been very successful in the hands of Drs. Mott and Jamieson, as well as those of Dr. Physick, and he greatly prefers it to the cure by ligature. (Reese iji A m er. Ed. of this Diet.) The apology for the ligature and caustic, however, we know is founded upon the danger of a sudden gush of blood to the life of an infant. _ _ With regard to the injection of nsevi witli stimulating fluids, Messrs. Paget and FuUager, of Leicester, have recorded a case, in which a healthy and remarkably precocious child died in the course of a minute after a nsevus, situated over the angle of the jaw, had been injected with diluted liquor ammonia;. It . seems probable, that, in this instance, some of the injection passed into the venous system. (See London Med. Gaz. Dec. 30 1837 ) I have not heard, however, of any similar occurrence; but the fact merits recol- lection. , i For all examples, which partake of the nature of aneurism by anastomosis, and are disposed to erow, the best general mode of cure is extirpation. The exceptions to this plan are certain examples, in which the tumour seems to derive its main supply of blood from some large artery, the trunk of which will admit of being tied. The prudence of ex ir- pating the disease, ere it extend too far and the necessity of taking away every particle of he dis- ease, has been already explained: this is what wa advised by F. Hildanus (Cent. v. obs. 4b), what Is stfongiy urged by the celebrated Petit (ffi«n_« Posthumes, t. i.), what v.'a\recommended ,n tU more animated terms by Joh. B 1 (/ -' ^ rivles of Surqcrv, discourse ix.), and it is ^^hat is Suhirly insisted upon in another part of this Dictionary. (See Aneurism.) The ha;morrhaffe from the excision of some na;vi, Uoieiirso prise, and the difficult>-^of « .way all the disease so great, that my f"^""^^'J^^^^ ;„ IJgh. (See Med. Chir. Trous. vol. xm.) ^^ hen