the corner of the eye does not depend necessarily M upon any disease of the nasal duct. As Dr. Mackenzie has judiciously remarked, the conse- quence of not distinguishing the different diseases of the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs from each other has been an attempt to discover a single successful method of curing them all. " Now there is no one method of treatment by which this can be accomplished; and hence it is that the several remedies which have been proposed, being eminently successful in one or other of these diseases, but not adapted to all the rest, have at different times been held in such various degrees of estimation." On Dis. of ike Lachrymal Organs, p. 10, 8vo. Lond. 1819.) And an intelligent critic observes that in lachrymal diseases, obstruction of the nasal duct appears to be almost the only cir- cumstance, against which the treatment recom- mended by the surgeons of France and England has been directed. "On sait qu'au re'tre'cisse- ment ou a I'oblit^ration du canal nasal, produits par une cause quelconque, est due, dans presque tous les cas, la maladie qui nous occupe; soit que, reste'es intactes, les paiois du sac presentent une tumeur lachrymale, d'oii les larmes refluent con- tinuellement sur les joues, ii travers les points lachrymaux : soit qu'en partie d^truites et ulce- re'es, ces parois pre'sentent une fistule, qui offre aux larmes uii passage centre nature, sans cesse entretenue par elies; en sorte que ces deux e'tats, la tumeur et la fistule, sont presque toujours des degre's diffe'rens, d'une meme affection, et que le traitement qui convient a I'une repose sur les memea bases que celui indique' dans 1'autre.' (CEuvres Chir. de Desault, t. ii. p. 120.) It is evident, from the writings of Pott and Ware, that even these authors considered the obstruction of the nasal duct as the foundation of all the train of varied symptoms presented by the excreting lachrymal organs. "An obstruction in the nasal duct IS most frequently the primary and original cause of the complaint." " The seat of this disease 18 the same in almost every subject," says Mr. Pott {Obs.ou the Fistula Lachrymalis) ; and the latu Mr. Ware, in his observations on the same disease, sets out with the same assumption. Now. obstruction of the nasal duct is an occasional con- sequence merely of inflammation of the excreting lachrymal organs; in most of their disease?, ob- struction of the nasal duct lins no part; and one might, with as much propriety, treat all the affec- tions of the bladder and urethra, by the dilatation of the latter part, as treat all the diseases of the excretmg lachrymal organs, by dilating the nasal duct. The false assumption in question has led to most erroneous treatment. For instance, in blen- norrhoea of the sac, and in hernia of the sac, though m both these diseases the nasal duct is free, the common treatment, in this country, has been to open the sac with a knife and thrust down a style or some other instrument, into the nose; thus de- stroying the organisation of the parts which are affected merely with a gleety secretion in the one case, and with extreme relaxation in the other of thff'l,-'l'%T.T^"' ^"•■P"»i"g tl>''t errors of this kind should have prevailed so l„„g, pa,-, ticn arly as experience had taught Mr. Pott, that S ight cases might be benefited by the simpli em- ployment of a vitriolic collyriumj a fact which ought to have convinced him that the disease did not always depend upon obstruction nf the na-al VOL. II. ""-"1 LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. 161 duct It is curious, therefore, that he did not fully see this mistake, for that he knew of these diseases having great variety is evident from the following remark :—« As the st te and circumstances of this disease are really various, and differ very essen- tially from each other, the general custom of calling them all by the one name of fistula lachrymalis is absurd." I believe that one great cause of de- ception has been the fact, that, though laying open the lachrymal sac, and the introduction of instru- ments down the nasal duct, have been frequently practised, when milder plans would have answered every purpose, yet a cure has often followed the practice, and thus confirmed the supposition of relief having been effected by the renioval of the nnaginary obstruction in the nasal duct. Thus, the late Mr. Ramsden, of St. Bartholomew's, always followed the common plan of passing a probe down the nasal duct, and letting the patient keep a piece of bougie, or a style, in the part for two or three months afterwards; and I scarcely recollect an instance in which he failed to accomplish a cure, though, I have no doubt, that the same benefit might sometimes have been obtained without any operation at all. And a discerning practitioner should never forget that, if no permanent obstruc- tion exist in the nasal duct, a cure will generally follow, on the subsidence of inflammation, and a change taking place in the action of the parts whether a probe, style, canula, bougie, or seton, be employed or not. _^ Erysipelas of the parts covering the Lachrymal ^nc—Beer considers it highly necessary that this case should be discriminated from inflammation of the sac itself, which is often but little affected, and this even when an abscess forms. Unless the true nature of the disease be comprehended, the surgeon IS apt to suppose that the matter is in the sac itself, and believes that when he makes an open- ing he IS puncturing that receptacle, whereas he is Hi reality merely dealing with a superficial abscess of the integuments. Nor. as Beer has observed, IS the mistake free from ill consequences; for, imagmingthat the wound is made into the sac, the surgeon pokes about with his probe so lone, that a ■ good deal of unnecessary pain and iiiflamnlation is produced. The case is not very frequent, and is mostly met with in scrofulous subjects, who have had for a considerable time a blennonhrea of the lachrymal sac. The inflammation partakes of the usual characters of erysipelas, and commonly extends to the eyelids, particularly the upper one 1 he absorption and conveyance of the tears into the lachrymal sac are interrupted, because the in- flammation constantly affects the lachrvmal dncts and puncta. VVhen the inflammation spreads over the side of the face. Beer says, there is usually a discharge of thin mucus from the nose; and \Nhon the aflcctioii e.Uends more deeply, to the anterior portion of the lachrymal sac, as may easily happen when the case is neglected or treated in" its first stage with stimulating application, a bean shaped circumscribed, hard, painful tumour may be felt' or is even denoted by its very red appearance' Ihe puncta lachrynialia are now completely closed' the papilliu shrivelled up, and the nostiil on the atleeted side dry and tender. If in the first stage of t!io disorder, the la- chrymal jiapillic and canals have not been too violently alfected, the former parts expand am.;., and the absorption of the tears recommonces