3D6 OPHTHALMOSCOPE. So long as the olDserver is occupied vvitli the relative positions of the larger parts of the fundus oculi, rather than with a close scrutiny of tine objects, the inverted image should be preferred, and especially, when it is desirable to diminish illumination on account of disease. Notwith- standing the absence of high magnifying power the examination of the inverted image, on account of the larger visual fii-ld and more comprehensive view that it affords, is suflicient to guard against any grave errors in practice. The examination of the erect image, indispensable for many purposes, such as the observation of changes in the optic nerve, pulsation of its vessels, and so forth, is chiefly needed for the investigation of the fine details of changes, the seat of which has already been made known by the indirect method. The same rules apply to these as to all diagnostic means; and for the right estimation of morbid changes, it is before all things essential to compare the dis- eased parts with the healthy tissues around them, as well as to compare different portions of diseased structure with one another. The relations between the two methods are for the fundus of the eye much like the relations between unaided examina- tion and examination through a lens, of the more external parts of the organ. For the inspection of a small corneal opacity, or of a pigment-spot on the anterior capsule, the magnifying glass renders us important service; but still we should diagnose the affections of the cornea and of the pupil badly, if we regarded the magnifier in any other light than as an occasional auxiliarj'. (v. Graefe.) Since in examination of the inverted image we obtain a general view of the retina, while the ex^ amination of the erect image gives the clearest and most magnified view of details, it follows that m ■ exact inquiries the two methods should be com- bined. Neither the one nor the other, however, should be continued too long, or repeated too fre quentli', as a diseased eye may be seriousl}; injured by prolonged or unduly repeated examination. The foregoing section still leaves room for a few observations that may be useful to beginners, with regard to the best method of conducting an ophthalmoscopic examination. It is an important element of success, that the patient should be comfortably and easily seated : well back in the chair, and with the head erect. Mr Streatfield has invented a special chair for the purpose, with a high straight back, that may be occasionally useful. It is described and figured in the third volume of the ' Ophthalmic Hospital ''^'ThTobserver should be seated with his eyes not perfectly on a level with, but a very little higher than, those of the patient. The two faces should be precisely opposite to one another, feature tor feature, and the surgeon should use his riglit eye for the inspection of the left, and vice versa. 1 tie patient should be cautioned not to turn his head, when told to alter the direction of his gaze. Bctore commencing it is well to observe what amount ot control he possesses over the movements ot his eyes, and how far he is able to look upwards and downwards, to the right hand or the left. It is well known that ocular movements are best guided by reference to some object of vision. Mr. Hulke has made the useful and practical suggestion to place a large screen, divided into numbered compartments, at some distance behind the surgeon, who, knowing the position of the figures, would tell the patient to look at 7 or at .'). This is an excellent contrivance, but still it m;iy sometimes be replaced by objects that are always in readiness, namcl}-, the fingers of the hand tl, i holds the mirror. For this purpose I depart fr the common practice, and, for the inverted im;iL , place the handle of the mirror horizontally acre my face, applying it to the riglit eye with the V l hand, for examination of the left eye, and to tin' left eye with the right hand, for examination of the right. I take the handle between my fort- finger and thumb only, turn the palm towards iIk-. patient, elevate the remaining fingers, and tell the patient to look at them steadily and to follow their movements. If the sight be tolerably good, the observer will thus obtain complete command of the position of the globe, and may guide it in a iy di- rection. If the optic disc be nearly out of sif;lit, a slight change in the place of the fingers will bring it into, and keep it in the centre of the field. If the sight be defective, it is easy to keep the fingers in to-and-fro movement, by which means they are seen more readily than any stationary oljject. If the sight be good, and the pupil not under the influence of atrophia, the fingers will be too near the patient to serve as suitable objects of vision. In accommodating the eye for them, the contraction of the pupil that is usually associated with the action of the ciliary muscle, would interfere with the admission of light. This difficulty is easily obviated by directing the patient to look past the fingers at an object on the other side of the room. The horizontal position of the mirror-handle has the additional advantage of placing the object- lens in the hand that corresponds to the temporal side of the eye examined. If it be held in the other hand, the nose of the patient is in the way, and he breathes over the hand and up the sleeve of the surgeon. I am accustomed to take the object- lens between the thumb and index finger, and to rest the ulnar side of the tip of the third finger against the upper margin of the orbit, a httle ex- ternal to the vertical meridian of the eye. If there ■ be any tendency to closure of the lids, it is easy in this position to take up a fold of skm with the ■ finger, and to control the upper lid, without in the least alarming or hurting the patient, and it is also easy to exert any degree of pressure upon the filube. , „ • • .1, To use the ophthalmoscope of Coccius in ttin manner described, it is necessary to remove the handle from its usual position, and to fix it opposite to the horizontal axis of the collecting lens The ophthalmoscopes of Coccius and Zehender, on account of their collecting lenses, require sliMitly dilferent management from the simple con- cave mirror. The beginner will find it best to place either of them nearly in the position it will require to occupy, and to arrange the position of the collecting lens,'so as to throw a bnlhant inverted iman-e of the flame upon the cheek of the patien', as a°pivliminary to looking through the perforation, and guiding the light into the aperture of the pupil. In the examination of the erect image t a- eye of the observer is brought close to that of the p iticnt, so much so, as to int. rf. rc with any object 0 vision. The movements of the globe can then- V 1 I, A^A l,v vpihiil directions, or by fore only be 6'"^ ^ J /jX tie„t w th the: tl L'htlv movinsr ttie lieau m i hand-' and th/ohscM.er will find U useful to varyf