UTERUS, RETROVERSIO^ AND RETROFLEXION OF, 807 Concours, I860. {Contains experiments on the dead body to illustrate the conditions of snoport and de- i-ceiit of tlie uterus.) Mai/er, Carl, Ueber Extirpa- iion o. Amputation hypertroph. Vaginalportion bei prolapsus uteri, IWonatssclir. fiir Geburtskunde, 1S58. Hodge, U. L., On Diseases peculiar to Women, including displacements of the Uterus, Philadelphia, 18150. Scamoni, Diseases of Women, French Edition, 185S. Bennct, J. H., Inflammation of the Uterus, 2nd ed. 1849. Aran, Maladies de I'Ut^rus, 1858 I860. liecqucrel. Maladies de I'Ut^rus, 1859. Marion Sims, 1860. £;«»ie^. New York, 1869. Baker Urown,Sm- gical Diseases of Women, 1866. Des df^viations uierines. Maladies des Femmes, Bernutz et Goupil, 1802.] UTERUS, RETROVERSION AND RE- TROFLEXION OF, is said to happen, when its fundus falls downwards and backwards, between the rectum and the posterior part of the vagina, while its cervix inclines upwards towards the syniphj'sis pubis. The ancients are suspected to have liad some imperfect notions of this case, and, in proof of this opinion, certain passages are referred to in CEtius (Tetrab. iv. Serm. 4. C. 77), Mercurialis, Mercatus, mid others (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. xxiii. p. 273). Be this as it may, it is generally confessed, that the subject had fallen into oblivion, when Dr. William Hunter called the attention of his pupils to the subject, in 1754, and afterwards drew up an interesting paper con- cerning it {Med. Obs. and Inquiries, vol. iv. 8vo. Lond. 1771). Subsequently, the knowledge of the subject was extended by the observations of Wlzezeck {De Uloro Retrqflexo, Prag. 1777), the remarks of Richter {Cliir. DiU. b. v. p. o21, and b. ix. p. 182), those of Wall (Diss, de Vleri Retroversione, Hal. 1782), and by the memoir of Desgranges, to which the prize of the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris was adjudged in the year 1785. According to Sabatier, retroversion of the womb was mentioned by Gregoire in his private lectures on midwifery, at Paris. Walter Wall, an English surgeon, who had attended Gr(Sguire, suspected that he had met with a retroversio uteri in a woman some months advanced in pregnancy, and he called in Dr. Hunter, in order that he might have the benefit of his advice. However, she was attacked with an obstinate constipation, and retention of urine, and died in about a week. A large tumor was found occupying the whole of the pelvis, and pushing the vagina against the os pubis. It had been found impracticable to push the swelling back into the abdomen, although the patient had been put on her knees and elbows, while one hand had been introduced into the vagina, and two fingers of the other hand into the rectum. Great curiosity ex- isted about what information would be afforded by dissection. On opening the body, the bladder, which was exceedingly full of urine, filled almost the whole anterior part of the abdomen, in the same manner as the uterus does in the last month of pregnancy. When it had been emptied, that part of it in which the ureters terminate, and which is connected with the vagina and cervix uteri, was found raised up, as high as the upper aperture of the pelvis, by a large tumor, which filled the whole cavity of the pelvis, and was found to be the uterus. A catlieter, when passed into the vagina, could bo made to lift up the latter viscns and the upper part of the tumor. This portion of the swelling, on wliicli the bladder lay, .consisted of the cervix uteri, while the fujulus of this organ was situated downwards towards the os coccygis and anus. The iiterns was so large, that it could not be taken out of the pelvis, until the symphysis pubis liad been divided, and the two ossa innominata pulled asunder. The same thing was exemplified in another instance (See Per/eel's Cases, vol. i. p. 349). It was found impossible to assign any cause for the displace- ment of the uterus, as the patient had been making no exertion, and had met with no fall, though she is said to have been frightened at something just before the complaint commenced (See Med. Surg, and Obs. vol. i.). Dr. Hunter, struck with the singular nature of the case, thought it deserving of the attention of medical men, and lie made it the subject of a lecture, which he delivered in 1754. He was afterwards consulted by several persons, who were afflicted with retroversio uteri ; but not in so acute a way as in the above instance. All the patients were in the third month of pregnancy, and first suffered a difficulty of making water, succeeded by retention of urine, and afterwards by tenesmus and constipation. Dr. Hunter always emptied the bladder and rectum by means of a catheter and clysters, which measures sometimes effected a cure, the uterus spontaneously resuming its natural position. In every instance, the acci- dent disappeared when pregnancy was more ad- vanced, and the uterus had acquired larger dimen- sions. In some cases, in which Dr. Hunter was consulted too late, the trials to empty the bladder and replace the uterus proved fruitless, and the women died. Dr. Hunter was so firmly con- vinced of the impossibility of saving patients, cir- cumstanced in the above manner, unless extraor- dinary means were resorted to, that he thought that an endeavour should be made to diminish the size of the uterus, by introducing a trocar into the body of this viscus, through the posterior parietes of the vagina, so as to let out the water of the amnios, the relative quantity of which is known to be greater in the early than in the advanced stage of pregnancy (See Jourel, in Bulletin de la Faculiede Med. p. 173. an. 1832). Such a puncture miglit certainly be the means of bringing the uterus back into its natural position; but not without considerable danger of abortion being produced. No risk of this kind would be encountered by puncturing the bladder above the pubes. In this manner, a free passage would be alForded for the escape of the urine, and the re- duction of the uterus might then be effected. Tiie suggestion of puncturing the uterus, I believe, has only been put in practice in one example in this country; and, I believe with Mr. Weir, that it is not likely to be often adopted, because a safer mode of discharging the fluid must generally be that of opening the membranes through the os tincaj, if such evacuation were deemed prudent {Glasgow Med. Journ. vol. i. p. 268). At all events, we must let the expedient of puncturing the uterus only be deemed applicable, as Mr. Baynham observes, " to cases in which the re- placement shall be found impracticable, after the bladder has been emptied " {Edinb. Med, Journ. No. 103. p. 261). Mr. Inglcby, in his valuable paper on Malpo- sition of the uterus, lays it down as a maxim, that if, iu roti'ovcrsiiin, the continued pressure should occasion inllammalion of the bladder, or render