SU VENEREAL DISEASE. eased. The ulcuratlon spreads to the suiToiiiidin;; integuments, while anew skin forms in the centre, and keeps pace with the ulceration, ao that an ir- regular sore, which Mr. Ihuiter compares with a worm-eaten groovej is formed all round. It ap- pears only to have the power of contaminating tiie parts, which have not yet been affected ; and those which have, readily heal. According to the same author, when buboes become stationary, and are little inclined to spread, attended with a sinus or two, hemlock, joined with bark, is the medicine most frequently serviceable. It is to be used both externally and internally. Mr. Hunter also speaks favourably of sarsapariUa, sea-bathing, and sea- Avater poultices. In such cases, the efficacy of hydriodate of potash, the ioduret of mercury, and sarsaparilla in limewater, is recognised by nume- rous surgeons of the present time. Lues Venerea, or Constitutional Syphilis.—Sur- geons implj' that a lues venerea has taken place when the venereal virus has been absorbed into the circulation. Mr. Hunter does not think the epithet constitutional strictly proper in its applica- tion to this form of the venereal disease. By con- stitutional disease, he observes, he should under- stand that in which every part of the body is acting in one way, as in fevers of all kinds ; but the venereal poison seems to be only diffused through the circulating fluids, and, as it were, to force certain parts of the body to assume the venereal action, which action is perfectly local. To use Mr. Hunter's phrase, it takes place in different parts in a regular succession of suscepti- bilities. Only a few parts are acting at the same time ; and a person may be constitutionally affected in this way, and yet almost every function be perfect. Tlie venereal poison is generally conveyed into the system fi'om a chancre. It may also, according to Mr. Hunter's doctrine, be absorbed from a go- norrhoea, though, if confidence can be placed in M. Ricord's investigations, only where the discharge from the urethra, or vagina, &c., is either wholly or in part derived from chancres existing in, or upon, such parts. Whether there is a possibility of its getting into the circulation from the surface of the body, without any previous ulceration, is an- other point already considered. According to Hunter's doctrine, it may also be absorbed from common ulcers, tvitkout necessarily rendering them venereal; and it may be taken up from wounds, in which cases it generally first causes ulceration. Ulcers from Constitutional Syphilis.—In conse- quence of the blood being contaminated with real venereal pus, it might be expected that the local effects, thus produced, would be similar in their nature to those producing thera. Before the time of Mr. Hunter, the matter se- creted by sores which arise from a constitutional infection was always considered to be of a poison- ous quality, like tlie matter of a chancre. At first, one would expect that this must actually be the case, because venereal matter is the cause ; and mercury cures chancres, and also the ulcers proceeding from a lues venerea. Mr. Hunter re- marks that when pus is absorbed from a chancre, it generally produces a bubo; but that a bubo is never occasioned by the absorption of matter from a venereal sore, arising from the virus diffused in the circuhiti(m. For instance, when there is a cunstilutional venereal ulcer in the throat, no buboes occur in the glands of the neck ; when liiure are syphilitic sores on the arms, or even suppurating nodes of the ulna, no swellings form in the glands of the armpit, although these com. plaints occur when fresii venereal matter is applied to the arm, hand, or fingers. No swelling is pro- duced in the groin in consequence of nodes, or blotches on the legs and thighs. The correctness of the Ilunterian doctrine of the impossibility of communicating the venereal disease by inocula- tions with the matter taken fi'om any of its se- condary or constitutional forms has been put to the test of experiment by M. Ricord, and the re- sults, he says, conform to the truths established by Hunter. {Mai. Ven. p. 161.) M. Ricord also subscribes to the doctrine adopted by Hunter, Jourdan, &c., that the dis- ease cannot be communicated by inoculating with the blood of a syphilitic patient. " When once the matter is blended with the blood (says he) it is no longer inoculable." (P. 164.) And amongst other inferences, M. Ricord lays down the follow- ing one : that whenever a symptom, whatever may be its seat or apparent form, is still inoculable, it must of necessity be the product of direct contagion, and not the result of general infection from absorption established at another point. (P. !66.) [Itisnow well established, by the experiments of Wallace and others, that inoculation with the matter of secondary ulcers will be followed, in many cases, by distinct local manifestation of disease of a venereal cha- racter.] Some very important experiments are related in Mr. Hunter's Treatise on the Venereal Disease, in order to prove that the matter from a gonorrhoea, or chancre, is capable of affecting a man locally who is already labouring under a lues venerea; and that the matter from secondary syphilitic sores has not the same power. Parts most susceptible of Lues Venerea, ^c.— Some parts of the body seem to be much less sus- ceptible of lues venerea than others ; indeed, Mr. Hunter observes that, so far as our knowledge extends, certain parts cannot be affected at all. The brain, heart, stomach, liver, kidneys, and se- veral other viscera, have never been known to be attacked by syphilis. [Since Mr. Cooper's time pathologists have recognised that deposits of plastic lymph may take place in the viscera here men- tioned as the result of syphilitic cachexia. See Guv's Hospital Reports, 3rd ser. vol. ix. p. 1.] T/ic first order of parts, or those which become, affected in the early stage of lues venerea {second- ary syphilis) are the skin, tonsils, throat, inside of the mouth, the iris, and sometimes the tongue. T/io second order of parts (tertiary syphilis), or those affected at a later period, are the periosteum and bones, the fibrous textures about the joints, the testicle, the larynx, and the nose. Mr. Hunter conceived that one great reason for the superficial parts of the body suffering from the effects of lues venerea sooner than the deep-se;ited ones, was that they were more exposed to external cold. He remarked that even the second order of tM-t's (those affected in tertiary syphilis) do not all Bfcome diseased at the same time, nor everywhere at once. But, on the contrary, such as are nearest the external surface of the body are first diseasi-d, as, for instance, the periosteum, b.mes of the heaa, the tibia, ulna, bones of the nose, &c. ^ does the disease affect these bones equally on all