MORTIFICATION, 299 emollita erant proponit; Lips. 1757. Fries, Pisscrt. de BiiKillitiime Ossiuiii ; Ar;;eiilor. 1775. Thomson, in Med. Olis. and Inquiries, vol v. p. 259. Cliir. Ubs and Cases, by Wm. Brunifielit, vol. ii. P- 50, &c. Boj^er, Tniit^ dcs Malndifs Cliir. t. iii. p. 607, &c.; Paris, 18H. [.SVoH/ev, On Diseases of the li'.nfs lti49. R' k'tanski/, Manual of Pathological Aiuuomy, v 1. iii. Syd.Suc isril. Tli6>e siir le Riiclntisrae, ltio2. Oerilv, Maladies des Orsanes du Moiivenii nt, 1855. MrdCliir.Traiis.\oU. x\ , xxvii., x,\xiii., xxxvii. We niei-t wiih cases of Mollifies Ossinm in the ['hilo- sopliicalTiaiisactions ; Act. Hattniens ; Kiibera. Nat. Cur.; Niti-iartl sUbs. Cliir.j the writings of Forrstiis. Cooc/i's Chir. Works, vol. ii. pp 393- 399, ed. 1792. &c. ,/. in/.ion, on tl e Structure and Physiology oi the Skeleton ; and on the Diseases of the Bones and Joints, p. 252, idc. 8vo Lond. ISiO Goorf'* Htuily oi Mi'd. vol. V. p. 3:i+, ed. +. J. Hou'slnp, in Eilin. .Med Chir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 137. Herbert Alaiio, Outlines ol Human Halbolosy, sect. 3. 8vu ; Lond. 1835. Med. Chir. Trims. Lancet. Med. Times and Gazette. Brit. Med. Journal. London MedicalJournal.] MORTIFICATION or GANGRENE. [This term signifies tlie death of any part of the body in consequence of injury or disease. The diversity of circumstances under which it may occur has caused it to be classified in various man- ners. Thus, if the mortified part has been previously inflamed, swelled, and loaded with liquid effusion, the terms humid, acute, and inflam- matory mortihcation are used; whereas, if the mor- tified part has died without previous inflammation, sweUiiig,and effusion, the gangrene is said to be dry. Many classifications are founded on the nature of the exciting causes. These were arranged thus by Professor Carswell:—1. Cessation of circulation; 2. Violent operation of mechanical, chemical and physical agents ; 3. Influence of certain poisons. The degree of completeness of the process is also indicated by corresponding terms : tlius tlie term sphacelus is used when the affected part has lost all motion, sensibility, and warmth, and has become entirely dead. So long as any remains of vitality linger, the state is said to be one of gan- grene ; hence a gangrenous state may exist without ending in complete sphacelus {Ric/Uer, Anfangsgr, tier Wwidarzn., b. i. kap. 3). Some writers nialie the distinguishing feature of sphacelus to be death of tlie bones as well as of the soft parts {Lasstts, Patltologie Chir. t. i. p. 30, et/. 1809), a distinc- tion pronounced by Pearson to be useless {Prin- ciples of Siirgeri/, p. 115, erf. 2).] The definition of Dr. J. Tlioiiisun has become almost classical. " I shall employ the term gangrene," he saj's, '• to express that state of mortification in iiillamed paits which precedes the di'ath of the part; a staf;e in which there is a diminution, but not a total destruction, of the powers of life; in which the blood appears to circulate through tiie larger ves.-cls; in which tlie nerves retain a portion of tlieir sensibility; and in which, perhaps, the part afi'eclcd, may still be supposed to be capaljle of recovery. The word sphacelus, I shall use to denote the complete death, or mortification of n part; that state, in which the powers of life have become extinct; in which the blood ceases to cir- culate; and in which thu sensibility of the nerves is lost, whether the dead or mortified part has, or has not, become actually putrid, or shown any tendency to separate and fall away from the living and sound parts. I'mrrfuction, or the spontaneous process, by which animal bodies are decomposed, 13 an accidental, and not a necessary, effect of the state of mortification. It takes place at very different periods, after the death of particular parts; and these periods, it may be remarked, are always regulated, n<it only by external circumstances, ^uuh as the humidity ancT temperature of the atmosphere, but, also, by the peculiar stiucture, and morbid conditions of the animal texture, or organ, in which the putrefaction occurs. The term sphacelus has, I know, been employed to express, th.it a part is not only completely dead, or morti- fied; but, also, that that part has become putrid, and is in a state of separation from the surround iiig and living parts. But, as putrefaction is not a necessary, or immediate, consequence of mortifi- cation, or partial death in animal bodies, this use of the terra sphacelus is obviously improper." {On Iiiflanunalion, p. .')04.) Dr. Carswell pointed out the essential identity with mortification of certain minute changes going on in the interior of tissues ; and protested against the restriction of the term to parts outward and visible. «"It may," he says, " be fairly questioned whether the application of the term mortification has not been too restricted; and whether p>irts, deprived of their vitality, and separated from the living tissues, should not be designated by the same appellation as those which, similarly circumstanced, differ from them only in point of colour, and perhaps smell. Softening of the cerebral substance, of the mucous, and fre- quently of the serous, membranes constitutes a state of positive death; but, the softened sub- stance, in those instances, presenting neither the peculiar colour nor odour of external parts, when mortified, it has been considered proper to distin- guish softening from mortification by a terra expressive of its principal ch.iracter—that of soft- ness." (See Canwell's Illudraiions of the Elemen- tary Forms of Disease, Fuse. 7.) [Here modern pathology displays a very wide field. In the first place, we must remember, that, as every individual unit of the body lives but a limited time, so there must be a time for the natural and physiological death or mortification of every such living unit : a process which is familiar enough to us, in the shedding of all epithelial structures: hair, cuticle, nails, gland epithelium, &c. Dr. Lionel Beale has, moreover, rendered it probable, that but a small portion of our tissues is Mctually living in the proper sense of the word, i.e., endowed with germinal power—power of growth and assimilation. The bulk consists of formed matter, which is nseful by its mechanical qiiaiities, or through undergoing oxydation and conversion into various secretions. Amongst real mortifications there must bo reckoned the dailv death of effete structures ; and we ma}' see how a failure of germinal force, or an excessive and premature decay of formed matter, accompanied with some of these slow processes of decomposition which pass under the name of-'fatty degeneration," constitute many of these internal softenings of wliicii Dr. Carswell spoke. U kerations and cartes, also, are true varieties of mortification on a minute scale.] The ciiiiseg of mortification arc citlier infernal or external. It win commonly tauglit in the medical schools on tiio Continent, that the internal causes probably operate after the manner of a deleterious substance, which, being introduced into the circu- lation, occasions a putrefaction of the fluids—ncc- rieinia, deatli of blood. {Lassus, op, ct loc, cit.) —Boycr professes a similar notion (see Maladies