TONGUE, DISKASRS OF 747 of strength, so that nn improvemont in this respect was almost daily observalilu ; and before the end of three weeks the patient declared tliat he had never felt better in his life, lie returned to Manchester on January '_'3rd. " Excision of the tongue has thus afforded com- plete relief in a case of the most formidable and distressing disease. How far the relief thus ob- tained may prove permanent, and how far it may admit of being extended to cases of similar kind, are questions that can be determined only by ex- perience. But the frequency of malignant growth atfecting the tongue in an otherwise sound state of the system urgently requires the truth to be ascer- tained in regard to the value of a remedial measure; and if the operation ia now, as I trust it lias been, freed from the chief danger attending its per- formance, facts sufficient for the purpose will pro- bably ere long be accumulated."—Za«fei, Feb. 4, 1805, p. 115. After a lapse of twelve months, Mr. Syme thus reports on the condition of this patient :— " The wound made in the operation through the jawbone and lip had soundly united without any -■•■formitj'. The opening between the mouth and pharynx was diminished and irregular in shape, but he could swallow as well as ever, provided the food was finely divided. He could also masticate solid substances, though difficulty was experienced sometimes from their getting into awkward parts of the mouth. He could speak very clearly, and sing without difficulty. A few consonants (d, j, g, and s) were not quite clearly articulated. He could distinguish different articles and their quali- ties by the taste; but the sense of taste resided in the upper part of the pharynx, as was proved both by the patient's own sensations and by applying sapid but non-odorous solutions (salt and sugar) to the mucous membrane of the mouth, when their taste was not distinguished." Prof. Syme ob- serves : " Of the facts above mentioned, the one which seems most curious is the connection be- tween taste and deglutition, from which it appears that the latter is essential for a full perception of the fcumer. If the pleasure of taste could be per- fectly gratified by mastication without deglutition, there would be no limit to the consumption of food ; but the instinctive desire to swallow an agreeable morsel affords a check to any sucli a.bt\se."—Lancet, Jan. 27, 1866. An operation of a much less formidable charac- ter, by means of the ^craseur, has been devised by Mr. Nunneley, and has been attended with very remarkable success. The following is his description of the method he adopts:— " I take a sharp-pointed, curved blade, about four inches long, and of just sufficient thickness and breadth to carry the wire rope of the iJcraseur. This rope I have made somewhat thicker than those ordinarily supplied by Messrs. Weiss, with liick's instrument, and 1 always have a second in rcsirrve, in case the first one should give way. The middle of the rope should be attached by a piece of string to an eye made in the broad end of the blade. The patient reclining on his back in a semi-recum- bent position, this blade is plunged exactly in the jnedian line between the base of the jaw and the 08 hyoides, but soniewliat nearer to the latter than to tlio former, into the moirth, and brought up at the fiiununi lingiuc, and so out of tiic moutii, tlie wire rope following. A good-sized loop of the ropo nuist be drawn through, and llie needle cut off. The rope must now be carried well back and spread over the base of the tongue, the tip of which, being then drawn through the loop, is seized with Leur's tongue-forceps and pulled forcibly outwards, and somewhat upwards. Two or three long and strong hare-lip pins, somewhat curved towards their points, should next be carefully thrust from the under-side of the anterior attachment of the tongue through its substance, and brought out on its up- per surface as near to the base as possible. One of these pins should pass on each side, and if a third be used it should traverse the median line. Their points should just appear on the upper sur- face, and over them should the rope be carried. They will thus serve to prevent its slipping for- ward when it begins to be tightened, as it might otherwise do. They are not absolutely necessar}', but I think are useful, and give rise to very little pain; besides which they serve to indicate the exact portion which has to be removed. Of course the larger this is, the more carefully nmst the pins be carried well back. The screw of the instru- ment should now be turned so as to gently fix the wire, that it may not move from the line in which it is intended to cut. "Hitherto very little pain has been inflicted, and the voluntary efforts of the patient have been ■ useful in facilitating the proceedings ; but at this stage he should be put fully under the influence of an anaesthetic, so that he may not feel, and the screw of the ecraseur be steadily, but very delibe- rately turned, the tongue being forcibly extended. It speedily becomes strangulated, and is cut off. The operator must be prepared to find in most cases considerable resistance, and to employ moi e force in turning the screw than possiblj', a priori, he might anticipate would be required; though as the force necessary varies considerably in different tongues, he must be on his guard, or the wire may cut through too rapidly, and serious bleeding from the lingual arteries may ensue. To meet this con- tingency I have always had in readiness diff'erent forms of cauterising-irons, as well as the solid per- chloride of iron (in a liquid state it is of very little use in free, deep hajmorrhage), though in only one case has there been any bleeding whatever from the^ divided base. In that case—the last in which 1 have operated—the tongue yielded with much less force than it had done in any other and was cut through more rapidly than I intended it should have been. For a moment there was free bleeding from one lingual artery, but none from the other. Though the mouth of the vessel could not be seen the part was seized with forceps and a ligature placed upon it, when the bleeding at once stopped and did not return. "The small subnumtal wound has in every case healed by the first intention. The mouth and pharynx, for tlie first tliirty-six hours, are painful and deglutition is difficult, but these symptoms very soon mitigate, and the patient is able" to swal- low liquids ; though I think it in all cases advis- able to administer nutritious enemata and opiates and thus keep the throat quiet. A little ice |)laced in the mouth is usually very grateful. In a fortnight or three weeks the wound heals. Tiio two last"casea I had, a man and a wonum, both returned home in three weeks quite well. It is siirprisinir how speedily the patient improves in condition." The