850 ' URINARY admitted, that llthic acid itself constitutes by far the most common nucleus, even when other cal- culous matter is deposited round it. (Sec Piout on Gravel, p. 95.) It is sometimes conjectured that the female is less liable than the male sex to calculi ; but whether tliis is the fact, or whether the circumstance can be satisfactorily explained on another principle—viz. the facUty with which lithic acid sand, and any calculi ol moderate size, are generally discharged through the short and capacious meatus urinanus—are luiestions perhaps not yet completely settled. Infants and children to the age of twelve or fourteen are very liable to stone. However it is asserted by Delpech that, at this period ot lite, relapses are unfrequent ; that is to say, an en- tirely fresh stone is hardly ever formed again ; and, if a return of the complaint happens, the quickness of its recurrence, and an attentive ex- amination of the calculus, will mostly prove, either that the second stone has formed round a fragment of the first, left behind, or that it existed when the fomer one was taken out, but was not discovered. I am not inclined to put much faitli in this statement, because it is hardly credible that the calculous diathesis of childhood can be at all diminished by the circumstance of there having already been one calculus, and of the patient having had the bladder opened for its removal. Dr Marcet thinks that the disorder is frequent only among the children of the poor classes ; and that, in those of the higher ranks, or even of the lowest classes, provided they are well/ed, the same frequency is not observed. "In the Foundling Hos- pital, for instance, within the last twenty-seven years, during which 1,151 children have been ad- mitted only three cases of stone have occurred, all of which were among children while at nurse in the country; and in the Military Asylum at Chel- sea which contains about 1,250 children, and into which upwards of 6,000 of them have been already admitted, no more than one single case of stone has occurred." (See MarcetS Essay on Calculous Disorders, p. 36.) r ^ i In the period of life between the age of twelve or fourteen, and that of forty, the liability to stone in the bladder is much less than in intancy, child- hood, or old age; and, no doubt, many of the cases which do -present themselves in adults or middle aged individuals, either began at an earlier period of life, or are owing to some extraneous nucleus. ,, , According to Delpech, in old men who are particularly subject to calculi, the disposition to the return of the disease always continues during life ; and hence, in tliem relapses are frequent. (Prras (/es Ma/. C/iir. t. ii. p. 193, &c.) . [Sir H. Thompson gives a table showing the prevalence of stone, at different ages, i>i cases of lithotomy in certain London ^^A^vo- vincial Hospitals. (Practical Lithotomy and Ltlho- iritv, p. 269.) This table has been conveniently re-arranged by Mr. Poland, who shows that 51-45 per cent, of the whole number of cases occur be- fore pubertv, i. e. from one to thirteen years ot age ; or 25-"89 per cent, from one to five years, and 25-56 per cent, from six to thirteen years. At puberty, and during early manhood, i. e. irom foiuteeu to twenty-six years, r2-47 P<^r ^'^"'-5 from twenty-seven to thirty-six years, 4-37 per cent.; from tliirty-seven to forty-nine years, 6-9o CALCULI. per cent.; from fifty to seventy years, 22-G5 per cent.; from seventy to eighty years, 2-70,per cent. ' Mr. Coulson remarks that tables " showing the number of calculous persons at different periods of life do not show the liability of individuals to be attacked at these different ages." It is necessary to distinguish between absolute and relative num- bers of persons living at the several periods of life enumerated. Calculated in this manner, the tables would show that children and young persons are less liable to calculous disorders than has been commonly supposed, and that from twenty years ' and upwards the tendency goes on increasing in a remarkable manner to the end of life. (See Holmes's Sysi. of Surg. vol. iv. p. 443.) Or, as Sir H. Thompson says—" The proportion of elderly calculous patients to the existing population at their own ages is larger than the proportion of children afflicted is to the number of existing children." , ^ , , Characters of Lithic Acid Deposits and Calculi, Pure lithic acid is a perfectly white substance, but the lithic acid sand deposited in the urine will be found to consist of crystals of an amber or orange-red colour, from being impregnated or com- bined with the colouring matter of the urine. The more ordinary forms of these crystals are modifica- tions of the rhombic prism, in the shape of flat rhombic plates, often with the obtuse anglea rounded off ; or in lozenge-shaped plates convex on both sides. Or they may appear as sections of lozenge-shaped cylinders of considerable thickness. Another form is in thin oblong rectangular plates, this form being said to be most frequent when the urine is neutral or only slightly acid. The crystals are often very minute, and only discoverable by the aid of the microscope; but the larger ones are distinguishable by the naked eye, and the coarse _ forms will be found to consist of an aggregation ot i many crystals adhering together. For representa- ■ tions of the appearances presented by lithic acid 1 deposits, the reader is referred to the works ot : Goldin- Bird, Lionel Beale, Thudichum, and others who have written special treatises on the subject Lithic acid is soluble in the alkalies or alkaline carbonates. It is nearly insoluble in cold water, sparingly soluble in hot. One P'^' solution from 1,800 to 1,900 parts of boilmg water and 14,000 to 15,000 parts of water at 68 . ine watery solution faintly reddens litmus P^^pef- " is slightly more soluble in hydrochloric ac.d than in water; and soluble in strong sulphuric acid without decomposition. {Thudichm, FathoL of the Urine, 1868, p. 79.) , . nf all Lithate of ammonia, the most frequent of fUl urinary deposits, occurs as a fine an.orphous powd.^, or som'etimes, according to Dr. Goldmg B^d « minute spherules with crystals of uric a id pW- iecting from their surface. It varies m colow • oin pale yellow to pink, red, and .l'"^k-dust colour.' It is'more soluble than lithic ac.d and^ much more soluble in warm than m cold "rm Hence urine which is clear when P--J r^^hS posit a large quantity o^l''>'•■^'«^7l''rV^~ This will be dissolved again readdy by h^'^'- ^ , latter test is of great practical value, as it at o distinguishes lithates d'^P"^'.'^°^ .St P"^" phosphates, for which the paler vanet.es might P siblvbe mistaken. The addition of a.i ac.d tour co.,taini..glithateofammon.asc.paratestl.camn and causes the acid to be deposited in crjsWls.J