Bores heal sooner without thtin with mercury. But this conclii.Moii seems hardly allowable, because, as these faithful and impartial reporters have sensibly remarked, the ■2,827 sores treated with mercury may be fairly presumed to have partaken of the cliaracter of Hunter's cliancre in a greater proportion than the 1,940 primary sores treated without mercury. (See IIeniiui(j''s Alilitary Suiyeri/, p. 545.) Consequently, though the sores treated with mercury seem, on the average, to have healed more slowly than others treated with- out it; yet it is to be taken into the account that a large number of the first cases were ulcers with a hardened base and margin, and that if they had not had the mercurial treatment extended to them, it is possible their complete cure might generally have been still more tedious. As the evidence now stands, therefore, I conceive it right to employ mercury, witii moderation, for all sores on the penis having the characteristics of the Hunterian chancre and appearing after a suspicious con- nection. Yet I know, from cases which have been under me in University College Hospital, that the Hunterian chancre will often heal up quickly under the use of simple dressings. A consideration, however, which ought to have greater influence than the slowness or quickness of the cure of primary sores with and without mercury, is the question whether, upon the average, secondaiy symptoms are more frequent after the non-mercurial practice than the other On this most interesting point the reports vary, as, indeed, they do on almost every matter in the investigation, excepting the facts of the possi- bility of curing all forms of the venereal disease without mercury, the great rarity of any affection of the bones, and the general mildness of the secondary symptoms when that medicine is not employed. On all these points, the testimonies are strong and convincing. But, while Mr. Rose found secondary symptoms take place in one third of his cases treated without mercury (Med.- Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 422), the proportion in the York, and some other hospitals, was only about one-tenth. (Vol. cit. p. 559.) In the 1,940 cases of primary snres on the penis treated without mercury, in the army hospitals, between Dec. 1816 and Dec. 1818, there were only 96 instances of secondary symptoms of different sorts, or not more than l-20th. But the proportion of cases of secondary symptoms in the cases of primary ulcers treated with mercury was still smaller, and this in an important degree, being only 51 out of 2,827 cases, or about l-55th. Were it not necessary to make a considerable allowance for the probable circumstance of the Hunterian chancre prevailing most in the cases treated with mercury, a point admitted by Sir James M'Grigor and Dr. Franklin, we should here have a powerful and decisive evidence in favour of the general superiority of mercury for the prevention of secondary symptoms. Nor am 1 certain that the conclusion can be much weakened by the proba- bility of the difference here alluded to, because from the evidence of late brought to light, respect- ing the nature of the class of diseases which go under the name of syphilis, we have no right to infer that what has been called the true, or Hun- terian, ciiancre is more disposed than some other primary sores to occasion secondary symptoms. Indeed, Mr Ouiiitie declares; in the cases r<.- VENEREAL DISEASE. 9^5 ferred to in hia paper, tliat when mercury was not used, these symptoms more frequently followed the raised ulcer of tlie prepuce than the true character- istic chancre of syphilis affecting the gluns penis. (Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 577.) On the whole, as the reports now stand, and so far as I can judge from cases which I have seen myself, the secondary symptoms are more frequent when primary ulcers are promiscuously treated without mercury. But it by no means follows from this fact, that the way to have the smallest possible number of cases of secondary symptoms is to employ mercury in all instances of sores on the genitals. Until further data exist, I can- not venture to lay down other directions about the treatment of primary sores. It is with pleasure, however, that 1 subjoin the advice of other gentle- men, whose sentiments and talents deserve respect, though their opinions may not exactly agree with my own. " In every primary ulcer (says Dr. Hen- nen), I would give up the idea of using mercury at first, treating it as if it were a simple ulceration, by cleanliness, rest, and abstinence, and applying to it the most simple and mildest dressings. If the sore did not put on a healing appearance in a reasonable time, the extent of whicli must depend upon the circumstances of the patient, I should make use of more active dressings. But if, beyond all calculation, it remained open, I should certainly not sacrifice every consideration to a dislike of mercury, knowing how many persons have been se- riously benefited by a judicious and mild adminis- tration of that remedy." {O/i Military Surgery, 2nd ed. p. 518.) When primary ulcers resist com- mon means a certain time, Mr. Bacot would also have recourse to mercury. {On Syphilis, p. 69.) However, he does not approve of invariably post- poning that remedy until the latter criterion, viz. the backwardness of the sore to be healed by other methods, is afforded. Whenever the employment of mercury in this work is recommended, 1 am very far from wishing to be thought an advocate for pushing that me- dicine, as the phrase is. On the contrary, ex- perience has fully convinced me that, in no forms of chancre, nor in any other stages of the vene- real disease, is it proper to exhibit mercury in the unmerciful quantity, and for the prodigious length of time, vifhich custom, ignorance, and pre- judice used to sanction in former days. Violent salivations, at all events, ought to be for ever ex- ploded. In the year 1808, when I was an articled stu- dent at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, most of the venereal patients in that establishment were seen with their ulcerated tongues hanging out of their mouths ; the cheeks and gums ulcerated ; their faces prodigiously swelled ; and their saliva flow- ing out in streams. The wards being also not sufficiently ventilated, the stench was so great that they well deserved the appellation of fuul. Yet, notwithstanding mercury was thus pushed (as the favourite expression was), it was tlieu connnon to see many patients suffer the most dreadful of mu- tilations, in consequence of sloughing ulcers of the penis ; many unfortunate individuals whose noses and palates were lost ; and others who were afflicted with nodes, necroses, caries, and dreadful phagedenic sores. Happily, at the present day, this attachment to violent sal'vi!lions uo longer prevails ; simple