INFLAMMATION, general blood-Iettinjf wag carried to an injurious exces3, in the present day local blood-letting is too much'neglected. It is a most obvious, rational, and mild process ; and it imitates and seconds the elForts of nature by removing some of that blood which may be assumed to be impure, and by taking it from the part where it is in excess. " The local meiiits of abslracting blood are leeches, cupping, and scarifications. In order to apply leeches, the part should first be washed, and if they will not stick, a little milk or blood should be smeared on it, or some small punctures should be made with the point of a kncet; and the leeches should be well dried in a cloth. The best plan of stopping hcBmorrhage from leech-bites is to apply a small piece of matico leaf, or to dip small pellets of lint in tinct. ferri chloridi, or powdered alum, and press them on the holes for a few minutes. But in order to prevent dangerous bleeding, direc- tions should always be given that the leech-bites should be stopped before any patient is left for the night. Moreover, it will be prudent to apply them over some bone, so that pressure may be applied effectually. Cupping, when it can be adopted, is a more active measure, and relieves pain sooner than leeches. Punctures are of use in superficial in- flammations of the skin; incisions are of use when inflamed parts are covered with a dense, unyielding fascia, as in whitlow; or when there is great ten- sion, as-in phlegmonous erysipelas; or when the inflamed part is infiltrated with an irritating fluid, as in extravasation of urine, or with unhealthy' matter, as in carbuncle. " Cold is a valuable means of diminishing afflux of blood, and morbid heat. It may be applied by evaporation by means of a single piece of thin linen frequently changed and dipped into cold water or evaporating lotion, and care should be taken that the vapour may pass off freely, otherwise the cold lotion will soon be converted into a hot fomenta- tion. Or dry cold may be applied by means of india-rubber bags or bladders filled with ice, or frigoritic mixtures. Or by irrigation, as recom- mended by Dr. Macartney. The inflamed limb is to be placed in a trough or piece of oilcloth, with a piece of lint on the inflamed part. A large vessel of cold water being then placed on the table by the bedside, one end of a broad strip of cloth should be dipped in the water, and the other end (which shoulri be cut to a point) laid on the lint; and so the water will be carried in a constant, gentle stream down to the inflamed part. Dry cold applications are less irritating than wet; and india-rubber bags, or glass or metal bottles, less so than bladders. The surgeon must use his discretion as to the degree of cold. The possi- bility of causing sloughing must not be forgot- ten. Cold is well adiipted to inflammations of the head, and of the skin, joints, and external parts." If it act beneficially, it will give a sense of com- fort; if it irritate, or cause aching, shivering, or intense coldness of the limb, it must be given up —It presupposes heat in excess. The use of cold applications to wounds checks fermentative changes in the exuded liquids, as well as the abundance of the exudation, and they have always been preferred by military surgeons, as less likely to create suppuration and pytcmia. {Es- march on tlie Use of Cold in Surgery, New Svd. ooc. 11561.) ^ Dr. James Arnott has long advocated the tem- [631 porary application of intense cold as a preventive of threatened inflammation, as well as a speedy remedy for such external or accessible inflamma- tion as has been already established. Experi- menting upon the use of this agent as a local anajsthetic, Dr. Arnott remarked that not only was there no sloughing caused by the application of a frigorific to the skin during some minutes (as had been generally supposed), but that the redness, &c., which usually remains for some days on the site of the freezing differed from the redness of inflam- mation, (Contributions to Practical Medicine, by James Arnott, M.D., Lond. 1864.) "The truth is that although the condition produced by conge- lation resembles inflammation in the obvious cir- cumstance of the dilatation of the small arteries, and consequent redness of the part, it differs from it in several and much more important particulars. It is never followed by suppuration ; it never spreads or extends ; and, above all, it prevents and removes inflammations in parts subjected to "t. . . . The actual congelation of a part for a few minutes, as of the skin in erysipelas, does more than suspend its vitality. Amongst other organic changes produced by it, the nerves con- tinue more or less benumbed, and the blood-vessels which had been contracted or closed while the congelation lasted are afterwards expanded ; the latter effect proceeding probably from the loss of tonicity caused by their previous excessive stimu- lation. This enlargement of the vessels continues for several days, and constitutes a condition incom- patible with inflammation. ... It (congela- tion) has beeu used in almost all the external inflammations, comprising erysipelas and other skin diseases, ophthalmia (applied to the closed eyelid), bruises, sprains, inflammation of the lym- phatic glands of the neck and groin ; and, when it has been used properly, the immediate arrest of the disease has generally attested its efficacy." In the London Medical Gaxetie (March 9,1049), the same writer contributed his experience of the use of congelation in averting and curing er3'sipelas, and other surgical inflammations. Certain cases are recorded in detail, and the following conclu- sion drawn. " Of external infl animation conge- lation is a certain, speedy, safe, and agreeable remed)'." So far respecting cold as a means of controlling local changes, but we have seen that the accumu- lation of heat in the blood has the most disastrous effects on that fluid, and like many other patiiolo- gical conditions reacts and aggravates the very evils out of which it arises. As the most obvious antidote, cold hag from time to time been used, though from various reasons its use has never be- come common. Of all medicines few are so grate- ful as pure ice in lumps crunched in the mouth, to abate the restlessness and sickness of fever. Sponging the surface with water, just below blood heat, or vinegar and water, and combing the hair with a comb dipped in water, are refreshing to most fevered patients, and are useful even in agues and other cases in which greater degrees of cold could not bo borne ; for cold applications must never be allowed to cause shivering. At the beginning of the present century James Curria used cold water largely {Medical Rqwrts, 1(105), by way of affusion in typhus and other fevers ; it was largely used by military surgeons, and is highly spoken of by Datemiiii {On Ctttaueoun