SUPPURATION found once. It is not ceilain whether tluse pre- exist in the serum or in the cell-walls of the cor- puscles. Choudriii probably comes from cartilage when the pus is connected with joints, the glutin from the gelatinous connective tissue. So glutin is found in leucocytliasmic blood from the nniltitudc of white corpuscles therein contained. {Svhcrer.) By rubbing pus corpuscles with quartzose sand and exhausting witli ether, protagon may be ob- tained. The quantity of phosphorus sometimes found in pus is explained by the presence of this body. The fixed fatty acids, palmitic and stearic, sometimes separate from acid pus after standing ; they appear in a crystalline form and in consider- able abundance. In fresh weakly alkaline pus (the normal condition) these exist as soaps. Pus serum, alter the addition of acetic acid, forms on its sur- face a collection of oil drops (oleic acid). The cholestearin contained iu pus separates in pretty rhombic plates. The volatile fatty acids only appear after considerable change in the pus, either in the body or out of it. They give rise to the strong acid reaction already alluded to. H. Fischer, by distilling normal pus of a weak alkaline reac- tion with tartaric acid, failed to obtain any of thera ; but when the pus was either very acid or very alkaline, he thus obtained formic acid, butyric acid, &c. The name of chlorodinio acid was given by Biideker to a substance existing in tlie pus of phosphorus necrosis, and of congestive abscesses, as well as in cancer juice. It is separated with some difficulty, and gives even when very dilute with chlorine water a rose-red colour; when more concen- trated, a darker red. The reaction is not unconnnon with other decaying animal substances. Some- times pus itself will be reddened with chlorine water. Bilirubin and the bile acids are found in the pus of jaundiced persons, sugar in that of diabetics. The dark orange or brovvn colour occasionally' as- sumed by pus is not due to bilirubin, but to some other uninvestigated colouring matter. (Kuhne.) The frequently observed blue colour of pus de- pends, according to LUcke, on the presence of a kind of vibrio which grows on suppurating surfaces. This explains the fact that healthy wounds can be made to produce blue pus by placing on them a small quantity of blue material removed from another sore. The blue substance (pyocyanin) is soluble in chloroform, whence it may be made to separate by dilution in blue needle-shaped crystals. This blue is reddened by acids and restored by alkalies, like that of litmus. It is destroj'ed by chlorine, fuming nitric acid, and ozonised oil of turpentine. In chloroform it after a time becomes green, and then yellow, changing, according to Fordos, into pyoxanthose, a substance reddened by acids and turned vinlet by alkalies. (c) Vital Piopeiiies. — Besides phj'sical and chemical qualities, pus is, at first, a living thing, and, as such, possesses properties other than those that belong to the dead fluid as it is sub- mitted to the microsciipe and test tube. M'hjitever may be our ideas on the nature of life, and whether we say, with Hughes Bennett, that the formation of pus is due to nmlecular aggregation—or, with Vircliow, to growth from pre-existing c(]r|)uscles or, with Meale, to the overgrowth of germinal matter ^—pus must be considered as a living thing at first, althotigh it soon loses its life if exi)oscd to cold or ?licniical agents. It ranks with the white blood cor- puscles, the younger mucous, epithelial and cuticu- 640 lar cells, and with other embryonic particles. True It is an abortive form, but, as was pointed out by Sir E. Home (On Ulcers, Land. 1801, pp. 35 cl seq.). It has in itself in an early stage the poten- tiality of development. Pus is one form assumed by those minute living masses which are called granulation cells ; and these are indistinguishable from white blood corpuscles. (Paget, Surgical Pa- tliologij, hy Turner, 2nd ed,, Lmid. 1863, p. 173 et seq.) As Virchow says, the difference between pus and white blood corpuscles is one of origin, place, and function, rather than of visible structure (Cellular Pathologij, hy Chance, Lecture 7); the illustrious pathologist H. Lebert also declares that, as to visible properties, " leur spe'cificite' n'est pas absohie," and that reason and good sense must be called in to give their stamp to inferences from microscopical observation. (rraili d'A7ialomie pathAogique, Paris, 1857, foL, tome i. p. 45.) a. Of the properties of living matter which recent pus possesses, we may first particularise 'moi-c7ne7it. " Pus," says Beale, " which u usually examined, consists of dt-ad, not of living corpuscles." Their spherical, sharp, well-defined outline is owing to coagulation having occurred upon the surface. Thus the so-called membrane or cell-wall of the pus corpuscle has resulted. In real living pus, in many specimens not a single corpuscle of this form is to be detected. Every corpuscle exhibits little buds, ofi'sets, or protrusions, and these are in constant motion, like that of the amoeba. The same, says Beale, is the case with the living particles of vac- cnie lymph ; with the mucous corpuscle, young epithelial ceils, and the germinal matter of ova. This movement, says Beale, is not ciliary or contractile, but primary and vital. It is manifested by these corpuscles, which are " free masses of living germinal matter, destitute of any firm cell wall, embedded in a fluid medium, and free to move in every direction." It can be witnessed by placing a very small quantity of recently secreted pus on a warmed slide, covering it ver'y carefully with thin glass, and interposing a few hairs to prevent pressure. P. Besides movement, pus possesses power of growth and multiplication. " The smallest par- ticle detached from a pus corpuscle is capable," says Beale, "of absorbing nutrient material and growing -nto a corpuscle, having all the properties of that whence it was derived." (The Microscope in Practical Medicine, hy Lionel S. Beale l\l H F.R.S., 3rd ed., Lond. "1867, p. C4.) ' 7. If pus lives, grows, and multiplies, it must have the power of absorption and assimilation and It may be taken for granted that its normal p'abii Inrii 18 the liquor sanguinis. But there is little " doubt that pus in the normal or development stnce IS capable of absorbing the material of, and of disiii- • tegratmg any living tissue, within the interstices of which It is developed. This happens in the ordinary process of an abscess to the surface S. These vital properties of pns often continue to exist, though in a latent state, when particles of pus (winch, of course, may be much smaller th-in the ordinary glohules) are transferred from one p.;irt of the body to another, or to miotlier indi- vidual, or lifted into vapour into the air. These living particles maybe infectious and contagious Implanted in a fresh mucous membrnne, they mnv there grow and multiply, and may do two tliinirs beside?—communicate to the ctisting epitli, Hum