OVARIOTOMY. 421 separation of the tumor ; after which the pedicle is dropped into the abdominal cavitj' and the wound closed. Grave objections, however, against this practice are the possibility of internal hcemorrhage and its accompanying dangers, and the difficulty of finding and securing the bleeding pedicle in the depth of the abdominal cavity after having re- opened the wound. This would be especially difficult if hffimorrhage occurred after some lapse of time. The writer used the ^craseur once and successfully; but he has not ventured on it again, for fear that it might prove untrustworthy and internal bleeding occur. This danger may be prevented by tying a strong ligature below the ecraseur chain, before separating the cyst and dropping the pedicle into the abdominal cavity. But then it would be only a modification of the former methods of ligatures, and open to the same objections. 4. The cautery alone would almost certainly fail to stop such large vessels as are frequently met with in a pedicle. So might the e'craseur alone, or the crushing which precedes the division by the ecraseur. But ilie combination of the crushing and the cautery is certainly efficacious in a considerable proportion of cases. Mr. Clay, of Birmingham, introduced the practice and carried it out by his adhesion clamp and hot irons, both for dividing adhesions and omentum. The practice has been extended to the pedicle, and it is claimed for it that in most cases it effectually stops hasmor- rhage during the operation and prevents it after- wards, leaving only a very thin layer of burnt tissue at the end. The burnt tissue is probably more easily absorbed than the strangulated extremity of the pedicle after ligatures, and is not so liable to produce septiceemia. This method is of most value in cases when the pedicle is broad, thick, and short, under which circumstances the application of the clamp is very difficult, and has sometimes to be abandoned. Notwithstanding these great ad- vantages, which deservedly recommend the cautery, its use is sometimes attended by serious drawbacks. Vessels not unfrequently bleed on opening the blades of the clamp, and a repetition of the whole tedious proceeding or the use of ligatiu'es are neces- sary before the pedicle can be returned into the abdomen with safety. The instrument used for securing and compres- sing the pedicle is Mr. Clay's (of Birmingham) adhesion clamp, modified by Mr. B. Brown, Mr. Harper, and the writer. Having adjusted the clamp and tightly compressed the pedicle between its blades, which are kept closed by means of a screw, the tumor is cut off a short distance above the clamp. The projecting portion of the pedicle is dried, and held with a forceps during the application of the cautery. In order to protect the surrounding parts from the hot iron, wet towels or flannel, placed ijetween the clamp and the abdomen, were first employed; but they often prove insufficient. The writer has lately used two shields made of talcum (neutral silicate of ahiminia, Mg.O., Si.03, a perfect non-conductor of heat), which, when [.laced around the pedicle, will protect the skin and any part likely to be injured. The cautery-irons, which are wedge-shaped with a blunt edge, should be heated to a dull red heat, and pressed slowly and firmly across the protruding portion of the pedicle, imtil this is burnt off clean down to the surface of the dump. This done, the blades are cautiously opened, the operator and his assistants being pre- pared to seize the pedicle, and prevent it from slipping into the abdominal cavit}', in case any bleeding should occur. Having convinced himself that there is no bleeding, the operator gently dis- engages the pedicle from the blade, and allows it to drop into the abdominal cavity. Mr. Clover has recently introduced a very useful cautery of pure silver, heated by burning spirit. Dr. Wright has devised an ingenious clamp, by which, before opening the blades, a succession of steel bars can be lifted by means of screws, and the pedicle thus partially exposed, in order to dis- cover and to secure any bleeding vessel without disengaging the whole pedicle from the grasp of the clamp after the application of the cautery. 5. By far the safest and most simple treatment of the pedicle is that by means of the clamp. None of the objections raised against the other methods can be applied to the clamp. It effec- tually arrests hsemorrhage, secures the end of the pedicle outside the wound, and keeps it con- tinually under the observation and control of the surgeon. But in cases where the pedicle is very short, so that an undue, painful, and dangerous traction on the uterus or broad ligament would be caused by keeping the end of the pedicle with the clamp outside, or when the pedicle is so broad or thick that a clamp of moderate size would prove insufficient, one of the other methods just described should be preferred. The credit of suggesting and first using a metal clamp in the treatment of the pedicle is due to Mr. Hutchinson, who used a clamp very much like a common pair of carpenter's calipers. The writer at first used a clamp he had contrived like Ricord's fenestrated forceps for circumcision. Thfr instrument he now uses consists of two strong steel bars, one grooved, the other with a rough bevelled blunt edge fitting into the groove. They work on a hinge, and are kept closed by means of a screw acting on a steel arc. The clamp is sup- plied with two strong handles, one to each bar, fastened by a spring-lock, and easily removed after the operation. The clamp is passed around the pedicle, and is then compressed by means of the handles and fixed by the screw, care being taken not to enclose any- thing but the pedicle. The tumor is cut away and the handles removed. The pedicle with the clamp outside the wound comes to lie as near to the lower end of the incision as can be effected without trac- tion, and the edges of the wound are brought in con- tact around it. Any superfluous portion of the pedicle ■ protruding beyond the clamp is cut off, and the remainder touched with solid perchloride of iron or its solution, by which the tissue is tanned like a piece of leather, and preserved from decomposition. Most of the objections which have been raised against the extra-abdominal treatment of the pedi- cle and the use of the clamp are either groundless or trivial. It is said to be very painful; butitisnot rare to see a good deal of traction with very little- pain, and much more severe pain in cases where the ligature is used than in clamp cases. So with sick- ness; there has been as much or more after the ligature or cautery thiin after the clamp. It is said to set up fetid discharge and poison the wound or the patient; and so it does if proper care be not taken. But if the strangulated part of the pedicle which projects beyond the damp be well saturated