VENEREAL DISEASE. 917 Paris, experiments were pulilioly miide by M. Ilicnrd on dogs, rabbits, guinea-pigs, cats, and pigeons; and on all these animals the results were negative. " All the e.xperiments, repeated in every possible mode of inoculation, and infec- tion, and with every requisite precaution, were made in every instance with pus, which, in the human subject, had given positive results, so that fnira these experiments, juined with others pre- viously known, the conclusion may be drawn, that the inocuiable principle of syphilis is restricted to the human subject, and cannot be transmitted to the brute creation." (See Ph. Ricord, Mai. ven. p. 78.) [It will be seen by the sequel that this opinion was erroneous, and that M. Auzeas Turenne has full)' proved that the venereal virus may be transferred from man to animals, and from them to man again, without change or alteration.] According to Mr. Hunter, the venereal poison is commonly in the form of pus, or some other secretion. In most cases it excites an inflamma- tion, which (to use his language) is attended with a specific mode of action, different from all other actions attending inflammation, and accounting for the specific quality in the matter. The formation of matter, though a general, is not a constant attendant on this disease ; for, in- flammation, produced by the venereal poison, sometimes does not terminate in suppuration. But, if Mr. Hunter's sentiments are correct, it is the matter produced, whether with or without in- flammation, which alone contains the poison. Hence, a person, having the venereal irritation in anj' form, not attended with a discharge, cannot communicate the disease to another. In proof of this doctrine, he states, that though married men often contract this disease, and continue to cohabit with their wives, even for weeks, 3'et, in the whole of his practice, he never once found that the com- plaint was communicated under such circum- stances, except when connection had been con- tinued after the appearance of the discharge. The late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, however, gave it as his opinion, that a man might communicate lues venerea after all the symptoms of the disease had been removed, and he was apparently in per- fect health. (See Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. vii.) Mr. Hey also joins in the belief of the possibility of the venereal disease being communicated through the blood of the mother to the foetus in utero, though in what manner the infection is transmitted is a question not yet entirely settled. An universal desquamation of the cuticle ; a hoarse, squeaking voice ; copper-coloured blotches ; a scaly eruption upon the chin ; an unnatiinil redness of the anus; are the common symptoms which he sets down as proofs of syphilis in very young infants. As these complaints yield to small doses of the chlo- ride of mercury, or of hydrargyrum cum cretd, and either the nurse, or parent, has liad some venereal disease at no very distant period, the cases are now usually admitted to be syphilitic. The venereal poison would appear to be very irregular in its effects, different persons being va- riously affected by it ; and hence, probably, one cause of a great deal of the uncertainty yet pre- vailing about its distinguishing characters. Thus, as Mr. Hunter mentions, two men sometimes have connection with the same woman ; both catch the disease ; but one may have very severe, the other exceedingly mild, symptoms. He knew ol an instance, in whicli one man gave the disease to dilFerent women, some of whom had it with great severity, while the others suiFered but slightly. On the same point, I find an interesting statement, made by Dr. Hennen, in his Obs. on Si/philis in the Military Hospitals hi Scotland :—" We have had (says he) frequent opportunities of remarking two or more sores of different kinds, existing at the same time : an irregularly-shaped diffused sore ; an elevated sore, covered with a light- coloured slough, as if a bit of chamois leather had been stuck on by some tenacious substance ; a groove, or streak along the glans, as if made by a scraping instrument, filled with purulent matter ; and the true and perfect chancre, according to Mr. Hunter's definition ; or the true syphilitic ulcer, according to Mr. Carmichael. This last has, in some cases, occupied the glans ; in some, the prepuce ; while the sores of another descrip- tion have been on the same part close beside it, or on another part at a distance. Three of these cases I particularly selected for examination and public demonstration, at the Castle Hospital ; in one, the Hunterian chancre was on the glans, and a sore, without any hardness, on the prepuce ; in another, it was on the prepuce, and a simple ulcer on the clans ; in the third, a most perfect specimen of Hunterian chancre occupied the in- ternal prepuce, close to the corona glandis ; and, at about half an inch from it, near the fra2num, but farther from the glans, was an elevated ulcer. In all these cases the Hunterian chancre healed (without mercury) several days before the others. " Soldiers (says Dr. Hennen) are gregarious in their amours, and we have frequently several men at the same time in hospital infected by the same woman, with whom they have had connection in very rapid succession ; some of tliem have had one kind of sore, some another, ajid some both." {Pri7iciptes of Military Surgery, ed. 2, p. 525.) But, if these facts, which agree with my own observations, be decidedlj' adverse to the theory of a plurality of venereal poisons (see CarmichaeCs Essays on the Venereal Diseases, ^c), they still leave difficulties, which cannot be entirely solved by reference to peculiarities of constitution and different states of the health, because no explana- tion, on this principle, would account for a man having at the same time, upon the penis, two or three different kinds of ulcers, apparently e.xcited by one cause. Neither will any difference of tex- ture afford the needed explanation, though the utmost latitude be given to the doctrine, that the appearance and progress of sores are considerably modified by the nature of the parts. It is only necessary to consider the above passage from Dr. Hennen's work, to perceive that the par- ticular texture, whether prepuce, skin, glans, or corona glandis, does not always communicate to sores one invariable character, even when they arise, as the evidence would incline one to suppose, as nearly as possible under the same circumstances and from the same source of infection. Authors of high reputation still entertain the conviction that the same woman, having connec- tion with several men, may connnunicate to some iif them chancres, to others gonorrhoea, and again buboes to others. This belief was adopted by Fatjre, Pressavain, the late M. Cullerier, and has been subscquoitly professed by MM. Capuron Ijagneau, Gilbert, &c. From this view the infa'-