652 SURGERY disease, the absiirdity of the distinctions now under consideration is still more apparent, and the in- separahle connection between the interior and ex- terior of our frame more obvious. Internal causes produce external disease, as we see in erj'sipelas, carbuncle, nettle-r.ish, gout, oedema; while ex- ternal agencies affect inward parts, as in catarrhal rheiimatic affections, in various inflammations of the chest and abdomen." Others have defined surgery to be the mechani- cal part of phya\c," quod in ihempeia mediaiiicum" but, although this has obtained the assent of so eminent a surgeon as M. Richerand {D.'cl. des Sciences Med. t. v. p. 85), I believe few on this side of the water will be of his opinion. Tlie late Mr. J. Pearson observed : " Many people have imagined that, when a man has learnt the art of dressing sores, of applying bandages, and per- forming operations with a little dexterity, he must necessarily be an accomplished surgeon. If a con- clusion so gross and fallacious had been confined to the vulgar and illiterate, the progress of scien- tific surgery would have suffered little interruption ; but if young minds are directed to these objects, as the only important matters upon which their faculties are to be exercised, if the grnss in- formations of sense constitute the sum of their knowledge, little more can be expected from such a mode of study than servile imitation or daring empiricism. Indeed, some people have affkiCted to oppose surgery as an art, to medicine as a science ; and if their pretensions were justly founded, the former would certainly be degraded to a mere mechanical occupation. But it is not very easy to comprehend the grounds of such a distinction. The internal and external parts of the body are governed liy the same general laws during a state of health ; and if an internal part be attiicked with inflammation, the appearances and effects will bear a gre.it similarity to the same disease situated externally; nor are the indications of cure, in general, materially different. If by science, therefon', be meant ' a knowledi;e of the l.iws of nature,' he who knows what is known of the order and method of nature, in the production, progress, and termination of surgical diseases, merits as justly the title of a scientific practitioner as the well-eduoaied physician. The practical parts of physic and surgery are very frequently disunited; but their theory and principles are in divisible, since they truly constitute one and {Principl s of Surgeri), the same science. Preface.) As a learned Professor notices, the limits be- tween physic and surgery are not very precisely marked, and the respective functions of the phy- sician and surgeon, long as those names have existed, are still but very inaccurately defined. "The most superficial acquaintance with the symptoms, progress, and termination of the various morbid affections, to which the human body is liable, must be sufficient to convince every un- prejudiced inquirer that there is but a slight fo\m- dation, if indeed there be any, for this distinction in the nature of the diseases which these practi- tioners are required to treat, or in tlie modes of treatment by wiiich the diseases themselves may brt cured or relieved. Experience has long sliown, tliat the use of internal remedies is not only re- quired in a large proportion of the diseases, wliicli arc legarded as strictly chirurgical, but also, that there are few diseases which come under the care of the physician in which morbid affections re- quiring the manual aid, or practical skill of the surgeon, do not frequently occur. Tlie treatment of febrile and internal inflam- matory diseases, it will be allowed, belongs exclu- sively to the province of the physician wherever the distinction between physician and surgeon has been introduced and is rigidly observed; yet, in some species of fevers, and in all internal inflammatory diseases, blood-letting is often the principal, if not the oidy, remedy that is required. But this is an operation, however urgent the necessity for it be, which from engagement the physician cannot, and, from the fear of degrading his province of the pvofession, will not perform. Retention of urine not unfrequently takes place in symptomatic febrile diseases, and this is an affection which does not always yield to the use of internal remedies; but it is an affection also, from the painful uneasiness which it immediately excites, as well as from the danger which it threatens, that will not admit of delay. When internal remedies, therefore, fail in relieving the patient, the urine must be speedily drawn off by means of a chirurgical operation; otherwise in- flammation, mortification, and rupture of the bladder, must necessarily ensue. Febrile and internal inflammatory affections terminate not unfrequently in the formation of fluids, which it is necessary to let out by a chirurgical operation; and abscesses, fistulous openings, and ulcers are formed, vvhich require the aid of the surgeon. In patients, also, affected with severe febrile dis- eases, from being long fixed down to their beds in one position, some of the parts of the body, up <n which they rest, occasionally acquire a disposition to mortify; larger or smaller portions of the skin and subjacent cellular membrane becoming dead, separate from the living parts, and sores are formed, wiiich are but too often the subject of unavailing chirurgical practice. To employ, in the different stages of this species of mortification, from its first commencement to the complete separation of the dead parts, and the formation of a new skin, the appropriate external and internal remedies, re- quires a greater share of chirurgical skill than can reasonably be expected in those who make a pro- fession solely of physic. Unhappy-, therefore, must be the lot of that patient who, in circum- stances similar to those which I have described, has the misfortune to have for his sole medical at- tendant a physician ignorant of surgery. " But (continues Professor Thomson), if a knowledge of surgery be necessary to tlie student who intends to practise pliysie, the knowledge of physic, oil the other hand, is no less necessary to him who intends to devote his attention exclusively to the profession of surgery; for, indeed, there are few chirurgical diseases which are not, in some period or another of their existence, accompanied by morbid affections of the same nature with those which fall properly, and most frequently, under the care of the physician. It will only lie neces- sary to mention, as examples of these affections,- tlie symptomatic fever, which attends inflanmm- tioii, wiietluT this affection has been induced by external injury, or has occurred spontaneous y lu the body fiom internal disease; the hectic fever supervening to long-continued processes of suppura- tion; the febrile state, and other morbid afteciioiis,