172 LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. hair probes, as the puacla will admit, together with suitable constitutional treatment. The inflamma- tion in those cases often varies in intensity, sub- siding and reappearing, and such subsidiarj' means do often add to comfort. The patient, too, by frequently pressing out the mucus, may often suc- ceed in abating his annoyance and keeping it in check. But, nevertheless, it almost always happens that the distress continues, and is very apt sooner or later to end in abscess. The insertion of a style or tube through an opening made in front of the sac below the tendo oculi, has been the last and common resource in obstinate cases, where the disease has worn out the ■ patience of the suiTerer and the surgeon. It is an expedient, so objectionable in itself, as never to be resorted to till the last moment. It is unsightl)--, especially in females; it is painful, and the patient has constantly to wipe away the discharge escaping by the orifice. The puncture made to admit the style is also frequently followed by the formation of an abscess outside the sac, spreading under the orbicu- laris muscle and apt to grow into that serious com- plication, a sinuous ulcer, for the cure of which free division, and sometimes excision, of the over- lying skin is necessary. During several years, in which I was in the habit of using the style, I studied its inconveniences and devised a remedy for some of them. In particular, I found it desirable to make the first opening large enough to allow of the free escape of the discharges from the sac, by the side of the neck of the style; for, if the orifice were made too small, an abscess between the sac and the skin was very prone to follow. But this large preliminary opening was apt to allow the head of the style to bury itself in the sac, an inconveni- ence not always obviated by a thread secured by plaster to the forehead, and I therefore came to use, in the first instance, a style so long as to rest on the floor of the nose, while the head just stood outside the orifice in the skin. The length was adapted in each case to the requisite depth of the parts, ascertained by a probe, the styles being made of extreme length and shortened, at the moment, by cutting pliers, and the lower end smoothed on a hone. As the inflammation following the -puncture subsided, and the orifice gradually contracted with the progress of the cure, the length of the style was from time to time diminished, so as to keep the head upon the skin. But I have now in ordi- nary cases altogether abandoned the use of the style inserted by the skin. It is found necessary, by those who use the style, to continue it for pe- riods varying from six weeks to six months, and some patients seem to wear it permanently. It the condition of the parts allows of its removal, either the orifice heals or remains fistulous. 11 it heals, and a relapse of the sac inflammation occurs (no unusual thing) the whole process has to be repeated: a fistulous opening is a continual annoyance, ine expedient to which some surgeons have been lea of introducing a style or tube by the sk.n, and burying it in the sac and nasal duct, '''^ skin over it, has been an attempt to escape f o n ■ the annoyances of the external openmg, b it sud nietallic substances usually act sooner or later a foreign bodies, causing abscess and the utmost difficulty in extracting the oftendn.g cause. Ut this I have had several examples. . , , , The inconveniences of the style are indeed such that it is seldom resorted to till the lust moment, when pus has formed in the sac, or perhaps an abscess is threatening or has burst, the surgeon and patient being almost equally unwilling to have re- course to it, and wasting their time on the temporising and palliative measures first alluded to, which sel- dom efltect a cure, or do more than keep the annoy- ance in check. Influenced by these considerations, and having in view the perfectly innocent result of laying open the punctum where it was everted, I began as early as 1851, to slit it up as far as the caruncle in all cases of lachrymal obstruction, and have since, by degrees, arrived at a method of treating almost all such obstructions without opening the skin at all. In fact, I have found it possible to treat the greater number of cases, mechanically, through the upper or lower canaliculus thus opened at the punctum, by passing probes of suitable size downwards into the nose, thus commanding the entire length of the passages, and not being limited, as by the old method of the style, to occlusions of the nasal duct. In this way I have arrived at some facts, not previously ascertained, as to the history of these obstructions, and have adapted the treatment to them respectively. I have avoided the inconveniences of the opening in the skin, and have established at the very commencement of the treatment a permanent opening, unseen and at- tended by no inconvenience, through which the use of the treatment by probes can, at any time, be at once resumed in the event of relapses. In the course of my investigations, I have kept constantly in view the analogy of these obstructions with those of the urinary passages; they are in many respects closely allied and mutually illus- trative; and I have borrowed from our experience of urethral strictures, some hints applicable to the treatment of those of the tear-ducts. Before the pro- posal to slit up the punctum, some anatomists may have been aware that the canaliculi were capacious ducts, large enough to admit an ordinary probe; but, certainly, surgeons took no account of that important fact. They have been syringed, and probes have been passed down them (I had done it a hundred times myself), but the instruments era- ployed were only such minute ones as the puncta would admit, namely, of the size of a horse-hair. It m.ay be even true that such probes have been passed into the nose, but their effect, even then, can have been only such as would be produced on an urethral stricture, if the surgeon were restricted to the use of the smallest urethral bougie ; they may have passed the stricture, but can have done little to dilate or cure it. When I first began to slit up the puncta I became aware that the canaliculi were naturally oapacious enough to admit a probe of one-twentieth of an inch diameter or more, and finding, not un- frcquently, that strictures existed in the canalicub, sometimes about the middle, but oftener close to the sac, I had a series of probes constructed, reach- ing from a fine hair-probe (No. 1) to one of one- twentieth of an inch diameter (No. 6). For con- venience in use, I have three probes, the six ends of which give the six sizes required, and the larger of which are so bent as to facilitate their passage through the nasal duct, as hereafter to be noticed. In the great majority of cases of sac-obstruction, a simple epiphora precedes for a considerable period the more inflammatory stages; there is regurgitation only of tears at first, afterwards of mucus and of