C9-2 UTERUS, RETROVERSION AND RETROFLEXION OF Thus Rokitansk}' thinks the atrophy of the internal L J " — J ^. — orifice is primary, Virchow thinks it secondary. Clinical observation proves that in the majority of it\stance8, at any rate, there are no adhesions. The fundus can generally be lifted up to its normal position by reversing the sound. Again, the fre- quency of cure under Hodge's pessary proves tlie same thing. Nor can it be admitted that Roki- tansky's theory is more than occasionally true. Retrodexion is undoubtedly frequently first ob- served to follow labour immediately, that is, before uterine catarrh can have set in. The mechanism in these cases is simply this:—The heavy fundus, being in a flaccid state, falls back partly by its gravity, partly by being forced down under the ])resfure of the intestines. In such cases, involu- tion becoming impeded, catarrh will almost always ensue; and from long-continued angulation, the tissues at the seat of flexi(m will undergo some amount of atrophy. It is this altered state of the tissues of the cerv'ix, combined with the increased ■weight and liulk of the fundus, that makes resto- ration to the normal position so difficult and tedious. The terminations of this displacement in the gravid womb are :—I. Death by rupture of the bladder. This is very rare. 2. Death by gan- grene of the uterus or other parts compressed. 'J'his is also extremely rare. 3. Dr. Arthur Farre says (Article, Uterus, Todd's Cycloywdia of Atia- The sequelae of this displacement when rc-position cannot be effected are usually premature expulsion of the ovum, or sloughing of the uterine parietcs, and slow discharge of the ci ntents by fis- tulous openings into the vagina, rectum, or blad- der." Abirtion undoubtedly is not uncommon, and this, whether re-position be effected or not. But there is reason to believe that some of the few cases in which parts of the embryo have been discharged by fistulous openings were in_ reality not cases of retroversion, but of extra-uterine ges- tation (See a case by Guichard, Rev. Tlierap. du Midi, 1857). 4. Death by blood-poisoning, the matter which should be excreted by the kidney being retained in the system. This condition is usuiiTly called urffimia;'but since it is not clear that the noxious element is urea alone, a better term, because more comprehensive and less abso- lute, is urin£emia. This I believe to be the most frequent cause of a fatal termination. It was the chief cause in four fatal cases observed by myself. C. Braun relates {Clin, dcr Gclmrisk.)a. case which ended fatally under eclamptic attacks in conse- quence of Bright's degeneration of kidneys, and secondary ursemia. In many ca=es, conjoined with uriuBBmia, there is disease of the bladder, such as intense congestion, inflammation, even sloughing of the mucous coat (Haussniann, A/omctssch. /. Gchirtsk., 18G8). 5. Peritonitis, which may be fatal, or which may end in ad- hesions. In none of the four fatal cases seen by mvself was there peritonitis. 1 am disposed to con- elude that death by urinremia and the shock of pain usually anticipates the outbreak of peritonitis. Peritonitis is a later event. Mr. Misley relates (Medical Times and Gazette, 185,5) a case in which, after re-position, the patient died twenty days later of peritonitis. Adhesions of intestines were formed, and the ureters were distended four- fold. In some cases, no doubt, where post-mortem examination has not been made, peritonitis has bi'cn inferred from the intense pain suffered daring life. But this sign is fallacious, since in cases where peritonitis had been so diagnosed, post-mortem examination refuted the diagnosis. 6. Recovery by re-position, spontaneous or chirurgical, is per- haps the most frequent termination. 7. Recovery is occasionally effected by the safety-valve process, of partial outgrowth of the uterus upwards into the abdominal cavity. If abortion do not occnr during the acute stage i of the symptoms, it may still follow re-position, ■ by some days or weeks. But in a large proportion of cases, after re-position, gestation goes on to tenn.; After labour the uterus is very liable to fall back,; either immediately or in a few days, disposing to hcemorrhage, primary or secondary. Remaining re-1 troflexed, the symptoms of retroflexion of the non- pregnant womb of course ensue. Amongst the remote effects, -vesico-vaginal fistulae, chronic catarrh of the bladder, disease of the kidneys, chronici catarrh of the uterus, may be observed. The Diagnosis.—The conditions most frequentlyi leading to error or doubt are: retro-uterine haimatocele; pelvic cellulitis or peritonitis ; fibroid tumors in the posterior wall of the uterus ; a sinaU ovarian tumor engaged in Douglas' sac; and some forms of extra-uterine gestation. 1 have known the first condition several times to be mistaken for retroversion. The history and the physical sig concur in leading astray. In both cases there ni; be a clear history or suspicion of gestation to thre or four months, distress in the pelvis, with reten tion of urine come on more or less suddenly, the uteri is felt high and close behind the symphysis, audi there is a spherical smooth tumor filling the hollow of the sacrum, projecting the posterior wall of th vagina forwards. The diflferentiation is made ou first by passing the catheter, then, whilst the for finger of the left hand is in the vagina, on or jus behind the os uteri, depressing the right han deeply into the pelvic cavity about the symphysis to feel for the uterus. At three months' ges tion, the fundus should be easily felt above th pelvic brim, between the two hands. Absenc from its proper place makes it highly probabl that the tumor felt by vagina and rectum is th displaced uterus. The part felt by vagina is ver' painful. The partial retroversion, in which a pa of the gravid uterus grows out of the pelvic cayit is more difficult. But here the pregnancy will more advanced, and parts of the child or Ice heart sounds may be made out in the abdomei If the case be retro-uterine hematocele, a soli body—the uterus-may be felt between the t examining hands, and the uterus sound will? upwards and forwards close behind the abdomin walls towards the umbilicus. I" these ens whether there have been pregnancy or not, n uterus is generally somewhat enlarged, s» " sound will go three inches or more. Ihis c pletely demonstrates that the "terus 'S push bodily forwards by something behind it vv have then to determine what this , A haimatocele is rarely strictly limited o the pel cavity; still more rarely docs it f hollow so completely as the rcti^vertcd uterus portion rises into the abdomina cavi y; ai.a have existed for some days, it will be J thus simulate a fibroid of the " .^j phlegmon. Tlie os uten poJUs do«.^^ low and easily reached. XHe