WOUNDS. 1029 to wounds, nnd its good efTeots, ns contrasted with oti er more modern applications, have beini n centlv extolled by Dr. Keriier, who lias found no rcmed v for Granulating surfaces so good as one composed of 2 lbs. !! ounces of turpentine diuested for a week in a bath at a temperature of 7o° cent, with 6'i drachms of bicarbonate of soda, and 18 pints (im- perial) of water, and then filtered. This forms an emulsion, nnd is applied on lint. Sever.il layers of clntli saturated with this, and covered with oiled ."ilk, are put over the wound, and left on (being, however, moistened with sou e of the mixture everv six hours) for twelve hours. If the contusion has been great, he recommends that cold irrigation bi' employed for a few days before the application of the turpentine is made. Lime water alone, or with mercury, long had a popular reputati(Ui as a !"cal dressing to foul sores. 'J'lie famous " Aqua phagiedenica," described by 1 leister, consisted of lime water and corrosive sub- limate. It is mainly to tlie researches of Reveil that we owe a knowledge of the antiseptic power of iodine and bromine. Lastly, the actual and potential cauteries and nitrate of silver (Higginbotham) have been applied to wounds, in order to diuiiuish their absorption and disinfect their sinface. Such applications, liowi ver, are now-a-days rarely m; de, and only in very exceptional circumstances. 3. The thorough drainage of open wounds has engaged the attenlicm of all practical surgeons. The elastic perforated tubes of Chassaignac have been found very tiaeful for this purpose. They are the modern improvement on the ''pipes," " tubes," " tents," "• sidons," &c., of the ancients. It was in 1859 that Chassaignac first published his account of these appliances. As injections can be made through them a double end is often served by their introduction. They are somewhat apt to render the orifice through which they pass fistulous, and are so far limited in the period when they can be retained with advantage. When the surgeon fashions the wound he takes ca e to render it dependent, and so placed, as re- gards the tissues involved, that it will allow of the continuous free escape of all secretions, and what ever dressings he employs he makes provision that this important end is fulfilled. 4. In order to keep the wouni' clea i, moist, and covered, "water-dressing" and " n-rigation " are frequently used. Water was used fri m very early times as an application to wounds, as it was be- lieved to be especially appropriate, and " holy water " at one time was believed to be especially efficacious. It were well for surgery if popular belief had continued to rely on water-dressing, to the exclusion of the filtliy poultices " the very name of which," as Liston says, "is associated with putrefaction and nastiness," which so long (and even yet) did discredit to our art and so mucli injury to the luckless sulfercr. •'VV^aterdressing " implies lint saturated" with •water and covered with some impermeable sub- stJince. It seems of little consequence whether the watT used be cold or hot when applied, ns it is soon assimilated lo the temperature of the Imdv. We may variously medicate the water to suit tlie requirements of the case. Again, continuous irri- gation, i.e., keeping the surface of the wound coti- Btantly moist by a trickling stream of water, simpU or medicated by the addition of various agents, of a temperature suited to the "requirements of the case, is rightly esteemed one of the most useful and efficient methods of treating open wounds. For lacerated wounds of the limbs, as well as for many stumps, no method of management can be more successful. Inflammation is most surely subdued, pain relieved, secretions removed, and a healthful state of the tissues secured. That a too- prolonged use of cold water appears occasionally to retard cicatrisation maybe granted; but raising the temperature, or adding a metallic stimulant or an astringent to the water employed, obviates this drawback in a very great measure; or, when all fear of inflammation has passed away, the irrigation may give place to some more tonic application. Since Breschet first re introduced and A. Berard (1835) advocated this method of treatment, it has steadily been gaining the confidence of the profes- -ion, especially in the management of those severe contusions and lacerations of the hands which are so often admitted into the hospitals of our great industrial centres. While several ingenious appa- ratus have been constructed to facilitate irrigation, nothing can act more satisfactorily than a simple liigh wooden basin-stand, the top perforated to hold the basin, and of a height sufficient to raise the basin a couple of feet above the limb. A pro- jecting arm with a few upright rests upon it carries a skein of worsted thread (one er.d of which is immersed in the basin) over the side of the bed, so as to allow the water, which easily flows along it, to fall on the part submitted to its action. A piece of wet lint placed over the wound distri- luites the fluid equally, and a sheet of oiled cloth properly arranged keeps the bed dry, and conducts the water to a vessel placed on the floor. Many ingenious and not a few expensive apparatus have been constructed to effect the irrigation of wounded parts, but none are more effectual or easier managed than this. A high stool with the basin on the top, and a piece of flat wood to carry the threads, will efiect the end, but in a less substantial maimer than is done by the simple appliance de- scribed. The writer has extensively used irrigation for some years and with most satisfactory results. The only drawback to it when properly employed is the necessity for keeping the patient in bed or in a fixed posture, when, possibly, his injury mav not absolutely demand such constraint. 5. Heated atmospheric air, oxygon gas, and carbonic-acid gas have also been employed in the treatment of open wounds, according to their several proposers, with admirable effect. Heated air, and also a current of cool air is used for the pur- pose of drying up the secretions of the wound, and 90 causing a scab to fnrin, underneath which iho breach may cicatrise. Oxygen and carbonic acid gas have been employed for the medicating influ- ence they arc supposed to exert on the open surface. The effect of temperature in hastening or retard- ing cicatiisation has been already alluded to. In 1810, M. Guyot published his work on "Incu- bation," in which he detailed his experience' (which was then mature) on the use of air at a tixed high temperature in the treatment of wounds, lie invented apparatus of a somewhat complicated nature to ensure the required conditions in the case of wounds of different parts of the body, and there cannot be a question but that both in his hands and those of Breschet, Marjolin, Robert, and others, the success was remarkable.