I VENEREAL DISEASE. 97L tion, had fiiiled to produce any manifestation of the disease in animals, instituted a series of ex- periments in order to remove tlie doubts witli wliich his mind was impressed ; and, after frequent failures, and in spite of the most determined and influential opposition to his views, succeeded in cimipletely reversing the hitherto received opinions on this important question. Thus was opened up a new field of observation, a new mode of invcsti- fjation, which could not fail to advance our know- ledge of the nature, habits, and character of the venereal poison, and to lead to a more thorough understanding of the numerous disputed points connected with the study of this very intricate subject. Earnest pathologists in Italy, in Norway, in France,and in this country, have not failed to turn to account the important facts promulg.ited by 'SI. Auzias Turenne, and which have, in addition, led to the establishment of the interesting inference tliat the poison of sj-philis may be so introduced into the system of animals and of man as to render it no longer capable of carrying on this disease; and that in this respect the poison of syphilis par- takes of the well-known properties of the vaccine and variolous poisons. A difference in degree is noted, but a similar power can no longer be denied to the venereal virus. It is well known as regards vaccination, that a number of vesicles is more to be depended upon than a single one, to render the individual free from after attacks of smnll-pox or of vaccine poison. But with regard to the venereal virus, some hundreds of inoculations are required to produce a similar immunity to future attacks. But to enter more into detail, in the year 1844, as above stated, M. Auzias Turenne succeeded in inoculating monkeys, cats, rabbits, dogs and horses with the syphilitic poison. He found it was necessary to select a part not accessible to the animal's tongue, and to take other precautions to ensure the contact of the virus with the living tissues. He generally inocidated the inside of the ear, bj' removing the cuticle with a curved pair ol scissors ; the poison was then applied in a moist state to the abraded surface. He soon ascertained that he could not only produce a chancre at will in these animals, but that he could transfer it from one animal to another, and again to the human species apparently in an unaltered state. He observed, however, that the chancre went through its stages of development and decline more rapidly in animals than in the human being, lasting in the former from ten to twelve days only, and healing spontaneously. But the most remarkable fact noticed by M. Turenne was, that an animal, after repeated inoculations, became less and less sus- ceptible of the poison, and at last the inoculations failed altosiether. The animal was said by M. Turenne to have gnined immunity to the disease, and to have become syphilised or fatnrated with the poison. Admitting M. Turcnnes' facts, we should be inclined to frivc a different explanation of them ; instead of faying, that the system had .become saturated with the poison, we would rather say, that the system had lost the power of repro- ducing the poison. The next step was, to apply this infdrmation to the human subject, and to as- certain whether similar results could he obtained. M. 'J'lirenne applied for perniissiou to prosecute his inquiries in the female Venereal Hospital of I'aris, but without success. He had, however, no difH- culty in inducing patients in private practice to submit themselves to repeated inoculations, with the double hope of being cured of the disease, and of gaining an inmiiinity to future attacks. His over zeal even induced him to propose syphilisatioti as a prophylatic as well as a curative measure. It was obviously of considerable importance to ascer- tain whether the poison became modified by pass- ing through the system of animals, and whether its inoculation from them to man might be attended, as in vaccine, or in small pox, with any beneficial results. In 1850, M. de Wetz, of Wurtzbnrg, in- oculated himself from the ear of a monkey on four different occasions. Chancres of the usual degree of severity were produced. M. Robert also sub- jected himself to a similar experiment, and suffered most severelj', proving in his own person that the poison had lost none of its virulence. He in- oculated himself from a chancre on the ear of a cat on two different occasions, and tranferred the poison again from himself to the same animal. M. Turenne, having performed his experiments on some hundreds of persons, boldly asserted that the system of any individual might be rendered by repeated inoculations insusceptible of the poison of syphilis; that all his existing symptoms would disappear, and lastly, that immunity from the disease would be secured. Struck by the state- ments of M. Turennfe, Dr. Sperino, attached to the Venereal Hospital of Turin, determined to test their truth by direct experiments on the female patients under his charge. These experiments, conducted in a public hospital by a distinguished physician, under the observation of his colleagues and of the students in attendance on his practice, could not fail to have weight with the profession. He at first practised three or four inoculations at a time on the abdomen twice a week ; subsequently he increased the number of the inoculations to ten, twelve, twenty, or more at a sitting,and diminished the intervals. This treatment was continued as long as any syphilitic symptoms remained, and as long as the inoculations produced any effect. In some cases the patients were under treatment for more than a year ; in others only two or three months, the majority requiring from six to eight months before the inoculations proved abortive, or before the symptoms disappeared. Dr. Sperino observed as a rule that the first inoculations were more severe than the second ; the second than the third, and that each succeeding set diminished in size and duration, until at last they produced no result. Matter from a fresh source would often take effect after the inoculation from the ulcers of the patient herself ceased to produce any result, lint at last matter taken from any source would fail to create a poisonous sore, and the patient was now pronounced cured and insusceptible of fur- ther attack of the disease. He also remarked that, as long as the smallest ulcer could be produced, or any secretion obtained, the piiison had lost none of its virulence, and was as powerful to affect an- other individual as if tiiken from the largest or first inoculated ulcers. He noticed that those who at the tinu) of treatment had large or nmnerous siu'es, or where they had continued for a consider- able length of lime, a less ninuber of inoculations were required to produce syphilisation. Dr. Sperino's first report, in 1051, to the Medico- Cliirurgical Academy of Turin, contained a