when pressed upon by a probe ; if there be another pi. 8. fig. 7. Another saw, constructed on some- 34'* NECllOSIS. cap. 88.) The same kind of practice was suc- cesifuUy adopted in two instances by Scultetus. (See Armament. CIdrurg. tab. xlvi. and obs. 81.) Tliis commendable method, however, afterwards fell into disuse, until M. David, by twenty ex- amples of success, refuted all the objections which had been urged against it. (P. 197.) Since the period of this distinguished author, tlie practice has been imitated by all enlightened surgeons, so that the case is no longer regarded as a disease ne- cessarily requiring amputation. M. Bousselin cut out the sequestrum eiglit times from the tibia, and four times from the thigh-bone, with perfect suc- cess. (Vid. Mem. de la Socieie Royal de Mede- cine, t. iv.) The method consists in exposing the bone, and making in it an opening of suflicient size for the removal of the loose dead fragments. Experience proves, not only that patients affected with ne- crosis bear this operation well, but that, after its performance, the ulcers commonly heal favour- ably, the health becomes re-established, and the functions of the limb are hardly at all impaired. Surgeons, however, are not indiscriminately to choose any period for performing this operation. If they are too hasty, they will run the risk of finding the dead portion of bone still adherent to the adjacent parts : and if they delay too long, the patient may be irrecoverably reduced ; while there is much greater difficulty experienced in opening the investing case of new bone, on account of the density which it has now acquired. Patients are met with who have been afflicted with necrosis several years. In such cases, great circumspection js necessarj', and the practitioner should carefully endeavour to ascertain that the dead pieces of bone have not been absorbed or come away piecemeal in the discharge, lest a useless operation should be performed, as once happened in the practice of M. Bousselin. (Mem. de la Socitte lioyale de Mtdec.ine, t. iv. p. 304.) There- fore, when the disease is of long continuance ; when the discharge is much less than it was at the commencement ; when small pieces of bone have at times been voided ; and the sequestnim cannot be felt with a probe ; it maj"^ be most prudent to abandon all idea of operating, and allow nature to finish what she has so well begun. In short, when the sequestra are undergoing a gradual ab- sorption, without ever making their appearance externallj', or giving any considerable disturbance to the constitution ; or, when the dead bone is making its way outward without occasioning much suffering or inconvenience ; the surgeon .should interfere but little with the natural progress of the case. When the dead bone does not tend to make its way to the surface, but lies quietly con- cealed in the new osseous shell, a gentle stimulant, such as a blister, has sometimes seemed to promote the process of exfoliation, and thus hastened the cure ; but soothing applications are in general more suited to all cases of necrosis. £As soon, however, as the sequestrum is de- tached, which may generally be ascertained by examination with a probe, it should be cut down Upon and removed, riie dead bone, although separated from the living, may be held finnly by means of the granulations projecting into the holes and irregula- rities on its surface, which prevent its moving fistulous opening into the cavity, n second probe slundd be introduced until it touches the dead piece, and then by making pressure alternately with the probes any movement can readily be detected. As a rule, an operation for necrosis should not be practised until the dead portion is dttiiclicd from the rest of the bone ; but in some cases, whore the exfoliation progresses very slowly, an attempt may be made to remove the diseased piece, for, even if all of it be not taken away, the stimulus of the operation to the parts surrounding it will accelerate the process of separation.] If the surgeon operate as soon as the sequestrum becomes loose, he will often find the new bone so soft that it can be divided with a knife ; a circum- stance which materially facilitates and shortens the operation. Excepting in very young children, Mr. Mayo considers it generally right to remove the seques- trum by an operation, several months perhaps be- fore it would spontaneously come away, because " the confinement of the patient to his bed, or couch, may produce sloughing of the integuments, or contraction of the limbs. The long confinement, or continued discharge, may exhaust the constitu- tion. The protracted continuance of the sequestrum in the new bone may give rise to caries, or even involve the neighbouring joint in the disease." {On Human Pathology, p. 30.) Keeping in mind the foregoing precepts, the surgeon is to begin with exposing the bone, in which the sequestrum is contained. When the bone lies immediately under the skin, Weidmann recommends making such incisions as will lay bare the whole of its surface ; and when its situation is deeper beneath the muscles, he even sanctions cutting away as much of the flesh as may be necessary to allow the instruments to be freely worked upon the bone. 1 cannot, however, see the propriety of this advice : exposing the whole surface of the bone in the first instance, before it is known whether the saw need be so extensively used as to require such a denudation, certainly appears irrational. And, as for cutting away any portions of muscle, this can be no more necessary here than it is in the operation of trephining. But it is unquestionably' proper to make, with the bistoury, sufficient space for the use of whatever instrument is employed for the division of the bone. Yet it is only necessary to make this exposure in the first instance in one place. The surgeon can afterwards enlarge the incision, or practise others, as circumstances may indicate. The surface of the bone being brought into view, if the cavities, in whicii the dead fragments lodge, present aper- tures which are too narrow, these apertures must be rendered larger by means of a small trephine, or with a saw constructed on the principle of those described by Mr. Hey, of Leeds, or else with a pair of cutting forceps, with which the removal of the requisite portion of bone can be very expedi- tiously accomplished. In University College Hos- pital, I have employed for this purpose a curved pair of bone forceps, and found them convenient. The perpendicularly acting wheel-like saw, turned by machinery, and invented by Mr. Jlaclieil, hero promises also to be of important assistance. It has been used by Sir A. Cooper, who has given an engraving of it in his Siogical Jissays, part i.