(ESOPHAGUS. the distress is very great. The voice is often all'ected, aiid sounds as ifa foreign body were present iu the throat. The whole system ere long is in- fluenced by the irritation, pain, and want of due nourishment. Emaciation, gastric derangement, want of sleep, prostration, high nervous excitement, and mental depression soon proclaim the danger and progress of the complaint, Death takes place by exhaustion, in consequence of the want of food, and before death mind aiid body are in general reduced to the last stage of exhaustion. In the case of malignant stricture a fatal termination is not uncommon, at a comparatively early stage, from pneumonia. The history and symptoms of organic stricture of the oesophagus are in general sufficiently dis- tinctive. It is apparent that embarrassment in deglutition must naturally be one of the earliest and throughout the leading symptom of the com- plaint, so that it is necessary clearly to recognise the various causes which may give rise to this symptom. These criuses are various and numerous, and the dependence of the dysphagia on stricture is often to be decided by determining the absence of these other efficient causes. Any pressure exerted on the oesophagus, by a body within or without its walls, may embarrass the function of swallowing. In the upper part of the gullet we may find enlarged tonsils. These are easily recognised. Polypoid growths, foreign bodies, abscesses of the walls of the pharynx or in the soft parts of the neck ; cedema or ulceration of the back part of the epiglottis or rima glottidis ; that chronic inflamma- tion of the pharynx which occasionally accom- panies or follows chronic skin-diseases and abnormal dilatation of the oesophagus,—all these may occa- sion dysphagia. The presence of polypi or foreign bodies, or post-pharyngeal abscess, may iu general be detected by inspection (the tongue being well depressed and drawn forwards) and digital exami- nation ; while the laryngoscope, or the sensation communicated to the finger, as well as the other symptoms present, and especially laryngeal cough and fits of suffocation in affections of the epiglottis and rima, will enable us to recognise ulceration of the epiglottis and chronic pharyngitis. Exostosis of the vertebra;, or a malignant or other tumour growing from the spine and pressing upon the gullet, may also be the cause of the diffi- culty of swallowing. The finger will best recognise these sources of obstruction. Tumors of all kinds situated in the mediastina, or in the lateral regions of the neck, may cause dysphagia by pressure. Cancerous or other growths springing from the spine, enlargement of the thyroid or thymus, or lymphatic glands, and aneurism of the great vessels, may come to press on and obstruct the oesophagus. Aneurisnuil enlarge- ments in a backward direction of the carotids, innominata, or aorta may thus act, and be by no means easily recognised. Tumors of the posterior mediastinum give rise to wearing pain between the shoulders, flashing down the arms and often up the sides of the head; and if of cancerous origin, they will declare themselves before long by tlieir in- fluence on the general system. Percussion, too, and the history of their progress will assist us. The hand and eye can iu general, especially in the later stiiges, when emaciation is present, detect tumors of the lateral regions of the neck; and auscultation and percussioji, together with those other 367 symptoms occasioned I by aneurism of the great arterial trunks ol the neck, will enable us in general to make out these affections. Instrumental examination of the cesppliagus must not be at- tempted in, cases of suspected aneurism, as the rupture of the sac might follow any suck ill-judged manipulation. The embarrassment of the respira- tion and of the venous circulation, which so com- monly attends aneui'ism, will afford us useful infor- mation in most cases. Further, ^ dysphagia attends paralysis of the gullet, and is a common attendant on hydrophobia, tetanus, congestion of the brain, and apoplexy; and is occasionally seen in hysteria, low fevers, epilepsy, and mania. These sources are, however, easily discovered. The passage of a bougie will in cases of paralysis make the absence of organic stricture evident, and the fact that in cases of paralysis more difliculty is encountered in swallow- ing fluid than solid food (the very contrary to what is seen in organic strictures), wiU confirm the diagnosis. _ Dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle, either from accident or in consequence of curvature of the spine, are also to be noted as rare but easily ascertained causes of dj-sphagia. The obstruction, then, being from none of these causes, the question next arises, is it of a simple or malignant kind .P and this is often very diflJcult to determine. The sensation communicated to the hand when passing a bougie often conveys to us important information on this point. If the in- strument passes apparently over a rough surface with a jerking and grating sensation,—if there is' any enlargement discoverable at the root of the neck,—if the cervical glands are enlarged,—if blood or pus follow the withdrawal of the bougie, and if such expectoration continue, mixed or not with shreds of tissue, and if there is the sallow look of cancer and suspicious tumors elsewhere, then the most unfavourable view of the nature of the affection is forced upon us. The absence of these conditions would justify the contrary opinion and lead us to believe that we had to do with a simple or fibrous stricture. In thin persons, if a stricture, even of a simple kind, be attended with much deposition in the parietes of the canal, and be situated high up, it can occasionally be discovered by pressing the fingers behind the trachea while the patient makes an effort to swallow. The treatment of organic stricture of the oeso- phagus is often very diflicult and unsatisfactory and demands much care and perseverance. ' In fibrous stricture the main resource is instru- mental dilatation, by which some hope to promote the absorption of the deposited lymph, and all expect to retain or increase the calibre of the pas. sage. This dilatation of the can.il may bs attempted either rapidly or slowly. Various kinds of instruments are employed. Elastic bougies with, well-rounded ends; whalebone instruments with balls of ivory attached to their extremities '• pieces of sponge, which being saturated with white' of egg or oil are pressed through the constriction • instruments with blades, which, by means of screws in the handle or other contrivance, are sepanitod the one from the other ; catheters, with iudia- rubber sheaths, which ;uo exiianded by the pres- sure of water or air ; hollow graduated instruments which slip the one over the other, and all the various appliances which are employed in the