through the prostatic portion of the urethra and tho bladder, at the close of the treatment, for the purpose of ascertaining whether any fragments remain, great assistance may sometimes be derived from the use of chloroform. The instruments required for lithotritj' are an ordinary catheter to draw off the urine, an inject- ing syringe, a large-eyed catheter for washing out the bladder, and a lithotritic forceps. The positions of the operator and patient are of importance. The surgeon places himself on the right side of the patient—not between his legs. The patient is to be placed on his back on a bed or couch, with the pelvis slightly raised by an unyielding cushion, so as to bring the most depending part of the bladder on a line with the internal orifice of the urethra. The head and shoulders should be supported by pillows, so that there be no strain on any part of the body, and the patient may feel himself at ease. The legs of the patient are to be separated, and the thighs slightly flexed. Everything having been prepared, the catheter is now introduced into the bladder, and the urine dra^v^ off. The quantity of urine which comes away enables the surgeon to form some estimate of the quantity of tepid water which may be injected into the bladder. This will vary in different cases, according to the capacity and irritability of the bladder; generally speaking, four to six ounces will be borne without distress; but in old cases of stone the bladder is often contracted and very irritable. As soon as a few spoonfuls of fluid are thrown in, the bladder contracts and ejects the fluid. In cases of this kind the operation should be abandoned, or at all events deferred. Sir Benjamin Brodie, however, informs us that the power of the bladder to retain the fluid may alwaj-s be restored by keeping the patient in a recumbent posture for from seven to fourteen days, and daily injecting some water into the bladder. Having injected a sufiicient quantity of fluid to guard the walls of the bladder from injur}', the operator next takes the lithotrite, which has been , warmed and well oiled, and passes it into the bladder. This part of the operation should be condiacted in the following manner. The surgeon, standing on the right side of the patient, opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, takes tile penis between the fore and middle fingers of the left hand, and holds the lithotrite lightly but firmly between the fingers of the right hand, in the same manner as ho would hold a pen. Drawing the penis towards the ilium, the operator introduces the instrument laterally till he reaches the_bulbous portion of the urethra, when he brings the penis and lithotrite perpendicular to the me- dian line. He now removes the loft hand from the penis, and makes gentle pressure with it over the symphysis pubis, in order to relax as tnnch ns possible the triangular ligament, and to relieve the straining sensation which is often experienced at this stage of the operation. With the right hand he first gently depresses the litlio- tnte between the thighs of the patient, and carries it forward, the cukvo of the lithotrite, as it were, being accommodated to the curve of the urethra by the depression of the handle of the in- strument. By this mode, tho end of tho lithotrite gra- dually naes without experiencing any obstacle LITHOTRITY. 255 neck of the bladder into the cavity of the organ. No fixed rule can bo laid down for the amount of depression to be employed, as this will chiefly depend on the condition of the prostate and the kind of instrument used. The more enlarged the prostate, and the [more acute the angle formed between the blades and shaft of the lithotrite, the greater will be the amount of depression required. By a slight rotatory motion the surgeon soon knows that the instrument has entered the bladder. There is seldom any difficulty in passing the instrument, at least in ordinary cases; and it seems almost unnecessary to mention that these proceedings should be conducted slowly and in a cautious manner. The membranous portion of the urethra has been lacerated more than once, but such an accident is now of rare occurrence. The lithotrite being; in the bladder, the next step is to find and seize the calculus. Different methods are employed to effect this, the most important part of the operation. In ordinary cases the beak of the lithotrite soon meets the Stone, or, if not immediately, after a few move- ments with the blades slightly separated. Should any delay occur, the writer follows closely the method recommended and practised by M. Civiale. The blades are to be separated from each other about half or three-quarters of an inch. The instrument is held lightly between the thumb and fingers of the left hand, which are applied to the square and round portions of the female blade, the back of the hand being directed upwards; whilst the fl3'-wheel, which drives the screw, is held by the thumb and first two fingers of the right hand. The instrument is then made to revolve slowly in the bladder with the blades a little open. This revolution is effected by movements of the thumb and two fingers of the left hand, as if we were revolving a pencil or any cylindrical body between them. It is made at first to one side, say the right, and while this is being dona the male branch is at the same time gently moved forwards . and backwards several times to the extent of half or three quarters of an inch. The object of these movements is, that the male branch may meet the stone, which it generally does while traversing the different spaces. If the stone be not caught in this situation, tho instrument is rotated, in the same way, on the opposite side of the bladder the male blade being moved forwards and back- wards as before. The whole of the floor of the bladder, with the exception of its central part is thus explored; and if the patient has been a little inclined to the right side, the stone will, in most cases, be caught with ease on the right side of the floor of tho bladder. Let us suppose, how- ever, that the calculus is not discovered in cither of the situations mentioned; that it lies in the centre of the floor, or just behind the prostate which IS probably somewhat enlarged. In a case' of this kind an attempt may be made to dislodge the stone by elevating the pelvis more than in ordinary cases. Tho mere change of position may displace the calculus and enable us to seize it. Should this, however, fail, we must have recoursti to the following proceeding:—The revolution of the instrument, which in the two cases formerly spoken of was such as only to command the sides of the floor, is continued until the point of the