! LARYNGOTOMY. croup and diphtheria, malignant' disease of the hiryiix, and tumours of the fauces, the laryn- goscope is invaluable. Its use, although at present confined to a low, will in time become general, both in the hands of tlie physician and the surgeon. The one great thing necessary is a good moderator lamp, or an Argaud gas lamp, which can be lit when required; for wlien a good light is obtained, the examination of the patient becomes a matter of ease and certainty after a moderate amount of experience.] George D. Gibb, 179 LARYNGOTOMY (Aopuy^ and t4hvw). [The operation of opening the larynx. This may be undertaken either to fulfil a temporary purpose, or in order to maintain a permanent opening. There are very many circumstances which may call for laryngotomy. When air does not get iree entrance to or exit from the lungs, in conse- quence of some obstruction in the windpipe; when, from the presence of disease, it is desirable to give rest to the functions of the upper part of the larynx; when some foreign body has to be removed from, or some medicament to be introduced into the cavity of the larynx. Laryngotomy may have to be performed when it is necessary to carry on artificial respiration more effectually than can be accomplished in the ordinary way, as in asphyxia from the inhalation of gases, or in drowning; in spasm of the glottis, arising from any cause, as in chronic laryngitis, pressure on the recurrents, spasmodic croup, or peripheral irritation. In the swelling of the lips of the glottis, which takes place in the progress of some laryngeal ailments, and especially in oede- matous laryngitis, in alfections of the epiglottis or vocal cords, in polypus or other growths of the laryngeal cavity, and in the paralysis of the lai-ynx which sometimes follows blows, laryngotomy may be called for. Many surgeons prefer tracheotomy to laryngotomy in cases of inflammatory affections of the larynx accompanied with effusion into the lips of the glottis, in order to keep the artificial opening quite beyond the seat of the disease; but as in such cases the effusion, which is the cause of the obstruction, does not extend below the true vocal cords, the opening in laryngotomy must be always below the level of the mischief. In chronic laryngitis, again, the ulcerative action may pass so far down ns to render it more desirable to open the trachea. Laryngitis has had to be performed in some rare cases of glossitis in which other means had failed to reduce the swelling; in tonsillitis and pharyngitis also, as well as in tumours of the pharynx, which have pressed on and closed the opening into the windpipe ; in retro-pharyngeal abscess, which cannot be evacuated, and whose pressure on the upper part of the windpipe is dan- gerous; in some cases of fracture and displacement of the cartilages or bones of the larynx ; in wounds (especially gunshot) of the neck, followed by rapid emphysematous or cedematous swelling, dangerous to the respiration;—in all these cases the operation of laryngotomy has been practised, and will be at times demanded. The comparative advantages of laryngotomy and tracheotomy, with the cases adapted for each, is con- sidered in the article Tracheotomy; but it may be here remarked, that when the exact seat of operation w a matter of indifference, laryngotomy will be preferred, from the greater ease and rapidity (and this is sometimes a matter of the most vital con- sequence) of its execution, and the comparative freedom from danger and inconvenience attending it—advantages which are not altogether neutralised by the more restricted opening obtained, and the greater irritation which ia occasionally caused by a tube worn in the aperture. The operation of opening the larynx is a very old one. It has been ascribed to Asclepiadea of Rome, although its establishment as a regular operation is undoubtedly due to Fabricius-ab- Aquapendente. It was Vicq d'Azyr who in 1776 introduced the ordinary operation in which the crico-thyroid membrane is opened. He made the incision in the membrane transversely, while now-a-days it is usu- ally made longitudinally. The space here operated on is very limited, especially in women and children, while even in the adult male it measures on an average less than an inch. It is, however, very superficial and easily reached. When the operation of laryngotomy is about to be performed, the patient should be placed in the re- cumbent position, with the head thrown back as far as the freedom of respiration will allow. A child may be held in the lap of an assistant, with the head supported on and pressed to his breast. The incisions must be strictly in the middle line between the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and should pass down at once to the membrane, which is to be opened with the point of the knife, and by a slight jerking movement. The membrane may be cut either vertically, horizontally, or crucially. The tube which is best adapted for keeping the opening patent is one curved on the flat. A small branch (the crico-thyroid) of the superior thyroid artery, which traverses the membrane somewhat nearer the edge of the thyroid than the cricoid cartilage, may be kept out of the way by the nail or if it is cut in the operation, and it bleed freely, a ligature may be applied. Some operators prefer opening the crico-thyroid membrane by means of a trocar, but many strong and well-founded objections are made to such a practice. The point of the instrument is apt to slip off the windpipe and wound parts lying in its • neighbourhood ; it is liable to penetrate or seri- ously injure the posterior wall of the windpipe, and it has been sometimes found not to have entered the canal at all, but to have passed downwards between the cartilages and mucous membrane. Greater speed and simplicity, and having a tube at once introduced into the air-passage, are the advantages claimed for the trocar. The very limited aperture afforded in the above operation being insufRcient for many of the purposes for which the larynx is opened, caused the sug- gestion of other operations. Boyer, in 1820, modified the above operation by splitting the cricoid cartilage and a few rings (3 or 4) of the trachea from above downwards in the middle line, after having opened the crico-thyroid membrane, as in the operation before described. This procedure has been termed Laryngo-lraolieo- tomy. The great elasticity of the cricoid, arising from its being an entire ring, makes it readily close after being incised in this operation, and . hence comes the difficulty which attends the intro- duction of the tube at that part of the wound a difficulty which, however, does not attend the N 2