709 TETANUS. a fibroiis materiiil, of sorao density, occupies the body of the organ. If atrophy result from scrofu- lous disease, the gland will be converted into a mass of cheesy deposit, or dry calcareous matter. Wasting of the testicles has been stated to follow the inflammation arising from the mumps {Hamilton, Trans. Hoy. Soc. Edin., vol. ii.); but it is very doubtful if such be the case. Long-con- tinued abstinence has been known to occasion the loss of desire, and ultimately of the testicular function, so that partial atrophy has ensued : mental impressions will sometimes produce the same result and in the same manner. Masturbation and excessive venery may be fol- lowed by wasting of the organ, and if both testicles become affected, ipipotency is the result: according to Mr. Curling the repeated local congestion thus caused indutes an attack of inflammation and atrophy ensues.. (Op. c/t p. 106.) Larrey refers to cases where constant indulgence in alcoholic stimulants has produced a like effect. Narcotics have been similarly charged, as also the continued use of iodide of potassium, but this is not yet satisfactorily proved, and certainly the cases in which it occurs must be very rare. Atrophy of the testicles has been observed in the disease known as Elephantiasis Grsecorum ; Lawrence {Med. CJiir. Trans, vol. vi.) and Curling (3hd. Gaz. vol. vii.) have each met with an example of this, and other instances have been recorded. When the testicles have been arrested in their descent, and have not reached the scrotum, they are often soft and very small. This, however, is due to their non-development, and not to a wast- ing of the gland ; the same may be said of those cases of deficient growth of the testes, which is not uncommon in idiots and others whose brains are imperfectly developed. The treatment of these cases is most unsatis- factorj-, and must be guided in each instance by the cause of the affection. Restoration of the organs to their normal size is hardly to be expected.] The induration and sivellinr) of the testicles re- sulting from effusion of urine into the scrotum, and often accompanying fistulie in perinjeo, will subside after the disease of the urethra has been cured. (See ./. Cloqnet, Pathologic Chir., p. 44.) Every surgeon of experience must have witnessed this fact. The late Mr. Kamsden thought, that some sarcoceles might be relieved by removing with bougies a supposed morbid irritability of the urethra, with which his theories led him to con- nect the origin of the complaint. (See Fracl. Obs. on Sclerocde, &c.) No doubt many chronic en- largements of the testicle have subsided during this treatment, especially when aided by calomel and other means ; but a doubt may be entertained, whether the bougie had any essential share in producing the benefit obtained. The practice, at all events, is not much adopted, though on the first suggestion of it many trials were made. G. G. Gascoyen. See Pott's CliirurKical Works, vol. ii. cd. 1808. Aficrnnl/ii/, On Tumours. James Warrirop, On Fun- gus Hicmatodes. /Itiillic's .Morhid Anatomy, p. 352, ed. 2. Velpech, PrC'cls. \'.\6m. ilcs MalndiiB Cliir., It. iil. p. 564. Iliclierarid, Nosogr. Cliir., t. iv. p. 300, ed. 4. Baron Duimiilrcn, Lc^;ons Oralcs (le f'lini(iiie Cliir., t. i. art. iv. (ind vi. 8vo. Paris, 1832. !^ir Astley Cooper, On the Structure and Diseases of tlie Testis, 4to. Lonil. 1830. Ciisac/t, in Uulilin .lour- niil of Med. Science, No. 23. JJaif. Travers, in Med. tlnr. Trans, vol. xvii. >iir Benjamin Brodie, in Lend. Med. Gaz., vol. xiii. 8vo. London, 1834. J. Cloquef, Patliol. Chir. p. 99, &c. Cruveilhier, Aiiatomie Palliol. du Corps liumain, fol. Paris, 1829-35. il/aj/o'* Out- lines ot Pathology, cbap. iii. 8vo. Loud. [Dr. Robert IJamilton, Trau?. Roy. Soc. Edin. vol. ii. 1790. >S)> Everard Home, Observations on Cancer, 1805. Lawrence, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. iv. 1808. Med. Chir. Trans., vol. vi. Baron Larrey, Cliiiique Chirurgicale, 1829. Hennen, Principles of Military Surgery, 1829. Itouchoux, Arch. G^n. de Mdd. 1833. Ricord, Traitd de Maladies V^n^riennes, 1838. /S«/Tai<^ Tli^se sur la N^vralgie du Testicule, 1841. Curlinff, A Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Testis, 1843. Velpeau, Diet, de M^decine, vol. xxix. 1844. Syme, Lond. and Edin. Journ. 1845. Aniott, Med. Cbir. Trans. 1847. Gosselin, Arch. G^n. de M^d. t. xvi. 1848. Ollivier, Arch. Gdn. de Med. t. XV. 1848. Jol)ert {de Lamballe), Plaies d'Armes a Feu. Communications a I'Acad^mie de M^decine, 1849. Jai-javay, Arch. G^n. de Med., t. XX. 1849. Vidat (de Cassis), Treatise on Venereal Diseases. Translation by Blackman, Amer. edit. 1854. NHatun, Patliologie Chirurgicale, vol. v. 1858. Dr. George Johnson, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xlii. 1859. Gross, System of Surgery, vol. ii. 3rd. edit. 1864. Cullerier, Des Affections Blennorrhagiques, 1864.] TETANUS. (From retvw, to stretch. Te- tanus is defined by all authors to be a more or less violent and extensive contraction of the muscles of voluntary motion, attended with tension and rigidity of the parts affected, [which is long con- tinued and uncontrollable.] The excessive contraction of the muscles is generally kept up, without any intervals of com- plete relaxation; in which respect the disorder differs from or.dinary spasms and convulsions, where the contractions and relaxations alternate in rapid succession. In tetanus, the powers of sensation and intellect also remain unimpaired, in which particular it forms a contrast to epilepsy. {Bees's Cyclopcedia, art. Tetanus.) When its effects are confined to the muscles of the jaw or throat, it is called trismus or locked- jaiv; when a greater number of muscles are in- volved, but the trunk retains its ordinary straight- ness, the case is named tetanus. When the body is bent forwards, the disease is termed emprosiho- ionos; and opisthotwws, when the muscles of the back are principally affected. To tliese four forms, some writers add a fifth, which is denomf-!. nated pleurosthotonos, and characterised by the body being drawn to one side. It is the tetanus lateralis of Sauvages. The different terms applied, tetanic affections do not then imply so many to particular diseases, but only the seat and vari- ous degrees of one and the same complaint. Trismus is invariably a part of each of the other varieties. A still more important division of tetanus is inta acute and chronic, according to its greater or lesser intensity. The first is exceedingly dangerous, and usually fatal; while the latter, on account of tho more gradual progress of the symptoms, affords more opportunity of being successfully treated., {Larrey, in Man. de Chirurnie Militaire. t i" p. 2;i5, 23G.) Tetanus is also divided into traumatic, or that arising from wounds, being the case with which surgeons have principally to deal, and occasionally termed symptomatic; and into idiopathic, or that proceeding from other causes. Traumatic tetanus sometimes comes on in a sur- prisingly sudden manner, and quickly attains its most violent degree. The most rapidly fatal case that has ever been recorded is one that we have on the authority of the late Professor Robison of