sons wlio have led dissipnted lives he would also place in the same category. In all such cases he considers mercury to be the most ellcctuiil remedy for the purpose of preventing further deposition, and for the promotion of the absorption of that already cxistin^f. The syphilitic cachexia, or sequelai of syphilis, he looks upon as associated with destruc- tive processes, such as extensive ulcerations or sloughing in soft structures, and caries or necrosis in bone. With regard to internal organs, he connects the iardaceous and waxy conditions occasionally found in the liver, spleen, kidney, lungs, and other organs, with the sequelaj of syphilis. In all these conditions he would consider mercury injurious, and would have re- course to iodide of potassium. We cannot sub- scribe to the opinion that the deposits of nodules of tibro-plastic material in the tongue and other muscles, or under the skin and mucous membrane, which last we have been in the habit of naming subcutaneous or submucous tubercle, should be classed with secondary or constitutional syphilis, and consequently treated by mercury. On the contrary, we are inclined to maintain that they are found a"ssociated rather with the so-called tertiary symptoms, and require the treatment appropriate to the sequelcE of syphilis. We have seen many fibro-plastic deposits, in the tongue and other muscles, and under the skin and mucous membrane, occurring in old-standing cases of venereal disease, but never in the early stages of constitutional syphilis, and have always found in these cases iodine a more effectual remedy than mercurj'. To the other views entertained by Dr. Wilks we are inclined to subscribe, with the reservation, in which he would probably agree with us, that fibro-plastic deposits will be occasionally met with as the result of inflammatory action from whatever cause. A few quotations from Dr. Wilks's essay will place his views more clearly before the reader. At page 4 he says: " I would therefore insist, in limine, in reference to this subject, that the whole of the modern theories have been mainly in the direction of discovering a wider extent of influence for the venereal virus, and have not, as some have supposed, tended to the establishment of a sypliilitic cause for various well- known internal diseases.' Referring to his own investigations, he says " The modern doctrine simply maintains that the internal organs may be affected equally with the external; that not only the cranium, but the brain within it, or the nerves; not only the muscles of the limbs and tongue, but the heart; not only the pharynx, but tlie cesophagus; not only the larynx, but the trachea, bronchi,and lungs; also the liver, spleen, and other viscera." " In syphilis there is a disposition to a low form of lymph or fibro-plastic material in nearly every ■ tissue of the body, occasionally modified in character, to a slight extent, by the organ in which it occurs. Consequently in those who have died suffering from this disease, there is scarcely an orijan but what may be found alfected in this particular way. In solid organs, or in the interiur of tissues, there is found a more or less circumscribed deposition of an albumino- fibrous material." " That whilst the system is still contaminated by the syphilitic poison, there is this disposition to the deposit of lymph; and also the converse. VENEREAL DISEASE. -'^67 ' —that the discovery of such disposition existing must be regarded as evidence of the presence of the venereal virus." " The character which the deposit assumes in a muscle may be taken as that which prevails more or less in all other organs. In the tongue, or in one of the muscles of a limb, a rounded hard lump may be felt through the integu- ments, and thus constitutes a tumor. It differs, however, from the ordinary class of tumors, known •is new growths, since the latter proceed from a small point or centre, and continually grow on the surface, whereby they become circumscribed, and are constituted wholly of the new material which has been thrown out. This is the case in cancer and tubercle. In the syphilitic tumor, however, the exudation appears to have been, in the first place, of a soft and albuminous character, and, being poured out in large quantity, has infiltrated the tissue; consequently, when examined, the lymph md the original structure of the part are found incorporated. At a subsequent period, when this has become hard, if a portion be examined by the microscope, the muscular structure will still be found present in the apparently simple, hard, fibrous mass; and thus it is that if appropriate remedies be given at an early period, the tissue will be left in its integrity after the adventitious material has been absorbed. This is every-day experience as regards the tongue. In consequence, also, of the lymph being poured out,and not growing friim a centre, the diseased mass is not so circum- scribed as a new growth, and the lymph or fibre will be found radiating into the muscular tissue around." In the liver the same process occurs. In this organ the nodules are not seen, as a rule, until after some years of their existence. They are then hard, more or less circumscribed, but found shooting out their fibrous rays into the sur- rounding hepatic tissue. In this case, also, owing to the contraction which takes place, there is often left a remarkable cicatriform appearance on the surface. It is this exudation, or fibro-plastic ma- terial, and subsequent contraction, which pecu- liarises the disease. The deposit which is left in the liver and other organs has generally had a long existence there before it comes under our notice, and then, when submitted to examination by the microscope, is found to contain fibro-plastic ele- ments, small nuclei, fatty granules, and some amorphous matter. By French and German writers the term ' gummy tumor' is used to designate lliese syphilitic deposits." Aftfr stating that tlie sequelfe of syphilis are manifested in the lungs, liver, and other organs, not by deposits in nodules, but by a degeneration of the fatt}', Iardaceous, or waxy character, he goes on to say: "'The subject, therefore, frames Itself to rny mind in this way : that the so-called secondary sj'philis should be simply styled syphilis, and that the disease is known to exist so long as certain phenomena occur, these being exemplified more especially by tiie exudation of lymph in the various tissues of the body, thus showing that a morbid action is still in existence, and, according to some authors, a virus capable of being propagated in various direct and indirect manners. This virus may be exterminated by remedies, or may wear itself out, and the patient recover iiis health; but not infrequently, as a