.58 INFLAMMATION in the quality or in tlie velocity of the blood. If the velocity be altered the quality is altered. Changes in the fluids, whether for good or evil, whether constituting disease or produced by the physician,must obey mechanical laws. The blood is reduced to its natural state by the constant churning of the heart and lungs ; by which the chyle is made blood, solely through change in the quality of its particles. One chief cause of disease is over-eating, whereby the blood is made too copi- ous and too viscid. In inflammation this viscid blood stagnates in the part affected. In fevers there is too great tenuity of the blood, so that the heart's impulse causes it to move with unnatural velocity Crises are nothing but changes in the dimensions of morbific particles in the blood caused by increased circulation, and fitting them for ex- cretion through the proper vessels. Bleeding is the grand remedy. , • , The nature of the mathematical and mechanical doctrines may be illustrated further by the way in which they were applied to therapeutics, and e'^pecialiy to explain the eood elfects of mercury m inflammation. In 1G94 M. Belloste, surgeon in the Sardinian armv, published an account of mer- cnrv, which he describes as the greatest gift o Pro'vidence in the whole Materia Mecbca. Th( mercury should be in the metallic form, and sub- divided into the minutest globules. In this state it is taken up with the chyle, circulates with the blood, strikes against the blood gh.bules, breaks up coaculations and obstructions in the vessels, renders the blood more fluid, insinuates itself into every place, dispersing everything not naturally united, and as its particles are spherical, they cannot irritate, like the " pointed, hooked, and keen particles of mercury in chemical combination. {Hos- pital Surgeon, hy Aiigustin Belloste, Lond. ^°So"also the work of John Astrnc (J. 1684, d. 1766), physician- to the king of France on venereal diseases, contains (edition ot 1/54 book ii., ch. 10) an account of the mode ot action of mercury, which may serve as an ex- cellent illustration of the theories of those who accounted for all the processes of life on me- chanical grounds. This author undertakes to prove, by a long series of postulata, propositions, lemmata, and corollaries, that the greater specihc gravity of mercury gives gl^^ules a veloc, j fourteen times greater than that of the blood in which they circulate; and that consequently ob- structions which prevent the passage ot blooa through the minute vessels will sometimes give wav before the more powerful impetus ot the globules of mercury. Moreover, that the blood and other fluids, if they are too ^'Bcid w. 11 be broken up and rendered thinner by the velocity of the circulating globules; and that by the sanie agents " the venereal poison, whatever it be, o wheresoever it lies, by the repeated action of t c mercurial globules, maybe so divided broken, aid comminuted, as to be subdued at las , and d s- charged by some of the secretory these means, he says, mercury when ^ ^fj^ perlv, attenuates the fluids, scours '^e vessels, restm-es the oscillatory motion of the solids, re moves the obstructions, dispels the venereal poison, and absolutely extirpates the disease. We get further advance in the opinions ot Her- mann Boerhaave (6.1668,(7. 1738), which are summed up in his « Aphorisms" (transl. 1742 from the last Latin ed. of 1728) where he states (No. 371) that inflammation is "an attrition of the red arterial blood stagnating in the smallest vessels, occasioned by the motion of the blood circulating with greater force in the larger vessels. Which therefore may take place either in the extremities of the smallest arteries, or in the arterial lympha- tic vessels, they being incapable of transmitting the red globules received by their dilated orifices through their extremities. So that its seat is in every 'part of the body where there is a tissue, that is, abundance of arteries dispersed in the manner of a net, and wherever the lymphatic arteries have their beginning. This stagnation is caused in the smallest arteries by whatever makes the ends of the vessels in their cones and cylinders so narrow that the diameter of their orifice is made less than the diameter of the globule of the blood. In the lymphatic ar^nal vessels it is occasioned by all causes which stretch their mouths so wide as to give entrance to the coarse parts of the blood, which being drove in deeper, meet with narrow passages that give wav ■ also, by all causes of inflammation m the blood-vessels. But as often as these causes have occasioned that stagnation, then doth the power of the blood, pushed on by the remaining vital strength, occasion some eftects, which are at the same time signs of a present inflammation ; i. e., distension of vessels, pain, redness, heat &c. The chain of causes is given as follows: A too great flow of the " nervous juice being directed to the heart and large vessels, and the motion of the blood being increased in the vessels, there results " a strong resistance of the vessels against tiie blood, a strong pressure of the blood upon the sides of the vessels, a violent rubbing of the vessels and the blood against each other, a strong rubbing of the several parts of the blood among each other ; a greater heat ot the whole, a drying up of the blood, and consequent viscosity," &c. . . . ^ , The account given of suppuration is that the vessels let out their ^ Squids, break and corrupt, and dissolve into pus." . The doctrine of fevers is summed up in these words : " So that the too quick contraction ot the heart, with an increased resistance at the end ot the capillary vessels, is sufficient to complete in us the idea of all acute fevers." {Aplionsmt de cngnoscendis et ctirandis morhis. Ed. 4 to. Lug. liat. ^'in'an eloquent academical address-" ZJywi* ratiodnii mechaniei in Mcdicimi, —delivered at Leyden in 1703, Boerhaave advocated the intro- duction of mechanical theories of disease in place of the prevailing vital and chemical theories. The enthusiasm with which he followed up this mode of argument, so as to lead hnnself into fresh errors while he exposed old ones, is strongly marked in this address. " 1 can scarcely restrain myself," he says in one place, " from declaring that the causes of the most complicated diseases are more simple and more mechanical than any sincle physician now imagines. In the history of doctrine we may next refer to De Gorter, Professor at Leyden, who develops the ideas of "lentor" and »viscdity of the blood, of obstruction of the arteries by >t. ot local irritation as causing afflux. In his treatise