Fuiiclions, p. 2(!2, edit. 2.) If this position bo as another instance of tho fact, lie had, seen some truth in this observation, it is far from being sufficiently accurate to. bring within its scope a mul- titude of diseases which are classed as tumors; it seems to me to have proceeded perhaps from an immoderate desiie to generalise. Mr. Abernethy thinks that the manner in which tumors are formed is best illustrated by those which hang pendulous from the membranous linuig of different cavities. This gentleman adverts to an example noticed by Mr. liuater, in which, on the cavity of the abdomen being opened, there appeared lying upon the peritoneum a small portion of red blood recently coagulated. This, on examination, was found to be connected with the surface, upon which it had b«en deposited, by means of an attachment, half an inch long^ and this neck had been formed before the coagulum had lost its red colour. (See Trans, for tlie Improvement of Med. and Chir. Kuotvledye, Yo\. i. ^. 231.) Mr. Abernethy observes, that if vessels had shot through the slender neck, and organised the clot of blood, this would then have become a living part; it might have grown to an indefinite magnitude, and its nature and progress would probably have de- pended on the organisation which it had assumed. He mentions his possession of a pendulous, tumor, found growing from the surface of the peritoneum, and which was undoubtedly formed in the same manner as the tumor noticed by Mr. Hunter, viz. by vessels shooting into a piece of extravasated blood, or lymph, and rendering it a living organised substance (p. 9). Tumors, in every situation, and of every description, are probably formed in the same way. The coagulating lymph being effused, either accidentally or in consequence of disease, is afterwards converted into a living part by the growth of the adjacent vessels, if not the nerves, into it. Mr. Abernethy remarks that " when the deposited substance has its attachment by a single thread, ail its vascular supply must proceed through that part; but, in other cases, the vessels shoot into it irregularly at various parts of its surface. Thus, an unorganised concrete be- comes a living tumor, which has at first no per- ceptible peculiarity as to its nature; although it derives a supply of nourishment from the sur- rounding parts, it seems to live and grow by its own independent powers; and the future structure which it may acquire seems to depend on the ope- ration of its own vessels." Mr. Abernethy con- ceives that the altered structure of an enlarged gland affords no contradictiau to the above account, as, in this latter case, the substance of the gland is the matrix, in which the matter forming the tumor, or enlargement, is deposited. Tlie structure of a tumor, Mr. Abernethy ob- serves (p. 10), is sometimes like that of the parts near which it grows. Such as are pendulous in joints are cartilaginous, or osseous. Fatty tumors frequently form in the midst of the adipose sub- stance, and he has seen some tumors growing from the palate, which had a slender attachment, and resemliled the palate in structure. However, this resemblance of the structure of a tumor to that of tiie neighbouring part--, is not always ob- servable. I had in my own possession a com- pletely cartihiginous tumor, which I found in the midst of the fat near the kidneys. The pen- dulous portion of fat, growing from the peri- toneum, and mentioned by Mr. Abernethy, serves OR. 791 bony tumors which were unconnected with bone, or the periosteum; and he observes, that the structure of a tumor is, in general, unlike that of the part in which it is produced. Therefore, he felt warranted in concluding, that in many cases the nature of the tumor depended on its own actions and organisation; and that, like the em- bryon, it merely receives nourishment from the surrounding parts (p. 11). Mr. Abernethy suspects, that the irritation of the tumor itself, when once the swelling has been produced, keeps up, an. increased action in the sur- rounding vessels, so as to become a sufficient cause of the disease continuing to grow larger. As the tumor becomes of greater magnitude, it condenses the surrounding cellular substance, and thus makes for itself a sort of capsule. The close, or loose, manner in which tumors become con- nected with the surrounding parts, seems to de- pend very miich on the degree of irritation and inflammation excited in the circumjacent parts. When a tumor has been at all tender, painful, and inflamed, it is generally found intimately ad- herent to all the neighbouring parts. Mr. Abernethy also believes, that the increased irritation which a tumor creates when it has exceeded a certain size, may explain why some tumors, which are at first slow in their progress, afterwards begin to grow witii great rapidity (p. 13, 14). It appears,,then, from the preceding observa- tions, that a tumor is a new growth, or the de- posit of an adventitious substance upon, amongst, or within, the textures of the body; the addition being in the latter ease made to them in tiie way of a molecular deposit, whereby these textures or organs acquire increased magnitude, so as them- selves at once to constitute swellings, and undergo changes, or obliteration of original structure. As an illustration, fungus hiematodes, or medullary cancer, may be cited, which is a new growth, or deposit, met with in three distinct forms; some- times as a new product enclosed in a cyst; some- times as a new formation unprovided with any cyst; and, in other instances, as an infiltration in the substance of an organ. But whoever wishes to pursue this part of the inquiry further, should carefully study Carsivell's Illuslraiions of the Ele- mentary Furms of Disease, in which it is most ably considered, as well as works of more recent date. The pqocess by which tumors are formed has fometinjes been thought to be attended with an in- creased action of the vessels which supply them with blood. It has been compared to the process which forms all the thickenings and indurations met with, under various circumstances, in diHerent parts of the liuman body; and has often been re- ferred to chronie inflammation. This subject of clironic or passive inflannnation is one about which, so far as particular forms of it are concerned, very little certain is known ; and even the name itself lias commonly been admitted only on the suppo- sition that sunie kind of increased action exists in the vessels, though of a slower and less evident kind than what prevails in acute inflammation. According to Dr. "VVilson Philip, the dillerence be- tween what is called active ami passive inflamma- tion seems to depend upon " the degree in which the arteries, supplying the vis a lenjo to the debili- tated vessels, are excited."—{Laws of the Vital