VENEREAL DISEASE. 915 manus and Alexander Benedictus, who were both in the Venetian army at the time of the siege of Naples. They both published on the venereal dis- ease a year after its first supposed appearance, and gave an account of the primary and secondary symptoms pretty exactly resembling those which we now observe. It will be admitted that all the simple and non- venereal, with some of the pseudo-syphilitic, affec- tions, attacking either the genitals, the skin, the throat, or the bones, which in the present day it is difficult, sometimes impossible, to distinguish from the effects of the true syphilitic poison, had existed previous to the year 149a. Of this nature would be excoriations and simple ulcers of the penis, fol- lowed by sympathetic buboes ; vaginal and ure- thral discharges, the latter accompanied by all the distressing symptoms attendant on a gonorrhoea ai-ising from a specific poison; buboes resulting from this, or from other local or constitutional causes; stricture, urinary abscesses, inflammation of the genitals, followed by phimosis, paraphimosis, and niortification,even phagedtenic ulcerationsattacking those parts; warts, excrescences, &c.—all of which differ so slightly in their external characters from venereal affections, that medical practitioners of the fifteenth century might well be pardoned if they failed to distinguish them ; indeed, their non-con- tagious character, which time alone could establish, furnishes to this day the principal criterion by which they may be separated from the specific dis- ease. Add to these the numerous tribe of cuta- neous affections, papular, pustular, tubercular, and scaly, which the practised eye of a surgeon of the present daj- can recognise when caused by the pre- sence of the venereal poison in the system; yet the character which this imprints upon them is so slight, that the attempt to convey in words the dif- ference between a simple and a syphilitic eruption in either of the above classes of skin-disease, would prove altogether fruitless to those previously unacquainted with them. The distressing cata- logue of affections of the bones, attributed even in the present day by many to the influence of mer- cury, by some to the poison of syphilis, and by others to the combined effects of both these power- ful agents, would add greatly to the difficulties of the first observers of this multiform disease ; and even these affections of the bones, the caries, the exfoliations, the thickening of periosteum, &c., assume the same external character as when aris- ing from causes other than the poison of syphilis or mercury. The individual symptoms, then characterising this disease, had undoubtedly been met with before ; but the knowledge that there existed an animal poison attacking especially the human species, which was found to produce in regular sequence many of the symptoms above enume- rated, and which was transferable by commerce between the sexes, was indeed a new fact of the first importance, and well deserving the name of a discovery. It was forced into notice probably at this time by the notorious pn fligacy of the age, as well as by the transfer of masses of men into other countries necessarily giving rise to a greater amount of promiscuous sexual intercourse. The notion of a new and contagions disease, when once presented to the human mind, under the alarm and panic which it was calcidated to pro- duce, spread with surprising rapidity; and as early as the year 1496 we find the disease not only men- tioned, but its presence recognised in all quarters of the globe. Under the supposition that the disease was of recent introduction, it would be difficult to account for the extraordinary rapidity of its spread and increase ; but there would be no surprise that it should be thus quickly recognised all over the world, had it existed previously under the form of its various isolated symptoms, now for the first time grouped together as forming one complete disease arising from an animal poison, whose existence had hitherto been overlooked. A disease, however, supposed to produce such varied symptoms, and spreading with such fright- ful rapidity, it must be admitted, was well calcu- lated to hurry the medical man into too ready an acquiescence in the notion that the disease itself was entirely new in this quarter of the globe. The historian relying implicitly on the assertions of the physicians of the day, that the disease was alto- gether new in Europe, cuuld hardly avoid the con- clusion come to by Gon9a!o Fernandez, who, while President in Hispaniola, ascertained distinctly from the natives that the malady of which the Europeans seemed to entertain so great a dread, had long been known amongst them. There is no difficulty in procuring evidence that intractable ulcers on the genitals, attributed to in- tercourse with a diseased person ("cum fceda muliere "), had been noticed by medical writers centuries before the supposed appearance of the venereal poison in Europe. Dr. Weatherhead, in his second chapter on this subject, gives many instances in point: one or two we shall select as showing the kind of testimony that may be brought to bear on the side of the question we are now advocating. Amongst the Arabian physicians, Avicenna, Albucasis, and some so far back as the eighth century, mention ulcers and warts on the penis. Avicenna divides the ulcers into recent, inveterate, and malignant; some of them, he says, may require amputation of the member. Guliel- mus de Saliceto, who died in the year 1280, treats of buboes arising from disease of the penis, con- tracted by intercourse with an infected prostitute ("et fit cum homo infermatur in virga propter foedam meritricem." [Chiricrgia, lib. 1, chap. 42.) He also states that these ulcers sometimes become phagedasnic, and destroy the patient; and recom- mends the actual cauterj' to them. Lanfranco, a pupil of Saliceto, in the year 1296, wrote his Ars completa totius Chirurgim, in which he speaks of abscesses in the groin supervening on impure intercourse, and which were again com- municable between the sexes:—" Ulcera veniunt ex pustulis calidis vergre supervenientibus qua; postea crepantur, ex commixtione cum foeda muliere qua; cum ajgro talem habento morbum de novo coierat." (Tr. iii. doct. iii. chap. 2.) Lanfranco also had recourse to the actual cautery in treating these ulcers, and recommended a lotion of vinegar and water as a preventive against the infection. In the year 1.S02, Doglione informs us {Cose Nolabili de Venelia) that diseases of the genital organs had become so common in Venice at that period, that a fine of twenty soldi was imposed each time on whoever communicated such affections. A noted professor at Montpelier—Valesco—at the close of the fourteenth contury, mentions pustules and ulcers of the penis, which he attributes to "coitus ;j N 2