402 Bymptoms. This alkaloid tas, however, been more carefully examined of late by Claude Bernard, Charles Line', Lecomte,Behier, myself, and others, as well as by Dr. Debout, who experimented upon himself. So that the effects both of stomachic and hypodermic doses are pretty well established. According to Claude Bernard, the sleep produced by narceine has its own peculiar characters. It is a more profound sleep than that of codeine, but on the other liand it is not the heavy sleep of lead (sommeil de plomb) which morphine produces in BO high a degree, but there is in the narceine sleep a Blight dulling oi the nerves of sensibility. Theie is a perfect calm without the least agitation Un wakin.^ the animals, they return very rapidly to their natural state, and very slight excitation is necessary to arouse them. M. Le Dr. Laborde investigated the action of this alkaloid upon chil dren in the Hospital des Enfans (Pans) and believes that the narceine sleep has this merit, that upon children the waking from sleep is not accom- panied by any of the distressing phenomena- he heaviness of the head, the painful sensations of h digestive canal, &c., which follow the use of th other alkaloids of opium. Dr. Debou s res upon adults are much the same. He also thinks the sleep is lighter, the brain is not congested, nor do painful dreams occur from its use. Behier in his conclusions, considers that u calms the'cough and diminishes the expectoration of phthisical patients. 2. When subcutaneously injected it calms pain like other narcotics, and in the same doses" (which is somewhat vague, so much do doses differ). 3. That it notably sus- pends the excretion of urine without _ destroying or modifving the sensation of the besoin d ur.ner Chas Line believes "narceine is incontestibly oi all the alkaloids of opium the one which possesses the dormitive power pushed to the highest degree, With equal doses, in the majority of cases neither morphine nor codeine produce so prolonged or complete a sleep." 2. The unpleasant symptoms, vomiting, &c., are less intense than from morphine. 3 It will often remove pain which morphine tails to influence, and so will morphine, vice versa. My own opinion of its hypodermical action is in favour of the above-quoted statements, ^v^ih modification. It certainly has more power than codeine as an anodyne, and much the same power as a narcotic. I consider it less curative in its action on pain than morphine is, but I cannot find equal doses of those two alkaloids to have equal effect. I think the truth is more nearly expressed when I say one grain of narceine is the equiva en of half a grain of morphine. Certainly less cerebra disturbance follows the injection of narceine, but I have also several times found it inert. _ Narceine may be administered m solution in doses of from quarter of a grain to one or two grains. As a syrup (Guillemette), citric acid is used to dissolve it. i ■ t. For hypodermic injection I employ this strength: narceine gr. v.; ac. hydrochloric m ii-; aquas calida; 111 xl. To be used warm. We come now to the non-soporific alkaloids narcotine, thebaine, and papaverine. Of these little is at present known. Narcotine and thebaine are considered by Claude Bernard as the exciting substances of opium. Thebaine he thinks nets upon the upper or corvico-dorsal portion of the spinal marrow; narcotine upon the cerebral hemispheres. OPIUM. These alkaloids are called toxic in contradistinc- tion to those which before death produce sleep. Thebaine he considers the most poisonous, and curiously enough morphine the least so; thus you can kill a dog by injecting one deci-gramme of thebaine into the veins, but you may inject two grammes of the hydrochlorate of morphine without causing death. Codeine he considers next to thebaine as a poison. Thebaine causes death by convulsions and arrest of the heart's action. So may the others, but narceine is the exception; it is neither excitant nor convulsive. Given m a poisonous dose, the animals die " dans le relache- ment." {Arch. Ghiarales, 1864, p. 461.) "Of the exciting agents," says Dr. Brown- Sequard, " there is one which will probably be soon employed in medicine; it is thebaine. This alka- loid, according to Bernard, causes violent convul- sions ; but it will be found a precious remedj% if, as stated by Orfila Majendie, and quite recently by Ozanam, it produces tetanic convulsions, chieilyin the arms." Narcotine has no narcotic action, neither has it yet been used in medicine. Antidotes to Opium Poisoning.—The first indi- cation is to remove the poison from the stomach; the second, to neutralize any that may remain; the third, to counteract the effects of that abready absorbed. If the poison can be evacuated at once, no dan- gerous symptoms need follow. To make the person vomit, mustard or salt emetics may be used, or the back of the throat tickled with a feather or the finger. If the stomach-pump is at hand it is the most effectual. Antimony might be subcutaneously injected, if other emetics failed. There is no known chemical antidote (imless it is atropine) to opium, although infusion of galls, magnesia, iodine, and chlorine have been recom- mended. Atropine and belladonna have frequently and rapidly aroused animals which I had pre- viously narcotised with morphine, but they are remedies which if administered in doses at all large may only deepen the narcotic sleep. They are, therefore, best administered by the hypo- dermic injection, as their action can by that means be exactly regulated and excess avoided. If nar- cotism has gone to any extent the breathmg will be stertorous and very slow, the pulse slower than usual, the pupils closely contracted, the brain too insensible to be easily or at all aroused. The chiet treatment must then, in addition to that above mentioned, be directed to avoiding death by apnoea (the cessation of respiratory action) and to restoring the sensibility of the nervous system. For these purposes the best are cold o^/sto«s fre- quently and suddenly applied; walking the patient about, if it is possible to wake him; ammonia to be frequently breathed ; sinapisms to the legs arms, and chest; and above all things, and the Boonerthebetter, artificial respirai,on jl-^ d"i g seems great. Life may often be saved by keeping „p artificial respiration until the poison is so far ehminated from the circulation that the p nt can be trusted to carry on h.s own b eatlung^ Several cases are on record in which 1 fe ha b en restored after three, four,more four b^d^^^^ gent perseverance with artmcia v fSee Mr Smith's case, Med. C/m. Hans. XJr.. S- and Marshall mil on Droivmng, Lond.) The Marshall Hall method is for many reasonsi