TREPHINE. 779 practice (Op. Chii: part 2, p. 192); and Warner iipplied tlie trepan to the liuiibdoidal suture. (Ubs. 2.) See also Vclpeait, de VOph: dii Ti tpmi, p. 120'. By means of u perforation practised over the sagittal suture, Oarengeot successfully elevated a portion of bone, which pressed upon the longitu dinal sinus. The depressed piece of the cranium could not have been so advantageously raised had the trepan been applied in any other situation. But a still stronger argument in ftivour of this practice, when the case at all requires it, is the fact that wounds of the longitudinal sinus, and tlie hemorrhage resulting from them, are not at- tended with any serious danger. Sharp mentions his having twice seen a bleeding of tliis kind. Anotlier instance is also recorded inWarner's Cases. A cliild received a wound on its forehead; the two parietal bones were fnictured, and a portion of each was depressed on the dura mater. The child lived a month, without an}' operation being per- formed; but, at the end of this time, Warner ap- plied the trepan. lie found a splinter of bone sticking in such a way into the longitudinal sinus, that it could not easily be got out; consequently, he enlarged with a lancet the opening in which the splinter was entangled. The hsemorrhage, which was copious, was easily suppressed by the application of a little dry lint, and the child was relieved, though it died at the end of two months, alter suffering a variety of symptoms, which had no connection with the wound of the sinus, the opening of which soon healed. The fourth case, related by Mardiettis, also proves that wounds of the longitudinal sinus are not fatal. Pott and Cal- lisen have recorded other facts tending to the same conclusion. (See Si/st. Chii: Hodieince, pars i. p. 659, ed. I70a.) The following case was communicated to M, Velpeau by M. Champion. " I removed (says the latter) the two upper thirds of the occipital bone, which had been broken in pieces in a boy twelve Tears old. In taking away one fragment op- posite the torcular Heropiiili, the blood from tliis point gushed out to the distance of more than two feet, and extinguished the candle. I placed some charpie over the part, and held it there with the little finger of my left hand, and by the time that all the pieces of bone had been removed and raised, there was no more bleeding." (See Vel- peau, da rOpi i: dit Trepan, p. 129.) If a vein is so placed that it will admit of compression, the bleeding from it, however large the vessel nniy be, may generally be commanded with facility. Wlienever a depressed fracture can be elevated to its proper level without applying the trephine, and with the mere aid of a pair of forceps or an elevator, trepliining should never be performed unless there he strong reason to apprehend that blood or matter, lodged on the surface of the dura mater, contributes to the production of the bad symptoms, and cannot otherwise bo discharged. " In order to gain space for the disentanglement of the depressed bone,and for the efficient applica- tion of the elevator, it is in many cases necessary to remove a circular piece of bone. This is go nerally done, so as to attain the desired object most readily as near as possible to ilie point where the force has been applied. In very bad and ex- tensive fractures, large portions may be found en- tirely detached and loose, but very frequently the depressed portion is not separated. On one side, the bone is cracked and bent down ; that part which has been struck is generally driven more deeply towards the cavity, and is wedged under the sound portion. By removing part of the latter t' e elevator can be introduced witlyidvantage under the depressed piece. The crown of the trephine is therefore applied so as to overlap sliglitly the injured part, and to remove the broken edge." (See Lislon on Pnicticul Surgerjj, p. 47.) The scalp and aponeurosis of the occipito-fron- talis, having been divided, if necessary, and the pericranium scraped from the bone, according to the common precepts, the next thing is the appli- cation of the crown of the trephine. The surgeon is first to make a little impression with the point of the centre-pin, for the purpose of marking the place where it will work, when the crown of the trephine is applied in the proper situation; for where such impression is made, the operator must make a small hole with a perforator, in order to fix the point of the centre-pin, on which the crown of the instrument turns backwards and forward, as on an axis, during the first stage of the operation. However, the generality of centre- pins make a perforation without need of any par- ticular instrument for the purpose, and in thia respect are advantageous. ■ The point of the centre-pin having been fixed, the trephine is to be turned by regular semi-circu- lar motions, alternately to the right and left, which object is effected by steady pronations and supin- ations of the operator's hand, the pressure being only made in turning the instrument from the left to the right. (ZjV/ok, 0/7. cit. p. 47.) The teeth of the saw having made a manifest circular groove in which they can steadily work, the centre-pin becomes useless,; and, as it would, if not with- drawn or removed, certainly injure the dura mater and brain, by reason of its projecting further than any other part of the instrument, it would be an unpardonable blunder to let it remain after a proper circular groove had been formed by the teeth of the saw. The beginning of the sawing may be executed boldly and quickly; for the operator runs no hazard of doing mischief. It is necessary occasional!}'-, with the view of facilitating the aciion of the instru- ment, to clean away the particles of bony matter with a little brush, usually kept for the purpose in every box of trephining instruments. Were this plan neglected, the action of the cylindrical saw would be very much clogged. The operator, however, must increase his cau- tion when the sawing has nuido greater progress; for, were he to be too bold, he might sometimes lacerate the membranes of the brain with the teeth of the instrument, particularly as the thickness of the cranium is subject to infinite variety, botli in different parts of the same head, and in different subjects. Let the surgeon, therefore, never forget to examine frequently, with the point of a quill, or thin end of a probe, whether any part of the circular groove is cut through or nearly so; fin- when this is the case, the instrument must only ba worked in such a way as to make pressure u]ion, and cut, the part of the circle which yet remains to be divided. In some few cases, it is said that the surgeon can distinctly feel when the teeth of the saw reiich the diploe, or medullary structure between the two tables of the cranium; and some