1 teguments in the corner of the eye, the complaint often presents an eiysipelatous appearance, extend- ing to the eyelids and down the cheek; but tlie circumscribed swelling, caused by the inflamed sac, is still not only capable of being distinctly felt, but even seen. It rarely happens, in cases of common inflammation, that, on the change of the first stage into the second, the nasal duct is ren- dered impervious by an effiision of lymph ; but such an occurrence is more frequent when the in- flammation is not of a healthy description, and the patient is scrofulous. Under these circumstances, the lachrymal canals may also be permanently obliterated. In weak, irritable constitutions, to- wards the end of the first stage of the inflammation a degree of symptomatic fever prevails, with severe headache, great redness and swelling of the whole inner eanthus, involving the caruncula lachrymalis, the semilunar fold, the conjunctiva, the edges of the eyelids, and the lachrymal puncta. Here, as in inflammation of every mucous mem- brane, at the very commencement of the second stage, a copious morbid secretion takes place, and accumulates in large quantity : for, either in con- sequence of the thickening of the mucous mem- brane, the adhesion of the sides of the nasal duct together, or there being no mixture of the tears, the secretion within the sac cannot escape either into the nostril, or out of the lachrymal puncta, and consequently it distends in a prodigious degree the anterior side of the sac, where it is uncovered by bone. Hence, the swelling is here very manifest, and a fluctuation may be felt in it, even before the suppurative stage has actually begun. Accordin^r to Beer, whoever is induced by tlie fluctuation to open the lachrymal sac at this period, will cer- tamly bring on a very hurtful suppuration of the part, exceedmgly likely to render the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs completely unser- viceable. At the beginning of the second stage, there is also a morbid secretion from the mucous membrane of the nostril and caruncula lachry- mahs. Now, not only the swelling of the lachry- mal sac increases more and more, but the redness acquires a deeper colour, the skin becomes more shining, the fluctuation still more evident; and at length, in the centre of the tumour formed by the lachrymal sac, a yellowish, soft point presents Itself, In this state of things in order to prevent a true fistula, the surgeon should make an open- ing _m the lachrymal sac, without the least delay • for, If the abscess be left to itself, the pus will at last make a passage for itself through the orbicular muscle and integuments ; but it will only be a small fistulous opening, surrounded with callous Jiardness, and merely capable of letting some of the pus and mucus of the sac escape, so that the thicker part of the matter remains behind, and conse- fn'l .""8^ ^^'^ ''^'^"■"g diminishes after the enTr»,lM '^"T'"'''' "P'^"'"S. if does not ent rely eubside A quantity of blood is also re- Tnc Th "^'f"^ 'I'^^harge from the /n!; J./ fdenominates a i rs^ oMt2 : "1'^^^^ When the abscoss mtrsts of Itself, the fistulous opening in the sac is not ahvays exactly opposite the apertL in the ski ' cation with the sac, it sometimes happens th-it enongh ; for, on pressing upon the upper portion of LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. . igg that receptacle mucus and pus, blended together, are immediately discharged from all tlie fistulous apertures. After the disease has lasted a eood while, it not nnfrequently happens, that tears are also voided from the fistulous opening; a circum- stance, indicating the restored action of the lachry- mal puncta and canals; but, according to Beer such tears are never duly blended with the mucous and purulent matter. He further remarks, that, when the second period of the second stage, or the suppurative process is over, a morbid secretion of mucus still continues in the third period of the se- cond stage, that secretion becoming whitish, thick, opaque, and only partly resembling pus. As, in consequence of its thickness, and the swelling of the mucous membrane of the nasal duct, the secre- tion cannot descend into the nose, it collects in the sac, and sometimes pushes olF any piece of lint, or plaster, with which the external opening in the sac has been closed. At length, by means of judicious treatment, this third period of the second stage is also brought to a termination ; the mucus is secret- ed again in due quantity ; it becomes transparent like white-of-egg, and viscid ; but white streaks may be for some time perceived in it. Afterwards the mucus becomes thinner, and, if the functions of the lachrymal puncta and ducts are not de- stroyed, it is thoroughly mixed with the tears. The opening in the lachrymal sac now either heals up of itself, or under skilful treatment; but, in general, a minute fistulous aperture still remains, irom which the tears and mucus are occasionally voided, if the passage through the nasal duct be not free. However, if the small fistulous aperture should happen to heal up completely, the mucus and tears accumulate in the sac, and the patient is obliged to press them out through the puncta la- chrymalia, several times a day. When the surgeon is consulted early enough, and proper treatment is adopted. Beer sets down the prognosis in the first stage of the inflammation as very favourable. But, if.the practitioner be called in later, it will not be in his power com- pletely to disperse the inflammation, and prevent the morbid secretion, and accumulation of mucus in the lachrymal sac; the Blennorrliaia, of Beer, or tbeducyopsblemioideus, of Schmidt; a state, how- ever, which soon gives way to judicious treatment. But, when the case is neglected, or wroncly managed at the period when the lachrymal sac is violently inflamed, a complete, or partial, closure ot the nasal duct by adhesive inflammation is apt to be the consequence. And, the same efi'ect may also be produced in the lachrymal canals, in which event, the absorption of the tears is for ever im- peded, and the patient must remain the rest of his life afflicted with stillicidium lachrymarum. With regard to the prognosis in the second stage of inflammation of tlie lachrymal sac, Beer considers it as very dubious, on account of the impairment of the functions of the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs ; for, says he, no surgeon can exactly know, what may have been the result of the first stage, in relation to the perviousness of the nasal duct and lachrymal canals, and an oflicious examination of the parts with a probe for the purpose of obtaining information, would be' attended with considerable mischief. However generally speaking, the prognosis is most hopeful at the first period of the second stage, just when the morbid secretion of mucus is beginning ; the M 2