MORTIFICATION, 308 lead to a mortified part. This occiivreiice takes place for some distance from the slough, and is the reason why the separation of a mortified limb is seldom followed by hteraorrhage. The same occurrence also affords an explana- tion why, on the amputation of a mortified limb, there is sometimes no hajraorrhage from the vessels, although the incisions are made in the living part. This fact was first particularly pointed out by Petit, the surgeon. {SeeMemoiyodel'Acad.des Sciences, 1732.) " When a gangrened limb (says this celebrated surgeon) is cut off in the dead part, no htemorrhage occurs, because the blood is co- agulated a great way in the vessels." He adds, " We have several examples of limbs amputated, on account of gangrene, in which no ha2raorrhage occurred, although the amputation was made a considerable way in the living parts ; because the clot was not confined in these cases to the dead part, but was continued forwards into the living, as far as the inflammatory disposition extended." According to Dr. Thomson, cases in confir- mation of the foregoing statement are recorded by other practical writers, especially Quesnay and Mr. O'Halloran. In one of the cases, mentioned by the latter gentleman, and in which no hEeraor- rhage followed the removal of the limb, the inci sions were made four inches above the division of the dead from the living parts. Dr. Thomson has seen a still longer portion of femoral artery closed up with coagulated blood, after a mortification of the foot and leg ; and, in one example, where the mortification began in the thigh, he saw the co agulation of the blood in the external iliac, extend ing up to the origin of this vessel from the aorta. Hiemorrhage in separation of a mortified part is usually found in the class of cases which come under the definition of Hospital gangrene, sloughing phagedena, &c., or in which there is a defect in the healthy power of coagulation of the blood. If heeraorrhage occur in mortification, the vessels, of course, must be pervious, and Dr. Carswell has found them filled with fluid, or imperfectly coagu- lated blood ; and the cellular and other tissues pervaded by serosity, bloody serum, or punform fluid. . , For other examples of mortification ot tissues, see Bone, Necrosis, Cancer, Carbuncle, Erysipelas, Noma. Cmstilutional Symptoms.—V gangrene and spha- celus happen to any extent, the patient is usually troubled with an oppressive hiccough ; a symp- tom well known to the surgeon of experience, and often an indication of the mischief, when external signs are less instructive. The truth of this remark is frequently seen in strangulated hernia. , ^.^ ,. , As Dr Thomson observes, the constitutional stale " is often accompanied with great uneasiness and restlessness, dejection of spirits wildness of the looks ; and, in severe cases, with almost always more or less delirium. In the progress of the dis- ease, cold sweats, palpitations, and convulsions somelimcs occur ; a hiccough, accompanied with nausea, often comes on, and proves a most distress- ing symptom to the patient. Frequently this hic- cough is the forenmner of death. Some patients die comatose ; others, after sulToring severe pains, spasms, and delirium. But, in some, a sloxv, in others a sudden, abatement of the constitutional symptoms takes place, accompanied also with the amelioration of the local affection. The gangren- ous inflammation stops and a red line is formed by the adhesive inflammation in the extreme verge of the living parts ; the dead part separates, and granulations form ; and when the constitution has strength to sustain the injury it has received, re- covery takes place." {On Infiammaiion, p. 509.) Sphacelus from extreme debility, or from such a state of the system as attends the 8curv3', typhoid fevers, &e., is constantly perilous, because these causes are very difficult to remove. It is also a fact that, when numerous causes are combined, it is an unfavourable occurrence, not merely be- cause the surgeon is apt to overlook some of them, but because there are .in reality more obstacles to the cure. Humid gangrenes, which are frequently accom- panied with emphysema of the cellular tissue usually spread with great rapidity. (See James on Ivjlamnialion, p. 9G.) Sometimes a mortification spreads so slowly, that it does not occupy much extent at the end of several months, or even a whole year. A case is recorded by M. Le Groux {Tkise, I!i27), where a man, aged 66, was attacked with gangrsena senilis, which made such very slow progress that the patient did not die till the expiration of nearly a twelvemonth from the first attack on one of the toes. (See Cruveilhier, Anat. Pathol, livr. xxvii.) The case, however, is often not the less fatal on this account. The danger is never altogether over until the dead part has completely separated. The entrance of putrid matter into the circulation (says Richter) is so injurious that patients sometimes perish from this cause long after the mortification has ceased to spread. {Anfangsg. der Wundarzn. b. i. kap. 3, pp. 78, 79.) , . [The constitutional eflfects of mortitication seem to be compounded of those of feebleness and of poison. The presence of putrid matter m the blood is now proved in cases in which putrid sloughs are pent up. During the earlier part of the present century, the action of anything like blood poisoning was ignored. Thus continues our author.] Eiiolish surgeons entertain little apprehension of the"bad effects of the absorption of putrid matter in cases of mortification ; and the opinion of Mr. Guthrie mav be more correct, that nature receives the shock "through the nervous system, and not through the absorbents. {On Gunshot Wounds, p. 123, ed. 2.) ^ , But (as Sir B. Brodie observes) whenever putrid matter is pent up roimd a slough of the cellular membrane, the system is poisoned by it. The sulphuretted and carbureited hydrogen seem to pass into the circulation, producing the most dan- gerous symptoms. The incisions which relieve the tension of the skin allow these noxious gases to escape, and the relief which this affords the patient is very remarkable." Patients, in fact, in whom a putrid urinary or fffica abscess is .nc.sed seem sometimes to pass from the gales o death to comparative health. (Brodie, Op. cf. yo]. uk) The danger of sphacelus materially depends upon the size and importance of the part ailected and upon the patient's age and constitution. 1 lu S.:Lns, already specified, of the stoppage o^^ mortification, must also ""«\d>'rab y ullncnce tj e proKnosis, especially the red line at tlie edgeot the livingT>'-t«. ""d '""^'l^'""' ''^^ dead from the living parts.