900 VAGINA AND PERINEUM, RUPTURE OR LACERATION OF. natural means to a sufficient extent to free the patient from any material inconvenience, without any operation at all ; and, secondly, when there is laceration, the parts are in a condition very un- favourable for adhesive union, and the operation will therefore not unfrequently fail, while if it should succeed it is not likely to produce so firm and thick a perinseum as may be obtained if the operation is delayed till a later period. It is tlirough the writings of Dieffenbach, of Langenbfch, of Fricke, and especially in this country tiirough the persistent advocacy of Mr. Biiker Brown, to whose work on the Surgical Dis- eases of Women the reader is referred, that the attention of the profession has been called to this operation, and an immense number of patients, whose cases would have formerly been considered hopeless, have obtained permanent and complete relief. The method of operating which modern experi- ence has shown to be most efficacious, is the bring- ing together the torn surfaces, and maintaining them in apposition by means of the quill suture, after the removal of any irregularities if the opera- tion is undertaken immediately, or the careful denudation of the cicatrised surfaces if it is deferred till a later period. Different operators have suggested various mo- difications in the details of the procedure, which want of space renders it impossible to dwell upon, but the following is the plan which has been adopted by the writer with almost uniform success in nearly one hundred cases, some modifications being required according to the severity of the laceration. Referring first to the cases in which the periucBum has been torn down to but not through the sphincter muscle—the patient being placed in the lithotomy position, a portion of akin and mucous membrane is dissected off on each side of the lower half of the vulva, so as to form a raw surface, which should be about an inch and a half in length on each side, the right and left portions being continuous with each other below across the median line. It should be an inch or more in depth antero-posteriorly at the lower part next the anus, but may diminish to about half an inch in depth towards its upper part. It is better first to mark the outline of this raw surface by incisions with the scalpel, and then to dissect oflf the mucous membrane, the thinnest possible layer of which should be removed. This is better than trans- fixing the part with a knife, and cutting a sort of flap from within outwards, as recommended by some, as a smaller amount of tissue is removed, and vessels of any size are less likely to be wounded. Care should be taken that the de- nuded surface is not situated too far outwards upon the buttock, or too far inwards towards the vagina, but just where the opposite sides would naturally and readily come in contact. The deep sutures which are to hold the quills are next to be inserted. For this purpose the most convenient instrument is a strong Heedle set in a handle, with an eye near the point, and bent at a right angle at about three and a half inches from the point, the part from the angle to the point being slightly curved. This should be entered through the skm on the left side of the patient, about an inch ex- ternal to the cut surface, and be brought out plose to the posterior edge of that surface, taking hold of as much tissue as possible ; and should be then thrust onwards through the opposite side at a corresponding depth. The eye near the point may then be threaded with a strong wire suture, and the needle is withdrawn, carrying the suture with it. I am in the habit of using four deep sutures of silver wire, and of fastening them to perforated ivory bars, which represent the quills. Each ivory bar is perforated with four holes about half an inch apart. One of these should be ready threaded with two pieces of wire, each piece being looped through the two adjacent holes, and when the four sutures have been passed, they are passed through the holes in the second ivory bar, and being drawn tight, the whole is firmly secured by twisting together the ends, first of the two lower, and then of the two upper wires. By having the wires looped on the one side, no fastening is re> quired on that side, while on the other side two adjacent wires are fastened simultaneously, thus saving time, and securing a more uniform pressure on the part. The quill suture serves to hold the deeper part of the cut surfar.es in contact, but the cutaneous edges must also be held together by four or five superficial sutures of finer wire. In the case now under consideration, where the sphincter is entire, there is no occasion to divide it, as its action in no way interferes with the apposition of the cut surfaces. The patient should then be placed in bed on her side. Sufficient opium should be given to prevent the action of the bowels for the first seven or eight days, and the urine should be drawn off twice or thrice daily with a catheter. The deep sutures should be cut and removed, together with the ivory clamps, at the end of forty-eight hours. Some oedematous swelling generally takes place, but soon subsides when the pressure of the quill suture is removed. If left longer than this, irrita- tion and suppuration is apt to be set up, and no compensating advantage is obtained. The super- ficial sutures need not be removed till the sixth or seventh day, by which time tolerably firm union will in most instances have been obtained. The bowels may now be emptied by a brisk aperient, followed by an enema, and the opiates discon- tinued. The catheter may also be dispensed with. ... . In this wav a thick and firm perinffium will m most instances be obtained, and if the operation be properly performed, failure will rarely be met with, 111 the cases where the sphincter has been torn through into the rectum, somewhat greater care is necessary to secure accurate contact at the lovyer part, and especially to prevent any aperture being left between the i-ectum and vagma behind tne neulv-made perinajum. The latter untoward re- sult may be best avoided by splitting the recto- vaginal septum for a short distance in the horiMUtal direction, at the point where it forms a sor o» eperon at the centre of the torn part. tnu , by turning up the vaginal portion of the split sep^ turn, and causing the two lowest o the deep sutures to take a slight hold of U on its ra^ s^.r face as they are passed through, it will ^ cover the spot where "tl'erwise a recto-ja£..al communication might probably bo ^'"H; ?^ will, at the same time, increase the 'h-ck.^« the lower part of the new penna;uni. ^'^ r , of cases, division of the sphincter is beneficial, as