(See Proceed. Med. 67hV. 5oo., 1857.)] See Lum- B4R Abscess. O'eorffe Lewis Cooper. PSORIASIS. A scaly disease of the skin. (See Skin, diseases of.) PSOROPHTHALMY. (See Tinea Tarsi.) PTERYGIUM. (Dim. of irTcVuJ, a wing.) As Scarpa remarks, surgeons usually apply tl"e term ''pterygium" to that preternatural, reddish, ash- coloured, triangular little membrane, which most frequently grows from the internal angle of the eye, near the caruncula lachrymalis, and gradually extends over the cornea, so as to cause consider- able impediment to vision. The disease, however, presents itself sometimes in the form of a semi- transparent thin greyish membrane, not furnished with many visible vessels, and sometimes as a thick red'fibrous mass, very like muscle, being very prominent even on the cornea, where it seems to terminate in a substance-like tendon, and it is observed to be pervaded by numerous blood-vessels. The first is the pterygium tenue of Beer; the second, the pterygium crassum {Lehre von den Augenkr. b. ii. p. 636), or the membranous and fleshy pterygia of other writers. Though pterygium most commonly proceejis from the. internal angle (also Beer, b. ii. p. 637), sometimes it arises from the external, and, in rare instances, from the superior or inferior hemi- sphere of the eyeball. But, whatever be its origin, its figure is almost invariably that of a triangle, with its base on the white of the eye, and its apex more or less advanced over the cornea, towards its centre, and that of the pupil. Indeed, there are a few cases in which two or three pterygia of differ- ent sizes occur on the same eye, and are arranged round its circumference at interspaces of various breadths. Their points are directed towards the centre of the cornea, where, if they unfortunately conjoin, the whole of that transparent membrane becomes covered with an opaque veil. Tlie occur- rence of more than one pterygium on the same eye is very rare. Beer, in all his practice, met with but two cases of double pterygium, and with only one of three pterygia on the eye. (^Beer, b. ii. p. 638.) According to Scarpa (whose observationa apply chiefly to the membranous form of the disease) chronic ophthalmia with relaxation and thick- ening of the conjunctiva, opacity of the cornea, and pterygium, only differ in degree. All the three complaints seem to him to consist of a more or less extensive varicose state of tlie vessels of the conjunctiva, combined with a degree of preter- natural relaxation, and thickening of that mem- brane. On the contrary, Mr. Guthrie does not agree with Scarpa, that chronic varicose ophthalmia with relaxation and thickening of the conjunctiva, nebula of the cornea, and pterygium, are diseases differing only in degree. On the contrary, he asserts that a true pterygium is very rarely the consequence of chronic inflammation. The nebula, he observes, is never of the spear-formed shape of the pterygium, but always irregular, its progress rather from than towards the cornea, and the width of its base not equal to that of the latter disease. (See Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 128.) Pterygium is observed by Mr. Travers to be most prevalent in warm climates. {Synopsis, ^0. p. 101.) It is also said to be most frequent in old people, though Mr. Wardrop and Dr. Mon- teith have seen it in very young infants. ( Wel- PTERYGIUM. 487 ler's Manual of the Dis. of (he Eye, vol. i. p. 218.) The triangular figure of the pterygium, with its basis on the white of the eye, and its apex on the cornea, is one of its principal diagnostic characters, by which the true disease may be discriminated from every other soft, fungous, reddish excrescence obscuring the cornea. Another distinguishing character of pterygium, as Scarpa has observed, is the facility with which the whole of it may be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and raised into a fold on the cornea. Every other kind of excrescence attached to this membrane continues firmly adherent to it, and cannot be folded, and raised from the surface of the cornea, in any manner whatever. This particularity is of the highest importance in the treatment; for the genuine pterygium may be cured by simple means, while fungous excrescences of the cornea can only be radically removed, and perfectly cicatrised with the utmost difficulty. Scarpa's belief in the reality of a malignant or cancerous pterygium must appear a doctrine re- quiring confirmation, when it is considered that Mr. Travers makes no mention of such form of the diseasp, and Beer distinctly states that, in a practice of thirty-two years, he had cured 376 pterygia, of various sizes and thickness, without one bad symptom, or consequence. And hence, he concludes, that the disease is strictly local. [Beer, b. ii. p. 64:!.) The true benign pterygium, says Scarpa, which has a triangular figure, and is ash-coloured, or pale red, is free from pain, and admits of being raised in the form of a fold on the surface of the cornea, may be cured by cutting the opaque triangular little membrane accurately from the surface of the cornea, which is in part covered by it. But, as the pterygium is nothing but a portion of the delicate transparent layer of the conjunctiva, con- verted into a thick, opaque tunic, it follows that the pterygium cannot be removed in any way without the spot which it occupies on the cornea being bereft of its natural external covering, and this part of the membrane rendered more or less opaque. Scarpa's experience enables him to state, however, that the superficial, indelible speck, re- maining on the cornea, after the removal of the pterygium, is always less extensive than the space previously occupied by the disease. In the treatment of pterygia with bases extend- ing far in the white of the eye, Scarpa prefers detacliins them at their apex, as far as the junc- tion of the cornea with the sclerotica, and then to separate them at their base by a semicircular in- cision, comprehending one line in breadth of the substance of the conjunctiva, and made in a di- rection concentrical with the edge of the cornea. Scarpa has observed that, in this mode of operat- ing, the subsequent cure takes place sooner than when the common method is adopted; the cica- trix occasions no sort of frrenuni, and the con- junctiva, circularly stretched by the cicatrix, lies smoothly over the white of the eye, and loses that relaxation, and varicose state, which he considers as the groundwork of the pterygium. Such at- tention, however, is not requisite when the ptery- gium is small, and its base does not extend lar in the white of the eye. The operator, alter desiring the patient to move his eyeball towards the part corresponding to the