620 so-called lateral curvature of the spine, let us pro cced to examine THE NATURE OP THE STRUCTURAL CHANGES AFFECTING THE BONES AND THE INTERVER- TSBRAL CARTILAGES. The earliest structural changes which occur in lateral curvature of the spine are traceable, and I believe take place simultaneously, in the interver- tebral cartilages, and at the articulations formed by the oblique ■ articulating processes. These cliiinj,'es are essentially the result of atrophy and absorption produced by the long-continued irre gular distribution of the superincumbent weight of the head, upper extremities, aud thorax. Tlie iuici-verkbnd cartilages suffer from unequal compression, and become more or less wedge- shaped, according to the severity and duration of tlie curve, the thiiming of the cartibige corres ponding to the concavity of the curve. It is necessary here to remember the fact that in the vertebral column we have nearly four inches in height of this soft elastic tissue which, during the da}^, when equally compressed, diminishes in height or thickness from half to three-quarters of an inch, so that during the day we lose from half to three-quarters of an inch in height; Lut this is regained during the night, when the weight is completely removed by the recum- bent position. If, however, during the day the intervertebral cartilages should be unequally com- pressed in consequence of any long-con tinned disturbance of the equilibrium of the spinal column from any cause, the cartilages do not completely recover their natural form during re- pose, but remain permanently reduced in thick- ness bj' the compression in the concavity of the ciu've. The nature of any structuriil changes which the intervertebral cartilages may pass through as they become thiimed by irregular compression, has not, so far as I am aware, been detirmined ; but from several specimens in the more advanced stages, which I have examined microscopically, I have no doubt that these changes are essentially of an atrophic and de- generative character. The bodies of the vertebrce also become more or less wedge-shaped, but at a much later period than the intervertebral cartilages. It is, however, a common error to suppose that the bodies of the vertebra; become altered in form only in severe cases of curvature of long duration. In very slight cases of lateral curvature, when the deform- ity has existed a sufficient length of time, pro- bably one or two years, the bodies of the vertebra; become perceptibly altered in form. Length of time, then, rather than degree of curvature, is essential to the production of these changes. The bodies of the vertebree do not present on section any unhealthy appearance, at least in the late stages at which I have examined them, and there are no reasons for suspecting any changes in the texture of the bones at an early period. In cases of long duration the bones increase in so lidity in the concavity of the curve ; the cancelLius texture of the bodies of the vertebra; on the com- pressed side becomes more dense or compact in ap- pearance, and the thin layer of compact bone which naturally forms the shell or outer surface of the bi>dit8 of the vertebra;, becomes increased in thick- ness and density, so that it may bo said to be SPINE, CURVATURES OF'. replaced by a thick wall of compact bone of ivor)'- like appearance. These changes are essentially nf a reparative character, and calculated to arrest the progress of the curvature. 7'he obliijue artioiilating processes, and more es- pecially the articular facets on these processes, which form the only direct articular connections between the separate bones of the vertebral column —the bodies of the vertebra; being separated from each other by a thick layer of elastic interver- tebral cartilage—undergo very imporUmt structural changes at an early period of the formation of lateral curvature, probably even at its commence- ment. In the specimens of lateral curvature before alluded to, as well as in all the specimens in museums, the articular facets situated on the oblique articulating processes, are altered in their direction and aspects, according to the extent of the lateral deviations of the bodies of the vertebrEe. In the lumbar region, where these articular facets are naturally nearly vertical in direction, looking inwards and outwards respectively, they gradually assume, iu a severe case of lateral curvature, a very obi ique direction, so that in aspect they are directed obliquely upwards and inwards and downwards and outwards. This exists in all cases, and a little reflection on the anatomical construction of these articulations will lead to the conviction that it is impossible for any persistent deviation in the form of the spine to take place without an adapted alteration in direction of these articular facets. These very important deviations in the oblique articulating processes appear to have escaped the attention of nearly all writers on spinal curvature, and even in the works of the late Mr. John Shaw, published in 1823 aud 1820, which decidedlj' con- tain the most accurate pathological description and general account of lateral curvature in the English language, no mention is made of these deviations ; but Mr. Alexander Shaw, who was long engaged in the same field of inquiry with his late brother, and also with his relative Sir C. Bell, has accu- rately described the changes above alluded to, aud adduced them in explanation of the rotatiiui of the bodies of the vertebrce, which had been pre- viously observed by Mr. J. Shaw, and was also, at a later period, described by Sir C. Bell. Mr. A. Shaw's description is so clear and exact, and has been so completely confirmed b}' my own ob- servations, that I make no apology for extracting the following quotation ;— " If we attend to the natural structure of the spine, it will be seen that whilst we lean the body to one side, the pressure is thrown, almost extlu- sivel}', upon the articulating processes of that side; these processes, delicate as thej"^ are, being the only bony structures which check the lateral movements of the trunk. Uence, when a habit is acquired of inclining to one side, or of resting upon one hip, as in sitting, the sharp edges of these small points of bone receive the weight of the entire body. But as the articulating processes are remarkably soft, and are imperfectly formed at the age of puberty, it follows that they will be- come wasted by absorption when this position is long persisted iu, and an inequality of the length of the se two lateral props, on which the vertcbijc rest posteriorly, will be the consequence, those of the concave side being shorter than those of the convex.