i for their natural work, but are overloaded with an unnatural weight. He throws overboard Cidlen's theory that spasm of the extreme vessels is tlie cause of the oppression and weaitness in fever, and asserts that it is due to congestion of the internal organs, and supports this view by numerous records of post-mortem appearances of persons who had died of fever. Hence he advocates bleeding even in the cold stage of ague. He bled in scarlet fever, and " never had occasion to regret it," and of course his bleeding in inflammation was vigor- ous enough. John Elliotson, in his inaugural thesis at Edinburgh in 1810, Da IiiJlamiiuUiune Comiiumi, cliiefly recited the doctrines of John Burns, and declares that " so long as a white crust continues we may bleed fearlessly." He was a great bleeder. He tells us in his Lectures (edited by Rogers, Lond. 1039) that he bled in scarlet fever " if inflammatory symptoms ran high," and goes so far .as to say that the absence of the usual inflammatory characters of the pulse may not always forbid bleeding. In this decade (1830-40) bleeding attained its climax, and in the next there were symptoms of a decline. So early as 1836 G. Macilwain {Medicine and Surgery, ^c, Lond. 1838, p.264) attacked the anti- phlogistic regimen generally. " We bleed," he says, "we stop the supplies of food, we induce action of various secretions, we give rest and remedies to abate the action of the heart and arterie?." But of these, and especially of bleed- ing, he asserts (p. 270) that it is sometimes unable to stop an acute inflammation, that sometimes the acutest inflammations do well without it ; and that sometimes, when used, the recovery is due not to bleeding, but to other means. He mentions a very successful and experienced surgeon, who never bled. He renews his protest in his Lectures on Fever. {Med. Times, 1849.) In the year 1836 also appeared the admirable Elements of Medicine by Robert Williams, which greatly promoted the study of the natural course of fevers and erysipelas, declared the impossiblity of shortening the effects of morbid poisons, and hence the uselessness and mischief of violent remedies. He denounced bleeding in erysipelas, and gave wine freely. Magendie (1837) denounced it in rheumatism. We find in 1843 W. P. Alison still recom- mending Ideeding in the old terms. He employs it to weaken the heart's action by the abstraction of the stimulus by which, as Ilaller taught, its motion is habitually excited and maintained, and to cause derivation or revulsion from the diseased part. "No proposition,'' he says, "in medical science is more certain, and certainly no one is more practically important, than that which re- gards the pov/er of large and repeated blood-letting to arrest the progress of inflammation in its early stage.' But there arc in Alison's work signs of a connng change. lie complains that some " prac- titiuiieis and teachers of medicine express them- selves doubtfully as to its usefulness." This he accounts for by supposing that these eminent teachers and practitioners are not called in till diseases have got past the stage when bleeding is perniissilde; but, "as a farther and more sati.tlac- S'lry answer," he alleges " the frequent deflection nj Mjlainmaltiry disease from l/ie simple and /icall/ii/ l.o/ie, on which lilood-lettiiig exerts its nmst bemi- licial elFect." Thus we sec the earliest signs of a INFLAMMATION. ^.^^ change which has ^one hn till bleeding is as rare amongst the subjects of Queen Victoria as it was at Rome amongst the disciples of Erasistratus during the reigns of Antoninus Pius and his successors In 1820 Marshall Hall began to publish on the eff'ects of loss of blood. In 1829 he communicated a paper on the same subject to the Med. Chir. Soc. {Tra7isactions, \o\. x\v.), and in 1830 issued his volume On the Morlnd and Curative Ejects of Loss of Blood. In 1825 he had published a short essay on a condition of infants resembling hydro- cephalus, and arising from exhaustion, in which the leeching, then supposed to be the remedy for congestion of the brain, would be perilous. About the same time Kellie drew attention to the little effect of even fatal haemorrhage in draining the bram of blood {Edinburgh Med. Chir. Trans. 1828) ; and Abercrombie, in his Researches on the Dram (ed. 1828), described a state of children snnilar to that which M. Hall had spoken of. Gooch, in his Diseases of Women, 1829, in de- scribing the same state, protests against indis- criminate leeching of children. Travers, in his Constitutional Irrilation, ] 826, had marked plainly enough the existence of cases simulating acute inflammation, but really caused by want of blood. Marshall Hall, in describing the " morbid and curative" efl^ects of loss of blood, takes for his principal thesis the fact that in some morbid con- ditions—especially "irritation," shock, and ex- haustion—the abstraction of a very small quantity of blood will induce syncope ; that inflammation and fever have the efl:ect of a stimulus on the organs of circulation, which enables them to resist syncope, even when large quantities are taken, insomuch that the author believed that a-patient sinking from exhaustion and failure of the heart's action might be saved by setting up an inflammation. In health the average °los3 which a man can bear without syncope is 15 oz. ; bleeding, therefore, is a means of diagnosis as well as of cure, because if a larger bleeding than 15 oz, be borne, it shows the presence of some inflamma- tion Hall did service in 1830 by treating of the morbid effects, but his ideas of the curative effects ot bleeding are shocking for their extravagance. 1 arodying the proverb about the wind that is tem- pered to the shorn lamb, he believed that when bleeding was well borne it was necessary. This clever writer has the merit of marking oflf certain affections as utterly unfit for depletory treatment—such as " irritation," neuralgia, puer- peral dehrnim, delirium tremens, " hysteria dys- pepsia, chlorosis, and cholera morbus," and the conditions following severe injuries. He also de scribed a scale of tolerance representing the power of the system to resist syncope, and the quantity ot blood which may be drawn in various affections. At the top of the scale is placed congestion of the head and tendency to apoplexy, and it is said that in "arachnitis " forty ounces should flow • inflammation of the serous membranes and paren- chyma of organs follows, and it is said that 30 to 35 ounces should be taken in pleurisy or pneumonia • next cmnes acute anasarca, and tiion iiillammatioa of mucous membranes, and it is said that 15 oz. is the (juantity for bronchitis. This is the quantity which iilso causes faintness in health. Below this come fever and the asthenic conditions reckoned above, in which faintness ensues from smaller losses of blood.