and avoid the epig;istiic artery, may least injure the walls, and above all the peritoneum. In bowel protruded and wounded a patient and minute search may be required to find the lesion, as the mucous membrane may so fill tiie breach as to conceal it. If fluid or flatus escape by the wound, then of course we may be enabled more easily to discover it, but the plugging of the aperture by the mucous membrane is iu small wounds often very perfect. Cooper says a wounded intestine presents some parti'iular appearances, to which the generality of writers have paid no attention :•—"If a gut be punctured, the elasticity of the peritoneum, and the contraction of the muscular fibres, open the wound, and the villous, or mucous coat, forms ii sort of lieniial protrusion, and obliterates the aper- ture. If an incised wound be made, the edges are drawn asunder, and everted, so that the mucous coat is elevated in the form of a fleshy lip. If the section be transverse, the lip is broad and bulbous, and acquires tumefaction and redness from the contraction of the circular fibres behind it, which produces, relatively to the everted portion, the appearance of a cervix. If the incision be accord- ing to the length of tlie cylinder, tlie lip is narrow, and the contraction of the adjacent longitudinal fibres, resisting that of the circular fibres, gives the orifice an oval form. This eversion and con- traction are produced by that series of motions which constitutes the peristaltic action of the in- testines." {Truvers on Injuries of tlie Intestines, p, 85.) According to this gentleman, some of tliese appearances were described by Haller, in Elemetil. Physiol, lib. xxiv. sect. 2.; and Opera Minora, t. i. sect. J.5. Having witnessed the facility with which con siderable injuries of the intestinal tube were re- paired, Mr. Travers was desirous of ascertaining more fully the powers of nature in the process of spontaneous reparation, and of determining under Iiow great a degree of injury it would commence, as well as the mode of its accomplishment. For these purposes, he divided the small intestine of several dogs as far as the mysentery. All these animals died, in consequence of the intestinal matter being extravasated, if they had been lately fed; or, if they had been fasting, in consequence of inflammation, attended with a separation of the ends of the divided bowel, eversion of the nmcous coat, and obliteration of the cavity, partly by this eversion, and partly by a plug of coaguhited chyle. In one particular instance, in which Mr. Tra- vers made a division of the bowel half through its diameter, a sort of poucli was formed round the injured intestine. "A pouch, resembling simie- what the diverticulum iu these animals, was formed opposite to the external wound on the side of the parietes, by the lining peritoneum, on the other bide, by the mesentery of the injured intestine, that intestine itself, and an adjacent fold, wliicli had contracted with it a close adheSion. The poUch thus formed and insulated, included the opposed sections of the gut, and hud received its contents, &c. The lUhu at the orifices was nar- rowed by the half evelsion, but ottered no impe- diment to the passage of fluids." (P. JJO'.) Whe- ther, under these circuuistiinces, the functions of the alimentary canal could have been continued, Mr. Travel's prul'e£8ua iiiniself incinmble of decid- WOUNDS. 10;i7 ing. Among the inferences, which this gentleman has drawn from the experiments detailed in his publication, the tendency of the two portions of a divided bowel to recede from each other, instead of coalescing to repair the injury, merits notice, inasmuch as it tends to prove that the only means of spontaneous reparation consist in the formation of an adventitious canal, by the encircling bowels and their appendages. The everted mucous coat, which is the part opposed to the surrounding peri- toneum, is also indisposed to the adhesive inflam- mation. When, however, the wound of the intestme is smaller, the obstacles to reparation are not abso- lutely insurmountable. Here, retraction is pre- vented, and the processes of eversion and conLrac- lion modified by the limited extent of the injury. If, therefore, the adhesive inflammation unite the continuous surfaces, etVusion will be prevented, and the animal escape immediate destruction. But union can only take place through the medium of tlie surrounding parts. According to Mr. Travers, it is the retraction immediately following the wound that is a chief obstacle to the repaialion of the injury; for, if the division be performed in such a way as to prevent retraction, the canal will be restored in so short a time as but slightly to interrupt the digestive function. In confirmation of this statement, a ligature was tightly applied round the duodenum of a dog, which became ill, but entirely recovered, and was killed. " A ligature fastened around the intestine, divides the interior coats of tlie gut, in this effect resembling the operation of a ligature upon an artery. The peritoneal tunic alone main- tains its integrity. The inflammation which the ligature induces on either side of it, is terminated by the deposition of a coat of lymph, which is exterior to the ligature, and quickly becomes organised. When the ligature, thus enclosed, is liberated by the ulcerative process, it falls, of necessity, into the canal, and pusses ofi with its contents." (.Pp. 103, 104.) It appears, also, from Mr. Travers's experlraenfi and observations, that longitudinal wounds of the bowels are more easily repaired than such as are transverse. In a dog, a longitudinal wound, of the extent of an inch and a half, was repaired by the adhesive inflammation. Here the process of eversion is very limited ; the aperture bears a smaller proportion to tiie cylinder of the bowel; and the entire longitudinal fibres resist the actii n of the liiculur which are divided, and can only slightly lessen the area of the canal, (P. 100.) From Very small openings, when filled up as was above described, tliere is little fear of extrava- sation when the protruding bowel is returned, as the equable pressure of the abdominal contents the one upon the other, and the adhesions whicll quickly form between tlie wounded point and thd parts with which it comes into contact, eli'ectually opliose such effusion. In any case, blood-vessels^ if open, must be secured, all foreign bodies care- fully removed, and, if it be thought desirable, a fine iigitture put round the aperture, and its ends cut close before the part is restored, which it is With gi'eat gentleness. It need iiaidly be added that if the protruded portion be quite gangteiious this practice cainiot be fuUouod, but any cuiiditiou short of Insured loot vitality would bu no valid objection to the parts' reduction. The wound 111