902 VARICO CELE. Eurc, became enlarged to a prodigiouj size, b\it the testicle shrunk to almost nothing. {Pull's Works, vol. ii.) The spermatic veins (M. Velpeau observes) which are tortuous, undulating, very large, and to the number of two, three, four, or even more, are readily distinguishable down to the epididymis, and usually placed in front and at the sides of the other vessels. Long, soft, with defective valves, continually dragged by the weight of the testicle, enveloped in loose cellular tissue, exposed to compression in the inguinal canal in consequence of the double bend which they make, and being also equally pressed upon in the iliac fossa in front of the muscles, by the end of the ileum, or the coecum, on the right, and by the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left, it is not surprising that *the spermatic veins should frequently be the seat of varicose dilatation, and that a varicocele should become sometimes very large. The kind of knotty chain, which they then form, gradually enlarges as they approach the t.sticle, because their branches increase in number in proportion as they come nearer to the lower end of the cord. This fact proves, that in order to obliterate them by incision or ligature, as anciently practised {Paul. JEyin. Sprcngel, t. vii.), and in modern times successfully by Delpech, they shou'.d' be exposed as high as possible. (See Alf. Velpeau, Anat. cliir. p. I!i9. t. ii. 8vo. Paris, 1838.) [Varicocele is a very common affection ; accord- ing to Professor Humphry it is present in about one male adult in ten (Holmes's Syslem of Surgery, vol. iv. p. 612). It occurs during that period of life -when the functional activity of the genital organs is greatest, from fifteen to thirty. It is extremely rare before puberty, and when it commences after thirty, or thirty-five, is usually the result of an injury, or long-continued pressure upon the cord, and it then seldom attains a large size. The affec- tion generally shows a tendency to decrease as life advances. The formation of a varicocele is due to other causes than those which produce varices elsewhere ; as it is exceptional to find this disease co-existing with a varicose condition of the lower extremities, or even with haemorrhoids. These causes are partly structural and partly accidental. The accidental or exciting causes are such as promote a frequent aflSux of blood to the testicle, or offer an habitual obstacle to its return. These are : venereal excesses; masturbation; hard riding; injuries to the testicle ; tumors in the groin or abdomen; a hernia ; a badly-fitting truss; various chronic affections of the scrotum and cord; pro- longed muscular efforts, &c. The structural causes are: the dependent position of the testicles ; the great length of the spermatic veins; their feeble coats and imperfect valves; their large size and plexiform arrangement within the scrotum ; the vertical ascent of the column of blood within them, and its continuous pressure upon their lower branches; and the abrupt angles formed by the vessels as they enter and leave the inguinal canal would tend also to impede the current of blood. To overcome these difficulties special auxiliarie.'^ aie developed to aid in the venous return ; of which the cremaster muscle and the dartos tissue are the chief. These structures, by the support and compression they afford to the veins whilst in the scrotum, arc of matfU-i il service in preventing congestion, and in promoting the onward flow of the blood. This is well shown by the fact that those persons who are the subjects of varicocele are generally of a lax, flabby habit of body, and as the dartos and cremaster share in the general re- laxation of the tissues, the testicles lose their necessary support, and distension of the veins results. For the same reason residents in warm damp climates are peculiarly liable to this disease. Although these causes would operate in the formation of a varicocele equally on both sides of the body, yet in the vast majoritj' of cases the disease occurs on the left side only, and a number of reasons have been assigned to account for this circumstance. Examples of double varicocele are, however, occasionally met with. But in these the right veins are almost always much smaller than the left. {Landouzy, de Varicocele, 1838.) Mr. Erichsen, though, alludes to one or two in- stances where the right veins formed the larger tumor. {Science and Art of Surgery, 3rd edit. p. 1118.)] Morgagni remarked that the disease is more frequently in the left than the right spermatic cord; a circumstance which he refers to the left sperm- atic vein terminating in the renal. {De SediLus el Caus. Morh. Epist. 43, art 34.) [Sir Astley Cooper adopted this view, and con- sidered that the junction, at a right angle, of the left spermatic vein with the renal, and the horizonUil direction of the larger current of blood along tiiis latter, would offer such an obstacle to the free discharge of blood from the spermatic as to cause permanent congestion of that vein, and therefore a tendency to varicocele. Vidal de Cassis also in- sisted so strongly upon this being the correct ex- planation, as to assert that when the affection occurs upon the right side, it was owing to a transposition of the internal viscera.] Mr. Mayo joins J. L. Petit, Calli.en, and Richerahd, in stating that it is more frequent on the left side than the right, " owing to the position of the sigmoid flexure of the colon over the left spermatic veins. For the same reason (he adds) it is often benefited by purging." {Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 562.) M. Blandm also specifies, as one cause of varicocele, the pressure of the large intestine on the spermatic veins. (Seel Diet, de Med. et da Chir. prat. vol. xv. p. 562.) It is sometimes alleged, that even in persons who are not habitually costive, the left spermatic veins are naturally more tortuous and capacious than the right. Cruveilhier also takes into account the generally larger size and lower situation of the left testicle, as possibly concerned. {Blandm, vol. cit. p. 564.) [ It is probable thatall these causes may conduce to the formation of a varicocele on the left side rather than on the right; but the much greater length o the left spermatic vein is alone sufficient to account for the almost constant occurrence of the atteetion on this side. For not only is the left vein longer in consequence of the more dependent position oi the testicle, as alluded to by Cruveilhier but its point of junction with the renal is at a much higher level than that of the right spermatic vein wi i the vena cava; and this circumstance must consti- tute one of the chief determining causes loi " varicose condition of the left vein.] Varicocele is, more i^oqneiuU th:^^^, ^ oUkv disorder, mistaken for an omental hermit. v\