who had been under his own care, two of whom were afflicted with violent pains, and the third scarcely retained anj' food in her stomach for the space of three months. I have seen not only pains, but even general convulsions, produced from the same cause. But this singular kind of metastasis of the mercurial irritation does not appear to me to owe its appearance to simple exposuie to cold and dry air ; because I have known it occur in difTerent forms, where patients continued to breathe a Wiirm atmosphere, but used a bath the water of which was not sufficiently heated. Cold liquids taken in a large quantity into the stomach, or expo- sure of the body to cold and moisture, will also prove injurious to those who are fully under the influence of mercury ; whereas breathing a cool air, while the body is properly covered with ap- parel, has certainly no tendency to produce any distressing or dangerous consequences. (^Pearson on the Effect of Various Articles in the Cure of Lues Venerea, edit. 2. pp. 163, 164.) Mercury, when it affects the mouth, produces, in many constitutions, violent inflammation, which sometimes terminates in mortification. In these habits great caution is necessary. The ordinary operation of mercury does not permanently injure the constitution. From mercury occasionally acting on the sj's- tem as a poison, quite unconnected with its agency as a remedy, and neither proportionate to the in- flammation of the mouth, or the actual quantity of the mineral absorbed, Mr. Pearson noticed that one or two patients in general died suddenly every year in the Lock Hospital. The morbid state of the system, which tends to the fatal event, during a mercurial course, is named by Mr. Pearson ereihismus, and is characterised b}' great depres- sion of strength, a sense of anxiety about the prte- cordia, irregular action of the heart, frequent sigh- ing, trembling, a small, quick, and sometimes an intermitting pulse, occasional vomiting, a pale contracted countenance, a sense of coldness ; but the tongue is seldom furred, and neither the vital nor natural functions are much disordered ; a statement, however, according to my notions, not very consistent with the alleged irregular action of the heart. They who die suddenly of the mer- curial erethismus have frequently been making some little exertion just before. To prevent the dangerous consequences of this state of the svstetn, the use of mercury must be discontinued, whatever may be the stage, extent, or violence of the vene- real symptoms. The patient should be directed to expose himself freelj' to dry and cool air, in such a manner as shall be attended with tlie least fatigue, and he should have a generous diet. In this manner patients often recover sutKciently in ten or fourteen days to resume tlie use of mercury with safety. In the early stage tlie mercurial erethism may often be averted by leaving off the men-ury, and giving the mistura camphorat;i with large doses of ammonia. When the stomach is un!ifl!ected, sars-.iparilla sometimes does good. {Pearson, p, 151, &c.) Occasionnlly the use or rather misuse of mercury brings on a peculiar eruption, which has received tlie several names of hi/drargyria, mercurial rash, eczema mei curiale, eczema rul/rum, lepra mercurialis, mercurial i/isease, and erythema mcrcuriale, " Eruptions of various kinds are very common symptoms of syphilis, ljut a very unusual cfTect of URY. 291 mercury. Therefore, until the real nature of this erythema was lately discovered, whenever it oc- curred in patients undergoing a mercurial course for syphilitic complaints, it was naturally enough considered as an anomalous form of lues venerea. The mercury was consequently pushed to a greater extent in proportion to the violence of the symp- toms, and from the cause of the disease being thus unconsciously applied for its removal, it could not fail to be aggravated, and hurried on to a fatal ter- mination. The observation of this fact, conjoined with another of less frequent occurrence—namely, that a similar eruption did sometimes appear in patients using mercury for other complaints, and in whom no suspicion of syphilis could be enter- tained—!tt last led some judicious practitioners in Dublin to the important discovery, that the eruption was entirely an effect of mercury, and not at all connected with the origiuiil disease. This discovery was not published till 1804." {M'MuUin in Edinb. Med. and Stirgical Journal, No. 6.) Mr. Pearson states, however, that he had been acquainted with the disease ever since 1781, and had always described its history and treatment in his lectures since 1783. The eniption is attended with more or less indisposition, is not confined to either sex or any particular constitution, and seems to be equally produced by mercury applied externally, and by any of its preparations taken inwardly. Mr. Pear- son has never seen it in subjects above 50 ; and he says its occurrence is more common about eight or ten days after the beginning of a mercu- rial course. (P. 166.) Dr. M'MuUin has described three distinct stages of the erythema mercuriale. " The first stage commences with languor, lassitude, and cold shiverings ; these symptoms are succeeded by in- creased temperature of the bod}', quick pulse, nausea, headache, and thirst. The patient is troubled with a dry cough, and complains of difR- '•ult respiration, anxiety, and sense of stricture about the prajcordia. The tongue is usually moist, and covered with a white glutinous slime ; it some- times appears clean, and brightly red in the centre, whilst the margins remain foul. The skin feels unusually hot and itchy, with a sense of prickling, not unlike the sensation experienced from the application of nettles. The bowels are generally confined, but a diarrha2a is often produced by very slight causes. " On the first or second day, an eruption most commonly shows itself, the colour of which is either daik or bright red ; the pnpulaj are at first distinct and elevated, resembling very much those in rubeola. Sometimes, but rarely, the eruption appears like urticaria, and in such instances the disease is ob- served to be very mild. The papulas very speedily run together in such u manner as to form a suf- fused redness, which disappears on pressure. In most cases it begins first on the scrotum, inside of the thighs, forearm, or where mercurial friction has been applied, and the integuments of the parts affected become much swollen. There have also been observed instances where an eruption of a purplish colour, and unaccompanied by papulte has difTiised itself suddenly over the entire body. This, however, may be considered as uncommon. In every instance which came under my obser- vation, it was confined at first to a few places, and from thence gradually extended, until the different u 2