710 TETANUS. Edinburgh. It occurred in a negro, who scratched his thumb with a broken china plate, and died of tetanus a quarter of an hour after tliis slight injury. (See Rees's Cydojicedia, art. Tetanus.) But, com- monly, the approaches of the disorder are more gradual, and it slowly advances to its worst stage. In this sort of case, the commencement of tiie disorder is announced by a sensation of stiffness about the neck; a symptom which, increasing by degrees, renders the motion of the head difficult and painfnl. [Tlie patient's first complaint will often be " tliat he has taken a cold, or is suffering from a sore throat, or stiff neck."] In proportion as the rigidity of the neck becomes greater, the patient experiences in the throat a sort of drj'.ness and soreness, and about the root of the tongue an uneasiness, soon'ch.'inging into a difficulty of mas- tication and swallowing, which after a time become totally impossible. The attempt at deglutition is attended with convulsive efforts, especially w'len an endeavour is made to swallow liquids ; and so great is the distress which accompanies these con- vulsions, that the patient becomes very reluctant to renew the trials, and occasionally refuses all nourishment. Sometimes it even inspires him with a dread of the siglit of water, and a great resem- blance to hydropliobia is produced. One of the next remarkable sj'mptoms is a severe pain at the bottom of the sternum [pit of the stomach], darting from this point backward to the spine, in the direction of the diaphragm. As soon as tliis pain commences, the spasms of all the muscles about the neck become exceBdingl3' violent, and the head is drawn backwards, or forwards, ac- cording as the contraction of the extensor or flexor muscles happens to be strongest; but in the ma- jority of cases the head and trunk are pulled back- wards, and the contractions increasing in force, the body is frequently raised in the form of a bow, resting upon the head and feet alone; a state which is more particularly denominated opisihoionos. At the same time the nmscles which close the lower jaw, and which were affected with spasm and rigidity in the very beginning of the disorder, now contract with great power, so as to maintain the lower jaw-bone inseparably applied to the upper'. The last stiite, which has been considered as a particular affection under the name of trismus, or locked jaw, Boyer conceives, may be regarded as the patiiognouionic symptom of tetanus, which in many instances is limited to such an affection of the jaw. {Mai. Chir. t. i. p. 288.) Although the contraction of the muscles rarely ceases so completely as to form an intermission there are occasional remissions; and, in two cases under Dr. Parrj', there were marked intervals. {Di: Syinoiids, in Cyclop, of Practical Med., art. Tetanus. [Four cases are related in the Gtcy's Hospital Re- ports, series iii. vol. iii. p. 7!i. In two there was relief of the symptoms for thirteen days, but ex- haustion ensued, and death resulted. In a tliird, the sj-mptoms were relieved for many days, and in the fourth, the remission was for two days only, but l)oth these cases were fatal] Tile continuance of the disease leads to increas- ing spasm of tlie diaphragm, which now returns every ten or fifteen minutes, and is instantly sue- ceodyd by a stronger retraction of the head and rigidity of the muscles of the back, and even of thiise of the lower extremities. A violent stabbing pain is felt in the situation of the diaphragm; and, if the disorder increases, comes on at shorter and shorter intervals. The abdominal muscles are also strongly contracted, so that the belly feels as hard and tense as a board. By the violence of the contractions, indeed, the recti muscles have been known to be lacerated, as I shall relate an example of hereafter. Sometimes the spasm and tension extend only to the muscles un one parti- cular side of the body ; the tetanus lateralis of Sauvages, and the pleurosthoionos of other uoso- logists. When the disease reaches its most violent stage, the flexor muscles of the head and trunk contract so powerfully that they counterbalance the force of the extensors, and hold those parts in a straight, fixed, inmioveable position. This is tiie condition to whicli the appellation of tetanus more particu- larly belongs. The muscles of the lower ex- . tremities become rigid; and even the arms, which till now were little affected, also partake of the general spasm and stiffness, with the exception of the fingers, which often retain their moveableness to the last. The tongue likewise continues a long while endued with the power of voluntary motion; but, at length, the violent spasms do not leave it unaffected, and it is then liable to be forcibly pro- pelled between the teeth, where it is occasionally dreadfully lacerated. [This is, however, rare.] Sometimes the teeth are broken by the violence of the spasm. The sphincters are variously affected; thus the urine is sometimes discharged with great and sudden impetus during the violent spasm of the abdominal muscles; at other times it is re- tained. The anus is in general obstinately closed, though cases have occurred in which the con- tents of the rectum have escaped involuntarily. (Symo}ids.) In the extreme period of the disorder all the muscles destined for voluntary motion are affected; among others those of the face : the forehead is drawn up into furrows; the eyes, sometimes dis- torted, are generally fixed and motionless in their sockets; the nose is drawn up; and the cheeks are retracted towards the ears; so that tlie features undergo a most extraordinary change; [the tetanic grin, or risus sardonicus.] When tetanus arrives at this stage, and the spasms are universal, a violent convulsion usually puts an end to the patient's miserj'. Wherever the muscular contractions are situated in cases of tetanus, they are always accomp.-inied with the most excruciating pain. They sometimes last, without any manifest remission, to the end of the disorder; but, in almost all cases, their violence, and the sufferings excited by them, undergo perio- dical diminutions every minute or two. The relaxation, however, is never such as to let the muscles which experience it yield to the action of their antagonists; and it is in nearly all cases fol- lowed in ten or twelve minutes by a renewal of the previous contractiims and suffering. The re- currence of these aggravated spasms [increased reflex excitability], frequently happens without any evident cause; btil it is often detcrmmed by efforts which the patient makes to change his pos- ture, swallow, speak, &c. . AVhen the spasms are general and violent, the pulse is contracted, hnrried, and irregular; and the respiration is similarly affected; but during the remission, the pulse and respiration may return to