VENEREAL DISEASE. venereal are cured by much smaller doses of that niediciiie than were given in Mr. Hunter's lime, or by means of the iodide of potassium and sarsa- prtiiila, nodes have become much less frequent ; and 1 have already, in a previous part of this ar- ticle, expressed my decided belief in the justness of the opinion given by Fallopius, and others, that a disposition to. nodes is often occasioned in vene- real patients by the abuse of mercury.. Tt-eatmetit of Seeimilaiy SpiifHojtis.—In Mr. Hunter's opinion, the first order of parts {secondary si/p/nlis), or those most susceptible of being affected in lues venerea, is also the most easy of cure ; while the second order of parts takes more time to be remedied. In the class of complaints arising ia the second stage of the Uvea venerea (tentiary syphilis), Mr. Hunter believed that it was unnecessary to con- tinue the employment of mercury till all the swelling had disappeared ; because such com- plaints cannot contaminate the system by ab- sorption. Whatever may be decided concerning the superiority of mercury as a general remedy for many secondary symptoms, one thing ap- pears already wall made out, viz. that it should always be employed with moderation, lest it produce worse effects and more terrible diseases than those which it is designed to relieve; and here, indeed, the same ordinary Eules and principles apply with reference to a mercurial course, or the mere alterative exhibition of mercury, which are appli- cable in other forms of syphilis. (See Mjercurx.) To the following ingenious reasoning on the operation o^mercury, and the principles by which its administration should be regulated, surgeons of the present day will not give more credit than facts warrant, because some of Mr. Hunter's opinions are manifestly influenced by the supposition that mercury is absoltUely necessary for the cure of the venereal disease.. In curing lues venerea-, by which- Wt. H-unter signified particularly the constitutional forms of it, mercury seemed to him to be capable of only two modes of action—one, on the poison;, the other, on the constitution. If, says Mr. Hunter, mercury acted on the poison only, one might conceive it did so eith-er by destroying its qualities, by de- composing it, or else by attracting it and carrying it out of the circulation.. If mercury acted in the first of these ways,, one would expect that the cure would depend on the quantity of the medicine taken into the system. If it .icted in the second manner, one would infer that the progress of the cure would be proportionate- to the quantity of eva- cuation. But, observes Mr. Hunter, if it act upon the principle of destroying the diseased action of the living parts, and of counteracting the venereal irritation, by producing one of a diflfcrent kind, then neither quantity alone, nor evacuations, will avail much. He states that the quickness of the cure depends on quantity, joined with visible effects. However, it is added, that althoughi the effects which mercury has upon the venereal dis- ease are in some degree proportioned to the local effects of the medicine on some of the glands, or particular parts of the body, as the mouth, skin, kidneys, and intestines, yet such effects are not altogether proportioned to these other circum- stances. When mercury disagrees with the con- stitution, so as to produce great irritability and hectic symptoms, this action of irritation, as Mr. Hunter explains, is not a counter-irritation to the venereal disease. It was also another Hunterian theory, that the effects of mercury on lues venerea are always in proportion to the quantity of the remedy exhibited in a given time, and the susceptibility of the con- ; stitution to the mercurial irritation. These circum- stances seemed to Mr. Hunter to require the most minute attention. However, it appeared to him that mercury should not be exhibited too quickly; because, when the local effects are produced too quickly, they prevent a sufficient quantity of the remedy from being taken into the system to coun- ; teract the disease. Mr. Hunter had seen cases in which mercury :acted very readily locally, and yet the constitulion was hardly affected by it, for the disease vvouM not give waj^ He states that he has met with other cases ia which the mere quantity of mercury did not answer, till it was given, so quickly as to affect the constitution in, such a manner as to produce local irritation, and, consequently, sensible evacuations. This, he observes, is a proof that the local effects of mercury are often the sign of its specific effects on, the constitution at large, and it shows that the susceptibility of the diseased parts to be affected by the medicine is in propor tion to its effects on the mouth. Its effects, he contends, are-not to be imputed to evacuation, but to its irritation. lience he inculcates that mer- cury should be given, if possible, in such a man- ner as-to pioduce sensible effects upon some parts of the body, and in the largest quantity that can be given to. produce these effects within certain bounds. Mr. Hunter also remarks that these sensible effects, should be the means of determin- ing how far the medicine may be pushed, so as to have the greatest effect on the disease without endangering the constitution. The practice roust vary according to circumstances ; and if the dis- ease be in a violent degree, less regard must be had to the constitution, and mercury must be thrown into the system in larger quantities—a very dangerous precept, so,far as I can, judge from the results of many cases in whii;h I have seen it acted upon. When the disease is in the first order of parts {secondary syphUis); a smaller quantity of mer- cury appeared to Mr. Hunter necessary than when the second order of parts is affected {tertiary syphilis}. For ii\e purpose of curino- the venereal disease, whether in the form uf chancre, bubo, or lues venerea, Mr. Hunter was of opinion that probably the same quantity of mercury is necessary. He represents that one sore requires as much mercury as fifty sores in the same person, and a small sore as much as a large one. He thought that the only difference, if there is any, must depend upon the nature of the parts affected, that is, on their being naturally active or indolent. He conceived, however, that on the whole, recent venereal complaints are ge- nerally more difficult to cure than the symptoms of lues venerea, and that this may make a differ- ence in regard to the quantity of mercury re- quired. Having now delivered those theories on the ex- hibition of mercury, as laid down by Mr. Hunter, I must not quit this subject without remarking that even this eminent surgeon appears, on the whole, too partial to the long use of mercury, luul some-