uterus, stomach, oesoplmftus, tongue, pharynx, dia- phragm, and other structures. It is rarelj' followed by cardiac and cerebral mischief, but cases are recorded of distinct endocarditis and pericarditis, in which the rheumatic symptoms have been manifested in a very slight degree externally. In general it may be said that the nature and effects . of chronic rheumatism are those of the acute disease in a very mild form. The best division of rheumatism is that based on the kind of structure attacked; thus we may describe it as affecting, 1. the fibrous, 2. the muscular, and 3. the nervous tissues; and in each case either in the acute or chronic form. Of the first of these kinds, the common acute rlieumaiism, or rheumatic /ever, is the type. Its characteristics, and the points by which it may be recognized when it attacks parts already injured, are given above. The chronic form of this kind of rheumatism affects the patient with aches in ligamentous and tendinous structures, which are aggravated at night and in changeable weath.-r; and, if long continued, result in permanent contractions of ligaments and fascise, and effusions into joints and synovial sheaths. The muscular, in its acute form, usually affects some one muscle or set of muscles, whether sound or injured, with intense pain and paroxysms of cramp. Well-marked varieties of it are wry-neck, and inflammatory spasm of the sphincter ani. The tei-m " pleurod)-nia" is applied to inflam- matory spasm of the intercostal muscles, which also comes under this head. If muscular rheu- matism becomes chronic it may end in permanent shortening of the muscle affected, or in atrophy. The nervous variety is exemplified by sciatica; but no nerve is exempt from it. It is distinguished by very great tenderness and pain in the course of the nerve, with numbness, or more probably in- tense hyperaesthesia of the part supplied by it. The acute form, if very severe or long-continued, may produce wasting of the nerve and effusion into its sheath, with atrophy of the muscles. But more often it becomes chronic, troubling the patient for years, more especially when he is in bad health, or during bad weather. It differs from functional neuralgia in not being intermittent nor curable by quinine, and by the tenderness in the course of the nerve. Other tissues, however, may be attacked, as, for example, the periosteum, which is the seat of one variety of the so-called "neuralgia of the head and face," an affection excited by decayed teeth, cold, and repletion. Rheumatic periostitis ought to be distinguished from true neuralgia, though the two may co-exist. In broken-down constitutions it is sometimes hy no means easy to distinguish between the effects of rheumatism and those of syphilis. The disease most liable to be confounded with rheumatism is gout. But it is only in obscure cases, and especially in those of internal rheu- matism or gout, that any real difficulty exists, ihe differences are thus summed up by Dr. Gar- rod :—Gout is the more distinctly hereditary; it occurs by preference in adult males and high livers; It usually attacks a single small joint, as that of the great toe, with intense pain, redema, and peeling of the skin, and with moderate febrile cisturhance. It does not produce endocarditis uor pericarditis, but commonly deposits urate of INFLAMMATION. 47 soda in cartilages and ligaments, and externally as chalk-stones. Its paroxysms are periodic and short, not lasting at first more than eight or ten days, and are coincident with the presence of uric acid in large quantity in the blood. In every one of these particulars it is distinctly contrasted with rheumatism. Dr. Ball, whose work is above quoted, says further that in gout atheroma of the arteries is common, with apoplexy as a conse- quence (p. 15G); and contrasts the bronchial catarrh which often accompanies gout with the acute lung diseases produced by rheumatism. "Gout is to the stomach," he says, "what rheumatism is to the heart" (p. 158). The heart affection that accompanies gout, in the few cases in which any exists, is fatty degeneration of the muscidar substance. The effects of rheumatism on the stomach have yet to be demonstrated. The endocarditis and pericarditis which are the charac- teristic sequel of rheumatism, and the habitual dj'spepsia and stomach-pains of gout, mark in most cases tlie distinction between the two diseases, irrespectively of external manifestations. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis, improperly called Rheumatic Gout, differs in its nature from both the preceding in the following points: It is a progressive disease of the articular ends of the bones, not complicated with heart or kid- ney disease, nor accompanied by uric acid in the blood, nor by any considerable fever. Its attacks are of indefinite duration; they affect both large and small joints, in persons of all ages, with or without hereditary predisposition; and are usually excited by cold and depressing causes. The development of the disease is attended with some pain, and with much swelling; sometimes with oedema. Its results are destruction of the articular cartilages, and nodular growths in and around the ends of the bones, the surfaces of which, become infiltrated with hard, ivory-like matter, and are sometimes quite smooth and polished by subsequent use. The joints attacked usually become stiff and permanently useless; but never exhibit the chalk-stones of gout. There is, however, a form of inflammation which may with more propriety be called rheumatic gout. This often occurs in children, affecting the small joints of the hands and feet with the phenomena of true gout. The results of it are seen in a weakened state of the ligaments; which renders the arches of the foot incapable of bearing up the weight of the body, and so produces flat-foot (the " pes longus " of Horace) and bending inwards of the ankle. Gonorrhmil Rheumatism is an example of a gene- ral inflammation with local effects of a very definite sort, evidently caused by the presence of suppura- tion 111 the urethra. It may be considered a petty form of pya;mia. It usually affects voung men with light hair and blue eyes. A patient of this type who hasgonorrhnji, towards the termination of Uie discharge, complains of inflammatory symptoms in the eyes, which become irritable and intolerant of light, with aching and liiiriiing sensations. There is no conjunctival inflammation, but the bright pink hue of sclerotitis is easily recognised. Simul- taneously, pains and superlicial inllammation aftect the smiiller joints of the feet, and the ankles and knees. The pain is more troublesome at night than in the day, and breaks up the patient's n-st There is no special perspiration nor elevation of