VISION, No. ]. can be read at 1 ft., No. C at 6 ft., No, 10, 1009 at 10 ft, &c. If one eye alone is highly hypermetropic, the other but slightly, the former through not being used becomes amblyopic Kiipid improvement ol vision is obtained when practising the amblyopic eye alone frequently with convex lenses. Trealmciit.—Most of the inconveniences arising from hyperraetropia can be removed by the use oC spectacles with convex lenses. Persons who ob- ject to spectacles have to put up with the incon- venience arising from the hypermetropia. Hypermetropic persons often attribute the asthenopia to commencing araaurnsis, and their minds are much relieved by an explanation of the nature and cause of these symptoms. Few hypermetropics object to wearing spec- tacles, since in most cases they have only to be worn for "near-work." It is well, by paralysing the accommodation with atropia to ascertain tlie absolute decree of hypermetropia. In persons engaged in business, or of nervous temperament, this may be dispensed with, provided we explain to the patient the nature of the case, and the ne- cessity of having the spectacles altered, as soon as the symptoms of asthenopia reappear. Tlie object of wearing spectacles with convex lenses is, to remedy the faulty refraction arising from the malposition of the retina, to prevent the power of accommodation from being used unneces- earily, and to remove the asthenopia, and often the convergent strabisms. A hypermetrop who, to see without effort of accommodation at distance, requires spectacles with convex lenses of ten-inch focus (=xV)5 who has therefore a manifest hypermetropia of Jg-, and whose nearest point of dis'tinct vision without the convex lens lies at 20" from the eyes, has a range or power of accommodation of (JL + a little more than i. To overcome the hypeV metropic shape of the eye he is compelled to in- crease the convexity of his crystalline lens to an extent which is equal to the addition to it of a convex lens of ten-inch focus. In this case a large quantity of the power of accommodation is used to overcome the hypermetropia The region of accommodation in the above cnse extends from twenty inches to o= (= infinite dis- tance) i.e., objects placed at twenty inci,e«, and at liny distance beyond twenty inches, can be seen distinctly. To make useful the power of accom- modation (of -Jj;) which is employed to overcome the hypermetropia, we give spectacles with convex lenses of ten-inch focus. With these <Jistant objects are seen distinctly without an eflbrt of ac- commodation. The absolute power of accommodation has not become increased by the use of these spectacle'^ but the power which was wasted is made useful • and objects which are placed at about 0" frum tlu' eyes can now be seen distinctly. Thus the region of accommodation, instead of extending only IV,„„ twenty inches to a great distance (from twenty inches to CO), extends, with the aid of spectacles from 6' from the eyes, to os. ' No spectacles need be worn as long as vision foi distance is good, and no asthenopia complained of To hnd the proper spectacles, we first ascertain the amount of manifest hypermetropia, by plaei„„ ,1.,. pntient at twenty feet from the letters of No 20 If he aiiinot spell these at that distance, we diren vol.. II. ""<-l.l him to walk slowly towards the letters-and to stop when he can spell them. We commence the trial with lenses at that dis- tance. If both eyes are equal, we try both eves simultaneously. If he can only spell the letters with one eye, vision of the other being defective we keep the defective eye closed during the exami- nation of the other. We then try whether, when looking through a convex lens (commencing with No. 60 convex) the patient cm spell the letters; if so, we continue trying convex lenses until we have found the strongest with which this can still be done. Sup- pose the patient spells the letters of No. 20 at twenty feet, and can do the same with No. 40 30 or 20 convex, but no more with No. 18 convex' J^rom this we infer that No. 20 is the stron-res^ convex lens which brings the rays coming fVom the letters of No. 20 to a focus on the retina, and we advise spectacles with lenses of twenty-inch focus to be used for both eves for readino- and other near-work. These spectacles remove the manifest hypermetropia, and often allow the pa- tient to continue work for several years without latigue. We must insist upon the spectacles being altered as soon as the eyes become fatigued at work. E p- suppose in the above case spectacles with No 20 convex to have been worn for two years, after which time asthenopia appears again. We again determine the strongest convex lens with which the patient can now spell letters of No "^0 at the distance at which he can spell them without lenses Suppose we find No. 16 to be that convex lens, we order the patient to have the twenty-inch convex lenses removed, and sixteeu-inch convex lenses inserted into the same spectacle frame, Ihese spectacles are to be used for reading, fgain symptoms of fatigue appeS All hypermetropia becomes manifest as ao-e ad- vances and the power of accommodation be'come. ess. Therefore at the age of 40, 45, or 50 as ar as the hypermetropia is concerned, the spec- tacles need no more be changed. At that a«B presbyopia must be taken into account. Presbyopia.) ^ In one patient, who commenced with No 20 con vex, we may find that, all hypermetropia havimr become man.lest, he recognises the letters of No 20 at twenty feet, with No. 10 convex. Now in this case. If It had been desirable at the time when spectacles with No. 20 convex lenses were order cj L Z ? ^T'' ''vpermetrop^ (i.e. not only the m.^nifest, but also the latent hypermetropia), we should have found that aft paralysing the accommodation with atropia, the ab- solute hypermetropia did amount to The patient wlien beginning to wJar spectacles or work, should at first only use them for half a, hour a a time frequently during the day. U abou three weeks later he may use then, con tin,! ally during the day, and some weeks later also at night. If the spectacles do not suit, and on enquiring we find that the patient, when reading, gradualiv brings the book nearer and nearer, beca.'.s^e Scmf not see the letters distinctly at the distance -.t which the book was held at first, we aseerta,,. J . 1. Whether the ra.me of accommodation (consid.M- nig the age of the patient) is normal. If s„,