NECROSIS. Breschet, Villei'me, Diipuytren, and Cruveilhier, 111 relation to the formation of callus {see Fnic/ure), are decidedly against the periosteum being the sole organ of ossification. Boyer does not refer all the work of rcproduc- insr bones exclusively to the periosteum in every 337 instance; but joins Weidmann in believing, that \yhat seems a new bone is sometimes only a separa- tion and thickening of the external layers of the original bone, which have escaped destruction. He notices the modifications, to which the phe- nomena of necrosis are subject when the disorder affects the whole thickness, and the whole, or the greater part of the circumference of a lon^ cylin- drical bone. When the periosteum is destroyed together with the bone, while the medullary mem- brane, which does the ofiice of an internal peri- osteum, is preserved, Boyer represents the latter membrane as undergoing similar changes to those which we have mentioned as taking place, under other circumstances, in the external periosteum, a^d he describes it as becoming the organ by which the new bone is formed. (See Traite des Mai CJdr. t. lii. p. 432.) The foregoing account is cor- roborated by Mr. Stanley. " If, in a living animal, <3ays he) a portion of one side of the walls of a bone be removed, without much injury to the me- dullary texture, the lost bone will be reproduced by the vessels of the medullary membrane" lim he ascertained by an experiment made on the tibia of a dog. He had seen also an illus- tration of a similar circumstance in the ulna of the human subject. {See Lond. Med. Gai:. vo] xx p m.) Mr. Mayo also states, that, if the integu- ments, and one aspect of the cortex of a cylindrical bone perish in consequence of an injury, the can- cellous structure granulates, and reproduces what Has been lost. {Hummi Putliohgy, p. 35 ) But when the whole thickness and circumference of : long bone are destroyed, together with the medul Jary membrane, while the periosteum survives Boyer agrees with Troja, &c., in believing the latter membrane to be the means by which the new bone 13 generated. [Diipuytren, {Clin. Chir. vol. iv.), agrees verv much with Duhamel as to the reproductive func- tion of the periosteum, but his experiments lead him to assign some portion of this process to the medullary menibrane and adjacent tissues. (See also Syd. Soc. lUl. Dupuytren on Injuries and Z»™ o/ translated by Le Gros Clark.) Brodie fully confirms the opinion of Dupuytren rt°n /t'S^'^- ^833-34, p. 54.) Bransby trooper also lends his sanction to the formative pro- perties of the same structures. {GuyS Hospital lie- ports, part 4.)] ■' But, according to Mr. Stanley's investigations, When the necrosis is attended with destruction of the walls of the bone and the medullary texture the bone may be regenerated from three sources 1. Ihe articular ends of the original bone, which are very rarely implicated. 2. The periosteum whic_h invested the dead bone. 3. The soft part indifferently, whatever their nature may be, which surroiind the periosteum, supposing tMs to Im -e been destroyed Of these agents in the repro .c' tion of bone Mr. Stanley joins several of the fore- going pathologists in regarding the periosteum as nW\ rfh"'-''"'- /^'"-.'fe''V'- f^r from mai ! oTfi r,^ , '5 the only tissue capable vou if. ' 8'"'' <'*'""1''«5 to tiie coiit.ar,, yet he considers that the influence which he periosteum exercises in the regeneration of bone ,s so great, in consequence of its being " - hapsmore prone to form osseous matter thmi .?nv other fibrous tissue, that, in all cases in Xh bone has been lost, whether by necrosis, or ex- ternal v-iolence, the chance of its reproduction, and the perfection of the process, are materially infli,. enced by tha condition of this membrane. " With reference to this point, the same observer performed the tollowing experiment. A portion of the radius in Its whole thickness, and with its periosteum' had been removed from the fore leg of one do-. • and from the fore leg of another, a similar piece°of the radius, but with the periosteum carefully spared ; this membrane was merely slit, separated trorn the bone, and turned aside, so that the re- quired portion of bone could be removed. The result proved the influence of the periosteum in the reproduction of bone ; for, on killing both dogs, ten weeks after the operation, it was found, that, in the dog, whose periosteum had been left, the reproduc- tion was so perfect, that scarcely any vestige of the injury remained. But, in the other dog, whose periosteum had been removed, the regeneration ^vas incomplete, and a false joint had formed be- tween the divided ends of the bone. (Lond. Med <^az. vol. XX. p. 578.) [Mr. Syme had originally performed an analo- gous experiment with the same result, and his in- vestigations all tend to show that the periosteum U the principal reparative agent for bone. {On the poivers of the Periosteum to form new Bone, 1848 Siirgl!y){^^°''' ^° Praclice of ohes H,stortqy et Expirimentales sur la forma- i'on du Cal., 818.) Sanson (De la Cari/el Nc- erose compartes cntre elks, 1813.) Cruveilhier and others left no doubt about the pow :f the vessels of other textures, besides those of work of T.'"'^ '° '^"^^ ^ «hare in the work of ossification ; and, as Mr. Stanley correctly observes, important as the periosteum^is, Tl made, that u is essential to the reproduction of till nn?'/T''V\' P^^o^te^ra from a dog's tibia and destroyed .the medullary texture- vet Zetof '^"'^ ev^denti; b; ^h ve se,s of the surrounding cellular tissue, which had become exceedingly condensed, and adhered to he surface of the new bone, formi'ng, in f„ct, its peuosteum. The same thing undoubtedly often happens in the human subject. In cases of deep-seated necrosis, where there are large abscesses, and much destruction of the soft purts around the bone, there must of.en be more oi- less complete destruction of the periosteum, which ad invested the old bone, and ?et the f„;ma; J Besides the periosteum and surroundin- soft parts, the articular ends of a bone, whose°slia has perisiied, contribute also to its reprodiicti , for luxunant granulations will arise from their sur-' aces, and, becoming ossified, will at length unite em to the new bone, wlrcli has been prod c d e.ther by the periosteum, or by other structures Many investigations have been made of late ve-ir« to determine the sources whence the materid winch regenerates bone, is derived, and the ch.rZs <2