2 IMPOTENCE seem, it is singular to notice how indifferent such „V- , Q persons appear to their loss, or rather deficiency. They do not know the value of what they have never possessed and never will possess, and pass through life contented men, evincing no aver- sion to, or liking for, the opposite sex. The undeveloped state of the reproductive system, ■whether permanent or temporary, usually indicates itself by, among other signs, a marked indifference to manly sports and exercises, and a visible defi- ciency in virile attributes generally. Other causes, however, besides an undeveloped state of the sexual organs, produce indifference to the opposite sex, and deficiency in manly vigour. The most common of such causes is the wretched habit of masturbation. A youth who mastur- bates himself, and continues the practice as he grows up to manhood, generally evinces, even after he has arrived at the marriageable age, no disposition towards the other sex, only his own solitary pleasure can give him any gratification; and as far as women are concerned he is virtually impotent. Lallemand gives the following graphic account of such a person's state of feeling towards women:—"Their solitary vice has a tendency to separate those practising it from women. At first of course it is on the sex that their thoughts dwell, and they embellish an ideal being with all the charms of imaginary perfection : the habit, however, which enslaves them little by little, changes and depraves the nature of their ideas, and at last leaves nothing but indifference for the very reality of which the image has been so constantly evoked to aid their criminal indul- gence. At a later period, when erection becomes temporary and too incomplete for them to think of sexual intercourse, they abandon themselves with fury to their fatal habit, notwithstanding the almost complete flaccidity in which the erectile tissues are left. At this period, the handsomest woman only inspires these patients with repug- nance and disgust; and they ultimately ac(iuire an instinctive aversion, a real hatred for the sex. They dare not always let their feelings on this subject escape them, from fear of their shametiil vice being suspected, or the humiliating condition to wliich they are reduced being discovered; but they lose no opportunity of, as it were, revengmg themselves for the repugnance which they believe they produce in women; and which, in truth, they do inspire, in consequence of the instinctive reci- procity of such feelings; that is inevitable. (Vol. iii. p. 114.) This perversion of the natural excitement caus- ing temporary impotence is among one of the saddest pictures which suffering liumanity can show. A striking instance of the kind has lately come'under the care of the writer of this article. A tall gentlemanly young man, who had been cauterized repeatedly, assured me that he mastur- bated himself in sleep, in spite of all his efforts, ana this particularly occurred after taking wine. He did not find the desire irresistible during his waking moments, except after he had failed an attempting intercourse with women, when, m a kind of despair, he generally yielded to the old temptation. 1,1,1 To avoid the practice during sleep, he had sometimes been compelled to tie his wrists togetUcr by a cord that passed round his neck, so as to be iinable to touch the penis. I have known several such cases, where patients, who wished to cure themselves of the habit of masturbation, have, against their feelings, sought the society of women, have attempted connection in vain, and then have come to me ashamed of their failure, disgusted with themselves for the vice, and apparently almost ready to commit suicide from despair and misery. Others have confessed to me that though sexual intercourse has been attended with diffi- culty, still the act was accomplished, but that it was attended with no pleasure, and as their own self-pollution could still afford them gratification, they acknowledged that they fell back to their 0 d vice, of which they were all the time thoroughly ashamed. The same result occurs in women who have abused their sexual instincts. The ex- planation of this probably is, that the nervous system, and particularly the sympathetic nerve, has been so often and repeatedly excited, that it will only respond to this particular kind of sti- mulus, which it has become accustomed to, and is proof against all others. There is another and very different cause whicli often produces a kind of temporary impotence that creates much more anxiety than it is worth. The student, during any strenuous and long-con- tinued mental exertion, while he as absorbed witti his studies, finds all sexual feelings annihilated. Men who are or have recently been reading hard at the Universities, frequently complain of im- potency of this kind; but they may be as- sured it is only temporary, and that it is easily accounted for. It is undoubtedly true that such persons are temporarily impotent. Nature lias wisely ordained that the testes should not always secrete ; whenever the brain is overtaxed, or any- great muscular exertion is taken, temporarily all sexual desire ceases, but it is quite certain that if the reproductive organs are healthy and have not been abused, sexual feelings and powers will re- turn as soon as the overtaxed brain or muscles are allowed to return to the normal condition. _ IndisiMsiiion for conntction among married men as a temporary affection is another cause of anxiety, which in some produces the greatest a arm. Men, however, who gain their bread by the sweat of their brows or the exhausting labour of their brains, should know full well that they cannot hope to be always in a fit state to perform the sexual act, Duriii'- certain periods, when occupied with other matter°s, the thoughts can dwell but little on sexual subjects, and no disposition exists to m- dulce anything but the favourite or absorbing pur- suit, mental or physical as the case may bo. After a lapse of time, different in various indivi- duals, sexual thoughts arise again, and the man who yesterday was so indifierent to sexual feel- in-^s, as practically to be temporarily impotont, no°w becomes ardent and sexually disposed. _ This quiescent condition is much more persistent in some married men than in others, occasionally so much so as to cause no little alarm. There are many men (married as well as single) who only at verv infrequent intervals feel any disposition for sexual intercourse, just as there are others who never feel any such desire at all. A?"'" t^'^ye are lethargic men that, unless roused, will hardly do anvthimr. It requires an apparent eftort in some men to°eat. There is in some of these cases un- doubtedly great sexual debility. Again, the habitual drinker cares little for sexual enjoyments;