\.TURES OF. 614 SPINE, CURV. makers, which, when moist, may be moulded to the form of the hack whilst the child is lying down on its stomncli; or a plaster cast may be taken of the child's back in the same position, and the leather moulded on the cast. This kind of leather becomes very hard and unyielding when dry, and then, softly padded, is retained in its po- sition by elastic material passing across the chest and abdomen. Gutta-percha, perforated by small holes to prevent heat, may .ilso be employed, but is not so good as the leatiier. The child should also be nursed as much as possible in the reclining position. Constitutionally—Cod-liver-oil, with small doses of steel, should be given; but it is most essen- tial to see that the child has a sufficient supply of good mi 'k. 2. In early childhood, i.e. from two to' three or four years of age, posterior curvature of the spine is also frequently seen dependent upon mus- cular and ligamentous debility, in most cases pro- bably only a continuance of the condition above described ; but at this period cases not uncom- monly present themselves in which a suspicion of caries or destructive disease of the spine exists, and the diagnosis may be difficult and uncertain. Such cases frequently terminate in angular curva- ture, even when opinions against the probability of the existence of disease had been strongly ex- pressed, so that a cautious opinion should always be given, and the cases watched carefully. Another form of posterior curvature sometimes shows itself about this period of life, which, as it occurs in children of parents similarly deformed, and sometimes commences as early as two years of age, may be called hereditary humpback. Treatment.—The general principles of treat- ment are the same as in the first-class, viz. local support to the spine, with constitutional treatment, and the reclining position as far as may be practi- cable. The mechanical support employed may consist either of leather moulded to the back, as previously described, or a steel instrument adapted to the peculiarities of the case. 3. J?i youth.—Posterior curvature of the spine more frequently occurs in boys than in girls, and presents itself in the form commonly described as " round shoulders.'''' Some boys have naturally a thick, clumsy, awkward figure, with high shoulders, and soon acquire a habit of stooping, which, if not checked before eighteen j'ears of age, settles into a permanent cyphosis, or exaggerated posterior curva- ture in the dorsal region. This may sometimes be hereditary, but is more frequently only an acquired bad habit, and often coexists with an indolent and sluggish disposition. Treatment.—These cases are best treated by the drill master, and active gymnastic exercises, which are decidedly preferable to any mechanical support ; but in girls especially, a well contrived leather backboard is often useful, and sometimes a steel spring backboard of the T shape, or some such mechanical contrivance is preferable. 4. In the middle period of life.—Cyphosis or an increase of the posterior curvature of the spine in the dorsal region, is not uncommon in the middle period of life, and may arise from various causes. Sometimes we see it as the result of chronic chest affection, in those who have for several years suffered frrm bronchitis or some pulmonary com- plaint. A severe form of cyphosis in the jidult is not uncommonly the result of chronic rheumatism, the individual having a confirmed stoop, and pre- senting the appearance of premature old age. In a few instances which have fallen under my obser- vation, the termination of the case hag proved the cyphosis to have depended upon caries or destruc- tive disease of the spine, when there were no symptoms by which the invasion of such a formid- able affection could have been diHgnosed. In one instance of this kind, the true nature of tlio affection was not suspected till after the formation of the psoas abscess. In other cases cyphosis may be simply a con- tinuance of the form just described as occurring in the period of youth, but the long-continued posi- tion from certain occupations is au obvious cause in many cases. Treatment.—As a general rule, posterior cur- vature of the spine occurring about the middle period of life may be more or less relieved by the patient wearing a double-crutch spinal instru- ment, with a strong webbing band connecting the crutches posteriorly, so as to exert a certain amount of pressure on the projecting portion of tho spine. This pressure may be increased with great advantage by the addition of a steel plate, es- pecially in those cases in which the existence of destructive disease is suspected ; a firm unyielding steel support evidently gives much more relief in these cases than the webbing belt. 5. In old age.—Increase of the posterior curva- ture of the spine in the dorsal region, or cyphosis, in a severe and rigid form, is a frequent concomi- tant of old age, and may be the result chiefly of occupation, or of debility. A severe form of cy- phosis is sometimes observed in old cavalry officers who have seen a great deal of service in India, and who have attributed it to the fatigue of fre- quent and long marches commonly taken by the Indian army. Among the agricultural labourers of this country, a severe form of cyphosis is also of common occurrence; in very old men of this class, it is almost constant, and among men from fifty to sixty years of age it is also 'frequently witnessed, evidently as the result of their occupation at the plough and other field labour. From these observations, then, it will appear that cases of cyphosis differ very much in tlieir patholog)% according to the different periods oflife at which they occur ; and therefore the classifica- tion above made appears to be best suited to these cases, which, except at the earlier periods of life, and occasionally in the adult, present very little either of surgical interest or practical importance. lateral curvature of the .spine. Sufficient reason might be found for objecting to the continued use of the terra " lateral curva- ture of the spine," in the fact that the curvature is never primarily or essentially in a lateral direction. Mr. John Shaw considered the term serpentine curve more strictly applicable; Sir Charles Bell described it as the lateral or sigmovi, or coniplcv curvature of the spine ; and Dr. Dod as the rotulcd or contorted spine ; but the alteration of a name which has been so long ajiplied to this class of cases, and which at once points to a well-known form of spi?ial distortion as distinguished from the posterior or angular curvature always produced by destructive disease of the spine, would be attended with more inconvenience tlian benefit. Lateral curvature of i/tc spine, then, or, as it is