253 LITHOTRITY. details were carried out. In no case do any dan- gerous or alarming syniptoras appear to have been observed. The following conclusions may be drawn with respect to the comparative eligibility of the various methods of removing stone from the female bladder; bearing in mind that, although the first object is to select an operation as little as possible dangerous to the life of the patient, it is of almost equal importance to avoid permanent injury to the retentive function of the bladder and urethra:— 1st. That dilatation of the urethra is the best operation for.the removal of stones of limited size; but that it cannot be employed for the removal of large stones without serious risk of incontinence of urine. 2nd. That incisions of the urethra in the downward direction should be discarded altogether, but that the incision upwards may be practised with but little danger to life, and little risk of in- continence of urine. It is not, however, adapted for the removal of stones of any considerable mag- nitude. 3rd. That the vestibular operation of Lisfranc possesses no merits of its own to compensate for its manifest disadvantages. 4th. That the lateral operation of Dr. Buchanan is founded upon sound anatomical and surgical principles, and is an excellent operation in children. It is also well adapted for young unmarried women in cases where dilatation is unsuitable, and in whom the small size of the vagina would contraindicate the vesico-vaginal method. 5th. That the vesico-vaginal incision, with immediate closure of the wound by suture, is ad- mirably adapted for the removal of large stones in the case of adult women, in whom the vagina is of average capacity; that it is attended with but little immediate risk, and no risk at all of perma- nent incontinence of urine. 6th. That the high operation is the most dan- gerous of all the various methods which have been proposed, and that almost the only conceivable case in which it would now be justifiable, would be one in which, with a deformed pelvis and a very large stone, extraction per vaginam was impracticable.] James R. Lane. . Bibliography.—A/«ri/, Observ. surla Maniere de Tailler dans les deux Sexes, Paris, 1700. Louis, sur la Tailledes Femmes; Mercure de France, Decemb. 17*6. Mazotti, La Lithotomia delle Donne, Florence, 1764. Plainer, Historia Lithotom. Mulierum, Leipz. 1770. nehre, Dis. Lithotom. Mul. Kilia;, Ejus- dera, Histor. Kritische Darstel. des Steinschbeim Weibe, Heidelb. 1827. Mercsse, Dis. sur la Lithot. Chez la Femme, Strasbur?, 1823. Ilandry, Du Meil. proc^d^ de Taille chcz la Femme, Stra8b.l823. Vacca- Berlinnhieri, della Lithotomia nei due Sessi, Pisn, 1825. Lisfranc, Memoire sur I'Op^rationde la Taille Chez la Femme, Paris, 1847. Litton, Pract. Sur?. Ed. 4. Fergutton, Syst. of Pract. Surg, l^ir P Crampton, On Lithotomy, Dublin Quart. Journal of Med. Science, Feb. 1847. Cheliut, Syst. of Sure translated by South, vol. ii. 1847. Uottrgeru, Mdd Op^r. t. n. Paris, 1810 " i^"-"- translated Lithotomy tomy), 1 Science de Pathol. Surif. Dis. of Women, Snd.'Ed. I'ser.Xh"'/",,,,^ On . Lithotomy in the Female, Lancet, Jan. I8C3. Erich »«, Science and Art of Surg. 3rd. Ed. 1861. Holmes' System of Surg. vol. ii. 1864. G. M. IlumXy, On Lithotomy, Lancet, July 30, 1864. Thomas Bryant On Stone in the Female, Med. Chir. Trans., LITHOTRITY (from A.i'flo5 a stone, and repioi I pierce).-—LITHOTRIPSY (from AWosa stone, and TpiStii I break.) [The article of Mr. Cooper on Lithotrity, having been written nearly thirty years .igo, is so meagre and imperfect that it has been thought necessary to replace it entirelj'. The modern operation of lithotrity consists in introducing certain instruments into the bladder through the urethra, in seizing the calculus with these instruments, in reducing it to detritus and powder, and lastly in promoting the expulsion of the detritus from the bladder through the natural passages. Lithotrity, in one sense of the term, is not a modern operation. Its germ may be found in the old idea of extracting calculi from the urethra without having recourse to a cutting operation. The nietliod described by Albucasis was confined to urethral calculi. In the year I5CI Franco seems to have extended this method to the extrac- tion of calculi from the bladder, and invented a four-branched forceps inclosed in a canula, for that purpose, Hildanus reduced the branches of this instrument to three, and Mr. Hales to two. But the older surgeons did not confine their prac- tice to the simple extraction of calculi from the urethra. The extraction of calculi from the bladder without breaking them was practised in Egypt from time immemorial; and the French surgeons who accompanied Bonaparte in his Egyptian expedition saw the operation there. Indications of the practice of breaking small calculi in the bladder may, however, be found in the writings of many ancient authors; but the operation was not seriously proposed or discussed until 1813, when a Bavarian surgeon, M. Gruithuisen, published an account of his instruments for perforating and crushing vesical calculi. (Salzlnire/ Med. Chir. Zuiiung, vol. i. p. 289. I8I3.) In 1819 Mr. Elderton published in the April number of the Edinhtircjh Med. and Surg. Journal his proposal for attacking calculi with a curved two-branched instrument and perforator. But the means proposed by the German as well as the English surgeon were incapable of being practi- cally applied. To M. Civiale is due the merit of having taken up the question in 1817; of having devised instruments by which the operation might be performed; of having been the first to perform the operation on the living subject (January 13,1824); and, finally, of having by the labour and perse- verance of forty years firmly established the operation in the rank which it occupies at the present day. Lithotrity is chiefly made up of two principa parts—viz. seizing the stone in the bladder, and re- ducing the stone into powder. This latter process may be eff'ected by perforation, by percussion, or by crushing. ^ The earlier operations of M. Civiale, M. Leroy d Etiolles, and others were performed with per- forating instruments. In 1832 Baron Ileurte- loup introduced his method of percussion. Both methods are now abandoned for the more simple and effectual one of crushing the stone into small fragments and powder by means of pressure Previously to the year 1024 all the crushing