MAMMA, DISEASES OF. ■!■ 2 ' continued activity and repose, in which it is placed as an organ of secretion. (See Cumin, in JEdiiib. Med. and Surg. Jour, vol. xxvii. p. 225.) 275 Injlammation of the Mamma. [Inflammation may assail either the subcutaneous celhilar tissue, the submammary cellular tissue, or the mammary gland itself. It is an affection of frequent occur- rence duriniT lactation, and commonly terminates in the formation of matter. The first form pre- sents the characters of phlegmonous inflammation in general. This is seldom limited to its original seat, but usually combined with analogous pro- cesses in the proper glandular substance. The inflammation may be restricted to the connec- tive tissue underlying the areola, or may ex- tend throughout the mamma. The subareolar phlegmon occurs in the course of pregnancy and lactation, as the res\ilt of excoriations, fissures, and ulcers of the nipples ; in such cases, the areola assumes a dusky red, or livid hue, be- comes painful, and swollen ; and if the inflamma- mation do not yield within three or four days, small circumscribed abscesses make their appear- ance, which, left to themselves, generally burst in from six to ten days. The proper subcutaneous phlegmon is mostly a secondary affection, the sequel of inflammation of the mammary gland, of erysipelas, or of eczema. It is susceptible of being resolved, but generally terminates in suppu- ration, and even under favourable circumstances the duration of the complaint is from six to four- teen days. The wider spread the inflammation, the more speedily fever sets in, and the more vio- lent it becomes. While the subareolar abscess rarely exceeds the size of a walnut, that of the other may surpass that of the fist; the integu- ment may give way spontaneously in the course of twelve days, but sometimes not before the lapse of a month. In order to ascertain tlie pre- sence of matter, the surgeon ought to press the breast in the direction of one of its principal diameters. In doubtful cases, it is advantageous to have the aid of an assistant, who fixes the breast or compresses it in the direction of the pre- sumed abscess ; while the surgeon, having his hands at liberty, can more readily determine the fluctuation of fluid. Velpeau witnessed some cases m which the inflamed cellular tissue sloughed fphlegmonous or gangrenous erysipelas) and which Jed to partial or total destruction of the substance of the gland, or ended fatally, typhoid symptoms having supervened. ' In the treatment of those forms of inflamma- tion the main indication for the practitioner is to procure a speedy outlet for the accumulating puru- lent matter, and this is furthered by the continued application of warm fomentation and poultices. When fluctuation is distinctly perceptible, a free incision should be made through the thinnest in- tegument at the most dependent part of the swelling. In the instance of subareolar inflam- mation the mother is usually compelled to wean tbe child on account of the sharp pain which ac- companies the act of suckling. This does not apply to phlegmon situate elsewhere in the breast Where gangrene threatens, compresses soaked iri camphorated spirit ought to be diligently applied iJf^Tf'"'' ^'"^ coZeclive imue. i his may occur as a primary affection may be associated with inflammation of the gl'an dular substance, or of the subcutaneous connective tissue ; It occasionally follows caries, and necrosis ot the ribs, and empyema or pulmonary abscess perforating the wall of the chest. It is not con- fined to pregnant or suckling women. It is gene- rally ushered in with rigors, a sense of weight and tension in the breast, unattended, however, in the first instance, with any notable redness, or tenderness on pressure. By-and-by, pain is felt in the part, and in the instance of abscess forming underneath the mamma, the latter, when com- pressed towards the wall of the chest, imparts the sensation of resting on a bladder filled with liquid. At this period, a faint red, cedematous swelling may be perceived in the breast, but no dis- tinct fluctuation of fluid. The abscess, which often attains a large size, generally opens in some point of the circumference of the mamma ; sometimes instead of a single large abscess being formed, there are several of smaller dimensions, and which do not always communicate with each other. This affection may terminate fatally through pleuritis supervening, through perforation of the intercostal muscles and the pleura with effusion of pus into the cavity of the pleura, or the anterior medias- tinum, and lastly through pysemia. The peculiar resiliency of the gland, as Mr. Nunn observes, renders the early recognition of an abscess placed beneath it a matter of consider- able difliculti', and the obscurity as to where the pus will spontaneously escape by no means simpli- fies the matter. Whenever the abscess is fully formed, an incision ought to be made in order to evacuate the contents ; and the most convenient situation for this purpose is at the outer and lower circumference of the mamma, nnless some other pomt presents in which fluctuation is im- pending. A piece of oiled lint is to be intro- duced with m the wound, and poultices applied. The closure of the cavity of the abscess will be promoted by the employment of a suitable com- pressive bandage. (0» Injlammalion of the Breast p. 51.) An interesting case of this kind was sent to town to'be under the writer's care in bt. Mary s Hospital, some years back, by Mr Harbroe, of Dorking. An unmarried female 26 years of age, had a tumour about the size of'the fist, occupying the outer portion of the left breast The tumour was irregular to the feel, beins in some parts hard, in others soft and elastic Slieht tenderness on pressure was experienced at a soot situate 111 its axillary border. In the upper and also in the lower portion of the swelling was an obscure feeling of fluctuation. The tuniour was freely movable over the pectoral muscle, and not adherent to the skin. The cutaneous v;ins were prominent; the nipple was retracted ; slieht l-.n cinating pain was felt in the part, inst and during the flow of the catanienia.-' A Urn d gland was perceived in the axilla about a fort nyht before she came under my observation She was of a spare make, and of a nervous tempera- ment; had a clear florid complexion ; her Keneral health was and had been good. Three years pre viously she had a little pain and swelliinr in the breast, but these subsided. About a year preced ing, the nipple began to fall in; nine months later the swelling was observed, and had rapidly in creased m size. After making a careful examina- tion of the tumour, I introduced nn exploratory trocar through the tender point above described