420 OVARIOTOMY. arises, peritoneum, and to the lymphatic glands in the groin. The uterine artery, which sometimes may arise from the umbilical artery, is a branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac artery. According to Weber, a small branch, only 1"' thick, leaves the uterine artery, before the latter reaches the fundus of the uterus, passes between the folds of the broad ligament outwards, sends twigs to the tube, and enters the ovary at the insertion of the ligament of the ovary, which it exclusively supplies. According to this view, which Theile and Cruveillier endorse, the internal spermatic artery would have no share in supplying the ovary with blood. It is, however, more likely that both arteries conjoin in this office. The spermatic veins are ramifications of the pudendal and utero-vaginal plexuses, and have no valves. Besides the arteries and veins, numerous lympha- tic vessels, which ultimately, after a devious course and many inosculations, terminate in the lumbar plexus, pass from and between the broad liga- ment, the ovary and the tube, and are conseciuently also enclosed in the pedicle. This anatomical sketch is introduced with the object of showing the great vascularity of the pedicle, and of pointing out the high importance of contriving the division and ultimate separation of the tumor, and of securing the pedicle in such a manner as to prevent effectually any haemorrhage both during the act of division and afterwards, as well as the ill consequences which might arise from the decomposition of any portion of the pedicle or from inflammation around it. The principal methods of separating and securing the pedicle are the following:— 1. Acupressure and the wire-compress. 2. Ligature, either of the entire pedicle, or of its vessels only. 3. The e'craseur. 4. The actual cautery, or cauterisation combined with compression. 5. The clamp. 1. Acupressure has never been tried by the writer for securing the pedicle. Sir James Simpson was successful in one case. Sir William Fergusson has tried it, but was obliged to resort to the ligature. 2, Ligature of the Pedicle.—The pedicle may be tied with a strong silken or hempen ligature before cutting off the cyst. The slipping of the ligature is best obviated by transfixing the pedicle and tymg it in two or more portions ; or a clamp may first be applied, the cyst cut away, and the pedicle then transfixed and tied below the clamp. But if this be done the clamp must be loosened before the ligatures are tightened, or the compressed tissues are so held that the knot cannot be tied so tight that it will not slip off as soon as the clamp is removed. If it be desired only to tie the vessels, it may be done by feeling the arteries, and carrying a ligature round them through tlie pedicle before the cyst is cut away ; or after the application of a clamp and removal of the cyst, holding the pedicle carefully with forceps as the clamp is loosened, and tying any vessel which bleeds. The great objection to this plan is, that there is often much loose cellular tissue, rich in small veins, which go on oozing after all the ;er vessels have been tied. Whichever maj the plan preferred, the important question be shall the ends of the ligatures be cut off and the wound closed, or shall they be left hanging- out through a part of the wound, purposely left open for their passage iind that of the slough they embrace when it separates ? Dr. Tyler Smitii adopts the first plan. Dr. Claj', of Manchester, still advocates the latter practice. The writer has tried it, and with success in about a fifth of the cases only ; and he will not willingly adopt it again. In its favour it may be said that it is a method applicable in all cases ; that it secures an outlet for serum from the peritoneal cavity, and that after the separation of the ligature and slough no foreign body is left within the patient. But it seems hotter to have a choice of all these methods and adopt each in its appropriate case than to strive after one method applicable to all cases. The ligature threads act as a sort of seton in the peri- toneal cavity, sets up inflammation and excites the formation of the serum for which it is said to provide the outlet. Then, if the patient re- coverg, there is a great liability to ventral hernia. The cicatrix remains weak at the spot where the ligatures passed out, and it yields before the pressure outwards of the viscera. The writer has seen this in nearly every case where he followed this plan. On all these grounds, if we use one or more ligatures, it appears better to cut off the ends short, and close up the wound completelj^ Wire has been used for this purpose, but it seems an irrational practice. Silk, if pure, is an animal substance, and experiment proves that it may be absorbed. Wire cannot be absorbed, and it must be more or less of a mechanical irritant. We have to look to the effect on the tissues strangulated rather than the material by which the strangulation is effected. If anything like what goes on outside the body when the clamp is used, or inside when the wound is left open for ligatures, were to go on when the wound is closed, it is difficult to understand how any patient could possibly sur- vive the process. She would almost infallibly be poisoned by absorption of the fetid products of the decomposing stump. But a very different series of changes must go on when the wound is closed and access of air is shut off. At any rate, experience proves that patients do survive the pro- cess, and post-mortem examination has shown that ligature and pedicle have been coated by a sort of capsule of lymph. In the writer's own hands this practice has been much less successful than the clamp ; and even when patients have recovered, some of them have long remained in a state of semi-invalidism, very difterent from the robust health which is the rule after successful clamp cases. This plan was originated in 1821 by Dr. Nathan Smith, of Baltimore, who used leather lioatures. Dr. Rogers, of New York, in 1830 also cut off his ligatures " close to the knot, and lett them to absorption." If the writer uses the liga- ture, ho feels disposed to cut off the ends whenever the patient is in a pretty good condition, and sthenic peritonitis with effusion of lymph may be expected ; but if low diftuse peritonitis and effusion of serum may be feared, then it inay be better to leave the ends of the ligatures and secure a drain through the wound for the serum. But we should still search for a better method than '^'"Xricraseur has been used for the compres- sion and crushing of the pedicle and the final