758 TRACHE the trachea; second, opening it when found; third, iVitroducing the tulie. 1st. Reaching the ivindpipe. In thin adult'^ with loria; neclcs there is no difficulty in this part of the operation ; but in short-necked fat persons w'"ose respiration has been gravely compromised, and wliose sterno-mastoid muscles are contracted so aa to bury the trachea deeper, and in whom as a consequence the veins are very full and the restlessness great; and in children where, as a result of the various local applications which have been used, the tissues are infiltrated and the land- marks in a great measure lost, and where the patient exercises no control, the incisions are fre- quently accomplished with much difficulty and anxiety. The very small size of the windpipe in young children is also, of course, a great source of difficulty. The touch must, after the skin is di- vided, be as much trusted to as the sight, and the greatest care taken in all cases as to what is cut. 2nd. To open llie trachea when laid bare needs considerable care, for reasons before mentioned. Its extreme movalnlit}', both longitudinall3'^ and laterally ; its small size in young persons, and the ease with which in them it is effaced or transfixed or greatly injured; the near neighbourhood of great vessels, &c., are all points to be borne in mind. Chassaignao's or Edvvards' hook (which is better from having a straight back), or a simple tenacnlum, help the operator greatly. The tena- culum director was first recommended by Bauchot. Various instruments have been invented to su- persede the knife, but few of these present any advantage, while many of them are hiuhly ob- jectionable. Mr. Erichsen describes a hook which cuts on its concave side, and which aims at both fixing and opening the tube at the same time. Sharp pointed scissors with outer cutting edges, and a notch to prevent their too deep insertion, is another contrivance, suggested by Dr. Marshall Hall, but one of very doubtful efficacy. The skin is pinched up and cut, and then the scissors are pushed in at the proper part, the blades expanded so as to en- large the wound, and the canula passed between the blades. Garius' trachea forceps are very much of the same character. Various other " tracheotomes " have been suggested. In Thom- son's the limbs are obtusely curved near their termination and have cutting points. After being passed transversely between two rings of the trachea at one plunge, and without any preliminary cutting, the limbs are separated by a screw and the canula passed between them- The opening made in the windpipe being here limited to the space between two rings is quite inadequate to the removal of foreign bodies. Gerson's tracheotome consists of three movable blades sharp at their point and meeting closely. These blades are sepnrated by the action of a vice. An incision is made in the first instance, but of limited extent, down to one of the spaces between the rings, and then the tracheotome is inserted and the blades separated and the canula passed between them. Mr. Bill, of the American armj', has recently propdsed to use a trocliar of steel enclosed in a silver ciinuU. The instrument is curved like Bc- Inque's canula for plugging the nares. The point of the trochar is sharp like that of a curved bis- to'iH', and the ba k of the blade is blunt. TJiere is an opening on the back of the canula near its point and rings for fastening it in its place after insertion. The instrument is passed into the windpipe through the crico-thyroid space, and its point withdrawn. The concavity being forwards, the extremity is passed down inside of tlie wind- pipe and made to press on the wall at the part where it is wished to make the opening, and that should be as low .as possible. When got into place, the centre line being carefully observed, the point is made again to protrude and the windpipe pierced from within outwards. The opening in the back of the canula permits of breathing. So soon as the trachea is pierced the opening made is en- larged by the knife, the point of which is passed into the orifice of the canula and the whole drawn upwards or pushed downwards in the middle line. It will be seen that this is truly a double opera- tion, and is in reality both clumsy, complicated, and more dangerous than that it proposes to re- place. Langenbec uses a double hook, the limbs of which are separated by a spring. The wind- pipe is fixed by the hooks, the knife cuts between them so as to open the trachea, and the hooks being separated keep the wound open for the canula. A double knife, or rather a knife whose blade splits when the soft parts have been di- vided, and the windpipe opened, so as to give pas- sage to the canula, has b^en suggested by Liier. M. Sees' instrument, again, consists of a cutting blade concealed between the limbs of a dilator, one of which is a hook. This is intended to fix, cut, and dilate in succession. Maisonneuve uses an instrument which cuts from within out- wards, after having pierced the windpipe. Curved or straight trochars (first used in tracheo- tomy by Santorius) having a trachea tube as canula, have been made of many forms, as those of Decker, Bill, Michaelis, &c. They propose to render the opening of the windpipe quicker, easier, and safer from hajmorrhage, and to enable the canula to be put in place at once. Some instruments again remove a portion of the trachea after perforating it, and thus allow of a larger opening. Dr. Marshall Hall used an instru- ment of this kind. The objection to such a pro- ceeding is that serious contraction of the trachea is said by some, who have tried it, to follow. This, however, has been denied by otlier operators. It may be said, however, that in the hand of a skilful and well-educated surgeon, the knife is in- finitely safer than any of these contrivances, which are apt to beget an ill-founded confidence in those employing them, and to cause them to undertake an operation they are incapable of performing aright, whereas the proper and safe use of such instru- ments in most cases requires actually more care and skill than the knife does. Some of these instruments are used witliout any preliminary incision of the soft parts, and are blindly driven into the windpipe. How easily may the elastic and most nmvable trachea of a young person be pushed aside, effaced or transfi.xed ! The aper- ture, moreover, made by a trochar is far tuo limited for any purpose except the mere admission of air, and is quite inadequate to give exit to a foreign body of any size, or even to allow of the escape of mucus or false membrane. The windpipe has been repeatedly transfixed with the knife, and both sides opened; and thus, in one case, related by Scdillot, fatal hajmorrhage