^^"^ SKIN, DISEASES OF. healthy action by the loduretted glycerine or acetum cantharidis; and the tubercles may be softened and dispersed by painting them over with a solution of potassa fusa, or with the compound tincture of iodine. Pigitwnlary affections, or discolorations of the skin, are aberrations from the natural standard of health of the organ, and of its healthy function. The skin is a chromatogenous organ, and the absence of colour, its excess, or its alteration, are so many signs that the organ is performing its function unhealthily—hence the foundation for therapeutical interference.. Excess of pigment or alteration of pigment may be due to hyperajmia, or have originated in hyperaemia as an exciting cause; simple excess in quantity may result from the presence of an excess of pigment in the blood, ■while loss of pigment may be, as it commonly is, a loss of nervous vitality in the skin. "We may there fore have occasion toemploy constitutional remedies, such as may be known to possess the power of giving tone to the skin, of altering its nutritive processes, of strengthening its nerves, and improv- ing its vitality, such as arsenic, or the tincture of cantharides; or we may suspect an ansemic cause^ and exhibit iron, or the iodide of iron, or even cod-liver oil. At other times, when the skin is simply performing the office of an eliminator of an excess of pigment, we must direct our treatment to those organs which may be seemingly in fault and assist, if possible, the hyperformation of pigment. We have pointed out a cause of morbid production of pigment in exhausted power of the abdominal system of organic nerves; and Addison has shown an association between a morbid con dition of the supra-renal capsules, anaemia, and melasma. Arsenic is known to increase the quantity of the melanic pigment in the skin, hence its peculiar adaptability to the dischromato- dermata, and cantharidine, when used externally, is known to produce a similar effect. We may, therefore, place cantharidine at the head of our local remedies for restoring the normal chromato genous function of the skin ; and follow it up with other useful stimulants, such as the bichloride of mercury, ammonia, the juniper tar soap, hot-air bath, cold ablutions, cold douche, and the shower bath. The most effectual treatment of chloasma, is washing the skin with carbolic acid soap, and sponging with a lotion of carbolic acid, or with one of bichloride of mercury in emulsion of bitter almonds. The dermopliyiic affections are amenable, with more or less success, to stimuhmt local applications, and especially to carbolic acid in lotion and soap, sulphur soap, and the bichloride of mercury in ointment or lotion. ungual affections, degeneration of the structure ff the nail may sometimes give rise to so much in- convenience as to render blistering of the matrix necessary; minor states of derangement may be benefited by painting with the compound tincture of iodine. Ingrowing of the lateral borders of the nail, such as commonly occurs in the great toe, may be best remedied by scraping the nail until it is thin and flexible, and then trimming its edges; while onychia will require an antiphlo- gistic treatment at first, and subsequently, if it get mto a chronic condition, the free use of stinm- iHut applications and caustics. Onychia is some- times dependent on the syphilitic poison, and sometimes on scrofula, in which case the constitu- tional remedies applicable to those diseases are rendered necessary, combined with mercurial lotions and ointments in the instance of syphilis, and mildly stimulating applications, for example, iodide of potassium, or ammonium rubbed down with lard, in scrofula. Diseases of the Itairs and liairfollicles being sometimes the consequence of a congenital weak- ness of tissue, sometimes of deficient nutritive power, and sometimes of actual inflammation of the follicles, commonly of a low or nervous type, may require the aid of constitutional remedies to improve the innervation and nutrition of the skin, as of arsenic, cantharidine, bitter tonics, or ferru- ginous tonics ; and also of local remedies, of the class of stimulants, such as cantharides, iodine, ammonia, sulphur soap, or the juniper tar in al- kaline solution or soap. When, however, inflam- matory irritability with exfoliation of the epi- dermis exists, a diluted ointment of the nitric oxide of mercury is the more appropriate remedy. Alo- pecia, and especially area, calls for the use of stimu- lants, the cantharidine pomatum for the former, the solution of cantharides in strong acetic acid or com- pound tincture of iodine for the latter. Altered direction of the hair, as in trichiasis ciliorum, is to be treated by avulsion ; the trichiasis coacta by the removal of the clotted masses by cutting, fol- lowed, if convenient,by shaving; and altered colour by moderate stimulation of the scalp, and arsenic. Alteration of structure, giving rise to trichonosis, is a disease of debility—of general debility and local debility. It occurs in childhood and youth, and demands the constitutional aid of regimen, of a sound animal diet, bitter and ferruginous tonics, cod-liver oil, with the syrup of the iodide of iron, the mineral acids with mild bitters, and especially of arsenic. While, locally, the best remedies ate ablutions with the carbolic acid, or juniper tar soap and cold water, and inunction with the nitric oxide of mercury ointment, diluted in the propor- tion of one part to three. The diseases more especially affecting the hair-follicles, namely, erythema with altered secretion, kerion, sycosis and favus, besides constitutional means requisite to improve the general health, are benefited by saponaceous ablutions, particularly with the juniper tar soap, and the diluted ointment of the nitric oxide of mercury already mentioned. These means will be sufficient to cure the hyperasmic state of the follicles that gives rise to excessive sebaceous secretion. Kerion and aehores of the follicles require a soothing, and at the same time a mildly stimulating, method of treatment. A cold starch poultice or water dressing when there are crusts, an ointment of the acetate of lead sub- sequently, and at a later date, to disperse sub- cutaneous accumulations of serum, painting with the compound tincture of iodine. To restore the lone of the skin, with a view to reproduce the hair on the bald spots, ablutions with the juniper tar soap and cold water, with abundance of stimu- lation by combing and brushing, are the most effective means. A similar plan of treatment is applicable to favus, also a disease of childiiood and youth. Sycosis, however, a disease of man- hood, is remarkable for its obstinac)-, and olten for its severity. In sycosis, a local treatment is more especially ind'icated ; avulsion of the hairs, ablution with the potash soap, frictions