720 TETAN common purgntive medicines, I would strongly recommend to the recollection of practitioners the oleum tiglii, a drop of which, blended with a little mucilage, and put on the root of the tongue, will operate powerfully on the bowels. Another remedy, said to have frequently effected a cure in tetanus, is mercury. (See Journ. de Mid. p. 45.) Mercurial frictions, practised so as to bring on a quick affection of the mouth, and iu an early stage of the disorder, are preferred. Others contend, that it matters not whether mer- cury be rubbed into the body or given internally. It is generally allowed, that opium may be advan- tageously exhibited at the same time. This prac- tice was first adopted in the West Indies (see Edinb. Physical and Literary Essays, vol. iii.), where it succeeded in many cases. Whatever benefit, however, may have been experienced from this plan in mild cases, it completely fails in the acute form of the disease. In Egypt mercurial frictions appeared to Baron Larrey to aggravate the symptoms. {Mem. de Ckir. Mil. t. i. p. 257); and Dr. Emerj', Mr. Guthrie, and other medical officers attached to our army in the Peninsula, tried inunction of the whole bodj-, three times a day, with strong mercurial ointment, in unlimited quantity, with no degree of success. After the battle of Toulouse, a fatal case even occurred in a man strongly under the influence of mercury, which he had been previously using for the cure of the itch. {Sir J. McGrigor, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 454.) I have repeatedly seen mercury tried, and almost invariably without suc- cess. Calomel, corirbined with ipecacuanha, is also generally ineflicacious in acute cases; but in chronic ones it proves serviceable by keeping open the bowels. Another method of treating tetanus is that of administering the most powerful tonics and stimu- lants, such as wine, brandy asther, preparations of ammonia, bark, cordials, &c. The introduciion of this plan was chiefly owing to the eminent Dr. Rush, Professor of Medicine in Philadelphia, who published, in the Trans, of the American Pliilos. Society, vol. ii., a paper entitled, " Obs. on the Cause arid Cure of Tetanus." Dr. Rush considers tetanus .as a disease essentially connected with debility, and he recommends for it the exhibition of the preceding class of remedies. He particularly advises the liberal use of wine and Peruvian bark; and, as we have already stated, when tetanus arises from a wound, he directs the dilatation of it, and dressing with oil of turpentine. Considerable success is represented as having attended the prac- tice. Several other instances of success are also recorded by Dr. Hosack, {American Medical liepository, vol. iii.) [Large doses of \\hisky and morphia have been advised and adopted. {America?i Medical Times, imi, ii. p. 29.)] Dr. Elliotson, considering neuralgia, paralysis agitans, chorea, and tetanus to be " affections of the nerves, or of those parts of the brain and spinal marrow which are immediately connected with them," was induced to try the effect of sub-car- bonate of iron in three examples of traumatic tetanus, in consequence of the success with which it had been exhibited in the other complaints above specified. Costiveness was obviated by giving 5ij of the ol. terebinthiusc, followed, when requisite, the ol. ricini. The subcarbonate of iron was given in doses of 5ij. and even half an ounce, every two hours. It was mixed with twice its quantity of treacle, and blended with strong beef-tea. Two of the cases recovered; the third which was one where the spasms were excessively violent, and the pulse 140, and was too rapid in its progress for an effectual trial of the remedy, the patient dying the day after commencement of the plan. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xv. p. 161, &c.) I tried the subcai'bonate in one case of traumatic tetanus, but it was in an advanced stage, and the patient died on the following day. According to Dr. Elliotson, it has been given in the West Indies with considerable success. Nothing is a more certain proof of our not being acquainted with any very effectual method of treating a disease, than the multiplicity of reme- dies, which are as opposite as possible in their effects. We have seen that Dr. Rush conceived that tetanus was a disease connected with debilit}-; and he has recorded examples in which it was suc- cessfully treated with tonics and stimulants. Dr. Bright has lately published a case, in which the free exhibition of sulphate of quinine, with bark and stimulants, was followed by the patient's re- covery. (See Gny''s Hospital Reports, series i. vol. i.) [Several cases have recently been re- corded in the several journals of success follow- ing frequent and large doses of quinine. It was given in twenty-five cases at Guy's Hospital, and of these seven recovered. (See Guy's Hos- pital Reports, series iii. op. ciV.)] We learn from Dr. Rees, that there are in America very many surgeons who pursue the stimulating plan of Dr. Rush : "among these is Professor Hosack, who relies upon Madeira wine ; while there are many others who adopt the opposite theory, and not only bleed unsparingly, but combine the whole antiphlogistic battery; and instances of their success are reported, quite as numerous as those of the opposite theory and practice." (See American ed. of this Dictionary, part ii. p. 346.) Many practitioners are advocates for venesection, especially in the early stage of tetanus. Dr. Dick- son thinks that in a full habit, where the wound is swelled, inflamed, and painful, venesection, with free purging, and such other means as are calculated to allay the general and local irritation, affords the fairest chance of averting the danger. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. part 2.) Larrey has also pub- lished several cases in which bleeding had a good effect. We are informed by Sir James McGrigor, that in our military hospitals in Spain venesection had a fair trial. In three cases at St. Andero, de- tailed by Mr. G uthrie, this was the principal remedy. One patient with tetanus, from a wound in the back part of the hand, was bled nearly ad deli- quium several times with good effect, calomel and diaphoretics being also given, and he recovered. Another patient was bled in the same manner with such amendment, that he suffered but little from spasm, and could open his mouth very well, when he was seized with diarrhcca, which, in his debi- litated state, carried him off". In the third case, which was one of acute tetanus, venesection, pushed to the utmost, totally failed. {Op. cii. vol. vi. ' Sir Astley Cooper represents bleeding as hurtful in tetanus, and I have seen cases in which it seemed to me to shorten the patient's life. Dr. Elliotson pronounces bleeding not to be of any service, unless