SKIN, DISEASES OF, skin unattended with thickening; the seat of the discoloration ia the rete mucosum ; nni freckles are a common illustration. Spilus and Nievus comprise the group of mothers' marks; the spili being those marks which are characterised by pig- mentary discoloration; and the najvi such as are due to an abnormal development of the vessels of the skin, whether of its arterial or its venous structure. Having, with the aid of the Wiilanean classifica- tion, succeeded in finding the order to which a par- ticular disease belongs, and having also determined its genus, we have, in the next place, with the view to establish a correct diagnosis, to ascertain its species or variety; and having settled the spe- cies, there remains the still graver duty of prescrib- ing an appropriate treatment. But a knowledge of the proper treatment of a disease must be preceded b)' a knowledge ofitscoKse ; and, for the discovery of the cause of cutaneous diseases, the Wiilanean classification is no longer serviceable. We will, therefore, while our attention is still engaged with the genera, and before we proceed to investigate further its species and varieties, take into conside- ration the nature of the cause of cutaneous disease. A classification founded on the cause of disease, in other words, an Etiological classification, is es- pecially valuable to the physician or surgeon, inas- much as it supplies him with the key to the proper treatment, without a knowledge of which all clas- sification, however scientific or refined, must be of little practical worth. The Wiilanean classifica- tion will still be employed for the purposes of diagnosis, and will be of great use to the student of these diseases; but the practitioner will find his best help in a properly constituted etiological clas- sification. Acting upon this idea we some years ago proposed a classification, founded on the cause of these complaints, of which the following is a summary:— The diseases affecting the general structure of the skin admit of arrangement into five groups, according as they arise: 1, from general causes; 2, from special external causes; 3, from special internal causes; 4, from the syphilitic poison; and 5, from organic poisons of unknown origin. 1. The general cause principally concerned in the production of cutaneous diseases is lowered vital power, however induced, and giving rise to derangements of innervation, of assimilation, of hajmatosis, and of nutrition; and the groups or genera included under this head are :—Erythema, the type of the exanthemata; lichen, the type of papulte; eczema, the type of vesiculse; impetigo and ecthyma, the type of pustuloe; herpes and pemphigus, the type of bullte; phyma, the type of the furuncular eruptions; and purpura. Erythema as the type of exantliematic eruptions is associated with erysipelas, urticaria, and roseola. Lichen stands at the head of a group of which gutta rosa- cea, strophulus, and prurigo, are members; and eczema, the psora of the Greeks, brings with it its chronic or squamous form Psoriasis, and Miliaria. 2. The special external causes of disorders of the skin are, parasitic animals,* and extremes of heat 577 * Some dermo-pathologists admit another cause of external origin in a parasitic vegetable fungus, de- veloped in the skin. Tlie diseases attributed to this cause will be found in a group by tlicmselves, under the name of I'hytodermata, among the " Diseases of the hair-follicles and hairs." VOL. II. and cold :—for example. Scabies ; Malis, or cuta- neous vermination; Coinhustio or burn; and Gelatio or Irost bite. 3. The special internal causes are such as give rise to lepra vulgaris or alplios, lupus, scrofuloderma, clieloides, and elephantiasis Grajco- rum. 4. The cutaneous disorders proceeding from tlie syphilitic poison assume the principal typical forms of cutaneous eruption in general, for ex- ample, erythema and roseola, lichen, tnheicula, and rnpia; to which may be added onychia and alopecia. 5. The diseases arising from organic poisons of unknown origin, and inducing eruptive fevers, are: rubeola, scarlatina, variola, varicella, vaccinia, and eqninia. Before, however, we leave the subject of classi- fication, it may be well to take a brief survey of the chief classifications and arrangements under which cutaneous diseases have been heretofore grouped. In studying these diseases, our first object is diagnosis; hence we have already drawn attention to that form of classification which may be regarded as essentially a classification of diaij- nosis, namely the classification of elementary pa- thological lesions; the classification which origi- nated with the German nosologist Plenck, and has been subsequently pruned and improved by Wil- lan. But the time has now arrived when the stu- dent of cutaneous medicine seeks for another kind of information; he desires to discover the cause of these diseases, in order that, knowing the cause, he may be guided to a rational and appropriate Ireai- mejii. Out of this want has arisen the idea of another kind of classification, a classification which, in contradiction to the artificial method of Plenck and Willan, and in imitation of the botanical system of Jussieu, as compared with that of Lin- naeus, has been denominated the natural classifi- cation. A natural 'classification must, therefore, lead us to the treatment of the disease through a knowledge of the cause; hence it is also named an Etiological or a Tlieiapeutical classification. The earliest natiual classification of cutaneous diseases, with which we are acquainted, is that of Celsus; who divides them into—1, such as should be treated with diet; 2, such as should be treated with medicines; and 3, such as should be treated by surgical means. This is obviously a.thei-apeu- tical classification; but he further introduces into it a topographical element, when he subdivides the diseases to be treated by medicines into a group of general, and a group of topical afl;"ection8. An- other natural classification of more recent times is that of Alibert, first published in J810; and re- modelled in 1832. Alibert's classification, the " Arbre des Dermatoses,'' is founded on certain affinities or analogies which are supposed to exist between certain diseases, and to lead consequentlv to a method of treatment which is bimiiar fiir each separate group. 11 is groups or families of cuta- neous eruptions, twelve in nuuiber, the twelve branches of the " Arbre des Dermatoses," aye ,is follows :—Eczematous; exanthematous; teigneous- dartrous; cancerous; leprous; verolous (syphili- tic); strumous; scabious; luematous; dyschronia- tons; and heteromorphous. Devergie rejects the imputation of invention in the method of grouping which he has adopted in his excellent work, and which he modestly dis- tinguishes by the name of "arrangement." As the basis of this arrangement, he endeavours to P P ^