INFLAMMATION, 71 increased nutrition persisted, the pressure upon tlie jierve-tibres might go to the extent of paralysing them, in which case the small arteries would become dilated; the capillaries must in consequence be fully distended with blood, and that congestion which constitutes one of the earlier stages of inflam- mation, as it occurs in man and the higher animals, would result." (Proceediiigs of Royal Society, Croonian Lecture, May 11, 1865, p. 250.) The doctrines of Vircliow had been generally accepted,alike as to inflammations and new growths, and the origin of pus corpuscles. The production of inflammation in the corpuscles of connective tissue, was the view considered orthodox on the Conti- nent, when in 1867 Cohnheim, then assistant in the Pathological Institute in Berlin, in a paper {Uelier Entzundung zind Eiterung. Vircliow's Archiv, vol. xl.)drew attention to another mode in which leucocytes, identical with pus corpuscles, accumulate in inflamed tissues. Taking his stand on the generally recognised phenomena of trau- matic keratitis, he asserted that in the inflamed cornea, '• however numerous might be the pus cor- puscles, so even that there was hardly room for them, yet there were the fixed corneal corpuscles, v/ith their oflFsets in their normal disposition.'' Either, therefore, the pus corpuscles had originated in wandering elements already existing in the cornea, or they had wandered into it from with- out. Further experiments were made to clear up this doubt, and from these Cohnheim came to the conclusion that " simple traumatic keratitis in- variably commenced at the border of the cornea, and spread thence towards its centre." First would appear around the margin of the cornea a slight greyish turbidity, which would gradually extend until the whole organ was involved. This tur- bidity was due to pus corpuscles, which, however, might be removed, when the fixed corpuscles would still be seen apparently unchanged. The whole of the phenomena of simple traumatic keratitis lent themselves, as he thought, to one interpretation, and one interpretation only—that the pus corpus- cles, the products of the inflammation, originated in wandering bodies, which had made their way from without into the substance of the cornea. This he endeavoured to make more certain by the employment of colouring matters, as aniline blues, so as to be able in a fashion to identify certain bodies tinged with them. This colouring matter was introduced into the lymph sac of a frog, when portions of it would bo devoured by the leucocytes therein contained, which henceforth by its means became recognisable. After a time keratitis was set up in the same animal, and the pus corpuscles in the cornea being examined by the microscope, certain of them were seen to contain the blue granules, thus proving, as he thought, that those at least had been formerly white blood or lymph cor- puscles. Thus far the researches had been carried on in a non-vascular tissue ; but to settle definitely the origin of these wandering bodies, a vascular tissue had to be studied. The mesentery of the frog was chosen, and to keep the animal at absolute rest during the experiment, a solution of curara, as first practised by Strieker, was injected subcuta- neously. The details of the mode in which this now celebrated experiment is performed are simple. The abdomen of a frog is exposed by an incision on the left side away from the liver. Any bleed- ing is stopped by cold water. The animal is ex- tended on a plate of glass prepared for tlie purpose by having a cork ring stuck to it ; the mesen- tery is drawn out and spread over this, and the intestine fastened to the cork by small pins. The whole is then placed on the stage of the micro- scope, and the microscope adjusted. The mesen- tery should be kept moist with weak salt water during the examination. The exposure of the mesentery is enough to ex- cite inflammation, when all its phenomena may be watched with ease. A goodly portion of Cohn- heim's paper is occupied with details of this expe- riment, and of the normal and abnormal phenomena it reveals. Of the latter, that is to say of the phenomena of the inflammatory process, the first is dilatation of the vessels, beginning with the arte- ries ; afterwards, but more slowly, extending to the veins. Meanwhile the blood flow is retarded in velocity, and of the two layers in which the vascular contents arrange themselves, a peripheral clear lymph-space and a central mass of corpuscles, the former is gradually invaded by numerous colourless corpuscles; after a time a stray red one may be seen among them also. The white cor- puscles tend to adhere more and more to the wall of the vein, sometimes being swept away by the current, to be brought up again at some sudden bend of the vessel, this time, it may be, to adhere permanently—permanently, that is to say, as far as the blood stream is concerned, for, if they be watched, they will be seen to gradually penetrate the wall of the vessel, until, as little buttons, they are next seen projecting from the outer surface of the vessel's wall. This process goes on until each leuco- cyte is next seen attached to the outside of the vessel by a fine thread, which, giving way, the leucocyte is once more free, but it is now what we call a pus corpuscle. This emigration may be ob- served in the case of corpuscles containing particles of aniline blue, which renders them easily recog- nisable without as well as within the vessel. The migration is efi'ected by virtue of the amoeboid powers possessed by the colourless blood corpuscles. Nor is the emigration limited to the colourless corpuscles. In the capillaries the red corpuscles appear as if forced into and through the wall of the vessel, and to be constricted by it into the shape of an hourglass. But these bodies do not pierce the walls by virtue of their own spontaneous movements ; the motive power in this instance is the increased blood pressure, necessitated by the retarded blood flow. In this way the connective tissue of the mesen- tery becomes filled with colourless multiple nu- cleated corpuscles, which also enter or emip-rate on to its surface, and constitute the so-called exuda- tion or pus corpuscles. " What, therefore, was inferred from the experiments with colourinn' matter in the case of the inflamed cornea, namely, that a part at least of the pus corpuscles originated from the blood, has been proved by direct observa- tion." Further, the author thought that in this way all the pus of an inflamed part might be pro- duced, that is to say, partly by means of increased production of leucocytes, increased rate of blood ilow, increased rapidity of emigration, and partly multiplication by subdivision of the extra vascular corpuscles. But, so far back as 1811, the increase nf white blood corpuscles in ail inflamed part had been