JOINTS, D] operations, without any subsequent unpleasant symptoms, although the patient appears to have been previously suliject to repeated attacks of severe inflammation "of the joint. {Fat/iol. and Surg. Obs., ed. 5, p. 254.;] Hydrops Arliculi — signifies a collection of serous fluid in a joint. The knee is more sub- ject than other joints to dropsical disease, which has been known, however, to affect the wrist, ankle, and shoulder joints. {Boyer, Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 465.) Mr. Russell adopts the opinion that some of these cases are venereal, and others scrofulous. Hydrops articnli generally arises from contusions, rheumatism, sprains, exposure to severe cold, the presence of extraneous cartilaginous bodies in the joint, and in general from anything which irritates the synovial membrane; and, as already explained, it is a common attendant on inflammation of that texture: the complaint also sometimes follows fevers, but in most instances it is purely a local affection, quite independent of general debility. (Boyer, t. iv. p. 467.) As Sir Benjamin Brodie has noticed, cases do occur, but not often, in which a joint is swollen from a preternatural quantity of fluid collected in its cavity, without pain or in- flammation. The disease may be compared to hydrocele, and depend either upon diminished action of the absorbents, or increased action of the secreting vessels. This is the case sometimes particularly signified by the terms Hydrarthrus [Hydrarthrosis^ and Hydrops ariiculi. Much more frequently the swelling of a joint, from an accumulation of fluid in it, is attended with pain and inflammation. Then it may be presumed that the synovial membrane is or has been in- flamed, and the secretion from it augmented. (See Brodie's Pathol, and Surg. Obs. on Joints, p. 7, ed. 3.) Hydrops articuli presents itself in the form of a soft tumour, circumscribed by the attachments of the capsular ligament, without change of colour in the skin, accompanied with fluctuation; it is in- dolent, and but little painful, causing hardly any impediment to the motion of the joint, yielding to the pressure of the finger, but not retaining any impression, as in oedema. The swelling does not occupy every side of the joint, being most con- spicuous where the capsular ligament is loose and superficial. In the wrist it occurs at the anterior and posterior parts of the joint, but especially in the former situation, while it is scarcely percep- tible at the sides. In the ankle it is more ap- parent in front of the malleoli than anywhere else; and in the shoulder it does not surround the jomt, but is almost always confined to the fore- part of it, and can only be seen in the interspace between the deltoid and great pectoral muscles. _ In the knee-joint, which is the most common situation of hydrops articuli, the tumour does not occur behind the articulation, but at the front and sides. Behind, the capsular ligament is too narrow and resisting to admit of being much distended with the synovia, while in front and laterally it is broad, sp that it can there yield considerably in propor- tion as the quantity of fluid increases. The swell- ing is at first circumscribed by the attachments of the capsular ligament; but in consequence of the accuiiiulation of fluid, it afterwards exceeds these limits above, and distends the capsule more SEASES OF, 119 pr less upward between 'the thigh-bone and the extensor muscles of the leg, which are lifted up by the swelling. Boyer has seen it reach to the upper third of the thigh. The swelling is irre- gular in shape; it is most prominent where the capsular ligament is wide and loose; and it is in some measure divided longitudinally into two lateral portions by the patella, the ligament of the patella, and the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg; all which parts the synovia raises and pushes forward, though in a much less degree than on either side, where the capsule is less protected. Of these lateral portions the interjial is broadest and most prominent, because the part of the cap- sule between the patella and edge of the internal condyle, being larger than that situated between the patella and edge of the external condyle, yields in a greater degree to the distending fluid. The motions of the leg, which are generally little interrupted by this disease, make a' difference in the shape and consistence of the swelling. In flexion the tumour becomes harder, tenser, and broader, and more prominent at the sides of the knee-pan, which is somewhat depressed by its ligament. In extension the tumour is softer, and the fluctuation plainer. In order to feel distinctly the fluctuation, which is one of the best symptoms of the disease, the ends of two or three fingers should be placed on one side of the swelling, while the opposite side is to be struck with the end of the middle finger of the other hand. The patella, being pushed forward, away from the articular pulley, is very movable, and, as it were, floating. When it is pressed backward, while the leg is extended, it can be felt to move a certain way before it meets with the resistance of the articular pulley ; and, on the pressure being discontinued, it immediately separates from this part again. By such symptoms hydrops articuli may easily be distinguished from other diseases of the joints; from tumours of the bursa mucosa under the ex- tensor tendons of the leg, or in front of the knee- pan ; from rheumatism, oedema, &c. [The nature of the fluid varies; ordinarily it is unctuous and viscid, like synovia, of a yellowish colour, and as it flows through the canula, it pre- sents the density of oil. Sometimes, however, it is reddish, or even altogether red. Occasionally the fluid is serous. But this last is the rarest,— a fact that was verified during the period when puncture had become the method of treatin" hv- drarthrosis. Rarely this fluid, in recent °cases of hydrarthrosis, is mixed with albuminous flakes, or of hordeiforin grains ; in such examples we can suppose, with some amount of certainty, that the cause of the malady has been either an active in- flammation or external violence. {Nelaton, Path, Chir. t. ii. p. 170.) Of seven cases tapped by Dr. Macdonnell previous to injection vvith iodine, the fluid was found to be mostly of a straw or yellow colour, clear, and resembling the fluid of hydro- celes. It coagulated by heat, and varied in quan- tity from a few up to 16 or 18 ounces. (See Montreal Medical Chronicle, June and November, 1857.) The nature of the fluid after withdrawal will oftentimes give a clear idea of the state of the synovial membrane itself: thus, a viscous thick liquid, drawing into long threads rather tlnin drop- ping, shows a considerable structural change, and