912 VEINS, DISEASES OF. greater or less intensit)'. It becoraes .it the same time distended with inflammatorj' products. These consist of serum, lymph, and pus, according to the kind of inflammation, either separately or mixed together in different proportions. Fluids secreted in the outer surface of a vein readily extend along it, permeating the areolar tissue which connects it with surrounding parts. This may be particularly noticed where a vein is surrounded by a sheath, as is the case with the jugular. The circular fibrous coat also becomes injected, and thickened by deposit. The inner coat soon loses its natural transparency, and becomes wrinkled and even fissured. It may be seen of a dull, opaque, dirty white colour, stained more or less by the contents of the vein. It will consequently, in different cases, assume every hue of red, violet, or brown ; the in tensity of the colour following very accurately that of the coagulum in contact with it. Exudation often occurs between the inner and the outer coats, and the different layers of the former then become disintegrated, or the lining membrane may be cast off in large portions into the interior of the vessel. All the coats of the vein may, under these circumstances, be easily de- tached from each other, or may be separated by serous, fibrinous, or puriform exudation. When these form under the lining membrane, they may be seen as patches of various sizes and shapes through the transparent structure, so long as this retains its integrity. Afterwards they may be poured, together with the fragments of the disin- tegrated membrane, into the cavity of the vessel. The inflammatory exudation between the different coats of the vein destroys its natural pliability, so that when divided it will remain open like an artery. The coats of veins, when mechanically injured, would appear to be as little susceptible of inflam- mation as any structures in the body. The same vessel may be opened several times in succession, and, provided it be properly closed after each operation, no inconvenience will result. The way in which veterinary surgeons unite the edges of veins after bleeding, by means of a pin and twisted ligature, shows the amount of injury which these vessels will bear with impunity, and the same point is frequently illustrated in the present day by the operation of dividing large veins for the cure of varicose ulcers. These remarks apply to instances in which the veins are mechanically injured only; the case is widely different when any irritating fluid has entered their cavities. The amount of disturbance which is then produced, apparently with the object of getting rid of the noxious element, offers the strongest contrast to the simple piocess of union, by which the coats of the vessels are repaired after injury. The in- ternal surface of veins reacts upon the applica- tion of extraneous matter as quickly and exten- sively as the serous membranes of the body, yet, in order that this effect may be produced, it is necessary that the morbid matter should be main- tained for a certain period in contact with the lining membrane, which cannot be the case as long as the circulation of the blood through the vessels is continued. When the blood coagulates in one of the larger veins on the snr face (.f the bod}', the affection is recognised by the cord-like induration of the vessel. There is at first no swelling, or tender- ness of the limb, and no constitutional irritation. The subsequent changes depend very much upon the nature of the coagulum which has formed. If this be composed of healthy blood, such as maybe produced by introducing a needle connected with the negative pole of an electric battery, or by passing a ligature round a vein, then, when the original cause of the obstruction is removed, the coagulum will slowly dissolve, and be carried in the course of the circulation. There will gene- rally be but little local, and no constitutional dis- turbance, and the circulation through the vein will become completely restored. In a few cases, the coagulum, instead of becoming dissolved, will re- main and obstruct the vessel to a greater or less extent. Other changes will then supervene. The coagulum will lose its colouring matter, and be- come tunnelled by numerous channels of blood, or it will remain in unorganised, perhaps concentric layers, moulded to the shape of the contracted vessel for an indefinite period. Sometimes it will become organised, but this will seldom happen so as permanently to obstruct the passage. If the coagulum be small, it may be attached to one side only of the vessel, to which it will become so inti- mately connected that, after a certain time, it will be impossible to distinguish the inner lining of the vessel from the inner surface of the newly- organised substance. If the coagulum be large, the outer layers will be firm, and sometimes organised. Coagula will often assume the form of dark blood-stained masses, adhering to the lining membrane of the veins for a considerable distance. The more fluid parts generally disappear, being probably carried in the course of the circulation, and the passage through the vein is re-established. The venous channel may then be lined on one side, or on every side, by the newly-formed mem- brane. In the earlier periods of these formations the layers of fibrin may be peeled off the inner coat of the vein, but subsequently they become in- separable from it. When an artery is tied, the base of the internal coagulum comes into contact with the outer coat and the lymph effused around the internal and middle coats divided by the ligature. During the subsequent stages, vessels extend from these parts into the clot, and organic union ensues ; but the circumstances are different in the case of a vein. It is difficult in this case to account for the way in which a coagulum may become united to adja- cent parts, and the mode in which the vessels are formed that pass from one to the other. It is pro- bable that some are generated in the coagulum itself, and are subsequently met by others, which shootout from the adjacent parts to inosculate witli them. This idea is in accordance with that which is known to take place in the original organisation ot parts in the embryo. During the process now de- scribed there may be little or no thickening ol tiie paiietes of the vein, and little constitutional dis- turbance. . -Mofpfl When the coagulum is composed ot vitiM«-" blood, it will become a source of "r"^""""' and its presence will give rise to the sy'Jipt"'"* of acute inflammation of the vein m whicn is contained. The parts of the venous svf' stagnation of vitiated blood is most liKeij cted with the part whic to take place, are those connectL- originally injured, for h.re any vitiated flmd ^t wiUi the griatest intensity ; and hero also, pro