being attached to the syringe, can bo inserted at once into the vein through the first so soon as the trocar is withdrawn. The inllanimation whicl; succeeds this operation is very slight, but no further interference should be had recourse to dur- ing its continuance. In the Thesis of M. Carron, and in a paper by M. Desgranges in the 4th vol of the A.'eni. de la Soc. tie Chirurgie de Paris, the different steps of the foregoing operation are minutely detailed. The success which has attended the above method of treatment is undoubted. The writer has seen it largely employed with signal advantage. Small abscesses in the cellular tissue are the only disagreeable consequences he has had occasion to ob- serve, but fatal results are on record, and show the necessity of care and caution. The fatal cases are, hovvevcr, extremely few in proportion to the enor- mous number of persons who have been treated The chief danger seems to arise from the vein being transfixed, and the solution being injected into the cellular tissue, when thrombus, abscess, or diffused suppuration, or even gangrene, may possi- bly be occasioned ; but nearly all observers are agreed that, with proper precaution, severe inflam- mation and erysipelas are very rare, that haemor- rhage never occurs, that suppurative phlebitis is almost unknown, and that the pain which is occasioned is very trifling. As to the permanence of the cure, many cases are on record which have been confirmed by year.". The persulphate of iron has also been used in the same way, with good results. It must, however, be confessed that no mode of curative treatment hitherto devised, numerous as they have been, is always successful, nor devoid of danger. However slightly the vein is interfered with in some of these operations, the results have been, at times, most lamentable. Veins, especially tliose affected with varix, are peculiarly subject to inflammation; and when that condition is once set up in them, it is well known how great is the danger. Many of the methods of treatment suc- ceed marvellously for a time, and seem to fulfil every end, and then, without any apparent dif- ference, either in the patient or in the mode of operation, a succession of unfortunate results occur. Berard, in his monograph on the use of the Vienna Paste, saj's he had only one fatal case of phlebitis in the first 500 cases he treated, and yet shortly afterwards he had to lament many. So it has hap- pened in the experience of many. Velpeau had ISO successful cases with the pin before any unfavour- able occurrence shook his faith in its infallibilitj'. What has been successful, too, in the hands of one, fails in the practice of another. Thus Malgaigne tells that Fricke, in asking Velpeau to try his mode of treatment with the seton, stated that it had been successful in thirty cases in which he had used it, yet violent inflammation was set up in the two first instances in which Velpeau employed it; and thus it is that a much wider induction than can be supplied by the experience of any one man is required to decide such questions. It must also be remembered, when judging of the various methods of curative treatment, that it by no means follows that because a coagulum has been formed in a vein, that therefore its cijutinued obliteration has been secured. Clots of very great e.\tent have become absorbed or dissolved, as was shown in the case of Ilasse, related by himself, iii VEINS, DISEASI S OF. AH hich a coBgulum' filling the whole system of the saphena up to its insertion into the crural vein " became absorbed in five weeks from the subsidence of the inflammation which caused it. Besides this source of uncertainty in the perma- nence of the cure, it has been shown by many writers that when the main vessel has been ob- literated the disease becomes established in other vessels running parallel to it, and thus it would appear that the constant support of the leg by an elastic stocking is a wise precaution even after the closure of the vessels chiefly implicated. Finally, in reviewing the different methods of treatment to obtain a radical cure, it will be evident that there are three which are much supe- rior to the rest—viz., that by caustic, pins, and injection. The disagreeable results which may follow any operation are chiefly—(l)!pain; (2) severe inflammation—it may be, ending in suppura- tion ; (3) erysipelas, siiperficial or deep ; (4) ex- tensive cicatrices on the surface; and (5) haemor- rhage. When caustic is employed, we have seen, that all these accidents may and do frequently occur, while the first and fourth are necessarily caused, and the fifth is not rare. When pins are used again, 2, 3, 4, and 5 may arise, and are not very uncommon results ; while, when injection is employed, though 2 and 3 may occur they have appeared very rarely, and 1, 4, and 5 have never been seen. When it is considered also that the treatment by injection cannot implicate either lymphatics or nerves, that it is very simple, that it produces a very sure and extensive coagulum within the vessel, and that, consequently, the final results are more satisf ictory than those following any of the other methods of treatment, it must be conceded that of all the plans of treatment hitherto devised, that by injection holds out the greatest advantages.] George II. B. Macleod, VEINS, DISEASES OF.—[The peculiar in- terest which attaches itself to disease of the veins depends in a very great degree upon the connection which they naturally have with every part of the vascular system. So long as this communication exists, the results of any disease in a vein may be communicated to the general system. The condi- tions under which this may occur, and the results produced, have already been fully considered in the article Vymmix. We have, therefore, now only to treat of the local symptoms and treatment of the diseases of the veins themselves. If a vein be isolated from the general circulation, as it may be either artificially or naturally, it may be injured in any way without any probable serious consequences. The inflammation which ensues being strictly local is not likely to be followed by more serious symptoms than the inflammation of any other structure. From whatever cause phlebitis may arise, whether from the nature of the morbid conten g, from mechanical injury, or from the extension of inflanmiation from surrounding parts, the evidence of that inflammation is in the cellular coat of tlie vein, and, to a less degree, in the circular fibrous coat. No one has yet succeeded in producing un- equivocal marks of inflammation of the lining membrane only of a vein. In acule phlebitis the cellular coat is preter- naturally vascular, prcsentiug a red appearance of