Post mortem appearances.—Tlie mucous n.eni- braiie of the eyes, nose, and mouth was red or violet, and covered by a very abundant thick 1UUCU3. The lungs were of a dark colour, wiiii some black patches, but still crepitant. The left ventricle of the heart presented several brown stains, resembling ecchymoses, which penetrated into its tissue. Its internal surface was of the colour of lees of wine, offering a singu'ar contrast to that of the right side, which contained a hard fibrinous concretion, two drachms and a half in weight, of a light yellow colour, and resembling grease in appearance. This was of the same con- sistence throughout, and everywhere free, with the exception of a portion of the size of a finger nail, which adhered to the inner surface of the ven- tricle. No appearance of the injected fluid could be recognised in this clot. It was continued, of the same colour and consistence, into the pul- monary arterj-, and into the vena cava, the vena azygos, the axillarj-, and even the right jugular vein. The intestinal mucous membrane, especially of the rectum, the duodenum, and a small portion of the small intestines, was of a violet-red colour. It was inflamed in longitudinal stripes, and in patches, which gave a mottled appearance, even to the outer surface of the intestines before they were opened. This discolouration was not accom- panied by any thickening of the tissues, nor by ulceration, and appeared rather the result of ecchj'- niosis or haemorrhage. The lining membrane of the rectum was principally aifected, and its mucous glands were swollen and very prominent. This intestine contained matters resembling those evacuated before death. The other intestines con- tained a very thick greyish-white mucus. , The mesenteric glands were enlarged. The gall- bladder contained black, thick, ropy bile, resem- bling melted tar. E.rperiment.—"An ounce of putrid water, in which some beef had been macerated, was injected into the crural artery of a middling-sized dog. Tlie artery having been tied, the pulse ceased below the tendo Achillis. A considei'able degree of fever and restlessness followed the operation. This con- tinued the whole day and the following night, without any vomiting or evacuations which so com- monly followed similar operations upon the veins. The next day the limb was very painful, but not swollen. There was thirst, with the ordinary se- cretion of faeces and urine. On the third day the animal was evidently better; the appetite had become almost natural, and he could walk more easily, although the limb still appeared very pain- ful. In the night there were some soft, almost liquid evacuations. The fourth day the aninuil was evidently recovering, when an ounce and a half of very fetid and very concentrated fluid (de- rived from the maceration of beef) was injected into the crural artery of the opposite limb. The animal immediately evinced pain, accompanied by very violent and remarkable palpitation of the heart. It walked lame, keeping the leg raised, and soon became feverish and uneasy. The symp- toms were exactly the same as after the first ex- periment. The leg became gradually more and more painful, and extremely sensitive, but not infiltrated with scrum. During the night there was much expression of pain, and the animal was in continued motion. Death occurred nineteen PY/EMIA. m hours after the second injection. The limb luid become swollen only within five or six hours pre- vious to death. Post-mortem appearances: The limb presented a very large quantity of bloody fiuid infiltrated jn all the tissues. The superficial muscles were black, and presented more or less the appearances of gangrene. The deep muscles were entirely disorganised, and converted into a putrid pulp, resembling masses of the red lees of wine, extremely fetid, and disengaging a quantity of gas. The limb first injected was still swollen, and presented, in the interior of the adductor muscles, two or three cavities filled with a putrid bloody serum. In the chest, the lungs were healthy, as were also the right cavities of the heart, but the left cavities presented several reddish-black spots, scattered over their external surface. In the left auricle was a firm, yellowish-white coaguhim, adhering to an inflamed spot on its inner surface. The intestinal canal was filled with a brownish- red fluid, resembling altered blood, which in the stomach and duodeuum was of the colour of soot. The mucous membrane of these organs, as well as of the jejunum and rectum, were gorged with blood of the colour of the lees of red wine, but without any inflammatory thickening of their coats." Another experiment performed bj' Gaspard suffi- cientl}"- illustrates the fact that the blood is really poisoned by the introduction of putrid matters. He extracted some blood from the jugular vein of a dog, which had died from the effects of a putrid injection. Although this fluid was defibrinated and filtered, and was without any sign of putridity, its introduction into the jugular vein of a healthy vigorous dog gave rise to symptoms of blood-poison- ing; the animal was attacked with vomiting and purging, but eventually recovered. An important and very suggestive monograph, before alluded to, has recently been published by Dr. G. Polli, of Milan. Under the head of Morbific Fermentations of the Blood, he describes the changes produced by the introduction of putrescible substances into the cir- culation. From his experiments upon animals he has arrived at the following :— 1. That the injection of a certain quantitj' of pus into the circulation produces pyaemia, and such diseases as are characterised by multiple abscesses. 2. That the injection of putrid matter produces septicajmia, or those diseases recognised by the name of putrid infections, and characterised by a typhoid gastro-enteritis. 3. That the ijijection of matter obtained from contagious diseases—glanders, for instance—will reproduce the same affections. Dr. Polli gives many experiments illustrating the effects of the injection of putrescent materials into the veins of dogs. He relates particularly the effects of the injection of corrupted human pus, in quantities varying from two to four grammes : It appears that the animal recovers after injection of the smaller quantit}', but generally dies between the fifth and seventh days after the operation fiir injeition of the larger (four grammes). The symp- toms correspond with those which have "been narrated. At the post-mortem examination, the ga.-tro-enteric nuicous membrane was fi)und in a state of inllamnuition, of dark red colour, and dotted with piiriforra exudation, and the lungs K I\ 2