NYCTALOPIA. 364 affection, in which the patient either cannot see at all, or sees but very feebly, objects wliicli are in the open day-light, or situations where there is a strong light : but discerns them very well when they are in a darkish place, or at sunset, or in the night-time, if not immoderately dark. (See Lassus, Pathologie Chir. t. ii. pp. 639, 540.) According to Dr. Hillary, there are persons in Siam, in the East Indies, and also in Africa, who are all of this cat-eyed species, or subject to the disease of being blind in the day-time, and seeing well by night. {Med. Univ. Hid. vol. vii.) The same author notices the general rarity of the dis- order, and mentions his having met with but two examples of it. Dr. Pye mentions an intermittent or periodical nyctalopia, which begins regularly in the morning, and goes off in the evening, the patient continuing blind, whether he keeps himself in a dark or a light place. The cause of,these instances, which, he observes, ai'e very uncommon, is generally seated in the prima; vise, and requires emetics, resolvents, purgatives, and bark. (See Lassus, Fathologie, t. ii. pp. 540—542. And RicUer Anfangsgr. del- Wzmdarzn. b. ii. p. 481.) Ramazzini fre- quently observed amongst the country people in Italy, and especially boys about ten years of age, in March, a great weakness of sight. Through the whole day, they saw little or nothing, but when night came on, they saw distinctly. The disorder ceased of itself by the middle of April. The pupils were noticed to be much enlarged. (Z>e Mori. Ariificum, cap. xxxviii. Lond.'_1718.) As Dr. Mackenzie has remarked, scrofulous intolerance of light, the photophobia of the albino, or that of a person long shut up in the dark, and suddenly brought out into the glare of the day, must not be confounded with this species of pe- riodical amaurosis. Day-blindness is mentioned as a symptom both of mydriasis and myosis. In the former disease, the pupil admits too much light to enable the patient to see till after sunset. In the latter, the contraction of the pupil is supposed to relax in the obscurity of the night, and thus vision to be improved. On the same principle, the patient, who has an incipient cataract, sees little during the brightness of the day, but finds his sight in part restored by the dilatation of the pupil in the evening. (See Mackenxie on Dis, of the Hi/e, p. 885. ed. 2.) An instance, supposed to be syphilitic, and cured by mercury, is related by Mr. Isbell. (See Ed{7ib. Med. and Stirg. Journ. vol. ix.p. 260. 8vo. 1813.) In an example, following scrofulous ophthalmia, and where blisters, tonics, opiates, belladonna, &c. had failed in diminishing the sensibility of the retina, M. Vassal constructed two cones of pasteboard, two inches and a half in length, and painted black internally. He fitted to one ex- tremity of each cone a blue glass, and applied the other extremity, on each eyelid, so that the bor- ders of the cone penetrated into the entrance of the orbit. A cui'tain of black taffeta applied to this extremity prevented the rays of light from reaching the eye otherwise than through the cone. From the third day of the use of this ap- paratus, the child could distinguish objects at the distance of three or four feet. Every week, the length of the cones was lessened, and, in three months, the child, with the protection of blue spectacles, could bear the light ; and these she continued the use of for a year. (See'Archives de Med. Fevi: 1832.) In 1787, Baron Larrey met with a case of day-blindness in an old man, one of the galley- slaves at Brest, who had been shut up incessantly for thirty-three years in a subterranean dungeon. His long residence in darkness had had such an effect on the organs of vision, that he could only see in the dark, and was completely blind in the daytime. (See Mem. de Chir. Mil. t. i. p. 17.) Nyctalopia may sometimes depend on a pecu- liarity in the organisation of the eye ; by reason of which, the quantity of light, which only suf- fices for vision in an eye of natural formation, proves too abundant for a nyctalops, and abso- lutely prevents him from seeing at all. We know that, in the eye, there is a black substance, named the pigmentum nigrum; one supposed use of which is to absorb the redundant rays of light, which enter the pupil. A deficiency of it may explain some forms of nyctalopia. (See Vision.) CEDEMA. (from oi'Se'w, to swell.) A swelling, arising from the effusion of a serous fluid in the cellular tissue ; the affection, when more exten- sive, and accompanied with a general dropsical tendency, receiving the name of anasarca. An oedematous part is usually cold, and of a pale colour ; and, as it is little, or not at all elastic, it pits, as surgeons express themselves, or, in other words, it retains, for some time, the impression of the finger, after being handled or pressed. (Ede- matous and anasarcous swellings are often con- nected with constitutional causes, or visceral dis- eases, and especially with circumstances causing obstruction to the free passage of blood through the heart. The fluid is disposed to gravitate to the lowest situations, and it is enabled to do so by reason of the free communications in the cells of the cellular tissue. In many cases, however, they seem to be entirely local affections, arising from such causes as only act upon the parts in which the disease is situated. Thus we ob- serve, that after violent sprains of the wrist, or ankle-joint, the hands and feet often become oedematous : and limbs are frequently affected with oedema, in consequence of the return of blood through the veins being obstructed by the pressure of tumors on them, or that of splints, bandages, &c. Pregnant women are known to be particularly subject to oedema of the legs, owing to the pressure of the gravid uterus on the iliac veins. Persons who have been confined in bed, with fractured thighs, or legs, generally have more or less oedema in their feet and ankles, on first getting up again ; and the affection in these cases is probably dependent on loss of tone in the vessels of the limb. In the treatment of oedema, great attention must always be paid to tiie nature of the cause, in order to determine whether the disease originates from a mere local, or a general constitutional affection. When it depends on the pressure of a tumor on the veins, as we often see happen in cases of aneurisms, the effect cannot be got rid of till the cause is removed ; and the aneurismal swelling must be lessened, before the redematous one can admit of the same beneficial change. When oedema is the effect of vascular weakness in a limb, in consequence of spranis, contusions, &c., the best means of relief is, to support the parts affected witli a laced slocking, or a flaiiiio