284 more readily to be placed in contact; and that the action of the pectoral muscle tends to separate the edges of the wound when it is perpendicular. On the other liand, it is allowed that the more the wound inclines downwards, the more favourable it is for the escape of the discharge, if suppuration occur. (See (Euvres de Desault, t. ii. p. 312.) [The incision should be made, according to Mr. Birkett, in the direction of a line radiating from the nipple as from a centre, for, by so doing, a transverse division of several ducts may be avoided. {Diseases of the Breast, p. 239.) When circumstances offer the choice, "as a general rule, the long axis of the wound should incline as much as possible downwards and outwards, when the patient is in a recumbent position." (^Birkett, lb., p. 239.) M. Velpeau advocates a curved or semilunar incision, taking care to direct the convexity of the incision towards the most dependent part. The sxngeon is thus enabled without difficulty to expose the largest as well as the smallest tumors, and there is left a wound which readily gives exit to the secretions, the flap of which falls in some measure of itself over the solution of continuity, and the edges of which are easily kept in contact, so that the cicatrix almost always becomes reduced to a central line. {Op. cit. p. 518.)] At all events, when the disease is of a scirrhous or malignant nature, the skin covering'' the tumor should be in part removed. As stated above, all that portion which is discoloured, puckered, tuber- culated, or otherwise altered, should be taken away. Some must also be removed, in order to prevent re- dundance, in all cases in which the tumor is large. In scirrhus, and cancer of the mammary gland itself, the nipple is a dangerous part to be left behind ; but if the tumor be not of that gland, and away from the nipple, the excision of this part would not be called for. If a considerable portion of the mamma is affected, it is better to excise the whole gland than to preserve a few of its lobes. For the purpose of removing the necessary portion of skin, the surgeon must obviously pursue a different mode from that above described ; and, instead of one straight incision, he is to make two semicir- cular cuts, one immediately after the other, and which are to meet at their extremities. The size of these incisions must be determined by that of the disease to be removed, and by the quantity of skin which it is deemed prudent to take away ; for the part, which is included in the two semicircular cuts, is that which is not to be separated from the upper surface of the swelling, but taken away with it. The shape of the two cuts together may ap- proach that either of a circle or an ellipse, as the figure of the tumor itself may indicate to be most convenient. The direction of the incision is to be regulated by the same consideration. In the above ways, the first division of the integu- ments is to be made in removing tumors of every description covered with skin. The same princi- ples and practice should prevail in fill these operations ; and whether the swelling be the mamma, or any other diseased mass, whether situate on the chest, the back, the head, or ex- tremities, similar considerations should alwa}'s guide the operator's hand. The incision, or incisions, in the skin having been made, the next object is to detach every side of the tumor from its connexions, and the separa- MAMMA, DISEASES OP. tion of its base will then be the last and only thing remaining to be done. In dissecting out a diseased breast, the best plan, after having detached it from its lateral connexions, is to begin separating its base at the side towards the axilla, and then carry the dissection downwards and forwards, till the swelling has been perfectly detached from all its subjacent connexions. When the tumor is of a malignant character, the operator must not dis- sect close to the swelling, but make his iucisions on each side, at a prudent distajice from it, so as to be sure to remove, with the diseased mass, every particle of morbid structure in its vicinity. But when the tumor is onlj' a mere fatty or other mass, perfectly free from malignanc)', the cellular bands and vessels foiming its connexions maj' be divided close to its circumference. It is astonishing with what ease fatty tumors are removed, after the necessary division has been made of the skin ; they may almost be turned out with the fingers, without any cutting at all. When they have been inflamed, however, they are considerably more adherent t8 the surrounding parts. Thus the first stage of the operation of removing a tumor is the division of the skin ; the second, the separation of the swelling from the surrounding parts on every side ; the third and last, the division of the parts to which its under-surface or base is attached. The latter object should be accomplished by cutting regularly from below upwards, from above downwards, or from one angle to the other, as may seem most convenient and most safe, till every part is divided. Having taken out the tumor, the operator is immediately to tie such large vessels as may be pouring out blood ; indeed, when the removal of the swelling will necessarily occupy more than three or four minutes, it is sometimes better to tie the largest arteries as soon as they are divided, and then proceed with the dissection. This was De- sault's plan, and it is often deserving of imitation, not only because many subjects cannot afford to lose much blood, but also because the profuse effusion of this fluid keeps the operator from seeing what parts he is dividing. For the same reasons Mr. Morgan's plan of compressing the subclavian artery from above the clavicle, during the operation, so as to prevent hemorrhage, is entitled to praise, especially when the tumor is large, the patient already debilitated, and the operation likely to be tedious. However, if the tumor will admit of being promptly taken out, or if only two or three considerable vessels bleed, an assistant may put his fingers over their mouths until the operation is finished : in this way the completion of the dissec- tion is not at all retarded. The other plan, of tying the vessels as the operation is proceeding, is chiefly applicable in cases in which the vessels are large, or the tumor is of considerable size. The largest arteries being tied, the surgeon should not be immediately solicitous about tying every bleeding point which may be observed. Instead of this, let him employ a little while in examining every part of the surface of the wound, in order to ascertain that no portion of the swell- ins no hardened lump or diseased fibres, rcma.n behind. Even if any part of the surface of the pectoral muscle should present a morbid feel or appearance, it must, on every account be cut away Also, if any of the axillary glands should be