JOINTS. DISEASES OF, some pai-ts to be a superadded structure, for the purpose of producing ulceration of the contiguous cartilage." It appears, therefore, to Mr. Key that the pro- cess by which the ulceration of cartilage is in this case effected, is tlirougli the medium of the newly- organised synovial membrane, the cartilage itself being indisposed to ulceration by the low degree of its organisation. It is acted upon by the newly- organised surface of the membrane, wiiich is ren- dered highly vascular, and by means of its villous processes forms a groove in the edge of the carti- lage, thus commencing the work of destruction. The cartilage at the edge is sometimes entirely de- stro3'ed, so as to lay bare the bone, in which case vascular granulations also arise from the surface of the exposed bone, and assist the membrane in the work of absorption. Tliis, however, is more usually observed in the most acute form of inflam- mation. In the more chronic form, the vascular fringe of synovial membrane contracts adhesion to the surface of the cartilage in which ulceration is going on, and gives rise to the formation of a new membrane, which gradually spreads over the sur- face of the cartilage. The second mode referred to by Mr. Key, in ■which nature seems to hira to effect the ulceration of cartilage without the agency of its own vessels, may be seen in the rapid process of disorganisa- tion that follows a wound of the synovial mem- brane. Here the latter undergoes a change which enables it to perform its new function. The sur- face becomes highly vascular, and in most parts covered with a new deposit of adhesive matter, ■which adheres firmly to the avnovial membrane. The new surface is irregular, wanting the polish of the original membrane, and appears in many parts villous, or furnished with vascular fringed projections. " In a joint (says Mr. Key) thus far advanced in disease, the only mode of arresting the disease, or of repairing the mischief occasioned by inflammation, consists in the production of an- kylosis. To this end the removal of the cartilage is an essential step; and it would appear that the office of removing it devolves on the inflamed sy- novial membrane.'' [The best example to illustrate the destruction of cartilage, as the result of synovial disease, is a wounded joint before disorganisation has ensued. In such a case, it has been found that the diseased action spreads from the synovial membrane, where It is most intense, downwards into the substance of the cartilage, which, superficially diseased, ap- pears more healthy the deeper the examination of it is carried. Immediately under the swollen, ge- latinous-looking, briglitly-injected synovial mem- brane, the cartilage will be found to be reddened, roughened, and softened. On examining a thin slice of this, it will be found to be composed of granular matter and nuclei of cells whose walls have dis.appeared. At a little greater depth than this. It will present an opaque matiix with cells, some perfect, others imperfect or disintegrating- and below this level we come to healthy white car- tilage with clear matrix, and well-formed cells, the disorganisation of the cartilage will eventually go on to its complete removal, and to the exposure of bare and roughened bone. It is in this way that destruction of joints, as the result of punctured wounds, of pysemia, or of puerperal inflammation, takes place, {Erichsen, op, ext.) 125 The appearances described by Mr. Key are of common occurrence. Mr. Goodsir considers that Mr. Key is in error in attributing the disintegra- tion of the cartilage to the disease set up in the synovial membrane; for he states that a fibrous tissue forms in a diseased joint as the result of the disintegration of the cartilage, and that this, which is connected either with the synovial or osseous surfaces, speedily becomes vascular. So far, there- fore, from being the organ by which the cartilage is removed, it is the result of prior disease in thia structure. At the same time, Mr. Erichsen thinks that it cannot be doubted that a villous injected state of the synovial membrane will modify the nutrition of the subjacent cartilage in such a" way that disinteiiration, erosion, and apparent ulcera- tion of it will ensue. 2. Disease of cartilage, primarily depending on morbid action in the subjacent bone.—Tiiis Mr. Erichsen believes to be one of the most frequent modes of disorganisation of joints in strumous sub- jects, and most certainly leads to those rapidly de- structive affections of joints in which amputation or excision is required. In these cases, either as the result of violence, or from constitutional causes, the articular ends of a bone, or the whole of a bone if it be one of the tarsal, become congested, in- flamed, carious, or necrosed, sometimes infiltrated with tubercle. In consequence of this disorgani- sation of the osseous tissues, the incrusting carti- lage becomes detached, its under or attached surface softened, and at last perforation takes place. Thia process of disintegration, and at last perforation and erosion of the cartilage, takes place in a direction from below upw.irds. So soon as perforation oc- curs, the whole of the interior of the joint becomes acutely inflamed, and suppuration is set up in it, the ligaments loosen, and complete disorganisation ensues. On examining the diseased patch of car- tilage in cases of this kind, it will be found to cor- respond to the carious or tuberculous bone, from which it is separated by some bloody fluid; it will also be seen that the under edges of the erosion or perforation in the cartilage are separated to some extent from the subjacent bone, from which they readily peel off, and that they are bevilled off towards the aperture. (Erichsen, op. cit.) " When the primary attack is in osteitis, the cartilage undergoes the process both of degeneration and inflammation. In anicuL.r diseases thus com- mencing (says Mr. Barwell) it is to be remembered, that generally only one of the bones firming the joint is primarily affected; moreover, it is seldom so extensively diseased that the whole surface whereon the cartilage rests, undergoes morbitl action at the same time. Now, the first effect of an osteitis upon the cartilage is, in most instances, a cessation of its supply of nutriment, hence '\ rapid degeneration and detachment, with its arti- cular lamella, from the inflamed portion of the bone. Around the spots where such degeneration takes place, the cartilage will not thus be killed as it were, by starvation, but will become inflamed and ulcerated. The cartilages covering tlie bone which still remains normal, will, when the other joint textures become inflamed, participate in the inflammation, just as they do in synovitis. Thus in articular diseases, commencing in one of the bones, there are two sorts of action going on in the cartilages—inflammation and degeneration. The latter occurs over that portion of the bone whose