852 URINARY CALCULI. allowed to stand for one or two days, small reddish crj'stalline particles of lithic acid will be gradually deposited on the inner surface of the vessel. " It is on these two general facts that our principles of chemical treatment ultimately rest. Whenever the lithic secretion predominates, the alkalies are the appropriate remedies ; and the acids, particularly the muriatic, are the agents to be resorted to when the calcareous or magnesian salts prevail in the deposit." (Pp. 147-148.) Alkalies taken into the stomach reach the uri- nary passages tiirough the medium of the circula- tion; and it is also suspected that the acids hke- wise' do so, though this circumstance is still a question. Unfortunately the quantity of either alkalies or acids, which thus mixes with the urine, is so small that no impression is made upon calculi of magnitude. The researches of Dr. Marcet, Dr. Prout, and others have clearly proved, how- ever, that such medicines are often capable of checking a tendency to the formation of stone, and sometimes of bringing on a calculous deposit de- pending upon the altered state of the system. In- deed, Dr. Marcet expresses his decided opinion that, even supposing not an atom of alkali or acid ever reached the bladder, still it would not be un reasonable to expect that these remedies may re spectively produce the desired changes during the first stages of assimilation; in one case, by neutra- lising any morbid excess of acid in the primee vi»- and,°in the other, by checking a tendency to alka lescence, or otherwise disturbing those affinities ■which, in the subsequent processes of assimilation and secretion, give rise to calculous affections. (P. 153.) , ^ . , . The best way of taking alkalies is by drinking soda-water as a common beverage. It was as- serted, however, by the late Sir G. Blane, that when the alkalies were combined with citric acid, as in the ordinary saline draught, they also had the effect of depriving the urine of its acid properties. [It is now well known that alkalies, when combined with vegetable acids, as the citric or tartaric, reach the urine in the form of carbonates, and are therefore as efficacious for the purpose re- quired as the carbonates themselves. There is no more pleasant or convenient way of administering them than in an effervescing draught of citrate or tartrate of potash or soda.] But it may be inquired if no known internal medicine will dissolve a stone already formed, what is the good of merely altering the diathesis^ and checking the increase of the calculus, as otlier measures must still be necessary ? The reasons for persevering in "the aim of correcting any particular state of the system, and the urinary secretion on which state the increase of calculus depends, are very important ; for it is found tiiat, though medi- cincs may be quite incapable of dissolving a cal- culus, they relieve a greiit deal of the distress and suffering, apparently the effect of the diathesis itseli; as will be presently noticed; and sometimes afford such ease, that tlie op ration may be post- poned until the health is improved, or in a very old subject even be dispensed with altogetlier. The aim is also of high importance, with the view of prevent- ing relapses. As the lithic acid diathesis seems to he concerned in the production of about two-thirJs of the whole number of the urinary calculi, the correction of it has been a chief aim amongst modern practitioners For this purpose, M. Magendie, whose experiments tend to prove that this diathesis may be lessened and removed by abstinence from animal food, and other nutriments abounding in azote, founds hig practice very much upon this alleged fact. His in- dications, however, are four in number, viz.: 1. To lessen the quantity of uric acid produced by the kidneys. 2. To augment the secretion of urine, a maxim which leads him to consider cutaneous per- spiration injurious; a statement which I think must be rejected, considering that much of the precipitating acid is thrown off by the skin in per- spiration, and consequently ensuring a due per- formance of the cutauoeus functions must in these cases be beneficial. (See Medical Truns. of the College of Physicians, vol. vi.) 3. To prevent the lithic acid from assuming a solid form, by satu- rating it. 4. When gravel and calculi are formed, to promote their discharge and attempt their dis- solution. (Recherches, ^c. sur la Gravclle, p. 42.) For correcting the lithic acid diathesis, Dr. Prout particularly enjoins the avoidance of errors in diet, exercise, &c. The error of quantity of food he deems worse than the error of qualit}'. Patients, he says, should abstain altogether from things which manifestly disagree with them, and which must be unwholesome to all, such as heavy unfermented bread, hard-boiled and fat puddings, salted and dried meats, acescent fruits, and (if the digestive organs be debilitated) soups of every kind. In general also wines, and particularly those of an acescent quality, should be avoided. The wearing of flannel, the preserving a regular state of the bowels, and the occasional use of alterative medicines, are likewise commended. {Prout on Gravel, ^c- P- 1 35 ) According to the same author, the treatment of calculous affections is either of a local or general description. The local treatment is nearly the same in all the species; the general treatment will depend upon the nature of the calculous diathesis. What Dr. Prout calls the local treatment con- sists chiefly in prescribing hyoscyamus and opium, either alone or combined witii uva ursi. Ihe hyoscyamus, he says, is generally preferable in the lithic acid diathesis, and opium in the phosphatic He also recommends the use of opium in the form of injection and embrocation, and especially m that of a suppository. The warm bath, fomenta- tions, and sitting over hoc water, are spoken ot as other means of relief. ..' According to the observations of the same well- informed writer, the distressing symptoms, pro- duced by lithic acid calculi, have a very constant relation to the severity of the diathesis present; a circumstance which, he says, is also move less true with respect to all the other kinds of cal- culi : that is to say, in proportion as the ur.ne unnatural, and loaded with gravel ""d amorpho |S sediments, in the same proportion are the pat ents sufferings.' Hence, our first restore the urine to its natural state. H e hrst means to be recommended, lu onimary casos usually a dose of calomel and ""''"^''''^ the Plummer'B pill, or some other alterat e pur gative, taken at niglit, to be followed "P "^^^^ morning bv an alkaline d.uret.c purgat. e com posed, for example, of Rochelle ^^l'^ » " nesia, or carbonate of soda; during tie d..J,-_ strong infusion of uva "rsi, combmed with h>os cvaiuus and the liquor potiissa;, may be taKen