1006 VISION The amaurosis sometimes appears while the patient is recovering from the loss of bloo(3. In some cases the loss of blood was so slight that liie amaurosis could not be attributed to it. 2. Through anaemia, from local causes. Gra- dual compression of the artery of the retina is followed, at first, by impairment of the functions of the retina in the region of the yellow spot ; sudden obstruction, by sudden amaurosis. The less arterial blood enters the retina, the more vision is impaired. ((/) Produced by tobacco, lead, quinine, or alcohol. These and other substances often pro- duce spasm, or paresis, or paralysis of the accom- modation as well. We should guard ourselves against mistaking the disturbances of vision due to these later conditions for amblyopia or amaurosis. By tobacco.—The patients generally are of middle age, thin, pale ; nirely complain of pain, and often state that the impairment of vision pro- gressed slowly. Vision may, however, within si.x months, be reduced to perception of light. In the majorit}', if the disease is progressing, it reaches this degree in from six to eighteen months. It always affects both eyes, though it varies in degree ; one eye may become blind without the patient being aware of it, Night blindness and decrease of the acuteness of vision for distance are often its earliest objective symptoms. Photopsia frequently appears, and sometimes after all vision is lost. With the ophthalmoscope we observe anaemia, and finally atrophy of the optic disc and retina. The greater the diminution of the number of arteries in the retina, the greater the impairment of vision. Post-mortem examinations have shown traces of basilar meningitis, affecting, besides the optic nerve, also the third and other facial nerve.'^. By lead.—Impairment of vision has followed medicinal application of lead in two cases, and working at lead in several. In the former, pro- tracted headache was followed by sudden loss of vision in the right, and twenty-four hours later in the left eye, with paralysis of the ciliary muscle and iris, and with some increase of temperature. In a similar case vision returned after the use of mer- cury (to salivation) followed by that of iodide of potassium. In one of the latter cases, on post- mortem examination, except extreme anasmin, no morbid changes were discovered. By quinine.— Deafness or noises in the ears are Ufcual complications. With the ophthalmoscope we find a tortuous condition or at least an over- fulness of the veins of the retina, in the otherwise healthy eye. Much benefit has been derived from repeated bleeding. By alcohol.—In a case in which vision was re- duced to perception of light during prolonged abuse of alcohol, the optic disc appeared heiilthy ; vision after discontinuing drinking and by applying leeches to the temples rapidly returned, so as to allow the patient to follow his employment. AinUyojiia through non-use, after prolonged exclusion, of one eye.—This form of amblyopia reaches a high degree only if it be congenital, or of very long standing. It may remain undis covered for years. The functions of the retin.i of one eye interfering with those of the fellow eye, may finally lead to "suppression" of di- rect vision. The development of higher de- grees of amblyopia sometimes seems to be pre- vented through the pupil becoming closed or cataract developed. Paralysis or paresis of the iris, of the accommodation, opacities of the cornea and especially strabismus of one eye, are usual complications. Signs that the functions of the retina are nowhere interrupted are the integrity of the field of vision, and the proportionate de- crease of the sensibility of the retina from the periphery towards the centre. HvpEHMETKOPiA. (Ilyperprc sbyopia. Hyperopia = U.)—The term hypermetropia is given to an anomaly of refraction which is connected with a very frequent congenital alteration of the shape of the eyeball. The eyeball not only is too small, but the curvature of its tunics is abnormal and the retina stands too close to the crystalline lens. This gives rise to peculiar distsrbances of vision. Alteration of the elasticity and of the curvature of the light-refracting surfaces with a decrease of their refracting power constitute one of the senile changes of the human eye and give rise to a species of hypermetropia. An eye without a crystalline lens, having only the cornea left to refract the light, is also termed hypermetropic, though the position and curvature of the retina be normal. We shall here treat only of the hj-permetropia which is the result of congenital anoma!)'- of shaps of the eyeball. Hypermetropia occurs as a rule in both eyes, and frequently varies in degree in each. It is con- genital and often hereditary. Extreme hypermetropia is readily recognised by comparing the curvature of the sclerotic, e.g. from the outer margin of the cornea towards the nearest part of the optic nerve of the healthy eye, with that of the hypermetropic eye. In the latter, the sclerotic round the cornea is too slightly curved. Beyond the greatest transverse diameter of the eye, which appears to lie too near the cornea, it curves too abruptly towards the optic nerve. This acute curvature becomes more cor.spicuous by di- recting the patient to look towards the nose, so as to expose the outer aspect of the sclerotic. The eyeball appears flattened from before backwards, and its anterior and posterior poles are supposed to stand too near each other. The palpebral aper- ture in extreme cases appears much too large for the eyeball, and a recess of conjunctiva is observed near the outer canthus. For the method how to recognise with the ophthalmoscope the existence, and in a great mea- sure, the degree of hypermetropia, see Ophthal- moscope. Examinalion ivith the (i}>h!halmoscope. Exainitiu- tion of the erect image, ^ c.—Many of the pecu- liarities of the hypermetropic eye, observed with the ophthalmoscope, can be explained by the anomaly of shape of the eyeball. Such as—the facility with which we obtain a distinct view of the erect image of the optic disc and of the retinal vessels at a great uistance from the eye, and the apparent prominence into the vitreous chamber of the retina next the optic disc, with a correspond- ing alteration of tlie course of its blood-vessels. Peculiarities which are attributed to abnormal development, are : — I. A crescentic well defined white figure skirt- ing the lower margin of the optic disc of one "t of both eyes. This figure is readily distinguislicu