2fi2 LITHOTOMY appropriate cases, of the great facilities which it affords, and of its freedom from danger, without the distressing result of a permanent and incurable incontinence of urine. The experience of the last ten years has abundantly shown that almost every case of vesico-vaginal tistula, even when attended with great loss of substance, may be firmly and permanently closed by the improved plastic pro- cedures now in use. We may therefore very fairly feel confidence in our ability to close the clean longitudinal incision made for the extraction of a stone, which is attended with no loss of sub- stance, and with no cicatricial contraction or induration. Even if the whole length of the wound should not immediately unite, its closure may be effected with certainty by a subsequent operation. Without waiting, therefore, the chance of spontaneous closure, sutures should be inserted and the edges of the wound brought into accurate contact immediately after the extraction of the stone. The most approved methods of doing this will be described in detail in the article on vesico- vaginal fistula. M. Coste, many years ago, appears to have been the first to suggest the immediate application of sutures after this operation, but was deterred from attempting it by the then almost invariably unfavourable termination of operations for vesico- vaginal fistula. The merit of first carrying into effect the idea of immediate closure of the wound after vaginal lithotomy belongs to Dr. Marion Sims, who operated in this manner, in 1850, on a negress set. ten years, in Montgomerj-, Alabama. The incision made was in the median line, and about one and a quarter inches long. The stone, a flat oval, an inch long, three-quarters of an inch wide, and nearly as thick, was easily removed, and the incision was immediately closed by four or five' interrupted silver sutures. A small fistulous opening remained near the neck of the bladder, but was closed by a subsequent operation. The writer is informed by Dr. Sims that the operation has been successfully practised by Dr. Emmet and himself five or six times at the Woman's Hospital, in New York, and also Dr. Bennett, of Connecticut, and others by advocate for in this America, Dr. Sims is a strong mode of operation. M. Vallet, of Orleans, who published a paper on the subject in 1856, operated in this way m two cases with success. In one of them, however, a second application of the sutures was necessary for the closure of a portion of the wound. M. Vallet made a transverse instead of a longitudinal incision, thinking he could select a partot the base of the bladder where the septum was thicker than elsewhere. The longitudinal incision, however, seems much to be preferred. The transverse one must necessarily be attended with greater risk ot hsen.orrhage, and, if made far back, also with the risk of possible injury to the entrance of the ureters The' writer was the first who Factised the operation in this country, in November 1801, m St. Mary's Hospital; it had, however, been re- commended previously by Mr. Baker Brown and others. The patient had been the subject of stone for nine years ; and, at the time of the operation, the symptoms produced by it were exceedingly severe. A calculus measuring two inches in one diameter by an inch and a half in the other was removed by an incision in the median line ol the vagina,, commencing an inch and a quarter behind the external meatus, and extending backwards nearly to the cervix uteri. The wound was im- mediately closed by twelve silver-wire sutures. The irritation of the bladder immediately subsided, and no bad symptoms followed the operation. The wound healed by first intention, with the exception of a small portion anteriorly, which required a second application of sutures for its closure. (See Lancet, Oct. 4, 1862, p. 371, and Jan. 10, 1863, p. .34.) In March 1862, Mr. Fergusson removed a stone by the vaginal incision in a child aged nine years and a half. Only one suture, however, was applied, and was removed the next day. The wound con- sequently did not imite. In August 1862, Dr. Robert Nelson oper<ited in the same way, and succeeded in obtaining immediate union. (See American Monthly Med. Jour., Sept. 1862.) Another case; with an equally good result, by Dr. Lyon, of Glasgow, is recorded in the Lancet, Nov. 1, 1862. Mr.' Baker Brown, in September 1863, removed, by vaginal incision, a stone weighing two ounces five drachms in a lady ast. forty-four. Seven silver-wire sutures were applied, and, when they were removed on the seventh day, the wound was found to be perfectly united. The patient recovered without a bad symptom. (See Trans, of Ohstet. Socielij, vol. v. p. 217.) The expediency of this mode of pro- ceeding was also recognized in 1859, by Mr. Paget, of Leicester. He adopted, however, the in- cision of the urethra instead of the vagina, and the results obtained were, in consequence, not so satisfactory. His first patient was a child aged three-and-a-half years ; it was found impossible to bring the edges of the urethra together, and in- continence of urine was the result. In a second case, in a patient aged eighteen, five sutures were inserted. The anterior part of the urethra did not unite, and there was more or less of incon- tinence for some months. For the success of the operation, it is important that the incision should not implicate the urethra. Incision of the urethra affords no additional room, but increases the length of the wound without any compensating advantage whatever; while the ure- thral portion of the wound, from its edges being so thin and delicate, is incomparably more difficult to close than that which is deeper in the vagina. The incision of the base of the bladder should be sufh- ciently free to allow the extraction of the stone, without bruising or otherwise damaging the edges of the wound. There is no fear of injuring the peritoneum, for its line of reflection from the uterus to the bladder is nearly an inch higher up than the attachment of the vagina to the cervix uteri. The cases suitable for this operation are those m which the stone is of large size, and the patient is an adult. In such cases the writer is of opinion that it is the safest and best proceeding that has as yet been devised. It is not, however,applicable to children, nor is it well adapted for young unmarried women, in whom the difficulties of the operation are necessarily greatly increased. Each time that it has been performed in an nPPr''P''""';/f,^' and conducted on proper P^n'^'P'^^V^"''"', been obtained, while the instances of r»''^f%*f,^™ fairly attributable, either to the injudicious sekc tion of the case, or to the manner m which the