TONSILS (See 752 it on a level with the folds of the velum. Lisloii's Practical Surgery, p. 251.) [With respect to the second means alluded to for extirpating the tonsils, although the guillotine is the most perfect invention for the purpose, it niiij' be as well to mention two or three other in- struments that have been from time to time intro- duced by different surgeons to effect the same purpose, and vvliich have gradually led to the more perfect contrivance in usa in the present day.] Desauit used to emjiloy an instrument which consisted of a sharp-edged blade, which was in- cluded in a silver sheath. The latter had at its extremity a kind of notch, in which the gland, about to be extirpated, was received. The surgeon seizes the tonsil with a double hook, with which he is to raise and draw it a little forwards. He is then to take the cystitome, and put the tonsil in the notch, on a level with the place where the incision is intended to be made. When the portion which is to be cut off is engaged in the notch, the operator is to draw the part towards him, so as to stretch it, and press the instrument against it from below upward. The blade being next pushed across the notch, the necessary section is accomplished. Dr. Physic, of Philadelphia, constructed an in- strument for excision of the tonsils, which he lat- terly preferred to the ligature. It is composed of two steel pieces : attached to one end of each is a steel ring; between the two is a lancet-shaped blade moveable on two screws which connect the pieces. The tonsil is fixed in the rings, and the blade thrust forwards by pressing with the thumb on a button at the extremity of the handle, when it will be divided. Dr. Cox, of New York, likewise proposed a method of excising the tonsils, which heems to Dr. Reese to be superior to either of the ' numerous processes which have been published by wa}' of improvements in this operation. A descrip- tion of his instrument maj' be found in the New York Med. and Fhys. Journal for 1829. [The guillotine in its improved modem form consists of a metallic frame six or eight inches long, about an inch wide, and two or three lines only in thickness, fixed in a wooden handle, wliich is attached to the metallic position at an obtuse angle, so that when used the view of the interior of the mouth is not obscured by the ope- rator's hand. The metallic frame terminates at its distal extremity in an oval ring or fenestra in- tended to receive the tonsil to be removed. A groove is formed in the lateral margins of the frame and its opening, in which a cutting blade slides. By pressing a projection in the handle by which the blade here terminates it is made to slide across the opening containing the structure to be removed. A prong or fork for the purpose of trans- fixing the tonsil when protruded through the fenestra of the instrument has been added to the guillotine by M. Chassaignac and which is made to move simul- taneously with tlie blade. The mechanism of these nstruments is readily understood on inspecting them and tiie mode of applying them is equally apparent. Tiie patient being seated opposite a good light, his head supported by an assistant, the operator stands in front of him, and having introduced the instrument edgewise to the back of the mftuth. Us fenestrated extremity is with care adjusted so as to embrace as ranch of the enlarged tonsil as it is thought advisable to remove. The handle being now held firmly, the thumb is used to press upon the projection moving the blade, and it is made rapidly to glide across the fenestra, severing the projecting portion of the diseased structure. Some difficulty is occasionally experienced in getting the gland to protrude to the extent desired by the operator, arising sometimes from the un- steadiness of the patient, at others from the form and size of the enlarged gland being unsuitcd to the instrument at hand. Under these circum- stances some surgeons avail themselves of a vul- scllum, by which instrument the gland may be readily forced and held in the position required before thrusting the cutting blade across it. Hemorrhage to a moderate extent usually takes place at the time of the operation, but it soon ceases, and seldom causes trouble or anxiety after- wards. In exceptional instances, however, it has been known to continue for many hours, and to cause considerable uneasiness in the mind of the patient and of the surgeon. These cases should not, therefore, be entirely lost sight of after the operation. Children especially should be watched, as the bleeding which takes place in them may not be suspected till the p;\tient becomes pale and faint, as the blood will be swallowed as fast as it escapes. The remedies most depended upon to arrest the bleeding when inordinate are—ice placed in the mouth, painting the cut surface with tincture of catechu, tincture of iodine, or of the perchloride of iron, or other styptics, and in the last resort the application of the actual cautery. After the operation the patient experiences for a few days a smarting or cutting pain on swallowing solids or even fluids possessing any pungent or irritating qualities. Wine or spirits, if taken, will be more agreeable when freel}' diluted with water. It is seldom that any medical treatment beyond a simple astringent gargle is required. Half a glass of port wine in a tumbler of water is as suitable a fluid as any for the purpose. The diet should consist of soft, unirritating materials at first, and of nutriment principally in a fluid form—milk, eggs, jellies, broths, light puddings, arrowroot, &c., but in a few days, fish, fowl, and other meats may be allowed, and will be swallowed without incon- venience. In the course of ten days or a fortnight the cut surfaces will become covered with mucous membrane, and the distressing symptoms for which the operation was performed will be greatly re- lieved, if not entirely removed. The gangrenous and destructive ulcerations which occasionally destroy the tonsils are shared in by the soft palate, the arches of the palate and fauces generall}'. The tonsil, indeed, is seldoin if ever the first structure affected, the diseased action usually commencing in the soft palate, and thence spreading to its archr^s and then to the tonsils. The cause of this destructive morbid action is usually traced to a cachexia in the system, either from the poison of syphilis, from that of sc;irlet fever, diphtheria, or some other contagious or in- fectious disease. There is always great debility and serious disturbance of the nutrition of t!ie structures in these cases, and their symptoms and treatment belong more to the particular morbid condition in which they occur than to the diseases of the tonsil. The great majority of the cases we see in which the soft palate, arches of the palate, and tonsils have been destroyed and the patients have recovered, have resulted from syphilitic ca-