TONGUE, DISEASES OF. 743 of air, and the discontinuance of metcurj'. Several facts conliiming this statement have fallen under niv own notice. Trincuvellius mentions two women who had considerable enlargement of their tongues. One, who was young, had been rubbed with mercurial ointment on her head ; but in the other, who was about fifty years old, the complaint arose from the small-pox. The excessive swelling of the tongue, in both these instances, terminated in resolution. Another case of ulceration, enlargement, and pro- trusion of the tongue is recorded by Paletta, who recommended the reduction of the part into the mouth, keeping the jaw closed with a bandage, and the frequent use of vinegar and alum gargles. The result is not stated. (See Journ. of Foreign Med. No. six. p. 457.) When the urgency is such that an immediate diminution of the swelling becomes necessary for the relief of the symptoms, the pl.m of making one or two deep incisions almg the tongue is strongly recommended. See the cases inserted by De Li Malle, in the Sth v(,lurae 4to. of the Mem. de PAcad. de C/iirurgie, and some others, related by Louis in the paper above cited. A man, recovering from a bad fever, was sud- denly attacked with pain in the tongue, followed by a swelling equally large and rapid in its forma- tion. In less than five hours the part became thrice as large as it is in its natural state, and in this space of time, De la Malle, who had been consulted, bled the patient successively in his arm, neck, and foot. The man felt very acute pain, his skin was excessively hot; his face was swelled, his pulse was hard and contracted, and his look wild. He could hardly breathe ; the tongue filled all the cavity of the mouth, and protruded between the lips. In this very urgent case three parallel incisions were made along this organ ; one along its middle, and the other two between the one in the centre and the edges of the part affected. The cuts extended through two-thirds of the preter- natural swelling, and had all the good effect which could possibly be desired. There was a great deal of luemorrhage, and the enlargement of the tongue subsided so much, that, an hour after the operation the patient was able to speak. The next day, the incisions had the appearance of being only super- ficial scarifications, and the tongue was in its natural state. In short, the incisions healed in a few days, with the use of a simple gargle. De la Malle quotes several other cases, all of which exhibit the success which he met with from this practice. He quotes also the testimony of authors, antecedent to him, who recommended this method ; and, in particular, he cites Job !i Meckren, who adopted the plan in a case where the tongue, together with the tonsils and palate, became spontaneoujly affected with a sudden and dangerous degree of swelling. Tliis treatment is found to answer by modern practitioners. (See Journ. Univenel, &c. June, 1(123.) Tongice, Fiohpsus of. I am indebted to Mr. Crosse, of Norwich, for the following observations. In some infants, at the time of birth, the tongue projects constantly beyond the lips, forming the first stage of this disease ; and if irritants or astrin- gents be not applied, so as to cause the tongue to retiMct itself into the mouth, the displacement will gradually increase, until it assnmes a formidable appearance ai\d creates serious inconveniences. When once a p6rtion of the tongue remains per- manently out of the mouth in this prolapsed state, it goes on augmenting in size from constant irrita- tion by exposure, from dependent position, and from constriction of the sphincter oris, and at length hangs over the chin, causing eversion of the lower lip. The organ is elongated and hypertro- phied, without any separate organic disease being present. The great weight of the dependent mass draws up the os hyoules and larynx, whilst it de- presses the mental portion of the lower jaw, and gives to the front teeth a forward or horizontal di- rection. The saliva escapes continually ; the speech is defective ; food can only be very imper- fectly taken into the mouth, and is swallowed with effort. When the malady has existed for years several inches of the tongue are permanently ex- posed, the upper surface becoming furred and parched, and the inferior ulcerated by pressure of the decayed incisor teeth. The patient, a dis- gusting object, suffers in his health from being im- perfectly nourished, and perhaps also from being mentally depressed. In numerous instances where this malady has been present in an extreme degree, and its nature and causes not clearly understood, excision by the knife or ligature has been practised, and a recovery effected ; but the right and more scientific treat- ment, ably pointed out by Professor Lasius, though adopted by few of his successors, consists in the gradual reduction of the prolapsed and swollen mass by leeches, lotions, bandages, and support, until the tongue can be replaced within the mouth, where it will return to its normal size, even before there has been sufficient time for the deformity of the lower jaw, and of the teeth to be corrected by proper mechanical aid, and for the lower front teeth to meet the upper. In a girl six years of age, where the tongue prolapsed between three and four inches, and was above six inches in circumference, Mr. Crosse, of Norwich, recently succeeded in replacing the prolapsed part within the mouth in a few weeks, avoiding the severe operation of excision, which it is rarely, if ever, jus- tifiable to perform for the disease in question. {Lassus, Patholof/ie CIdrurgicale, t. ii. p. ICO. London Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. vi. p. S.'ii. Edinh. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. i. p. 317. Mr. Crosse's Memoir.) [Aljscess occasionally occurs in the tongue, but it is by no means common. It is usually deeply seated in the substance of the organ, and occasions more or less suffering, with much difficulty in articulation. It is mostly the sequel of inflamma- tion of the gland follicles, and should be opened as soon as detected. Mr. Erichsen mentions a case in a boj% and Sir W. Fergusson and Mr. Holmes Coote relate one or two in adults. These abscesses require a deep incision into the swelling, and that the contents of the cyst should be pressed out, the mouth being afterwards frequently cleansed with warm water, and subsequently an astringent gargle of alum and myrrh may be used to contract and obliterate the cyst. Ulcers of (he tongue frequently arise not only from irritation occasioned by the friction of carious teeth, but they are often seen in persons of dys- peptic or intemperate habits. These ulcerations assume the appearance of small white aphthous spots, with a cracked or fissured condition of tho tongue, and often with indurated lumps of opi-