184 LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OF. the ailment iia8 passed, and the effusion alone re- mains to be got rid of. The antiphlogistic treat- ment can only do good during the stage which precedes effusion, but effusion having taken place assumes the rehation of a local mechanical obstacle to the respiration, and it must be overcome by making an artificial opening below, to allow air to enter the lungs. The sooner after the recog- nition of the true cause of the obstruction, the operation alluded to is performed, the better. The dangers of such an operation are trivial in com- parison with the benefits obtained. By it, if early performed, immediate relief is got, so far as the most distressing symptoms are concerned, and the urgency of the danger is allayed, while rest is given to the morbid parts, and time allowed for remedies to act, and those ulterior changes are pre- vented in the lung and brain which are so much to be apprehended. Lisfranc introduced, and several surgeons have practised, a plan of incising or puncturing the pharynx and glottis in order to free them of the effusion. A narrow bistouri is used for this pur- pose, and the punctures are made numerous and small. Gargles are afterwards used, to encourage the evacuation of the fluid. This plan may possibly be tried in oedematous laryngitis, if the practitioner can remain by his patient, and be ready to perform bronchotomy if two repetitions of the proceeding at an interval of two hours bring no relief. If the symptoms are urgent, such delay is not, however justified by the success hitherto of the manoeuvre referred to. There is no danger, as some have supposed, of excessive bleeding from such punctures as those alluded to. Legroux suc- ceeded in relieving the swelling by scarifying the mucous membrane with his finger nail sharpened and passed into the throat. To perform bronchotomy when the disease has advanced si as to implicate the functions of the lungs and brain, is only to compromise the reputa- tion of an operation which is invaluable when undertaken at the proper juncture. The more rapid the progress of the symptoms, the sooner should the opening into the windpipe be made, as the lungs will, in such cases, be the sooner em- barrassed. The statistics of Sestiershow that, while four-fifths of the whole number of cases died when no operation was performed, more than one third recovered (and all were very severe cases) when it was carried out. It has been recommended by Bayle and Thuillier to substitute for bronchotomy, a tube introduced into the trachea through the swelled glottis. The difficulty of accomplishing this, the evil likely to be produced by the presence of a foreign body m such a situation, and the questionable nature of the security against the immediate danger which it would bring, have caused this proposal to be little regarded. The same remark may be made with reference to the suggestion to promote the absorp- tion of the fluid present in the lips of the glottis, by the direct pressure of the finger applied from time to time; and in this country no reliance is placed ill so rapid and terrible a form of laryn- gitis, on tiie topical application of solutions of caustic, as advocated by Dr. Green, who uses a solution of the crystals of nitrate of silver ol the strength of two scruples to a drachm in the ounce of water. Many large blisters applied to the neck, chest, and shoulders, have in some cases rapidly diminished serous effusion into the tissueB of the glottis. If the patient be so fortunate as to get through the immediate danger of sub-acute laryngitis, it occasionally happens that he falls into another of scarcely less hazard. The purulent inflammation of the tissues is apt to set up sloughing, and this leads to slow exhaustion and death. The cartilages may necrose and " phthisis laryngea " become con- firmed. Local medication is employed in such deplorable and almost hopeless circumstances, in order to loosen the sloughs, and by the administra- tion of a generous diet and stimulants, ever}' attempt is made to sustain the system during the process of cicatrisation. Chronic Laryngitis is the most common of all the forms of laryngeal affections, and may vary in severity from an illness so slight as hardly to attract attention, to one of the most severe and formidable nature. Chronic laryngitis may result from neglected catarrh, or be the sequence of acute inflammation. It is, however, most commonly seen as the effect of some frequently renewed irritation, as oft-repeated colds, frequent exposure to sudden alterations of temperature,' injuries of the throat, repeated over- exertion of the voice, the inhalation of irritating dust or gases. Intemperance, scrofula, the abuse of mercury, debilitating diseases, and derangements of the digestive organs, strongly predispose to it, and it is a frequent accompaniment of tubercular disease of the lungs, and of syphilis. The effects are mainly visible in the mucous membrane and the cellular tissue beneath, in the slighter forms, and in the same tissues and in the cartilages also in the more severe. When the mucous membrane is constantly irritated and kept in a state of congestion it gets thickened, intersti- tial lymphic deposit takes place into it and into the areolar tissue beneath, and thus the whole region of the back of the pharynx, the glottis and epiglottis and downwards, as far as and sometimes even beyond the true vocal cords, becomes perma- nently altered and diseased in structure. The mucous membrane gets into a swelled, irritable, and softened condition, with granular patches upon it. The enlarged follicles become the seat of ulceration; the sub-mucous cellular tissue be- comes infiltrated with semi-purulent, or it may be tubercular matter, dissecting abscesses penetrate and destroy the surrounding parts, and occasionally burst into the oesophagus, but more commonly on the external surface, and that often by long tracts, which afterwards may become fistulous; the peri- chondrium of the cartilages becomes inflamed, and ultimately the cartilages themselves get eroded and become carious or necrosed, having frequently been partially or wholly ossified before dying; and thus is established, by slow but sure degrees, the terrible disease to which the appellation of "phthisis la- rynpea " has been not inappropriately given. The ulcers met with in chronic laryngitis are sometimes of a small round irritable chaiacter, but more frequently they are large and of irroguliu- shape. They may occupy any part of the upper portion of the larvnx, and extend downwards even into the trachea. Syphilitic ulceration spreading from the fauces is usually confined to the upper part of the larynx; while ns a consequence of idiopathic