628 STRAMONIUM. rotic are complications of morbid changes of otlier tunics. In the discovery of these we are assisted by the ophthalmoscope, by light concentrated upon the tunics by means of a strong convex lens, by ascertaining the tension of the eye, the function of the ciliary nerves, e.g. as regards the sensibility of diiferent parts of the cornea, and the functions of the retina, &c. The tunics are ad- herent to each other, and most altered at and near the most prominent part. On minute examination after excision frequently no vessels or nerves are found in the staphyloma. Of the retina, only the fibres of the framework, forming large irregular meshes, are left, while in less staphylomatous por- tions only the ganglion cells may be missing. The cboroidal pigment (stellate pigment cells) may be missing or appear very pale. The hexagonal cells are either missing or have lost their characteristic shape. Their pigment granules may be present. Their place is occasionally found occupied by transparent globules. Severe pain, intolerance of light, fiery circles, often trouble the patient while the equatorial stapliy- loma is increasing rapidly. Its progress is generally slow, and sometimes accompanied by intermittent dull pain, and by attacks of ophthalmia. Vision varies according to the locality and com- plications of the staphyloma. Large ciliary or posterior staphj'lomata admit of excellent sight, while with equatorial staphylomata there may be none, or bare perception of light. This is readily explained by the alterations of the other tunics, and of the optic disc, which alterations are the result of glaucomatous changes. Causes.—Injuries.—A blow may rupture the choroid and retina and leave the sclerotic intact, and some time after be followed by staphyloma of that portion of the sclerotic. Sclerotic staphy lomata from injury more commonly occur in the ciliary region. Loss of substance of the sclerotic from wounds or ulcers may be followed by staphy- loma, not only of the cicatrix, but also of some of the adjoining sclerotic. Inflammation of several or of all the tunics mostly of syphilitic origin. Staphyloma often appears in circumscribed por- tions of the ciliary region successively. Some por- tion of the conjunctiva, sub-conjunctival tissue, and the scleroticappear vasciilar,swollen. This gradually subsides, and one or several stapliylomata appear instead, as is supposed from the tunics not being able to resist the natural intra-ocular pressure. Fur posterior staphyloma see Myopia, and the affections of the various tunics. Tiealment.—Attacks of inflammation or pain caused by the staphyloma, or the wish to arrest the sympathetic irritation of the fellow eye, or as regards reasons of appearance, may render an opera- tion necessary. Excision of the eye is the quickest and safest treatment, and should be recommended to poor persons where the loss of time is of conse- quence. Iridectomy should previously be tried if the external appearance of the eye is satisfactory, Abscision succeeds best in sclerotic staphyloma following purulent ophthalmia. The removal of iris and lens have in some cases been attended with good results. The observation that suppuration of the vitreous substance and choroid lead to shrinking of the eyehidl, liave led to the treatment of drawing a silk thread through the tunics of the eye and through the vitreous chamber, close behind the insertion of the inner and outer reclusmuscle, leaving the thread until well-marked chemosis is produced, when the silk is withdrawn. The eye gradually shrinks, and, as in abscision, admits of the insertion of a more na- tural-looking artificial eye. C. Bader. STEATOMA. (from CTear, fat.) A wen or encysted tumor, containing fat. (See Tumors, Encysted.) STELLA, or STELLATED BANDAGE. A bandage so named because it makes a cross, or star, on the back. It is a roller, applied in the form of the figure 8, so as to keep back the shoul- ders, and often employed in cases of fracture of the clavicle. STETHOSCOPE, (from o-t^0os, ;pecius, and (TKOTrcco, exploro.) An instrument consisting of a cylinder, originally employed by Laennec, to elu- cidate the diagnosis of certain diseases of the chest, but now indeed used to throw light on the nature of many other cases. See Auscultation. "Avery few words suffice to state (as Dr. Forbes observes) in what way the stethoscope becomes, in the hands of an expert auscultator, the means of an accurate diagnosis. By it we learn, that the motions of the lungs and heart, in a state of health, produce cer- tain determinate sounds in certain parts of the chest; and that these sounds are modified in cer- tain determinate ways, and certain other de- terminate sounds superadded in states of disease. By the study of the symptoms during life, by dis- section after death, and by considering the prin- ciples of the generation of sound, we are able to connect, as cause and effect, particular forms of disease with particular sounds : hence, the indi- cations of the stethoscope, in certain diseases, he- come positive physical signs of these diseases." {CyclopcBdia of Pract. Med. art. A asculialion.) STRAMONIUM. A series of interesting ex- periments were detailed, in illustration of the pro- perties of stramonium, in a Dissertation, which was read to the Medical Faculty of the University of Pennsylvania, on the 12th of May, 1797, by Dr. Samuel Cooper. The experiments, Nos. 15 and 1 6, merit particular notice in this Dictionary, as being, perhaps, the earliest discovery of the eflfect of the local application of powerful narcotics m dilating the pupil. A drop of an infusion of the powder of stramonium was let fall into the left eye. In half an hour the pupil began to enlarge, and attained its greatest dimensions about twelve hours after the experiment, at which time )t was viewed in a considerable light, and seemed thrice as large as the other. It continued dilated two days. In a strong light, objects were seen more distinctly with the right eye; but, m a weak light, with the left. Some other gentlemen, however, on whom tlie experiment was tried, experienced no increased power of seeing in the dark. A drop ol the expressed juice, dropped into the eye of a cat, soon converted the whole of the coloured part ot the eye into pupil. (See addivell s Mcd.cal Tlwses, p. 173. 8vo. Philadelphia, 1805.) Stra- monium then resembles belladonna and hyoscya- mus in its action upon the iris. It has been ex- hibited interiiallv, in epilepsy, tic douloureux, and severe chronic pains, and used in poultices for dis- persing indurations of the breast, and in on.tnien s, for allaying the pain of piles. The doses should at first be only gr. ss. of the extract, twice a day, but they may be gradually increased to five grams.