928 VENEREAL DISEASE parts, once cured, never become again contanii iiated from the same stock of infection. And, that the matter of secondary ulcers, or those which break out in consequence of absorption, is not in- fectious. What Mr. Hunter meant by the term disposition, I think, is better exphiined than the ground for the adoption of the theories connected with it: viz. the presumption of its being formed in all the parts, capable of contamination; the certainty of its future change into actual disease; the impossibility of curing it by mercury, pre- viously to such change ; but the possibility of pre- venting its formation at all by the timely use of that remedy. Dr. Clutterbuck has well observed, that the only foundation for all these hypotheses, con- nected with the phrase disposition, is the fact, that secondary symptoms sometimes arise, notwithstanding a Jull tise of mercury. If, says this gentleman, we were to suppose with Mr, Hunter, that all the parts which are susceptible become at once con- taminated, and mercury has no influence over them in this state, the constitution should become affected in almost all cases: for absorption pro- bably always precedes the application of remedies. Either, therefore, mercury does prevent the future action, or a more frequent absence of susceptibility to the disease must be supposed than there are grounds for imagining. {Remarks on the Opinions of Mr, Hunter, p. 9-12.) But surgeons of the present day, enlightened by many new facts, une- quivocally determined since Mr. Hunter's time, know very well, that a disposition to the disease is in many instances not produced at all, even though the matter of a chancre be supposed to be absorbed; since in a large proportion of cases of chancres, which had all the characteristic appearances of such ulcers, according to Mr. Hunter's own de- scription, no secondary symptoms followed, though the patients were treated and cured without any mercury. Yet, if Mr. Hunter's theory were true, the disposition must have been produced, the ac- tion or disease itself, in the form of secondary sym- ptoms, must have ensued, sooner or later, and no cure could have been ultimately effected without mercury. Fortunately for mankind, unsound as some of the theories seem, which are attached by Mr. Hunter to the supposed disposition of the vene- real disease, or its latent form, there was one piece of advice given by him, which may be said to have had a beneficial effect in practice, though founded upon these very doctrines; and it was this : " that we should push our medicine no far- ther than the cure of the visible effects of the poi- son, and allow whatever parts may be contami- nated to come into action afterwards.' {On the Venereal Disease, p. 334.) This maxim I know has been regarded by some admirers of long sail vations as the cause of many relapses, and im perfect cures ; but when I advert to the areadfu mischief which formerly attended protracted courses of mercury for latent and imaginary com- plaints, my mind regrets that Mr. Hunter himselt siiould not have strictly adhered in practice to his own principle, from which he undoubtedly devi- ated with his patients, and even in certain other parts of his writings. However, the effect has been to discourage long courses of mercury; and perhaps, in this way, the world has been benefited by the counsel, though not rigorously adopted by hiin who gave it. Cluincres.—The penis, which in men is the common seat of a chancre, is, like every otlier part of the body, liable to diseases of the ulcerative kind, and on some accounts is rather more so than other parts. When attention is not paid to clean- liness, excoriations, or superficial ulcers, often ori- ginate. The genitals, also, like almost every other part that has been injured, when once they have suffered from the venereal disease, are ver)' liable to ulcerate again. Since, therefore, the penis is not exempted from common diseases, every judgment of the nature of ulcers upon it, as Mr. Hunter truly remarks, should be formed with great attention, particularly as all diseases upon this part are suspected to be venereal. But, for a parti- cular description of the many ordinary complaints which are apt to occur on the genitals, eitlier preceded or unpreceded by sexual intercourse, I refer to Mr. Evans's treatise. {On Ulceration of the Genital Organs, 8vo. Lend. 1819.) From facts already mentioned, however, it would appear that primary syphilitic ulcers, or chancres, hy which I imply sores capable of giving rise to the secondary symptoms of the venereal disease, have no determinate external character, are extremely diversified in their appearance, and absolutely cannot always be distinguished by their mere look from sores which are of a common, or at least a very different nature. This is another important fact, for which every man in the profession who seeks only truth, and the expulsion of errors from the doctrines of surgery, must feel obliged to the army surgeons. Nor is their merit lessened hy the consideration that the detection of mistake on this point, like the discovery of the error concern- ing the invariable progress of the venereal disease from bad to worse, unless medicine be given, has taken place in opposition to the tenets of Mr. Hunter. " Venereal ulcers (says he) commnnly have one character, which, however, is not entirely peculiar to them ; for many sores that have no disposition to heal {which is the case with a chancre) have so far the same character. A chancre has commonly a thickened base, and although in some the common inflammation spreads much further, yet the specific is confined to this base. (P. 215.) And elsewhere, he observes, a chancre first begins with an itching in the part. When the inflamma- tion is on the glans penis, a small pimple, full of matter, generally arises, without much hardness or seeming inflammation, and with very little tu- mefaction ; for the glans penis is not so apt to swell, in consequence of inflammation, as nipny other parts are, especially the prepuce. Mn. Hunter also explains that chancres situated on the glans are not attended with so much pain and inconvenience as sores of this nature on the pre- puce. When chancres occur on the frrenura, or partieularlv on the prepuce, a much more con- siderable degree of inflammation soon follows, attended with effects more extensive and visible. These latter parts, being composed of very loose cellular tissue, aftbrd a ready passage for the extra- vasated fluids. The itching is gradually convertea into pain : in some cases, the surface of the prepuce is excoriated, and afterwards ulcerates ; "'Inle, m other examples, a small pimple or abscess appears on the glans, and then turns into an ulcer. ' >> parts become afecled with a fhickemng, hv^-cA «^ first, while of the true venereal kind, tsvery circum scribed; not diffusing itself, as Mr..Hunter ob-