138 JOINTS, DISEASES OF perpetual blisters, and other irritating remedies, may be all superseded by the following treatment:— The surface of the joint is first to be cleaned with a sponge and soft brown soap and water, and then thoroughly dried. It is next to be rubbed with a sponge soalted in camphorated spirit of wine, until it begins tofeel warm, smart a little, and assume a red appearance. The joint is now to be covered with a cerate, composed of equal parts of ceratum saponis and the ung. hydrarg. fortius cum camphora; and this, in the knee, for at least six inclies above and below the point at which the condyles of the femur are opposed to the head of the tibia. Tlie limb is next to be supported to the same extent with strips of calico, spread with the emplastrum plumbi, and applied so as to prevent motion of the joint. Then is to be laid on an additional covering of em- plastrum saponis, spread on thick leather, and cut into four broad pieces; one for the front, another for the back, and the two others for the sides of the joint; and, lastly, the whole is secured by means of a calico bandage, which is put on very gently, and rather for the purpose of securing the plaster and giving greater thickness and secunty to the whole, than for the purpose of compressing the joint. [In the employment of this mode of pressure, care must be observed that there is no evidence ot active inflammation going on in the articulation, which it would certainly increase. The pressure should at first be slight, and gradually increased at subsequent dressings. Sir Benjamin Brodie confirms the good efi-ects of pressure in scrofulous cases, when suppuration has not only ceased, but there is a tendency towaids the occurrence o± an- kylosis. „ , , , If abscess form, it must be freely opened by an incision of a proper length, the joint poulticed, and the patient's general health attended to, so as to promote the evolution of granulations, and pre- vent hectic. In these cases, if the limb^can be preserved, its after utility and the patient s com- fort will mainly depend upon the position in winch it is allowed to ankylose.] _ . t> j- With respect to medicines, Sir Benjamin Brodie has found preparations of steel more frequently use- ful than others, continued over a period of several years. The mineral acids are found serviceable Avhen there are night sweats. Iodine m some ol its various forms, combined with cod-liver oil, is the chief remedial agent in this all other scrofulous affections. (See Sckofula ) The diet should be nourishmg, but plain; the open air should be enjoyed as much as possible, with- out .exercising the joint. Mr. Lloyd recommends, in his work on " Scrofula," attention to the bowels and secretions; and, following out Mr. Abernethy s plan, he employs blue pill every night, and de oc . Lz^e twice'a day. The advantage o mercuo', however, is very questionable in scrofulous atlcc tions, unless as a Regulator of the secre ion. f there is a debilitating diarrhoea 't "^^'^t l-c con trolled by proper remedies, into which "P' " J' J bismuth enter.' In some cases 'T^ k.y dispensable. (See AiMPaxATioN. /"J, ^^J^ casL excision of the diseased joiiit P-^-ed to amputation of the limb, as wiu u noticed. (See Joints, Excision of;. DUcasc of ihc Hip-joint.-lt seems probable that this disease has its varieties, some ot wiiicn may be connected with scrofula, while others cannot be suspected to have any concern with it._ Sir B. Brodie's investigations lead him to believe, however, that the disease is of that nature in which the first change is mostly ulceration of the carti- lages. The present complaint is most frequently seen in children under the age of fourteen; but no age, no sex, no rank nor condition of life,is exempt from the possibility of being afflicted ; so that, though children form a large proportion of those subjects who are attacked, yet the number in adults, and even in old persons, is considerable. The disease is considered by Van der Ha;ar and Morgagni to be more frequent in females than males; but by Albers, Fricker, and Rust, the male sex is specified as more often afflicted than the female. (See W. Coulson, On Dis. of the liip-joini, p. IS.) , . , [Mr. Erichsen mentions that, out of forty-eight cases of this disease, of which he had taken notes, in sixteen only did it take place at or after fifteen years of age, and of these in six cases only it hap- pened above the age of twenty; thus it may be considered essentially a disease of childhood or early life. {Science mid Art of Surgery, ed. 2, p. 736.) Out of 102 cases, in which Mr. Pirrie had the age of the patients, eighty were under sixteen years of age, nineteen between sixteen and thirty- five, and three between thirtj'-five and fortj-. {Prin. and Prao. of Simjery, ed. 2, p. 437.) The general testimony of surgeons who have written upon this disease goes to prove that it is almost entirely confined to children or persons under the age of puberty. _ ., , • Some of the most recent writers describe hip- joint disease according to the special part of the articulation involved. Mr. Barwell believes that, in every case, the mischief commences either in the synovial membrane or in the bone; but he acknow^- ledges it as a very difficult matter to determine whether a disease already somewhat advanced may have been originally synovial or osseous. In fact, some men of great experience and care have asserted that all hip-joint diseases begm in the bone (Rust, of Vienna, held this opinion), while others have as positively affirmed that all such maladies commence in the synovial membrane. (See Barwell, Treatise on Dis. of the Jotnts, y. 098 ) There can be no doubt that the expression coxalgia, or hip-joint disease, is a too general one, and that certain forms of disease affecting this joint dilfer from one another, as in the other articula- tions of the body. We think, therefore, that the division of hip disease as adopted by Mr. Lncli- sen a good and practical one, and one that can be clearly recognised in practice. In a surgical point of view, the hip-joint is composed of three distinct parts—namely, the soft structures, the acetabu- lum, and the head of the femur. He therefore divides diseases of this joint into Arthritic, Aceta- bular, and Femoral. These we shall specially con- sider; but we may here mention that the last is the one in which the diifcrent stages of the disease exist, as usually described by most writers. Arthilio Coxalgia.—■n^^ Arthritic lorm ot hip-joint disease may commence in any ot t le soft structures of the joint: in the capsule the synovial membrane, the cartilages, or the Uga- nientum teres. These are alone primarily aftected, usually with acute inflammation, presenting the characters of arthritis in other joints; and the dis-