SURGERY. C5,0 to propose a mode of operating attended with invariable success. He ascertained, by experiments and observations, that exposure to atmospherical air, simply, can neither produce nor increase iu- flamniiUioii. He discovered in the blood so many phenomena, connected with life, and not to be referred to any other cause, that he considered it alive in its fluid state. He improved the operation for the fistula lachrymalis, by removing a circular piece of the 03 unguis, instead of breaking it down with the point of a trocar. He explained, better than any of his predecessors, all the highly in- teresting modern doctrines relative to inflammation, union by the first intention, suppuration, ulceration, and mortification. His writings also throw con- siderable light on the growth, structure, and diseases of the teeth. As instances of his operative skill, it deserves to lie mentioned, that he removed a tumor from the side of the head and neck of a patient at St. George's Hospital, as large as the head to which it was attached; and by bringintj the cut edges of the skin together, the whole wound was nearly healed by the first intention. He like wise dissected out of the neck a tumor which one of the best operators in this country had declared, rather too strongly, that no one but a fool or a madman would meddle with; and the patient got perfectly well. But per- haps the greatest improvement which he made in the practice of surgery, was his invention of a new mode of performing the operation for the popliteal aneurism, by taking up the femoral artery on the anterior part of the thigh, with- out opening the tumor in the ham. (See Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Cliir. Knoivledge.) The safety and efficacy of this method of operating have now been fully established, and the plan has been extended to all operations for the cure of this formidable disease. (See Aneurism.) According to Sir Everard Home, Mr. Hunter was also one of the first who taught, that the ex- cision of the bitten part was the only sure mode of preventing hydrophobia; and he extended the time, during which this proceeding might be reasonably adopted, beyond the period generally specified. His researches into the nature of the venereal disease, and his observations on the treatment, will for ever be a lasting monument of his wonderful powers of reasoning and investigation. If he left many points of the subject confused and unsettled, he Jidmirably succeeded in the elucidation of others; and hia work on this interesting disorder, with all its defects, will long continue to be a source of valuable information. Even the language and mode of expression of tliis great man were his own; for so original vvere his sentiments, that they could hardly be delineated by any ordinary arrangement of words. His phrases are still .adopted in all the medical schools of this country, and continue to modify the style of almost every professional book. Great as Mr. Hunter's merit as a surgeon was, it was still greater as a comparative anatomist and physiologist. In these characters, the museum of the Royal Colleije of Surgeons in London, and his papers in the Phil. Trans., will forever attest his greatness. While in Great Britain the preceding distin- guished men were raising the character of their profession — Lancisi, Morgagni, MolincUi, Her- trandi, Guattani, Mascngni, Matani, Troja, and Moscati, were pursuing a corresponding honourable career in Italy. Bertrandi's Trealisc on the Opera- tions of Surgery, and Troja's work. On the Re- generation of Bones, are, even at this day, in high repute. Of late years, the credit of the Italian surgeons has been well maintained by Monteggia, Scarpa, Paletta, Quadri, Assalini, Morigi, Regnoli,and others. In Holland flourished Albinus, Sandifort, and Camper; and in Germany and the north of Europe, the immortal Haller, Heister, well known for his Instiiutiones GitirurgicB, Plainer, Bilguer, Acrell, Callisen [Systema Cliirur- gice HodierniE, 2 vols. 8vo.); Brambilla, Theden {Progres Ullerieurs de la Ckinirgie); Schmucker ( Vevmischle chirurgisclie Schriften, b. 3, and Chir. Wahrnehmungen), Richter (Traite des Hernies, 2 vols. 8vn. Dibl.fur die Chirurgie; Anfangsgr, der Wundarzn. 7 h. and 04s. Chiriirgicaruiii Fa^o.) ; Arneniann, Weidniann, Soemmering, Creutzen- feldt, Hesselbach, Hufeland, Graefe, Klein, Rust, Himly, Langenbeck, Waltlier, J. A. Schmidt, G. J. Beer, Ghelius, Amraon, Dieifenbach, &c. Be it also recorded, as a part of the great merit of the Germans, that they rank amongst the best and most minute anatomists; that they are zealous cul- tivators of comparative anatomy; that their in- dustry allows no improvement in medical science, wherever made, to escape their notice; and that surgery is greatly indebted to them for the best descriptions of the diseases of the eye. On the continent, the Royal Academy of Sur- gery at Paris was long considered quite as the solar light of this branch of science. Nothing, in- deed, contributed so materially to the improve- ment of surgical knowledge as this establishment; a noble institution, which, for a long while, gave our neighbours infinite advantage over us, in the cultivation of this moat useful profession. The French Revolution, however, did not spare even this beneficial establishment, in wliich emulation and talents had been so long united for the benefit of mankind. The various dissertations, published by its illustrious members, will serve as a perpetual memorial of the spirit, ability, and success with which its objects were pursued; and centuries hence, practitioners will reap from the pages of its memoirs the most valuable information. Although the Academy was deprived of the talents of Louis, who died a short time before its suppressi in, it still had at this period several members, worthy of con- tinuing its labours, and supporting its reputation; Stibatier, Desault, who may be regarded as the Pott of France, Chopart, Lassus, Peyrilhe, Du- bois, Percy, Baudelocque, Pelletan, Sue, &c. The Academy of Surgery in P'raiice was suc- ceeded by the School of Medicine (Ecole de M6- decine). Desault, who had been almost a stranger in the former, became the lending character in tho hitter. Several things strongly recommend him to the remembrance and admiration of posterity; as for instance, the exactness and method which he in- troduced into the study of anatomy; the ingenious kinds of app.-iratus which he invented for the treat- ment of fractures; a noble ardour in his profession, which he knew how to impart to all his pupils; his clinical lectures upon surgery, which were the first over delivered; and the boldness and simplicity of his operations. From the Ecole de Medeciiio issued Dupuytren, Boyer, Richerand, Dubois, Lheritier, Mauoury, Lalleinant, Petit de Lyon, Bichat, Bdclard, Cloqnet, &c. Bichat, as 11 phy- u u 2