He carried his i 89* VKSICO-VAGINAL FISTULA strument for this purpose (see Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 24, 18(.0), and another of sim) lei constnictiou was used hy Sir James Simpson (see Med. Times and Gazette, vol. i., 1859). In tightening and twisting the wires great care is required, on the one hand that the surfiices may be brought into sufficiently close apposition, and on the other hand that the wires may not be drawn so tight as to cause tlie edges to be inverted. After Ti-eutment.—The operation is now com- pleted ; no dressing of any kind is required, but the vagtna may be gently and carefully syringed twice daily with warm water. A short silver catheter, with a double curve like an italic 6', wliich from its form will, as Dr. Sims calls it, be " self-retaining," must be introduced into the bladder ; its free end having attached to it an india-rubber tube long enough to reach a vesse placed under the patient's bed, into which thi urine is thus drained away as fast as it is formed. The catheter must be worn for eight or ten days, but it should be removed and cleaned once a day. Opium should be given in sufficient doses to allay the restlessness of the patient, and to prevent the action of the bowels, which should be kept confined for about a week. All meddling with the fistula or manipulation of any kind should be carefully avoided, as likely to interfere with the union of the parts, which should not be examined till nine or ten days liave elapsed. At the end of that time, and after the rectum has been evacuated, the duck-bill speculum may be introduced, and if the union is firm the sutures may be removed, but if there is any doubt on the point, they may be left for three or four days longer with advantage. By careful attention to the foregoing rules success may be confidently looked for in all cases in which the margins of the fistula are in a healthy and pliant condition, and the patient in fiiir health. The unpromising cases are those in which there has been loss of substance from sloughing, leaving widely gaping openings, with margins rigid from cicatricial contraction. The writer has operated on fifteen cases, of which ten were cured by a single operation, three required more than one operation before complete unison was obtained, and two failed altogether for the reason just mentioned, the loss of substance having been so great as to make it impossible to draw the edges into con- tJict, even with the aid of incisions in the neigh- bourliood of the fistula to reliere the tension. causing it for the future to form part of the wall of the bladder, the vagina being converted into a blind cul de sac. In tliis way the incontinence of urine is prevented, and the menstrual secretion flows into the bladder and is discharged]^ with the urine. It has been established by repeated observation that menstruation may take place through the bladder without detriment or incon.i venience. The periodical function of the uterus is not interrupted on the one hand, nor on the other hand does the. bladder resent the passage through it of the menstrual secretion. At the menstrual periods the urine becomes bright red and remains so for four or five days, and were it not for this, the patient would often be unaware of what was taking place^ At the worst, a slight periodical irritability of the bladder is the only inconvenience complained of. Vesico-iiti'ro-va(ji?ial Fistula. — This form of urinary fistula is oft»n included under the more common term of vesico-vaginal, but the distinction is worth making, as it is a variety which is not unfrequently met with, and a different plan of treatment is often required for its cure. In vesico- utero-vagina! fistulaj the upper part of the vagina and lower part of the anterior lip of the cervix uteri are involved. These fistulas are often of large size from extensive destruction of one or both of these parts, causing them to gape widely open, BO that it may be almost or quite impossible t" bring their edges into contact. These cases are often remediable in no other way than bv turning the uterus forwards into the gap and uniting the anterior or vaginal border of the fistula to the pos- teiior lip of the os uteri, thus making use of the lower end of the uteiuj to lill up the deficiency and Vesico-uterine Fistula.—A vesico-uterine fig- tula is an abnormal communication between the base of the bladder and the uterus, always, in the cases hitherto observed, at some part of the canal of the cervix uteri, the vagina, and the os uteri as seen from the vagina, being in a sound and normal condition. It produces, of course, complete in- continence, the urine flowing through the fistula, and escaping by the os uteri into the vagina. These fistulce are difficult to discover, and it is not improbable that they may sometimes have been overlooked, and the incontinence attributed to some other cause. On examination with tlie speculum, however, urine may generally be seen to flow from the os uteri into the vagina, and by care- ful manipulation, a sound may be passed from the bladder through the fistula, and made to touch another sound introduced into the cervix uteri. In a case which occurred to the writer, and which re- sulted from protracted labour, the os uteri was large enough to admit the finger, and the fistula could be distinctly felt, while a sound introduced into the bladder could readily be made to touch the finger in the cervix uteri. Vesico-uterine fistulas are very rare. The only surgeon who has paid much attention to the sub- ject is M. Jobert de Lamballe.who states that he has operated on as many as fourteen cases. In this country they have attracted little notice. Sir James i Simpson has recorded a curious case, in which an abscess formed betwden the bladder and uterus, and opened a communication between the two cavitie^ Nitrate of silver was applied to the opening, and I it gradually contracted and closed. {Obstctne i Memoirs, Vol. i., p. 232.) Dr. Leishman, f « Glasgow, published an account of another case m the Glusyow Medical JouniaUov Oct. 1861. This was the result of a lingering labour. A spontane- ■ ous cure appears to have taken place by closure Of the OS uteri, for the incontinence gradually ceased, and menstruation was performed through the bladder. A year afterwards, the os uteri was found to be healthy in appearance, and '■'■finnlS closed." . , Two plans of operation were practised DJ Joberf. In the first, he made free lateral incisions through the os uteri and upper end of the vaginn, so as to convert the lower part of the cervi.\- uteri into two flaps, an anterior and a posterior, by separating which the fistulous aperture might be brought into view, so as to admit of its edges being pared, and sutures being applied I