894 UTl'RUS, RETROVERSION this projection. This oblique direction of the re- ducing force is a point of great importance. It was insisted upon by Dr. Skinner {Brit. Med. Journ., 1860), who prefers the position on the left side, and recoramends first, by finger in the vagina, to push the cervix uteri backwards towards the left acetabulum, so as to bring the uterus into the right oblique diameter of the pelvis; then the fin- gers in the rectum push the fundus towards the ri"ht sacro-iliac synchondrosis. If the patient is not under chloroform, pressure should be exerted during expiration only. I have reduced an im- pacted retroverti'd gravid uterus with comparative facility, by attention to this rule, which had re- sisted many previous efforts. Various "means have been suggested and tried to facilitate reduction. Halpin applied a sheep^s bladder in the rectum, then distended it with air or water, with the view of so lifting up the uterus. Desgianges took up the same idea. I tried it in one "case without success. Dr. Play fair relates (^Lancet) a case in which fluid pressure, sustained for twenty-four hours in the vagina, replaced the uterus. In fact, a point d'appui is wanted belovv, which the perinseum is ill-adapted to give ; and in most cases, it would be difficult to get a bladder into the vagina. The distensibility of the floor of the pelvis allows the bladder to expand down- wards. And as it is impossible to govern with accuracy the direction of the force, the bladder ex- panding presses the fundus uteri directly upwards under the promontory: thus in reality calling for more force than would be necessary if the hand —a sentient and intelligent instrument—were used in the manner already described. Again, position has been much insisted upon. Blundell recommended the knee-and-elbow position. Gode- froy {Gaz.dcs Hopitatuv, 1859) placed the patient on the edge of the bed, so that her head and chest were hanging down on the floor, the legs and pel- vis only being on the bed. In this position there is no resistance from the abdominal walls. Then two or more fingers in the rectum easily replaced the uterus. Negrier, of Angers, introduced the whole hand into the vagina, turned it in supina- tion, and pressed forcibly by the flat surface made by the backs of the first phalanges and by the thumb brought level with them. This he calls " r^^dudion d poinrj ferme:' He succeeded by it in four cases. An objection to pushing the uterus with the tips of the fingers is that the indenta- tion thus made in its wall is likely to detach the placenta, and even to injure the tissue of the uterus. E. Rigby airrees with Dewees in recommending bleeding to"" facilitate reduction. In some cases where there is great conijeslion in the pelvic vessels, no doubt, this proceeding would be useful. It is scarcely necessary to do more than advert to the plan practised by Amussat, who supplemented his own strength by getting two or three assistants to push his arm behind him. If the uterus does not rise under moderate, well-directed force, it is better to abandon the attempt, and to fall back upon puncture. It is useful, whilst pushing the uterus from below, to exert counter-pressure by the other hand applied above the symphysis pubis. Iro- fessor I-Ialbertsma relates a case in which the woman died ; the uterus was found retioHcxetl and rctroverted. There was no peritonitis. On pressiua up the fundus, the uterus iininediately rosu like a feather into its place. Tliia post- AND RETROFLEXION OF. mortem demonstration of reduction is especially valuable. The management of the case after reduction is important. Hichter, Baudelocque, and Simpson re- commend to apply a pessary to prevent the uterus from falling back again. The best pessary for this is a large-sized Hodges' lever. I have on many occasions used this pessary to support the uterus when retroverted, during the first three or four months of gestation, as a security against impac- tion. This precaution should never be omitted in the case of pregnancy occurring in a woman who has once suii'ered from retroversion or retroflexion. Other points are, absolute rest, encouraged by opium ; keeping the bladder empty —retention may persist from paralysis even after pressure is removed—and medicines, such as mineral acids, to correct the systemic disturbance from urinsemia. The bladder requires the most careful attention. The liability of the mucous coat to undergo necrosis must be borne in mind. Shreds detached may occlude the urethra.] Robert Barnes. See Lynn, W. Hunter, Garthshore, Bird, and Hooper, in Med. Ubs. and Inq. vols. iv. v. and vi. Chest on and Cleghorn, in Med. Communications, vol. ii. Saxtorph, in Collect. Soc. Med. Hafmens., vol. ii 1775. Vesgranqes, in Journ. de MM. t. lix. A. Wall, Diss, de Uteri graiule Reflectioue. Hal. 1782. Melitsch, Von der Umbeugung der Gebarmntter, Prao-, 1790. Lo/imeier, in Theden's neuen Bemerk- unRen, ike. bd. iii. Berlin, 1795. John Clarke, Prac- tical Essays on the Management of Pregnancy and Labour, Loud. 1793. Murray, in Uteri Retrover- sionem Animadversiones, Upsal. 1797. Uenman t Introduction to Midwifery, Lond.1801. S. Memmm, On Retroversion of the Womb, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1810. Jahn, De Utero Retroverso, Jen. 1787. Desgrmget, in Journ. de M^d. t. Ixvi. p. 85. Kiem, Chir. Bemer- kungen, p. 235. Baicdeloeque, Sur le Renversement de la Matrice, &c. Paris, 1803. Cochell, Es ay on Retroversiou of the Uterus, Lond. 178a. -R'^''^. Chir. Bibl. b. iv. pp. 61-70-235-555; l3-V.PP-132- 548; b. vii. pp. 292 ; b. viii. pp. 715 ; b. 'X-P-.'?^ 1 »• xi nn 310-328- b.xii. pp.45—50; and WeirsTvO Cases of Retroversio Uteri, with Remarks, in Glasgow Med Journ. vol. i. p. 262, &c. Ncegele, Erfahrungea und Abhandlungen aus dem Gebieteder KraukUe.tea des weiblichen Geschlechtes, Mannli. 18l2._ Schmitt, Bermerkungen, &c. i ber die Zuruckbeu- gung der Gebarmntter bei Nichtschwangern, Sc. Wiel, 1820. H. Eichorn, Von .der Zuruckbeuguu? der nicht schwangeren Gel armiitter, 1822. Baynham, A Case of Retroverted U">-us treated by Puncture of that Organ in Edin Med. fnf f Journ. No. 103, p. 256. J. T. Inglehy,On Ma POS'''"f nf the Uterus &c. in No. 122 of the same Work, p. ? 7 anc all modern works on Midwifery in genera • Mo ler, De pronatione uten pnst-partum, 1803. Die D.Vlocationen der Gebiirmutter, 822 ; H^^.^ chotv, Verhandlungen der Gesellschaf f. G?!'"^ kund'e in Berlin, 1851. Rochtmlz, 'l-'d- ' f Des deviations ut^nnes, 852. .G- ^^'f """, f. Lehre iiber die Retrollexio uten. M?na I Geburt.kunde, 1856. '"f'"^.J^'-^'' '^"'l.^^'^'M, t S=k^86'^7!"^5i«,.r;.a,%nats, schr. f. Geburtsk. 1869.] UVA URSI, first brought into JL^' Haen, was once considered a powerful remedy n ca cul'us ; but, though its virtue in lessening the irritation of the bladder is still acknowledged claim to utility on any o'''^--/""J^K rejected. Dr. Austin recommended it fi^r e en thi irritability of the bladder, and din n.s^mg^^^^ secretion of diseased mucus, whicli, e s vv greatly contributed to the augmentation stone. I