PUPIL. 481 it occupies the nrea. It appears " greenish " or " yellowish " according to the amount of satura- tion of the crystalline lens, and vitreous with yellow colouring matter ; and there are also varieties of colour produced from cataract, by exudation and pigment from the iris. The "cat's eye pupil," or a yellower golden reflection from behind the pupil, is produced by lymph or cancer, or pus in the vitreous chamber, and may appear as a consequence of displaced retina. In fair persons, and especially in albinos with widely dilated pupils, the natural red reflection from the choroid may be perceived in certain positions of the eye. All these anomalies of size, shape, colour,and mobility are frequently combined with each other. In the examination by lateral illumination and in the local application of atropia, we have two means of recognising these anomalies when they result from iritis and adhesions; as also with the opiithalmoscope we may ascertain those connected with intra-ocular and cerebral changes. The descriptions of the morbid changes of the iris were in many instances derived from microscopic examination of the living eye.] When the opening in the centre of the iris is preternaturally large, and this organ more or less deprived of its power of motion, the disease is technically named mydriasis, which is either symptjmatic or idiopathic. The first form of the complaint isexemplihed in hydrocephalus, hydroph- thalniia, pressure on the brain from various causes, worms, amaurosis, &c. The second often presents itself as a paralytic affection of the iris ; a state frequently induced by the application of certain narcotics, like belladonna, and hyoscyaraus. Congenital cases of mydriasis are also met with, as well as instances brought on by a long residence in darkness. A dilatation of the pupil may like- wise be the consequence of an adhesion of the uvea to the anterior capsule of the lens. When the retina continues sensible, the inconveniences, pro- duced by mydriasis, are intoler.ance of light, com- plete blindness in the daytime, and in the end amaurotic mischief, occasioned by the irritation of the immoderate quantity of the rays of light ad- mitted within the eye. The kind oFprognosis, and the mode of treatment, must often depend entirely upon the primary affection, of which many cases of mydriasis are only symptomatic. Of course the original disorder must always be cured if possible. When mydriasis appears to arise from paralysis of the iris, blisters may be applied over the eyebrows, and the same reme'dies tried, wliich are usually employed in other local paralytic disorders. The entrance of too much light into the eye may be moderated with shades and tubulated spectacles. The case, which is the reverse of the preceding, is a preternaturally contracted, more or less im- movable state of the pupil, termed myosis. Ac- cording to Weller, it is sometimes congenital. It is often met with as a symptom of other disorders, especially ophthalmy, inflammation of the dura mater, phrenitis, concussion of the brain, &c. Persons whose business is to be looking at small shining objects, as watchmakers, often acquire a myosis from habit, and they cannot be cured of it, unless they avoid the causes which brought it on, keep themselves in a darkish room, and use a green shade or tubulated spectacles. (Sec Weller''s Manual, cfco., transl. by Monteath, vol. ii. p. 51.) It is noticed by Beer, that myosis, when a spque of ophthalmia, is less obvious than most other con- sequences of ocular inflammation ; for though the iris is motionless, and the pupil considerably diminished, this opening is perfectly clear and black, and not drawn out of its usual position, nor is its pupillary edge in the slightest degree angular. The patient, though ho is continually complaining of weakness of sight, is able to distinguish (with some trouble indeed) even the smallest objects in the daytime, and in very light situations ; but his sight is evidently worse in the evening,and in dark- ish places in the daytime ; for when both his eyes are affected, he is in the dusk nearly blind, and can scarcely find his way. Beer remarks, that almost every considerable internal ophthalmia, or iritis, however favourably the disorder may be cured, and the eyesight restored, always leaves after it more or less contraction of the pupil, which affec- tion, though not the least portion of coagulating lymph can be perceived in the posterior chamber, is combined with a partial or complete immobility of the iris. Beer assures us that every expedient, which he has yet tried for the permanent removal of this complaint, has failed ; the dilatation of the pupil thus produced being but temporary. And with respect to the most powerful narcotics, he states, that in two cases, they were worse than useless, as they caused a still greater contraction of the pupil, which however, after a few hours, resumed its former diameter. Hence, Beer is dis- posed to set down the myosis, following internal ophthalmy, as an incurable complaint. (See Lehre von den Augenh: b. ii. p. 261, &c.) The next case demanding some notice in this work, is a closure of the pupil {atresia pupillm). According to Beer's observations, there is only one exception, in which in the adult patient a closure of the pupil is not the consequence of ophthalmia, and the case here signified is termed a collapse of the pupil, or synizesis pupillcB, the causes^ of which are said to be, either a very considerable loss of the vitreous humour from a wound of the eye, or else a dissolved, or rather disorganised state of the same humour, known under the name of synchisis. (Lehre, S^c. b. ii. p. 190.) Every internal oph- thalmia, extending to the retina and choroid, when in its highest degree, is apt to produce a complete closure of the pupil. However, the obliteration of this opening is not the only cause of blindness ; for long before this state of the iris happens, the sight is destroyed by considerable and frequently ir- remediable injury of the retina and neighbouring textures, in which the inflammation is directly situated. An incomplete closure of the pupil, Beer says, is still more disposed to take place at the period when iritis passes from its first into its second stage ; and syphilitic iritis is said to be par- ticularly apt to leave alter it this disagreeable con- sequence. (Vol. cit. p. 191.) In cases of the latter description, vision is not always quite pre- vented, but only more or less diminished, the coa- gulating lymph, eflFused in the posterior chamber, having formed only a delicate scmitransparent web. However, if, in the second stage of the inflamma- tion, such lymph should bo converted into a dense membrane, with opacity of the lens and its cap- sule, the eye then only retains moro or less per- fectly the faculty of just distinguishing the light. But when, in such a case, the patient is completely insensible of the difference between light and