414 OVARIOTOMY. secreted, and the cyst gradually collapse and close. This hope is seldom realised. As a rule, air enters the cyst, the opening closes, the fluid remaining in the cyst, or that re-secreted, putrifies ; suppurative inflammation of the lining membrane comes on, and all this is accompanied by a low form of exhaustive fever or pyajtnia, which is only relieved by making and maintaining a free opening. The frequency of tliese consequences should make tapping through the vagina an exceptional practice ; but it is to be recommended in cases where an ovarian cyst is bound down in the pelvis by adiiesions, and its pressure on the bladder or rectum must be relieved. In such cases the puncture should be made where the fluctuation is most evident, and as near the median line as possible. The canula or an elastic catheter may be left in the cyst, and the safest plan is either to introduce a wire-seton or a drainage-tube through part of the cyst and fasten it in the vagina, or to make an incision as the canula is withdrawn and keep the opening patent by a pledget of iodised lint, in order to permit free escape of any fluid as fast as it is secreted. 3. Tapping ihrough ilie rectum has some ad- vantages over tapping through the vagina. There is no constant discharge of ofl:ensive fluid; for any ovarian fluid which enters the rectum is retamed, just as a liquid motion is retained, by the sphincter ani, and it is discharged when the patient pleases. But a dysenteric tenesmus has been occasionally observed, which has proved very distressing, and fatal inflammation has followed entrance of fcecal gases into the cyst. It is but a choice of evils, and the surgeon must be guided by the situation and progress of the cyst in each case. 4. Pressure after tapping is probably useless. It has been supposed, in some cases, where simple tapping has been followed by a radical cure, that the cure was due to the pressure. But this was from ignorance ot the fact, that single, thin-walled cysts, with limpid contents, frequently collapse after simple tapping, and do not refill. 5. Tapping and the formation of a permanent subcutaneous opening in the cyst-viaU.—It has been proposed to empty^a cyst by tapping, and then to make a crucial incision in its wall, or to cut away a piece of the wall, in order that the ovarian fluid might enter the peritoneal cavity and be absorbed as fast as it is formed. Both these plans have been tried, and each with success, ui.-* ' case. But it is a most hazardous proceeding, for we learn from cases in which ovarian fluid enters the peritoneal cavity in consequence of accidental or spontaneous rupture of the cyst, that, although in some rare exceptions a radical cure has followed, fatal peritonitis is the ordinary result. 6. Tapping and formation of a permanent open- ing through the skin, vagina, or rectum.—A perma- nent ovarian fistula has sometimes followed simple tapping, and has frequently been produced by securing the canula or an elastic tube in tlie open- ing by the skin. This is a most dangerous praciice, wliich cannot be justified by a few rare and exceptional successful cases. The results by the vagina or rectum may prove to be more satisfactory. 7. Incision into ovarian tumors can only be justified when it is the only means of aftbrding relief or prolonging life. There are cases where the contents of the cysts are bo viscid that they will not escape through the largest canula j but the patient is being killed by the pressure. Here a free incision through a part of the abdominal wall, or of the vagina, where the tumor is adherent, may give great temporary relief; but, sooner or later, the patient is worn out by the exhausting dis- charge. 8. Tapping followed hj injection of iodine may be practised in cases where a cyst is single, or where one cyst lis so far developed beyond the others as to be the chief cause of distress. But it is dangerous, and must be useless, in cases of com- pound cysts or semi-solid tumors. It is difficult to ascertain the proportionate danger of this treat- ment, as compared with ovariotomy in favourable cases (and it must be remembered that the cases in which it is indicated are those most favourable for ovariotomy); but it would seem to be advisable in cases of large single cysts, where simple tapping has proved useless, or where there is something which forbids ovariotomy. Fatal cases are on record where iodine was in- jected into the peritoneal cavity instead of the cyst, either from error of diagnosis, or from the empty cyst having slipped off the canula before the iodine was injected. This danger has been obviated by passing an elastic catheter through the canula to the bottom of the cyst, and injecting through the catheter. With the same object the writer contrived an instrument, consisting of a trocar fourteen inches long and covered by a canula of gum elastic. The trocar is used in the ordinary manner; but as it is withdrawn, the canula is pushed on to the bottom of the cyst. A syringe with a stop-cock, and a graduated glass vessel for the iodine, are so secured that every drop of ovarian fluid may be removed, and the entrance of air is prevented during the escape of the fluid, the entrance of iodine, and the withdrawal of any portion of the iodine. A much simpler elastic tube and bottle is now fitted to his ordinary syphon- A strong watery solution of iodine in solution of iodide of potassium appears to be preferable to an alcoholic solution. The symptoms, in some fatal cases, have been those of alcoholic rather than of iodine poisoning. The solution used by the writer is a scruple of iodine and half a drachm of iodide of potassium in an ounce of water. When a cyst holds from ten to twenty pints ot fluid, from one to two ounces of this solution may be left in the cyst. When the cyst ho ds from twenty to fifty pints of fluid, it would probably be better to inject eight, ten, or twelve ounces of the solution, so that the whole of the lining membrane may be acted on, and then remove the greater portion of the solution. 9. Ovariotomy is the only resource when the other modes of treatment enumerated are not likely to be useful, or have failed. It is a danger- ous operation, but the results are quite as favour- able as those of many other capital operations. In successful cases the patient is restored to pertect health, and if only one ovary has been removed she may bear children afterwards. AH of ovarian tumors, except those o n a gna U character, may be extirpated, vz. «'"'';^» "'^S ' containing limpid, colourless "j;, tending to rapid reproduction; or those ^'th thick, viscid,%clat niform, opaque, more or less dark