iEASES OF. 691 SKIN, DI and a proper oxygenization of the blood ; it too often puts an unreasonable strain ou the mental faculties; it destroys appetite; and weakens nu- trition and innervation. Some are compelled to inhale a hot, stifling and impure atmosphere for many hours of the day and night ; others are led into an atmosphere which is chilly and damp, and checks the normal function of the skin; some are forced to breathe an air charged with animal fumes, dust, or chemical vapours, sometimes poisonous ; and some have the skin irritated by saturation in an acid or alkaline solution; by the hot dry particles of lime and brickdust, or by chemical substances, such as sugar, &c. These latter, like some others, perform the double part of predispos- ing and of exciting causes. Visceral dercmgevient acts the part of a predisposing cause, not only in its necessary influence upon the nervous and nutritive functions, but also by a reflex irritation from the organ in a state of disease, as the gastro- intestinal, the pulmonary, the urinary or the uterine mucous membrane, to the cutaneous organ. And, the influence of climate is shown in the development of eczema, in a warm, damp and relaxing locality; in the production of lichen and prurigo, in a dry and stimulating region; as also in the endemic natm-e of certain diseases, for example, the pellagra of Italy ; the plica of Poland; the frambcesia of Africa; and the ele- phantiasis of certain regions of the world. The eoxiling causes may be either external or internal. The external exciting causes are local irritants of various kinds, fluid, solid or gaseous: for example, moisture, dust, heat as of the sun or fire, friction, chemical substances or chemical vapours, parasitic animals such as the acarus, pediculus, cimex, &c., the extremes of heat and cold. Internal exciting causes present themselves to us either as an unknown influence creating a disposition or diathesis, such as that cause, whether present in the blood, in the nervous system, or in the tissues, which gives rise to alphos, lupus, scrofula,cheloides, or elephantiasis; or certain specific causes, recognised as blood poisons, for example, the specific poison of syphilis, or the specific poisons of the eruptive or zymotic fevers. Prognosis.—Diseases of the skin are very rarely fatal; they have a natural tendency to as- sume a chronic character; but, eventually, in a longer or shorter space of time, their cure ia ac- complished. The diseases most apt to take on a grave character and terminate fatally, are such as are the consequence of a cachectic and exhausted state of the constitution, for example, the worst forms of pemphigus and purpura. Anthrax, also, is occasionally fatal, from the intense irritation and prostrating influence which it exerts upon the nervous system. The hereditary diseases, ich- thyosis, alphos and psoriasis are among the most chronic of cutaneous affections. Cheloides is chronic, and little amenable to treatment; other diseases of a specially chronic nature are, acne, sycosis and lupus. Of the chronic diseases, some have a tendency to persist for a life-time, for example, ichthyosis and psoriasis; but, nevertheless, yield gradually to a well-directed treatment, and even- tually get well. Alphos may be equally perma- nent, although not equally curable; but, commonly, it has its periods of exacerbation and dispersion, and, although it may be removed entirely by medical treatment, it is its nature to return; it may be removed; sometimes it may never return, but it cannot therefore be said to be cured. Acna is a disease of defective mitrition of the skin, depending on defective vitality of the general system, and the acquisition of power by the gene- ral system brings with it a natural cure of the disorder. Few diseases of the skin are, however, purely constitutional; the greater part are of a mixed nature, constitutional and local, while some are almost entirely local; and, in proportion to the simple local nature of the disease, is the facility of removing it. Molluscum contagiosum, folli- cular epithelioma and verrucse are local diseases, and one touch with a concentrated solution of potash suffices for their cure. ■ In eczema, it is not uncommon to find the eczematous inflammation pervading more or less of the mucous membrane of the body as well as the skin; it may be the alimentary mucous mem- brane, it may be the pulmonary mucous mem- brane; and it is also to be observed that ameliora- tion of the state of the skin is apt to be attended with an increase of congestion of the mucous membrane, and vice versa. Now, this is a case of some gravity, and is to be dealt with cautiously; and our efforts must be directed to the removal of the causa morhi by restoring the natural healthy functions of the body without too speedily check- ing the inflammation and secretion of the skin, which in this instance performs a derivative ac- tion. When a causa morhi is present in the economy, accidental circumstances generally de- termine the seat of its operation; it may be a weakened internal organ, perhaps a vital organ, or it may be the cutaneous tissue ; in such a case, the safety of the patient may turn upon nature's selection, and if that selection be the skin, we are bound to admit the conclusion that, at least, the skin is the safest locality for its evolution. In this way, cutaneous diseases are sometimes deri- vative; and a too sudden cure of an apparently local affection, might impress upon thi causa morhi the necessity of seeking a field of operation in an organ more important to the comfort and perhaps to the life of the patient. Among the active causes of cutaneous disorder, is a reflex irritation from an internal organ in a state of disease. And the only safe cure for our patient will be one, which, by removing the in- ternal cause, leaves nothing but the cutaneous irri- tation to be conquered. Not unfrequently the local affection is nearly or wholly independent of con- stitutional origin, and then it may be cured imme- diately without any doubtful retrospect. And the same may be said, when the cutaneous disease is the cause of an internal irritation, which it serves to perpetuate and maintain. Careful reflection on the nature of cutaneous diseases, has led us to the unalterable conclusion that the doctrines of Abernethy in reference to the constitutional origin of local diseases, and especially the application of those doctrines to the manifestation and maintenance of affections of the skin, cannot too steadily be borne in mind. We may, and we ought, to avail ourselves of every contrivance whicli can improve the condition of the local afi'ection, par sc; but wo ought, at the same time, never for one moment to forget the dependence of the health and vitality of the part upun the general health aiul vitality of the whole.' TuK.vTMiiNT,—The treatment of diseases of tlio