]ant influence of the hypocliloride of aulphur ointment. In ii3-pertrophic and atrophic affections, there is rarely any important disorder of the economy, and our chief dependence must be placed on local treatment. Na2vu3 hypertrophicus and the ecphy- niat;i are to be treated by ablation or caustics. Cheloraa has hitherto defied treatment excepting with iodine, and boucnemia has yielded only to ligature of the main artery of the affected part. Atrophia cutis is doubtless a neurosis, and should be treated by arsenic and local stimulants, unless any special indications, such as cellulitis, be pre- sent. Alphous qfficlions, represented by alphos, the lepra vulgaris of Willan, the psoriasis of the Ger- man and French school, being independent of any known constitutional cause, might be supposed to be beyond the reach of constitutional remedies; nevertheless experience has proved that the erup- tion yields pretty certainly to an arsenical course of some months' duration, and has also been suc- cessfully treated from time to time with liquor pntassK, tincture of cantharides, tar in capsules or pills, and decoctions of dulcamara and bardanum. The dose of arsenic is five minims, to be taken three times a-day, with meals, and with the usual precautions, and after a few weeks the dose maj' be raised to six and seven minims, but always closely watched. The local treatment which is most successful, is that practised by Hebra, namely friction with soap and flannel with a view to remove the scales, and the subsequent application of a tincture of tar and soap, or a saturated solu- tion of the sulphuret of calcium. The soap fric- tions and stimulant applications must be continued daily, unless an excess of irritation be created, until the local congestion and infiltration are re- moved. Strumous affections call for a constitutional treat- ment to correct the morbid diathesis, as well as for local treatment to promote a more healthy nutritive action in the skin. The special remedies for the strumous diathesis are iodine, cod-liver oil, phosphorus, and chalybeates, conjoined with gene- ral tonics, a tonic regimen and sound hygienic con- ditions. The local treatment for scrofuloderma is chiefly tincture of iodine, and for the various forms of lupus, stimulant applications and escharotics; in lupus erythematosus, a strong potash solution, iodized glycerine, or the iodide of sulphur oint- ment; in lupus non exedens, caustic potash, or acid nitrate of mercury; and in lupus exedens, caustic potash, nitrate of silver, or acid nitrate of mercury. Carcinoma of the skin, beginning in a sebaceous gland, or in the parietes of a follicle, and forming a small tubercle, should be destroyed as early as possible by potassa fusa; at a late period it escapes control, and then can be treated only with ordinary expectant remedies. The iyinotin affections are omitted from this article, as being in their nature fevers, and not be- longing strictly to diseases of the skin; neverthe- less, it may be well to register in this place the almost specific power of the sesquicarbonate of am- monia in the treatment of rubeola and scarlatina; tlie importance in these affections of inunctions with lard, and the equal importance of an external application in variola, which shall exclude the atmosphere, and, if possible, the ligiit. The prc- SKIN, DISE.\SES OF. £99 parations usually employed for this purpose, are ointments of mercury, or mercurial plaster, which are open to the objection of exciting ptyalism; lard inspissated with charcoal, starch, or chalk might answer the purpose equally well. Other prepara- tions of a non-mercurial nature have been sug- gested, but none possess that amount of simplicity of composition and application which is calculated to give them a standard place among therapeutical remedies. The best contrivance at present known for the treatment of variola is the permanent hot bath of Hebra, noticed in connection with the treatment of burns and scalds. Syphilitic affections of the skin are essentially- constitutional, and are either the first general evi- dence of the presence of the poison in the blood, secondary; or they may occur at a later period of life, years after the original inoculation, with or with- out intermediate or transitional appearances of the disease to connect it with the primary contagion, tertiary. Hence the treatment of syphilodennata must be chiefly constitutional; nevertheless, in the more distant and tertiary form of the disease, local treatment is of much importance ; and at still later periods, local treatment may be relied upon for the cure of the eruption, without any constitutional treatment whatsoever. The constitutional reme- dies applicable to syphilodermata, are the iodide or bromide of potassium, with the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, aided by the mildest form of mer- curial, the Plummer's pill, in the secondary erup- tions; and the bichloride of mercury, syrup of the iodide of iron and cod-liver oil in the tertiary eruptions. The proto-ioduret of mercury is also a valuable remedy, both in the secondary and in the tertiary disease, but chiefly in the former. Lo- cally, we shall derive benefit from the mercurial ointments and mercurial plaster, as also from the use of water dressing and opiate lotions. In the use of both the iodide of potassium and mercurj', it is to be remembered that the constitution quickly becomes accustomed to the remedy, and it is there- fore necessary to augment the dose every ten days. Another remedy of great value in the syphi- lodermata, and one which succeeds when all others have failed, is the so-called Zittmann treatment. The leprous affections, typified by elephantiasis, the ancient lepra, are examples of disease of the blood and of the nervous system, the former evincing itself in the formation of tubercles and ulceration, the latter in atrophy and paralysis. Danielssen and Boeck, to whom Europe is in- debted for their careful researches into this malady, place most confidence in abstraction of blood from the region of the spine, and the in- ternal administration of arsenic. We have em- ployed iodine, arsenic, the iodide of iron, the liquor hydriodatis hydrargyri ot ar>enici, cod- liver oil, bichloride of mercury with bark, sulphur, the oil of the chaoul moogra, and the hydrocotyle asiatica, but with no satisfactory result. The local treatment should be of a nature to strengthen the skin b}' mild stimu- lation, and at the same time modify its torpid action, namely, by means of frictions with sulphur and juniper tar soap, with the sulphuro-alkaline ointment, with iodine ointment, with the iodu- retted glycerine, the juniper tar liniment, and the saturated solution of sulphuret of calcium. Tho blotches of morphoea alba or vitiligo, which ac- company this disease, may be stimulated to a moro