1 [The decoction of Uva Urs'x mny be prescribed with advantage iii cases of catairhus vesica;, especially in the chronic stages of that complaint and wlien no active inHammation is present. It is astringent and tonic in its action, but the alteration which it produces is slow, and it requires therefore to be continued for a considerable period.] UVULA. The uvula is subject to several kinds of enlargement, in which it becomes both longer and more bulky than natural, or is simply lengthened. In consequence of such changes, it becomes troublesome in deglutition and speaking, and causes a disagreeable tickling at the root of the tongue, frequent retchings, and annoying cough. When things have attained this state, and tonic medicines, combined with the application of local astringents, or of the solid nitrate of silver, have proved ineffectual, as is most frequently the case, the only plan of relief consists in amputating a portion of the uvula with a pair of scissors. I litely amputated a gentleman's uvula on account of an obstinate and deep ulceration, extending nearly through its root, and producing a lateral displacement of the part, attended with a consider- able degree of irritation and annoyance. The bleeding is usually trifling, and beyond a slight soreness for a few days, the operation is attended with no inconvenience to the patient. VAGINA, FISTULA OF.—See Recto-Va- ginal Fistula, and Vesico Vaginal Fistula. VAGINA, IMPERFORATE, Atresia of. [Atresia (from d priv. and rprja-is, a perfora- tion, hole) of the genital canal is congenital or acquired. The congenital conditions con- sist in abnormal formation, from imperfect or defective or excessive development. Imperfora- tion of the hymen is met with under various conditions : sometimes it ia complete ; some- times tiiere are one or more small openings; sometimes, although perforated, the hymen is so thick and resisting as to oppose all sexual at- tempts. Imperforation of the vagina may be due to fusion of the labia minora. The vagina may be closed by a transverse septum at any depth ; sometimes two or more septa exist, forming two or more compartments (Danyau, Ne'laton). If imperforate hymen is discovered soon after birth, it is well to divide it at once. A very moderate incision is enough. Puech distinguishes three kinds of closure of the vulva: 1. adhesion of the labia majora, always of accidental origin, the result of inflammation or injury ; 2. adhesion of the labia minora, also the re- sult of accident, and like the first chiefly distress- ing from impediment to micturition ; 3, hymeneal atresia, the most connnon. generally congenital. It may come under notice before puberty from the Collection of mucus in the vagina causing disten- sion, or it may be detected soon after birth. I have several times incised an imperforate hymen in infants. The closure of the vagina may be con- genital or accidental. The congenital kinds may be formed by transverse membranous septa com- posed of two folds of mucous membrane with some connective tissue or muscular Hbres between. In some cases, imperforation of the cervix uteri com- plicates that of the vagina. The accidental closure of the vagina is far more frequent; it is alniost always the consequence of accidental contraction nfter injury, or inHammation. The walls cohere; the vagina is more or less perfectly ohliterat(rd. VAGINA, IMPERFORATE. (395 True occlusion or atresia is commonly the result of a cicatricial process following upon ulceration, granulation, or laceration of the os uteri. The most frequent cause is laceration or sloughing, aris- ing from severe labour with or without instru- mental aid. It has resulted from cauterisation of the OS nteri with potassa fusa ; from cicatrisation following inflammation in small-po.x, scarlatina, typhoid; nfter auiputation of the cervix, for want of sufficient care to maintain the patency of the canal during cicatrisation ; also from advancing senile atrophy, which produces a kind of con- centric obliteration of the os. Rokitansky de- scribes this last form. I have seen many examples of it. Klob describes a peculiar form of oblitera- tion of the 08 externum as following upon pro- lapsus with inversion of the vagina ; in these cases a small pit alone shows the seat of the os, and the atresia is caused by a milk-white mem- brane formed of several layers of vaginal epithe- lium. • CI osure of the zilerus most frequently takes place at the 03 internum or os externum. It may be the result of extrinsic causes ; as from external pressure by tumors ; from flexions of the uterus, more especially finm bejiding of the body forwards upon the neck so as to form an acute angle at the seat of flexion ; from tumefaction of the mucous membrane, as from catarrhal or other inflamma- tion ; from the growth of cancerous or fibroid tumor in the substance of the neck; from plugging by clots, membranous substances, or pscudoplas- mata. These conditions may be diagnosed irnm true^ atresia, and sometimes may be relieved by- passing the uterine sound. Another form of closure is due to the sealing of the OS externum or internum by a false membrane, as described by Najgele. This has'been ob served to take place during pregnancy, so that at the time of labour, no os uteri could be felt. Absence of uterus, according to Kussmaul, is very rarely complete. Even when exploration ia made by finger in rectum and sound in bladder, a rudimentary uterus may evade detection by slip- ping on one side. In one case (Perkins, by How- ship) the uterus containing two pounds of blood was found behind the closed vagina. Even on dissection, unless very carefully conducted, a rudimentary uterus may escape detection. An apparently absent vagina is no proof of absent uterus. An artificial route has several times been made to the distended uterus. (Amussat.) In some of these cases of absent vagina the os uteri has opened into the rectum or urethra, and these canals being used by the intro- mittent organ, impregnation has occurred. Accord- nig to Dr. Oldham there ia in many cases of chisure or malformation of the vagina, an oiiginul dilatation of the urethra, a circumstance which has embarrassed the examining surgeon. This enlarge- ment of the urethra has been commonly supposed to be the result of accidental or voluntary substitu- tion of the urethra as a copulative mgan ; but Dr. Oldham no doubt is right in recognising it as pre- existing and independent of this use. Dr. Routh related n case {Ohstclrical Tram. 18/0) confir- matory of Dr. Oldham's view. It may, however be due in some cases to surgical examination. ' Cases have been observed of two-horned or double uteri, in which one uterus has been ocdiided and becoiiK' the seat of retained menstrual Ihii,!