superior punctum to prevent the fluid from es- caping through it. With his finger, lie also occa- sionally compressed the hxchr^'mnl sac, in order to assist in propelling the water down into the nose. He sometimes used the injection thrice a daj', though, in general, less frequently. " I in general begin the treatment by injecting some warm water through the inferior punctum lachryraale, and I repeat the operation four or five days in succession. If, in this space of time, none of the water pass through the duct into the nose, and if the watering of the eye continue as troublesome as it was before the injection was employed, I usually open the angular vein, or direct a leech to be applied near the lachrymal sac ; adding here a caution, that the leech be not suffered to fix on either of the eyelids, lest it pro- duce an extravasation of blood in the adjacent cells. About the same time that blood is taken away in the neighbourhood of the eye, I usually vary the injection, and try the effects either of a ■weak vitriolic, or anodyne, lotion. In some in- stances, also, when I have found it impossible, after several attempts, to inject any part of the liquid through the duct, I have introduced a golden probe, about the size of a bristle, through the superior punctum lachrymale, and attending to the direction of the duct, have insinuated its exlremity through the obstruction, and conveyed it fully into the nose ; immediately after which I have found, that a liquid injected through the inferior punctum, has passed without any diffi- culty : and by repeating these operations for a few successive days, I have at length established the freedom of the passage, and completed the cure. In other instances, I have recommended a strongly stimulating sternutatory to be snuffed up the nose, about an hour before "the time of the patient's going to rest, which, by exciting a large discharge from the Schneiderian membrane, has sometimes also greatly contributed to open the obstruction in the nasal duct." When the discliarge was fetid, Mr. Ware some- times found that the zinc lotion, injected into the sac, quickly corrected the quality of the matter. In a subsequent tract, Mr. Ware observes, that if, after "about a week or ten daj's, there be not some perceptible advance towards a cure, or if, from the long continuance of the obstruction, there be reason to fear, that it is too firmly fixed to yield to this easy mode of treatment, I do not hesitate to propose the operation which is now to be described. The only persons, with respect to whom I entertain any doubts as to the propriety of this opinion are infants. In such subjects, I always think it advisable to postpone the operation, unless the symptoms be particularly urgent, until they are eight or nine years old. "If the disease has not occasioned an aperture in the lachrymal sac, or if this aperture be not situated m a right line with the longitudinal di- rection of the nasal duct, a puncture should be made into the sac, at a small distance from the internal juncture of the palpcbra;, and nearly in a line drawn horizontally from this juncture to- wards the nose, with a very narrow spear-pointed lancet. The blunt end of a silver probe, of a size rather smaller than the probes that are com- monly used by surgeons, should then be intro- duced through the wound, and gently, but steadily, I'e piislied on in the direction of the nasal duct LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. . igg with a force sufficient to overcome the obstruction in this canal, and until there is reason to believe that It has freely entered into the cavity of the nose. The position of the probe, when thus intro- duced, will be nearly perpendicular : its side will touch the upper edge of the orbit ; and the space between its bulbous end in the nose and the wound in the skin, will usually be found, in a full-grown person, to be about an inch and a quarter, or an inch and three eighths. The probe is then to be withdrawn, and a silver style of a size nearly simi- lar to that of the probe, but rather smaller, about an inch and three-eighths in length, with a flat head like that of a nail, but placed obliquely, that it may sit close on the skin, is to be introduced through the duct, in place of the probe, and to be left constantly in it. For the first day or two after the style has been introduced, it is sometimes ad- visable to wash the ej^e with a weak saturnine lotion, in order to obviate any tendency to inflam- mation which may have been excited by the oper- ation ; but this in general is so slight, that I have rarely had occasion to use any application to re- move it. The style should be withdrawn once every day for about a week, and afterwards every second or third day. Some warm water should each time be injected through the duel; into the nose, and the instrument be afterwards replaced in the same manner as before. I formerly used to cover the head of the style with a piece of adhe- sive plaster spread on black silk, but have of late obviated the necessity for applying any plaster by blackening the head of the style with sealing wax. On first trying this method, Mr. Ware did not expect any relief, till the style was left off. How- ever, he found, that the watering of the eye ceased as soon as the style had been introduced, and the sight became proportionably more useful and strong. The wound was only just large enough to admit the end of the probe or style ; and this soon became a fistulous orifice, through which the style could be passed without pain. Some, finding no inconvenience from the style, and being afraid to leave it off, wear it for years ; many others disuse it in about a month, or six weeks, and continue quite well. The ulcerations sometimes existing over the lachrymal sac, com- monly heal, as soon as the tears can pass down into the nose ; but Mr. Ware mentions two in- stances, in which such sores did not heal until bark and small doses of the bichloride of mercuiy, had been administered. ' Mr. Travel's is strongly disposed to doubt, whe- ther any permanent benefit was ever derived from letting the style remain in the passage. When an abscess over the sac has been opened, this gentle- man, instead of the introduction of a style into the ductus nasalis, recommends simply the exa- mination of the duct with a fine probe. 'If the probe passes without resistance into the nose the case requires no further operative treatment ; the integument recovers its lioalthy condition under an emollient application ; the discharge gradually diminishes and the wound heals. If, on the other hand, upon examination with the probe, introduced through the wound into the sac, resistance is of- fered to its passage into tiie nose, no more favour- able opportunity will bo presented for overcoming such resistance. This, therefore, should bo accom-