TUMOR. 801 h.wing been situated on the nrm. Clicselden had tu-ice met with a little tumor of about tlie size of a pea, under the skin covering the tibia, attended V itii excessive pain, and remarkably hard. The disease was cured by extirpation. {Ar,at. ed. 10. p. 136.) The same disease had been frequently seen by Camper, who represents it as situated with- in the tunic of the nerves. {Demonstr. Anat. Pathol. lib. i. p. 11.) Chauasier also describes this sort of swelling as most frequent in the lower extremities, though he had seen it on the back, and as placed in the course of a nerve, and connected, with its filaments. In Mr. Liston's museum, there is in- deed a specimen, which corresponds to these accounts. On the other hand. Sir Astley Cooper and Baron Dupuytren concur in the statement, that these painful subcutaneous tubercles are not thus directly connected with the nerves. "I have (says the latter) dissected many in the dead sub- ject with the most minute care; and in order to learn their nature more certainly, I have, in extir- pating them, removed, at the same time, a consi- derable quantity of cellular tissue, but never found the smallest nervous filament adhering to their surface. Their texture is evidently fibro-cellular rather albuminous, and, in time, they become scirrhous." Amongst other particulars he mentions, that, though they are mostly situated in the sub- cutaneous, or subaponeurotic cellular tissue, they are sometimes noticed elsewhere; and he had seen them ia the breast, scrotum, back and face. There are rarely more than one in the same individual. I have now(1838) a male patient at the Blooms- bury Dispensary, who has a painful tubercle of this description close to the nipple. Dupuytren represents this kind of little tumor as being more common in women than men, and between the ages of 3.5 and 60, than at an earlier period of life. In order to prove further that the swelling is not a disease of a nerve, he relates a case, in which a surgeon divided the infra-orbitary nerve for a sup- posed neuralgic affection of the face; but, instead of being cured by this measure, the disorder be- came much worse. Dupuytren detected a painful subcutaneous tubercle in the cheek, removed it by excision, and the patient was immediately cured. "It is manifest (says he) that if the tubercle had been formed of the nervous filaments of this branch of the fifth pair, or had been specially applied to it, the division of the nerve would instantly have put a stop to the pain; on the contrary, it continued, grew more severe, and onlj' terminated with the existence of the tumor." In another case related by Dupuytren,i the tubercle did not become painful till after a lapse of seventeen years. He asks, could this have happened had it been formed in the track or substance of a nerve? In another instance, the tubercle was onl)' painful when pressed, and the pain did not extend towards the fingers, but the trunk. He gives an instance, in which one was occasioned on a shoemaker's finger, by the prick of an awl, (See Dupuytren, Clin, chir.y t. i. art. 1 f!.) Ti'MOHS, Encysted. These, which are com- monly named wens, consist of a cyst, which isfilled with different substances. "When the contained matter is fatty, the swelling is termed a staUoma; when somewhat like honey, rneliccris; when like pap. atheroma. These are the three species into which writers usually divide encysted tumors. ITcnvever, some of these swellings do not conform vol.. II. to either of the above distinctions, as their contents are subject to very great variety indeed, and are occasionally of an earthj', bony, or hurny nature. Some encysted tumors of the latter description occasionally burst, and assume the appearance of horns, by the gradual projection of the matter ."iecreted within their cysts. (See Sir Everard Homn's 0!'S. on the growth of horny Ecccresmices, in Phil. Trans, for 1701.) In he year (1824) I attended, with Mr. Drew of Gower-street, a medi- cal gentleman, from whose nates I removed a swelling of this nature, which had become very troublesome, in consequence of its pressure making the parts around its base inflame. It had been cut many years ago by another surgeon, but grew again. At present (18.38), there is no appearance of its reproduction, against which I guarded by carrying the incisions very deeply. I saw an ex- crescence of this kind removed some years ago from the scrotum of a man in St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Sir James Earle performed the opera- tion; and if I am not mistaken, the preparation of the disease is now in the museum of that Institu- tion. But, still more remarkable specimens of such excrescences are preserved in the Anatomical Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital; one in parti- cular, which resembles a ram's horn in shape, and was removed from a gardener's head, by Dr. Roots, of Kingston. A further account of the case is given in Rees's Cyclopaedia, article Horny Excre- scence. I suppose ever}'body in London has seen in the British Museum the horn deposited there as a cu- riosity, and which, with anotlier of the same size, grew upon the head of a human subject. What is equally curious, hairs are not unfrequently found growing in the cavities of encysted tumors {DeJpech, Precis des Mai. chir., t. iii. p. 412); and even teeth, more or less perfectly formed, have been strangely met with in the same situations. An interesting specimen of the latter occurrence, ill a double encysted tumor in the orbit, was pub- lished some time ago by my friend Mr. Barnes, of Exeter. (See i\red. Chir. Trans., vol. iv. p. 316.) It is observed by Sir Astley Cooper, that it is when encysted tumors are situated upon the temple, and near the eyebrows, and other hairy parts, that they sometimes contain hairs; these " have no bulbs, nor canal, and differ therefore from those which are produced on surfaces of the body, which naturally form hair." In sheep, the cysts some- times contain wool. {Suryical Essays, part ii. p. 233.) The manner in which these horny ex- crescences are produced ia stated to be as follows : " The horn begins to grow from the open surface of the cyst; at first it is soft, but soon acquires con- siderable hardness; at first, it is pliant, but after a few weeks, it assumes the character of horn." (Vol. cit. p. 235 ; see also Home, in Phil. Trans, for 17,')1.) Encysted tumors are generally of a roundish shape, and more elastic than the generality of solid swellings. However, the latter circumstance depe nds very much upon the nature of their con- tents, and the thickness of their cysts. So far as my observation extends, encysted tumors form more frequently on the head than any other part; but they are very frequently met with in all situ- ations under the integuments, and sometimes in deeper places. Encysted tunnu's are likewise ol'ten seen on the cyelid.s. They nro in general 3 F