(544 .SUPPURATION miiig flakes. These and other distinctions between pus and mucus are not however deemed of much importance at the present day, when pus is no lonijer regarded as a sure proof of the existence of ulceration. Pus does not irritate the particular surface which secretes it, though it may be very irritatmg to any other. Hence no suppurating surface of any specific kind can be kept up by its own mat- ter: if this had not been the case, no sore ot a specific qualitv, or producing matter of an irritat- ing kind, could ever have been healed. This is similar to every other secretion of stimulating iluids, as the bile, tears, &c., which fluids do not stimulate their own glands, or ducts, but are ca- pable of stimulating any other part of the body. (^Hunter.) Whenever disease attacks either the suppurating surface or the constitution, the production of true pus ceases, and the fluid becomes changed. In general, it becomes fetid, thinner, and more trans- parent, and pirtakes more of the nature of the blood, as is the case with most other secretions under siniila'r circumstances.—Sanies is the term usually applied by surgeons to pus in this degenerated state. This unhealthy sort of matter has more of the serum, and frequently more of the coagulating lymph in it, and less of the combination, which renders it coagulable by a solution of muriate of ammonia. It has also a greater proportion of the extraneous parts of the blood, which are soluble in water, such as salts; and it has a greater ten- dency than true pus to become putrid. The secretion of pus is often suspended in fevers: while the constitution is thus disturbed, a sore will frequently appear almost dried up ; but, on the subsidence of the fever, its surface will again secrete pus in abundance. This is a fact which every young dresser must have noticed, A similar check to the secretion of pus is also pro- duced when a sore, or the parts immediately around it, are attacked by fresh inflammation. At the same time the pus is changed in its qua- lities, for it becomes a thin ichor, or a red fluid, composed of senim and red particles. (See A. Cooper's Lectures, vol. i. p. 123.) The qua'ities of pus, in fact, vary with every change m the state of the health and constitution, and, like other se- cretions, this fluid is altered by eveo'thmg which excites, depresses, or deranges the system._ The properties of pus in specific and infectious diseases are not indicated by any particularity in its appear- ance, nor has chemical analysis thrown any light upon this part of the subject. The pus of small- pox and of a venereal ulcer difi'ers in no re- spect in its physical and chemical properties from that of a phlegmonous abscess. The nature of such pus can only be known by its action on the living body. . When the vessels lo-^e the power of producing good pus, they also lose more or less the power ol forming granulations. This may depend on some deviation from the due structure and action, which such vessels should possess, in order to be qualified for the performance of these two operations. Pus has been suspected to have a great ten- dency to putrefaction; but this is not the case with pure pus, which, when first discharged from an abscess, is perfectly sweet. But, if the abscefs has any communication with the air, while th miuicr is confined in it; or if the collection ha been so near the colon, or rectum, as to have been infected by the fajces, then the matter will quickly become putrid. When blood is Wended with pus; wheo sloughs are mixed with it; when the parts forming the seat of the abscess are in a gangrenous state from an erysipelatous affection, the matter has a greater tendency to putrefy than the pure pus discharged from sound abscesses or healing sores. Pure matter, though easily rendered sus- ceptible of change, by extraneous additions, is in its own nature tolerably uniform and immutable. It appears so unchangeable, that we find it re- tained in an abscess for weeks, without having un- dergone any alteration. These qualities, however, only belong to perfect pus. If a healthy sore in- flames, the matter now produced from it, though unmixed with extravasated blood, or dead solids, becomes much sooner putrid, and more irritating, than the discharge formed before this alteration of the ulcer. (Hunler.) In the preceding paragraph it is stated that matter frequently remains unchanged in abscesses for weeks. This expression is not strictly correct; for, inasmuch as the cysts of abscesses are ab- sorbing, as well as secreting surfaces, there must . be a continual mutation going on in the contained matter. In the words of one of the most eminent sur- geons of modern times : " the functions of the proper membrane of an abscess are not restricted to containing the pus and forming a boundary for it in the midst of the adjacent textures. By means of the very active absorption and exhalation, which take place upon its surface, its contents are incessantly undergoing renewal, and its qualities modified, according to the different degrees of stimulation which it receives. An abscess is not altogether removed from the influence of life; on the°contrarv, it participates in it, though feebly and obscurely, like all other fluids collected in organic receptacles. It is through the medium of the living cyst that, in consequence of excite- ment of all kinds, the fluid of abscesses is seen to augment, or diminish in quantity, to become thicker or thinner, and often to be reached by sub- stances introduced by the regular action of the ab- sorbents, or by direct injection into the sanguife- rous system. It is because the cysts of abscesses are connected by close sympathies with the princi- pal centres of our organisation, that they rapidly leel the effects of the least stimulation of the viscera, and that medicines, internally exhibited, are some- times so efficacious in bringing about the absorption of pus The cyst of an abscess is its most impor- tant part: it is a special organ, of new formation, which takes rank, as it were, in the living economy, and is to be classed with those parts of it whose relations are the most conspicuous ""d the most active." (See Dupuytrcn, in Diet, da Med. ei ae *^'when delAone, or other extraneous bodie.s are present, and keep up irritation, or when blood becomes mixed with the P«ndent matter the dis- charge is always fetid and offensive. Ihis sUte of it is one mark of the presence of carious or dead '"'The discharge of an unhealthy sore blnckcns silver probes and preparations of load. i h"S e feet is imputed by Dr. Crawford to the snlphu e^ ed hvdroo-en ca^ generated in such m-i«<'r- ' ^Z:.oI\kA. year 1790, p. MS.) Further