URETHRA UNGUENTUM VERATRI^.—R Veratrite gr. viij. Adipis gj.—01. Oliva; Sss. Put the vera- tria first with the oil, then mix with the lard.— Veratiia ointment was much commended by Dr. TurnbuU for neuralgia, dropsy, paralysis, rheu- matism, &c.; and is employed with different pro- portions of the veratria in different cases. In neuralgic affections, sometimes it is applied at once in a stronger form, but, in the generality of cases, eight gr. to each ounce of lard are sufficient to "begin with. UNGUENTUM ZINCI.—R Zinci Oxydi gr. Ltxx. Ad ipis Benzoataj 5j. Misce.—An as- tringent application, the uses of which are familiarly known. URETHRA,—[Anatomical characters of the male urethra. Tlie length of this canal in the adult has been differently stated, for it varies con- siderably in different subjects, as it does also in the same individual under different circumstances, since the parts are exceedingly extensible, and may be readily made to correspond to any given measurement. Thus, after death, the parts being removed from the body and moderately extended, the average result of the measurements made by the writer in sixteen adult bodies was as follows : Total length, from anterior border of uvula vesica; to meatus urinaiius externus 8^ inches. Length of spongy portion , . • G-J- „ ), meiiibianous ditto . • 4 .. „ prosiaic ditto 821 inches. The greatest measurement was 9 inches, the smallest 7f inches. Of the sixteen, no less than 10 presented measurements which did not deviate more than a quarter of an inch from the averiige, and ranging within fths of an inch only ; that is to say, between ^\ and <Jf inches inclusive. Mr. Briggs, formerly of the Lock Hospital, made numerous investigations upon the living subject, and found the average length of the urethra to be about 7;]- to 7f inches. I have em- braced many opportunities of testing his method, and believe his observations to have been in the main correct. It will therefore be borne in mind that these two measurements of 7^ inches and of 8A inches respectively relate to the average length of the iirethra in the two conditions of life and death. That this difference exists it will be important to recollect, since all accurate researches into the pathological anatomy of stricture are, of necessity, confined to an observation of the parts ufier death, while, in relation to treatment, the measurement durimj life is that which alone must be remem- bered.] Other authors have variously estimated the dif- ferent divisions of the urethra. Thus, the length of the prostatic part is regarded as measuring from fifteen to eighteen lines {lioijer); twelve to fifteen {P/iil/ips) ; six to ten {Maljaiyne) ; twelve to fifteen (Ditcump) ; eight to eleven (Lis/rajic); that of the membranous, or muscular portion, from five to eight lines {Mulgaiijiie) ; nine to ten {Ducawp); about twelve {hoyer) ; and seven to eleven (Lisfninc). "Its extent is not the same superiorly as inferiority. Here it is very short, limited in front by the posterior extremity of the hulb, and behind by the prostate ; so that supe- riorly its length is about an inch, and inferiorly, four or live lines " {PldUips). [Next, as to the width of the passage. This it is difficult to reduce to figures, from its natural dilatability in the healthy condition. Anatomists have stated three, four, or five lines as approxima- tive measurements. Surgeons have recorded the passage of calculi through it of three and a half to four lines in diameter, which must of course indi- cate the amount of extensibility enjoyed by the narroicest portions of the canal. The mucous membrane after death is found lying in long, but minute and narrow folds, which are readily oblite- rated by stretching it in a transverse direction, when laid open, to about double its natural width. The important point is, that, relatively to each other, different parts of the canal bear certain con- stant proportions. For example, the external meatus itself is the smallest, except when, as rery rarely happens, a congenital contraction exists about a quarter or half an inch from the extremity, and of course within view ; next is the point of junction between the membranous portion and the bulb ; while the centre of the prostatic portion, and the sinus of the bulb, are the largest. But it should be remembered that the walls of the pas- sage are closely applied to each other in a state of inaction, so that the diameter is only calculable when distension occurs from some cause; and as this has been seen to correspond, within certain limits, to the amount of pressure exerted upon them, any statement respecting it must be liable to some modification. Indeed, the question of the diameter of the urethra must be considered as re- solving itself, to a certain extent, into tlie measure of its capability of being extended, and this is of greater practical import than the mere width of its mucous membrane when slit up after death. In regard to the course or direction of the canal, the spongy portion is the most movable part; Its anterior half at least, taking any direction (in the flaccid condition of the penis), which gravity or applied force may give it. As it approaches the pubes, it becomes more fixed ; the penis being here suspended by a ligament, and the crura or bases of the cavernous bodies which form it being at- tached to the pubic rami, while the bulb is closely connected to the deep perineal fascia. The canal now curves to pass beneath the pubic symphysis, and will follow a course varying slightly in direc- tion, according as it lies nearer to, or more distant from, that point: the extreme variations which I have noticed in adults, amounting to about a quarter of an inch, that is to say, the urethra per- forates the fascia at a distance below the pubic arch, which varies in different subjects from seven- eighths of an inch to one inch and an eighth. 'J'he membranous portion in the erect position of the bodj', ascends with a slight curve, which direction is continued through the prostate, until at last the course of the urethra into the bladder is almost vertically upwards. The practical points to be noted, are—First: That the lowest part of the passage in the upright position of the body is that part which is in con- tact with the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia ; and that the floor at this point forms, to some extent, a fulcrum upon which the instrument turns, when its handle is depressed for the purpose of carrying the point onwards into the bladder. Kecondly; respecting the iiillucncc of the perineal