410 OVARIOTOMY. length of a substance thicker than any jelly, or rather like glue that is fresh-made and hung out to dry; the breadth of it was above ten inches. This was followed by nine full quarts of such matter as I have met with in steatomatous and atheromatous tumors, with several hydatids of various sizes, containing a yellow serum, the least of them bigger than an orange, with several large pieces of membranes, which seemed to be parts of the distended ovary. Then I squeezed out all I could, and stitched up the wound m three places, almost equidistant. The lower part of the wound was kept open b^ a small tent. Some serosity discharged from it for four or five days. The wound was covered in its whole length with a pledget spread with some home-made balsam, over that several compresses dipped in warm brandy, then several towels: all these dressings were fas tened by swathing her round the body. An ano- dyne was given several times a day. The next morning the patient was found much refreshed by a good night's rest, the first she enjoyed for the three months past. After three weeks she was able to sit outdoors, wrapped up ni blankets, superintending her farm-labourers. She recovered, and lived in perfect health from that time till October 1717, when slie died after ten days' illness." . ^ tt Although this isolated case of Dr. Houstoun undoubtedly strengthens the claim of British surgery to the honour of originally practising ovariotomy, it will hardly deprive Dr. McDowell of his undeniable merit of having been the first who, guided by scientific principles, enriched modern surgery with the operation. He followed up his first case by others. He performed the operation thirteen times altogether between 1809 and his death in 1830. The precise number of deaths cannot be ascertained, but of eight cures there can be no doubt. McDowell's successes were followed up by other American surgeons. In 1822 Mr. Smith, of Connecticut, performed a successful operation. He removed a cyst containing six pints of fluid, through an incision five inches long. He broke down extensive adhesions between the tumor and the abdominal wall and the omentum. The wound was united by means of adhesive plaster and roller. No unfavourable symptom oc- curred until the separation of the ligature, when an abscess formed, which had to be opened. The patient, twenty-three years of age, was able to walk after three weeks, and speedily recovered. (Case oi ovarian dropsy successfully removed by a surgical operation. Edinhurgl Medical and Surgical Journal, 1822 ; and American Medical Re corder, Philadelphia, vol. v. 1822, No. 7.) In another case Smith was unable to complete the operation on account of extensive adhesions. He emptied the cyst, and the patient recovered. But the cyst filled again. (Merf. and Surg. Memoirs. p. 231.) In 1823 G. Smith removed an ovarian tumor from a negro woman, through an incision extending fiom the umbilicus to the os pubis, after previously having emptied the contents of the cyst. The peduncle was secured by a ligature. The patient recovered within twenty-five days. {North Ame- rican Medical and Surgical Journal, January, 1826.) Lizars of Edinburgh was the first to attempt ovariotomy in this country. He performed two operations in 1825, of which the first was suc- cessful, the second fatal in fifty-six hours. He opened the abdomen on two other occasions, but only to prove errors of diagnosis. Both patients recovered. The first attempt to perform ovariotomy in London was made by Dr. Granville in 1827, who operated in two cases. In one the operation was abandoned on account of the extent of the adhe- sions; the woman recovered. In the other case a fibrous tumor of the uterus, weighing eight pounds, was removed; but the patient died on the third day. The ill-success of Mr. Lizars and Dr. Granville, who both operated by the long incision, brought discredit upon the operation ; and it was not until 1836, nine years after Dr. Granville's failures, that a provincial surgeon, Mr. Jeaffreson of Fram- lingham, acted upon the suggestion of William Hunter, and performed ovariotomy by the small incision for the first time in Great Britain. A bilocular cyst was removed through an opening only an inch and a half long. The patient was alive in 18.59, was fifty-six years of age, and had given birth to one boy and three girls after the operation. In the same year (1836) another provincial surgeon, Mr.5King of Saxmundham, successfully removed an ovarian cyst through an incision only three inches long; and Mr. West, of Tonbridge, also had a successful case, the incision being only two inches long. In 1838 Mr. Crisp, of Harleston, in Suffolk, removed a multilocular cyst through an incision only one inch long. The patient lived fifteen years after the operation, and enjoyed good health. In 1839 Mr. West, of Tonbridge, had a second successful case; a singlecyst,which contained twenty- two pints of fluid, having been removed by the short incision. Mr. West also had an unsuccessful case of completed ovariotomy, and one in which thead- hesions prevented the completion of the operation. In the same year the first attempt to perform ovariotomy in a London Hospital, of which the writer has been able to find any record, was made at Guy's, by Mr. Morgan ; a small incision was made, adhesions were found, the tumor was not removed, and the patient died in twenty-four hours. , In 1840 Mr. Benjamin Phillips operated at the Marylebone Infirmary, and completed the opera- tion for the first time in London ; but the result was unsuccessful. In 1842 Dr. Clay, of Manchester, commenced his series of operations, performing ovariotomy four times, and in three out of the four with suc- cess. In 1843 he also operated four times, twice successfully. In 1843 Mr. Aston Key removed both ovaries from a patient in Guy's Hospital. His incision extended from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes, and death followed on the fourth day. Later in the same year, Mr. Bransby Cooper operated in the same hospital by the long incision, and removed a large multilocular cyst, but the patient died on the seventh day. ,.;„f„,v,Tr So that twenty-five years ago, '^lil'<J"K''''^'°t^y had been perfonued with very quahhcd success m one case in Scotland, and in at least ten cases with om^kte success by surgeons in JXllv'in'Lon it had never been performed successfullyn Lon- rlnn. It was the good fortune of Mr. W alne to