mi WOUNDS. most scrupulous adjustment of tissue to like tissue in the lips of the wound should be quickly secured and rigidly retained ; and further, that no degree of inflammation should follow by which the state of rest, so necessary to success, be disturbed. Those conditions in the constitution and habits of the patient, and in the circumstances in which he is treated which are most conducive to healthy nutrition, aid most materially the desired end. The result is most perfect, A mere line, which will shortly disappear, constitutes the only trace of tin- injury. 2. Primary adhesion. Hunter's " Union by the Adhesive Inflammation."—Here lymph is poured out between the cut surfaces (and little, if any, into the surrounding tissues), forms a connective tissue, and establishes a bond of union between them—in short, solders them together. The closer the edges of the wound are placed to one another, the narrower will the plate of interposed lymph be ; and as it is the cutaneous edge of this plate which, becoming covered with dermal tissue, con- stitutes the scar, it follows that the mark lelt ■vyill be diminished in like manner. Inflamma- tion, if at all violent, will manifestly mar the result by interfering with the perfect constitution and successful organisation of the lymph, which, in favourable circumstances, quickly becomes vascular, and may in a few days achieve a firm repair. Plere the issue is slower of attainment, and not so per- fect as in immediate union, in so far as that a scar remains, and the process is more open to accident. 3. Healing by granulation is a still less desir- able method of repair than those already described, as it is slower, less certain in its progress, and more liable to interruption, as well as being general followed by greater deformity. It consist- in the pouring out of a thin glazing of white blood corpuscles embedded in fibrine over the raw suifaces, which after an uncertain period of rest —of incubation (varying with different circum- stances, more especially with the nature and extent of the wound, and the constitution of the patient)—is followed and replaced by an effusion of lymph, which in time becomes organised. This effusion of lymph is preceded and accompanied by a determination of blood to the part. " Granula- tions" consist of small acuminated papillary suc- culent projections of vascular lymph, which may or m;iy not be accompanied by pus, i.e. by granu- lation cells, which have been rejected from the work of repair going on. In open granulating •wounds there is always pus poured^out, and the character of the fluid will vary with the health- fulness of the granulations supplying it. 4. HcaVmij by secondary adhesion consists in the union of granulating surfaces. The lips of a wound which are covered with healthy granula- tions of similar or nearly similar age, being held gently in contact, grow together—the cells on either surface adhering, and an interchange of blood-vessels taking place, so that the two lips'be come amalgamated. There must be ni> inflanmia- tion, otherwise the end will not be obtained. 5. Ilcalim/ by scabbintj is the last method of repair. This, the ordinary mode of healing in the ease of the lower animals, consists in the fornui- tion of a scab by the drying of some secretion over the wrunid, and its protection thus from the atmo-pheric air. The formation of a scar takes place beneath, always supposing that the scab is not continually displaced by renewed secretion from the wound, as when inflammation gives rise to a continued discharge of pus. In all these modes of repair, except the first, there will be rnore or less scar or cicatrix left to mark the seat of the wound, and in many cases this scar is extensive, discoloured, deformed and enduring. The cicatricial tissue has in itself the inherent property of long-continued contraction, so that all the tissues on which it acts yield in time to its power (when the cicatrix is extensive), and thus much displacement and distortion may be caused. Joints thus get fixed ; parts which are separate are approximated and united ; orifices misplaced and obstructed, and in this way the ut- most embarrassment and evil follow. Much can be done during the healing of wounds by granulation to counteract or diminish the effects of this contrac- tion; e.g. by attention to position during healing, by the use of splints and special apparatu.s, such as elastic bands, moveable appliances fitted to oppose the contraction, &c. These measures must be long employed, as the morbid tendency is very enduring. Fomentations, shampooing, exercise, help to oppose the contraction. Scars too, some- times, especially in delicate persons, long remain weak and tender, liable to erosion from slight causes, and being quickly destroyed if excited to in- flammation. Such weak cicatrices may be improved by protection, by the application of astringents, and, above all, by invigorating the patient's general health. Redundant scars traversed by thick bands of superabundant tissue, when necessary to be interfered with, may be improved by being kept moist bj' a lotion or ointment of iodide of potas- sium, or being painted with iodine, or blistered, so as to cause absorption of the excess of new material, care being taken at the same time not to excite undue inflammation and the entire destruc- tion of the tissue. Depressed and adherent cicatrices may be much improved in many cases by subcutaneous section of the adhesions, and this will be the more necessary when the scar is placed on a prominent and visible part, as tlie face. In time the intimate structure of cicatrices tends to improve, and to become more assimilated to the tissues they replace. The vitality of the new material, long depressed, mends, and it becomes less unlike the normal textures of the part in which it lies, and so less inimical in its action to the neighbouring tissues. While of lowered vitality (i.e. so long as their organisation is incom- plete), scars are very easily and quickly destroyed. Inflamniation seizing upon them rapidly ends in destructive ulceration, and, while frictidu or undue pressure very surely causes such a result, exposure to severe cold is very apt to produce a like effect. Weakl}', delicate persons, in virtue of their want of organising power, are liable to the forinati(ni of shallow weak ulcers on cicatrised surfaces. In these ulcers the edges are usually red, thin, and undermined, while the surface of the sore is covered with weak, pale, toneless granulations. Such ulcers indicate the need of invigorating remedies—country air, wine, cod-liver oil, and iron — while locallystimulants and astringents combined let best. Cicatrices are sometimes the seat of many un- easy, if not painful sensations, which cause annoy, aiice or distress to the patient. Formication, prickling, shooting or burning sensations; but