930 VENEREAL DISEASE. denic form nf sypliUis, wTierever seated, is pre- sented to us, om- first object should be to nsccrtaiii whether it spread by ulceration or slough ; and, if by slough, the colour of the slough. If that colour be white, if the disease be making a rapid progress in parts of much importance, and, above all, if the patient be not in a state of mercurial ex- citement, or cachexia, produced by the irregular, or injudicious employment of mercury, which is rot infrequently the case, we may instantly em- ploy this medicine, not only by local fumigation, but also at the same time, in any other manner the case mav dictate, so as to bring the pa- tient, as rapidly as possible, under its constitu- tional influence; and this practice should be adopted, whether there be much inflammation or not. If there be inordinate inflammation, anti- phlogistics and evacuants, proportioned to the nature of the case, are to be combined with mer- cur}', just as in cases of iritis ; and having put a stop, by these combined measures, to the further extension of the disease, which is sometimes done almost in a few hours, the mercurial treatment should be intermitted, and the patient allowed time to recover from the excitement produced, on the one hand by the disease, and on the other by the mercury. But as soon as the system and part are tranquillised, the mercurial treatment may be again resumed, without fear, but in a milder form, and continued with caution as long as may be necessary." (Op. cit. p- 171.) Whenever Mr. Wallace gave mercury, in cases of inflamed white phagedena, he particularly directed his attention, throughout the treatment, to the character of the slouch at its junction with the living parts ; and it it chan-red from white to black, in consequence ot the intensity of the inflammation, or from any other cause • and if the inflammation increased while the patient was under the influence of mercury ; or if the sore became free from slough, without any diminution of the inflammation and irritation; or lastly, if the system became deranged, while he found extraordinary difficulty in exciting the mercurial action ;-Mr. Wallace directly discon- tinued the mercury. (P. 173.) I introduce Mr. Wallace's view of the usefulness ot bringing the patient quickly under the influence of mercury in certain slates of phagedenic ulceration; not with any intention, however, of joining m its praise ; for such is my conviction of the fatal mischief which I have repeatedly seen result from mercury m such cases, that I have long abandoned it, and find every reason to be satisfied with the results. Mr. Hunter computed that claps occur more frequently than chancres, in the proportion of four or five to one. I am not prepared to offer any opinion on this calculation, in reference either to chancres, as defined by that interesting writer, or under the more comprehensive view of them to which the results of later investigations would lead. One intelligent writer, however, has ob- served that present experience does not justify Mr. Hunter's conclusion respecting the inlre- quency of chancre compared with gonorrhffia. {J. Bacot, Obs. on SypMis, p. 54.) Yet, m Dub- lin, if Mr. Carmichael's statement be correct, the frequency of gonorrhoea, as compared with that ot what is sometimes termed the true venereal chan- cre, must be so great as to defy all computation ; for he informs us that, since the descriptions ot the success of the non-inercurial practice lell into his hands, he has been anxious to ascertain, by per- sonal observation, whether true syphilitic chancres did really admit of being cured without mercury ; but, says he, "This disease, as described by Hunter, has diminished in so extraordinary a degree in this country that, strange to say, 1 have, from that period, met with only one case of true chancre." {Obs. on the Symploms, 4'c. o/ Venereal Diseases, p. 14.) As this chancre re- mained stationary a month, it was thought proper to employ mercurial frictions, and it then soon healed, leaving a callosity which continued two months longer. However, after the above passage was written, Mr. Carmichael met with two cases of " well-marked chancre," each of which was attended with psoriasis syphilitica, scaly from its commencement. No mercury was given. For five weeks the disease gained ground; but, in the end both cases were cured, merely by the adminis- tration of sarsaparilla. The following observa- tions, contained in the appendix to Mr. Carmichael s work, do him infinite credit. " Although (says he) these two cases cannot fail to make a due im- pression, vet, if they stood alone, their evidence could not"be deemed sufficient to establish a bel;et that true syphilis, like the papular disease, is capable of yielding to the powers of the constitu- tion or to remedies in which mercury does not form an ingredient. Bat this deficiency seems to be in a great measure supplied by the testimony of Mr Rose, Dr. Hennen, and other equally intelli- gent surgeons, who had the advantage of serving with our army on the Continent ; and if, in the preceding pages, I appear to be sceptical with re- spect to the accuracy of their observations, and doubted that it was true chancre and true syphi- litic eruption which yielded to their prescriptions unaided bv mercury, these two cases have satisfied me that every attention is due to the exactness and discernment of these respectable individuals; and, if I hesitated until I saw with my own eyes and judged with my own understanding, I claim for my own observations no larger a measure of faith from others." And he afterwards adds, n thus relinquishing my opinion that "ue syp^iiU differs from other venereal complaints by alwa)S requiring mercury for its cure, it is necessary to. reduce Uie doctrine 1 hold to this proposition hat, with respect to the use of that -edicine differs from them only in not being injured, b it decidedly benefited by it in all its symptoms and stages" (Pp. 218, 219.) ic ording'to Mn Hunter, tj-- are three way ,n which chancre may be produced: firs, b the poison being inserted into a wound ; ^""'^'^; J. being applied to a non-secretmg surface; an^ thirdly, by being applied to a common sore A-. ; ind it seem!, is much more readi y i.^c 4 than a sore. To whichever of these three dittiren^.i Saces thJ pus is applied, it produces its speciac . inflammation and ulceration, ""^"/''^ Vs^ cretion of pus. The matter, produced in conse- quence of these different modes of apP^-tion, he says, partakes of the same nature as the matter which was applied; because, he observes, the- itrtion, are'alike.' How the lUleged examp « of very different primary sores being sometmie» mmunicated by the application of the matte^^ chancre, are to be reconciled with f doctrines, it is difficult to suggest, unless M . O michaers observation about tho pi^-scnt fxccs.i