suits were, in all cases, dilatation of the vessels, but in a good number contraction preceded it ; nevertheless, dilatation was the ultimate result. It appeared to be brought about in reflex fashion, the motor centre being, as before, the medulla oblongata. Later researches have shown more clearly that the heart's beat can be accelerated without increase of blood pressure, as by irritation of the first or third root of the ganglion stellatum. Except there be at the same time contraction of the vessel no increase of pressure is noted. (Bever and Von Dezold, CeutmUdalt, ISO?, p. 355.) In the same j'ear (1867), Salkowski, investigat- ing the origin of the sympathetic fibres of the neck, made out that they originated higher in the spinal cord than Budge had thought, viz., above the third vertebra, thus confirming the results of Ludwig and Thiry, who refer the vaso-motor in- fluence (indirectly) to the medulla oblongata. {Cenlralblalt, 1867, p. 487.) This fruitful field of inquiry—viz., the point of origin and the mode of action of the vasc-motor nerve system—has been worked by the Brothers Cyon {Reichert and Du Bois' ArcMv, 1867, p. 398), and by Von Bezold {^Wurzburg Unter- suchungen, 1867), with good results, showing especially that the pulse can be quickened through a particular system of ganglionic nerves. These nerve fibres originate in the spinal cord, pass out in the neck, form the lower cervical and the upper thoracic ganglia,whence thev proceed to the cardiac plexus. These influence the heart—not the vas- cular system, which is mainlyafl^ected from thesame central source, through the splanchnics. These last have the power to regulate blood-pressure. 10. Combined effect of ligature of vessels and section of nerves.—Samuel of Kiinigsberg {Centralblatl, 1869, No. 25) relates some interesting experiments on this subject. He found that thesignsof true acute inflammation were not induced by croton oil in the anajmic parts after a main arterial stem had been tied, until the collateral circulation had been fully established. Thus, after tying the carotid, the collateral circulation is set up in 36 to 40 hours ; and not till then can the marks of acute inflamma- tion bo made to appear say in the ear of that side. But if at the same time that the carotid is tied the sympathetic is divided, inflammation may be pro- duced in 24 to 30 hours. But if only sensory nerves are divided when the carotid is tied, the case is altered, insomuch thatiftheauricularis major, minor, and temporalis are thus divided, no result is obtained in the ear for six times 24 hours. If other sources of blood-supply than the carotid are cut off from the ear, 14 days may elapse ; but when the sympathetic is cut at the same time as the other nerves, the collateral circulation is finished by the second day, and acute inflammation may then readily be induced. This shows that section of the sensory nerves only acts through the sympa- thetic by causing a reflex paralysis of the ganglionic nerve-fibres, and so hindering the setting up of the collateral circulation. Some observations on the same subject,but in a different direction,were made by Tschaussow (riV/e Centralbkitt, ]869, No. 51). 11. The most important papers connected with this subject, to be yet referred to, are one by bav.otti^ ( FeVcAojy's A rcMv, Bd. 50), and one in ^lncl:er's Mcdizinische Jahrbiicher, Heft i., by *• Riegel: as the lines of inquiry were parallel, INFLAMMATION. the results of Riegcl's experiments may be taken. The question to be solved was this: are the changes in blood-vessels in an inflamed part the direct result of local irritation, or are they the consequence of this irritation rcjlectcd through the nerves ? As to tiie local changes—these are usually two in number —alteration in the size of the lumen of the vessel, and alterations in the rapidity of the blood-flow • these had to be examined separatel}-. Brlicke's ocular micrometer was tried for the purpose of ascertaining if any dilatation or contraction took place, but did not succeed well. No one had attempted the latter problem—viz., ascertaining exactly any alteration in the rate of the blood flow. Riegel tried it by comparing the blood- current with an artificial one made to pass through the eye-piece of his microscope parallel to the course of the blood. This stream could be re- gulated, and it was rendered visible by introducing into it small particles of chalk. Thus arranged, it was brought carefully into the same focus as the object examined (the frog's web), and the current, by elevating or depressing the exit tube, could easily be made to correspond exactly with that of the blood. The animals were curarised very care- fully, so as to be under the influence of the drug and no more. Moreover, the animal was so ar- ranged that both hinder webs could be examined and compared. Next, the great sciatic was divided, and the effect noticed. According to Saviotti, this gives rise to dilatation of the vessels and retardation of the blood flow on the corresponding side ; but this Riegel observed only in a few instances and to a slight extent, the frogs he used being strong spring frogs. Next, he applied to the cut nerve a pair of electrodes, so disposed as to readily send a current through the nerve. First he studied the effects of this fonn of irritation as applied to the peripheral extremity of the nerve, but each time he touched it, he found such violent efl^ects—viz., excessive retard- ation and speedy arrest of flow—that he gave up this form of experimentation. He found, in point of fact, that with a wet thread he could produce the same effects, his galvanic current being very strong, and being thus conducted to the fro-r's web as easily as by the nerve. When a very weak current was employed, no result followed. In Saviotti's experiments mechanical irritation was used,but Riegel strove to avoid the difficulties connected with it (pulling the nerve, giving rise to flowing of the blood-current) by laying the nerve on the electrodes. When through the nerve by its central extremity, a moderate current was passed on the injured side, an acceleration of the blood-stream was noted, coming on in two mi mites and gradually increasing, and accompanied by a moderate contraction of the arteries. The, irritation continuing, the acceleration and contrac- tion increased ii ] to a certain point, the vessel diminishing by one-sixth or one-fifth of its diameter and reaching a maximum intensity in about an hour. When the current ceased the former con- dition gradually returned, the effects of the current lasting some time after it had been stopped. To moderate the rapid flow of blood in strong frogs, the author exposed the heart and lowered the temperature by ice. In this way ho reduced the circulation ; nevertheless, central irritation of the nerve in these too gnvo similar results to those just recorded. [e2]