LITHOTOMY, •216 the bladder always empty, and prevents the pain which otherwise is experienced on the first passage of the urine. It prevents also that obstruction to the flow of the urine wliich sometimes occurs after the operation, in consequence of the wound having become plugged by a coagulum of blood. In cases in which the stone has been of so large a size as to make it probable that, in the extraction of it, the soft parts have been lacerated bej'ond the boun- daries of the prostate, the canula will answer another purpose by lessening the danger of the urine becoming effused in the cellular membrane. (Sir B. Brodie, op. cit. p. 287.) In Edinburgh I imderstand this practice has been common; and Mr. Liston is an advocate for it in all cases, and recommends the tube to be secured by tapes to a band round the waist. One reason which lie gives for the plan is, that if the oozing from some vessels persists, it can readily be arrested b}' pushing some pieces of lint with a probe between the tube and sides of the wound. (See Practical Surgery, p. 416.) I believe that in order to avoid the presence of an extraneous body in the wound, it is better to restrict the use of the elastic gum canula to examples at- tended with disposition to htemorrhage or the cir- cumstances specified by Sir B. Brodie. Professor Jameson, of Baltimore, who aims at uniting the wound as far as practicable by adhe sion, introduces a moderately large flexible catheter through the wound into the bladder, and secures it by a soft strip of rag to the penis. The patient is laid on his side, his knees brought together and tied by means of a soft silk handkerchief. No sutures are employed, but the patient must lie quietly on his side for two or three days, so as to obtain the effect of a syphon from the tube. He may, however, after some hours, if particularly desirous, turn upon his left side, yet never forget ting that the outer end of the tube must be lower than the inner. The patient may be kept comfort- ably dry by using a cup or large sponge to contain the water as it drops from the tube. (See Amer. Ed. of this Diet.) A surgeon at Dundee has lately advocated the same practice. ' [The after treatment in cases of lithotomy is ex- tremely simple when no unfavourable symptoms present themselves. It is unnecessary to tie the patient's knees to- gether, as some surgeons recommend, or to elevate the shoulders in order to give a depending position to the wound. The surface of the wound itself requires no ap- plication whatever, but the parts must be kept clean and dry. It is of great importance that the urine should escape freely through the wound soon after the operation; and the surgeon s-bould pay particular attention to tliis point; but the propriety of using a tube, as recommended by Collet, and in recent times by Mr. Liston, seems doubtful. Whatever is calculated to annoy the patient in any shape or excite the wound should be carefully avoided. If the patient experiences any considerable pani about the neck of the bladder soon after the opera- tion, an opiate may be administered; and this will have the further benefit of keeping the bowels quiet. During the first three or four days the diet thould be very light; but it must be remembered that children and very old persons will require support much earlier than adults. The time at which the urine begins to flow through the urethra varies in almost every case; but, generally speaking, the wound begins to con- tract about the fourth or fifth da)', and then some urine escapes through the urethra as well as through the wound. More and more urine now passes through the urethra in proportion as the wound in the prostate continues to heal, until at last the whole of the urine takes the natural route. This usually happens in about sixteen to twenty days. From this time the external wound begins to close, and the cure is completed in from thirty to forty days. In less favourable cases various accidents, which will be presently described, may require correspond- ing treatment.] Lithotomy with a Knife. The Modern Lateral Operation.—[The modern lateral operation, or, as Mr. Cooper terms it, lithotomy with a knifp, is essentially the same as the operation invented by Franco, practised by Frere Jacques, and improved by Cheselden. Before being submitted to this— or, indeed, to any other operation for the extraction of vesical calculus—the patient should undergo careful preliminary treatment. This is an impor- tant point to which the most successful lithotomists have always been attentive.] Sir A. Cooper, I think with considerable reason, recommends putting the patient on vegetable diet for a little while previously to the operation. He disapproves of operating when the kidneys are diseased, the bladder is ulcerated, and disease in the chest, asthma, or any irregularity prevails. He has found the operation generally more suc- cessful in the poor and labouring classes, than in the rich and luxurious. Old age is not considered by him as an objection to the operation, which he differs from the generality of surgeons in believing most successful in persons from 61 to 63 years of age. If the patient is loaded with fat, he says the chance of peritoneal inflammation is always great—according to his experience, convulsions having a fatal result, are frequent after operations on children, particularly when much blood has been lost. When a stone of considerable magni- tude is accompanied with an enlarged prosUite gland, the patient (he says) rarely recovers from the operation. An opening medicine should be given the day be- fore the patient is cut, and a clyster injected a couple of hours before the time fixed upon for the opera- tion, in order to empty tlie rectum and thus diminish the chance of its being wounded. It is generally considered advantageous to let the bladder be somewhat distended, and the patient is therefore directed to retain his urine a certain time before he is cut. Formerly a juguni penis was sometimes used for confining the urine in the bladder, but since my entrance into tl.o profession I have never heard of this contrivance being employed. The presence of urine in the bladder, it is conceived, may lessen the chance of the fundus of that organ being injured by the gorget, but I am not sure that the reason fof the prac- tice is good. The plan is disapproved of by Sir A. Cooper, who says, that when the urine collected gushes out, the bladder contracts and embraces the stone so closely, that it is difficult to get hold of the foreign body with the forceps. [The existence of serious organic disease is