I nature of diseases is not scientifically obsei-veil, morbid aimtuiny is uncultivated, and tiie operation of sounding never attempted. However, as our East India native regiments are furnished with excellent surgeons, I consider it well proved that, in those regiments, the disease is uncommon ; for, otherwise, the statement would no doubt have been contradicted by them. [Later experience has shown that this idea is erroneous. According to Mr. Brett, the great frequency of the disease in India is now well es- tablished, as many as 100 cases having occurred to him during his abode there. He attributes it to the errors in diet of the natives, especially chil- dren, who are permitted to devour various kinds of unwholesome rancid sweetmeats, and particularly coarse uideavened bread, at all hoiura of the day (0/i Surff. in India, p. 183.)] Mr. li. Smith, of Bristol, has published an in- teresting statistical inquiry into the frequency of stone in the bladder in Great Britain and Ireland, though, strictly, it is a comparative estimate of the number of operations for stone in different parts of the kingdom in given spaces of time, and not of the number of calculous patients. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi.) So far as I can judge from the facts stated in Mr. Smith's paper, and from what I know about the average number of operations for stone in London, not more than 180 can be fairly reckoned as the annual total in Great Britain and Ireland, which is about 1 for each 100,000 of the population, taken at 18 millions. _ Most frequently the tendency to these diseases IS connected with some unknown causes, peculiar to certain districts or countries as, for example, the district of which Norwich may be considered' the centre, in which more calculous cases occur than m the whole of Ireland or Scotland. In such instances, the water, diet, temperature, of the district, has been each accused, in its turn, of bemg the exciting cause; but (says Dr.Prout; the' circumstance, I believe, still remains unexplained. With regard to the chemical nature of urinary calculi, there was nothing known until 1776, when Scheele published, on the subject, in the Stockholm Inmsadions. He there stated, that all the urinary calculi, which he had examined, consisted of a pe- culiar concrete substance, now well known by the name of lithic, or uric acid, which he also showed was soluble in alkaline lixivia. Scheele further discovered, that the lithic matter was, in some de- gree, capable of being dissolved in cold water; that this solution possessed acid properties, and in particular th.it of reddening litmus ; that it was acted upon in a peculiar manner when boiled in nitric acid ; and lastly, that human urine always contained this substance in greater or less quan- tity, and often let it separate in the form of a brick- coloured sediment, by the mere effect of cooling. Tiie discovery made by Scheele was confirmed by Bergmann and Morveau, and the investigation of the subject was afterwards prosecuted by others with redoubled ardour. At length it wan fully ascertained that there existed others besides those composed of uric acid ; and our knowledge of them was much extended by the researches of Pearson, VVollaston, Fourcroy, and Vauqiielin. Several important facts were also established by the talents and industry of some other distinguished ^en ; viii. Dr. Henry, of Manchester ; I'rofessor arande, of the Royal Institution of London ; Dr. URINARY CALCULL gjjr Marcet, late of Guy's Hospital ; and Dr. Front, of London. The facts and considerations of the' latter writer showed, however, that the common opinion ot pure lithic acid being contained in the urine is not e.xactly correct ; but that this acid "in healthy urine exists in a state of combinatiim with ammonia, and that, in reality, this fluid con- tains no uncombined acid at all." (0« the Nature (5'c. of Gravel and Calculus, c. 13.) ' The credit which is due to Dr. WoUaston for his valuable and original discoveries respecting urinary calculi is very considerable; a truth which I have particular pleasure in recording here, since his merits have not been fairly appreciated by the iM-ench chemists. Indeed, as Dr. Marcet observes, It IS the more desirable that his claims should be placed in the clearest point of view, as the late celebrated M. Fourcroy, both in his Sysleme des Lujinonsanccs C/iimiqiies, and in his various pa- pers on this particular suliject, has in a most un- accountable manner overlooked Dr. Wollaston's I ibours, and in describing results exactly similar to those previously obtained and published by the h-nglish chemist, has claimed them as his own dis- coveries. Yet Dr. M^ollaston's paper was printed in our Philosophical Transactions two years be- fore Fourcroy published his Memoir in the An- nales de Chimie, and three years before he gave to the world his Sijsthne des Connoissances Chi. miques ; and he discussed in these works a paper of Dr. Pearson on the lithic acid, published in i-no!""'; '^'^ Philosophical Transactions (for Ui)d) subsequent to that which contained the ac- count of Dr. Wollaston's discoveries ! (See Mar- cet s Essay on Calculous Disorders, p. GO ■ also 1809 7^ ^' °^ It would appear then, that Scheele first di--- covered the nature of those urinary calculi which consist of hthic acid ; but that Dr. Wollaston first ascertained the nature of several other kinds, some ot which have also been described at a later period by 1< ourcroy and Vauquelin. On the whole there are hve species of concretions, whose chemical properties were first pointed out by Dr. Wollaston and no less than four belong to the urinary organs' Ihese are, 1st. Gouty (lithic or uric acid) concre- tions. 2ndly. The fusible calculus. 3rdly. The mulberry calculus. 4thly. The calculus of the prostate gland. Sthly. The cystic oxide, dis- covered in 1810. . _^^[Urinary Calculi may be conveniently divided 1. Those arising out of the uric (or lithic) a.id d hesis, which are of three kinds; viz. Chi uric d the urate o ammonia, and the uric or zanihic oxide calculus. 2 Those arising out of the oxalic diathesis ; the oxalate of lime or mulberry calculus. 3. Those arising out of the phosphatic diathesis Ihese are ol tliiee kinds: viz. the triple phosphatJ "t ammonia and mnjrnesia, the phosphate of lime and the mixed or fusible calculus. ' 4. The carbonate of lime calculus. C. The cystic oxide calculus. (). Fibrinous and other pseudo calculous sub- stances dei)osUed in the bladder.] Dr. Prout investigated, with considerable talent the comparative prevalency of the different forms' of urinary deposits, mid the order of their sue