by M. Breschet. (See Magendie, Journ. de Physi- ologie Experim. t. i. p. 354.) Melanotic tumors, attacked by ulceration, or the knife, pour out blood as well as a blackish fluid. They may also throw out granulations, sup- purate and heal, as was exemplified in the horse operated upon by M. Damoiseau, the particulars of which were published by M. Trousseau. {Ar- chives, Juin 1828, p. 180.) In ordinary cases, melanosis is not productive of much disorder m the economy. In the liver and the cellular tis- sue it may attain an enormous magnitude without giving rise, during life, to the slightest functional disturbance leading to the suspicion of its existence, provided it does not cause any mechanical oppres- sion. When melanotic tumors exhibit any in- flammatory action, or disposition to haemorrhage, it is the cellular tissue in their structure that is the seat of those changes, just as it is the seat of cancer which sometimes invades melanotic tu- mors. (Blandin, in Did. de Med. et de Chir. t. xi. p. 392.) ^ ^ ^ Dr. Carswell and M. Andral differ from Laen- nec in believing the melanotic matter to be depo- sited first in a fluid state, and afterwards to acquire greater consistence from the cellular tissue in which it becomes developed. At nn indehnite period of its formation, however, Dr. Carswell admits that the solid melanotic tumor loses its consistence, and softens; yet this change does not appear to him nor to M. Andral, as it does to Laen- nec (Precis d'Anai. Pathol, t i. p. 450), to be a vital process, originating in the melanotic matter itself, but to depend upon the destruction of tis- sues which surround, or are contained in, the me- lanotic tumor, and upon the simultaneous effusion of serosity. Inflammation rarely accompanies tne softening process, and, when ulceration and slough- ing occur, they appear to be chiefly owing to he melanotic matter compressing or obliterating the blood-vessels of the tissues in which it is contained. (Carstvell, Op. dt.) . . The texture of the melanotic matter is homoge- neous, void of smell, opaque, and a fluid exudes from it, which stains the fingers black; and it not itself organised. In vain (says M. Andra should we look for any trace of organisation. It is merely a homogeneous substance, sometimes di- vided into lobdes, or layers by eel ular t.sue which pervades it, without belonging to it. ihere Tre neither cavities, areola, nor fibres in it: no ve - sel, no nerve, is distributed in it. No characters exist entitling it to be called a texture. As Profesror Carswell observes, ' when a num. ber of melanotic tumors are grouped together thev are included in a common capsule, and separated from one another by their respective coverings and portions of cellular tissue, contamed n the angular spaces sometimes left between them. It is in tLse filamentous and cellular t-ues d^^^^^^^ that blood-vessels or nerves are to be seen. Minute arteries and veins maybe observed -ni. png m both, but they never pass beyond the limits of tliese tissues. Large branches, '^"'1/-'=; of arteries and veins are sometimes found pa s ng over the surface, or included in the agRregated masses of melanotic tumors." (See Carswell s Mem. Forms ofDis. Fasc. on Melanoma ) - Witli respect to the chemical composition of me- lanosis, M. Theimrd detected carbon in it;_M, l.ia- rion, albumen and a neculial black colouring mat- MELANOSIS. ter; and M. Barruel ascertained, that this last is analogous to the colouring matter of the blood. He also made out the presence of a particular mo- dification of fibrinc in it, and the existence of phos- phate of iron in it; elementary ingredients also in the blood. M. Foy made a comparative analysis of medullary or encephaloid, scirrhous, and melanotic formations, and he detected in these different sub- stances albumen, fibrine, and salts, the basis of which were soda, potassa, lime, and oxide of iron, in rather less proportion in the two first formations than in melanosis; and in this latter a highly car- bonised principle, composing nearly one-third of it. These various researches thus all tend to prove a close analogy between the elements of melanosis and those of the blood. Melanosis is not restricted to man. It is more frequently noticad in white and grey horses than in those of any other colour; MM. Rodet and Breschet have met with it also in horses of a light bay colour; and dogs, cats, rabbits, mice, and rats, are all subject to it. In horses, melanotic swellings form especially under the tail, and thence extend to a greater o'r lesser distance within the pelvis. They may often be removed from this situation with success. Though mehmosis may occur at any period of life, and even in the foetus, as a melanotic forma- tion on the cerebellum exemplified in a preparation in University College Museum would tend to prove, yet it is more common in adults and aged persons than very young individuals. ^ [The followingstatistics are fromMr.Paget sLec- tures on Surgical Pathology, vol.ii. p. 486 to 488:— " In twent3--five cases of melanoid cancer, seven- teen of the patients were females, eight were males. In fourteen cases, the primary seat of the disease was in the skin or subcutaneous tissue; m nine in the eye or orbit; in one in the testicle ; in one in the vagina. , " The ages of the patients at the access ot the cancer were as follows;— Under 10 years Between 10 and 20 20 and 30 30 and 40 40 and SO „ 50 and 60 Above 60 • " In eighteen cases, in all of whicli the primary disease was removed (but in two only partially) tlie durations of life from the first notice of the cancer were as follows:— , . „ Between 6 and 12 months in 3 cases 12 and 18 „ 4 „ 24 and 36 „ 5 „ ^, 36 and 48 „ 1 „ Above 48 ,. ^ '.' " Amona eighteen cases whose history is known for some time after the removal of the primary disease, one has survived for three years, another for ten months, without recurrence of the disease. In the rest the disease recurred at the following periods j jind 3 months in 7 cases 3 and 6 „ 4 „ 6 and 12 „ 2 „ 12 and 24 „ 2 „ 24 and 36 „ . " ." Seeing this close correspondence in their general the rules respecting operations for 2 1 7 4 5 4 Q 51 Between pathology.