PARACENTESIS, her catamcnia had retumeil and her health entirely recovered. "The tumor was composed of a large sac, which had contained the fluid drawn off in ditt'erent operations by tapping. One-third of the tumor was solid, containing a fibro-cartilaginous sub- stance. It weighed three-and-a-half pounds." In offering this case, it may be proper briefly to sura up a liistory of the operations for diseased ovaria: it may assist others in forming an opinion of the relative chance of success in future cases. The removal of these tumors by an operation had its advocates in the last century; but the authority of De Haen and Morgagni was raised against them, as doubtful in their results, and impossible in their execution. The first attempt to remove them by an operation was made in 1776, by L'Aumonier, surgeon-in-chief of the hospital of Rouen, and is reported as a successful case. (See Good's Study of Medicine, vol. iv. p. 325, ed. 4.) Dr. M'Dowel, of Kentucky, has reported three cases in which he operated successfully for tumors in the abdomen, ovarian and hydatid. A doubt exists in relation to these cases ; and certainly the mode of describing them is calculated to confirm that doubt. We are bound, however, upon the authority of others, to believe them, notwithstand- ing the improbabilities connected with their details; and it is much to be regretted that a more circum- stantial account of these cases has not been given to the profession. (See Med. Cliir. Eev. vol t. p. 216.) Professor Smith, of Yale College, has given an interesting case of the successful removal of an ovarian dropsy by an operation. The tumor was small, weighing from two to three ounces, and re- quiring an incision of three inches in length. (See Am. Med. Rec. 1822.) "In the London Medical Gazette, for 1829, Dr. Hopfer, of Biberback, has reported three cases of extirpation of diseased ovaria, by Carysraan. The first was performed in 1819, and proved fatal in thirty-six hours after the operation. The second in 1820. This case was successful, and the woman has since borne children. The third case occurred in the same year, and never recovered from the shock of the operation. Thus, of the three cases, but one recovered." (See Reese's American Edition of this Dictionary.') Mr. Jeaffreson, of Framlingham, Suffolk, has published the particulars of a case, in which he removed an ovarian cyst. It appeared to this gentleman that the danger and difliculties of ope- rations of this kind might be lessened by performing them before extensive adhesions had taken place between the cyst and the surrounding parts, and as soon as the cyst was sufficiently distended to press firmly on the sides of the abdomen. He had an opportunity of trying on the dead body of a lady what could be done with an ovarian sac ; and " accordingly exposed it by an incision of about an inch ; then evacuating its contents with the trocar, I was enabled to draw out the whole ofit, together with a great portion of the Fallopian tube attached, which produced full conviction on my mind, tiiat had her disease been confined to the ovarj-, her life might have been saved by an operation." On May 8, 1836, he tried the foregoing plan on Mrs. B. " In the presence (saj's he) of my friend, Mr. King (of Saxmundham), I made an incision, of between ten and twelve lines in the course of 437 the linea alba, midway between the navel and the pubes ; and having thus carefully exposed the sac, I evacuated by the trocar about twelve pints of clear serum. During the flow of the serum a portion of the sac was secured in the gripe of a forceps, to prevent its receding; and I afterwards gradually extracted the sac entire from the cavity of the abdomen, together with another sac, con- taining two ounces of fluid, and indeed the entire ovary ; having only to cut through a slight reflec- tion of the peritoneum and ovarian ligament, which, with a small portion of the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, are the only natural attach- ments of the ovary to the uterus. But, as this part was the medium of vascular supply to the sac, and the vessels on the surface of the sac were un- usuaUy large, we thought it right to include it in a ligature previous to returning it into the cavity of the abdomen. Tlie ends of the ligature were cut off close to the knot. A very small portion of omentum protruded with the sac, but was very readily returned. The external wound was closed with two sutures, adhesive plaster, and a compress of lint." The result was a perfect cure. Further, it appears from Mr. Jeaffreson's statement, that Mr. King, of Saxmundham, has repeated this ope- ration on a lady, where the ovarian sac was more distended, and having discharged twenty-seven pints and a half of fluid, he extracted it entire, to- gether with a tubercular tumor of the size of a turkey's egg. The patient recovered without any bad symptom. Mr. Jeaffreson considers that his method of operating is preferable to that of Mr. Lizars, whose plan, on account of the greater ex- tent of the incision, must prove hazardous. The same objection, he thinks, is applicable to the case recorded by Dr. C. F. Quittenbaum, which, however, ended successfully. (See Comment, de Ovarii Hyperlrophia, Sfc.; and Jeaffreson, in Protv Med. Trans, vol. v. p. 239.) An example is mentioned by Dr. Granville, in which several encysted tumors of the right ova- rium (one as large as a full-grown foetus's head) were discharged with a collection of matter, through an ulcerated opening in the parietes of the abdomen. (See Med. Fhys. Journ. June 1822.) Though the disease, when once formed, mostly continues throughout life, it occasionally disappears. An adhesion may be formed between the tumor and some portion of the great intestine, and a very large quantity of the most oftensive purulent fluid, of various consistence, be passed by stool; iu such cases the patient often recovers. At other times the same takes place by discharge through the vagina ; and several cases are on record in which the discharge could be accelerated by pressure made on the tumor. Occasionally, after adhesion between the cyst and the parietes of the abdomen, spontaneous rupture takes place at the umbilicus' and the contents of the cystare discharged through the aperture, and a perfect cure may be the result. (Seymour, Op. oil. p. 52.) The disease is alleged sometimes to have ended in the cyst bursting, and its contents being dis- charged into tlie peritoneal [cavity, whence they were absorbed. In the event of such a change in the situation of tiie fluid taking place, there must always be, however, a risk of a fatal attack of peritonitis. Tlie bursting of the cyst into tlio cavity of the abdomen has been fatal in three instances