TALIPES. 682 certainly acts prejudicially upon the ultimate re- sult of the case. It is, moreover, a great advan- tiige to pet the treatiiient oF the cluh-rnot ovei- before the toiniiieiiceraent of dentition, during which process childien are generally fretful, and l)econ\e liable to so much illness, that interruptions, from this cause may be feared. Ojieniliims requireil.—In the great majority of cases of talipes varus, it is necessary to divide the tendons of tlie tibialis amicus, tibialis posticus, and flexiir longus digitoinni muscles, and also the tendo-Acliillis. The plantar fascia also fre- quently requires division in infantile cases, and constantly in adult ca-es. Ol der ill xchich the Tend07is should he divided.— In all severe cases of varus, it is absolutely essen- tial to divide the operative treatment into two stages; the second operation being performed after an inierval of a few weeks or months, according to the age of the patient, and the severity of the case. The great practical pi)i"t is to overcome the inversion of the anterior portion of the foot; or, in other words, to convert the varus into equinus, and thus reduce acnnipound to a single deformity, before dividing the tendo-Achillis. With thi> view the tendons of the tibialis anticus, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus digitorum should be divided at the first operation, and the foot subse- quently everted by mechanical means. There is no greater error in the treatment of severe varus than to divide the tendo-Achillis at the first operation, either by itself, as is frequently done, or conjointly with the division of the other tendons. It is now an established rule in orthopaedic practice that the tendo-Achillis is the last tendon to be divided, and that its division should be delayed till the equinus alone remains to be cured—i. e., in the second stage of the operative treatment. The plantar fascia may be divided at the second operation, in cases of moderate severity; but in more severe cases its division should be made a separate stage in the treatment, after the division of the anterior and posterior tibial tendons, and before the section of the tendo-Acliiliis, the contracted condition ol which may be rendered serviceable by fixing the 03 calcis during the process of unfolding the longitudinal arch of the foot by mechanical means. Mode of peifnrmivg the Operations.—It is the established practice at the Orthopaedic Hospital to divide all tendons from below upwards towards the skin. The knife is introduced obliquely downwards, with the flat surface parallel witli the tendon to be divided. The point is then carried behind the tendon, as close to it as possible, and the handle of the knife depressed ; the cutting edge is now turned against the tendon, which, in infants, yields before a little direct pressure, the tendon being simultaneously made tense by an assistant who has charge of the foot. After div-sioii of the tendon the foot should be instantlv restored to its deformed position, so as to approxi- mate the divided extremities of the tendon, and the wound covered by a compress and adhesive plaister. The foot should then be bandaged, and a suftly-padded splint applied, so as to retain it in the deloruied position; and thus it must remain for three or four days, when tlie extending pro- cess should be conuncnced by the special ap- paratus employed. For the division of the posterior tibial tendon, two knives are necessary—viz., a narrow scalpel- pointed tenotome, and a bliint-pointed tenotome. The scalpel should be thrust straight down to the tendon, a little above the inner malleolus, and the sheath of the tendon opened; then the bluiit- pointed knife should be introduced in the same track, and passed behind the posterior tiliial tendon, towards which the cutting edge may then be turned, and by a very gentle movenient the tendon will be divided. If the point of the knife is moved about too freely, or thrust too deeply, there will be a fear of dividing the posterior tibial artery. THE MECHANICAL TREATMENT OF INFANTILE VARUS. In slight cases, in which all the tendons requiring division are divided at one' operation, the S arpa's shoe, or anj' other apparatus preferred by the surgeon, may be applied on the third day, and extension commenced, the foot being gradually brought into its natural position in about three weeks; but in the more severe cases, in which the operative treatment is divided into two stages, different mechanical means must be employed in each stage. For the purpose of everting the foot, and bringing it into the condition of talipes equinus, nothing answers better than a simple straight splint, softly padded and applied along the outer side of the leg, below the knee. To this splint the foot should be gradually drawn by a bandage, till it is brought to a straight line with the leg, and a com- plete equinus produced. When the eversion of the foot is complete, and the second stage of treatment commenced by the divisi(m of the tendo-Achillis, then tie object of me- chanical treatment will be to flex the foot at the ankle-joint, and in so doing to gain the required amount of elongation of the tendo-Achillis.This must be accomplished gradually, but in about a fortnight the foot may be bronglil into its natural position, and the required elongatitm of the tendo-Achillis obtained. This time applies only to cases of varus in healthy infants, wliere the repaiative process proceeds tjuickly; in feeble chddren three weeks may be taken, and in the non-congenital cases of club-foot associated with paralysis, at least a mouth shcnild be allowed. The apparatus best adapted for this second stage of treatment, i. e., after division of the tendo-Achillis, is the Scarpa's shoe, or the app.i- ratus known as a varus-splint, which combines the advantages of the Scarpa's shoe with those of the outside splint continued to the thigh, and controls the tendency to inversion of the foot, frequently present after the division of the con- tracted tendons, and even after the case is con- sidered to be cured. The varus splint is deiidedly the best apparatus. After the foot has been brought into its imtuial position, this splint must still be constantly worn for at least a fortnight, ' whilst the new tcndonous structure is acquiring more perfectly its true fibrous character, and during this time passive motion ni&y be allowed for a quarter of an hour twice a day. About the end of the fourth or fifth week, it the tendo-Achillis should appear to be .^Kiig, the varns-splint should be worn only "'M'": ""^ the daytime the child may wear an ordinary kid boot with a steel spring attadred to the outer side to keep the foot everted. This spring should have