''"8 VENEREAL DISEASE. consequence of the vitiation which the constitution has undergone (although the syphilitic poison may it- self have disappeared) a morbid state of system may have been produced, tending sometimes to a fatty degeneration of the various structures of the body, but more especially to that change known as the lardaceous or waxy. This might, with more pro- priety be called the second stage, or, if preferred, the tertiary stage; but one to be distinguished from the preceding, inasmuch as the virus was then present, whilst in the latter it has departed, the changes in the tissues being attributable to the cachectic condition, and therefore not unlike what may arise under other circumstances. Such a division of the disease into syphilis and its sequelte is one which I have long proposed to myself, finding it a simple one, and warranted by clinical ex- perience as well as by p.ithological research." The only materia! point in which we are unable to agree with Dr. Wilks has been already alluded to, viz., that the fibro-plastic deposits in the mus- cles, in the subcutaneous and submucous tissues, and in the viscera, which he classes with secondary symptoms, and in which he would recommend mercury for their cure. We, on the other hand, would group these gummatous deposits, together with the so-called lardaceous and waxy degenerations occasionally found in the viscera, as belonging to the tertiary syphilitic affections, or sequoias of syphilis, and consequently hold that iodine and not mercury is the remedy which should be depended upon in the treatment of such cases. It would hardly be doing justice to Dr. Wilks's paper if we did not apprise the reader that his investigations are supported by numerous highly interesting and apposite cases occurring in his own public and private practice and in that of his predecessors at Guy's Hospital.] [Tim Diathetic Effects of Iiilierited Syphilis in After Life.—This article would be incom- plete did we not draw the attention of the reader to Mr. Hutchinson's extended researches on the subject of inherited sypliilis, especially in reference to its effects on the constitution at periods remote from iiifancj'. For many years Mr. Hutchinson has devoted his attention to this hitherto much-neglected branch of in- quiry, and has from time to time published the result of his labaurs in the various medical peri- odicals. In the year 1863 a very elaborate and painstaking work emanated from him, embodying his previous views, and carrying them still further, entitled " A Clinical Memoir on certain Diseases of the Eye and Ear, consequent on Inherited Sy- philis." The principal features of this valuable monograph are the unwearied industry displayed by him in the collection of cases bearing upon the points under consideration, and the perseverance and boldness with which he insists that certain morbid appearances affecting the teeth, the eyes, and the ears, hitherto overlooked or misinterpreted by the profession, should be considered the result of inherited syphilis. The influence of this dia- thesis on the permanent teeth, upon the cornea and other tunics of the eye, as well as upon the hearing, are successively discussed and illustrated by plates and numerous cases.. With respect to the notching of the permanent teeth, it occurs in by iar the greater number of the cases narrated, and is considered by Mr. Hutchinson as a patho- gnomonic sign of inherited syphilis. "The ground- glass opacity of the cornea," hitherto attributed to struma, is treated of by him under the title of syphilitic keratitis ; and this opinion of its ori-rin from inherited syphilis is supported by no less thaa 10-2 cases recorded in detail, and afterwards care- fully tabulated. The affections of the iris, the choroid coat, and the retina arising from the same cause, are likewise brought under notice, and their ophthalmoscopic characters detailed and repre- sented in the plates and cases related in support of the conclusions arrived at. But the scope and value of Mr. Hutchinson's researches will be more fairly estimated by a few quotations from his published memoir. In his preface he remarks ; " The subject of in- herited venereal taint in its casual relation to various diseases occurring in periods of life more or less advanced from those of infancj', has, for the last fourteen j'ears, engaged mj' close attention." Further on in the same preface he observes " that chronic interstitial keratitis is es- sentially an heredito-syphilitic disease, and that dental peculiarities of a certain kind are, when cautiously examined, a reliable indication of in- herited taint, are indeed the principal assertions met with in the following pages. That both should be received with incredulity by those who have not had large opportunities for examining the facts, is what ought not only to be expected, but strongly desired." On the means of recognition of the subjects of heredito-syphilis, during the tertiary stage (pp. 204-5), he writes:—" By far the most reliable amongst the objective symptoms is the state of the permanent teeth, if the patient be of age to show them. Although the tem- porary teeth often, indeed usually, present some peculiarities in syphilitic children, of which a trained observer maj' avail himself, yet they show nothing which is pathognomonic, and nothing which I dare describe as worthy of general reli- ance. The central upper incisors of the second set are the test-teetli, and the surgeon not tho- roughly conversant with the various and very common forms of dental malformation will avoid much risk of error if he restrict his attention to this pair. In syphilitic patients'these teeth are usually short and narrow, with a broad vertical notch in the edges, and their corners rounded off. Horizontal notches or furrows are often seen, but they, as a rule, have nothing to do with syphilis. If the question be put, Are the teeth of the type described pathognomonic of hereditary taint? I answer unreservedly, that when well characterised I believe they are. I have met with many ni which the type in question was so slightly marked that it served onl3' to suggest suspicion and by no u-.eans to remove doubt, but I have never seen it well characterisL'd without having reason to believe tli.it the inference to which it pointed was well founded. " Next in value to the malformation of the teeth are the state of the patient's skin, the formation of his nose, and the contour of his forehead. '1 he skin is almost always thick, pasty, and opaque. It also often shows little pits and scars, the relics of a former eruption, and at the angles of the mouth are radiating linear scars running out nito the cheeks. The bridge of the nose is almost always broader than usual, and low ; often it is re- markably sunk and expanded. The forehead is