10-I-2 zinc; repeated.l 'Ms an external application, tlie salt dissolved in rose-water, in the proportion of gr. iss. to §j. of rose-wi'ter, forms an excellent collyriiim in the latter stage of ophthalmia, after the inflam- matory action hai subsided; it is a good injection in a similar stage of ifonorrhosa [the strength gene- rally employed bring from gs. iii. to gs. v. to g ]•]; and a bitiiin in some kinds of superficial inflamma- tions. Of double strength, this solution is the best application that can be used in scrofulous tumors, after they have suppurated, and the ab- scess has been discharged." (A. T. Thomson, London Dispensalon/. ei. 2, p. 559.) A gargle of sulphate of zinc ia often advisable for ulcerations of the mouth, ti>n;;ue, or throat. R Zinci Sul phatis 9j. Aq. Rosce ^ vij. Oxymellis § j- M. ft. Gargarisma frequenter utendum. [T/ie ozide of zinc is a very line soft white powder, which, mixed with an equal weight of starch powder, has a very soothing and absorbent effect when dusted upon excoriated siir faces, such as the nates of children, superficial burns, eczema, erysipelas, and in the syphilitic eruptions of infants. There are many flabby in- dolent ulcers, which will not heal whilst lotions or ointments are employed, that yield readily to the treatment by this dry powder. In this form also, or used as a lotion with a little glycerine and rose- water, it is very successful in allaying the irritation of skin, from which some ladies sutfer when much exposed to the sun.] The wiguentuin zinvi, composed of an ounce of the oxide of zinc and six ounces of prepared lard, is an useful astringent, mildlj'-stimulant applica- tion; and is frequently employed in various cuta- neous diseasles, sore nipples, and chronic inflamma- tion of the conjunctiva of the eyelids. Mr. Erasmus Wilson has suggested benzoate of zinc ointment, and it is much employed, the benzoic acid being very agreeable. The unguentum zinci of the present Pharmacopcsia is thus prepared. The chloride is by far the most important of all the salts of zinc. It is used largely as a dis- infectant. It forms an admirable stimulating and cleansing lotion, and it is the most generally useful and efRci'-nt caustic we possess. Under the name of'-Sir Wm. Burnett's Fluid," a strong solution of this salt is largely used as a disinfecting agent in ships and hospitals, and very generally in the public service, as well as in private houses. Cases of poisoning have resulted from the accidental drinking of this fluid, for which the alkaline carbonates and albumen would be the proper anti- dotes. As a stimulating lotion in the proportions of from gr. ii. to gr. vj. to g j. of distilled water, it is most valuable in all foul, sluggish, or sloughing ulcers, whether of a strumous, venereal, or cancer- ous nature. A case of extensive serpiginous vene- real ulceration of the thigh, which had resisted all treatment for several years, came under the care of the present writer at the Royal Free Hospital. By the use of a lotion gradually increased in strength up to gr. iv. to g j, the ulceration was stopped, and ultimately healed. Epithelioma and lupoid ulcers niiiy often be checked in their progress by this lotion, the surface being cleansed, and the granula- tions assuming a healthy aspect; after which, by the use of a less stimulating application, such as the chlorate of potash lotion, a perfect healing of the wound may sometimes be obtained. Even in the deep sloughing ulceration, which occa- sionally ensues in scirrhus of the breast, the use of this lotion mny be most advantageously em- ployed for the purpose of detaching the slough, and renovating and revivifying the secreting surface; not only thereby deodorising the foul secretions, but oftentimes inducing entire cicatrization of the wound. After the subsidence of the inflamjnatsry stage of gonoirhosa, there is no injection so efficient in curing the muco purulent discharge as a lotion containing from gr. i. to gr. ii. of chloride of zinc to the ounce of distilled water. Lately, Mr. Moore, of the Middlesex Hospital, and Mr. De Morgan, have been employing a very strong solu- tion of this salt—forty grains to the ounce—to all wounds after operation. It was used at first as an adjuvant to the knife in cancer, in the hope of reacliing any germs of the disease which may have remained in the tissues adjacent to the tumor. In all the cases so treated itappeared that there was very little suppuration, that the healing was unusually rapid, and that generally there was no unpleasant odour from the wound. This treatment was then extended to all operations, and it seemed to prevent the occurrence of erysipelas and pyaemia, which had previously been rather frequent in the Middlesex Hospital. The advantage of this treatment in preventing the recurrence of cancer after operations has to be tested by the lapse of time. In a case of keloid disease, situate over the os sternum, removed by the present writer at the Cancer Hospital, this strong solution was used after the operation ; but, nevertheless, the disease returned within two months of the cicatrizition of the wound. Mr. De Morgan's paper on this subject will be found in the Bi-itish and Foreign Med. Ckir. Review, Jan. 18G6. . . The chloride of zinc is rarely used in its solid form, because, owing to its rapid deliquescence, it is apt to extend its caustic influence bej'ond the parts intended to be aflected by it. It is niade in pipe-shaped moulds, and also in flat cakes the size of a shilling, and as fine-pointed arrows. The latter are especially intended to be used after the manner of M. Maisonneuve, who was wont to make several deep incisions around the tumor to be iicted on, and insert in each one of these caustic iirrows, tiuis destroying the tumor by cutting oft" the sources of its nutriment. His arrows, however, were not pure chloride of zinc, but consisted of one part caustic and two parts arrowroot. Although this proceeding has been employed in England, it never obtained much countenance, and has nearly fallen into desuetude. These ariows are very handy for touchmg sloughing parts, and especially for acting gradually upon epithelioma of the lips, when the patient is indisposed to submit to excision, or to the more decided application of the caustic paste. The flat tablet is intended to bo placed upon the snrfaco to be destroyed, and as it liquefies plaster of 1 aris must be sprinkled upon it to prevent the extension of the caustic influence beyond the part aftected. A paste made of equal parts of the chloride and prepared chalk is generally the most convenien and eflicient method of applying this caustic, ami the thickness of the paste should be equal to tne depth of tissue to be removed. A few years since an American—Dr. Fell—came to this country witii n supposed new method of curing cancer. He