336 NECROSIS. take place by disease, injury, or and from these osseous granules the new bone is developed. {Milller's Elements of I'hysiology, hy Buly. — Goodsir's Anatomical and Pathological Observations. Edin. 1834.) Rokitansky {op. cit. p. 168) states that new osseous matter is " furnished chiefly by the outer surface of the bone," where it is deposited beneath the periosteum ; but he also admits that tlie peri- osteum, the surrounding soft parts, and "even newly formed vascular tissue," are capable of con- tributing to the formation of bone.] That, however, the periosteum is frequently the sole organ of the reproduction of bone, seems proved by the experiments of Troja, Blumenbach, Desault, Koehler, and Stanlej', since in these the bones were invariably regenerated, though there was nothing left by which they could be furnished, except the periosteum. [Charmeil's beautiful series of experiments upon pigeons, seem to be conclusive on this point, that if tlie periosteum be not the sole reparative agent in bone, it can, unaided, reproduce the lost piece en- tirely. {Recherclies sur les Metastases, 1821.) He admits, however, that the soft parts around contribute, though much more feebly, to the os- seous re-formation.] Mr. Stanley repeated Troja's experiment, which consisted in destroying the medullary texture, and thus producing death in the walls of a bone to the extent of the injury done to its medullary texture. The periosteum, quitting its hold of the dead bone, now became the formative organ of the new, the os- seous matter of which was secreted by the internal surface of that membrane ; "and in this way, the same periosteum which had covered the old bone, wa3 become the periosteum of the new." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xx. p. 578.) Dr. Macartney's observations nearly agree ■with those of Troja and Weidmann, respecting the formation of new bone by the pefiosteum, with this difference, however, that he does not describe the original periosteum as becoming afterwards attached to the new bone, but as disappearing. Dr Macartney remarks, " that the first and most im- portant circumstance is the change which takes experiment— the old bone, until the whole, or .1 part of it, Is place in the organization of the periosteum: this membrane acquires the highest degree of vascular- ity, becomes considerably thickened, soft, spongy, and loosely adherent to the bone. The cellular substance, also, which is immediately connected with the periosteum suffers a similar alteration : it puts on the appearance of being inflamed, its ves- sels enlarge, lympli is shed into its interstices, and it become°s consolidated with the periosteum. These changes are preparatory to the absorption of the old bone, and the secretion of the new osseous matter, and even previous to the death of the bone, which is to be removed. In one instance, I found the periosteum vascular and pulpy, wlien the only affection was a small abscess of the medulla, the bone still retaining its connexion with the_neigh- bouring parts as it readily received injection. The newly organized periosteum, &c., separates entirely from the bone, after which it begins to remove the latlor by absorption and while this is going on, its inner surface becomes covered with little eminences, resembling granulations. " In proportion as the old bone ia removed, new osseous matter is dispersed in the substance of the granulations, whilst they continue to grow upon completely absorbed, according to the circum- stances of the case. What remains of the invest- ment, after the absorption of the old bone and- the formation of the osseous tube which is to replace it, degenerates, loses its vascularity, and appears like a lacerated membrane. I have never had an opportunity of examining a limb, a suffi- cient time after the termination of the disease, to ascertain, whether the investment be at last totally absorbed, but, in some instances, I have seen very little remaining. During the progress of the dis- ease, the thickened cellular substance, which sur- rounded the original periosteum, becomes gradually thinner ; its vessels diminish, and it adheres strictly to the new-formed bone, to which it ultimately serves as a periosteum." (See Crotvther on White &i;e/K«^, p. 183, ed. 2.) However, Mr. Stanley showed me a preparation, which tends to confirm the accuracy of Troja's ac- count of the old periosteum becoming adherent to the new bone. In this example, the periosteum is perfectly continuous with that covering the epi- physes. If this were not the fact, we should have to explain in what way the periosteum of the new bone is formed. We know that the vessels of the original periosteum enter the new bone, in order to complete its formation ; and it seems more conso- nant with the uniform simplicity of nature's opera- tions, to suppose that this connexion is kept up, than that the old periosteum should be totally re- moved, after the production of the new bone, and another membrane of the same kind be then generated. An interesting example of necrosis of the thigh- bone, published by my friend Mr. Copland Hutchison, tends also to prove, tliat the new os- seous shell is commonly formed by the periosteum, as, in this case, the medullary tissue was found completely ossified {Practical Ohs. in Surgery, p. 135), and could not therefore be supposed to be capable of the v/ork. Dr. M'Donald deserves to be mentioned as one of the most -distinguished advo- cates for the truth of Troja's explanation of this subject. (See M'-DonakVs Thesis de Nenvsi ac Calio ; Edinb. 1799.) Another writer has adduced many arguments to prove that the pulpy mass, which extends from one epiphysis to the other, and is itself at last converted into bone, is formed quite independently both of the original bone and of the periosteum. (See PusseU's Practical Essay on Necrosis, p. 27. Edinb. 1795.) This account, however, is contrary to the observations of Troja, David, Weidmann, M'Donald, Macartney, and numerous other observers. Indeed, Mr. Hutchi- son seems to think the periosteum so essential to the formation of a new bone, that he attempts to explain the cause of fractures of the patella not becoming united by a bony substauce, by advert- in"- to the deficiency of periosteum upon it ; a cir- cumstance, which he deems also a strong argument against Mr. Russell's doctrine. (See Practical Ohs. in Surgery, p. 141, 142.) These very same cases, however, fractures ot the patella, do sometimes unite by bone, and, therefore, while Mr. Hutchison is urging them as facts against Mr. Russell's opinion-that tl.c peri- osteum takes no part in the regeneration of bone- Baron Larrey is actually adducing them m support: of this very theory. (S<^o.Journ. CompUm, da Diet des Sciences Mid. t. .via.) The experiments of