NECROSIS, others nilopted tlie same iden. (Soo Adversaria Mai. Pract. vol. iii. p. G3. Si/slcmalio Elements "J Suryeiy,'p. 287. Thcsanr. 'Oss. A/orb. p. ].) Van Swieten conceived tliat the dead part was forced away by the incessant beating of the arte- ries. {Comment, in Apltor. Boerhavii, § 252.) M. Fabre ascribed the separation to the extension and expansion of the vessels. (Mem. de VAcad. de C/iir. t. iv. p. 9\.) Others supposed that tlie exfoliating piece of bone became loosened partly by the suppuration, and partly by the rising of the neiv granulations. (See B. Bell on Ulcers.) As Weidmaun observes, there is unquestionably a reddish Jleshi/ substance formed betivcen the dead and living bone, and which Celsus has noticed under the appellation of caruncula. {DeMedicina, lib. viii. cap. 3.) But it would be erroneous to re- fer the expulsion of the dead portion of bone to it, since it can never be produced before a change has taken place in the structure of bone, there being in fact no space for it to grow in ; and hence It 13 never seen before the disunion of the parts has considerably advanced. There must consequently be some other power, which destroys the cohesion between the dead and living bone, and produces the groove or interspace, in which the soft granu- lations arise. Besides, amongst other facts proving the falsity of the idea that the granulations push oit the dead bone, Weidmann particularly adverts to the occasional exfoliation of the whole circum- • jerence of a cylindrical bone. Here, if the granu- lations had the power of causing a disunion on one • side, they could not have the same effect on the od- posite_ one, but would tend to make the contact more intimate. [It would appear, however, that the granulations may take some action in the extrusion of the dead bone when it is completely detached from the liv- ing, although they are not the agents by which the separation is effected. {Stanlcij, op. cit. p. 93.)] The separation cannot take place by the pulsa- tion of the small arteries, nor by the weak expan- sive motion of the vessels of the bone. Weidmann knows not what motives have induced certain w-nters to impute the result to suppuration, and observes, that as the doctrine is not founded upon reasoning, it is superfluous to offer any arguments against it. If the least attention be paid to what nature really tries and accomplishes in this opera- tion, nothing will be more manifest, than that It IS completed in a very different manner. Swell- ing first affects the periosteum and bone, which by degrees softens. (Vid. Troja, passim; Bonn, Thesaur. Oss. Morbos, ^. J22, and Weidmann de ^Vecrosi Osstum, tab. 4. Jigs. 1 and 3.) At the margins of the necrosis, the bony surfaces, which were smooth, become rough and irregular. A fissure ,3 there produced, which extends in every be detached. Ihe bony texture is also daily ren- de d le,. solid so that the number of adhesions between the dead and living parts diminish, and in the end are totally destroyed. Weidmann the explains Uiat the true mod^ by which tl'Tepan ! tion IS effected, consists in the absorption ot' the par icles .situated betwixt the living and de d pans 0 the bone, in Mich a way, however, that the first loses a great deal of its substance : tlm last scarcely any thing. (P. 2.5.) Afte; the ac.m bone has come away, the swelling of the neighbouring periosteum subsides, and the living 329 [Hunter supposed that the earthy material of the living bone,wliich IS in contact with the de.ad pa t " first absorbed, and afterwards the animal rons 'tu out, so that a groove is formed between the livin' and dead tissues, which gradually deepens until the necrosed portion is entirely detached, the dead piece of^bone undergoing no change or alteration in size. {Hunter s Works by Palmer, vol. iv. p 310) Ihis opinion as to the successive absorption of the inorganic and organic elements of bone, and its consequent softening before the groove of separa- tion has formed, has not been confirmed • as ex TmI^^'I "T' ^^I^^Btrum', before" s final detachment, is always connected with the ■ est of the bone by true osseous tissue. Pa^et however, inclines to this view of Hunter's as to he softening of the bone before its separation {Surg. vol. i.) The very importan? agencv ascribed by Hunter to the absorptive process in de aching the dead bone from the living gone nily admitted; although whether this operation akes place by means of the lymphatic system, as Hunter taught, or is due to the absorbent powe of the blood vessels, as stated by the more nmder, p.athoIog,sts, isyet a matter of doubt. RokitaS fwtL '."-^°' -°^ "P'"'°"=' considS that the disjunctive process is caused by a "solution of the layer of healthy bone adjoining the dead W that in the attendant formation of granulations I find enough to account for the demarc" ion n;,d separation of the sequestrum: and the Sp io.J f a IJion "'"'Z't °" the borders Of a poition of necrosed bone, I hold to be incom- patible with the inflammatory process M Z T^Mn- f '''''^ inadmissible." Although at variance with other observers as to 3 et agrees with them in regarding the process of exfoliation as precisely similar to the senarat^-nn of a slough from the soft parts, regard bei" I to the differences in the tissues. (See also tonncal and PatMogical Observations!by /Zd II. Goodstr, Edin. 1045.) I When a piece of dead bone is under-oine ne- bstan e";nd t """'y^ . JOstance, and, as such, proves a source of irritation to the adjoining surface of the living bone wh ch be comes inflamed, and acquires increased ^ cularitv AtZflim-'olr^'^" """"'^ "'^ affec;;" p t At this line of demarcation between the liv no- n„d dead bone, a groove forms, deepens, and iSueh causes the separation of the necrosed pic a ffi process IS effected as follows : the health I'one sur rounding the diseased part is everywhei-e c , Jy inflanied, and lymph is poured out from the eiw gorged vessels within the Haversian canals so as to fill up completely these bony channels. This exiKlation, together with the distended blood vessels, exerts pressure upon the osseous tissue a Id causes Us absorption ; by this means th« layersian canals become gradually enlarged, and their walls thinned, until at last they ^„ ir^ J disappear. AVhilst these phenomena L ta £ place, the primitive vcs.sels of the bone ex-to d ...to the ellused lymph; this becomes organized a d forms a mass of small vascuh.r granulation , wl" J