fi 2 fluid, and the proper working of the instrumeuta within its cavity is greatly impeded, A sacculated condition of the bladder presents a serious, if not an insurmountable obstacle, to the performance of the operation, in all cases where the stone is impacted in the sac, or for the most part contained within it. Even when we do succeed in partially breaking up the calculus, the effects are of a formidable kind. . Sir B. Brodie relates a case, in his own practice, which illustrates the difficulty of freeing the bladder when such an obstacle exists. The calculus had been crushed, but much irritation of the bladder remained; the patient died after some months; a fasciculated and sacculated condition of the bladder was found, and a fragment of the calculus impacted in one of the sacculi. {Med, Chir. Trans. : 1. c.) It seems almost unnecessary to remark that ex- cessive size and hardness of the stone constitute obstacles which cannot be overcome without much risk. In order to crush the stone, the operator must be able to seize it between the blades of his forceps; but hardness alone is not an absolute impediment, provided^ the other conditions be favourable. A correct knowledge of the obstacles which the surgeon may meet with in the performance of lithotrity is necessary to a right understanding of many of the accidents which sometimes occur during the operation and after it. At an early period, when lithotrity was in its infancy, many accidents, such as laceration of the urethra, injury to the bladder, were of frequent occurrence; but that these depended rather on the operator than on the operation is proved by the fact that they sel- dom occur at the present day. On the other hand, it is evident that such an operation as li- tliotrity, performed for the cure of a serious and often long standing complaint, must occasionally give rise to certain accidents which are legiti- mately attributable to it. These are of a local or general kind. Pain, hemorrhage, suppression and retention of urine, are the chief local acci- dents connected with lithotrity; while the consti- tutional effects may be comprised under rigors, febrile attacks, and disturbance of the nervous system. The operation of lithotrity always produces more or less uneasy sensations; but when it has been properly conducted, and the patient is in a favour- able condition, the amount of pain is usually so trifling that it need hardly be taken into account. Excessive pain, whenever it does occur, should lead the operator to suspect either that the case is not suited for lithotrity or that there is some defect in his mode of operating. In a few cases, however, a peculiar sensibility of the neck of the bladder causes the manipulation to be attended with a great degree of suffering. More or less loss of blood from the urethra or bladder was formerly a frequent occurrence, from some nijury inflicted on these parts; but like those accidents which rather depend on the operator than on the operation, haemorrhage now seldom takes place, at least to any considerable degree. In some cases, where the mucous membrane of the bladder has been for a long time in a state of congestion, any strong action of the organ is apt to be attended with exudation of blood from the mucous surfaces. However slight in itself, this form of hremorrhage nust not be neglected, for the coagula may give LITHOTRITY. rise to retention of urine, or by entangling the fragments of the calculus, may impede their dis- charge from the bladder. The evacuation of these coagula will be assisted by the frequent injection of tepid water; but when they depend on the effusion of blood from its mucous surface connected with violent action of the bladder, it will be neces- sary to keep that organ in a state of repose, with the aid of the catheter. The condition of the bladder, not only after the first manipulation, but during the whole course of the operation of lithotrity, should be constantly watched by the careful surgeon, for retention of urine may supervene at any period ; and hence the practical rule, never to be neglected, that the ope- rator should determine after each manipulation, whether or no the bladder is able to expel the fluid which may be contained in it. The causes of this retention may be mechanical, but more frequently they may be traced to a spas- modic condition of the urinary passages, or to slug- gishness and partial paralysis of the bladder. The latter cause is the more serious, as it is often attended by a sub-acute inflammatory state of the bladder ; and any long continued retention of urine may then be attended by the most disastrous re- sults. It will seldom be advisable, in these cases, to leave a catheter permanently in the bladder; but the iirine must be drawn off as often as it accu- mulates. In a few rare cases complete suppression of urine ensues. In the present state of our knowledge it is impossible to account for the occurrence of this fatal accident, which may probably be traced to some latent affection of the kidneys. It will, however, be observed that in the records of fatal cases, a certain number is set down to coma, an effect evidently dependent on suppression of urine. The constitutional accidents of lithotrity are rigors, febrile attacks, and disturbance of the nervous sys- tem. SirB. Brodie insists on the propriety of our avoiding everything which may create rigor. This symptom is likely to occur if the operations be pro- longed too much, or if the urethra be over-stretched. To obviate the danger of rigor he advises, ' that the patient should be immediately placed in bed; with an additional blanket over him, the bed itself being previously warmed in cold weather.' A tum- bler of hot wine and water or of brandy and water which Sir B. Brodie considers preferable to an opiate, should also be given. In some cases these rigors are the forerunners of pya;mia Of the general effects of lithotrity, irritative fever is the most frequent. It is usually ushered in after the first sitting by rigors, but these may show themselves after any of the subsequent ope- rations. Generally the feverish attack disappears in two or three days ; but, on the other li:md it may hang about the patient for some time, returning regulariy after each sitting. In many cases the febrile attack simply consists in shivering, followed by perspiration, and nothing more ; or the patient may experience a single shivering fit, without consecutive perspiration. This form is probably rather connected with shock than irritation. In other cases, soon after the first operation a violent shivering fit sets in ; this either terminates in sweating and recommences, or is followed by febrile action, loss of sleep, thirst, and diminution of strength. Or we may have another form of a more unfavourable character : the rigor is short and