293 MERCURY. and opium to (irocure sleep. The latter medicine sometimes does most good when joijied with cam- phor, (ir Huffman's anodyne liquor. Sarsaparilhi and bark may be given when tiie dischar;;e is nn longer ichorous, and tlie tumefaction has subsided. Diluted sulpliuric acid has seemed to give relief. The diet may be light and nutritive, without fermented liquors, however, till the desquamation has somewluit advanced. P'rcquent use of tlie ■warm bath, and often changing the patient's linen and sheets, which soon become stitF and rough with the discharge, afford much benefit. If the warm bath cannot be had, jMr. Pearson advises washing the body very tenderly with warm-water gruel; he also covers parts, from which the cuticle is detached, with a mild cerate, and renews the application twice a day. (P. 17!!.) Dr. M'Mullin advises tile immediate discon- tinuance of mercury, the r-.'moval of the patient from wards where this mineral is in use, emetics and diaphoretics; but on account of the very irritable state of the bowels, ho says antimonials are hardly admissible, and tliat when purgatives are indicated, only the mildest ones, such as castor- oil, sulphate of magnesia, &c. ought to be given. He ndvisfs mucilaginnus dranglits with opium for relieving the soreness of the fauces; in the second stage, the cold infusion of baric, with aromatics and opium, or (what is more to the purpose) wine, porter, &c.; to relieve the ophthalmia tarsi, the ungui'uium oxidi zinci, and to appease the painful sensation of the skin cracking, the linimentum calcis, which should be liberally applied as soon as trusts appear. Consult Essay on a Peculiar Eruptive Dieease aris- ing; from the ExliiUition of Mercury, by G. Alley, 8vo. Dublin, 1S0+ ; also Obs. on the Hydrarg:yria, or tuat .Vesicular Disfase arisins from the Exhibition of Mer- cury, 4to. Lend. 1810. A Description of the Mer- curial Lppra, by Dr. Moriarti/, V2mo. Dublin, 1804. Spens and jl/'il/u/Z/n in Edinburgh .Vied, and Surgical Journal, Nos. 1. and 5. Pearson on Lues Venerea, ed. 2. Bateman's Synopsis, p. 256, &c. ed. 3. Frictions with 3Icrcurial Ointment. [Fresh mercurial ointment is composed of finely- divided mercury, lard, and suet; when kept for some time, it contains a larger or smaller pro- portion of proto.xide of the metal combined with Bcbacic acid. The metallic mercury penetrates tlie organic textures when rubbed in as ointment. It can always readily lie discovered in the epidermis, coriuin, and subcutaneous areolar tissue, at tlie site of inunction. In animals thus treated the evi- dence of metallic globules in internal orgai.s, particularly in the intestines, liver, and kidne_\s, can moreover be easily established. In man, the mercury lias been detected in the saliva, urine, and tlie cutaneous exlialation. It lias also been found in tlie bruin, lungs, liver, and in the blood. TI.e metal in mercurial ointment is in the nust simple and least combined form of all its preparations, and hence it is believed not only generally to operate with more mildness on the system, but with more specific effect nn tlio disciise. Dr. Signiund of Vienna, a strenuous ndvocnte of this plan of treatment {Anweimiicj zur Einrcibmiys- kur), advises, by way of preparation, that tlie pa- tient should remain witliiii doors for some six or ten days before commencing inunction, should observe a light unirritant diet, and by repeated balhiiit; render tin; skin more susceptible for the absorption Qf the mercury. The ointment is to be rubbed in the last thing in the evening, upon the inner and hinder surface of the limbs, by the patient's own hand, for not less than ten minutes at each sitting. The part is then to be covered with a linen or woollen cloth, cleansed the following morning by- washing, carefully dried, and kept warm. Dr. Sig- nuind advises suitable change of body and bed- linen; the apartment to be duly aired, and kept at a temperature of from 68° to 72° Falir. Tlie quantity of ointment to be employed each time is from 20 to 40 grains, which must be distributed over two different surfaces of skin. The average duration of the course of treatment is from twenty to thirty days, or until all trace of the disease has disappeared. The patient is to observe a light nutritious diet. The most favourable seasons of the year for following out the practice are spring .and summer. In the cases of children born with syphilis, Sir B. Brodie recommends the following method of employing inunction as eminently successful {Lec- tures itlusirative of Various Subjects in Palhologii and Suryery, p. 245):—He directs a flannel roller to be procured, on one end of which some mercurial ointment, say a drachm or more, is to be spread. The roller, thus prepared, is to be applied, not very tight, round the knee, repeating the applica- tion daily. The motions of the child produce the necessary friction; and the cuticle being thin, the mercury easily enters the sv'stem. The objections to the plan of treatment, by fric- tions with mercurial ointment, are its uncleanli- ness and other inconveniences.] Mercurial Fumiyations. This method is one of the most ancient plans of affecting the constitutiiin with mercury, and Aber- nethy has stated circumstances in its favour, which seemed to make it occasionally an eligible mode. He was of opinion, that if the peculiar advantages of mercurial fumigations were generally known to practitioners, they would be much more frequently- employed. The advantages of the method con- sist in its affecting the constitution, when other means fail, and in producing its effects in a much shorter time than any other mode. This celerity of operation, when venereal ulceration was making great ravages in the palate and throat, was partieu- larly insisted upon as a most desirable circumstance. For patients who had not strength to rub in oint- ment, and whose bowels would not bear the in- ternal exhibition of mercury, fumigation was also deemed highly advantageous. "In the year 1770 the Chevalier Lalouetle, a physician at Paris, laid before the public an account of a new mode of mercurial fumigation, free from the inconveniences of former ones, and which, in the space of thirty-five years, he had successfullv cmployed in more than four iuindied cases tliat had resisted all the ordinary methods of cure. His method consisted in inclosing the patient, pre- viously undressed, in a kind of box resembling a sedan-chair, with an opening at the top to let out the head, and another at the bottom, to which was fitted a small grate or furnace, having in it a heated iron fur converting the mercurial remedy iulo fume. The preparation he made use of was obtained from calomel, which by repeated sublima- tion from iron filings, was so far deprived of its chlorine, as to be in part reduced into niuning quicksilver, and, while it possessed considernblo