880 TJTERUS, INVERSION OF. urine and ftecea. The dysury and constipation in- crease in proportion as the patient continues in an xipright posture, and the uterus descends nearer to tlie inferior orifice of the vagina. The irritation brings on a considerable mucous discharge, which, wlien the patient suffers little otlier inconvenience from the prolapsus, is apt to be mistaken for fluor albus or gonorrhoea. A woman may become pregnant, notwithstand- ing an incomplete prolapsus of the womb. The displacement may even take place at a more or less advanced period of gestation {Purtal,des Ac- coitclumens); while, in other still more uncommon instances, the prolapsus has been remarked to dis appear when the period of labour drew near. Cases exemplifying both these facts are related by Loder (Jouin. fiir die Chir. b. ii. p. 13), by Sa- -viard, Portal (Mim. de VAcad. de Chir. t. in.), in the Journ. de Me'Jecine, t. xlv., and by Chopart {Tmiie. des Maladies des Voies urinaires). A prolapsus uieri may also happen during parturi- tion. (GarjH, Joarn. de Mid. continue, t. iv. p. 265 ; Ducreiu, Man. de I'Acad, de Chir. t. viii. p. 393.) . , , When in the course of time the prolapsus uteri changes from the incomplete to the complete state, all the inconveniences depending upon tlie pressure of the part upon the rectum and bladder subside ; that is to say, the fteces and urine are now freely voided. But, on the other hand, the symptoms, arising from the stretching of the peritoneum, be- come considerably worse. The uterus drags do\yn ■ with it the vagina, which becomes doubled on it- self • and a part of the bladder connected with the upper part of the latter lube is also drawn down, borne of the abdominal viscera may even fall into the cul-de-sac formed by the vagina, and consi- derably increase the size of the tumor. The swelling, protruding between the thighs, is of an obloiK', nearly cylindrical form, and terminates below°in a narrow e.xtiemity, in which a transverse opening, the os tinea;, may be discerned, from Avhich the menses are discharged at the periods prescribed by nature. However, the cylindrical shape of the tumor may lead to mistakes; tor the vatrina, being doubled on itself, and exposed to the effects of the air, sometimes looks like skin. Hence women thus afflicted have occasionally been sup- posed to be hermaphrodites, the tumor being mis- taken for a penis. Such a case is recorded by Saviard. ,, , . , , The patient is generally troubled with tenesmus and sometimes feels acute pain in the tumor itself, which is subject to inflame and ulcerate in conse- quence of its depending po.ture, the friction to wliich it is exposed, and the irritation of the urine. The direction both of the bladder and urethra becomes horizontal, so that the urine is tiirown forwards, or even upwards ; in which latter case it wets the abdomen. Frequently the bladder cannot be emptied without the assistance of the catheter ; and sometimes the displaced uterus be- comes affected with inflammation and swelling. In many cases there are profuse hfeuiorihages. However, some women become so habituated to the disease, that they hardly seem to experience any annoyance from it ; whenever they are in an erect posture, and walk about, the womb falls down, bringing with it the vagina ; and as soon as they lie down on their backs, the parts as readily return into ihcir natural position again. The displacement of the fundus of the bladder ia the inevitable consequence of the connection of the bladder to the vagina and uterus. The quick or gradual way, however, in which the prolapsus has occurred, will make great difference in the degree of such displacement. A slowly formed prolapsus allows the cellular tissue connecting the vagina and bladder to yield, while a sudden prolapsus leaves no time for it. In one case, where the whole of the fundus of the bladder had been dragged down, M. Cruveilhier found in the displaced portion a large calculus ; and in another instance, recorded by M. J. Cloquet, there were two calculi. Calculi, when met with, are usually in the displaced portion of the bladder ; but M. Cruveilhier lately met with a case, in which the whole cavity of the undisplaced part of it was filled by a calculus, and the other part of it was free from them. According to the researches of Cruveilhier, the deviation of the meatus urinarius from its proper course, in cases of prolapsus uteri, is less the effect of the displacement of the bladder than of the anterior paries of the vagina. This change may occasion retention of urine ; and the very consider- able size of the bladder, which Cruveilhier has constantly noticed in these cases, he regards as a proof of the difficulty experienced in passing the urine. Tlie alteration in the course of the urethra sometimes makes the introduction of a catheter very difficult; and when this instrument or a probe is introduced into that canal, it is found to pass downwards into the substance of the tumor to a greater or less extent, according to the degree of prolapsus. This is accurately represented in the 10th plate of the work of Madame Boivin and Professor Duges. One of the most remarkable circumstances at- tending a prolapsus uteri, is the elongation which this organ undergoes. Cruveilhier has invariably observed it, and it is correctly represented in a plate published by M. J. Cloquet. (See Cruveil- hier, Anat. pathol. t. i. livr. 16, pp. 1-5; and J. Cloquet, Pathol, chir. pi. 8, fig. 3, 4to Pans, 1831.) This elongation chiefly occurs in the pomt of junction between the body and the neck of the womb, and is accompanied by a striking con- traction or increased narrowness of the part. Cruveilhier, in the second volume of his great work on pathological anatomy (livr. xxvi.), gives another plate, and additional observations, explana- tory of the changes in the relation of parts occa- sioned by the inversion of the vagina or p.olapsus of the uterus. It appears from his researchers that sometimes the elongation, and sometimes the de- pression, of the uterus exists in the greater degree. He has met with cases in which the lengthening of the uterus was so considerable, that when the part was viewed within the pelvis, it seemed as U it occupied its right situation. The co-existence of an inversion or doubling of the vagma, without anv displacement of the womb, which has onij undergone an elongation, seems to him to pro that, fn certain cases at least, the -iif the uterus has its beginning in the foregomg change of the vagina. This latter becomes nver ea on itself, just like the finger of .n glove, bj a me chanism precisely like that which takes , Ue >.i intestinal invaginations. " If (observes Pufcs r Cruveilhier) w'e look upon the -vU^ ^ ,f, ™ as a continuation of the parietes ol tuc