of such a power. The bee, wasp, linrnet, ihe mos- quito, the tsetse, the scorpion, various centipedes and spiders (especially the tarantula katipo ami tenderaman^ are more or less injurious. In the case of the bee, wasp, and hornet, the poison is stoied in a venom-sac in the abdomen, at the root of a pair of fine pointed weapons, which are enclosed in an outer sheath, and by these darts the wound is made. Occasionally, the stmg is left adherent to the surface, being torn off from the body of the insect. The sting of the scorpion consists of a perforated claw at the end of the tail, connected with venom-glands. As a rule no danger to human life attends the sting ol any of these animals , but in certain conditions and circumstances they may create much irritation. Some persons are peculiarly sensitive to the effects of these poisons, and when in weak health all rany snifer severely. The sting of a common bee m the mouth, or throat, or neck, may cause most dangerous effects; and multiple stings, even on the surface, have occasioned rapid death. The conse- quences are said to be most violent in the heat of summer, and when the insects are roused to anger. Fainlness, sickness, giddiness, dimness of sight, and general oppression, are the effects complained of. In Africa and Asia, where scorpions of large size exist, great danger may follow their sting; in Eurone the effects are similar to that of bees, but somewhat more marked. No allusion need be here made to the apocryphal narrations regarding the eifects of the bite of the tarantula, the poetic descriptions long received being now ex- ploded. Many venomous snakes exist whose stroke is most deadly. They possess a sharp incurved hol- low tooth in each upper maxilla, which, when not in action, is laid backwards, but can be quickly erected for offence. These teeth communicate with a sac supplied by a poison-gland within the orbit, and the venom is pressed out through the canal in the fang when it is driven into the tissue. This venom is described as a viscous greenish fluid, of neutral reaction, and almost without smell, and containing a peculiar principle ("viperine," or "ecliidnine "). The rattlesnake, the copperhead, the cobra, the water moccasin, &c., are the best known of the ve- nomous snakes. The symptoms which follow the stroke or liite of a snake are both local and consti- tutional. The limb swells, and the neighbourhood of the wound becomes red and irritable, while the lymphatics, and veins leading from it, become the seat of inflammation. Vesicles frequently form around the point inoculated, and get filled wiiii bloody serum. The pain varies much in different cases, being occasionally slight, but often most severe. Tlie subcutaneous cellular tissue gets in- filtrated, and mortification may appear before death. The constitutional symptoms frequently arise with great rapidity and vio'ence, so that the local are but little regarded. The nervous and the circu- latory systems give token of being gravely affected. There is paleness, prostration, dimness of vision, sickness, bilious stools, trembling, and delirium, stupor, (ir even unconsciousness. The surface gets ciild, and bedewed with sweat. The pulse gets feeble and intermitting, tlie respiration o|>- pressed, and there is much anxiety. The surface may become yellow, and abscesses may form (if the patient lives long enough) in the cellular tissue WOUNDS. of the limb and trunk. The poison which is ca- pable of producing such terrible effects when inoculated, is harmless when swallowed, or when applied to the unbroken skin. If the supply of venom is exhausted by the serpent having recently repeatedly expelled it, the effects are greatly less severe, and may even fail altogether to appear. If the fang enters a considerable blood- vessel, then the destructive influence is intensified. Wounds of the face and trunk are the most dan- gerous, and the more venom introduced the more powerful and rapid the effect. After death various appearances have been ascribed to the septic action of the poison. None of these are constant, though a dark and fluid state of the blood has been often noted, as well as congestion of the lungs and brain, and a'loaded state of the right side of the heart. The vipers of this country rarely cause harm, unless young children or feeble and old persons are bitten by them; and even then, dangerous symp- toms have been rarely met with. But besides the poisons above alluded to, wounds may be complicated by the presence of other poisons secreted by some animals when diseased. Thus, hydrophobia'(which see), arising chiefly in members of the canine and equine tribes, may be inoculated on man, and glanders can be propagated in like manner to man, and by him communicated to his fellows. Disseclion Wounds.—^eii bodies beget a septic poison which when inoculated produces special, and often most disastrous consequences, and differs yet again from those poisons already described. There is°reason to believe that this virus is most potent at a period before putrefaction has made any way, and it appears to be more powerful when derived from persons dying of certain diseases, more especially those marked by diffuse unhealthy inflammations, as puerperal peritonitis. The condition of the recipient, too, greatly influences the results of ino- culation; as, if in health, and of good constitution, he runs a vastly better chance of escaping the more violent effects, than if he is feeble, over-worked, or intemperate. A very minute amount of the poison is capable, in many cases, of occasioning the most powerful results,but many persons resist its effects in a marvellous manner. Fortunately, in most instances of dissection wounds, no evil effects follow, or at worst only trifling local irritation; but when cir- cumstances favour the more pernicious development of the poison, then a train of the most serious local and constitutional symptoms appear. A vesicle, or pustule, forms at the wounded spot, and un- healthy inflammation seizes upon the veins, lym- phatics and cellular tissue of the limb, causing it to become red, hot, boggy, and painful. The glands enlarge, and suppuration of a circumscribed or dif- fused character follows in the limb, and possibly on the trunk, and utter disorganisation may result. The constitutional effects often set in quickly, and with much severity. Chills, followed by fever, at first, and for a short time, inflammatory in type, but quickly assuming the typhoid or irritative form. The period at which the patient begins to suffer varies from twelve hours to teveral days. There is commonly severe headache,nausea,racking pains, sleeplessness, delirium, much depression, dyspmsa, and other evidences of profound constitutional in- volvement. The local .symptoms may be but little marked, and attract slight attention, so completely arc they overshadowed by the condition of the