RICKETS. £44 prirticuliiily these last, are swelled out into knobs." That the ends of the bones may become thus ex- panded, seems to be proved by the case published by Mr. Thomas Brayne. (See Trans, of Pruvincial Med. Association^ vol. iii ) In this instance, tiie enlargement of the articular ends of the larger joints is extreme, and the engraved representation of the patient very curious. [Expansion of the articular ends of the long bones is very constant in rickets, and many authors regard this deformity as the first indication of the disease. Gerdy thinks rotation of the spine is a more frequent symptom of rickets than articular enlargement, and states that when this swelling occurs it is situated around the free end of the epiphysis and not at the point of junction be- t.veen it and the shaft of the bone, as some have asserted; indeed, there is often here a constriction. Stanley and others maintain that articular swel- ling occurs only in those bones which are thinly covered by sofi parts; but Jenner claims this lesion as one of the most striking in rickets, affecting the ends of those bones which are deeply placed equally with those which are more exposed.] When the thoracic viscera are considerably op- pressed by the alteration in the figure of the cliest, produced by rickets, the disease may bring on fatal consequences. [In rickets the thorax is often much deformed, and its capacity greatly diminished, especially in the lateral diameter; the angles of the ribs are bent abruptly both from above downwards and from behind forwards, so as to form a very acute angle, from which the body of the rib passes forwards and inwards to the sternum, causing a great pro- jection of this bone, and presenting the condition known as pigeon breast. Rokitansky states that this deformity is due to a want of power in the inspiratory muscles to expand the cavity of the chest. Jenner excludes muscular action from anj' direct share in the production of thoracic deformity, but attributes it to atmospheric pressure, aided by the elasticity of the lungs and the softening and consequent loss of resilience in the ribs. Accord- ing to Broca, muscular action and a habitual vicious position must be added to the pressure of the at- mosphere upon the softened bones. If there be lateral deflexion of the spine as well, the deformity of the chest is very great, and its space encroached upon to such a degree as to produce injurious and often fatal pressure of the viscera. The pelvis is not unfrcquently distorted and its cavity contracted by projection of the promon- tory of the sacrum and folding back of the pubes upon that bone. When this occurs, the brim or upper aperture may be so much narrowed as to render the passage of a fcEtus through it impossible; and tiie encroachment upon the pelvic cavity is sometimes so great as to force the bladder and uterus upwards into the abdomen. Sir Henry Thompson relates an instance where, from this cause, the ex- traction of a calculus in the operation of lithotomy was a matter of extreme difficulty. {Med. C/iir. Trans, vol. xlvii.) This form of distortion is the result of pressure upon the softened or imperfectly ossified bones, and therefore commences in early life. The pelvis may also be much twisted without alteration in the size of its cavity; this is owing to a deviation of the spine, or a diminution in length, or some other deformity of the lower extremity, occasioned by rickets. When the cranium is affected in very )-oung subjects, enlargement of its cavity may result, and sometimes to a very considerable extent. The process of ossification being retarded in this disease, closure of the fontanelles and union of the sutures are prevented; the continuous pulsation of the brain may therefore cause a gradual separation of the bones of the skull, and the size of the head thereby becomes increased until it presents the ap- pearance of hydrocephalus. Gerdy asserts that the cranial bones are rarely involved in this dis- ease, and then only to a very slight degree; whilst Stanley states that the head in rickety children is generally below the standard dimensions in con- sequence of an arrest of growth in the bones, and particularly in those of the face. In common with the other flat bones, those of the skull, when affected with rickets, become en- larged from expansion of their cancelli and thicken- ing of the pericranium covering them; this condi- tion takes place mostly along the growing margins of the bone, so that in the cranium the thickening is found at or near the sutures, and it may remain permanent after recovery from the disease. Duges has remarked that the natural protuberances of the skull are often much exaggerated from expan- sion of their cancelli, whilst the compact tissue forming their walls is thinner than usual. {Did. de Med. ei. Chir. Prat. Art. Rachilisme.)'] Boyer has thus described the appearances of rickety bones:—They are lighter than natural, and of a red or brown colour. They are penetrated by many enlarged blood-vessels, being porous, and as it were spong}', soft, and compressible. They are moistened by a kind of sanies, which may be pressed out of their texture, as out of a sponge, or rather a macerated hide after it has been tanned. The walls of the medullary cylinder of the great bones of the extremities are very thin, while the bones of the skull are considerably increased in thickness, and become spongy and reticular. All tlie affected bones, especially the long ones, acquire a remarkable suppleness ; but, if they are bent beyond a certain point, they break, &c. Instead of being filled with medulla, the medullary cavity of the long bones contains only a reddish serum, totally devoid of the fat oily nature of the otlier secretion in the natural state. (Traite dcs Mala- dies Chir. t. iii. p. 619.) The consistence of seve- ral rickety bones, examined by Mr. Stanley, was nearly that of common cartilage. They presented throughout an areolated texture, and the cells were in some parts large, and contained a brownish ge- latinous substance. This gentleman did not find the periosteum thickened, as Bichat has described it. {Anatomie Ghierale, t. iii.) The investigations of Mr. Stanley also prove that, in the process by which rickety bones acquire strength and solidity, there is always an undeviating regularit)- in the situation, extent, and direction of the deposited earthy matter. "Thus it is obvious (says this gen- tleman) that, in the curved bone, the part where there is the greatest need of strength, to prevent its further yielding, is in the middle of its con- cavity, or, in other words, in the line of its interior curve ; and it is just in this situation that strength and compactness will be first imparted to the bone by the deposition of phosphate of lime. It will be further found, that the greatest resistance being wanted at this part, the walls arc accordingly ren- dered thicker here than elsewhere, and the degree