complete clinical study of patliological growths such as tumoi-s; hut, althoiij;h it does not (now) pre- tend to direct oiir clinical conclusions, it constantly furnishes tile most valuable information, and en- ables us to define and classify the various forms of growth and to record with precision the anatomical ciiaracter side by side with the clinical symptoms. Paget, in iiis groat work on surgical pathology, laid the foundation of the science in this country; Virchow, Rokitansky, and Lebeit are his promi- nent rivals abroad. The foundation of the Patho- logical Society of London has done much to keep alive a spirit of scientific investigation in surgical pathology; its transactions are among the most pre- cious storehouses of knowledge, and the contribu- tions to its pages by English surgeons entitle them to take rank as among the foremost pathologists. JVew methods of exploratiun have done much to advance the progress of surgery. The ophthalmo- scope, first imagined by Gumming, and described by him in the Altdico-CliimryiaiL Transaolions, became in the hands of Helmholtz a perfect and marvellous instrument of exploration, by which we are enabled, with the utmost ease, quick- ness, and precision, to explore the condition of the nervous and vascular tissues and of the transparent humours of the eye. It has revolu- tionised ophthalmic medicine and surgery. Von Graefe, Bonders, Liebreich, and Schweiger abroad; Bowman, Dixon, Critchett, Hulke, J. Z. Laurence, and Carter here, have studied its applications with great success, and have added to our knowledge in this, as have many others in other departments of ophthalmic surgery and in various degrees, Laryngoieopy, practised with success by Garcia, has been popularised by Czermak, and studied in this country by Gibb, Morell Mackenzie, Arthur Durham, Sieveking, Walker of Peterborough, G Johnson, and others, who have achieved striking successes in the removal and treatment by local applications of tumors, &c. of the larynx. The ENDOSCOPE, first used by Avery of Cliaring Cross Hospital, has been revived as an instrument of practical surgery by Desormeaux, who has made valuable improvements ; by Cruise in Ireland, Warwick of Richmond, and Jeevan and Christo- pher Heath of London. Electrolysis—the disso- lution of tumors by the action of electricity—has been attempted with some success by Crussell of St. Petersburg; and bj' Ciniselli of Cremona. Nelaton in France, and Althaus in England, have employed it with good result, and Althaus has modified theinstrumentemployed,and believes it to be capable of numerous and useful applications. M. Middeldorpf in Germany, M. Nelaton in France, and Mr. Marshall in England have employed, in numerous instances, the heated galvanic wire (Gal- vanicausis) for the amputation of tumors, the divi- sion of sinuses, and the destruction of erectile growths. M. Chassaignac in France has urged with great vigour the employment of a linear saw or ligature for division of the tissues in lieu of the knife. Advocated by its author as a method ca- pable of very extensive application indeed, this | method is at present confined in this country to the limited class of operations where highly vas- cular tissues require division—as in ablation or ab- scission of the tongue, of some forms of uterine polyi)i, &c. For these'purposes—and for no other—it seems particularly adapted. The method of crushing, and of removal of growths by caustic SURGERY. wedges, has been much used and greatly abused by Maisonneuve in France. by Maisonneuve in i-rance. Among the groat genrral additions to the re- sources of surgery, and the great steps in its pro- gress, must be included artiJickU ancBstlwsia. In 1799 Humphrey Davy, working in the laboratory of Beddoes, who was investigating the effects of the inhalation of gases, intimated that pure pro- toxide of nitrogen enjoyed, amongst other pro- perties, that of annihilating pain, and added that, in surgical operations accompanied by pain, it might probably be employed with advantage. Its ex- citing and troublesome effects, as then used, soon brought it into disfavour, but in 1842 Dr. W. C. Long, of Athens, U.S., found that ether possessed satisfactory effects in allaying the pain of surgical operations; in the same year Dr. Jackson of Harvard, U.S., and, after him, Morton of Boston, fully made out and proclaimed the invaluable qualities of this substance. Subsequently Simpson of Edinburgh engaged in the study of narcotic vapours fit for inhalation, and, on the suggestion of Waldie of Liverpool, employed chloroform, which had already been in use by Laurence and others, diluted with spirit, as chloric ether, and had been experimented with by Flourcns on animals in the pure form. The superior rapidity of action and portability of chloro- form have, among other qualities, enabled it to be used on the battle-field and in ordinary practice with almost universal consent, and have thus extended the blessings of anaesthesia. According to Holmes and to Tie'lat, it has not only facilitated all the proceedings of the surgeon, but has dimi- nished the mortality of operations, probably by les- sening shock. For taxis of hernia; for reduction of old dislocations; for diagnosis in many forms of surgery, of hysterical diseases and malingering, it is in constant use, no less than for cutting opera- tions. The protoxide of nitrogen has again been restored to favour in America by Colton, for dental and other short operations. Administered without admixture of air or re-breathing of the products of respiration, it produces rapid, complete, and transient anajsthesia. At present it can only be produced by inconvenient processes, and is ex- cessively bulky; but I see no reason why it should not be manufactured and liquefied by proper processes, which would allow of the condensation of a great volume of gas into a comparatively small compass. It seems applicable for most of the purposes of diagnosis, for many of the more rapid operations on the eye, &c. Richardson has done much to perfect local uncBsthesia by the use of dher in spray, and the anjesthetic effects of the cold pro- duced by its rapid volatilisation. Arnott, by the use of ice or snow and salt in combination, liad previously produced similar congelation, more slowlj', and by means not so uniformly at com- mand, or so universally applicable, but still often at hand and highly servicealde. Passing now to certain giioups op dise.\.se.s I must only refer to the labours of Ricord, who d'is- tinguished clearly between (jnnorrhaia as a local disease, and syphilis ns constitutional; and who declared that tlie soft chancre might become hard and ill this stage infect the system. This is tho theory now known as the "unicity"of syphilis. On the other hand, the dualists now hold that the hard chancre is alone infecting, and t[)at the soft is a purely local lesion. In this country opinions are not quite settled on this subject, and tho diver-