ointment compftged of fifteen grammes of biniodide of mercury, ten grammes of oil of almonds, and five grammes of prepared lard, to be laid on the part with a brush. The application is followed by vio- lent pain, beginning in about ten minutes and at- taining its height in half an hour, and soon after by swelling and an erysipelatous blush, which last about three days. The remedy thus employed determines a local irritant as well as general action, by which the ulceration is powerfully modified, and a smooth solid cicatrix without loss of sub- stance or deformity obtained. In one case which lie details, he found it necessary to apply the ointment fifteen times at suitable intervals. I have witnessed an analogous effect produced by using a solution of half a drachm of iodine and half a drachm of iodide of potassium in a drachm of glycerine. The beneficial action thence resulting ^yas sustained by the occasional application of simple tincture of iodine to the part. (See Report of Case in Lancet, vol. ii., 1864, p. 152.) As a general rule, in this form of lupus, caustics ought to be applied often and sparingly Before resorting to topical measures, it is expedient to re- move the crusts by means of emollient poultices. If there be much pain and heat about the sore, cold poultices ought to be employed till these sub- side. It is sometimes advantageous to add a nar- cotic solution to the cataplasm. It deserves notice that a topical agent of acknowledged utility in interrupting the progress of lupus is the red-hot iron; this often exerts a most salutary effect in mo- difying the nature of the sore, producing healthy granulation and prompt cicatrisation. The stability of the cure may be inferred from the character of the cicatrix. When the new skin is soft, free from tenderness, and nearly of the natural colour, it may be considered comparatively sound ; but when it remains pretematurally red, and mdurated, or, on the other hand, presents a delicate membranous aspect, like an arachnoid web traversed by minute tortuous blood-vessels, there is every likelihood of relapse. Under such circumstances It is incumbent on the patient to persevere in the use of the hygienic and therapeutic means above pointed out, otherwise the prospect of a cure is verv doubtful. This disease sometimes yields to the administra tion of internal remedies alone ; sometimes, again It .«pontaneously gets well. Dr. Triistedt, c Berlin, mentions his having cured lupus by meano '^'f the decoctum Zihnamii (a compound slightly purgative preparation of sarsaparilla). {Med. Zeit I■ Heilkunde in Preussen, No. 11.) Another variety of lupus has been described by the writer a;, erosive ulcer of the follicles {Op. Cil. p. -32). This frequently originates like a catarrhal atrection of the Schneiderian membrane. By and by, the inflammation, being,as it were, concentrated in one particular point, leads to erosive ulceration, which almost invariably terminates in perforation ct the cartilaginous septum. The only circum- stances whereby the patient's attention is directed to the mischief going on, are a degree of tenderness ■md fulness in the membrane, felt more especiallv on exposure to cold air, and the constant renro- fluction of crusts on the point of lesion. After a time, from cold or other dctermininir cause some portion of the external surface of the nose become, "flamed, and ulcerates. One or other ala, by con- vof n """'"""'j' att.icked. Small LUPUS. ' ■ red angry-looking tubercles make their appearance, and are speedily converted into a spreading ulcera- tion. The ulcer all along preserves the tubercular character: the apices of the tubercles are more or less concealed by dry, hard, tenacious crusts, which consist of albumen and mucus. As the dis- ease proceeds, fresh tubercles are developed, and encroach more and more upon the integument of the upper lip and cheek. The confines of the sore have a dusky red hue. This ulceration is always attended by loss of substance, and the havoc com- mitted by it when unrestrained is often very great. The parts ordinarily destroyed are the cartilagi- nous septum and ala. According to M. Raj-er, it may begin externally, and spread to the lininir membrane of the nostrils secondarily. The gums are occasionally aflfected. The disease was con- sidered by Sir A. Cooper to consist in ulceration of the sebaceous follicles. Hence, whenever the pre-existing irritation passes along from the in- ternal mucous cryptse to the external ducts, the inflammation ere long set up induces occlusion of the orifices, succeeded by ulcerative absorption of the follicles, previously atrophied through the in- roads of the newly-formed connective tissue. The papilte, endued with a higher degree of sensibility and seemingly a greater capacity for resisting the process of disorganisation, may now and then be recognised forming little vascular eminences, the adjacent textures having been supplanted, so to speak, by the newly-formed connective tissue The present variety of corroding ulcer is seldom met with before pube«y. It begins, like other varieties of lupus, most frequently between the ages of fourteen and thirty ; rarely after the fortieth year, altnough M. Alibert has adduced cases wliere it occurred at a later period in life As with the former, so also with the present form, the subjects chiefly predisposed to it are those of a blond complexion, with light hair and irides, and marked developnient of the sebaceous follicles of the nose. The latter may be said to charactedse and accompany this form of ulcer. The patient is seldom of robust constitution, feels languid, most usually suffers from disorder of the afsimila^°ve functions, and rarely if ever displays the clear and blooming complexion indicative of health B.r^A vigour. As regards the intensity of its progress, creat variation may be noted. I„ one individual its course IS so slow as to seem almost stationary while in another, it runs on with rapid strides ' In combating this form of ulcer, so obstinate and intractable in its nature, it is indispen ab e towards restoring a healthy action that we shonU- not only destroy the morbid habit of the par h,^> at the same time modify the organic relations of subjacent textures This done, the lesion vill spontaneously heal. Now, this twofold obiect can be at once accomplished by cmploving U,. chloride of zinc. ^ . "jj uie An cscharotic paste is conveniently obtained hv- mixing one part of chloride of zinc with two or three parts of the powder of tragacanth, or of slin pcry-elm bark {Vlmusfdva), or the pondered root of mnrsh mallow, triturated with a verv sn,ni quantity of water. This possesses the ndva,Uaai of forming a dry eschar, and leaving a firm cicatW^ nf er the separation of the eschar, which usunllv takes place from the twelfth to the eighteenth dav During the above period no poultice, lotion, or any i.