790 TUMOR. Its proper situation. It will also be necessary for him to pay attention to the instrument being neither too tight nor too loose. 3. The patient ought to be provided with at least two trusses, which fit him well, so that if one stand in need of repair, he may always be provided with one that will answer. In order to save the truss, especially in fat persons-who perspire a great deal, it is a good plan to lay a soft piece of calico under the pad. 4. An uneasiness about the ring, which always gives rise to a suspicion that a portion of intes- tine or omentum is protiuded, makes it proper to take off the truss, carefully examine the parts, and reduce them if they have descended. 5. When the skin is excoriated by the truss, the part may be cured by sprinkling upon it the powder of acetate of lead, Fullers' earth, lapis calaniinaris, &c., or bathing the part with an astringent lotion. It will also be right to protect the excoriated place with a piece of linen put under the truss. 6. When the pressure of the truss excites pain and swelling of the spermatic cord and testicle, either the tliigii-strap must be relaxed, or the lower part of the pad made less prominent. And when strong pressure is absolutely necessary to keep the hernia reduced, the pad should have an excavation in it over tlie spermatic cord. Whoever wears a truss should be careful to employ it day and night without interruption, so that there may be no opportunity for the hernia to protrude again. If, under the employment of a truss, the rupture once descends again, either a strangulation happens from the narrowness of the neck of the sac, or at all events, the hope of a radical cure, which may have been entertained for j'ears and months, is destro3'ed in a moment; for experience has put it beyond all doubt, that by the continual unre- mitted use of a truss, and the steady retention of the contents of the hernia, the neck of the hernial sac, and the ring, may be giaduallj' lessened in diameter until they are entirely closed, and a radical cure of the rupture effected. This is more frequently observed in young subjects, seldom in adults, and scarcely ever in persons of advanced years. But trusses must be worn a long while; nor should the patient venture to lay aside their use till after many cautious attempts; beginning the experiment at first only in the night-time, and not making it in the day till after a considerable period from the time when he first thinks himself safe. The longer and more attentively a truss is worn, the greater is the hope of a radical cure. {Cailisen, Syit. Chir. Hod. t. ii.) Eagland's truss for naval ruptures was preferred by Hey. In the article Hernia,anaccount isgiven of the truss for umbilical hernia, invented by Mr. Marrison, of Leeds. There may also be found additional observations on the place against whici; the pressure of the pads of trusses should be directed. TUMOR. [The definition, as quoted by Richard Wiseman from Galen, is "a disease in which the parts of the body depart from their natural state by an undue increase of their size." And, doubtless, the word is employed by the public generally to convey this idea. For the Word is commonly used to express local increase of ««e in any region of the body, produced by some adventitious formation at any period of life. It is the object of morbid anatomy to investigate the elementary structure of tumors, and by know- ledge thus acquired to form a classification of them based thereupon. Thus M. Broca, in his admirable work, ar- ranges tumors, or, as he terms them, "accidental productions" (p. 140), into four classes: Ist, Ilomoeomorphic productions; 2nd, Heteromorphic; .Srd, Amorphic ; 4th, Encysted parasitic animals. The first class he subdivides into two sub-classes —the first, homologous productions, the second heterologous. In the first sub-cl:iss he arranges : A, accidental productions formed by the hyper- trophic development of organs or their elements; and B, accidental productions of new formation. Under A he arranges—1, single hypertrophy; 2, partial hypertrophy. The first, as it occurs either diffused or circumscribed; the second, as affecting the skin, the mucous membranes, the glands (adenoma). B consists of two groups, according as their autogenous elements are compound or simple. In the compound group he places erectile tumors, arterial and venous; hysteroma, cysts, odontoma. In the group composed of simple elements he includes productions formed of fat, lipoma; bone, osteoma; cartilage, cht ndroma; fibrous tissue, fibroma; epidermic elements, as corns. In the second sub-class he places keloid; warty tumors of cicatrices; anatomical tubercle; certain fungus of the dura mater; fibroid; epithe- lioma ; myeloid; simple melanosis; pseudade- noma. In the second class, which consists of hetero- logous productions only, he divides into A, acci- dental productions forming part of the economy; and B, such as do not. A, includes cancers and tubercle; B, pus. The third class, amorphous productions, includes simple colloid; syphilitic gum (gommes); fibrinous clots of arteries or aneurisms; cretaceous deposits, atheromatous, calcareous, tophaceous, &c. The fourth class includes all encysted parasitic animals; hydatids. The terms " morbid growths," " pseudoplasms," or " neoplasms," have been frequently employed, of late, to denote that division of the class of tumors to which the author of this work refers in this article.] It is unnecessary to travel over the whole of this extensive subject, because numerous forms of dis- ease ranking as tumors, according to the foregoing definition, have been described in other articles of this work. (See Canckii; Exostosis; N^vus; Fungus H^ematodes; Mamma, Diseases op THE; Testicle, Diseases of the, &c. &c.) In this place will be noticed only some parts of the subject, and certain questions, which have not yet been particularly entered into in other articles. In considering all the various tumors and indu- rations which occur in inllammati(m and disease, we have reason to suspect that the processes by which they are formed must be attended with considerable diversity. Yet Dr. Armstrong believes that the general principles of morbid changes of structure may admit of being reduced to a small number. Thus, says he, if we take the acknow- ledged products of inflammation, and to them add tubercle, scirrhus, fungus, and melanosis, we have at once a bird's-eye view of the most important changes which occur jn the solids. (See Moibul Aiiat. of the Bowels, &e. p. 1.) Though there i»