282 MAMMA, DISEASES Oi". seated chiefly in the direction of the axilla, and on the border of the pectoral muscle. They are most common in the left breast, but may occur in both breasts. They consist of a faint yellow tissue, dotted ■with white, from which no liquid exudes, resem- bling in texture that of the mammary gland. At times they are isolated, or else adherent to the mam- mary tissue, and seem as if they were partial over- growtiis of single lobules of the gland. They are freely movable, and never larger than a pigeon's egg. The patients coraphain of acute lancinating pain in the part, which radiates in every direction; comes on by fits, disappears spontaneouslj', and recurs without obvious cause, or from the slightest touch or pressure. These tubercles are generally met with in women who are hysterical or chlorntic and who menstruate irregularly. They are very slowly developed, and usually remain unaltered after the subsidence of the neuralgia, or diminish but little. Tiie treatment consists in the employment of soothing means, and of small Hying blisters, dusting over the blistered surface with about half a grain of finely-powdered hydrochlorate of mor- phia. Frictions with an ointment containing vera- tria, or witii an alcoholic tincture of the root of aconite, occasionally afford relief If the pain is very intense, resort may be had to extirpation, pro- vided there is but a single tubercle, or a very limited number. Subcutaneous incisions are advocated by M. Rufz: he introduces a tenotome between the centre of tiie pain and the root of the nerve and vessels, and cuts the tissue of the mamma. He operates thus on several points at a time.j A good deal of valuable information on the sub- ject of mastodynia is to be found in the writings of Justamond, who appears to have been often suc- cessful in its treatment. (See Tracls, 4to. pp. 3fl0 et seq.) By systematic writers on the diseases of females, it is usually considered with those of gestation, (See Cumin., ib.) Hypertrophy.—\_General HypeHropliy of the mamma consists in an extraordinary increase of the adipose tissue; the hy pertrophy of the glandular sub - stance exercises a very subordinate influence. On making a section, the texture appears either preter- naturally vascular, interpenetrated by dilated blood- shot vessels, or else remarkably bloodless and dry. The former seems to be the case when the affection is rapidly developed in young persons, and where usually the lactiferous ducts and lobules of the gland are enlarged—the latter when the growth makes very slow progress. The affection may arise in both breasts simultaneously; or first in one, and then in the other sympathetically. Its course may be acute or chronic. In the former case the enlarge- ment is very rapid; the patients complain of severe tensive or dragging pain, extending to the adjoin- ing limb at times, and it is the case which Sir Astley Cooper terms the morbid growth of the breast, or large pendulous state of it.] In some instances, indeed, it acquires a uniform increase of size, so as to become at last altogether monstrous Heat, uneasiness, and signs of increased flow of blood in the part may be noticed. The more chronic form is unattended with inflammation or pain, beyond a feeling of pricking in the part; the only inconvenience being from the weight and bulk. The disease most frequently commences soon afte puberty, and in many cases the breast attains auch magnitude that its extirpation becomes absolutely necessar3^ (See liey^s Surgery; Pearson on Cancer; Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by Tyrrell; Cumin, in Edinh. Meil. und Surg. Journ., vid. xxvii. p. 227.) Hypertrophy of the breast is alleged to be always connected with a suppressed or disordered state of the menstrua] function. Mr. Hey mentions the case of a girl who menstruated when only twelve years old, but shortly afterwards the menses dis- appeared, in consequence of damp clothes being worn during the period. The breasts increased in size, and her left breast attained the enormous weight of eleven pounds four ounces. After its removal the menses returned, and the right breast diminished. [It is considered as a hindrance to conception, and should this take place, it generally results in abortion, or premature confinement. As regards treatment, attention ouuht to be directed to the state of the reproductive organs. The prepara- tions of iodine may be exhibited both internally and topically; methodical compression may prove useful; as a last resource, amputation of the exu- berant growth.] Atrophy of the mamma. This usually takes place in advanced life, commencing after tlie catamenia have ceased. [The glandular substance, when mi- nutely examined, shows a scanty amount of lacti- ferous tubes, which may be pervious, or partly ob- literated, and of which the terminal vesicles are moreover considerably diminished both as regards number and size; sometimes individual lactiferous tubes appear calcified. Besides the senile atrophy of the breast, there is a second form which, according to Scauzoni, affects occasionally women at an ear- lier period of life, and is conjoined with maladies of the womb, ovaries, and the like, or ensues upon repeated and long-continued lactation. Partial atrophy of the mammary gland is not infrequent in breasts that are the seat of bulky adveixtitious growths, and wiiich impede the circulatioi. The notion tliat mammary atrophy rnay proceed from the exhibition of preparations of iodine is now ex- ploded.] Scrofula of tlie mamma is described as appearing underldifferent shapes,and as being in its earlier stages "not always easily distinguished from diseases of a much more formidable description. Sometimes a hard lump forms in the mamma, and remains nearly quiescent for several years; at other times, the whole gland is affected with scrofulous en- largement. But, in all cases of this disease, its tendency is to suppuration; and the purulent matter discharged is always more or less mingled with those curdy flakes which form the principal diagnostic of scrofula. Mr. Lloyd relates a re- markable instance, in which the whole of the tumor seemed to have oeen converted into this curdy deposit." In strumous diseases of the mamma, the part is alwavs enlarged, not contracted, as in one form of carcinoma. The tumor is tender when grasped, never possesses the stony hardness obser- ved in the latter disease, nor, so far as Dr. Cumiu s experience goes, is it ever attended with retraction of the nipple. {Op. ct vol. cit.p.i^i.) Tiie treatment of scrofulous tumors of the breast is like that of the generality of other strumous swellings. It is considered in the writings of 1 eai- on {Ol Cancer), Lloyd (On Scrofulu), and Sir A. Cooper {Illustrations ofniscases oj the I'cast) [Tumors of the character of tubercle have been