"<J INFLAMMATION. Meanwliilo tTie nature of the blood and its clot resistance, were further developed by Ilewson. The effect of air on the blood had long been known, and what we now call oxygen had been called " nitrons spirit " by Mayow ; but Priestly (1777) discovered "dc- phlogitiscated air " (oxygen) and its power of acting on the blood through membranes, and, with Lavoisier, founded the modern theory of respira- tion. Neverlhelesi, animal chemistry at the end of tlie eighteenth century was in the rudest state ; substances to be analysed were only exposed to destructive distillation by fire, and the ammonia and pitchy products resulting were classed under the head of spirits, salts, and stinking oil. From Jiees^s Ed. of Chambers's CydopcEcUa, 1786, it is clear that the state of the blood in inflammation and fever was conceived to be thickened bj' heat arising from errors in diet and excited circulation. It was not till 1835-40 that Mulder, Simon, and Liebig directed attention to the evidences of increased oxydation in inflammatory blood. The animal body is an oxydating machine. Oxygen is needed, not only to cause "force" as heat and motion, but whether tissue is to be formed from the blood, in nutrition, or to be taken back into the blood when effete. " All the tissues of the body contain, for the same amount of carbon, more oxygen than the constituents of blood. During their formation oxygen has been added to the elements of proteine." {LieJdg, A?i{mal Chemistry, by W. Gregory, Lond. 1842, p. 127.) The. buffy coat was believed to contain a tritoxyde of protein, equivalent in composition to pyin, a princi- ple found in pus. The illustrious Liebig taught that weakened vital power in any part of the body is equivalent to deficient resistance to the action of oxygen; this is equivalent to increased change of matter, and increased change of matter is followed by increase of all movement. Diseased transformation of living tissues, abnormal genera- tion of force, acceleration of the involuntary motions of the heart, and higher temperature are the phenomena of fever. In consequence of the accelerated circulation, a greater amount of arterial blood, and consequently of ox3-gen, is conveyed to the diseased part. Health is restored when the equilibrium between the action of oxygen and the resistance of the implicated tissue is restored. These being the cardinal principles of disease, the philosopher goes on to describe the rationale of treatment, and his observations on the empirical nature of the ancient traditional treatment de- serve to be written in li'tters of gold. "These methods employed by the physician," he says, " (he result of ages of ciopcrionca, are siicli that the most perfect theory could hardly have pointed them out more acutely and more justly than has been done by the observations of the sagucious practitioner. He diminishes, by blood-letting, the number of the carriers of oxygen (red globules), and by this means the conditions of change of matter ; he ex- cludes from the food all such matters as are capable of conversion into blood ; he gives chiefly and en- tirely noii-azotised food, which supports the respi- ratory process, as well as fruits and vegetables, which contain the alkali necessary for the secre- tions." (Op. cit. p. 258.) The uses of connter- irritjition and of cold are explained by Liebig on chemical principles, but it must be added that he condemns the too lavish abstraction of blood, be- Ciiuse it contains the store of nutrition and vital ag well as of the oxj'gen which is necessary for the destruction of diseased and effete products. Twenty years later we find the chemical nature of inflammation vindicated and unfolded by one of Liebig's most distinguished followers—Dr. ]3ence ■Jones—in his ingenious Lectures on the Application of Chemistry and Mechanics to Pathology and Theraptutics (Lond. 1867). Inflammation, he teaches, is n "state of oxydation beyond that which occurs in health." Neither vascular nor nervous disorder lie so near the root of inflammation as chemical disorder. This last is independent of and anterior to the others. This is shown by tracing the beginnings of inflammation in sucli a texture as the cornea, where neither vessels nor nerves exist, inflammation besius as an exagge- ration of a natural process. Inflammatory heat proceeds from an excess of the process which causes healthy heat. The diseased oxydation and heat production begin in the tissue outside the capil- laries; the increased action soon reaches the capil- laries : the o.xj'gen-bearing red globules are attracted in excess by the demand for oxygen ; hence follow increased circulation and stasis, pain and sensitiveness, and exudation of serum and fibrin. Fever may follow. " AVhen the increase of chemical action is excessive, the whole bleed participates in it," So said Galen. " Peroxyda- tion not only causes an excess of fibrin, but it pro- duces a higher state of oxydation of fibrin than exists in health." The blood globules become more adhesive, so that they roll together and sink more rapidly when blood is drawn, "whilst the altered fibrin contracts more firmly than ordinary fibrin usually does." (Op. cit. p. 85.) It is of great interest to study the way in which chemical theory harmonises with ancient doctrine, according to which inflamniation was regarded not so much as a disease as a means of removing disease. We may take Dr. Bence Jones's description of a fit of the gout for an example. An attack of gout, he says, is a process of oxydation set up in parts where the urates (the presence of which in the blood is, per hypothesin, the gouty diathesis) accumulate. By oxydation the urates are con- verted into urea, which can be more readily ab- sorbed from the tissues and eliminated by the kidneys. It will be remembered that Hunter spoke of the gout as a process in which some- thing was to be done in the part, and that Garrod had aflirmed that the gouty paroxysm de- stroys the urate of soda. The eft'ect of a feverish or inflammatory attack in clearing the blood of elements which may have caused ill health fur years is explicable on this hypothesis. We have already mentioned B. W. Richardson's chemical theories of the coagulation of the blood and of the buify coat, (On the Coagulation of the Blood, Lond.'1853.) In a note with which he favoured me in 18(11 his theory of the fever ac- companying inflammation was that it was due to a process of superoxygenation extending throughout the system at large, and that local inflammation is secondary, as are also the increased temperature of tlie body and the quickened respiration and circu- lation. The conditions which give rise to the process of superoxygenation are such as lead to arrest of the circulation in one or other of the vascular organs, and to a suspension in the process of excretion in such organs. Whenever the circu-