Venereal mid the fm-ther propagation of the disease by the nurse to her husband, and, perhaps, to a large family of children,—I say, in investigating any one of these points, we must be struck wiili the fact that we find in each a striking deviation from those hiws which regulate the venereal disease, ns ccnnmunicated by the adult to the adult. Indeed, this is so much the case that some authors have not hesitated to deny that these atfections are ve- nereal; while others, admitting the possibility of a venereal disease in infants, have yet made use of those very deviations frnm tiie regular laws of syphilis to prove that, in particular instances, the disease was not venereal, because it did not strictly square with the progress of syphilis in adults"." (See Colles, op. cit. p. 262.) Dr. Colles believed, with the late Mr. Hey, the present editor, and others, " that a newly-married man, who is himself free from every appearance of syphilis and every other disease, shall yet infect his wife in such a manner that secondary symptoms shall appear in her a few months after marriage, and these not preceded by anyprimarysymptimis.or by any discharge whatever from the genitals." Per- haps there may not be anything extraordinary, nor any remarkable deviation of the disease from its usual course, in the fact of its being transmitted from the mother to the foBtus through the medium of the placental intercourse between them, in the form of secondary symptoms, because the maternal and foetal systems ma}' be regarded in some points of vieiv as identified and blended together ; yet some authors imagine that the child can only be- come infected by coming in contact, during par- turition, with ulcers in the vagina of tlie mother. This doctrine, as Dr. Colles justly observes, is at once overthrown by the following facts ;—1st. It has been ascertained that no sucH ulcers existed at the period of parturition. 2ndly. Many infants have the symptoms of the disease at the moment of birth. The latter consideration is, of course, the most important of the two ; the existence of sores or discharges in women being a point sometimes left in doubt, notwithstanding an ordinary examina- tion. Whether the infant is ever primarily in- fected—that is, whether, at the time of birth it contracts tlie disease—in consequence of the direct application of the virus of a chancre, which the m ither may happen to have, is another con- sideration ; but certainly this cannot be the com- mon mode of infection. In some instances, the child comes to its full time, or nearly so; but is born in so weak a condition that it dies in a few hours, exhibiting a copper-coloured eruption about the anus and genitals, or even over the whole bod}-. Another way in which the disease makes its appearance is the following :—The child is born, to all appearance, healthy and well-nou- rished, and continues to thrive for about a week or a fortin'ght. Then copper-coloured spots appear about the anus and genitiils, or on the inside of the thighs, or about the groins, where they may degene- rate into ulcers. The voice of the child is imw ob- served to change, and the cry to be hoarse. Super- ficial ulcers next appear on the angles of the mouth, with cracks and fissures about the neigh- bouring skin, which sometimes bleed. The tongue, palate, and throat are also affected with white superficial aphthous ulcerations; the nose be- comes obstructed ; a sharp thin discharge flows from the nostrils, but sometimes dries into a scab, DISEASE. .0.-)5 which blocks np the nose, and impedes the free- dom of respiration : hence there is a snuffluig noise in the child's breathing. If the disease ad- vance further, ulcers and fissures form in dilFerent folds of the skin ; great emaciation ensues ; the flesh is flabby; the edges of the eyelids red; the conjunctiva nnico-puiuleut ; ;ind, unless proper treatment be adopted without delay, the little suf- ferer goon perishes. It is occasioiuilly suspected that an infant may contr.act the disease by sucking a nurse affected with secondary symptoms; but this is a disputed point, and Ur. Colles expresses a doubt whether the diseased nurse could infect the child, unless she had ulceration of the nipple. If the ulcer of this part were a secondary one, then one might infer, from the Hunterian doctrines, and the inocu- lations instittited by M. Ricord with the matter of such a sore, that it would not be capable of im- parting the disease. [If the blood of the mother can affect the foetus in utero, the milk secreted from that blood may and does, in the opinion of the editor, produce the same effect.] The best method of treating syphilis in infants is to prescribe calomel in very small doses, or else the hydrargyrus cum creta in the quantity of one or two grains twice daily. The disetise may be also cured by putting the mother under the influ- ence of mercury. Whether the infant can transmit the disease to others, as is so often asserted, is another interesting topic; because, if this be decided in the affirma- tive, it is contrary to the doctrine of Hunter, M. Ricord, and others, who maintain that no secondary symptoms can be the means of transmitting the disease to another individual. [This opinion has been proved to be erroneous by Wallace and other pathologists.] With respect to the implication of the testicle in syphilis, I need add nothing to what is stated on the subject in the article Tksticlb, Di.seases of. For other matter relating to the venereal disease, see Nitric Acid, Guaiacum, MEZKnEox, Go- NORRHCEA, IrITIS, &C. Some years !igo the nitric acid was introduced as a remedy for syphilis. To the position of'its efficacy being as great in venereal cases as wag first alleged, many surgeons have not acceded, though, as a sensible writer has observed, it has certainly been allowed, with some other medicines, to remain in a kind of copartnership with mercury, and admitted to be useful in venereal cHses under certain circumstances. A great deal of this want of agreement with respect to the effects of remedies in syphilitic cases is now explained by the imperfection of the diagnosis, and the impor- tant fact that the disease may generally be cured in time without any medicines whatsoever, though this time is sometimes long. Dr. Scott, who first suggested the use of nitric acid, lias attempted to account for its alleged occasional failures by observ- ing that the acid which he employed was not pure nitric ncid, but an impure acid containing an ad- mixture of muriatic acid. He, therefore, some time ago recommended the use of a compound acid containing three parts of nitric acid and ■one of muriatic, which he administered internally, and also applied externally, larg( ly diluted as a bath, until the gums were affected and ptyalism produced ; and he conceived every trial as quite incnnclusivo unless these coubtilutioiial elfects occurred.