407 V POLYPUS OP THE UTERUS, organ. When it begins to bulge prominently in the cavity of the uterus, active contraction of this organ will tend to cast it off. For this purpose, the uterine muscular tissue has become developed under the stimulus of what may be regarded as a parasitic growth. The carrying a polypus is a species of gestation; and there is always a preparation for expelling the polypus, which occasionally ends successfully—^labour completing the analogy. Dr. Montgomery relates a case in which the gradual conversion of a fibrous tumor into a polypus, and its expulsion into the vagina, was clearly traced. The likeness to ordinary gestation is seen in the growth the uterus undergoes. Mr. Paget {Surgical Patliology) thus contrasts the growth of a fibroid tumor and that of the uterus : " A tumor may respmble in its tissues the uterus itself, having well-formed muscular and fibrous tissue, and so far as the structures formed in excess are concerned, we might regard the tumor as the result of an hypertrophy not essentially different from that which, at the same time .and rate, may take place in the uterine walls around it. But an essential difference is in this : the uterus, in its growth around the tumor, maintains a normal type, though excited to its growth, if we may so speak, by an abnormal stimulus; it exactl}' imitates in vascularity and muscular development the preg- nant uterus,and may even acc[uire the like power; and at length, by contractions like those of par- turition, may expel the tumor spontaneously separated. But the tumor imitates in its growth no natural shape or construction ; the longer it grows the greater is its deformity." To this it may be added that, after the expulsion of the tumor, the uterus undergoes the same processes of contraction and involution by degradation and ab- sorption of the now superfluous muscular fibre-cells as after ordinary labour. The stimulus to deve- lopmental activity being withdrawn, superabun- dant blood is no longer attracted to the organ, the blood-vessels shrink, and the tendency to floodings is checked. The similarity between polypoid and ordinary gestation is sometimes so close as to cause mistakes that might lead to serious imputation against moral character. Following upon many of the more obvious signs of pregnancy, a substance re- sembling an altered aborted ovum is expelled with haemorrhage. It is only by section and microscopical examination that such a " fleshy mole" can be distinguished from an ovum. If the proper elements of the ovum, especially the chorion-villi or placental-tufts, are made out, we may form a positive opinion, for nothing in nature exactly resembles these structures. On the other hand, an ovum has been mistaken for a polypus. Several cases of complete extrusion of fibrous polj-pi, effecting a spontaneous cure, are related. Cruveilhier gives the following : " A young woman was seized nineteen days after a laborious delivery with pains exactly simulating those of parturition. After three days of sympntlietic phenomena, so severe that her life was despaired of, she passed three flattened bodies of firm con- sistence, which were altered fibrous tumors. The patient perfectly recovered." Another case, also by Cruveilhier, was independent of pregnancy : "A young woman had suffered during four months from uterine hemorrhage, followed by a horribly fcetid discharge. At the end of this time she expelled some small masses recognised as fibrous tumors. This patient, whose health was undermined by hectic, and who presented all the marks of can- cerous cachexia, recovered, contrary to all expecta- tions I The writer exhibited {Obslelr. Trans, 1865) a large polypus which had been expelled several weeks after labour, and {iLid, 1862) a small one which was expelled under symptoms taken to be those of an abortion. Sometimes, when pregnancy is complicated with a polypus, haemorrhage recurs, uterine contraction is set up, and abortion follows. Sometimes the pregnancy goes on to terra ; severe hsemorrhage attends, owing to the hindrance caused to the equable contraction of the womb, and tlie tumor descends into the vagina, maintaining its connection. An interesting case of this kind is re- lated by Mr. E. Crisp (Dr. Oldham, Gufs Rep. 1844). The placenta being retained Mr. Crisp re- moved it by hand. In withdrawing his hand he felt another child enclosed in its membranes, and en- deavoured to pull away from the side of the uterus what appeared to be the placenta, but failing in this, he perforated it; was again foiled. Dr. Chowne and Mr. Bristowe being called, discovered that there was a large polypoid growth within the womb, causing violent expulsive efforts, and greatly ex- hausting the patient. The energetic action of the womb forced the polypus so low down in the vagina as to interfere with the passage of the ciUheter. The patient died collapsed, worn out with the constant uterine action, though unattended with haemorrhage." Generally, however, polypi prevent pregnancy, and a curious case occurred to the writer, of a uterus removed in the dissecting- room, in which a polypus the size of a filbert grew at the orifice of each Fallopian tube, both being completely closed. In another case the tumor had been driven outside the vulva, quite closing the entrance to the vagina. And in the common case of the polypus filling the vagina, sterility almost necessarily follows. In the process of extrusion a pedicle is formed which is sometimes capable of elongation, permit- ting the tumor to descend lower and lower. The thin layer of proper uterine tissue which forms the shell stretches out, and through the stalk the vas- cular connection with the uterus is maintained, and at the same time the connection is further aided by the investing mucous membrane. At other times the connection is more intimate; the fibroid struc- ture of the tumor is extended into the substance of the uterus, forming a dense, short, thick, un- yielding stalk. Under uterine action, since the tumor will not separate, and the stalk will not lengthen, the uterus itself is dragged down, pro- ducing partial or complete procidentia of tumor and vagina and uterus. Such a case simulating inversion of the uterus is figured in Ubsleli: Tnins., vol. iii., by the writer. It was only after consider- able trouble that the os uteri was found, \vhen a sound being passed up into the uterus, this organ was distinguished from the tumor. The symptoms differ in the cases of polypus still retained within the cavity of the womb, and of polypus which has escaped through the os uteri into the vagina, In the latter case we have the advantage of digitiil examination to aid the sub- jective symptoms. When the tumor is locked up in the uterine cavity we may have to depend upon the subjective symptoms alone. The general symptoms are these: I. Hreraorrhage, intermitting