INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. of the ditterent species of living solids, and of the many kinds of fluids, at first remain more or less time in the iiliment.iry canal, and there undergo peculiar changes. All the principles, which, under difterent circumstances, may contribute to the production of morbid concretions, either in the eall- bladder, the urinary bladder, the kidneys, or in any other part of the body, where they ever occur, pass at first into the intestinal canal, where they continue for some time. Such a multiplicity of principles, disposed to crystallise, and be converted into calculi, would almost daily produce these concretions in the bowels, were there not many circumstances which counteract this tendency, as, for instance, exercise, the incessant motion of the matter itself along the intestinal tube, the variety of these elements, whereby their natural tendency to unite is disturbed, and the decomposing and recomposing influence of the gastric secretions, whereby parts are united, disposed of, dissolved, and analogous matter kept divided, &c. But, whenever these circumstances are not actively operating, as may be the case in a noose, or fold of the bowels, or in some preternatural cyst be- longing to them ; whenever the intestinal fluids undergo such an alteration, that the production of these concretions cannot be prevented ; or lastly, whenever some favourable circumstance, such as an extraneous nucleus, forms a centre of reunion for particular elements; then the saline matter, which is most disposed to crystallise, and the earthy and mucilaginous substances, &c. are at- tracted together, and produce more or less perfect crystallisations. Some specimens, contained in the Edinburgh Museum, were carefully examined by Dr. T. Thomson ; they at first swam in water, but after- wards sunk; the specific gravity varying from 1"376 to 1-540. Cold water acquired from them a brownish tinge, and took up albumen, which separated in white flakes by boiling. There was also a peculiar brown substance, at first dissolving in water, but rendered nearly insoluble by slow evaporation : soluble in alcohol ; ana most nearly resembling vegetable extract. The specimens like- wise contained chloride of sodium, crystallising on spontaneous evaporation of the water ; phosphate of lime, precipitated by ammonia ; sulphate of soda in minute proportion ; and, perhaps, sulphate of lime. Alcohol dissolved the peculiar brown matter and some of the salts; caustic potash, the albumen, brown matter, and perhaps some of the salts ; and hydrochloric acid, a proportion of phosphate of lime. After all, there remained a peculiar substance, having the colour and texture of the calculus ; in very short threads, light, resembling cork, or rather agaric ; tasteless, insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, potash-ley, and hydrochloric acid; being blackened, and partly reduced to charcoal by sulphuric acid ; slowly dissolving by heat without effervescence, in nitric acid ; and leaving on evaporation a whitish residue, of bitter taste, and imperfectly soluble in water ; burning with a bright flame ; but diftbring iron, all other animal and vegetable substances iiitherto examined, and distinguishable from wood, Uy Its insolubility in potash-ley. The calculi con- sisted of alternate layers, or intimate mixtures of this substance and phosphate of lime, to which the a bumen and brown matter served as a cement, the other substances being in small proportions. Phos- pnate of hme, mixed with a brown animal matter, 83 formed the external crust of some of the specimens. On the surfiice of a few were noticed crystals of pliospfiate of ammonia and magnesia. The pre- sence of neither potash, ammonia, carbonate of lime, unc acid, nor urea, could be detected. Varieties have also been found by Dr. Henry and Mr. Brande, exclusively composed of magnesia, of which the patient had been in the habit of taking vast quantities. (See Thomson's Ohs., in Monro's Morbid Anatomy of the Human Gullet, ^c. p. 36, or in Medico-Chir. Joiirn. vol. iv. pp. 188, 18.9.) From observations made by Dr. Wollaston, it appears probable that the above fibrous, light, thready substance is derived from oats, which are so commonly taken as food in Scotland. " If the oat-seed be divested of its husk, minute needles or beards, forming a small brush, are seen planted at one of its ends. Dr. Wollaston, on examining these needles and comparing them with similar ones detached from the calculi, and forming the velvet substance in question, satisfied himself beyond all doubt of their perfect identity." (Marcet on. Calculous Disorders, p. 130. 8vo. London, 1817.) Those composed of carbonate of iron, chalk, &c. have already been noticed. In cows, concretions are often found in the alimentary canal, consisting of their hairs, which they have licked oft" and swal- lowed. Millers' horses are likewise subject to alyine concretions, formed of collections of the grit of the stone dust in the mills, taken into their stomachs when they are fed with bran. The specimen, analysed by Dr. Ure, he inferred to be a modification of ambergris. (Did. of Che- mistry, art. Intestinal Concretions.) As for the mixed, or hepatico-gastric calculi, they have for their nucleus a biliary concretion, round which other substances contained in the bowels adhere: hence itis evident, that as they are formed at two- distinct periods in two diff'erent situations, and amongst various fluids, two distinct compositions must be the result. Although, says Rubini, there has hitherto been no scientific anal- ysis of this species of calculus, excepting the verv imperfect one by Moreali, reason shows clearly enough, that, if two separate analyses were made one of the nucleus, the other of the surrounding niatter, there would be obtained from the nucleus the same elements as those of an hepatic calculus, and from the rest those of an intestinal concretion (See Pcnsieri sulla varia Origins, (Sf-c., de' Corpi calcolosi die vengorio espulsi dal Tuba gastrico, p. 15 The foregoing principles will enable us to deter- mine with greater precision than formeih- the characters which appertain to the several classes of calculi liable to be voided from the intestinal canal • characters, by moans of which there can be no dif- ficulty in deciding, from the appearance of one of these concretions, the place of its origin, and its pecidiar nature. The hepatic calculus be'ing com- posed of bile, and also of adipocim, or clioles^orine its characters will be such as indicate the predo- minance of an uniform, oleaginous, and (what Uubini terms) a well animalised principle. The gastric or intestinal c ilculiis, arising from the union of various salts, earths, and other principles, which happen to bo in the aliiiientary canal, will have very different characters, generally indicating its earth}', saline compiisitioii. Lastly: the hepatico- gastric calculus will present an union of the different characters, viz. in the centre, the characters of the