Sometimes, after the passage of l<arg;e calculi, the patient is aftlicted with an incontinence of urine ; but in general this grievance only lasts a short time. When surgeons began to consider the magni- tude of calculi sometimes spontaneously voided, . and the large size and dilatable nature of the female urethra, they suspected that it might be a good practice to dilate this passage by mechanical contrivances, until it would allow the stone to be extracted, and thus supersede all occasion for cutting instruments. With this view, Tolet first proposed suddenly dilating the passage with two steel instruments, called a male and female con- ductor, between which the fingers or forceps were passed for the removal of the calculus. {De la Lithotomie^ Paris, 16 1.) But as it was after- wards judged that the dilatation would produce less suifering and injury if more gradually ef- fected, Douglas suggested the practice of dilating the meatus urinarius with sponge or dried gentian root. Mr. Bromfield published the case of a young girl, in whom he etfected the necessary dilatation by introducing into the meatus urinarius the ap- pendicuia cicci of a small animal in a collapsed state, and then filling it with water by means of a s3-ringe ; thus furnishing a hint for the con- struction of instruments on the principle of Dr. Arnott's dilator. The piece of gut thus distended was drawn out, in proportion as the cervix vesicas opened, and in a few hours the dilatation was so fer accomplished that the calculus had room to pass out. (See Chii: Ohs. and Cases, vol. ii. p. 276.) Mr. Thomas met with a case, in which, after dilating the meatus urinarius with a sponge tent, he succeeded in extracting an earpicker, which lay across the neck of the bladder. The passage was so much enlarged that the left forefinger ■was most easily introduced, and (says this gentle- man) " I believe, had the case i-equired it, both thumb and finger would have passed into the bladder without the smallest difficulty." After adverting to this and other facts, proving the ease with which the female urethra can be dilated, Mr. Thomas remarks: " If these relations can be credited, and there is no reason why they shoxild not, I can hardly conceive any case in a young and healthy female subject, and where the bladder is free from disease, where a very large stone may not bo extracted without the use of a.x\y other instrument than tlie forceps, the urethra having first been sufficiently dilated by means of the sponge-tents. For this purpose the blades of the forceps need not be so thick and strong as those commonly employed." (See Med. CIdr. Trans. vol. i. pp. 123-129.) Many facts of a similar kind are on record, and one, in which a large needle-case was extracted, is referred to in a modem periodical work. (Sec Qmirteiiy Journ. of Foreirjn Med., vol. ii. p. .331.) Some surgeons have extracted stones from the female bladder in the following manner :—Tnc patient having been placed in the position com- monly adopted in the lateral operation, a straight staflT, with a blunt end, is introduced into the bladder through the meatus urinarius. The sur- geon then passes along the groove of the instru- ment the beak of a blunt gorget, which instru- ment becoming wider towards the handle, effects LITHOTOMY, 247 a part of tho necessary dilatation. The staff being withdrawn, and the handle of the gorget taken hold of with the left hand, the right fore- finger, with the nail turned downwards, ia now introduced slowly along the concavity of the instrument. When the urethra and neck of the bladder have thus been sufficiently dilated, the finger is withdrawn, and a small pair of forceps passed into the bladder. The gorget is now removed, and the stone taken hold of ,and ex- tracted. (^Sahatier, Med. Opir. t, ii. p. 103.) This plan, however, has been objected to on account of the dilatation being too suddenly efi^ected, and the practice of gradually expanding the meatus urinarius with the sponge tent preferred. The retention of urine during the continuance of the sponge certainly causes great irritation ; and, if this method be followed, therefore, I consider Mr. C. Hutchinson's suggestion of placing a catheter in its centre, as mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, worthy of attention. (See Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. viii, p. 433.) Sir A. Cooper, who is an advocate for the practice of removing calculi from the female blad- der by dilating the meatus urinarius, now em- ploys for this purpose " an instrument constructed upon the principle of the speculum ani and spe- culum oris," and which has the advantage of permitting the urine to escape, whilst it dilates the passage sufficiently for the entrance of the forceps, and the removal of a stone of consider- able dimensions. He believes that, "if the stone be small, the dilatation should be accomplished in a few minutes ; but that if it be large, it will be better to dilate only a little from day to day, until the greatest degree of extension is accomplished ; carefully avoiding contusion, which is much to be dreaded. (See Med. CIdr. Trans, vol. xii. p. 240.) Three or four years ago, I assisted Mr. Walne, of Guildford Street, in extracting a calculus, which was an inch and a half in one of its diameters, from the bladder of a girl eight or ten years old. The meatus was first gradually dilated with Weiss's dilator: the incontinence of urine fol- lowing the operation after a time subsided. I have also seen a piece of spermaceti candle, five inches long, and of the usual thickness, which had accidentally slipped into the bladder, taken out with the finger, after the meatus had been dilated for two or three hours with the same instrument) and in this case no incontinence of urine followed. Notwithstanding these favourable accoun'ts of the practice of dilating the female urethra, for the purpose of removing calculi from the bladder, there are very good surgeons who deem an incision the best practice. It is certain that some patients have found the method insufferably tedious and painful. But the strongest objection is the incon- tinence of urine, which occasionally follows a great distension of the urethra and neck of the bladder. Klein, one of the most experienced operators in Germany, states that he has tried both plans, and that the use of the knife is much loss frequently followed by incontinence of urine. And Scarpa declares that when the calculus is largo, and not soft and fragile, the method of extracting it by dilatation is almost always followed by incontinence of urine. {Sul Ta^ilio llclto-Vcsicalc, Qn the other hand, Mr. Thomas believes that this un- pleasant symptom is quite as often a consequence of the operation of lithotomy as now usually per..