LITHOTOMY. 235 Again, one of the liajmorrlioidal arteries, espe- cially the inferior, may arise from the pudic close to^tho edge of the transverse muscle, and thence cross the perineum obliquely downwards and in- wards. In such a case its division must be in- evitable. The artery of the bulb is subject to numerous vai'ieties both of origin and of course; it sometimes arises much lower down than usual, and crosses the perineum obliquely upwards in the way of the lateral incision. In some cases it arises from the obturator artery, while it sometimes happens that the artery of the bulb at one side is very large, and furnishes the corresponding branch to the opposite side. The dorsal artery of the penis is much more liable to varieties than is commonly supposed. This artery very often arises from the obturator or some other branch of the hypogastric ; but such deviation does not allect lithotomy. In many^ other cases, however, the dorsal artery, in- stead of coming out beneath the symphysis pubis, gains the side of the prostate, romid which it winds to the dorsum of the penis. The late Mr. Shaw lost a patient from haemorrhage occasioned by a variety of this kind ; and Professor Harri- son justly remarks that the anomaly may account for many other cases of fatal bleeding during the early stages of the operation. As the surgeon has no means of ascertaining beforehand the existence of arterial anomalies, he docs not penuit their possible occurrence to influence his proceedings. Should any serious haemorrhage from the division of an artery take place, the vessel must be sought for and taken up in the usual manner ; and, in case of failure, the other means ordinarily employed for the arrest of bleeding must be had recourse to. Cheselden was in the habit of taking up the vessels as they were divided ; and whenever any considerable arterial bleeding occurs his example should be followed. But it is by no means an easy matter to tie either the artery of the bulb or the trunk of the internal pudic artery. The one is hidden so deeply under the arch of the pubes, and the other so closely bound down by aponeurosis to the ischium, that it is almost im- possible to discover their divided orifices or reach them with the needle. A few cases, it is true, are recorded where the surgeon was fortunate enough to take up the trunk of the pudic artery ; but these are exceptional ; and I believe that pressure with the finger against the ascending ramus of the ischium 18 the only safe practice to which wo can have re- course. It may bo tedious for the assistant and a source of annoyance to the patient, yet twelve hours may suffice to place the life of a man be- yond danger, and no sacrifice is too great for such an object. It is unnecessary to mention that this pressure will also serve to arrest hicmorrhnge from the artery of the bulb.] If the internal pudic artery should bo wounded, and bleed profusely, the best plan is, if possible, first to take out the stone and then introduce into the wound a piece of firm sponge with a large canula passed through its centre. The expand- ing property of the sponge on its becoming wet will make the necessary degree of compression ot the vessel, which mostly lies too deeply to be tied. Sometimes lint wrapped round the caiiula —Kiiv, »-i*iiuia nas answered. Linen wet with cold water should at the same time be applied to the perineum and hypogastric region. I cannot say that it has fallen to my lot to see any cases (out of the great number wliich I have seen) in whicli death could be imputed to liajmor- rhage, notwithstanding the bleeding has often been so profuse and from so deep a source, just after the operation, as to create suspicion that it proceeded from the internal pudic artery. Such hemorrhage generally stopped before the patient had been put to bed. Sir Benjamin Brodie had the misfortune to lose a patient from hasmorrhage. The case was that of an old man who had an enlarged prostate and an unusually deep perineum. The blood was venous. If the incisions are made low down, and not too extensive, the chance of haemorrhage seems to Sir B. Brodie to be but trivial, {On Dis. of ilie Urin. Organs, p. 298.) In one example, under this gen- tleman, where the size of the calculus made it ne- cessary to cut the right side of the prostate, the hajmorrhage would have proved fatal if an as- sistant had not pressed the internal pudic artery against the bone with his finger for several hours. In another case operated upon by Sir E. Home the bleeding was first suspended by pressure with the finger ; and then, as the patient was a thin person. Sir B. Brodie succeeded with the aid of a small flexible silver needle in passing a ligiituro round the trunk of that artery. Dr. Physick, of the United States, once succeeded in tying the internal pudic artery after lithotomy. (See Rccsa in Amcrimu Ed. of this Did.) Mr. Key believes that the pudic artery itself is rarely wounded, but that in adults the artery of the bulb and the superficial perineal branch often bleed profusely. If the incision be made low down in the perineum he admits that the artery of the bulb may escape ; but from experi- ments which he has made ou the dead subject he infers that it is almost always divided. He does not approve of plugging the wound with lint or sponge introduced on a catheter. The cellular membrane is irritated by it, and an unhealthy form of inflammation ensues, while the catheter being soon blocked with coagulum does not carry off the urine from the bladder. I have, however (he adds), found advantage in checking the bleed- ing by means of pressure made upon the upper part of the left side of the perineum by a forked piece of lint fixed to a piece of cork ; pressure in this mode also reaches the deeper branches of the prostate from which the blood sometimes oozes for a long time after the patient is placed in bed, and distends the bladder with masses of coagula. (See Guys liospiial Reports, vol.'ii. p. 19.) [Primary venous haemorrhage is anotheraccideiit which occasionally occurs, although its possibility is denied by several authors. It is sometimes sup- posed to arise from division of a portion of the bulb, an accident not easily avoided when we have to ope- rate on old patients. The bleeding from this source, however, is easily commanded and seldom profuse. A more serious form occurs from division of the venous plexus about the neck of the bladder and prostate. In aged patients,and after long-continued irritation of the urinary organs, these veins are apt to become abnormally developed even to n varicose state. Besides this, they are enveloped in prolongations of the deep pelvic fascia, and thus prevented from retracting or becoming