PALATF, FISSURE OF, 429 no use, inasmucli as they were made by goldsmiths who worked without a model of the mouth to guide them, and of course it is most necessary that the plate, to be of any real use, should fit the mouth with the utmost exactness. Thus, then, the real history of the mechanical treatment of cleft palate dates from a recent period. The first Englishman who distinguished himself as a maker of obturators was Mr. Snell, a surgeon of London, who pub- lished, in the year 1828, an interesting book on the subject. This gentleman appears to have been singularly successful in his attempts to remedy this defect. He was the first to obtain a correct model of the mouth upon which to work up the plate, for he pointedly speaks of commencing his treatment by obtaining a correct model of the de- fective parts. Upon the plate so worked up, he fitted, when the vomer was deficient, a piece of ivory to the superior or convex surface, which was filed up to a shape which represented this bone ; when the soft palate was fissured, he attached to the posterior margin of the gold plate a curtain of india-rubber, which was made at once both stiff and flexible by a gold spring attached to it. The construction of such an apparatus could only be accomplished by the man who first designed it, and hence we fiud that, a few years later, the then best known author on dental surgery, Fox, says :—" Fis- sure of the hard palate is generally easily remedied, but where there is a loss of the velum pendulum palati the successful use of any substitute, how- ever ingeniously contrived, is very doubtful." During the year 1845, four articles appeared in the Lancet, by Mr. C. H. Steam, a surgeon of London, on " congenital deficiency of the palate," in which he described a most ingenious apparatus which he had contrived to remedy a con- genital fissure of the soft palate in the person of a near relative of his own. He first fitted a gold plate to the roof of the mouth ; to the upper and poste- rior margin of this plate, a flat, spiral spring was attached, which could vibrate backwards and for- wards; to the free extremity of this spring, an artificial, flexible velum was attached. This velum, made of india-rubber, consisted of a body and two wings. The body, which consisted of three pieces overlapping each other, was made the shape and size of the fissure when the parts were at rest; and the wings, each composed of a single piece, pro- jecting forwards and outwards from each lateral margin of the body, were made to conform to the shape of the columns or fleshy sides of the fissure, and to rest upon their anterior surfaces. In like manner, from each lateral margin of the body, there projected obliquely backwards and outwards a flange, which rested on the posterior surface of the sides of the fissure. In this way the wing and the flange of the same side together formed a groove fitted to receive the movable sides of the fissure, and therefore, when the muscles acted and the fleshy columns of both sides tended to approximate, as in the act of deglutition, the three parts of the body being pressed upon laterally, glided one over the other, and thus the extent of the surface of the body was dimi- nished. This apparatus succeeded in perfectly restor- ing to the gentleman for whom it was made, the power of distinct articulation, and thus the fact was at once established that congenita! deficiency ofbotli the hard and soft palate could be elYectually relieved by mechanical means. It now only remained to simplify the apparatus, in order to render the me- chanical treatment of this defect successful, even in the hands of men less ingenious than Mr. Steam, The writer, without any knowledge of what had been previously done in this field of labour, was called upon, about twelve years ago, to treat a very extensive congenital fissure of hard and soft palate. His first step was to obtain an accurate model of both hard and soft palate; over the former he fitted, with the most exact precision, a gold plate, which was carried back to the posterior margin of the pa- latine processes of the palate bones, and to which was attached a flap of thin vulcanised india-rubber. This was found, as soon as moistened with the sa- liva, to adhere to the pillars of the fissured soft palate and to follow them in all their movements, and thus, by this simple arrangement, an artificial velum was obtained, which possessed all the move- ments of the natural velum. As this flap vi'ould be liable to undergo decompo- sition, it only remained to make the attachment of it to the gold plate so simple that it might be readily removed and replaced by the wearer, to render it practically indestructible. This was effected by means of two gold arms working on hinges and bolted together by a single pin; when the pin was withdrawn, the' arms opened, and the flap fell out. From a sheet of ordinary vulcanised india-rubber, another flap can be readily cut, an exact pattern of the original one (which must be designed by the maker of the apparatus, for no two cases are exactly alike), and attached to the gold plate. But togetrid of the peculiar nasal character of the voice in this defect, it was found necessary, not merely to bridge the fissure, but to fill it up, and this appears to throw some light on the cause of the imperfection in arti- culation before alluded to, in those cases in which the surgeon had succeeded in completely closing the fissure. This was effected by attaching to the upper or convex surface of the gold plate, a crest, originally of gold, now of vulcanite (which is india- rubber vulcanised to hardness, and in this state not prone to decay), which was carried into the fissure, care hemg taken that it did not actually touch its margins, to form the floor of the nares. The appa- ratus thus made, combining, as the writer claims for it, simplicity, durability, and a wide adaptabi- lity, has succeeded beyond his expectations, in re- lieving numerous cases of congenital deficiency of the hard and soft palate. In illustration of the amount of success which Baa attended this mode of treatment, the following cases are appended:— Case I.—A lad between 16 and 17 years of age, with a fissure extending from the uvula to half-way through the hard palate, was fitted with an artifi- cial velum and hard palate; his power of distinct enunciation became so perfect, that after finishing his University career, he resided as tutor with a family of distinction, and has subsequently taken Holy Orders. There is not the smallest trace of the characteristic nasal sound in this case. Case II.—A young lady, with a fissure very si- milar, in extent, to the preceding case, gained, by the use of an artificial palate, so distinct an enunciation, that she souglit the writer's opinion as to whether she ought to reveal lier natural defect to a gentle- man who had made proposals of mariinge to her in ignorance of its existence. Case III.—A gentleman, with a fissure extend- ing from the uvula to the lip, was fitted by the writer