URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. 827 doses of the nitrate with the citrate of potash, and if there is pain or straining, full doses of tincture of hj'oscyamus, as from half a drachm to a drachm, pretty frequently repeated. But if retention is present, catheterism must be resorted to, and a well-warmed silver catheter, of moderate size, such as 7 or 8, may be slowly and gently passed, avoiding as much as possible the production ol any unnecessiuy irritation in the manner of apply- ing it. But in most cases a well-curved gum catheter is better borne, and especially if the urethra is irritable or in any degree inflamed. As adjuncts to other treatment, and to render unnecessary, if possible, frequent recurrence to the use of the catheter, hot fomentations to the perineum, or hot hip-baths, and linseed poultices to the hypogastrium, may be usefully employed. In some constitutions, the preparations of opium are more useful, either by mouth or rectum, but especially in the form of suppository, than any other means, to allay spasmodic action about the urinary passages. Injlaiiimatory Contraclion.—When the mucous membrane of the urethra is the seat of acute in- flammation, it becomes tumid, and the calibre of the canal is narrowed to some extent. In ordinary attacks, however, although the stream of urine is on this account a little smaller than in health, the alteration is not the most prominent symptom, and therefore attracts little notice on the part of the patient ; moreover, it usually disappears with the subsidence of the acute symptoms. But if, by the application of too irritating injections applied in tlie early stage, the force of the inflammation is augmented; or if a profuse discharge be suddenly stopped, the aflFection is prone to extend more deeply, and stricture of a temporary kind and in- flammatory in its character is the result. The distressing pain which accompanies these attacks marks the nature of their cause. Mere spasmodic closure of the canal may at first be attended with no pain, the patient not suspecting his inability to micturate until the attempt to do so is made. But when inflammation is the chief agent in producing retention in the manner described, a considerable amount of suffering precedes it. There are present unusual heat, sense of fulness and tenderness of the perineum; the stream of urine is at first gradually narrowed, and so painful is its passage to the exquisitely sensitive urethra, that the patient is wont to compare it to that of "boiling water or melted lead " trickling through it. It is then ejected in small and short jets with great force, at gradually lessening intervals, until the straining becomes almost constant, and it soon ceases to pass at all. The treatment of inflam- matory contraction may be considered for the most part the same as that just described under the head of spasmodic stricture, with this distinction, that the remedies more adapted to subdue active inflammation are those on which most reliance must be placed. Tlius also leeches or cupping to the perineum may be employed, sometime^ with great relief. But, generally spi'akiiig, in- flammatory contraction first comes under the sur- geon's care when producing retention of urine, and under that head the subject of treatment will be further pursued. (See Urine, Retention ok.) L'icaminaiiun of the Urelkra Jor Ulridure Diagnosis. The symptoms of stricture, hovvevei well marked, do not atl'ord all the inlormaiion j-g. quired. It is necessary to ascertain whether a permanent obstruction exists, and, if so, at what part of the canal; whether it consists of one con- traction only or of several; whether it involves a small or a large portion of the canal. In order to do this, instruments of various forms and compositions may be used; some soft and pliable, others elastic, others inflexible and solid. Some surgeons use curved and some straight in- struments for the purpose. Either may be readily passed into the bladder, but when solid instru- ments are employed the former are generally better, and it appears advisable to adopt a form which corresponds somewhat to the natural curve of the canal through which it is designed to pass. When bougies are very flexible, like the extremely useful soft black bougies, chiefly made in France, the straight instrument passes quite as easily as one which is curved. It finds, in fact, its own way in following the course of the urethra. In introducing the curved silver catheter, it is desirable to follow a uniform plan ; such a practice leads sooner to perfection in the art than can be attained when indifference to method exists. First, as to the position of the patient. It is usual in most cases to place him with his back against the wall. In this case, the heels should be eight or ten inches apart, and about four or five inches from the wall, so that the nates rest lightly against it behind, the toes turned a little outwards ; in this manner a relaxed condition of the parts is favoured. An appropriate instrument having been selected, it should be warmed, and smeared with oil or lard. In introducing it, the handle should be lightly held between the thumb and the fore and middle fingers of the right hand, the concavity of the curve looking towards the left groin of the patient. The penis is no w to be gently raised with the left hand, while the point of the instrument is inserted into the urethra and slowly carried onwards until four or five inches have disappeared, the handle being gradu- ally brought to the middle line at the same time, aud maintained close to the patient's abdomen until it has reached the perpendicular, when it is to be lightly depressed; and as the point is felt to traverse the sub-pubic curve, the handle is gradually- brought down towards the operator, until it sinks beneath the horizontal line, when the opposite ex- tremity will be free in the bladder. The more quietly, gently, and unostentatiously these mani- pulations are accomplished, the more credit will the operator obtain for the possession of a light and easy hand; a credit, let it be remarked, which is generally appreciated by the patient. Whatever obstruction is met with, no force is to be used. If dirticulty occurs in the act of depressing the handle,just after this has reached the perpendicular, it very probably arises (supposing no organic coii^ striction to exist) from making this alteration in its course too soon; and if the instrument be replaced in the perpendicular position and pushed onwards a little farther, before depression is made, very likely all will be right. If a solid sound of good size be used, and the urethra be healthy, its ov/n weight is almost siiflicient to carry it through the canal; or at all events a very slight pressure from the fore-finger upon its handle will be amply sufli- cient, if additional impetus be required. It is never to be forgotten that a lever of a very power- I'lil kind is in action when depression of the handle is made, the extremity of which lever is in the