PYEMIA. 498 tion. The local symptoms need therefore bear 110 direct proportion to the constitutional alYec- tion. The purely mechanical view of accounting for all secondary obstructions appears most iniperfoct. In the skin we ma)', indeed, observe the process by which these secondary congestions are formed. A circular patch will assume a livid hue, and every point will be equally affected. The blood in each capill.nry branch will become stagnant, while the surrounding skin will retain its natural appear- ance. It is quite unreasonable to suppose that all the vessels in the affected portions of skin should be obstructed by minute portions of the original clot, and that none of these should have passed into the unaffected parts of the skin. Such an action can only be accounted for by the coagu- lation of the blood in the part. All the changes which take place in inflamma- tion of one of the larger veins may take place in the secondary affections. The coagulura may be dissolved in the smaller as in the larger veins, and (together with any extraneous matter that it may contain) may be removed to some other part of the body, or, the coagulum remaining, it may lose its colouring m.atter, undergo a fatty or pigmental degeneration, or it may shrink and acquire the character of a fibrillated tissue, and become part of the organised structure of the body. Should the coagulum consist of irritating fluids in conjunction ■with the blood, inflammation will be set up in the immediate neighbourhood of the obstructed vessels. Lymph will be deposited, and will add to the in- duration which previously existed, and the circu- lation through the part will be still further obstructed. At this stage of the disease it is not at all uncommon for portions of the affected part to mortify ; when the skin is aft'ected this is pro- bably the most frequent termination. In the lungs, which are supplied with blood from both sides of the heart, mortification is seldom ob- served, and in the spleen and liver it scarcely ever t;ike3 place, but the structure of these organs becomes broken down in a manner which much more resembles the effects of decomposition or softening than of inflammation. Should the part not pass into a state of mortifi- cation, then, the following changes generally occur : the centre of the indurated mass becomes softened, and converted'into puriform fluid. This fluid is often of a dirtv-brown colour, as though some blood or small portion of the organ had de- composed in it. It is not coutamed, like an abscess, in a distinct cyst, but is surrounded by the purple induration, caused by the effused lymph mixed with the stagnant blood. By degrees all the affected portions lose their consistency and become broken down. Tlie softening takes place from the centre towards the circumference of each discoloured spot, till they become converted into so many distinct abscesses. •2. The admixture of diseased secretions with the blood, instead of inducing coagulations, may give to the blood a tendency to separate into its different elements. Fibrin in combination witli albumen will then be dcpo ited in some part of the vascular system, where it may become united to adjacent parts, or the portions of librin so de- poRitid may undergo furliier changes which bear some rcsenlblance to ordinary suppuration. 3. Decomposition of blood in living vessels. There can be no doubt that the blood is veritably poisoned by the introduction of putrid matters, and that death in pyjemia more often results from this condition tiiaii from any local effects. The symptoms, which follow the injection of putrid fluids are altogether more severe, rapid, and diffused than those which follow the injection of fluids con- taining solid particles. The phenomena of coagu- lation and embolism may be present or not; but the blood is so vitiated that it is no longer fitted for the nutrition of the tissues, and the interchanges which should take place between these no longer occur, and the circulation through the capillaries may consequently become arrested. Decomposition may take place while the blond is yet in the living body. If once commenced it may rapidly be communicated either b)' contact or by the removal of the decomposing blood, either in a fluid or semi-coagulated state, to a dis- tant part of the circulation. If a very small piece of cotton wadding, for instance, be soaked in a putrid fluid, and introduced into a vein, in twenty-four hours the blood, for many inches up the "vein, will have formed a dark gela- tinous clot, which if left will soon pass through the various stages of putrefaction. This action will be generally accompanied by inflammation of the vessel in which the decomposing blood is contained. . The surrounding parts will then be- come involved, and the whole will form, if tliR action be snfliciently long continued, a putrid abscess. The following experiments of M. Gaspard indicate how readily the results of decomposition may be conveyed from one part of the body to another. Ejcpminenl.—" Two ounces and a half of thick fetid fluid, derived from the maceration of cabbage leaves in an equal quantity of water for two days, at a temperature of 77" Fah., were injected into the right jugular vein of a moderate sized dog. During the operation the animal became faint, and vomited several times. Some hours afterwards there was a great uneasiness and oppression, with recurrence of the vomiting, and continued faintness during the day. After nine hours a most copious and very fetid evacuation took place. The dis- charge was as black as soot, and composed of mucus, with a little fsecal matter, and a large quan- tity of what appeared to be corrupted blood. Some time afterwards there was a second evacua- tion of bloody mucus, exactly resembling the first. On the following, day there was much loss ol strength—the animal lay upon its side, or stagi;ered as it walked. There was great and insatiable thirst, with a small, feverish pulse ; but the most remarkable svmptom was the occurrence, at in- tervals, of palpitation of the heart, accompanied by great increase of impulse and sound. On the third and fourth days the animal was better, but there was still great thirst, fever, and occasional rejection of fluids from the stomach. On the filth d.ay the symptoms became aggravated. There was extreme weakness, a tottering gait, excessive thirst, the eyes red, and filled with gum, the nostrds «ere ffed, swollen, and obstructed with mucus, anrt " ' mouth was the middle of the day stu the Viiiing membrane of the mouth was tumid, and red colour. In the middle oi u-^^ u..> a liquid greyish-white ev.-xcual.on, re- , .3 in its odour, consi.stence and np- of a violet red colour, there was sembliug pus n. of putrified blood, pearance, mixed with some ciocs m i Death occurred during the following night.