406 seldom reappears either in the part or in another bone. If the part ia not amputated, the skin over the tumor sloughs, or ulcerates, the tumor is exposed, and a discharge, sanious, or ichorous, talces place from it, under which the patient gra- dually sinks." (See Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 50.) [Bell held the opinion that the bones are very rarely the seat of primary cancer, but that they become involved through extension of the disease from the soft parts surrounding them ; the papers bv Mr Sibley and Mr. Baker on the statistics of cancer (Med. Chir. Trans, vols. xlii. and xlv.) give, however, an average of nearly four cases, ongin- ating in bone, out of every hundred of this disease The Transactions of the Pathological Society, and the Medical Journals also, record numeroiis ex- amples where bone was primarily attacked. Every variety of cancer has been met with in bone, but by far the most frequent is the encephaloid. Me- lanosis and colloid disease are rare ; the latter has been mostly found in the articular ends of bones, expanding them and forming large tumors ; the former generally infiltrates the osseous tissue, but without causing much enlargement. . Scirrhus in bone is not common. Nelaton (,/i,ie- mens de Path. Chir. vol. ii. p. 28) and others even deny its existence. When met with it is gene- rally in small scattered masses, which are de- posited secondarily to the same disease in other organs, but a case is related where it occurred primarily in the lower jaw, and formed a large tu- mor without any similar deposit in the other parts. Epithelial disease has, in a very few instances, been met with as a primary affection in bone but it is usually the result of an extension ot the idceration from the neighbouring parts. Osteoid cancer, or, as Mr. Stanley terms it, the "malignant osseous tumor," is of rare occurrence. Muller first directed attention to this disease under the name of the " Osseoid tumor," and it has since been ably described by Mr. Paget (^wr^. Paffi. vol ii ). Its malignant character is now generally recognised, although Lebert does not class it amongst the cancerous growths. (For a description of these several varieties of the disease, see article Cancer.) . , ^ • u Encephaloid disease is, in the great majority ot cases, the cause of cancerous tumors of bone, and may be developed in its interior, or upon its surface beneath the periosteum. Occasionally m^l'g- nant deposit will assume the form of small nodules studding the osseous tissue ; these increase in size at the expense of the bone, which, on maceration, shows excavations and holes from loss of substance: this variety is most frequently met with in the flat bones, but may also occur in the others. In some few cases the cancerous matter has been found to infiltrate the whole bone, causing absorp tion of its cancellated texture and replacing it, so that the bone becomes softened, and in this con- dition the disease has considerable resemblance to, and has been described as, Mollites Ossiura. (bee MOLLITIISR OSSIUM.) When cancer is deposited in the substance ot bone it may produce great enlargement by sepa ration of its layers, and distension of the cancelli ; the tumor is then divided into a number of irre- gular cavities which vary much in size and shape, and are filled by the morbid material. This form of the disease is often seen in the articular extremities OSTEOSARCOMA. of bone, and has been called a malignant eaostom. Sometimes the outer layers are expanded by the cancerous growth, whilst the internal structure is destroyed : the investing shell becomes gradually thinned and friable, so that when pressed upon by the finger it yields with a crackling sensation, and has on this account received the name of a Spina Ventosa. (See Spina Ventosa.) When the disease commences upon the surface of a bone, the tumor often increases rapidly in size, stretching the periosteum over it; the bone is gradually absorbed, leaving long sharp processes or needles projecting into the malignant mass ; after maceration, this acicular arrangement is very striking, nearly all the osseous texture having dis- appeared, except these thin elongated bony spines, which, standing out beyond the level of the original bone, radiate in all directions from it, and form a bony framework for the tumor, whilst the cancer- ous matter composing it is deposited in the inter- vals between them and over their points ; this variety of the disease has been described as a fungous tumor of the periosteum. Occasionally a section of one of these various masses will present a white or yellowish colouredlardaceous substance, which is greasy to the feel, and evidently contains much fatty matter ; this difference in its consist- ence has obtained for it the name of an Osteostea- toma (offriov, and criap, fat.) In general, both to the eye and under the microscope, one of these malignant tumors of bone is precisely simi- lar to soft cancer in the other parts, except that when primarily developed in osseous tissue the morbid formation may perhaps, in its early stages, be of a somewhat firmer consistence. _ _ A favourite site for these cancerous growths is in the articular ends of bones, yet the cartilage cover- ing them is very rarely, if ever, attacked ; even when the cancellous tissue is completely destroyed, the articular cartilage, although perhaps slightly- thinner than usual, is in other respects normal. Nelaton observes, that when these tumors do in- vade a joint, they creep round that part of the bone which is uncovered by cartilage, and find their way through the fibrous and synovial tissues; he mentions a case where the end of the femur was affected by cancer, which opened into the knee- joint through the intercondyloid notch, the cartil- ages everywhere remaining perfect. [Up. Ut. vol. ii. p. 28.) , Mr Caesar Hawkins has recorded an example of the disease protruding from the lower and pos- terior part of the patella, and thus gaming access into the joint. , i j„„ When the osseous tissue has been largely des- troyed, fracture may occur from very slight causes; it may happen that the interior of a bone has become completely disintegrated, whilst the cor ex only remains, with little or no enlargement of the shaft, and inconsequence of this thinning of its walls, the bone will readily break ; this is one of the causes of Fragilitas Ossium. (See this word; also Gcrdy, Maladies des Organesdu Mouve- Ti e cancerous deposit may be very '» extent, but yet has produced absorption of the bono sufficiently to permit of fracture from muscular or other efforts ; under these circumstances, in some ew ..stance , union has been found to have taken place. Occasionally the bone has become thickened and indurated in the neighbourhood of the disease,