ULC discharged as ichor. In this way "sloughing ulcers " form. " Phagedenic ulceration " again means much the same thing. The tissues die so rapidly, that they separate in mass and disappear as if quickly eaten or consumed awaj'. In "gan- grene," the most destructive of all the effects of inflammation, tiie part dies throughout its whole thickness—the action is essentially the same, only much more rapid and severe.] ULCERS. — [These are the sores which form as a result of ulceration. Boyer used the term in a wider sense, and his definition has been ia a great me.isure adopted by systematic writers. He says •— "An ulcer iaa solution of continuity of the soft parts, more or less ancient, accompanied by a dis- charge of purulent matter, and maintained by a local vice or an internal cause." We have two stages in the history of an ulcer which are distinct, and not unfrequentiy separated by a third, or condition of quiescence or rest. During the first stage they spread or enlarge, while during the second they heal. The first is the true ulcerative stage, when destruction pre- dominates ; the second, is the period of repair, when healing or cicatrisation is in progress, and we find lymph deposited and becoming organised into new tissue. The period of quiescence which, interposes may be of greater or less duration, being at times little observed, and at othors so pro- longed as to extend over a lengthened period. When an ulcer is spreading, the signs of inflam- mation will be more or less evident aroimd it; and, as a rule, the more the}' are marked, the more rapid will be the destruction of tissue. Heat, pain, red-, ness, and swelling will be present, and the ulcer will deserve more or less the designation of " in^ flamniatory." In general, the inflammation which attends spreading ulcers is of a low type, and marked by dusky redness and dull pain, while oedema and increased heat are also present. Occa- sionally the inflammation is eczematous, and cracks form, giving out a thin or gummy dis- charge, and causing much itching and discomfort. A spreading sore has irregular edgos, as a rule, and a greyish adherent slough. The more rapid the destruction^ the less will the discharge partake of the character of healthy laudable pus. When the spreading stops, and the stage of rest or cessa- tion occurs, the signs of inflammation having dis- appeared, the slmgh separates or is broken down in the discharge, the pain diminishes, the appear- ance of the edges and surface improves; and so the period of repair-is slowly estahlinhed by the effu- sion of plastic lymph on the surface and edges, the organisation of that lymph into granulations, and the final closure of the wound by the coalescence of these and the formation of tissue. The ediies get rounded off, and are approxinuited more or l^ss to one another; pus takes the place of the thin ichorous discharge, and the ulcer hccomes a " heal- ing sore." Ulcers, then, heal mainly by granula- tion, but their repair is materially aided by the appio.xiniation of their sides or edges, and it is in order to assist these two [jrocesses that our cura- tive measures are directed. The smaller the cica- trix which remains after liealing, the less is the ri;k of the sore becoming re-established. 'J lie plastic lymph deposited on the surface and edges of a healing sore becomes vascular by the extension to it from neighbouring vessels of out- growing arterial loops. The lymph soon assimics ERS. 807 the papillary arrangement so characteristic of granulations ; these become converted into fibro- cellular tissue, and finally get covered with skin, by which the integrity of the part is restored. The appearance of the granulations will vary con- siderably, according to the blood stipply, &c., and such appearances will convey to the instructed attendant most important information, not only as to the tendency of the sore to heal, bu.t also as to the state of the patient's health and the condition of the part in which the sore is situated ; and it is this freqaient changing with the temporary con- ditions of the patient's health that is one reason why the characters of ulcers are often so various and confusing. When the sore is healthy and tending to heal, the granulations are small, red, accuminated, sensitive, close-set projections bathed in creamy pus. They grow to a level with the edges of the sore (which, if formerly elevated, subside by the removal of the inflammatory de- posits in them), and from these edges the healing process proceeds inwards towards the centre, where the last point to close will be found. A fine whitish- blue scale will be seen to form over the granula- tions lying along the edge, and thia shades off towards the sore in a delicate red hue, and comes to mark the sore round with a, smooth opaline glazed band, of greater or less breadth, which soon becomes converted into new skin. The whole surface before long gets glazed, the discharge diminishes, the diameter contracts so iis to lessen the extent to heal and render the resulting cicatrix considerably less than the original sore, and this cicatrix may go on.contracting for a length of time, but ultimately assimilates, itself more and more to the normal structure of the part. When some portions of old skin have remained in the ulcer, they supply detached centres from which new skin forms, and then the final healing is greatly accele- rated. The contraction, which follows cicatrisation is greatest in loose textures, and it is after burns that we find it longest present and most marked. (See GRANUtATiuN, in vol. i.) The n.earer ulcers are to the centre of the circulation, as a rule, the easier are they to heaL Those, placed on the trunk cicatrise fastest, other things being equal ; next those on the upper extrenjity, and lastly those on the lower limbs, especially in tall persons. The state of the general health and the local con- dition would however greatly influence the healing tendency. ° Ulcers may be situated anywhere under special circumstances, but it is on the lowey part of the. leg that they are eominonly met with. The dis- tance from the heart, and consequently the weakened circulation, the difficult}' attending the venous return, and the many obstructions to which it is liable, ca.nse varix to arise, the vitality of tho integuments to be diminished, and thus their destructi(m by ulceration to be facilitated. When the circulation is further weakened by low fevers starvation, old age, or other debilitating cause, or when the limb is kept in a congested state by too prolonged mainfen.-jnce of the erect posture, or by being nuich ijninpr.6ed in water, then tiie samo result is apt to follow. In short, congestion being most liable to occur in the lower extremity, renders the fornuiiion of ulcers there more frequent than in other parts. Ulcers have been variously classified by different autliors, and generally on insufticiont and unsatis-