784 ciura to tlie portion of the margin of the eyelid which surrounds the orifices for the ej-ehishes. The calcium, after five minutes, is washed awaj' with a sponge, and the ej'elashes left to themselves. During the application, a spatula is placed between the lid and the ej-eball to protect the latter. The growth of eyelashes has been prevented b)' destroy- ing their papillas with pure liquor-potassae. A needle, moistened with it, is thrust alons; the eye- lashes in the direction of and a little beyond the papilla. Slight inflammation follows. The eye- lashes, after a few days, are drawn out with the forceps.] The cure of the second species of trichiasis, or that which is commonly met with in practice, is accomplished by artificially everting the eye- lid, and fixing it permanently in its natural po- sition, together with the eyelashes which irritate the globe of tlie eye. This indication is perfectly fulfilled by the excision of a piece of skin close to the edge of the eyelid, of such a breadth and ex- tent that, when the cicatrix is formed, the tarsus and margin of the eyelid may be turned outwards and sufficiently separated from the eyeball, the ci- catrix of the integuments afihrding a point of sup- port fully adequate to keep the parts in their natural position and direction. ■ The following is the mode of proceeding. The patient being seated in a chair, if an adult, or, if a child, laid upon a table, with the head raised, and firmly held by an assistant, who must stand behind the patient, the sur- geon is to push outward, with the end of a probe, the hairs which irritate the eye. Then, with a pair of dissecting forceps, or the ends of his forefinger and thumb, he should lift up a fold of the skin of the eyelid, taking great care that the piece which is taken hold of corresponds exactly to the middle of the whole extent of tlie trichiasis ; for, sometimes the whole, sometimes half, and in other instances only a third of the extent of the tarsus is inverted. The surgeon, with his left hand, must raise the fold of the skill, more or less, according as the relaxation of the integuments, and the inversion of the tarsus, are more or less considerable. The reason of this is evident, viz. the greater the quantity of skiu is, which is raised, the greater is the quautity which will be cut awaj'. Supposing the patient to be an adult, as soon as the fold of skin has been raised in a certain degree, the surgeon must request him to open his eye ; and if, in this act, the tarsus and eyelashes resume their natural place and direction, the portion of skin already raised will be sufiicient for the purpose. When the integuments are elevated, by means of a pair of dissecting forceps, and care is taken to lay hold of the skin precisely at the middle point of the whole extent of the trichiasis, it necessarily follows, that the consequent section of the skin will form an oval, and that the greatest width of tlie wound will correspond exactly, or nearly so, to the middle of the eyelid, and its narrowest parts to the angles, or commissures of the same. ^This contributes very materially to make the cicatrix correspond to the natural fold of the eye- lid, aiid hinder the origin of a disease of an opposite nature to the one about to be remedied, toward the angles of the eye, viz. a turning out of the com- missures of the eyelids. Sec I'Ictkopium. J3esidcs_ this caution, relative to the situation TRICHIASIS. and figure of the fold of the integuments to be cut off, the surgeon must be careful tliat the divi- sion of the skin be made very near the inverted tarsus. Were this circumstance neglected, the operator might have the mortification of findiiiL', alter the wound has been healed, that alihough the eyelid is shortened on the wliole, from the eyebrow to the place of the recision, yet it is not equally so at the space which is between the edge of the eyelid and the cicatrix of the skin. Hence the tarsus would not be turned outward sufficiently to keep the eyelashes from rubbing against the eye. The surgeon holding up the fold of skin by means of the forceps, in his left hand, is, with a pair of probe-pointed sharp-curved scissors, to cut off the whole of the duplicatiire, being first sure that one of the blades of the instrument is applied close to the edge of the eyelid. If the two eyelids should be affected, the same operation must imme- diately be done upon both of them, with such cautions and in such proportion, as the extent of the disease, and th.e degree of inversion of each ej'elid, may require. No suture to unite the wound is required, it is sufficient to keep the eyebrow as much downward as possible, if the operation had been done on the upper eyelid, or, if on the lower, to support it against the inferior arch of the orbit, by pressing it from below upwards, so as to keep the edges of the wound from becoming separated. Then the lips of the wound are to be brought exactly together, by means of strips of adhesive plaster, extending from the superior arch of the orbit to the zygoma ; and the maintenance of this state of the wound will be still more securely effected by placing two compresses, one on the eyebrow and another on the zygoma, together with a bandage. On taking off the first dressings, the third day after the operation, the surgeon will find, says Scarpa, that the patient can open his eye with ease, and that the inverted tarsus and eyelashes have resumed their natural position and direction. In the partial, or incomplete trichiasis, or that which only occupies a half, or a third, of the whole length of the tarsus, and in subjects who have had the skin of the eyelids very loose, Scarpa has often found the wound perfectly united on remov- ing the first dressing. When, however, only a part of the incision has healed, while the rest seems disposed to heal by suppuration and granulation, the surgeon is to cover the wound with a small piece of lint, spread with the unguentimi cerussa; ; and if tlie soro shoidd become flabb)', it must be occasionally touched with the argcntura nitratum until the cure is finished. With regard to the first form of this disease, or that in which the eyelashes project against the I'yeball, without the natural position of the tarsus being at all altered (a case which is fortunately rare), the accomplishment of a cure is difficult, since neitlier the pulling out of the hairs, nur burn- ing the situation of their roots, are means at all to be depended upon for producing a complete euro of the disorder; and turning the tarsus out of its natural position would make the patient liable to ail irremediable dropping of the tears over t ie cheek, attended with'a chronic thickening of ine lining of the eyelid. It has only been in youngi'l^'