140 JOINTS, D SEASES OF. head, and neck of the femur, with several sinuses leading from the joint, and one, in particular, of large size, leading towards the rectum through the foramen ovale. There is also another in the rectum, with a rounded aperture sufficient to admit the point of the little finger, <ibout an inch and a half above the anus. (See W. Couhon, On Dis, of Hip-joint, p. 40.) 4thly. In consequence of the abscess, the synovial membrane and capsular ligament become inflamed and thickened. The muscles are altered in structure ; sinuses are formed in various parts; and at last all the soft parts are blended to- gether in one confused mass, resembling the parietes of an ordinary abscess. (Merf. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 246-7.) [Of late years, smCe the operation of excision has come into practice for the removal of the carious and necrosed parts of the hip-joint, we have been enabled to verify certain conditions of disease which formerly were only surmised. We have in fact an examination of a hip-jouit in the living body, and are thus better enabled to understand the pro- gress of the morbid processes which are taking place. It will be of advantage in this place to refer to the condition in which the hip-joint was found in the statistics of fifty-nine cases collected by Mr. P. C. Price, wherein excision of the whole or certain parts of the articulation was practised. Tlie operation itself as a means of treatment we shall discuss in another place. (See Joints, Ex- cision OF.) Among the fifty-nine cases, the particulars of which had been authenticated by Mr. Price, in sixteen the head of the femur, much diseased, was dislocated from its acetabular connections, and no disease of the pelvis existed. In eighteen cases the head of the femur, also much diseased, was dis- located from the acetabulum, and more or less disease of the acetabular portion of the pelvis ex- isted. Five cases had the diseased action more or less confined to the synovial and cartilaginous structures of the articulation; and such bony por- tions of the joint as were involved did not partake of the character of either caries or necrosis, being rather simple stripping or denudation of perios- teum. In fourteen cases, the integrity of the joint was more or less destroyed, either femoral or pelvic, or both, although no dislocation or rupture of the capsular ligament had occurred. And in six cases no exact knowledge of the state of the parts was possessed by Mr. Price. (See TJie Lancet, vol. i. 1860, p. 419.) In an instance in which Mr. Hancock operated,—the second, in fact, wherein the joint was wholly excised,—the head of the femur and acetabulum were exten- sively diseased; the latter was penetrated witli numerous openings. The spine of the ischium and a portion of the tuberositj"-, also both dis- eased, were removed with the entire acetabulum and head of the femur. The fingers could be passed into the pelvis through the ischiatic notches. Yet with all this amount of disease, the head of the tliigh-bone was not dislocated, and the patient made a good recover^'. (The Lancet^i vol. i. 1858, p. 119.) Mr. Hancock had previously done the first operation of excising the entire joint, including the acetabulum, in a boy fourteen years of age, in t!ic early part of 1057. [KM. vol. i. 1857, p. 141.) Mr. Erichsen had a girl under his care, whose pelvic disease was more extensive than in any case hitherto placed on record. He e.\- cised the upper end of the femur, the acetabulum,, the rami of the pubes and of the ischium, a portion of the tuber iscliii, <ind a part of tlie dorsum ilii. This patient, when admitted into University College Hospitiil, was in the last stage of dis- ease, exhausted by the constant discharge, and must inevitably have speedily sunk under the effects of the disease, had no elTort been made to remove the cause of the prostration. At the ope- ration she was so exhausted that it was necessary to leave her on the table for some hours before she was sufficiently restored to bear moving into bed. Nevertheless this girl made a rapid and good re- covery. (See The Lancet, vol. ii. 1858, p. 88; and Erichsen, Science a?id Art of Surgery, p. 745, ed. 3.) In the Museum of the Charing Cross Hospital there is a preparation from Mr. Howships' collec- tion, showing an extensive perforation of the acet.abulum from ulcerative disease, equally affect- ing the head of the femur. The acetabulum has been prolonged about an inch upwards. (See Barwell, Dis. of tlie Joints, p. 313.) Femoral Coxalgia, or Chronic Disease of the Hip-joint. — This is usually divided into three stages, which for the most part are sufficiently well marked, and correspond with certain periods in the progress of the disease. The first or incipient stage, as it is called, extends from the appearance of the earliest symptoms to the period when elon- gation of the limb and lameness manifest them- selves. The second is known by wasting and flattening of the nates, which are also flabby; the limb is weak, and elongated in reality, or appa- rently so, with a lateral twist of the spine ; whilst in the third stage we have severe pain, the occurrence of suppuration, and shortening of the limb, either from ulcerative absorption of the head of the thigh-bone or dislocation. (See Coulson, Lectures on Dis. of the Joints, vol. ii.; Lancet for 1854, p. 499.)] The approach of this disease of the hip-joint may be rather insidious (in the first stage), its only forerunner being sometimes a slight weakness and limping of the affected limb. These trivial sj-mptoms are often not sufficiently urgent to excite much notice ; and, when observed by superficial practitioners, are commonly misunderstood, and wrongly treated. As there is sometimes an un- easiness in the knee when the hip is affected, care- less practitioners frequently mistake the seat of the disease; and I have many times seen patients, on their entrance into an hospital, having a poultice on their knee, while the wrong state of the hip was not at all suspected. This mistake is extremelj' detiimcntal; for in this stage of the disease mere rest and repeated topical bleeding will do more good in the course of a fort- night, than large painful issues will afterwards accomplish in the long space of a twelvemonth. The symptoms of this disease of the hip-joint, when only looked for in the situation of that arti- culation, are not very obvious. Though in some instances, the attention of the surgeon is soon called to the right situation of the disease by the existence of a fixed pain behind the trochanter miijor; yet it is too often the case, that mere pain about an articulation, entirely destitute of visible enlargement and change of colour, is dis- regarded as a complaint of no importance among young subjects, and as a rheumatic or gouty affec- tion in adult?. Patients frequently complain of