Sa URINARY concretions are termed by Frencli pathologists calculs pilifires, a subject adverted to by M. Jules Cloquet. (^Pathol. Chir. p. 101.) Litliic acid is itself very commonly the nucleus, even where the whole calculus is not of the same material. That many urinary calculi are originally pro- duced in the liidney is certain ; first, from the severe pain which the passage of such foreign bodies down the ureter always excites ; and, secondljf, from their being often discovered in the infundibula and pelvis of that viscus after death. This last fact is well illustrated in the first plate of Dr. Marcet's interesting Essay on iJie Chemical History and Medical Treat- ment of Calculous Disorders, 8vo. 1817. The engraving is taken from a preparation in the Mu- seum of Guy's Hospital. In this instance, there were several calculi closely pressed against each other ; but in another example, drawn from a specimen in Mr. Abernethy's museum, the renal concretion was composed of a single mass, which represented a complete cast of the pelvis, and part of the infundibula of the kidney. In this form of the disease, the kidney loses at last all vestiges of its natural structure, and is converted into a kind of cyst, filled with the extraneous substance. Wlien so complete an alteration of the structure takes place, the secretion of urine must of course be entirely carried on by the other kidney. How- ever, iu some instances, the inconvenience thus produced is so slight that it almost escapi'S notice ; and sometimes even both kidneys are diseased in a very great degree, and yet life is preserved for a considerable time. {Op. cit. pp. 3, 4.) Calculi are sometimes found in the ureters, especially at the upper part; but it is not sup- posed that they are originally formed there ; an event not likely to happen, tniless there were some cause retarding the descent of the urine through those tubes. The common belief is, that all calculi found in the ureter are first produced in the infundibula and pelvis of the kidney, from which they afterwards descend with the urine. The generality of calculi, however, which leave the kidney are of small size, and, consequently, after a time, and exciting some pain and inconve- nience, they usually pass into the cavity of the bhidder. Indeed, as Dr. Marcot remarks, the bladder is the most frequent seat of calculi: not only because all urinary concretions, or their nuclei, formed in the kidneys, tend to fall into that organ; but, also, because a stone may be, and probaljly often is, originally formed in the bladder itself. Renal concretions vary considerably in their number, m.e, and shape. In some cases, a single suuiU calculus has been found occupying one of the foregoing situations; while, in other instances, an innumerable collection of calculous substances are observed filling the whole of the cavity ot the pelvis and infundibula of the kidney, distending its parietes, and even obstructing the passage of the urine out of tliis viscus, which is converted into a sort of membranous cyst. Lastly, a single stone in the kidney may acquire a very large size there; or a great number of small calculi, in the Barnc situation, may become cemented together, so as to form one mass of enormous dimensions, and the shape of which invariably corresponds to the CALCULI. space in which it is, as it were, moulded. Hence renal calculi often present a variety of odd, irre- gular figures, resembling those commonly observed in specimens of coral. Great disorder of the stomach, frequent vomit- ing, and great irritability of the bladder arc coni' mon effects of a calculus in the kidney. Sir A Cooper met with a case, in which the chief pain was at the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. It has been already remarked, that urinary con^ cretions of large size very often exist in the kidney, without their presence being indicated bj' any ex- ternal circumstances, or attended with any symp- toms sufficiently unequivocal to constitute a ground for suspecting the importance of their cause. On the other hand, it is very usual for renal calculi, of middling dimensions, to excite se- rious and alarming complaints. The reason of this difference becomes obvious, when it is recol- lected that smallish concretions are readily carried with the urine into the ureter, and become fixed in the narrow portion of the tube. But very large calculi can be contained only in the upper part of this canal, where its parietes are more yielding, and the s-pace in them more capacious. Calculi of middling size, in their passage through the ureter, cause, at first, a feeling of heaviness, Ot an indeterminate sense of uneasiness, and an ob- tuse pain in the region of the corresponding.kidney. These complaints occur at intervals of greater or less duration. At length, the pain grows more urgent and annoying, attended with flatulence, heart-burn, frequent vomiting, painful retraction of the testicle, and sometimes acute fever. Ki Sir A. Cooper has remarked, it is at the period when the calculus is passing over the lumbar plexus, that a great deal of pain is felt in the groin and in the course of the anterior crural nerve, just as the spasmodic contraction of the cremaster arises at the time when the calculus is descending over the spermatic plexus. The patient makes water frequently, and in small quantities at a time and the urine is high-coloured and bloody. The patient cannot sit upright, his body being bent for wards towards the affected side. These symptom may have more or less duration, and then suddenly cease. They may also subside, and recur several times, at intervals of some days. In the lattei case, the pain is felt at each attack to be situated lower in the track of the ureter. Lastly, when th svmptoms have entirely disappeared, the urine « more abundant, not so high-coloured, and easllj discharged, the stream sometimes bringing out witt it the urinary concretion, after its entrance into tw bladder. Supjmration of the kidney, and an abscess ir the lumbar region, in consequence of renal calculi are not verv common events. However, these ar* the only cases of the kind in which the mterpo sition of surgery can be useful. By adverting « previous circumstances, and the irregularity ot tn pain about the kidney, the practitioner may suspec the nature of a phlegmonous tumor in the sitiia tion of this viscus. Whatever may he his con jecturcs, however, he must carefully abstain Iron the use of his lancet, until purulent plainly under the integuments. Ho ma) safolv make an opening, from ^vhich urine mid l'<'^ willbe discharged, and '''■""'P'Vu.,ml extracted themselves may sometimes be Iclt -"iu