362 NOS the mouth, hj fastening it to the upper lip with a piece of adhesive plaster. A still more simple mode is to use a loop of catgut, which will pass to the back of the fauces as readily as wire, or a bougie, and one portion of it being then drawn forwards out of the mouth, will serve for the convej'ance of the plug of lint to the posterior ^opening of the nasal fossa. Nose, Operation for the Besloraiion of. The Tagliacotian method, which consisted in employing a portion of the integuments of the forearm for the purpose, is now superseded by the oriental plan, in which the cicatrized remains of the former nose are converted into fresh-cut surfaces, and a flap of skin, duly shaped, is twisted, and brought down from the forehead, so as to admit of being united to them. This is the rJdnoplastic art, as it is termed, from pli', the [nose, and 7r\c£TT6ij/, to form, which has been practised in India time immemorial, and for many centuries in Italy, where cutting off the nose was a cOmnion punish- ment for certain offences, even as long ago as the j)eriod of the ancient Romans. The following is the mode adopted by Mr. Listen:—" A piece of soft leather, cut to the shape and size of the inte- gument required to replace the apex aiid alaj, is placed flat upon the forehead. To secure accu- racy in the line of incision, its boundaries are marked on the skin with ink, in case the patient prove unsteady. The flap being thus defined, is dissected down, and kept of uniform thickness, till near the lower angle, when the incisions should be carried deeply, so as to insure an abundant vascular supply. Care_ should be taken, however, to avoid the periosteum, for otherwise exfoliation may follow, which would increase the scar, and render the cure tedious. This narrow part of the flap, or attachment at the root of the nose, roust be of some length, to allow of its being twisted, so as to bring the integument to the exterior, when the part is adapted to its new situation ; and to facilitate this, the knife should be carried a little lower down on that side on which it is intended to make the turn. After the bleeding has ceased, the flap is retained in apposition with the raw edges of the truncated organ, by points of suture. A little oiled lint is placed in the nostrils to support the flap, but no other dressing should be applied. The surgeon should be in no hurry to fix the flap ; for union is most likely to occur when bleeding has ceased, and the edges of the wounds have begun to assume the glazed appearance, which precedes secretion. The lower part of the wound in the forehead is brought together by suture. To the rest, lint moistened with warm water, and covered with oiled silk, is applied, the lint being rewetted from time to time." As for the nose itself, the lint may be removed in three or four days, and then too perhaps some of the stitches may be dis- pensed with. The flap will be found adherent, yet moveable with the breath. During the cure, contraction of the nostrils is prevented with tubes, When the nose is firmly consolidated, and a col- lateral circulation has been established, so as to become independent of the supply of blood through the twisted attachment, this is to be divided with a bistoury, so as to remove a wedge- liko portion, and let the front of it be laid down smoothly over the root of the nose. With respect to the cohimna, the practice in India was to obtain this by taking a slip from the forehead, along with the rest of the flap ; but Mr. Listen has fotind it much better first to form the main portion of the nose, as already described ; and, after this has become consolidated, to raise a colmnna from the upper lip. The inner surface bf the apex is first pared. A sharp-pointed bistoury is then passed through the upper lip, previously stretched and raised by an assistant, close to the remains of the former cOlumna. The incision is continued down to the free margin of the lip ; and a similar one, parallel to the former, is made on the opposite side of the central line, so as to make a flap about a quarter of an inch in breadth. The frsenulum is then divided, and the prolabium of the flap removed. The new columna is then fixed in its proper place with a sewing needle, which, after its head has been covered with sealing-wax, to faci- litate its introduction, is passed from without through the apex of the nose, and obliquely through the extremity of the elevated flap. Then a few turns of thread suffice to keep the fi'esli-cut surfaces in contact. Twisting the flap is here un- necessarj'. Lastly, the edges of the wound in the lip are to be brought together with the twisted suture. (See Harelip and Liston's Practical Surgeri/,]i.2iS.) [Calculus concretions have been met with in the nostrils, but they are of (very rare occurrence. It is not easy to account for their spontaneous for- mation, but foreign substances introduced by design or accidentally, have been kno%vn to become lodged in some of the intricacies of the nasal cavi- ties, and to have formed the nucleus of a nasal calculus. The symptoms of irritation and obstruc- tion caused by the preseiice of a nasal concretion or rhinolithe would induce the surgeOn to explore the nostril ; the more common affection of polypus would of course be suspected by him as the cause of the malady, unless the patient himself had dis- covered the hard nature of the obstruction and had informed his medical attendant of the circumstance. When accessible to an instrument introduced into the nostril, the surgeon can assure himself of the presence of a hard resisting object, which he must carefully diagnose from a denuded portion of the bony boundary of the nostril, this he would be enabled to do by the position of the concretion and by 'the absence of fa:tor and other characteris- tic symptoms of carious or necrosed bone. The treatment consists of operative procedure for the removal of the concretion, but the surgeon may expect to meet with difiiculties arising from its position and si^e. It may even be necessary to incise the nostril in order to obtain room for the ap- plication of the appropriate extracting instruments, whether forceps, levers, or scoops. Cartilaginous and _/i6ro!is growths have also been observed to arise from the interior of the nostril. In St. Mary's Hospital, my late colleague, Mr. Ure, met with an instance of the former blocking up and greatly distorting the nostril. The growth was attached to the septum and floor of the nostril. Mr. Ure removed it by detaching the ala nasi from the cheek, and by gouging out the cartilagmous mass. April 27th, 186L) I have myself met with two remarkable cases of hbrous growths springing from some portion of the mterjor of the nostril. In one case tlie growth extended along the lachrymal ducts into the orbits, producing pro- trusion of :the globes of the eye, threatening the