caied secretions, horny concretions, and epidermal squama; : in promoting secretion and soothing irritation of the inflamed skin; but if th.y be kept oil too long, they are apt to soften and weaken the skin, to increase the nervous irritability of the tissues, and perpetuate instead of relieving the morbid action. Thus a remedy which is the best for a time, niaj-, by misjudgment of the principle on which it is intended to operate, be converted into a means of irritation, and keep up the morbid action which it was expected to obviate. The same observation may be made in reference to loti ons, and further, as applicable to lotions, it must be remarked that however agreeable they may be while the moisture continues, the local irritation is apt to return with double force when their use is suspended and the surface becomes dry. Certain potvders of a cooling or absorbent nature are very useful remedies in some affections of the skin, and not unfrequently are the only applica- tion which the inflamed surface will bear; for example, wheaten starch in erysipelas, in some erythemata, in the phlyeten£e of herpes and zona, and especially in the bulla; of pemphigus. They shmild be dusted lightly and sparingly on the surface, lest they become agglutinated by the efl^used secretions, and converted into hard irritat- ing concretions. Rice powder, the oxide of zinc powder alone, or diluted with starch, and the zinc and starch powder with camphor are also useful remedies in these affections, and equally so in intertrigo both of the dry and the moist kind. The ointments applicable to affections of the skin are either soothing or stimulating in their nature ; the former being intended to subdue inflammatory action and calm irritation and pain, the latter to arouse action and cause dispersion of the morbid affection. Of the former kind are— the linimentum calcis with or without alcohol or liquor plumbi ; simple cerate or lard with liquor plumbi, alcohol, chloroform, glycerine, camphor, the cyanide of potassium, five grains to the ounce, or the calamine cerate of Turner; and above all the benziiated ointment of oxide of zinc, either/)er se or combined with alcohol, chloroform, liquor plumbi, or camphor. Of the latter kind are the unguentum plumbi compositum, ointments of the nitric oxide, nitrate, and ammonio-chloride of mercury; ointments of iodine, sulphur, carbolic acid, creosote, and tar, especially that of the pyro- ligneous oil of juniper. Liniments may be made to combine the cooling or soothing effects of a lotion, with the emollient and sheathing operation of an ointment, and may, at the same time, be made the vehicle of sedative or stimulating remedies. Milk and butter-niilk are the simplest forms of liniment ; then the linimentum calcis either alone or combined with alcohol, liquor plumbi, tincture of opium or chloro- form ; the linimentum saponis, linimentum cam- phora;, and linimentum ammoniie of the Phaima- copneia. Or the juniper tar liniment used l>y Ilebra in chronic eczema, and so invaluable in prurigo, namely, a mixture in equal iiroportions of the pyroligneous oil of juniper (lluile de Cade), sapo mollis, and alcohol. For the pyroligneous oil of juniper, flebra sometimes substitutes the oleum betuhe, or oleum fagi, and we have fmind the pix liqiiida equally valuable. And another remedy. Useful ill lupus erythematosus, that may bo treated of as a liniment, is iudurotted glycerine, a saturated vol,. II. SKIN, DISEASES OF. 593 solution, containing five grains of iodine to the ounce of glycerine. The purpose of soaps in cutaneous therapeutics is to cleanse a secreting surface of its morbid fluids and the desiccated and irritating secretions which are apt to foi-m on such surfaces; while, another purpose, in very chronic affections, or at the decline of acute diseases, is to restore the tone of the weakened tissues by mild stimnlation of the skin, and bring it back to its normal power of resisting the influence of the air and external irritants. With these objects in view, the com- mon hard and soft, the soda and potash soaps may be employed, a solution of soft soap in glj'ce- rine, the oxide of zinc soap, sulphur soap, petro- leum soap, or, a very valuable therapeutical agent, the juniper tar soap. Soap is also used as a coating for the skin; as when it is smeared on the surface and left to dry, and in this way performs the office of an ointment, and in certain cases is found less irritating than a greasy application. In the treatment of cutaneous diseases our re- sources cannot be multiplied over much. Caustic solutions and concentrated caustics are useful when a fixed abnormal action or chronic morbid irritation is to be removed, as in the case of chronic eczema, lupus erythematosus, or alphos, or where morbid tissues are to be destroyed, and the deeper structures stimulated to healthy action, as in the instance of lupus non exedens and lupus exedens. Hebra has introduced the use of caustic solutions of potash; they vary in strength, according to the nature of the disease to which they are to be applied, from five grains to the ounce of distilled water or glycerine to equal parts; and, employed with judgment and care, these solutions are of great value. The weaker kinds are simply stimu- lants, and by promoting exud.ition from the sur- face, disperse those thickenings of the skin, which are the result of infiltration of the tissues. The acetiim cantharid is made with strong acetic acid acts in a similar raiinner. But the stronger potash solutions are actively destructive of the 'tissues to which they are applied. The potassa fusa is the best remedy for small vascular na;vi, for verruca seb.aceous molluscous tumors, lupus tuberculosus' and for carcinoma glandulte seljipara. For ulcera- ting lupus Hebra gives a preference to the solid nitrate of silver, which he inserts deeply into the morbid tissues. The chloride of zinc is sometimes used as a stimulating lotion, and in a cuncentrated form, namely, equal parts of chloride of zinc and alcohol has been employed as a caustic in the treatment of ulcerative lupus. An objection to the chloride of zinc is the great pain which it occasions. Arsenic has also been employed advantageously iii the treatment of the ill-conditioned sores of lupus and especially in cancerous ulcerations. ' Constitutional Treatment.—Having taken in and carefully adjudicated for every possible requirement of the actual condition of the local disease, we must next turn our attention to the causes which may have given rise to it. The exciting causes will in most instances have been remedied by the local treatment, but if any excit- ing cause still remain it must be immediatelv removed. Next we must seek out the predisposintr causes : and for these, the constitution, the state of health, and the actual condition of the patient must be closely interrogated. Local disease is sometimes present without any constitutional cause