504 PYAEMIA liver apparently having acted as an elTective filter m preveiitiiii; the piissage of the decomposed ehmienta into the general circulation. iSyw;)^^^.—-Sonu'timea, after an injury to a vein has been followed by the formation of coagula, symptoms of exhaustion, almost amounting to col- hipse, set in with all suddenness. The patient struggles and gasps fur breath, while his features become remarkably anxious and pallid, without any appearance of venous discoloration. The pulse is small and intermitting ; the skin cold, and covered with a clammy perspiration, and the nius- cular strength gone. The heart's action is loud, ringing, and irregular. These are symptoms of venous embolism ; they denote that some coagula have reached the right side of the heart and even jiassed into its large vessels. This cardiac form of apnn3a, as Dr. Richardson has so well remarked, is due to the non-transmission of blood to the air, and not to any impediment to the ingress of air to ■ tlie blood. In Mr. Freer's case, recorded by Mr. Hodgson, these occurrences followed four hours after the sapheiia major vein had been tied for varices ; and, in another case, described by Dr.. Druitt {Medical Times and Gazotlci, SvXy 19, 18(j2), similar symptoms followed the translation of a thrombus from a vein in the thigh to the right side of the heart. Several other cases have been recorded at different times. The commencement of constitutional disease, after direct infection of tiie blood, is marked liy the sudden change in the manner and appearance of the patient. A severe rigor is usually the most prominent symptom, and is followed by much febrile excitement, or by extreme depression. A very peculiar heat of skin will sometimes be pre- sent, while at other times the surface will be covered by a profuse clanmiy perspiration. The fever is irregularlj^ intermittent or remittent in t3'pe, in the cases characterised bj'numerous blood clots and metastatic abscesses. Evening exacerba- tions are also commonly present. In cases of septiccemia, where a general infection of the blood exists without any necessary connection with blood-clotting embolism, and multiple abscesses, the range of the pulse and temperature is very much liigher, and the fever more continuous in type. Great depression frequently accompanies even the first stages of this disease, indicated by a want of tone in the pulse, b}' an extremely listless manner, and sometimes by a tendency to syncope. The countenance becomes anxious, the tongue dry and brown in the centre, and red at the edges; or, in other instances, it presents a coating of a pasty, yellowish-white colour ; a dusky yellow hue frequently pervades the skin, and sometimes the conjunctivce of the eyes. The pulse varies much in frequency in different cases, and at dif- ferent times in the same case; generally, it is very rapiil, especially when accompanied with much heat of skin. Sometimes there is severe pain, which may be referred exactly to the spot, that subsequent examination shows to have been the seat of secondary inthunmation ; at other times it 18 not confined to any particular situation, but consists of general ill-defined feelings of short duration, and recurring at irregular intervals. The licciiliarity of such sensations is best expressed by the terms applied to them by the patients tiiem- selves " catching pains all over," " soreness of the stomach," and " thrilling in the blood." Vomiting may occur, either as a symptom of con- stitutional disturbance, or as indicative of inflam- mation of an abdominal organ. In tlie latter cabe it is extremely obstinate, and the fluid ejected is generally of a green colour. Diarrhoja is a symptom of frequent occurrence. Its appearance will not nnfrequently be accompanied by relief of the other symptoms. When it occurs it is generally profuse, and little under the control of niedicine. The intellect is seldom affected during the first stages of the complaint, but subsequently, in severe case.<, restlessness, delirium, and coma, seldom fail to succeed each other. Death is commonly due to exhaustion in the cases of pyajmial fever attended with extensive exhaustion ; but in other instances, it may be a direct result of the poisoned blood—a necra3raia. These symptoms are all peculiar, both in regard to the rapidity with which they make their ap- pearance, and also the sudden manner in which they occasionally disappear. Wlien this infection of the blood arises in surgical practice, the accet:- sion of these constitutional phenomena is often manifested from two to six days after surgical operations or injuries. When one of the large veins has been originally affected, the interval which elapses is comparatively short. In cases occurring after childbirth, it is usually longer, ex- tending to the end of the second week. After ■surgical operations or accidents involving some portion of bone, the access of the disease may be marked by a rigor during the third or fourth week. The local phenomena which precede and accom- pany the constitutional malady are sometimes very indicative of a septic change. A wound, for ex- ample, ceases to appear healthy ; the surrounding tissues become inflamed, the healthy secretions of pus and lymph cease—the part dries up, and this is succeeded by an iciiorous discharge. Sometimes the areolar tissue becomes boggy and (Edematous, or even emph3'sematous, from the development of gases arising out of a septic decomposition of the fluids. At this stage the decomposition, originat- ing at a local region, may infect the general mass of the blood and rapidly kill the patient, without the occurrence of any blood clotting ; or coagula may form in the vessels, disintearate, and decom- pose, and become conveyed to other parts. lu the last instance, the phenomena of thrombosis and embolism become superadded to the original sep- ticaemia. Treatment.—In the preceding pages the writer has endeavoured to indicate the true pathology of pytemia, and has shewn that many and essen- tially different processes have been included with- in this term. Phenomena which mai/ follow a plilebitis, properly so" called, may equally ensue where there has been no such infiammatorj- affec- tion. Those morbid conditions of the blood in which there is a tendencj' to the production of lesions of many and distant parts, with muhi|)le centres of inflammation, connnonly however take their origin from a coagulation of the blood at some definite point, or from the introduction of some septic or decomposing agent into the circu- lation. When we examine into the phenomena wlrch follow the injection of a purulent or decomposing organic substance into n vein, we perceive that these are capable of being arran^jcd into two different series;—1. Those mechanical changes