432 PARACENTESIS. benefit accrues ; if tlie viscera do not evidentl)' appeiir to be obatructed and unfit for the purposes of life ; if the complaints have not been brought on by along habitual train of intemperance, and from which there seems little hope of reclaiming the patient; if the strength and time of life are not altogether against us ; I desist from medicine, ex- cept of the cordial kind ; and let the disease proceed, till the operation becomes safely practi- cable. When this is done, by the moderate use of the warmer diuretics, chalybeates, and bitters, also the preparations of squills, in doses below that point at which the stomach would be affected, I endeavour to prevent the abdomen from filling again." {Med. Ohs.and Inq. vol. iv. p. 112.) De- sault used to tap dropsical patients once a week, and in many cases, after he had performed the ope- ration two or three times, the disease was stopped. However, with respect to early tapping in ascites one fact mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, in his lectures, ought to be known, namely, that dropsy arising from the debility caused by fever or a course of mercury, and not attended with diseased liver, spleen, or disorganisation of other important organs, may often be cured by medical treatment, without any operation at all; and he therefore disapproves of paracentesis in such cases, so long as the fluid is not sufficiently copious to hinder the risk of the bowels from being hurt by the trocar. When this risk ceases, however, the practice seems commendable, because it will rather promote than retard the good effect of any other means which may be deemed advisable. At the same time I ought to mention the opinion of the above distin- guTshed practitioner that the operation itself will never bring about a cure, except where the disease has proceeded from the debility left by some kind of fever, or other temporary cause of weakness. Since Fothergill's time the operation of para- centesis seems to Dr. Darwall not to have in- creased in reputation. His own experience is decidedly against it. He has frequently had patients tapced when the effusion was very incon- siderable, and had existed but a short time. Every care was also taken after the operation to prevent inflammation. In all these instances, however, the effusion rapidly recurred, and upon examina- tion of several after death, the bowels were found adhering by old depositions of coagulating lymph. Though he admits that a cure sometimes follows tapping, he believes that it often increases the tendencv to eftusion. He excepts the example of dropsy complicated by pregnancy, where he deems the discharge of the fluid advisable. After all, however, the great oppression of the breathing, the suffering from distention and the functional disturbance, frequently after a time render para- centesis absolutely necessary, whatever may be the conclusion respecting the practice of Fother- gill and Desault, The great number of times that the operation has been repeated in some individuals is surprising ; for instance, twenty-nine times (Schmucker, Wahr- nehmimgcn, b. ii. p. 102) ; forty-ono {Med. Com- munications, vol. ii.) ; fifty-two {Schmucker, vol. cit. p. 187) ; sixty-five {Mead) ; one hundred {CuUisen, Syst. Chir. Hodiemcc, vol. ii. p. 56) ; one hundred and fifty-five {Phil. Trans, vol. C9) ; and if it be possible to credit Bezard, even six hundred and sixty-five times upon one woman in the course of thirteen years. AVhen the patient died, the peritoneum was found to be three lines in thickness. The omentum, mesentery, and even the liver, gall-bladder, spleen, pancreas, kidne3-8, and bladder, had almost disappeared, a scirrhous mass containing pus occupying their place towards the right side. (See Bulletin de la Socielt Med. d'Emulation, No. xii. Dec. 1815.) Some of these cases were certainly ovarian dropsies. I have already noticed the practice inculcated by Fothergill of tapping in the early stage of ascites. This plan, I think, should never be adopted in acute cases, or those dependent upon increased effusion from inflammatory action. I find another advocate for the early performance of paracentesis in M. Dupasquier, who finds that the discharge of the fluid promotes the action of diuretics, which previously often have no effect ; and he laj's it down as a fact, that the action of diuretics is always in an inverse ratio to the quantity of fluid collected in the peritoneum, and the irritation of the gastro-intestinal organs. (See Journ. Chir, des Hospitauxde Lyon, yo\. i. p. 355, 8vo. 1830.) Experience has repeatedly proved, however, how frequently the function of the kidney cannot be re-established, though the fluid be discharged early ; nor when we reflect upon the visceral, renal, and other organic affections often conceirned as causes of ascites, how can any other expectation be enter- tained in a large number of cases ? The following is Mr. Listen's advice :—" It becomes necessary when medicines which promote the secretion, more especially from the kidneys, have failed to give re- lief, and when the distention is very great, causing interruption to the functions of the viscera, par- ticularly of the chest, and to great anasarcous swelling of the lower extremities, to draw off the fluid by surgical operation." {On Practical Sur- gery, p. 426.) Whenever a considerable quantity of fluid is suddenly let out of the abdomen by tapping, the quick removal of the pressure of the water off the large blood-vessels and viscera may produce swooning, convulsions, and even sudden death. These consequences led the ancients to consider paracentesis as a dangerous operation, and, when they ventured to perform it, they only let out the water gradually and at intervals. Dr. Mead, after considering what might occa- sion the bad symptoms resulting from too sudden an evacuation of a large quantity of fluid from the abdomen, was led to try whether external pressure would prevent such consequences. It was con- ceived that, in this way, the same degree of pres- sure which the fluid made on the viscera might be kept up. The success attending this plan fully justi- fied the opinion Dr. Mead had entertained; for when the compression was carefully made, the whole of the water contained in the abdomen of a dropsical patient miMit be safely discharged. For this purpose, how- ever, the whole abdomen must be equally com- pressed, and the pressure maintained as tiie evacua- tion is taking place. While the water is flowing out, the pressure is usually made with a sheet or round towel, which is put round the abdomen. 1 wo as- sistants who hold the ends of the sheet or towel gra- dually tighten it in proportion as the 'y^; charged. But in the present day all necessity for such compression is avoided by tapp.ng patients the recumbent position. Immediately a ter the operation some folded flannel sprmkled w.tli spin of wiue, is laid over the whole anterior part of