be seen in the joint. As tlie disease advances the redundant fluid is absorbed ; and the capsular membranes of the joints acquire a preternatural densitj-. That in the hip-joint is sometimes one and a quarter inches thick, and not a vestige of the round ligament will be seen; nor of the long tendon of the biceps or glenoid ligament in the shoulder-joint; and all the articulations, great or small, which have been long affected, are usually divested of their cartilages of incrustation. The inter-articular iibro-cartilages are also, with very few exceptions, absorbed when the disease has existed long in any joint normally possessing them. This Dr. Adams has proved in the lower jaw, the sterno-clavicular joints, and also in the ■wrist. This observation also applies to the knee- joint; in every well marked case of this disease he has observed absorption of the semi-lunar cartilages, as completely as of the cartilages of incrustation of the heads of the bones. The fibrous brim of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and of the cup of the acetabulum, are altogether removed by the dis- ease. The lateral ligaments of the ginglymoid joints are elongated, from the primary distention of the capsules byelFusion; and this accounts for a certain degree of abnormal motion afterwards sometimes present. This mobility is not always observed in advanced cases, because of the semi-flexed state of the limbs and spastic condition of the muscles. In the smaller ginglymoid joints, however, the liga- ments become so lax as to permit of partial or even complete dislocation. The capsular ligament of the arthrodial and enarthrodial joints are also very slow to recover the efi'ects of the over distension they, too, had undergone in the early periods of this disease; and these capsules, thus elongated and re- laxed, also admit of dislocations of the bones. These observations. Dr. Adams further remarks, relative to the displacements of the bones he has noticed to occur as the result of chronic rheumatic arthritis of long standing, do justice to the sagacity of the following observation of Haygarth : " As the disease increases, the joint beconies distorted, and probably, in bad inveterate cases, dislocated." Dr. Adams describes the presence of loose bodies, which, he says, are generally to be found in the joints of patients who have suffered for a long time, and severely, under this disease. He describes one instance in which no fewer than forty-five of these were found in the elbow-joint; Haller observed twenty in the lower jaw; and Morgagni twenty-five in the knee-joint. We would refer the reader to a previous consideration of this subject under the head of loose cartilages. When the disease has been of long standing, the removed cartilage is replaced by an ivory-like enamel,^ remarkahle for its fine polish and hard- ness, "In the first class joints, such as those of the hip and shoulder, the surface of the head of me temur or humerus becomes, in whole or part, as smooth as an ivory ball. In the ginglymoid the removed cartilage is supplied by mlans of by parallel grooves hollowed out in the direction of the rriovements of flexion and extension. ihe denuded bnny surfaces, left by the absorn- t:on of the cartilages, become p.nrtially worn away by friction and attrition, and a smooth enamel is formed by the mutual action of the bones on each JOINTS, DISEASES OF. 131 other. " Around the articular surfaces thus acted upon, bony vegetations arise. The heads of the bones, thus enlarged, and sometimes flattened, get the appearance as if they had been crushed down. The necks of the humerus and femur become gradually shorter, from a species of interstitial absorption they undergo ; and under such circum- stances we can easily imagine that any one not familiar with these anatomical characters of this peculiar disease, might be led to infer, when they met with them, that they had before them speci- mens of fractures of the anatomical neck of the humerus, or even of an intra-capsular fracture of the cervix of the femur which had been united by bone." Dr. Adams also points out, that as the heads of the bones are greatly enlarged by this disease, the cavities for their reception are found to be proportionably expanded. In many cases, these sockets are rendered much deeper than natural, and in trthers they are found shallower and other- wise deformed. It appears, moreover, that the peculiar irritation of the disease is not confined merely to the wearing away of the cartilage, or the enlargement of the articular/ienf/s of the bones; but that, in some cases, the shcifts and centres of the bones themselves become hypertrophied. (See Br. Adams's Treatise, p. 25 to 40.) Mr. Barwell believes that the morbid action in this disease begins in the bones—that it is in reality a rheumatic osteitis. Mr. William Adams observes that the cartilage seems to take the first step in the morbid process, becoming greatly hypertrophied, and afterwards ossifying. A good.description of the ultimate structure of this disease is given by Mr. Barwell, and also by Mr. William Adams, but for which we must refer the reader to their separate works; and also to Mr. Pnget's and Mr. Canton's writings for further information upon this subject. We shall now make a few observations upon this disease, as it occurs in the various articulations. In the hip, the symptoms generally partake somewhat of the ordinary characters of rheuma- tism ; there is some pain and stiffness about the joint, increased at night, especially in damp or cold weather ; as the disease advances the pain is increased by walking or standing, and the move- ments of the joints gradually become impaired. There is much difficulty in bending the body forwards from the hips; the patient therefore cannot stoop or sit comfortably, and is obliged to keep the limb straightened in nearly a direct line with the trunk. All these symptoms increase • and as the changes already described take place' in the head of the bone, shortening of the limb occurs to the extent of an inch or more. The pelvis also becomes oblique, and the shortening looks greater than it is. The knee and foot are everted, the heel raised, the hip is flattened pos- teriorly, the folds of the nates disappear ■ but the trochanter projects, and seems to be larger and thicker than natural. Rotation of the limb is extremely limited, and crackling or osseous crepi- tation will be felt around the joint. Dr. R. W. Smith observes that the lumbar vertebra; acquire great mobility ; the thigh on the afl'ected side is wasted, but the calf retains its natural size and firmness. In the shoulder the symptoms are very similar to those in the hip; stiffness and crackling felt by the patient; at first effusion, and after its absorption the shoulder seems wasted K.2