(ESOPHAGUS. 368 treatment of stricture of the iiretlu-a, have been liere brought into use. Trousseau uses occasionally a catheter, to the extremity of which he daily adds a thin layer of wax, thus gradually increasing its size. Gradual dilatation is accomplished by the pas- sage of an instrument every second, third, or fourth day, at first; the size of the bougie employed being each time slightly enlarged, and the repetition of the operation being regulated by the effects pro- duced. The instrument should not be passed a second time till the irritation of the first introduc- tion has passed off, and wheu being passed it should be done quickly and by a twisting motion, and only retained for a very short time, so as to avoid all danger of lighting up inflammatory action, and so augmenting the disease by causing further deposit and thickening. It is, however, proper to observe that some surgeons of repute prefer having the bougie within the grasp of the stricture so long as it can be borne, or even passing Switzer's in- strument and leaving it eii permanence. This instrument consists of a short ivory tube, which is introduced by means of a whalebone rod within the stricture and there left, the conducting-rod being withdrawn. A strong thread connected with the ivory tube enables the surgeon to remove it when he wishes to substitute a tube of larger size. The irritation and annoytince caused by these in- struments appears, however, to be very great; and as even positive evil in the aggravation of the malady results, this mode of treatment is justly all but abandoned. In those cases in which sacs exist in the oeso- phagus above the site of the stricture, much patience and address is required to introduce an instrument through the constricted portion ; and in no instance of the kind should any force be applied, but the whole manoeuvre should be conducted with the greatest gentleness. In the treatment of stricture by dilatation, the surgeon may be well content if he obtains such a diameter of the canal as will allow of the food passing with comparative ease into the stomach; and this calibre he should endeavour to retain, by the passage of a suitable instrument at intervals, till all fear of a relapse has passed. Caustic is but little employed in the present day in the treatment of oesophageal stricture. It does not appear to have any advantage attending it, while much evil has been attributed to its em- ployment. Scarification, too, has in a great measure been abandoned. Alphonse Gu^rin, however, has more recently recommended internal incision, as eitiployed in stricture of the urethra, in preference to other methods of treating the similar affections of the (Esophagus. In idl cases the general health must be attended to, and appropriate remedies used to correct any error therein. Iodine .and mercury are still believed in by some to promote the absorption of the abnormal tissue at the seat of stricture. The food must be of the nuist nutritious kind, and given in a finelj-- divided form. It may be necessary to feed tiie patient by a tube introduced tlirougii the stricture; and if this cause too nnich irritation, or become impossible, then we nuist omphiy enemata or strong sonp-baths, to obtain some respite to the inevitable doom. The hunger can in general be relieved with much greater case than the thirst, which in such cases is inloleralile. 1' all tlio nu ans we can devise for the support of the system fail, and death is plainly inevitable, it becomes a just consideration whether gastrotomy, or the opening of the stomach through the abdo- minal walls, should not be performed. (Esophagotomy too may be taken into account, as, if the position and extent of the stricture permit of it, a way may thus be got for the introduction of food into the stomach. In such cases the oesophagus has been opened above, through, and beneath the seat of stricture. Taranget and Monod opened it below, Watson at, and Lavacherie above the constricted point. In opening the canal below the stricture, the temporary advantage of supplying food is attained; but in cutting into the stricture, or open- ing the tube above it, the surgeon may employ direct means of curing the disease itself. It is apparent that such an operation would only be contemplated in cases of stricture where there was no suspicion of malignant disease, and that while the exact seat and extent of the constriction would require to be carefully defined beforehand, the age and con titution of the patient should enter into our calculations. Gastrotomy, again, could only be undertaken when we had reason to believe that the stomach was sound. If violent and constant pain was suf- fered in that organ,—if there was frequent vomit- ing after food, or other symptoms of the implication of the stomach in the injury or disease which caused the stricture, then no good but manifest ' harm would be done by attempting an operation, which in appropriate cases may be of great benefit, but which if undertaken in ill-selected cases can only sink into unmerited disrepute. This operation has as yet been in general confined to cases of malignant stricture, where, even if successful, it can only be of very temporary benefit, and thus its merits have not been fairly tested. When malignant disease is the cause of the stricture, we can do little to prolong life. Opiates to allay pain, and as nourishing food as can be introduced, by the mouth or rectum, comprise nearly all our resources.] OSSOFHAGUS, CaTHETERISM OF THE. [Instruments may have to be passed along the canal in a variety of circumstances. It may be to explore the canal ; to introduce food into the stomach ; or to remove poisons from that cavity. It may be performed by the mouth or nostril, but the former is not only much more easy than the latter, but also much more safe; as rupture of the o3sophagus has been many times caused in cases in which, from volun- tary effort on the part of the patient (as in the case of lunatics), or from disease, the mouth could not be opened. Some surgeons prefer introducing the tube through the nostril, when it is to be left in place; and thisBo3'er managed by first passing it by the mouth, and then, by means of Belloc's canula, bringing one end out by the nostril. The ordinary ffisophagus sound is an elastic tube, long enough to reach from the mouth to the stomach,, and of a size to fill, without distending, the canal. When about to be passed, the patient's head -hould be well thrown back (so as to render the irted on assace as straight as possible), and supi-orted on J,e breast of an assistant. The left forefinger is then introduced into the mouth, and the tongue by it depressed and drawn ^oy^^■tyrAs, while the point of the instrument (well-oiled) is quickly