in.?, &c. Irritation of stomach and secretion of acrid gastric juice may be produced by piles, according to Dr. Chapman, of Pliiladelphia, and Whytt (quoted by Brnwn-Se'quard in Lectures on the Central Nervous Si/stem, Pliiladelpiiia, 1860). Irritation of one eye may produce disease of the opposite organ, which can only be checked by removd of that one first affected. Abundant evidence of this is given in Haynes Wal- ton's Ophthalmic Surgei-y, '2nd edition ; although the ophthalmoscope has shown that the cases of blind- ness following blows on the forehead, which used to be attributed to injury of branches of the fifth nerve, are really for tlie most part due to a partici- pation of the eye in the original injury. The lachrymation and redness which affect both eyes when only one is irritated is a familiar example. Orchitis may arise from irritation of the ureters. The ulceration of the duodenum which follows severe burns is ascribed by Brown-S^quard to re flex nervous action. There are three causes, says Brown-Se'quard, to which this infJammafion of the viscera after burns has been ascribed—altera- tions in the blood by the heat, diminution of the functions of the skin, and reflex nervous action. That the last is the true cause, has been found, he says, by experiment. Dogs whcse legs were scalded with boiling water, and whose spinal cord was divided at the level of the third or fourth lumbar vertebra, so as to cut offall nervous irritation, presented no trace of visceral congestion: on the other hand, if the division of the cord were made so high as the third dorsal vertebra all the abdominal viscera were fnund in a state of con- gestion with serous infiltration and ecchj'mosis after the same injury. The paralysis and blind- ness which follow diphtheria have'boen explained on the same principle. Moreover, there is an in- creasing disposition with pathologists to refer herpes and some other forms of akin disease to nervous irritation. " There are two modes of action of the nervous system upon the production of the phenomena of nutrition and secretion. By one of these actions the nervous system determines an increase in the attraction of blood of the living tissues, and in this case the phenomena are accompanied by a dila- tation of the blood-vessels, while the reverse exists when the nervous system, instead of acting on the parenchyma of the tissues, acts upon the walls of the blood-vessels, and produces a con- traction. In the first case, the quantity of blood passing through the part on which the nervous system has acted, is increased, while in the second case It is diminished : in the first case the secre- tions are increased, in the second diminished ; in the first case nutrition is more active, and there is a tendency to hypertrophy and an augmentation Of the_ vital properties of nerves and muscles; Jast y, m the first case there is an augmentation 01 the temperature, while in the second there is a aimiMution." {Urown-Scquard, Op. cit. p. 172.) •L-rown-Se'quard concludes, that mere absence of nervous influence has little effect on nutrition, so- eretion, and repair ; that most of the alleged 1 i-consequences arc indirect—i.e., atrophy of mus- cles arises from rest ; ulceration from friction ; cnanges of secretion, from paralytic dilatation of vesse 8, &c. : but that if absolute disease be in- «uceil. It is through reflected irritation. in us It has been proved that the blood-vessels' 85 INFLAMMATION. may close spasmodically, so as to cut off the nu- trient supply ; and it is to this influence that Brown-Seqiiard ascribes the gangrene which occurs so readily in paralysed parts. There is, moreover, now plenty of evidence of the influence of an irritated or injured nerve in producing inflammation of the parts to which it is distributed. Such effects " do not belong to cases of complete destruction of the nerves. They occur in patients who have received slight or severe nerve wounds, provided always that these latter do not separate the part entirely from its nerve centres." {Gunshot Wounds, and other Injuries of Nerves, by 5. Weir Mitchell, M.D., George R. nfoorhouse, M.D., and William W. Keen, M.D, Philadelphia, 1834, p. 19t.) Such effects include the "glossy skin " described by Mr. Paget as a conse- quence of nerve injury {Med. Times and Gaz. Mar. 26,1864), eczema, neuralgic pains, and painful swelling and inflammation of the synovial mem- branes of joints. Mr. Stanley (Med. Chir. Tran. vol.xxiv.) and Dr. Benjamin Ball have also called attention to inflammation of joints as a conse- quence of disease of the spinal cord, especially the locomotor atao'y. {Med. Times and Gazette, 1869, vol. ii.) To sum up, then, what we have said on this point :—1. Absence of innervation seems to have no effect on nutrition ; wounds, &c., will heal in paralysed parts as well as in others. 2. Many ill consequences of division of narves are accidental and indirect, and due to the injuries which in- sensible or paralysed parts are liable to. 3. Some ill effects are due to rapid circulation and ab- sorption. 4. Some to a reflex irritation of those nerves, which cause preternatual afflux of blood. 5. Sume to reflex irritation of those nerves, which constringe the blood-vessels and cut off the supply of blood. 6. Some to a direct irritation propagated from a diseased nervous centre, or from nerve trunk injured, but not divided. 3. The state of the blood as a cause of inflam- mation may be discussed under three heads : a, variation in quantity, b, in the proportions of its normal constituents; and c, the presence within It of poisonous matters, whether generated within or introduced from without. a. Increased quantity of blood or plethora is a very common condition, and it no doubt predis- poses to inflammation. The best examples of it are seen in stall-fed animals, fattening for tha knife. In these animals, plethora combmed with obesity, produces fatty degeneration of the heart and voluntary muscles, and torpor of the brain- but the leading disease to which they are subject,' 18 hffimorrhage into the brain, spleen, or kidney Men and women who are great eaters, and have good digestive powers, become bloated and fat with their superficial veins turgid with blood; but yet they may go on for many years without any inflammation. Their tendencies arc rather to con- gestion of the lungs, hydrotliorax, heart-disease, and apople.xy. They may live long and indulge' in the pleasures of the table, if their excretorv organs be active. Yet under certain circumstances their blood easily breaks dnivn, and becomes poi- soned. There is a numerous class of patients who have plethora v/ithout fat—spare persims of nerv- ous temperament; women excessively thin who menstruate violently, and young scrofulous or rickety children whose skin is pale, though their D 2