LITHOTOMY. Cheselden's time all operators, with, perhaps, the exception of Mr. Skey, are agreed that the bulbous portion of the urethra should not be divided. Mr. Skey thinks (1. c., p. 547) "that the bulb is always more or less divided;" that it is an unimportant structure, and may be cut with impunity. Yet the experience obtained in the Parisian hospitals shows that division of the bulb is one of the most frequent causes of phlebitis and the purulent infec- tion consequent thereon.] The best point of the urethra to open ia, per- haps, as close to the anterior part of the prostate as possible. This was Mr. Listen's opinion, who says, that the knife should divide " a very small portion, not more than two lines, of the urethra anterior to the apex of the prostate." Mr. Allan directs us to enter the membranous portion about half an inch in front of the prostate; while Des- ciiamps made his opening in such a manner as to divide eight or ten lines of the membranous canal [Some writers on this subject seem to over-esti- mate the length of the membranous part of the urethra, being probably misled by the appearance which the parts present when dissected and sepa- rated from their surrounding connexions. In fact, the available length of this portion of the canal for surgical purposes is exceedingly limited, from the way in which the bulb overlaps and conceals its under surface ; consequently, unless the knife be made to enter the urethra close in front of the prostate, the bulb must almost of necessity be wounded. Mr, Smith, of Leeds, uses a beaked scalpel for the incision of the prostate gland. Having opened the urethra and introduced the beaked knife into the groove of the staiF, he stands up, takes the handle of the staff in his left hand, and depresses it while he passes the knife onwards into the bladder. _ I3y depressing the instrument, he ob- serves, with the beak of the scalpel pressing into the groove at an obtuse angle, it is then a flmiglu staff, the curve is all in the bladder, and you have to go on in a straight line. Great part of the instrument being within the bladder, it lifts it up from the rectum, and there will be no risk of wounding it. {Med. Jour)!., Jan. 1859.) Mr. Smith's operation, therefore, re- sembles that of Mr. Aston Key, in respect of his taking the staff in his left hand and using only the slra'ujU portion on which to make his inci- sion. ^ Mr. Smith, however, strongly condemns Mr. Key's operation, which it appears to us he is scarcely justified in doing, seeing that his own resembles it in two such very essential par- ticulars. He states that four of the surgeons of the Leeds Infirmary have been in the habit of using Mr. Key's knife and staff. It will be seen from tlie authorities which liavc been referred to in this article, that some, probably the majority, following Mr. Listen, prefer that the staff should be held steadily and firmly by the assis- tant throughout the operation ; while others, as Mr Skey and Mr Smith, of Leeds, prefer to take the staff m their left hand, while they make the deep incision into the bladder. The point is one which every surgeon should settle for himself by exneri ments upon the dead body. Without doubt a greater feeling of security and confidence is ob- anicd when the operator has both instruments in lis own hands ; in our opinion, however, when the usual curved staff is employed, and especially 223 if the same knife is used throughout, it is safer that the assistant should retain the charge of the stafty.in order that the surgeon may have his left forefinger free to accompany the knife in the deep incision, the better to protect the rectum from injury, and to avoid the risk of the knife slipping out of the groove of the staff. On the other hand, with the straight staff, both these risks are dimi- nished, and be may safely avail himself of the advantage of having both instruments in his own hands.] Many of the points now briefly noticed are likewise discussed by Mr. Cooper in the following passages :— A few General Remarlts on (lie besL mode of mahing the Incision in tJie Laiercd Operation.— Perhaps of all the great operations in surgery, lithotomy is that in which great awkwardness, mortifying failures, and dangerous blunders, are most frequently observed. Many a surgeon who contrives to cut off limbs, extirpate large tumors, and even tie aneurismal arteries, with dclat, can- not get through the business of taking a stone out of the bladder in a safe, much less a masterlj', style. ^ This fact is so familiarly known in the profession, and its truth so often exemplified, that I may well be excused the unpleasant task of relating, in proof of it, all the disasters which have fallen under my own notice. But, I must take the liberty of remarking that, in this branch of surgery, a great number of individuals do not profit by these instructive lessons of experience. The more they see of lithotomy, the more they are convinced of its dangers;" yet, too often, instead of studying the causes of ill success, they merely derive, from the examples before them, a suspicion of the unskilfulness of the operator, or some discouraging conjectures about the difficulties of the operation. The establishment of certain principles to be observed in lithotomj', appears the most probable way of diminishing the frequency of the accidents and failures of this common operation.. Aftei* the very opposite principles, and different methods of cutting for the stone, which are explained in the preceding columns as preferred by different surgeons, I think it may be useful to offer a few general observations on the proper direction and size of the incision. These points, which are of the highest practical consequence in regulating the principles to be observed in lithotomy, are far from being settled, as must be plain to every- body who recollects that Cheselden, Desault, John Bell, Klein, Martineau, Langenbeck, &c.' recommend a free opening; Scarpa, Callisen, and others, a small one; or, as Scarpa objects strongly to my calling his incision small, I will say one extending from the apex of the prostate gland to the orifice of the bladder, no part of which is divided; that Mr. Abern(?thy and Scarpa employ gorgets, which cut upwards and outwards," at angles of 45° and C9° from the axis of the urethraj and that the gorgets of Cruickshank, B. Bell, Desault, Mr. Clino, and most other surgeons, are in- tended to cut either directly outwards, or outwards and downwards. The incisiiin through the whole of the parts cut in lithotomy should always be made in a straight, regular, direct inannor, from the surface of the skin in the porinoitni to' the termination of the wound in the urethra and bladder, In an