134 JOINTS, DISEASES OF. cancelli by granulations from tlieir lining membrane, the gradual tliinning of their walls, and enlarge- ment of their cavities, with just that sort of gene- ration of bone which we find in a not very far ad- vanced degree of caries." There is no proof, Mr. Barwell goes on to observe, that the material which he found stuffing the cancellous cavities was tubercle. (See Barwell, Dis. ofthe Joints, p. 22».) Mr. P. C. Price, in his work on Excision of ilic Knee refuses to discuss the tuberculous or non- tuberculous nature of the deposit in spongy bone; but he assumes a peculiar nature for the deposit, "under the character of a morbid material, which partakes more or less of the nature of struma, as developed in other localities of the body."] In white swelling, as the name of the disease implies, the skin is not at all altered in colour. According to Mr. Lloyd, the first decided symptom of disease in the articulating extremity of a bone is an occasional deep-seated, dull, heavy pain, unat- tended by swelling, and not increased by motion ; and if it be the hip, knee, or ankle which is affected, the patient keeps the knee rather bent, and never fully extends it in progression. {On Sorofnla, p. 138.) In some instances the swelling yields in a certain degree to pressure ; but it never pits, and is almost always sufficiently firm to make an uninformed examiner believe that the bones contribute to the tumour. It is remarked by Sir B. Brodie, that while the disease is going on ui the cancellous structure of the bones, before its effects have extended to the other textures, and while there is still no evident swelling, the patient experiences some degree of pain, which, however, is never very severe, and often is so slight that it is scarcely noticed. After a time, varying from a few weeks to several months, the external parts begin to swell, and serum and coagulated lymph to be effused m the cellular membrane, so as to form a puffy elastic swelling. (Faih. Ohs. p. 197, ed. 3.) In the majo- rity of scrofulous white swellings of the knee, let the pain be trivial or more severe, it is particularly situated in one part of the joint, viz. either the centre of the articulation, or the head of the tibia. Sometimes the pain continues without in- terruption; sometimes there are intermissions ; and in other instances the pain recurs at regular times, so as to have been called by. some writers peri- odical Almost all authors describe the patient as suffering more uneasiness in the diseased part when he is warm, and particularly when he is in this condition in bed. n- • In the early stage of the disease, the swelling is mostly very inconsiderable, or there is even no visible enlargement whatever, excepting perhaps alter ex- ercise. In the little depressions naturally situated on each side of the patella, a fulness generally first shows itself, and gradually spreads a 1 over the affected joint. According to Mr. Lloyd, however, 'vhen the soft parts on the outside oi t^lie kne - joint permanently swell, the swelling often com- inences on each side, just behind the co«dy cs so that the joint appears wider; and he Bays t at l e has often seen the enlargement <=7'"'-'" , J' ' ^' swelling of a gland immediately above the inntr conJyle^ He'observes that there is no part of the johit where the swelling may not begin. {Op. ut. ^' The'Vtient, unable to bear the weight of his body on the dis(uxk-r( d joint, in conseciutnce ot the great increase of pain thus created, gets into the habit of only touching the ground with his toes, and the knee, being generally kept a little bent in this manner, soon loses the capacity of being com- pletely extended again. When the disease has lasted a good while, the knee is almost always found in a permanent state of flexion. In scrofulous cases the pain constantly precedes any appearance of swelling; but the interval between the two symp- toms differs very much in different subjects. The morbid joint in the course of time acquires a vast magnitude. Still the integuments retain their natural colour and remain unaffected. The enlargement, however, always seems greater than it really is, in consequence of the emaciation of the limb, both above and below the disease. An appearance of blue distended veins, and a shining smoothness, are the only alterations to be noticed in the skin covering the enlarged joint. The shining smoothness seems attributable to the distension,'which obliterates the natural furrows and wrinkles of the cutis. When the joint is thus swollen, the integuments cannot be pinched up into a fold, as they could in the state of health, and even in the beginning of the disease. As the disease advances the cartilages ulcerate, and collections of matter form around the part, and at length burst. Tlieir progress, as Sir Benjamin Brodie lias stated, is slow, and when they burst or are opened they discharge a thin pus, with portions of a curd-like substance floating in it. The dis- charge afterwards becomes less copious and thicker. (Path. Obs. p. 199, ed. 3.) The ulcerated open- ings sometimes heal up ; but such abscesses are generally followed by other collections, which pur- iue the same course. In some cases these abscesses form a few months after the first aftection of the ioint- on other occasions several years elapse, and no suppuration of this kind makes its appearance. They sometimes communicate with the cavity of the diseased joint, or lead down to diseased bone, portions of which occasionally exfoliate. In the generality of cases several abscesses take place in succession, some healing up, and others ending m sinuses. . * a:„ u As the cartilages continue to ulcerate, bir a. Brodie has observed that the pain becomes aggra- vated, though not in a very great degree ; and he says that it is not severe until an abscess has formed, and the parts over it are distended and inflamed. ., , The local mischief must necessarily produce more or less constitutional disturbance. The pa- tient's health becomes gradually impaired; he loses his appetite and natural rest and sleep ; his pulse is small and frequent; an obstinate and debilitating diarrhffia, and profuse nocturnal sweats, ensue. Tiiese complaints are, sooner or later, followed by dissolution, unless the constitution be relieved m time, either by the amendment or removal of the diseased part. In different patients, however, the cause of the disease and its elfects upon the system vai-y considerably, in relation to the rapidity with which they occur. „ .■ a .i,;„i.- Rheumatic arthritis, or inflammations and iIi ck- enings of the synovial membrane from or other causes are very distinct diseases from the seiolu- r di^tenijer^of the large joints. I"''- - the pain is said never to occur without being atte ded with swelling. Scrofiilous white swelling , on he other hand, are ahvays preceded a pau , 1,^^^^ is particularly confined to one part of the articula-