PERNIO. 446 1826. Reynaud, Arch. Gdn. de M^d. t. xxvi. 1831. Brodie, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. 1832. Sanson, Diet, de M6d. et de Chir. Prat. t. xii. 1834. [Maison- neuve, Le Pdrioste et ses Maladies. Thfese. Paris, 1839. Nelaton, El(<mens de Path. Chir. t. i. 1844. Graves, Chinical Lectures, vol. i. 1848. Stanley, Treatise on Diseases of Bones, 1849. Rokitanshy, Path. Anat. vol. iii. Svd. Soc. 1850. Cliassalgnac, De I'Ost^omydlite, Gaz.' Mdd. 1854 ; also, Des Abscfes sous-periostiques aigues. M6m. de la Soc. de Chir. de Paris, t. iv. Gerdy, Mai. des Organes du Mouvement, 1855. Costello, Cyclopedia ot Practical Surgery, vol. iii. 1861. JPa(A. Tm«*. vol xiii. 1862. Holmes, System of Surgery, vol. in. 1862.] PERNIO. (From we'pm or irrepva, the heel.) A chilblain, especially one on the heel. (See Chilblain.) ' n m, • PESSARY. (From xeo-o-o), to soften.) The in- tention of pessaries, among the old practitioners, was to keep medicinal substances applied withm the pudenda. They are now never made use of except for preventing a prolapsus of the uterus or vagina, or for keeping up a vaginal hernia. (See Hernia.) . , r M. Jules Cloquet gives the particulars of a case, in which a pessary was met with in the body of an old woman, the broad lower end of which had perforated the rectum, while the upper narrower one had produced ulceration of the vesico-vaguial septum, and entered the bladder. Three-fourths of the interior of its wider part were filled with a white crystallised concretion, strongly adherent to it, with brownish stercoraceous matter between the large crystallisations. The upper narrower end was incrusted with a concretion, of irregular shape but smooth surface and yellowish colour, com- posed of uric acid. (See Jules Cloquet, in Fatliol. Chir. p. 100, 4to. Paris, 1831.) [The employment of pessaries with the original design has lately been revived. Substances, chiefly sedative or astringent—such as morphia, atropia, sulphate of copper, and tannin—are mixed with some fatty material, and formed into ovoid or conical pessaries. These, when introduced into the vagina or cervix uteri, melt slowly, and the se- dative or astringent ingredient, coming into con- tact with the mucous membrane, exerts its proper action. Professor Simpson at first used yellow wax and lard as the medium. (See Edinburgh Medical Journal, 1848.) But these did not answer well. More recently the preference has been given to cocoanut-oil or butter. According to Dr. Tanner, Mr. White Cooper introduced this substance as a basis for ophthalmic ointments. Dr. Tanner adapted it to uterine medi- cated pessaries. (See Obstetrical Transactions, vol. iv. 1863.) It is free from offensive smell, and it too hard' may be softened by adding olive-oil or glycerine. The use of the word " pessary " ought, perhaps, to be restricted to applications of the kind just de- scribed. By far the most prevalent use, however, is to designate a class of instruments intended to give mechanical support to the uterus and vagina when these organs are suffering from prolapsus. For this use the word hysterophore (from varipa, womb, and (popiw, I bear) has been proposed by Sohneemann and Roser. But pessaries may be usefully employed for yet other purposes. Pessaries, modified in form according to the particidar application, may be classed as follows : 1. Medicated, already described.—2. Hystero- phores, to support the prolapsed uterus and vagina, —3. Intra-uterine pessaries, used to correct flexions of the uterus, and to stimulate the uterus and ovaries to exercise their functions.—4. Various pessaries acting as levers, designed to correct anteversion or retroversion of the uterus.—5. Vaginal pessaries or " rests," designed to prevent contact of inflamed walls of the vagina, or to give support and rest to the inflamed and enlarged uterus. The second order of pessaries, or hysterophores proper, present an infinite variety in material, form, and construction. The most simple form, and one long used, was a piece of sponge, not often effec- tive, and always objectionable from its becoming foul. Boxwood, ivory, cork, and metals have been worked into every imaginable shape. Hair or cloth have been moulded into the desired shape, and covered with varnishes more or less impermea- ble. These were apt to lose shape and to become foul. Solutions of caoutchouc answer best. As to the form to be selected, although this must de- pend upon the peculiarities of the case, yet it may be affirmed, generally, that solid balls or spheres, and most circular or elliptic or^ figure of 8 rings ought to be discarded. To guide us in the appreciation of the use of pessaries, it is necessary to have a clear idea of the mechanical fault that has to be corrected, and of the mode in which pessaries act. The causes and nature of prolapsus will be particularly described under the article " Uterus." It is only necessary here to point out that the uterus is attached by the anterior surface of its cervix to the base of the bladder, whilst about the same level it receives on either side the utero-sacral ligaments covered by folds of peritoneum from behind. This point forms the centre of inovement of the organ. The fundus is free, and it can incline backwards or forwards; and the whole organ moves downwards under the pressure of the superincumbent viscera during inspiration, and rises on expiration under the in- fluence of atmospheric pressure. Whatever forces the base of the bladder downwards must cause the uterus to descend with it. One of the most effi- cient supports of the bladder and uterus is the tonic contractility of the vagina; and without this, the adjuvant action of atmospheric pressure is lost. Almost invariably, an antecedent condition of pro- lapsus uteri is relaxation of the anterior wall ot the vagina. On straining, as in defecation, the anterior wall of the vagina first comes down; the base of the bladder, and with it the os uten, next appear. The os uteri, in its descent, revolves roimd the symphysis as a centre; the cervix, being fixed to the bladder, comes down, maintaining its relative position to the bladder; the fundus, being free, rolls back, so that, in proportion to the extent ot the prolapsus, there is retroversion of the uterus; ana this position is then maintained and aggravated by the weight of the intestines pressing directly upon the anterior or (as it has now become) the upper surface of the uterus. If the prol.apsus be com- plete, then the mass, having cleared tl.e floor ot the pelvis, which curves forwards '^"f «P \ards. may alter its direction, and the os^il tmn more downwards. Now, a properly construe d pes«iry must be adapted to preserve or restore tne natuial form and conditions of the <«-fif"«- , a^t.