492 PU darkness, the blindness, ns in the examples men- tioned above, is not owing to the closure of the pupil, or to the cataract, but to other morbid changes, resulting from the same inflammation, which caused the defect in the pupil itself, and capable of being ascertained by peculiar appear- ances in the eye. Passing over obstructions of the pupil by the iinabsorbed matter of hypopiuio, and by the continuance of effused blood in the chambers of the eye, I come to the case next noticed by Beer, in which a closure of the pupil arises from a partial adhesion of the iris to the cornea {spiecJiia anterior), and will inevitablj' happen, when a considerable portion of the iris, or a great part, or the whole, of its pupillary edge protrudes through an opening in the cornea, and becomes adherent to it. However, sometimes, in these cases, the pupil^ becomes completely obstructed, though the protrusion of the iris is inconsiderable, and its pupillary edge not engaged in the cicatrix, a circumstance exemplified, when the cicatrix over the adherent part of the iris expands very much, and has an extensive leucoraatous surface, so that, though the pupil may be of considerable size, it is concealed, and vision impeded. And, even when there is no adhesion of the iris to the cornea, no synechia anterior, as it is termed, and no distor- tion of the pupil, a large dense cicatrix of the cornea may obstruct vision b}' lying exactly over that aperture. Lastly, as Beer has explained, the greater part of the cornea may be in an opaque, spoiled condition, so that the healthy iris can be discerned only at certain points behind its circum- ference, no vestige of the pupil itself being dis- tinguishable ; and such concealment of this opening may be either combined, or not, with a partial adhesion of the iris to the cornea. In such cases the patient can frequently perceive the light very well. {Beer, b. ii. p. 194, 195.) From what has been stated, it is manifest to Beer, that, in many cases of atresia iridis, the prognosis must be highly unfavourable, and that no attempt to form an artificial pupil should ever be made, when the patient's blindness proceeds from other causes besides the imperforate state of the iris. Such an operation. Beer observes, can only be proper when the blindness is entirely owing to the closed, or concealed state of the pupil ; when the different degrees of light can be plainly distinguished ; when the case is un- complicated with any disease of other important textures of the eye, capable of rendering the manual proceedings difficult, or impracticable ; when the eye has been for a long time perfectly free from inflammation ; is healthy. {Beer, b. ii. p. 196.) When vision is totally lost in one eye, and materially impaired in the other, Mr. Guthrie judiciously observes, that the question, whether an operation ought to be performed or not, is important ; for, if the patient still enjoys sufficient power of vision to guide himself, the surgeon must be more than hardy who would put that portion of the faculty of sight in jeopardy by attempting an operation: which jnay fail, how- ever skilfully done. Yet, Mr. Guthrie does not absolutely denounce the operation : he adds, " In such circumstances the operation should not be atternpted upon any grounds, unless the case is so simple as to require only an opening in the cornea, and the removal of a portion of the iris, for the purpose of enlarging the natural pupil. If the patient cannot see sufficiently well to guide himself, the conditions are very essentially altered, since an unsuccessful operation involves the loss of very little, whereas much is to be gained by the successful issue of it. Where opacities in the centre of the cornea occasion the impediment to vision, it is prudent to dilate the pupil bej'ond the edgj of the opacity by the daily applica- tion of belladonna, which may possibly enlarge the sphere of vision so as to supersede, in a doubtful or dangerous case, the necessity of an operation." (See Operative Surgerv of the Eye, p. 444.) Beer represents the event of the operation as being very uncertain, when the patient cannot plainly discern the various degrees of light ; when the cornea is affected with leucoma, or scarred and spoiled nearly to its very circum- ference ; when there is only a partial staphyloma of it ; or the constitution is unhealthy, or im- paired by the effects of former attacks of scrofula, syphilis, or gout. Lastly, Beer .sets down the operation as certainly useless, or even as likely to cause an entire destruction of the eye, when the patient is quite insensible of light ; when the iris and neighbouring textures, such as the cor- pus ciliare, corona ciliaris, the membrane of the vitreous humour, this humour itself, and the blood-vessels of the organ, are in a morbid state, or the whole eyeball manifestly in a preternatural condition. However, an opacity of the lens and its capsule, even when the latter is com- pletely adherent to the uvea, forms no prohibition to the formation of an artificial pupil, though it is a circumstance that has great weight in the selection of the method of operating. {Beer, b. ii. p. 197.) The morbid states of the whole eyeball, which maj-- complicate the atresia iridis, and render the operation not only useless, but hazardous to the preservation of the ej'e, are its dropsical enlarge- ment (see Hydrophthalmia) ; its atrophy ; its preternatural iirmness, from a general varicose affection of its blood-vessels ; and its morbid soft- ness, from a disorganisation of the vitreous humour. {Beer, vol. cit. p. 198.) Numerous as the plans are of making an artificial pupil, if we except the occasional prac- tice of forming a kind of artificial prolapsus of the iris, in order to change the position or shape of the imperfectly closed pupil, they may all be classed into three principal methods. 1. The sim- ple transverse, perpendicular, or otherwise-directed incision in the iris, now termed corotoinia, per- formed either through the sclerotica, or the cornea. 2. The excision of a piece of the iris, technically named corectomia. 'd. The separation of a part of its circumference from the ciliary ligament, called in the language of oculists corodiah/sia, with which the last method,or the operation aicorectomia, is combined in the plans suggested by Assalini and Reisinger. The excision of a portion of sclerotica, close to the cornea, with the view of forming an inlet for the rays of light to the retina, as proposed by Autenrieth, when the cornea is entirely opaque, may be considered a hopeless proceeding. With respect also to the three other methods, it is now well understood by all impartial surgeons, that the choice of them must depend upon the particular circumstances of the case, and that here it would