158 KREOSOTE been for twelve years a sufferer from disease of the ankle joint. The steps of the operation were as follows: the diseased foot was drawn forwards, an incision was made with the left hand from the prominence of thei?Ueriial malleolus backwards and downwards, to the middle of the heel. A similar incision with the right hand was then made from tlie external malleolus, downwards and backwards, to join the foregoing. A third incision was next carried along the edge of the sole, from the middle of the first to a point opposite the astragalo-scaphoid articulation; and a fourth on the opposite side of the sole, from the vertical incision to the situation of the calcaneo-cuboid joint. These latter incisions permitted a flap being made, two inches long from the under part of the sole. In the next place, a circular flap of integument was formed between the two malleoli, posteriorly, the lower border of the flap reaching to opposite the insertion of the tendo-Achillis. This flap being turned upwards, the tendon was cut through, and the os calcis having been disarticulated from the astralagus and cuboid bones, was removed, together with the in- tegument of the heel included between the two incisions. The lateral ligaments connecting the astragalus with the tibia and fibula were now di- vided, and the knife was carried into the joint on each side, care being taken to avoid wounding the anterior tibial artery, which was in view. The astragalus was then detached from the soft parts in front of the joint, and from its articulation with the scaphoid bone, and the malleoli of the tibia and fibula were removed with the bone nippers. The only artery requiring ligature was the poste- rior tibial artery. A good recovery ensued, and with the aid of a high-heeled shoe, the man was able to walk about with much ease and comfort, and with the possession of perfect flexion and extension. (See the Lancet, vol. ii. 1848, p. 5.) When the astragalus is diseased, it is seldom that the morbid action is confined solely to it. When this bone alone is affected, it is advised by some surgeons to perform excision as a rule in preference to gouging. It has been excised for disease by Mr. Statham, Mr. Erichsen, Mr. Fergusson, Mr. T. Wakley, and others. More usually its removal is called for in compound dislo cation, in which case, the bone, from its displace ment, eventually becomes carious or necrosed. The operation employed consists of an incision across the outer and anterior aspect of the ankle, exposing the bone, cutting across its neck with bone forceps, and then with stronger forceps forcibly elevating it from its bed, and detaching it by the cautious ap- plication of the knife, especially at the inner side, where the plantar arteries are in danger. When the bune is dislocated, its removal is comparatively an easy matter. A good example of excision of this bone for disease, by Mr. Statham, is published in the Lancet. (Vol. ii. 1855, p. 167.)] Thomas H. WaUey. Consult Whiic^s Cases in Surgery. Sahalier, Stances publiques de I'Acad. de Chir. Paris, 1799, p. 73; et Mdm. de I'Institut National, vol. v. 1805. Roux, de la Resection, &c. des Portions d'Os Malades, &c. Paris, 1812. Ph. Crampton, in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. 1827. A. Veipeau, Nouv. El^m. de MM. Op6r. t. i. Blackburn, in Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. i.; Wachter, Diss, de Arti- culis Extlrpandis, Groning;, 1810. Jeffrai/'s Cases of Excision of Joints, &c. 8vo. Glasgow, 1805. James Syme on the Excision of Diseased Joints, 8vo. Edi'nb., 1831; and in Principles of Surgery, 1837, ed. 2. [And the various modern works alluded to in the course of this article.] JUGUM PENIS. A contrivance for pre- venting the inconveniences of an incessant drib- bling of the urine in persons who are unable to retain this fluid in the bladder. A jugum penis, stricth'' speaking, is an instrument that operates by compressing some part of the urethra. A jugum of this kind, which was invented by Nuck, is described in Heister's Surgery. (See tab. xxvi. fig. 8. et 9.) But, when erections are likely to take place, a jugum constructed on this principle is not applicable ; and, indeed, in most cases it creates pain, and is not found to answer. When, in men, the infirmity is incurable, and a jugum cannot be worn, an apparatus for receiving the urine directly it escapes from the urethra, is the best resource. One of the best contrivances which I have seen, was worn by a gentleman who was desirous to have some invention which would receive a sufficient quantity of urine, and yet cause no disfigurement. The machine con- sisted of a long tube made of oiled silk, water- proof, and which extended down the inner side of the thigh, within his trousers. The diameter of it being very moderate, prevented it from making any prominence, while its length rendered it capa- ble of holding two or three pints of urine. [India-rubber urinals, both for male and female patients, answering their purpose very completely, may be obtained at all the surgical instrument makers. Some of them are provided with a valve which will not allow the urine to return after it has once entered the receptacle.] K KERATONYXIS. This term, derived from icepas, a horn, and vv^is, a puncture, has been em- ployed to denote the operation of couching, per- formed through the cornea, or h.or7iy coat of the eye, the opaque lens being, in that manner, either de- pressed or broken piecemeal, or, in other instances, merely turned, so as to place its anterior and pos- terior surfaces in the horizontal position. See Cataract. „ KNEE, DISEASES AND INJURIES OF. See Dislocations; Fractures; Gunshot- Wounds ; .Joints, &c. KREOSOTE (from ,cp4as,flesh, find ardC'^, I save). A now principle, discovered by M. Reich- enbach, in 1804, in pyroligneous acid and all the tars, and so named from its property of preserv- ing animal matter. According to this gentleman, it is of service in caries, cancerous ulcers, rheuma- tic pains, and other diseases. It appears, from Dr. EUiotson's researches, that it has considerable power in checking vomiting, even that attending Asiatic cholera. He also found it of use in phthisis, epilepsy, diabetes, and neuralgia. "Of its external application (says he) I can speak favourably. When an ulcerated surface has re- quired a stimulus, or when a slough, or unhealthy,