450 PHARYNX, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF. the domain of the physician than the surgeon, from its common association with various internal diseases. It is chiefly as a result of the application of irritants that pharyngitis is seen by the surgeon, but it may arise from very many causes, such as cold and damp, erysipelas, smallpox, measles, scarlet fever, dyspepsia, the extension of inflamma- tion from the mouth or tonsils, syphilis, scrofula, &c. The irritation caused by the impaction of a foreign body, or by the contact of acids, alkalies, boiling fluids or flame, constitutes not imusually the cause of pharyngeal inflammation as it is presented to the surgeon. The symptoms of pharyngitis will vary with its intensity and cause. When severe, the constitu- tion sympathises very markedly, and we observe the usual signs of general fever. In the sub-acute and chronic forms of the complaint, the tendency to constitutional depression is often very great, especially in that form of pharyngitis which some- times attends erysipelas and the exanthemata. Locally we notice a greater or less degree of dys- phagia, with pain accompanying the attempt to swallow,—spasm,—frequent endeavours to hawk up or swallow down the superabundant and adhesive mucus which is soon secreted after the establish- ment of the inflammation. There is frequently regurgitation of the liquid portions of the food by the nostrils,—there is pain on pressing the throat, and some swelling or fulness. Internally, the changes produced by the inflammatory action will vary greatly according to the exciting cause, the duration of its action, and the intensity of the re- sulting effect. The mucous membrane may be only slightly reddened, or it may be greatly in- jected, softened, or completely destroyed. It is commonly, even in the slighter forms, tumefied, rendered more vascular than usual, and its follicles enlarged, but in such severe and fatal accidents as occasionally arise from the application of strong caustic liquids, the lining membrane of the mouth and pharynx may be quite charred and destroyed. If the inflammation extend to the nostrils and downwards into the cesophagus and larynx, we shall have a change in the tones of the voice and, it may be, dangerous embarrassment of the respira- tion. Reference has already been made to the de- structive effects occasionally seen in the gullet from an attempt to swallow caustic solutions, boiling liquid of any kind, or the respiration of flame, as that of gas or fire, or of hot steam. Such injury as is sometimes caused in this manner may produce very rapid death from collapse. In such cases, the spasmodic action of the constrictor muscles of the fauces in general causes the fluid to he expelled before it penetrates beyond the pharynx, but such injury to the interior of the gullet is nevertheless occasioned as may quickly prove fatal. The lining membrane reduced to a pulp, or charred throughout or in patches,—perforation of the walls, —violent inflammation, followed by efi"usion at the glottis,—these are the most common effects. If the patient recovers from the immediate shock produced by the accident, he has a long and trying ordeal to pass through before recovery can become established. Ulceration and sloughing of the mucous membrane, followed by cicatrisation (in favourable cases) and almost inevitable contraction of the canal, produce a succession of most formi- dable dangers. Even in the less severe cases, plastic exudation on the surface and beneath the mucous membrane is often the source of much embarrass- ment. A patient who has drunk a strong caustic solution frequently suffers from violent retching, which can seldom be allayed, and which is easily reproduced if it for a moment cease,—great pros- tration,—difficulty of breathing and swallowing, and often the evacuation of changed blood by emesis and stool. When slight, then pharyngitis may speedily end in recovery, or pass into a chronic state, but in more severe cases sub-mucous deposition of plastic - matter takes place, or abscesses may form in the cellular tissue around, or ulceration, sloughing, or even gangrene and perforation may follow. Rarely,^but in a few cases, extensive adhesions between surfiices are met with, as when the soft palate becomes connected to the back of the fauces. Adhesions of a very complete kind have in this way sometimes been formed. Stricture of the pas- sage is by no means an unfrequent result of severe and protracted inflammation, followed by loss of substance. A false membrane—grey, tough, and adherent—is produced with great rapidity,and over- spreads the surface of the pharynx in some affec- tions of the throat, which are occasionally epidemic, and to which the name diphtheria has been ap- plied. The treatment which we must employ in any case of inflammation of the pharynx will depend very much on the cause giving rise to it and the form it assumes. It is no part of my duty to detail the means employed to combat such in- flammation as it occurs in connection with the exanthemata, in diphtheria, &c., but it may be remarked that while in most of the forms in which it is presented to the surgeon it demands a decided antiphlogistic treatment, yet as seen in connection with the low forms of erysipelas and other asthenic complaints, not only should no measures be used which may possibly depress the vital powers, but every exertion should be made to retain them in vigour. In strong and plethoric persons, where the in- flammation is severe, general blood-letting may be called for,—in most cases leeches, fomentations, poultices, and ice allowed to melt in the mouth will be of benefit. Low diet should be ordered, and emollient gargles used. Emetics are occa- sionally serviceable in the outset of idiopathic pharyngitis, and the administration internally of calomel and opium, or antimony and purgatives, may in certain cases be thought advantageous. If there be danger of suftbcation, tracheotomy may be demanded,—the opening in the windpipe being retained till all danger is past. If the food and medicine cannot be swallowed, they must be given by enema. After the acute stage has passed, detergent and disinfecting gargles, as those con- taining chlorine, and the local application of solid or fluid caustic, will in many cases be attended ^vith good. In the low asthenic form of inflammation, the application of a strong solution of nitrate of silver is most valuable, and then too tonics and good food, with, it may be, wine, will require to be added. The remedies, however, it is again repeated, must be in all cases varied according to the exciting cause and the severity of the affec- tion. Wiien a caustic fluid has been the occasion of violent and destructive inflammation, we may