ULCERS. 81.9 can be emplo3-ed with advantage. Experience is of inestimable service in teaching the surgeon to regulate the pressure of the strapping to the case on hand, and his chief guides are the colour of the part and the effects of pressure made with the baud, as showing the state of the circulatioiu When pres- sure is applied by the hand, the rapidity with which the capillaries are emptied and refill gives much in- formation ; then the amount of swelling and dis- charge, and also to some limited extent the patient's feelings. Many persons are very much afraid of strangulation, and complain of tightness when there is none, and not a few cannot submit to the uneasi- ness which at first generally attends the strapping of a limb which has not been before supported, so that the patient's sensations must not be greatly relied on to guide us. The effects of the first applica- tion will be a most valuable aid to our further pro- ceedings as regards tightness of application. The benefit to be derived from this method is soon ap- parent in the disappearance of the high edges from the sore and the swelling from the limb, the reduc- tion of exuberant granulations, the diminution and the more healthy character of the discharge, and the contraction of the ulcer. Whenever the pain and uneasiness, with a feeling of burning, returns, it is time to renew the application. The abundance of the discharge and the state of looseness of the strapping will chiefly regulate this necessity. Some- times, though rarely, it has to be done daily ; aoraetimes not for weeks. It is an immense ad- vantage that the patient thus treated can continue his employment without hindrance, as he can also, by the plan recommended by Mr. Whateiy, which, however, is greatly less efficient It consists of compres3;'8 and flannel roller.] The following is Whately's description of his method :— " The best width for a flannel roller designed for those who have slender legs is three inches, but for those whose legs are of a large size they should always be three inches and a half in width. They must therefore be at first torn a little wider, that they may be of their proper width v/hen repeatedly washed. It will likewise be found that rollers made of fine, soft, and open flannel will answer much better than those made of coarse hard flannel. '■ For those who have full-sized legs, the length of six j'ards is but just sufficient to answer all the purposes intended by a roller ; but in those who have very small legs five yards is a sufficient length. Care should be taken that the rollers be washed in very hot water, and they should be hung up to dry immediate!}' on being washed. If these precautions be not attended to, repeated washing of them will in some kinds of flannel make them as narrow as tape, by which they will be rendered almost Useless. " In applying a roller tlie first circle should be made round the lowest part of the ankle, as near as possible to the heel ; the second should be formed from thence round the foot ; the third should be passed again round the foot quite to the toes, The roller should then be passed from the foot round the ankle and instep a second time, to make the fourth circle. In doing this it should be brought rearer (but not over) the point of the heel tliaii it was at the first time of going round this part. The fifth circle should pass over the ankle again, and not more than half an inch higher up the leg than the fourth circle. The si-vth, seventh, eighth, and ninth circles should ascend spirally along the small of the leg, at the <Mcact distance of three-fourths of an inch from each other. Having proceeded thus far up the leg, we may begin to increase the dis- tances of the circles from each other: they mav succeed each other upward to the knee, at the dis- tance of from one to two inches, according to the size and shape of the leg. At that part where the calf of the leg commences it is generally necessary to let the upper edge of the roller be once, twice, or thrice turned downwards for about half the cir- cumference of the leg, in order to make the roller lie smooth between the middle of the calf and the small of the leg. When the roller has been thus applied as far as the knee, there will be a portion of it to spare, of perhaps a yard in length ; this re- mainder should be brought down by spiral windings at greater distances from each other than those which were made in the ascent of the roller. The windings should in general be completed in the small of the leg, where the roller should be pinned. " In many cases it is necessary to apply the roller over the heel. It should be brought as low as possible round the ankle, as in the former de- scription. From thence the second circle of the roller should pass from the instep over one side of the heel, and be brought over the other side of the heel to the instep ag;iin. The third circle should be passed round the ankle a second time, but still nearer to the heel than the first circle was. The roller should after this be brought back to the foot and passed round it to make the fourth circle. A fifth circle should be again made (though it is not in all cases absolutely necessary) round the foot to the toes. To make the sixth circle the roller should be brought back and passed round the ankle again. The seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh circles should ascend spirally at the eaact distance of three-fourths of an inch from each other, tliese distances commencing at the sixth circle. The roller should then be carried to the knee, and be brought down again to the small of the leg, as described in the former instruction. •' In applying the compresses it is necessary in every instance to put them on one by.one, and not all m a mass, though they be of a proper size and number. They should be crossed in different directions ; the largest of them should in no case be longer than just to meet on the opposite side of the leg to which they are applied. I have in many instances seen the compresses applied by the patients of such a length as to go round the leo- like a roller, and be fastened together with pins? This method generally wrinkles' and blisters the skin, and by no means answers the purpose of making a compression on tlie part where it is most wanted. I never suffer a pin to be used in the compresses. If the same compresses in any case be applied two days together, they should ahvays be turned on the contrary side at each re-applica- tion, in order to prevent wrinkles on the skin." (See Practical Obs. on the Cure of Wounds and Ulcers on the Leys loiihuut Rest : bii T. WkUelii • 179.').) [Galvanism has been highly spoken of by some in the treatment of indolent sores. In the Medical Times and Gazette for July 2;i, 1053, Mr. Spencer Weils has well described the mode of using it and. the advantages he found from it. During the progress of a case it is often neces- sary to vary the applications as the good effects of