4(30 PNEUMOTHORAX. operations may be necessary in a plethoric state of the system, and it behoves the surgeon to pay due regard to this circumstance. It not only influences the progress and results of such cases in a general way, but it may affect injuriously the healing of wounds by its direct elfects owing to the quality of the blood, the congestive tendency, and the force of the circulation. Hence it is a rule of practice, where time permits, to correct plethora before proceeding to important operations, by its appropriate remedies—abstinence from a full and too nutritious diet, and from stimulants; active mus- cular and mental exertion,and a diminished amount of sleep in cases where this is admissible; the use of cooling diluents, and by promoting the secretions and excretions. Where time will not allow of the full operation of these remedies, the surgeon will often find it necessary to resort to the more direct plan of purging and veneesection, which latter not only reduces the quantity of blood, but the propor- tion of red-corpuscles; for,although simple plethora is not often permanently benefited by vascular deple- tion, the effect may be produced temporarily with the greatest certainty. Temporary or false plethora may be produced by various causes, as the sudden elevation of the temperature to which the body is subjected, in- creasing the bulk of the circulating fluids. Nature has provided extensively for the prevention of this effect by increasing the force and velocity of the circulation and augmenting the pulmonary and cutaneous transpiration and the perspiration, or, failing this, by an increase of the urinary and alvine excretions. But these physiological pro- cesses, again, are influenced by so many circum- stances that they may fail to operate as safety- valves. Transpiration, for instance, may be aug- mented by the dryness of the atmosphere, or re- duced to a minimum by an excess of moisture. So, also, the heat and concentration of the blood from the loss of its more fluid parts acts variously on the nervous system, inducing thirst, and a pie thoric tendency may be sustained and aggravated by the quantity of liquid imbibed. This tem- porary plethora is often produced in a marked degree by the hot bath. Sometimes it follows a full meal. The effect of all the causes producing plethora temporarily are always greater in indi- viduals who are permanently plethoric, and these circumstances have to be taken into consideration by the surgeon in all cases in which the fulness and tension of the vascular system or the energy of the molecular actions of the blood are important, as in inflammations, haemorrhages, or aneurisms. PartialPletJwra—Hypercemia.—ThiB may occnr in almost any part of the system, either with or without an increase of the general mass of the blood and even when there is a deficiency, or coincidently with various morbid states of the blood as respects its constituents and their proportions. Where the smaller vessels of a part are principally affected the term hypersemia is now generally employed, and partial plethora is seldom spoken of, but if the term plethora is to be retained in patholog)', the word partial may be still advantageously employed to designate cases wherein fulness of blood occurs in some of the larger vessels, or in a considerable ponion of the vascular system, but not in the whole body, as where constriction of the vessels of the external surface produces a plethora of the viscera, or obstruction of the circulation through the heart is attended with a plethora of the portal or the renal vessels. After the amputation of a limb, the same quantity of blood continuing to be formed, a plethora is produced, which may be general or partial. The plethora of early life is in a great measure arterial, that of advanced life venous. (Fj'rfe Hyper.^jmia.)] H. Ancell. PNEUMOTHORAX (from rrvtvixa, and Biipa^), An accumulation of air in the sac of the pleura. Air may pass into this situation either from the lung or bronchial tubes, or through the parietes of the chest. An example of the former is afforded by the rupture of the pleura pulmonalis by the bursting of a tubercular cavity communicat- ing with the bronchial tubes; and an instance of the latter is afforded by the pneumothorax fol- lowing certain penetrating wounds of the chest. Air is also stated by M. Itard to be sometimes generated within the sac of the pleura. This last occurrence is rare: and Dr. Houghton considers that the doctrine of pneumothorax being ever formed by the decomposition of a pleuritic effusion, by no means satisfactorily proved. (See Cyclop, qfPract. Med., art. Pneumothorax.) According to Laennec, the pleura, in some very uncommon in- stances, secretes air: and the air so produced is occasionally accompanied by an effusion of seroiis or purulent fluid. " This variety (Dr. Houghton remarks) has not been decidedly established by the observation of other pathologists, and we record its existence merely on his authority and on that of Andral, who relates a case of it {Clin. Med. t. ii. p. 512), in which, however, this origin was not unquestionably proved." (0^. cit.) In cases of pneumothorax produced by the bursting of a tubercular abscess into the pleura, the existence of a large cavitj', or even of numerous tubercles, is by no means essential. Dr. Houghton has known pneumothorax occur, where the cavitj', which led to the perforation was smaller than a nut. Andral and others met with cases, where only five or six tubercles existed in the lung; and Dr. Townsend had one remarkable case, where it fol- lowed the bursting of a single tubercle which had been formed immediately under the pleura, all the rest of the lung being perfectly free from tu- bercles. The passage of the contents of the tubercle, and of the air, into the sac of the pleura, which mostly happens on the left side, alwa3-s brings on a severe attack of acute pleuritis. If this be not speedily mortal, the effused lymph soon becomes organised, and forms a factitious membrane, over- laying the whole surface of the compressed lung, as a deposition upon the pleura, which lies under it, of its natural thickness. The lung itself lies compressed and flattened against the spinal column and mediastinum; and in cases which have lasted some time, it generally becomes reduced to about one fourth of its natural dimensions; and then, if cut into, its substance is found to be so condensed as to present the appearance of what is termed carnified lung. The perforation, by which the air escapes from the lung into the sac of the pleura during inspiration, becomes fistulous; and as for the air itself, if it be discharged by puncturing the thorax, it is found to be generally an inodorous gas, little different from the atmospheric air, whence it was originally derived. (See Dr. John Davy, in Phil. Trans. 1824 ; and Dr. Jpjolm m Trans, of Assoc. of College of Physicians, Dublin, vol. V.)