POLYPUS, 468 friend to blow it daily up the nostril through a quill. In one month this patient came to me well. Both nostrils were quite clear, and free from all signs of disease. This patient was under ray observation for three years aftervvards, and no return of the affection made its appearance. " Case II.—The second case I propose to quote occurred in the person of a gentleman, aged fifty- five, who had polypoid growths in both nostrils for ten years. When he came under my care in July, 1864, both nostrils were completely plugged. On tlie left side the nose was filled, even -to its external orifice; on the right the growth occupied the posterior nares, and was not visible in front. I cleared the left nostril with tolerable ease by means of the instrument I generally employ, the ' noose' taking away one of the largest polypi I ever removed. Some bleeding followed the opera- tion, and as the polypus of the right side could not be brought forwards for manipulation, its removal was postponed for one week. I thought, however, it would be well to try the effects of the tannin in this case, and prescribed it as in the last. The following week, when I saw this gentleman again, he came into my consulting room with some spirit, saying that he was all right, that on the third day after the use of the snutt", a polypus as large as the one I had removed from the left nostril had come away from the right, and that he was quite well. This gentleman was ordered to keep some of the snuff by him, and to use it on the slightest indications of obstruction to his nose. He has remained well ever since, and when I saw him early this year he was quite free from the disease. " Case Z7/.—Sarah S , aged sixty, had been the subject of a polypus in both nostrils for many years. She had been under my care for several years, and had been operated upon five times, the last operation having been performed three months previously. When I saw her on the 19th of February, 1866, her nose was full of polypi, even to the external orifice. Although an extreme case of the disease, I deemed it right, as an experiment, to try the effect of the ' tannin used as a snuff, and on March 12th (three weeks afterwards), the nose was quite clear. From the day of its use the growth bega-.i to wither and to slough oft". By the 26th Marjj, on a careful ex aminatiou of the nostrils, no signs of the disease could be made out. The mucous membrane also appeared healthy. I saw this patient on the 28th May, and she was still well "Case /r.—Stephen B , aged thirty-one, came to me on the 24th of March, 1866, with nasal polypi, cjinpletely occluding the right nostri He had had the disease six or seven years liud been operated upon many times, tlie last being about a year ago. Tannin was ordered as a snutt', and on the fourth day (March 29) the growth had much diminished : it was evidently withi'ring. He had then a slight passage. On the 5th of April the polypus had disappeared, and he could breathe freely througli the nostril. On the 5th of May he was still well. " Case K.—James S , aged sixty,came under my care on the 10th of May, 1866. He had been the subject of nasal polypi in both nostrils for about five years, and had been operated upon three times. Both nostrils were completely filled, no passage existing through either side. Tannin was ordered, and on the 20th of June, he could blow through both nostrils, no signs of the disease existing. On the 10th of July he was quite well, the nose looking as healthy as it could be. " Case VI—George G , aged fifty-six, came under my care at Guy's Hospital, on Oct. 8th, 1866. He had had polypi of both nostrils for some years. He was operated upon in November, 1865, and again in April, 1866. When he came under my notice, both nostrils were completely filled with small polypi. Tannin was ordered as a snuff, and in two weeks the nose was clear, no signs of disease existing. I saw him one month subsequently, when he was well, " It is unnecessary for me to quote other cases to prove the value of the practice I have recom- mended. The examples I have given appear to be conclusive as to the power of ' tannin' to cause destruction of the gelatiniform polypus. When I first employed the snuff, I thought it would be useful only in destroying small polypi, and in thus retarding the growth, if not preventing a recur- rence, of the disease, after it had once been sur- gically removed ; but subsequent experience has proved that it does much more—that it has the power of destroying even the largest growths, and of preventing the recurrence of a troublesome and ob- stinate affection."—Lancet, Feb. 23, 1867, p, 235.] POLYPUS OF THE UTERUS. — [Under this name are included all tumors, stalked or sessile, which hang from the inner wall of the uterus or vagina. It is, however, convenient to exclude cancerous growths and the cauliflower ex- crescence. Polypi may be found at any age and in any social condition, in the married and in the virgin. They are most common during the period of reproductive capacity. There are four principal varieties. 1. The most common aal typical has been called successively fibrous, fibroid, or muscu- lar (myoma), according to the current pathological doctrines. It is in reality nothing else than a fibroid tumor formed in the muscular wall of the uterus in process of extrusion. It is identical in structure with the ordinary fibroid of the uterus, as Vogel {Erl'duienmyslafeln zur Pathdogischcn Histologie, 1843) has demonstrated, and Oldham {GuT/'s Reports, 1841), the writer, and Dr. Hassall [Tnms. of Lond. Med. Soc, Lancet, 1851), Bris- towe {Trans. Pathol. Soc, 1853), and others since. The structure of the uterind fibroid is closely ana- logous to the proper muscular tissue of the uterus in which it is found, and from which it appears to be formed. Vogel's description of one case is so illustrative of the structure and other features of fibroid polypus, lliat the relation of it becomes especially instructive. In describing Fig. 5, Plate IX., he'says: "It represents the piimigenous cells of a "fibrous tumor arising in the uterus. These cells are doubtless the rudiments of organic muscular fibres. The history of the disease is as follows:—A single woman, aged forty-four, was admitted into the hospital, after iiaving suffc^red fur several years from a fluctuating swellnig in the right side of tiie abdomen, which hitherto had caused no pain, a dragging sensation, as if the re about to brmg forth, only excepted. patient were „ , - , , Suddenly violent pains came on in the abdomen, increased by pressure. Tiiese continued, and the patient died after three days. The autopsy gave the following results : The omentum was consider- ably thickened on the mht side, and adherent