ns follow : The congulum acquires gradually an increase of densitj', which is accompanied b}' the removal of the red colouring matter of the blood. The fibrine becomes thus more and more apparent, and is recognised by its pale straw colour, and more especially by the manifestation of its plastic properties, whereby it assumes, almost from the commencement, a laminated or fibiiform arrange- ment. In this, the early stage of what may be called the process of organisation of the fibrine, there is one circumstance, which is peculiarly in- teresting, not only because it enables us to explain the origin and mode of formation of some ana- logous tissues, but because it shows that the vital endowments, or plastic properties of fibrine, under the circumstances in whicli we are now consider- ing it, are of the same kind as those of coagulable lymph, however much they may vary in degree. The circumstance to which 1 allude, is, the tend- ency of the tibrine from the commencement to escape towards, and to accumulate at, the circum- ference of the coagulum, or t.i place itself in con- tact with the living tissues which surround the coagulum. It is not only in a blood-vessel that this is observed; it is seen to take place in the cavity of the heart in the formation of what are called polypi, whatever may be their mode of at- tachment, as well when they occupy the greater part of one of the cavities of this organ, as when the}' are small, and connected only by a narrow pedicle; and sometimes in large serous cavities in the case of hremorrhage, when the patient has survived that accident for a certain length of time." (See CarstuelCs Jllusiralions of the Ele- nicnlary Forms of Disease, Fasc. on Analogous Tissiies.) In a work of considerable merit. Dr. Baron, of Gloucester, offers many considerations against the correctness of the ordinary doctrines, respect- ing the formation of tubercles and tumours. By tuhercles, he means disorganisations composed of one cyst, " whatever be its magnitude or the nature of its contents,'' and by tumors he would understand " morbid structures, that appear to be composed of more than one tubercle.'' {On Tulierculaled Accretions of Serous Membranes, 4-c. p. 213.) The late Dr. Adams, as is well known, referred cancer to the living state, growth, and multiplica- tion of the hydatid. {On the Cancerous Breast, p. 77.) In order to account for the various appearances of the disease, he divided hj-datids into a number of species, as li/mpJiatica, cruenta, and carcinomatosa, and suspects that there may be others. These, he affirms, arc lodged in dif- ferent cavities, or enclosed in a fungus, which is occasioned by any individual, or numbers, stimu- lating the surrounding parts to generate it, for the purpose of dividing the dead from the living. This fungus is a nidus, formed altogether for the protection of another generation; by means of it, the living families are separated from the dead, and their preservation is secured. They die, he says, without otherwise affecting the body in ■which they existed, but by their local stimiilns; and he declares, that his object is to prove the animalcular existence of carcinoma. Now, ac- cording to Dr. Baron, this main position is the fundamental error of Dr. Adams's book; for, " in no rational nor legitimate point of view may cancer be said to have an animalcular cvistence; klOR. 793 because admitting, fur the sake of argument, that hydatids are animalcules, it has, I trust, been shown (says Dr. Baron), that it is to the loss of the hydatical character altogether, and the trans- formations of these bodies, that the morbid appear- ances in this and many other diseases are to he referred."—{P.-276.) Although I consider the evidence and remarks which Dr. Baron has adduced, in support of his opinions, in many respects interesting, the facta brought forward do not appear to me to justify the conclusion, that the formation of tubercles and tumors originally depends upon hydatids and their transformation. That hydatids are some- times found within diseased structures, and that cells, cysts, granulated and tuberculated appear- ances, are often noticed in tumors of different kinds, are facts universalh- received. But, the presence of hydatids in the unchanged state is only an occasional circumstance; whereas, if they were generally a cause of tumors by undergoing some unexplained transformation, it is impossible to sup- pose that some of them, at least, would not be more commonly found in a distinct, unaltered form within or around all swellings, imagined to pro- ceed from clusters of them. As tlie growth of tumors formed on these principles could not, I imagine, be accounted for, without supposing a continual multiplication and transformation of hydatids, either within or around the swellings, one would expect that some visible hydatids, previously to their transfiguration, would certainly be apparent on minutely examining the interior and the circumference of the diseased structure. Yet I am not aware that such fact has been proved to be generally the case, either with the aid of the scalpel or the microscope. The obser- vation of cavities, cells, and tuberculated appear- ances, in some kinds of tumors, is no proof that such modifications of structure are transformed hydatids. Besides, if my limits would allow me to consider this topic further, many reasons might be urged against the hydatid doctrine, arising from, the consideration of the changes evident in the blood-vessels, supplying parts in which a consider- able tumor is situated. Thus, we often see the trunks of the arteries, rimning towards such parts, doubled in size (as is noticed with respect to the' carotid, in the natural growth of the stag's horn), and indicating, at least, that the formation and in- crease of swellings are effected through the medium of the blood-vessels. The sudden effect of tying the arteries, by which a tumor is supplied with blood, would also be difficult to explain, if the growth of the swelling really depended upon some undefined transformation of hydatids. [In a paper read before the Roy. Med. Chir. Society in 1829, Dr. Hodgkin added to our know- ledge of the anatomical characters of seme adven- titious structures, and in a volume of Lectures on Morbid Anatomy, published in 1836, he gives a full description of "adventitious serous cysts," and their mode of development. In the eighth lecture, he carefully discriminates between them and hydatid cysts, tegumentary encysted tumors, cysts formed by the walls of obstructed canals, those formed by the distension of natural cells, and those developed in the thyroid .body. Ho divides them into two classes, the simple, and the com- pound. But during the years 1825 and 1827, Raspail