: ULCERS, same are generally more efficacious. Bruised sea- weed, cold or warm, has a considerable repute; but linseed, arrowroot, alone or mixed with ace- tate of lead, decoction of poppy-heads or chamomile flowers, belladonna, hyoscyaraus, &c., or with ciUechu, kino, oak-bark, &c., when an astringent action is desired, or with aqueous solution of opium, generally answers best. If the granulations are . large and flabby, the poulticing should be with- dra\yn as soon as possible; and, in fact, whenever the irritation and inflammation have been subdued, they should be given up. Simple or medicated steam is also useful to remove irritation. The over-stimulation of callous sores occasion- ally causes them to become inflamed, but more usually it arises from injury or irritating applica- tions, as those which decompose (ointments, oils, &c.), and may be due to gastric derangements, ex- cessive toil, &c. The poor, who cannot afford proper dressings, and must work hard, and who are so curiously careless about their sores, and credulous as to the efficacy of every " saw" which is recommended to them by a neighbour or passer- by, are most apt to suflfer from inflammation in their ulcers. If sloughing or phagedsena attack a sore, decided measures must at once be taken to correct it. It Js in syphilitic sores that it is most apt to arise The reader is referred also to Hospital Gan- grene for much that might be said here. Slough- ing arises from excessive inflammation, in which the granulations first disappear and then the edges of the sore. It may be due to any of the causes which establish oraggravate inflammation. Phage- dasna again commonly arises from the action of an external poison. The remedies for inflammation already discussed are demanded, and opium, used both internally and locally should not be over- looked. The potassio-tartrate of iron, so useful in syphilitic phagedaena, is also most beneficial in other forms. It should be given in free doses in temally and applied to the sore as well. Disin- fectants (carbolic acid, sulphurous acid, M'Dougars and Condy's liquors, chlorinated soda, coal-tar lotions, &c.) should be mixed with the dressings ;and if these milder measures fail, then a strong es'cha- mtic, of which nitric acid is, in the writer's opinion, the best, should be freely applied to the surface and edges of the sore, following the poisonous agency under the borders and into every sinus and cranny till the whole is destroyed, and then carrot poultices will remove the slough thus formed and give a clean surface, which is afterwards to be dressed according to its requirements. The sore should be well dried with tow, or blotting-paper, before the acid is applied, and a wooden spatula should be used for the acid, so as to have a firm agent to work with. Loose sloughs may be gently chipped away to help their separation. The most scrupulous attention to the hygienic condition of the patient is required,—the air in his room must be Ireely renewed, possibly fumigations with sul- phur or chlorine employed,—his food regulated so as to support his strength and yet not over stimu- late him. Tonics administered, and opium given to quiet irritation and obtain rest. Sores spreading with less acutcness may bo well managed by painting dilute tincture of iodine over the surrounding parts, while we apply nitric acid or a strong solution of lunar caustic to the surface to be followed by a poultice. ' vo;.. II. 817 The "irritable" or "neuralgic" ulcer is best treated by having a solid stick of caustic freely ap- plied to its surface and surrounding skin, or using a blister, by either of which means the pain is better allayed than by any other plan. Hemlock or opium dressings afterwards, or, what is better, strapping with plaster from the foi)t, and put it on as Critchett directs, as firmly as it can be drawn. The general health must be attended to, and the functions of the bowels and uterus especially regu- lated. Alteratives, purgatives, ferruginous pre- parations or mineral waters, and an opiate at night will complete the cure. The " fungous " or " exuberant " ulcer chiefly requires careful compression by strapping and ban- dages. If the discharge is great, strips of lint miiy be substituted for the plaster. Alteratives and tonics will also be required, and Sir E. Home strongly advocated arsenic in such sores. Exu- berant granulations can be repressed by dry lint or pressure, or by being dusted with powdered sul- phate of copper, or powdered rhubarb (Sir E. Home) alone or mixed with powdered opium. 3. Ulcers faiVmg to heal from defect of action, as a general rule require stimulation both by the improvement of the general health and the use of local dressings, generous food, malt liquor or wine, tonics, especially quinine and iron, and all invigo- rating measures, while various stimulant applica- tions are used to rouse the vigour of the sore. The " weak ulcer," or that which wants healing power, will benefit by the use of Hey's red wash, in a strength fitted for its need, combined with careful bandaging. Sir E. Home put thin plates of lead over the dressings and under the bandages to augment the pressure. A favourite application ot his, was a scruple of nitrous acid in eight ounces of water, the strength being increased or diminished according to the requirements of the case. Mr. Paget thinks a mixture of resin oint- ment and Peruvian balsam, spread on lint, the best local application for weak sores. Galvanism has been had recourse to with advantage, used in the way before referred to. ^' Callous " or " indolent " sores require stimu- lation, but, as a preliminary step, we must get quit ot the hard elevated dead edges, and this some do by paring them off with a sharp knife, or peeling them off; which is in many cases readily enough done, for so soon as the hard band is detached at one spot, it can be seized and removed in a con- tinuous piece from the whole margin of the sore. This end, however, is infinitely better attained' and the vitality of the sore revived, by the method recommended by Mr. Syme, viz. covering the whole sore and edges and a considerable portion of the surrounding parts with a fly blister, which eff^Bctually accomplishes all that is wauted, and at a wonderfully small cost of pain and annoy- ance. After the removal of the blister, we have a healing sore usually to deal with, or, at least, one which merely requires a slight stimu- liint or strapping to heal it. The writer has had ample experience of the exceeding useful- ness of this plan. It is greatly more satisfac- tory than that advocated by some of rubbing over the sore and edges with caustic, then using a poultice, and lastly strapping and bandages. Mr. SItey recommends five grains of the snap mid opium pill, to bo given nieht and ninriiing, and others have spoken favourably of hydriodate of potash in 3 G