SKIN, DISEASES OF. bladder, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the patient has a stone or not. (See Sounding.) SETON. A kind of issue, usually made by means of a flat needle, from half an inch to nearly an inch in breadth. The needle is commonly a little curved. From the point, to its broadest part, it is double-edged, and, behind, it has a transverse eye, through which a skein of thread or silk is placed. A fold of skin is pinched up, at the part where the seton is designed to be made, and the needle is pushed through it, together with the skein of thread, which is first dipped in sweet oil. Th instrument is not to be introduced too low into the base of the fold, nor too high, near its edge In the first case, the muscles, and parts, which ought to be avoided, might be wounded; in the second, the interspace between the two wounds would be narrow,and the seton soon make its way through it. When no seton-needle is at hand, the fold of the skin [may be punctured with a lancet, and the skein of thread introduced by means of an eye- probe. A seton may be applied almost to any part of the surface of the body, when circumstances require it; but, one of its openings should always be made lower than the other, that the matter may readily flow out. The skein of thread is to remain untouched, for a few days afier the operation, until the suppuration loosens it. Afterwards, the part of the thread, nearest the wound, is to be smeared with oil, white cerate, or any common ointment, and drawn under the interspace between the two wounds, and what was there before is to be cut off. The seton is to be drawn in this man- ner once or twice a daj-, according as the quantity of matter may require. A new skein of silk, or thread, is to be attached to the preceding one, as often as necessary. Care is to be taken to keep the thread on the outside of the wound well covered, and free from the discharge, which would make it stiff and hard, and apt to occasion pain and bleed- ing on being drawn into the wound. If the dis- charge should be deficient in quantit}', powdered cantharides or aavine may be mixed with the oint- ment. A neater, and less troublesome kind of seton, is that in which a thin, smooth slip of elas- tic gum is employed, instead of silk. Tlie elastic gum tape is generally about four inches long, and half an inch wide; the needle for conveying it through the integuments has no eye, but takes hold of it in the manner of a pair of forceps. This kind of seton has the recommendation of being less painful than the common one, more cleanly, and does not require the repetition of the disagreeable operation of changing the silk. When it is wished to render it more irritating, the elastic gum slip may be dravvn a little out of either opening, and smeared with savine ointment. SHINGLES. See Skin, Diseases of. SILVER, NITRATE OF. {Lunar Causlic.) One of the best of the milder caustics. Its utility in stimulating indolent ulcere, and keeping granu- lations from rising too much, is well known to every surgeon. JVIr. Hunter sanctions its appli- cation in the early stage of a chancre, while ab- sorption nf the syphilitic virus may not yet have taken place. Pie directs the caustic to be scraped to a point, like a black-lead pencil; every part of the chancre to be touched with it, and the repeti- tion of this process till the last slough thrown off S73 been advocated by many other surgeons, in the hope that it may lessen the chance of the consti- tution becoming affected; and it is occasionally resorted to by those who use mercury, as well as by others who trust to other means for the cure of the venereal disease. The important use of the nitrate of silver in the cure of numerous diseases, which fall under the care of surgeons, I have noticed in various arti- cles of this work. The late professor Delpech believed that it had greater power than any other escharotic or stimulant in expediting the process of cicatrisation. I entertain the same belief. Its efficacy in the relief and cure of many diseases of the eye, may be learned from the explanations given in the articles Cornea, Iris, Conjuncti- vitis, &c. As an application to this organ, it is used either in substance, or in the form of a lotion, or of the black ointment, containing from ten to twenty grains of the nitrate to each drachm of lard. Some examples of lupus, or noli me tangere, are benefited by the nitrate of silver, and a strong so- lution of it agrees well with certain obstinate ulcerations, which occur round the roots of the nails of the fingers and toes. The lotion is some- times applied by means of a camel-hair brush; sometimes by means of lint; sometimes with a syringe; and occasionally by dropping it on the part, as for instance the eye. In an interesting " Essay on ilie Use of Nitrate of Silver, ed. 2, 8vo. London, 1829," Mr. Higgin- bottom notiges its influence in subduing inflam- matory action. That it " should subdue the in- flammation of phlegmon, or of a line of inflamed absorbents, arrest the spreading of erysipelas, pre- vent and modify the formation of pus (says' he), are facts I bejieve totally new." In some cases of external inflammation, he finds it sufficient merely to blacken the cuticle; in others, it is ne- cessary to produce a degree of vesication. In some instances, the application has appeared to prevent suppuration; in others, a plainly fluctuat- ing fluid has been absorbed. Mr. Higginbottom throws out a suj>gestion, that the application may prove useful also in internal inflammation, by in- ducing prompt vesication over the inflamed part, or even without it. But, for a particular account of its use in phlegmonous inflammation, whitlow erysipelas, inflammation of the absorbents, wounds' ulcers, burns, and cases of hard painful cicatrix from the latter injuries, I must refer to this gen- tleman's publication, in which will also be found observations on its employment, in examples of diseased joints, inflammation of the urethra, neu- ralgia, contracted rectum, ulceration of the tongue eye, and navel of infants, and corns. In Univer- sity College Hospital, I often employ it as a means of checking the extension of erysipelas, which sometimes will not pass beyond a black line made with it. Its use in strictures, and many of the cases here specified, are further explained in other parts of this Dictionary. SINUS. A long, narrow passage, or canal, dis- charging from time to time purulent matter, and leading from some abscess, diseased bono, &c [SKIN, DISEASES OF. Diseases of the'skin are morbid alFections of the external suifiice-mem- brane of the body; sometimes involving the gene- ral structure of the skin; sometimes special clenients of its structure, as its vessels, nerves, papilitu. ... „„ u, Buucturc, as us vessels, nerves, paui :l> leaves the 8ore_flond and healthy. I he plan has | hairs, and glands; and sometimes causing derange-