OBSTRUCTIONS. INTESTINAL In cases like that reported hy Mr. Hey (Fract. Obs. p. 50.0, ed. 2), where tlie colon was entirely obstructed, surgeons Iinve been advised to cut into that bowelj and extract the foreign bodj'. Let the inexperienced admirer of curious feats with the scalpel, however, pause a little, before he ventures to make up his mind upon this matter; and, at all events, let him know, that some serious mistakes have nearly been made : " upon the very bold operation of cutting out these concretions, when lodged in the colon, proposed by Dr. Monro, senior (see Monroes Alorliid Anatomy of the Human Gidlet, ^c. p. 63), we think it our duty to state, that the di- agnosis is so difficult, that in one case, where the operation was strongly advised, it turned out, upon dissection, that the disease was a scirrJious pj/lo- riis." (See Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. xxxiii. p. 112.) Sometimes patients ultimately get well by Toiding the concretions either by vomiting or stool. Mr. C. White gives us an account of some instances of this kind: in one, fourteen con- cretions on plum-stones were discharged from the jinus; in another, twenty-one similar bodies were ejected from the stomach. When such concretions are not particularly large and indurated, they sometimes admit of .expulsion by castor-oil, oleaginous clysters, &c. But, in other instances, their extraction must be attempted, if their situation in the rectum will permit. It may be done with a pair of lithotomy forceps, or with a sort of scoop used for taking fragments of stone out of the bladder. In this manner Mr. C. White succeeded in removing two alvine concretions from the rectum, nearly as big as his fist. When the sphincter ani will not allow the concretion to be taken out, the muscle should be divided at its posterior angle. Accord- ing to Richerand, such a division does not per- manently weaken its fibres in a perceptible degree, and its paralysis never originates from this cause. {Nosogr. Chir. t. iii. p. 434, edit. 4.) Mare'schal, after a proper dilatation with a scalpel, extracted from the rectum an alvine concretion, which weighed two ounces and a half, and was of an oval form; its greater diameter being two inches eight lines, and its smaller, one inch seven lines. (See Mem. dc I'Acad. de CIdr.) Alb. Bailer, De Calculis Felleis frequentioribus, 4to. Gott. 1749. Walther, De Concrementis Terres- tribns in variis Partibus Corporis humani reper tis Fol. Acrol. 1775. Vicq d'Azyr, Hist, de la Socim Royale de M(5(l. 1779. Durande, M^moires sur les Picrres biliaires.et surl'^fficacitd du Melange rt'Etber vitriohque et d'lisprit de Tcir^binthine dans la Collque nepatique produite par ces Concr(!tions, vol. i. ties Mem. de I'Acad. de Dijon, 8vo. p. 199, an 1783. S. T. hoemmeriiiff, De Concrementis biliariis Corporis humani, Svo. Traj. ad llhen. 1795. B. Brunie, i-ssai sur les Calculs biliaircs, 4to. Paris, 1803. Four- croy, M^m. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1789. et Syst. de Connoissanccs Chim. t. x. p. 53-60. Dr. Bostock, m Nicliolsou's Journal, vol. iv. p. 137. Marcel's Uliemical History and Medical Treatment of Calcu- ions Disorders, Svo. Lond. 1817. J. F. Meckel, Ilandbuch der Pathol. Anat. b. il. p. 455, &c. Leipz! f ""'' I'«"8'eri sulla varia Origine e Na- I'l"'!- I calcolosi che vcngono talvolta espnlsi oal lubo gastrico, Memoria, 4to. Verona, 1808. James Kennedi/, An Account of a Morbid Concretion aischarRed from the Uectum, and in its Chemical Characters closely resemblinR Ambergris; see Medi- co-Chir. Journal, vol. iv. p. 177, &c. 1817. Monro'n Morbid Anatomy of the Human Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines, 8V0. Edlnb. 1811. E. fSandifort, Mus. Anat, LuRd. Bat. Leidic, Nov. 1793. Moscovim, Diss. 87 de Calcnlorum Animallum, eorumque imprimis bili- osorum Origiue et Natura. Berol. 1812. Cases in Surgery, by C. W/iite, Svo. Lond. 1770. p. 17. Philos Trans, abridjred, vol. v. p. 256, et seq. Edinb. Med Essays and Obs. vol. i. p. 301. Ibid. vol. v. p. 431'. Essays, Pliys. and Literary, vol. ii. p. 345. Leigh's Natural History of Lancashire, plate 1. fig. 4. IF. Hey's Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 507, ed. 2. Thomas, in Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. vi. p. 98. T. Brayne, An Account of Two Cases of Biliary Calculi, of extra- ordinary Dimensions; Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. Ure's Chemical Diet, articles Intestinal Concretions and Gall-stones. G. Andral, Precis d'Anatomie Pathologique, t. ii. p. 163, Svo. Paris, 1829. IMn, Lancet, vol. i. 1835—36, p. 965. Cruveilhier, in Anat. Pathol, livr. xxvi. fol. Paris, 1837. For an account of adipocirous and fatty concretions in intestines, see Elliotson's Lectures, and his papers in Med. Chir. Trans.; also Good's Study of Medicine, vol. i. p. 251, ed. 4. [INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS may be classified under two heads: those which are sudden in their operation and depend upon direct strangu- lation of some portion of the intestinal tube ; and those which are slow in their effect, and are conse- quent on morbid conditions of the coats of the bowel itself, or of disease originating in some other organ, and affecting the bowel secondarily. Under the former heading may be ranked all kinds of external hernia, and every possible variety of internal stran- gulation and hernia. For varieties of hernia (see Article Hernia.) The sources of rapid internal obstruction are very numerous ; the chief being intussusception, strangulation by bands of false membrane, by the remains of tlie oraphalo-mesenteric vessels, by an abnormal aperture, whether of the omentum, meso- colon, or mesentery through which a portion of bowel has passed, a twist of the bowel; these are especially referable to the small intestines. On the other hand, a twist of the sigmoid flexure, malignant disease of the colon, and especially of its sigmoid flexure, diseases leading to enlargement of, or out- growths from, other organs, aifections of the rec- tum, whether congenital or morbid, (see Anus, im- perforate, and Rectum, stricture of), functional derangements ; these, for the most part, may be ranked among the sources of slow obstruction, and are associated with the large intestine. At the same time, it will be readily understood that both the large and the small intestines are occasionally conjointly concerned in the production of intestinal obstruc- tion, as for example in intussusception. Having simply enumerated some of the many causes of intestinal obstruction, we will proceed to the consideration of symptoms common to many varieties before attempting to form a differential diagnosis. Symptoms.—The chief of these is obstinate con- stipation, attended sooner or later by vomiting, the c'jocta being the contents of the stoinacli, then bilious and lastly stercoraceous matter, or more probably the contents of the small intestine ; distension of the abdomen, duo to the presence partly of fluids and partly of gases within the bowel which is on the proximal side of the obstruction; pain of variable character and intensity, sometimes referred to one spot and rendered severe on pressure, at other times relieved by pressure, and dittused; occasionally paroxysmal, sometimes dull and permanent; a drag- ging rather than actual pain is expressed by the sufferer in some cases. The secretion of urine is variable in quantity, as will be hereafter explained. In accordance with the position, intensity, and nature of the obstruction will general prostration