1013 VISION. of the eyes is accompani«d by pressure of tlie muscles upon the eyeball, and generally by stoop- ing, with increased accumulation of blood in the eyes. The tunics, especially round the optic disc, and in the region of the yellow spot, being naturally weak in the myop, their curvature becomes in- creased, nnd thuir structure altered. This altera- tion occurs in every myopic eye, and makes itself most felt between the age of fifteen and twenty-five. Its chief symptom, as regards vision, is an in- crease of the myopia. In many patients this increase is accompanied by what are termed symp- toms of irritation. These may rise to inflammation. Tiiey are generally coupled with a more rapid in- crease of the myopia, though in rare instances myopia may rapidly reach a high degree without symptoms of irritation. An increase of myopia, with changes in the tiinics, is observed in every myopic eye. In some the progress is rapid, in others almost imperceptible. Slight degrees of myopia may become changed into extreme ones, while high degrees may increase but slowly; though the rule is, that the myopia increases more rapidly if it has already reached a high degree before the age of twenty. Myopics generally are aware that by the aid of spectacles vision can be improved for distant ob- jects, but often for appearance sake prefer being without such. Others occasionally use an eye- glass for looking at distant objects. Many myopic persons pass through life without ever wearing spectacles, and without experiencing inconvenience from their myopia, and retain excellent sight for reading and near-work. Experience, however, has shown that myopics who wear spectacles through- out life, are much less exposed to the morbid changes which at some period make the myopic eye very troublesome, and, in many instances, useless. Of these morbid changes the most frequent are; symptoms of irritation, muscse volitantes, and sudden or rapid impairment of vision. Vision of Myopics.—The rays coming from ob- jects which are placed beyond the furthest point of distinct vision of the myopic eye are no more brought to a focus in the retina. The objects ap- pear ill-defined, but are seen more distinctly by screwing up" the eyelids, so as to narrow the palpebral aperture and the pupil. Some myopics very much improve their vision for distance by narrowing the palpebral aperture so as to look, as it were, tlirougli a slit. The same occurs if the size of the pupil becomes diminished, as in ad- vanced age. The acuteness of vision is normal if the myop can, with the aid of a concave lens, read the test types at the normal distance ; e. g. No. 1 at 1 foot. No. 2 at 2 feet, &c. The myop sees small objects better, because he can bring tliem closer to the eyes, and therefore sees tliem under a greater visual angle. With this is connected his being able to work, read, &c., with less light than other eyes. The acuteness of vision in the highest degrees of myopia is generally imperfect, so that in a myopia of No. 1, instead of being read at S inches, can only be read at 'S inches, or not at all. Often we find one eye more myopic than the other, or in rare cases only one myopic, the other emmetropic, or even hypermetropic. One eye is often used for reading, the other for distance. DiminKlimi of tlie aculeiiess of vision.—Some myopics state that vision at no time of life was comfortable, that symptoms of irritation, difficulty of recognising objects, &c., always existed more or less. In these we must, besides the myopia, ex- pect to find some congenital anomaly, as cataract, displacement of the crystalline lens, or a trouble- some degree of astigmatism of the cornea. Impairment of vision, accompanied by symptoms of irritation, generally appear during rapid growth of the body. The acuteness of vision, as age advances, de- creases more rapidly in the myopic than it does in the normal eye. E. g., in a myopia of J it may, at the age of sixty, only amount to ^, while in a normal eye of the same age it is nearly as great. The distension of the retina, together with that of the other tunics (especially in the region of the yellow spot), if it goes beyond a certain point, is the cause not only of rapidly increasing myopia, but also of amblyopia. The elements of the retina displaced or destroyed through distension of the tunics, &c., cease to act, and patients complain of "scotomata." (See Scotoma.) The scotomata are most troublesome if situated aX or near the yellow bpot. The patient complains of " glimmering or quivering of the letters." These, during reading, with slight movements of the eyes, come to stand alternately opposite sensitive and more or less damaged elements of the retina. The complaint of not seeing some words of a sentence, or some letters of a word, is generally explained by morbid changes in corresponding parts of the retina. Small letters or objects can be seen, while larger objects are less readily recognised, through parts of them coming to lie opposite impaired portions of retina. Other causes of impairment, or of loss of vision, are ; Atrophy, Displacement of the retina, Effusion of blood, and Glaucoma. (See these articles.) Impairment of the function of the part of the retina which joins the outer margin of the optic disc is, on examin.ition, often observed in myopia, though it rarely attracts the patient's attention unless it encroaches upon the region of the yellow spot. In the latter case patients complain of a dark spot (by some described as having coloured margins) which obscures the part of an object which is situated outwards from the point of the object directly looked at. The size of the impaired portion of retina some- times corresponds exactly to the size of the crescent, but generally only partly so. It depends upon destruction of the retina adjoining the atrophic choroid. The optic nerve fibres passing over the impaired portion of retina are intact, since retinal impressions formed beyond the blind part are per- ceived. Cataract is a frequent complication of myopia^ not the uniform grey and opaque kind, but the one which appears as minute white dots, or as polar cataract, or commences with narrow Btriie appearing at the margin of tlie lens, and leaving the rest transparent sometimes for years. Partial or total spontaneous dislocation of one, or generally of both lenses, has repeatedly been observed. Muscm volitantes.—The abnormal condition of the tunics surrounding the vitreous chamber, and the changes to which tlie " vitreous" itself is sub- ject during distension of the tunics, are the causes why most kinds of muscaj may be met with iu