84 INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. liepatic calculus; move externally, those of tlie gastric. The criteria for distinguishing the several kinds of calculi from each other may be divided into such as may be termed cHermd, being derived from accidental circumstances attending the foreign body ; and others, which may be called internal, being deduced from the inherent characters be- longing to the composition and nature of these concretions. The first of these external criteria is the age of the patient. C. Stephanus, Hoffmann, Ihirande, and Morgagni all agree, that biliary calculi seldom occur, except in subjects of advanced age, and never in youth. And Plaller writes, '■'■Juniores et pucros, quanium novi, Jiunquam adjligil morbus. Morgagni met with sixtj'-one old persona who had alvine concretions, but with only eight young per- sons, not one of whom was a child, the youngest being twelve years of age, and the eldest twenty- nine. To these I may add the instance reported by Saye, in which a stone, as large as a hen's egg, was found in the gall-bladder of a'girl only twelve years of age. (See Journ. des Savans, September 1697.) The cause of this diflference is attempted to be explained by Morgagni; but, probably, a more rational explanation than that suggested by him will be found in the analysis of the bile of old and young subjects, as made by Fourcroy and other modern chemists. From these and other observations, collected by Rubini, it is rational to conclude, that when an alvine concretion is dis- charged from a young subject, the chances are that it is not a biliary one; though, if the patient be of advanced age, it is not to be inferred that the foreign substance expelled must certainly be he- patic, because gastric or intestinal concretions are common to individuals of every age. {Rubini, op. cit. p. 18.) Indeed, with the latter kind of calculi, men of advanced age, and women are said to be most frequently afflicted; children and young per- sona rarely suffering, unless the formation of such bodies has been produced by the presence of fruit- stones, or other indigestible substances, which serve as nuclei. (Richerand, Nosograplne Chir. t. iii. p. 433, ed. 4.) These concretions are also sometimes formed in patients who have been con- fined by -disease a long while in a recumbent posture. The second criterion is drawn from the symp- toms which precede or accompany the expulsion of the calculus. Sense of heaviness, irritation, and pain in the region of the liver, pam about the ensiform cartilage and navel, bilious vomiting, jaundice, and either looseness of the bowels or constipation, are the symptoms, which (especially when they frequently occur) indicate the hepatic origin of the calculus, and proceed from its passing through the narrow ducts of the liver or gall- bladder towards the intestines. The most careful observations have proved, however, that tliese symptoms are only to be depended upon when taken collectively, and that no single one gives any certain information. Also, if their presence be sufficient to prove the hepatic origin ot the calcu- lus, their absence can by no means he regarded as a proof of the concretion being ol the intestinal kind. (Rubini, p. 19.) , , , Third criterion. A calculus voided may be set down as undoubtedly hepatic, if accompanied by others unequivocally of this nature. In a case recorded by l^runner, and in another by Vater, the absence of certain symptoms in the first, and the mnguitude of the calculus in the second, created doubts whether the concretions were not more likely to be of the intestinal kind than of the he- patic. At length, the bodies liaving been opened, the presence of other similar calculi in the gall- bladders afforded adequate proof of their origin. Morgagni lays down a fourth criterion, deduced from the number of the calculi voided ; which, if very numerous, are to be considered as biliary. Rubini points out, however, the fallacy of this test; both hepatic and gastric concretions being sometimes single, sometimes in various numbers even up to a thousand ; and he refers to a case where a very large number of concretions of the gastric description were voided, as reported by Konig. The test here suggested, however, may be considered as generally valid; for the number of intestinal concretions is rarely more than two, though sometimes very considerable. (T. Thomson. See Med. Chir. Journ. vol. iv. p. 189.) I shall now follow Rubini, and notice those characters of alvine concretions, which he calls internal, and are deduced from their quality and composition, beginning with the criterion furnished by the size of the extraneous substance voided. As the biliary ducts are narrow, it is obvious that, if the calculus be above a certain size, it cannot have passed in this state suddenly through those narrow tubes, and, consequently, must be either of the gastric description, or mixed, having quitted the hepatic system while small, and afterwards increased within the alimentary canal. Unques- tionably, as Rubini admits, this criterion has con- siderable weight, especially when the discharge of the calculus has not been preceded by pain, or other symptoms indicating such violent distension, as the above ducts must have suffered from the passage of the foreign body. These are certainly capable of being dilated to a very remarkable degree, as some facts already noticed in this article suf- ficiently prove; but such dilatation can never happen without pain, irritation, and a serious train of sympathetic effects. As Rubini remarks, tins criterion will only apply to large, and not to dimi- nutive concretions. A biliary calculus of prodi- gious size was found by Mr. Brayne, of Banbury, to have passed by ulceration directly from the cavity of the gall-bladder into that of the duodenum, whence it made its way through the rest of the bowels, and was voided from the anus. (See ^rcd. Chir. Trans, vol. xii.) A second criterion is the colour of the calculus ; a test admitted by Moreau, who asserts that biliary calculi are yellow or green, and intestinal ones greyish-brown, or black. But, says Rubini, one need only look at various specimens of alvine con- cretions, and read the statements of authors who have seen a great many of them, particularly Morgagni and Soemmering, to comprehend that any criterion deduced from their colour is most fallacious, every species of them presenting great variety in this particular. And it is to he remem- bered, that the bile and the intestma fluids, whence these concretions are formed differ in colour in different individuals, according to a variety of circumstances, in health and disease. One species of hepatic calculus has a white colour, but is sometimes yellow or greenish Another is of a round or polyeonal shape, and often oi a grey