'441 PENIS, AMPUTATION OF. if the division of thej parotid duct is recent, the sides of the wound should be brought into contact, and a steady pressure maintained on that part of the cheek by means of suitable compresses, and a roller. In this manner a salivary fistula may often be prevented altogether; either the divided ends of the duct reunite, and the spittle resumes its original course into the mouth; or, what is more probable, the wound in the face heals at every part, with the exception of a small fistulous track, which serves as a continuation of the duct into the cavity of the mouth. The latter kind of cure, however, can only take place when the wound extends quite through the cheek; but the chance of the two por- tions of the duct uniting, and becoming continuous again, should always be taken in recent cases. When a salivary fistula is actually formed, a seton, introduced from the external fistulous orifice into the mouth, is a method which has justly re- ceived considerable approbation. Monro adopted it with success: he kept in the seton till the channel which it had formed had become fistulous, after which it was withdrawn; the external orifice, being touched with the argenturn nitratum, healed up, and the saliva in future flowed through the arti- ficial fistulous channel into the mouth. Desault used to practise the seton as follows. He introduced two fingers of his left hand into the patient's mouth, and placing them between the teeth and the cheek, opposite the fistula, thus kept the integuments tense and the gums from being in- jured. ■ He then introduced a small hydrocele trocar, with its canula, just before the opening of the posterior part of the duct, and pushed it through the cheek in a direction a little inclined forward. An assistant now took hold of the canula, while Desault withdrew the perforator, and passed through the tube a bit of thread into the cavity of the mouth. The canula was then taken out, and a seton, which was then fastened to the end of the thread in the mouth, was drawn from within out- ward, but not so far as to come between the edges of the external opening, where the thread alone lodged, and this was fastened with sticking-plaster to tlie outside of the cheek. The outer wound was dressed with lint and compresses. Desault used to change the seton daily, introducing regularly rather a larger one, and taking especial care not to bring it between the edges of the wound, which was afterwards covered with sticking-plaster. He en- joined the patient not to move the jaw much, and only allowed him, for some time, liquid food. In about six weeks he used to omit the seton, leaving in the thread, however, for a little while longer. This being taken away, he used to finish the cure, by touching the little aperture remaining with caustic. For keeping the opening distended, canulas were employed by Duphcnix, who used to make a suture over them; a plan objectionable, inasmuch as it was attended with the inconvenience of a solid body left in the parts, and also that of the instrument being apt to slip into the mouth. M. 13eclard cured a salivary fistula by the formation of a new passage at the inside of the cheek, by means of a leaden style, which was made to reacii the e.xcretory duct, at the point where its contiinia- tion was interrupted. The outer opening was then made a fresh bleeding wotuid, and united with the twisted suture. When the case will admit of the employment of the twisted suture, Beclard's plan is a good one, because the cure will be more speedily effected by it than the seton. (See Monro's Works. CEuvi-es Chir. do Desault, par Bichat, t. ii. p. 221. Alsoil/cHi. VAcad. de Chir. t. iii. J. B. Siebnld, Diss, sistens Ilisloriam Systemaiis Salivalis Physio- logice et Pathologice considerati, fol. Jena;, 1797. Beclard, in Archives Gen, de Med. Juin, 1823.) PAROTID GLAND, EXTIRPATION OF. (See Tumors.) PARU'LIS. (From wapii., near, and ovKoy, the gum.) An inflammation, boil, or abscess in the gums. PE'NIS, AMPUTATION OF. No part of the penis should ever be amputated on account of mortification, because the dead portion will be naturally thrown off, and the ulcer heal, without any occasion for the employment of the knife. It is for cancerous disease that it is most frequently necessary to amputate more or less of this organ^ However, before a surgeon ventures to do this, he ought to be certain that it is the substance of the penis which is incurably diseased; for tumors, ex- crescences, ulcers, and gangrenous mischief of the prepuce, sometimes present appearances which may lead an inexperienced practitioner to fancy the whole thickness of the part affected with irreme-- diable disorder, while the glans is actually in a sound state. Hence, when doubt exists, it is bet- ter to remove first the prepuce and skin, in order that the true condition of the glans may be detected. When cancer attacks the prepuce, the swelling produced in its loose and extensible texture may be such as to push the glans far backwards, and occasion an appearance as if the body of the penis were implicated, while the disease is entirely re- stricted to its investments. M. Lisfranc ascer- tained that even when cancer is situated on the dorsum of the penis, or at its root, or even on the scrotum, it first commences in the skin, and that the subjacent fibrous textures constitute for a long while an impediment to its deeper extension. The important practical inference deducible from this fact is that, in many instances, it is only necessary to remove the integuments, and the organ itself may be preserved. After dissecting away the disease seated in the integuments, M. Lisfranc. carefully removes any portion of the fibrous cover- ing of the corpora cavernosa at all changed in structure, and even cleans and scrapes the surface of the corpora cavernosa themselves. If the dis- ease is found to reach too deeply, he resorts to amputation. Amputation may be performed in the following, manner. With a long narrow bistoury a circular incision is to be made through the skin, about a finger-breadth from the cancerous part. As Cal- lisen observes, it is hardly ever requisite to draw the skin back, before it is cut; because after the corpora cavernosa are divided they retract so con- siderably that there is always a sufliciency of the integuments. As soon, therefore, as the circular incision through the skin has been made, the cor- pora cavernosa and urethra are to be cut through by one stroke of the knife, on a level with the cut edges of the integuments. The generality of sur- geons advise us to draw the skin towards the glans penis before we employ the knife. Sabatier was convinced of the inutility of saving any of it, and of the inconveniences wliich might result from its lying over and obstructing the orifice of tlie urethra. His mode of operating is also particii-