674 TALIPES ture will then be found to have healed, and gradual mechanical extension may commence. Mechanical Treatment.—The apparatus by which gradual mechanical extension is made for the purpose#f restoring the ibot to its proper posi- tion, is that still known as the Scarpa s shoe, though it has been in course of time so materially altered and modified that, as now made, U pos- sesses but little resemblance to that invented by the distinguisl.ed surgeon ^vho3e name it bears. In addition to several modifications in form and the arrangement of the straps, the footpiece of this instrument is made to move in the direction of flexion and extension, and also of inversion and aversion, by two cog-wheels placed at the side opposite the ankle-joint, and connected with the perpendicular steel bar, from the upper extremity of which a broad circular strap, containing a semi- circular steel plate on its posterior half, passes round the leg. j-c j Rate of Extension.—By ""eans of the moditied Scarpa's shoe, the foot mar be gradually brought into its natural position. The rate at which it is desirable to accomplish this should be regulated by the activity of the reparative process in the divi- ded tendon; but, practically, it is often limited by the ligamentous rigidity of the articulation. In well-nourished infants, the full length required in the divided tendo-Achillis should, according to my observation, be obtained in a fortnight, if practi- cable; in a well-nourished leg in the adult, it should be obtained in from three to four weeks; but in atrophied paralytic limbs, it should not be ob- tained in less tiian from four to six weeks. The object of gradual extension is not to elongate or stretch the new material uniting the divided extremities of tlie tendon, as generally supposed: but to regulate the length of new material, or (as it may be called) the new tendon, whilst we have the opportunity of so doing, during the period of its formation or regeneration. This important part of the treatment must therefore be left to the judgment of the surgeon. Physiological Treatment.—When the re- parative process in the divided tendon appears to be sufficiently perfect, and the required length of new tendon has been obtained—in the tendo- Achillis this may be judged of by feeling its con- tinuity—and the foot brought into its natural posi- tion by mechanical means, passive motion should be employed with the object of restoring the func- tions of the joint, and bringing the muscular and other structures into a healthy condition; to some extent also it will assist in restoring the natural form of the foot The movements required in cases of talipes equiuus are simply those of flexion and extension of the foot, which in children I direct the parents or nurse to do for a quarter of an hour two or three times a day. In cases in which the deformity has been severe, motion is at first always attended with more or less pain, which in children appears to be referred to the neighbour- hood of the tendon, or around the ankle-joint, but in adults is always referred to the anterior part of the ankle-joint; this may perhaps depend upon the edges of the articular surfaces of the bones, which become more or less denuded of their articu- p^tient may begin to use it in walking, but with some caution at first. With the object of support- ing the joint, and of preventing any accidental twisting of the foot when the ligaments are weak, it ia advisable to attach two light steel supports to the boot, each having a joint corresponding to the ankle-joint; these side-steels must extend about halfway up the leg, and be connected above by a calf-plate behind, and in front by a leather strap. When the muscular power of the leg is unim- paired, I frequently dispense with these steel sup- ports, and from the first allow the patient to use common boots, or only continue the use of the sup- ports a few weeks. In ca^es in which the anterior muscles of the leg, the extensors of the foot, are paralysed, it is necessary to have what is called a stop joint at the ankle, so contrived as to pre- vent the foot falling beyond a right angle with the leg, and the patient may be obliged to wear this as long as the paralysis lasts. The existence of paralysis in the muscles of the leg must not be considered as counter-indicating the cure of the deformity by operative means; some additional mechanical support may be re- quired in these cases to compensate for the loss ot power in certain muscles, as for example when the r-ctus muscle is paralysed, in which case it will b- necessary to continue the steel support to the waist' but by such means patients may be enabled to walk even when both legs are affected, when they have never walked befm-e, or when they have been deprived of the power of walking for many years In paralytic deformities, atrophy from disuse is superadded to atrophy from paralysis; and by curing the deformity, and bringing such limbs into use, not only is atrophy from disuse prevented, but the cure of the paralysis is also materially promoted. Galvanism, shampooing, and warm clothing must also be employed in such cases. Speaking generally, the benefit obvious to the patient will be in proportion to the seventy of the case, and the length of time the paralj sis has existed; though, as respects 'he ultimate c-on- dition of the limb, the benefit will be in propor- £n to the early period at -l-\'he operation is performed, after the contraction has become con- ^"rifere are two compound varieties of club- foot, termed equino-varus and equino-valgus. wiucn oecome more or icso uenuucu vmv... ... ^.v-.. lar cartilage, coining into contact with eacii other. In a little time, however, this disappears, and the functions of the joint are restored. When the foot has been thus far restored, the TALIPES equino-varus. This deformity is but a slight modification of talipes equiuus. When, in addition to the ordinary iLte's of equinus, there is a c-tam a"-- inversion of the anterior portion of the foo the deformity part.akes somewhat of the external £racte?s both of equinus and varus, and is there- " ermed equino-varus. The elevation of the heel s he predominant condition, but, according 0 the extent of the inversion, the patient walks more or less on the outer metatarsal bones. The anatomical deviations are essentially the U somewhat displaced inwaios, le.ivni;.