694 SKIN, DISEASES OF. being discoverable: there are such cases, but they are exceptions to the general rule. Cutaneous diseases ra;iy be cured, by local means only; but they must be slight and unimportant to be so cured: diseases for example depending on a physio- logical action only, or diseases which may have originated in a constitutional cause, but that cause liaving ceased, they would seem to be inde- pendent local affections. It would be unjust to regard them, under these circumstances, as pure local diseases. If we treat a disease by local means, and require that our patient abstain from certain articles of diet, from physical or mental exertion, we treat the case, in reality, constitu- tionally as well as locally. We give no medicines, it is true, but we eifect the same objects that medicines are intended to bring about. If we admit a patient into hospital, and place him in bed, we employ powerful constitutional medicines in the shape of rest, of repose, of wholesome diet. These curative conditions are sometimes over- looked, when we declare that certain affections are to be treated by local measures alone. Neverthe- less, the fact may be admitted, that certain cuta- neous diseases, for example, scabies, may be cured by local means only ; and also that certain cuta- neous affections, such as chronic eczema, and pityriasis may be cured by local means, without injury to the health and constitution of the patient. The great authority who taught us the depen- dence of local diseases on a constitutional cause, also directed our attention very emphatically to the digestive organs as a possible seat of derange- ment when no other symptoms of disorder were appreciable in the economy; and to these organs we must carefully look in cutaneous disease. The tongue may be unclean, the stomach slow of digestion, the bowels torpid or relaxed; there may be pain, or distension, or weight, or flatu- lence of the stomach; there may be nausea or sickness; there may be signs of an excess or of a deficiency of bile, of disordered function of the liver or of the kidneys; there may be mal- assirailation, mal-nutrition, mal-sanguification, and mal-innervation. Some or all of these symptoms may be present, and in a degree which may be decided or slight, so slight as to admit of being overlooked, and yet such as they are, they may be powerfully influential in keeping up cutaneous disease. In acute affections, for example in the erythe- mata, it may be necessary to adopt an anti- phlogistic treatment, consisting of mild purgatives and effervescent salines. In chronic affections it may be sufficient to regulate the digestive organs and promote healthful secretions. As soon as the febrile symptoms have subsided, in the former case, we must have recourse to tonics, and in chronic affections we shall probably find occasion to commence our treatment with tonics, and em- ploy mild aperients or purgatives only as acljuvan- iia to the action of our tonic remedies. Cutaneous diseases are essentially diseases of lowered tone of tlie vital functions, and are there- fore ill calculated to bear a treatment of a lower- ing nature; on the contrar}', they demand tonics at an early stage, in most instances from the first, and all those appliances are to be set in operation that will improve the condition of the blood, and increase the tone and healthy action of the nervous system. The antiphlogistic remedies the best suited to our purpose are the effervescent salines, with ammonia, sometimes with the addition of hydro- cj-anic acid, of chloric ether, or of nitric ether. The aperient antiphlogistics are, sulphate of mag- nesia, either in effervescence with citric acid and soda or potash; or associated with carbonate of magnesia and colchicum in a gouty diathesis; or in combination with a tonic, as with quinine, sul- phuric acid, and infusion of roses; or with quinine and sulphate of iron, or sulphate of zinc. The tonics which in our hands have proved the most useful, are the nitromuriatic with infusion of orange-peel or gentian, nitromuriatic acid with quinine, and sulphuric acid with quinine. In some instances it has been of service to combine a vege- table bitter with alkalies, as infusion of ealumba or bark with liquor potassae or the bicarbonate of potash. When anaemia is present, and chal}'- beates are indicated, the formulae that may be selected are the effervescing citrate of iron, the ammonio-tartrate, the tincture of the sesquichlo- ride, the sulphate, the biphosphate, the syrup of the iodide, or the citrate of iron and quinine. There are certain remedies in cutaneous medi- cine which are reputed specific; for exami)le, sul- phur, cantharides, and arsenic. Sulphur has lost much of its ancient reputation when employed in a solid form. It is a disagreeable remedy, and possesses no advantages that make it deserving of being retained among our auxiliaries. The only cases in which we still continue to employ it are those of scabies, wherein it is desirable to de- velop an atmosphere of sulphur as extensively as possible. Sulphur, when taken internally, is eli- minated from the blood through the skin, and in this way acts as a stimulant to the cutaneous tissues, and by virtue of this action, probably per- forms the office of a cutaneous tonic. And it may possess, also, other and unknown modes of opera- tion in contributing to the solidity and nutrition of the cuUneous textures. The best method of obtaining its beneficial action is by the use of the natural sulphurous mineral waters, such as those of Aix-la-Chapelle, the spas of the Pyrenees, and the spas of Harrogate in England, and Moffat m Scotland. At these places, in addition to bemg presented to the system in a condition the best suited for assimilation and inhibition by the blood, the remedy also admits of being used locally m the form of baths. The tincture of cantharides also exerts a stimu- lant and tonic influence on the skin, as well as serving to increase the action of the kidneys. It is employed only in chronic cases, and especially in alphos, and in doses of two to six minims three times a day. When prescribed for alphos, it may be combined with Fowler's solution of arsenic, and its poisonous effects must at the same tune be borne in mind. When taken for a lengthened period, it is apt, like arsenic, to cause an erythema of the skin, and, in instances where arsenic can- not be tolerated, the tincture of cantharides might be found an efficient substitute for that remedy. Arsenic has enjoyed, and continues to enjoy, a deserved reputation for the cure of cutaneous disease. Properly adn.inistered, it is harmless and certain, and lays claim to be the best cuta- neons tonic which we possess. It improves the nutrition of the skin, gives force to its circulation, and tone to the tissues and to the cutaneous