4H OVARIOTOMY. it will generally be advisable to induce premature labour. The consideration of the indications for and against ovariotomy, as well as the prognosis, were summed up hj the writer as follows, some years ago :— " The probable result of ovariotomy can be csii- niaUd with far greater accuracy by a knoivledge oj the yenerul condition of the patient than by the size atid condition of the tumor.''' (Vol. xl. of the Aledico-Ghirurgical Transactions.) When ovariotomy is decided upon, certain pre- cautionary arrangements and preparations will prove useful and assist in securing a favourable result. If the patient is anffimic, weakened from the progress of the disease, perhaps overtaxed by the fatigues of a journej-, or suffering from an ac- cidental indisposition, her general health must be attended to, and the operation postponed until by the observance of general hygienic and dietetic rules she is brought to a fit condition to undergo operation. The place where.the operation is performed ought to be healthy, cceteris paribus, the country would therefore be preferable to town. Better results have been obtained in private houses and small hospitals, where the patient occupies a room alone, than in large general hospitals, where she shares a ward with other patients. The sick-room should be well provided with means of keeping up continual suffi- cient ventilation, without producing draughts, and the temperature should be regulated by a fire. In the surgical ward in the Samaritan Hospital one of Mr. Gauntlet's chronometrical thermometers is used, by which the temperature of the twenty-four hours is self-recorded. If the operation be per- formed in a private house, all unnecessary furniture should be removed from the sick-room. Instead of a bed with heavy draperies, two iron bedsteads on castors should be provided, so narrow that the patient can be reached equally well from either side, and lifted from one bed into the other if desirable. A horse-hair mattress is preferable to a feather-bed, being cooler and firmer. The covering ought to be light. Hot-water bags, a supply of hot water, ice, brand}^, champagne, beef-tea, and other comforts of the sick-room, ought to be in readiness. An elastic catheter and a small india-rubber enema-bottle, hold- ing one to two ounces, with an elastic tube, lint, adhe- sive plaster, cotton wool, small bags of lint about two inches square, filled with some deodorising powder —that made after Dr. Skinner's formula, viz. five per cent, of oil of tar with ninety-five per cent, of powdered calcined oyster shells, is the best which the writer has met with—a spare flannel belt, about half a dozen blanket-pins, scissors, and a pair of dressing-forceps will complete the list of necessaries for the sick-room. The patient ought to have her rectum cleared by an injection of warm water a few hours before the operiition, and should not have any food at least four hours previously, in order to avert chloroform sickness. She should wear her ordinary night-dress, a loose flannel dressing-gown, and warm stockings. The operation should be performed in an airy room, the temperature of which should not be below G5° Fahr., but need not be raised to a de- gree uncomfortable to either patient or surgeon. Some earlier operators had the room heated and moistened by steam, but the writer has shown that this is unnecessary and injurious. The patient should be placed in a horizontal position on a firm narrow couch, opposite a window admitting good light, and well protected by flannel everywhere except the abdomen and face. Her abdomen ought to be covered by a waterproof sheet, with an opening about eight inches long and six inches wide in the middle of the inner surface, with a coating of adhesive plaster of about an inch in width all round the opening, so that it may adhere to the skin and prevent .any exposure of the patient, while her body and clothing are kept perfectly dry and clean. A table on which the instruments are laid out is placed near the window and the right hand of the operator. List of Instruments.—Two scalpels, a probe- pointed bistoury, a broad director, a tenaculum, several pairs of artery forceps, scissors, half a dozen bull-dog forceps, a syphon-trocar, clamps of different sizes, an ^craseur, large guarded clamps for the use of the actual cautery, straight needles, threaded with fine but strong silk, ligature silk, a needle-holder, and either cautery irons or the gas or galvanic cautery. These will be the most ne- cessary instruments ; the emergencies of the case, however, and the individual views of the operator will suggest their choice and modification. A large vessel for collecting the ovarian fluid, several basins, a sufficient supply of cold and hot water, towels, and soft, perfectly pure sponges ought to be in readiness. Besides the already mentioned dressing appara- tus, some perchloride of iron, either in the solid form or in saturated solution, should be provided, to apply to the strangulated portion of pedicle left when it is decided to trust to the clamp. The patient should be spared any alarm likelj' to be caused by the preparations for the operation. When it is to take place in the room in which she has to remain, she should not be brought into it until everything has been properly arranged. The light of the room ought to be subdued, the table with the instruments covered with a towel, and no other persons should be present than the operator, the assistant who gives chloroform, and the nurse. As soon as the patient is under the influence of the chloroform, the other assistants and visitors are admitted into the room, and each takes his allotted place, having been previously instructed as to his duties. If the operation is performed in an hospital theatre in presence of a large number of students, it would be more humane to narcotise the patient before bringing her into the theatre. The patient having been placed on a narrow table, her legs covered with blankets, and the waterproof sheet already described properly ad- justed, the assistant to whose care the adminis- tration of chloroform is entrusted takes his place at the head of the patient. The writer either uses a mask made of muslin or domett stretched over a frame of thick wire, on which the chloro- form is sprinkled and which allows a free passage of air, or be avails himself of Mr. Clover's services, who uses his well-known apparatus. But it may happen that the use of chloroform is contra- indicated. In such cases Dr. Richardson's method of producing local auiESthesia by ether spr.iy may be tried. In a case operated upon by the writer ui the Samaritan Hospital (see Med. Times and Gazette, June 2,18(i6) chloroform was considered dangerous,