1837. A. Donne, Reclierches microscoplques sur la Nature des Mucus, &c. Paris, 1837. [Georye Gulliver, Researches in Suppuration, Pliil. Mag., Sept. 1838. John A. Si/moiHh; Provincial Med. Trans., vol. viii. 1840, gives a good summary of HenM on Pus Epithelium, &c., from Hufeland's Journal, 1838. Voyel, Ueber Eiter und Eiterunfr, Er- langen, 1838. Hubert Mui/o, Med. Gaz., Oct. 19, 1839, On the Nature of Pus (Supposed Poison to Blood). George Gulliver, Med. Gaz., Uec. 7, 1829, p. 415, On Pus Globules of Animals in relation to lilood Cor- puscles. John Davtj, Researches, &c., Lond. 1839. Lewis Maudl, Anatbmie microscopique, 1839. Le- tellier, L'Exp^rience, Oct. 1840, On Composition of Pus. David Griibii, M.D., Morphology of Pa- thological Fluids, Vindobone, 1840, Trans, by Dr. Goodfellow in Microscopical Journal, Sept. and Oct. 1842. 567i«ce/-, Chemische und Microscopische Un- tersuchungen, Heidelberg, 1843, p. 97 (Analysis of Pus). A. Donne, Cours de Microscopie, Paris, 1844. Wrighl, Medical Times, Jan. 11, 1845. Simon's Annnal Chemistry, by G. E. Day, M.D., Sydenham Society, 1846, vol. ii. Hewson, W., F.R.S., Experi- mental Enquirer, part ii., Lond. 1774; Works of, edited by George Gulliver, Sydenham Society, Lond. 1846. Bennet, Med. Gaz , vol. xxi., Putriditv of Pus; Hughes Bennett, ed., Med. and Surg. Jour- nal, On Intlaramation as a Process of Abnormal Nu- trition, ed. 1»44, Dec. 1842. See also works quoted in preceding article. Paget, Lectures on Pathology, &c., Med. Gaz., 1849-50; see also references in preceding article. Fordos, Comptes Rendus hebdomadaires des Stances de I'Acad^mie, etc., torn. 51, Paris, 1860, p. 215, Recherches sur la matifere colorante des sup- purations bleues, etc. Dr. E. F. von Gorup Besanez, Lehrbuch der physiologisclien Chemie, Braun- schweig, 1862, vol. iii. Cohnheim, in Virchow's Archiv,, vol. xli.; see also Med. Times and Gaz., vol. i. 1868. See, further, the works of Gulliver, Paget, Virchow, J. Hughes Bennett, Lionel S. Beale, Hen- nighee, H. Lebert, Kuhne, whose titles are given in the preceding article.] SURGERY^ or CHIRURGERY (from x^'p, the hand, and epyoy, work), has been sometimes represented to be that branch of medicine which principally effects the cure of diseases by the ap- plication of the hand alone, the employment of instruments, or the use of topical remedies. Such definition, however, conveys but a very imperfect idea of the nature of this most useful profession, and, as applied to the present state of practice, cannot be said to be correct. It might, indeed, be applicable to that short unfavoured period of surgery, some centuries ago, when its practice, was denounced by the Council of Tours, as unfit for the hands of priests and men of literature, and when the surgeon became little better than a sort of professional servant to the physician; the latter alone not only having the sole privilege of pre- scribing internal medicines, but even that of judg- ing and directing when surgical operations should be performed. Then the subordinate surgeon was only called upon to execute, with his knife or his hand, duties which the more exalted physician did not choose to undertake; and, in fact, he visited the patient, did what was required to be done, and took leave of the case, altogether under the orders of his master. In modern times, however, the good sense of mankind has disco- vered that surgery is deserving of an eminent rank amongst those arts and sciences which ought to be cultivated for the benefit of society at large- that the man who is not himself accustomed to the performance of operations cannot be the best judge of their safety and necessity; and that, in every point of view, the surgical practitioner merits as much favour and independence, in the exercise of his profession, us he whose avocation is confined to physic. Hence, the surgeon is SURGERY. now exclusively consulted about many of the most important diseases to which the human body is liable. Being no longer under the yoke of the physician, he follows the dictates of his own judg- ment and knowledge; he prescribes whatever medicines the case may demand, internal as well as external; and under the encouragement of an enlightened age, he sees his profession daily be- coming more scientific, more respected, and more extensively useful. Surgery, as Mr. Lawrence has stated, is a branch of that science and that art which have diseases for their object. This science, considered generally, embraces the physical history of man. It investigates the construction of the human body, and its living actions; it inquires into the pur- poses executed by each part, and into the general results of their combined exertions; it observes the human organisation under all the various mo- difications impressed on it by surrounding influ- ences of all kinds ; and it draws from these sources the rules for preserving health and re- moving disease. The practical application of these rules constitutes the art of healing, or rather of treatwg disease (for, in many cnses, we are un- able to heal, and do not even attempt it), while the assemblage of facts and reasonings, on which these practical proceedings are grounded, make up the science of medicine. By some writers, physic is said to have for its object the treatment of internal, surgery that of external, diseases. This definition, however plau- sible it may at first appear, can only be received with numerous exceptions in regard to modern practice: for instance, necroses of the shafts of bones, psoas abscess, stone in the bladder, po- lypi and scirrhus of the uterus, strictures of the oesophagus, urethra, and rectum, an extravasation of blood within the skull, in consequence of acci- dental violence, are universally allowed to be strictly surgical cases; yet no man in his senses would call these disorders external. As Mr Lawrence has pertinently observed. Nature has connected the outside and inside so closely, that we can hardly say where one ends and the other begins. She has decreed that both shall obey the same pathological laws ; and has subjected them to such powerful mutual influences that we cannot stir a step in investigating the diseases of either, without reference to the other How deep would the domain of surgery extend* according to this view ? Half an inch, or an inch ' The entrance of the various mucous membranes presents a series of puzzling cases ; and the dis- tribution of diseases in these situations, between the two branches of the profession, is quite ca pricious. How far is the surgeon to be trusted » He IS allowed to take care of the mouth. Where is he to stop ? At the entrance of the fauces—in the pharynx—or in the oesophagus? Inflamma- tion and ulceration of the throat from syphilis belong to the surgeon ; catarrhal affection of the same membrane to the physician. Polypus and ulceration of the nasal membrane are surgical • coryza is medical. The affections of the bones and joints have been given to the surgeon ; yet thev can hardly be called extern;il parts. In hernia and aneurism, there is external tumour ; but it is produced by displacement or disease of organs that are quite internal. " When we look to the nature and causes of