first observed by Koeliler, and afterwards by Dr. J. Thomson, in an extensive series of experiments, wliich he made with Dr. Alexander M'Donald, and which were pnblished in the latter gentleman's inaugural dissertation in 1799. (See Thomson on Ii>Jiammatiou,^.'d93.') Mr. Kussell was not aware of the regeneration ofthe medulla; for, he states, that, after the absorption, or removal of the sequestrum, tlie cavity of the new bone becomes filled up with granulations, which are at length converted into bonymatter. Thus, he says, thenewbone differs from the original one, in being solid, instead of hollow. [Hunter also was unacquainted with the fact, that the medullary canal may be restored. ( ]Vo7-ks hy Falmer, vol. i. p. 526.) Authorities are now agreed that newly formed bone, which at first is solid, becomes cellular in its interior—according to Rokitansky, by a gradual enlargement of the Haversian canals—and, after the lapse of a con- siderable time, a cavity is formed ; this is lined by a dplicate membrane, and is filled with medulla. This process has been observed in the osseous deposit, which usually is found occupying the medullary canal of a long bone after fracture, and the continuity of which is thus slowly restored: it has also been seen in bones that have been reproduced.] In the case, mentioned in the fifth volume ofthe Aleiii. de I'A cad. de C/nr.,o{ a man whose clavicle was removed, and who died shortly afterwards, a ne w bone had been formed, which differed from the origind one neither in length nor solidity, but only in shape, being flatter and not so round. Mr. Mayo believes, however, that, in the ordi- nary course of a necrosis of the shaft of a cylin- drical bone, the external layers alone are destroyed. "At all events (he observes) the cortex alone comes away as a sequestrum. The cancellous struc- ture, which it contained, whether dead or living, is absorbed before the sequestrum becomes detached. One may suppose, that it does not die, for two reasons: first, the cancellous structure has more vascularity and vitality than the cortex, and might be expected to resist an influence, which would de- stroy the latter; secondly, if the cancellous structure dies with the cortical part, where is the agent which removes it?" {Pathologij, p. 30.) It cannot be doubted, however, that when necrosis aftects the whole thickness of a bone, it usually in- cludes at once the walla and the medullary texture; and it is difficult to conceive how the cancellated tissue can possibly Jive within the sequestrum itself: whilst its not being found within a sequestnim, that comprises the whole shaft of a cylindrical bone, must be received, I think, as an unequivocal proof that it is not spared. At the Royal College of Surgeons, in 1837, Mr. Stanley exhibited a drawing of a remarkable exception to the general rule of destruction of the medullary texture, when the walls of a cylin- drical bone perish. It was a case, in which, in consequence of the application of nitric acid to a phagedenic ulcer of the leg, the whole of the periosteum, covering the tibia, became inflamed Here the walls had become necrosed, but the medullary texture had retained its vitality. (On cit. p. .02.) ^ •'' The reparative process in bone, after its ro- moval by disease or injury, is merely a modifica- tion of that which takes place in the union of frac- tures, and the sources of reproduction are the same m ea«h. (See Fractures.) Weidmann remarks, NECROSIS. that the power which efifects this reproduction is the same that nourishes and supports the bones in health. Many able men have ascribed the whole work of the regeneration of bone to the periosteum [C. Havers; Diihamd, Mim. de CAcad. des Sci' cnces, 1739. 1741, 1742. 1747. Fougerouc,, Mini sur les Os; Paris, 17CO. Sweneke, Harlcme'r Abhandlumien, i. th. p. 39. Berlin, [Ostioloc/ie. Marigucs, Abhandlung von der Natur und Erxeu- gung der Callus, p. 199.) [Haller, {Elim. Phjsiol. t. viii. p. 352.) a.id Dethloef, {Diss, exliihens Ossiiim Calli generati- onem, Goett. 1753.) thought that the material of repair was 'lymph and fibrine effused from the medullary tissue of the bone ; whilst, according to Duhamel, the new bone was formed by ossification of the deeper layers of the periosteum. Bordenave {Mem. sur les Os. p. 227.) considered that the regeneration of bone was effected by a plastic exu- dation from its own vessels, as is the case with the soft parts ; this becoming organized by an exten- sion of the primitive vessels of the bone into it, was ultimately converted into osseous tissue.] Callisen {Colled. Hafn. t. ii. p. 187), Tenon {Mem. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1758, p. 415), and many others, have seen a part of the new produc- tion spring up from the substance of the old bone ; a thing, saj's Weidmann, which one is also led to' believe by the fact, that, when the whole shaft of a long bone is affected with necrosis, the epiphy- ses, which remain sound and untouched, unite and grow to the new bone, though no periosteum exists in the situation of the union, [Bichat is of the same opinion, that the old bone plays an important part in the formation of the new, and Larrey also, who cites the bony union of the patella—a bone only partially covered by periosteum—after fracture, as a proof of this theory, which is further substantiated by the injection of callus by Soemmering through the vessels of the bone. {Journ. Complem. du Did. des Sciences Med. voh viii, 1820.) Liston disputes the reparative power ofthe peri- osteum, urging that the newly formed osseous sub- stance IS never found adhering to that membrane, but always to the old bone. {Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. 78.)] Paletta records a case, in which five inches of the tibia were regenerated ; and he concludes that the new osseous substance was not formed from the periosteum, which had been destroyed, but from the remaining portion of healthy bone. (See Excreitaliones Fathologica; 4to, Mcdiolani.) J^r. R. Knox has also seen an instance of caries of the trochanter major, where nature had at- tempted to repair the injury by a secretion of new- bony matter round the ulcerated part of the bone, and where the new osseous substance ap- peared to be formed by the vessels of the old bone, the periosteum remaining perfectly sound and unchanged. His remarks are .all in favour of the doctrine, which refers the production of new bone to the vessels of the remaining portion of living bone. (See Edinb, Med, and Surg. .Journ, vol. xviii.) [Some attribute the apparent regeneration of bone by the periosteum, not to that membrane, but to minute particles of the old bone which, they aflirm, are always detached with the periosteum from the original sliaft—whether the iseparation