443 PERIOSTITIS. tatiou of the prepuce. (See Earle's Obs. in Med. Chii: Trans, vol. xii. p. 287, &c.) Almost all the cases of cancer of the penis recorded by Mr. Hey were attended with a congenital phimosis. The same complication also existed in another ex- ample, in which Boyer performed amputation of the penis, in La Charity, on account of a cancerous affection of the part. The examples under M. Roux were likewise accompanied with a natural phimosis. Hence this author considers such a state of the prepuce particularly conducive to cancer of the penis, and earnestly enjoins surgeons to recommend their patients to have the first in- convenience rectified, so that no risk of the other more serious affection may be encountered. (See Parallele de la Chirurgie Angloise, ^c. pp. 306, 307.) In two out of three cases, which were con- sidered to be cancerous, and for which amputation was done under ray notice, phimosis did not exist; yet I believe that the statements of Hey and Roux are correct. [Before ulceration has taken place the stony hardness of the cancerous tubercle, or infiltration, forms the most reliable diagnostic sign of cancer of the penis. Circumscribed syphilitic indurations, however, occasionally so much resemble cancerous tubercles, that I have seen the prepuce removed under the supposition that the affection was can- cerous. A subsequent secondary eruption soon proved the true nature of the malady. In the substance of the corpora cavernosa, also, I have several times met with circumscribed deposits of lymph, so hard and persistent that the progress of the case alone could be relied upon to determine the non-malignant nature of their character. The disease usually manifests itself in the fore part of the organ, and consequently admits of re- moval by amputation; yet I have met with a marked case in which the cancer commenced as far back as the bulb of the urethra, the penis anterior to the pubes being entirely free from disease. The case occurred in the practice of Mr. Langmore, of Sussex Gardens. It appeared to be an obstinate and anomalous case of stricture of the urethra in the usual situation, close to the bulb. The peculiarity of the case consisted chiefly in the rapidity with which the stricture narrowed, in spite of the passage of instruments, and in the diffi- culty of introducing them v/ith any certainty. In the course of a few months the urethra became so constricted that no instrument could be made to enter the bladder, and complete retention of urine supervened. Under these circumstances Mr. Cutler and myself were consulted, and gave our joint opinion that perineal section should be per- formed without delay. An incision was accord- ingly at once made in the median line, through the Structures of the perineum, which were found ir- regularly thickened and indurated, and after some difficulty the urethra was opened behind the ob- struction. During the operation the nature of the affection was not detected, and a favourable termi- nation of the case was hoped for. The distressing symptoms depending upon the obstruction to the es- cape of the urine soon disappeared after the opera- tion, and the patient began to'improve somewhat in health and spirits. The wound, however, did not heal, but assumed a very unhealthy aspect, and ultimately presented all the worst characters of cancerous ulce- ration, of which the patient died in a few rnontlis, the rectum having ultimately become implicated in the disease. Mr. South also alludes to a case of cancer of the penis affecting the posterior portion of the organ. " I remember," he says, " one very remarkable case, in which, under favourable cir- cumstances, the younger Cline removed the whole penis as low down as the membranous part, by de- taching it as far as possible from the pubic bones in front of the'scrotum; and then making a cut into the perineum, he tiuned the penis down through it, and completely scraped oft' the crura to their very origins from the bones, and removed them and the bulb, leaving only the membranous part of the penis ; but the wound in a few weeks took on a cancerous disposition, spread rapidly, and de- stroyed the patient probably quicker than if he had been left alone." (Translation of Chelius by South, vol. ii. p. 801.) Some surgeons classify cases of cancer of the penis into scirrhous and epithelial. Without ven- turing to assert that ordinary scirrhous cancer never invades the penis, my experience would lead me to say that epithelioma was almost constantly the form in which it appears in this organ.] Mr. Travers has given an excellent description of what he terms the warty cauliflower fungus of the prepuce, arising from epithelioma, within which the glans is found at first shrunk and entire, but afterwards diseased and incorporated with the fungus. He has seen in other instances the ulce- ration confined to the glans, and the inflamed prepuce thrown back, and discoloured from exces- sive distension; and although he never met with a Jew who was the subject of cancer of the penis, he operated on a man who had been cut for phi- mosis ten years previously, in whom a pimple on the fraenum ulcerated, and assumed the form of cauliflower fungus, completely environing the glans, while the latter remained sound. The pain of this disease is very acute at intervals. There is much tumefaction of the organ, and a great hardness extending along the corpora cavernosa and septum penis. The glands in the groin are as often unaf- fected as not. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii, p. 337.) In University College is a penis taken firom an old man, a patient of mine. The pre- paration exemplifies many of the circumstances described by Mr. Travers, especially the great induration of the corpora cavernosa, and the en- largement of the organ, [As in other cases of cancer, the only reliable treatment is complete ablation by the knife, by the ^craseur, or by escharotics.] If the penis be amputated at some distance be- yond the disordered part, and before the disease has long existed, the patient may escape a return of it; but, according to Mr. Travers, this is a rare instance of good fortune. Slight symptomatic en- largement of the glands should not be accounted a bar to the operation. On the other hand, the ab- sence of all glandular affection is no seciuity against its return and fatal termination in a few months. This disease, after-amputation of the penis, may reappear on the stump, or in the inguinal glands. (See Travers, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol, xvii, p. 340.) (See Cancbu.) PERIN^'UM, FISTULA OF, (See Fis- tula IN pERINyEO.) PERIOSTITIS. Inflammation of the perios- teum. Is Bomctimcs an idiopathic affection, ex- cited by cold or mechanical injuries; sometimes