within a bag of varying thickness, together v/ith l.air, of the shape and often of the colour of the eyebrows. Tliese may be iound attached to tlie sac, or be curled up and mixed with the sebaceous matter. Old tumors of this kind contain a yellow oily substance enclosed in an often extremely thin bag of fibrous tissue. The tumor is the less moveable the more extensive its adhesion is to the periosto of the orbit. Treatment.—The tumor has to be removed by operation, which, if performed thoroughly, is always successful It rarely suffices to puncture the cyst, and to cauterise its interior. Chloroform should be administered, the operation being a tedious one, and accompanied with troublesome bleeding. Two assistants are required. The in- cision, if possible, should be made parallel with the margin of the orbit, by raising the skin over the tumor into a fold and dividing it. It should always be sufficiently long to give easy access to the tumor. If the latter is large a cross incision is required, or an eliptical one if the skin is ad- herent to part of the tumor, so as to carry it near the adhesion. To avoid a return it is necessary to remove the walls completely, which should be done by carefully dissecting out the tumor without open- ing; it. A forceps to fix the tumor, and a cataract knife, or better, strong narrow-bladed pointed scissors, are used for the dissection, while a con^ tinuous good view of the tumor must be obtained by having the large skin incision kept open, and the blood prop-rly sponged away. After having separated the adhesions of the tumor to the skin and other soft parts up to its greatest circumference we separate its attachment to the perioste, which some- times is hroad, sometimes has the form of a pedicle. The white sebaceous matter escapes, if the tumor has been opened during the operation, which ren- ders the complete removal difficult. Portions left behind should be touched with ftitrate of silver. Incisions through the suspensory ligament, some- times with removal of portions of fat of the orbit, may readily be avoided by dissecting close to the walls of the tumor. Tlie wound being deep and lacerated, some suppuration generally follows; lint dipped into cold water is applied as frequently as it is pleasant to the patient. We may, to hasten union, insert one or two sutures near the corners of the incision. The wound heals in from five to seven weeks. The cicatrix is scarcely per- ceptible, and no other disfigurement follows the operation. N/Evus about the eyelids occurs frequently. One or several may be found in the same eyelid; or it may extend from the eyelid into the orbit. The appearance and symptoms are similar to those which r)ccur in other parts of the body. It gene- rally, if left alone, increases to a certain size, and then remains stationar}', or becomes smaller. Treatment.—Ligature or injections with the tincture of perchloride of iron have been followed by sloughing of the eyelid. The safest and quickest, the size and situation of the ntevus per- mitting, is completely to remove the iiebvus by ope- ration. Next to this Clin be roconmiended the insertion of stout silk threads, previously moistened with tlio tincture of perchloride of iron. Due regard must bo paid to the portion of the eyelid wu operate upon, to avoid disfigurement displacement, <^c. ' 805 Lupus has been observed, in various stages in the eyelids, either extending from the face or com- mencing in the lids (generally along their margin). Its extension to the eye or to the orbit has caused death in several instances. It differs from epithe- lial cancer by generally appearing in young persons of otherwise good health, by spreading over large surfaces (dilTerent stages of the lupus being present simultaneously) by its peculiar star-shaped cica- trices, by the absence of pain, and by its cura- bility. Syphililio vleers are, as a rule, primary, and commence as infiltrations at the margin of the lids. Syphilitic nodes, from their chronicity, hardness, and, if ulcerating, from the dirty appearance of the ulcer, can hardly be mistaken for cancer nodes. The local application of mercury is found of great use. Cancer of the Eydids.—The medullary and melanotic form are rare primarily. Small hard nodules of both forms, springing from the margin of the tarsus, have been removed by excising a V-shaped portion of the entire thickness of the lid including the cancer. Both forms are not unfre- quently secondary, extending upon the lids from the eyeball or orbit. Epithelial cancer appears in two forms—either as so-called alveolar cancer, or under the form of small roundish hard nodules. The nodules situ- ated in the skin of the lid, or over the lacrymal sac, extending from the inner canthus towards the nose at a later period become covered with yellow crusts, and overrim by enlarged veins. Beneath the crusts we find an ulcerating surface with irregular outline, and everted margins secreting but little pus, &c. The alveolar cancer appears either as a defined tumor, or as ill-defined infiltration of the skin. The latter form is less common, and occupies the skin, or commences beneath it, and is painful to the touch. The dark red, nearly flat surface of the cancerous infiltration, after some weeks becomes ulcerated;. crusts appear with an offensive' purulent discharge. The edges of the ulcer are swollen, roundish, and nodular. Epithelial cancer has been mistaken for lupus. It may exist for years. In the alveolar form the neighbouring glands are much sooner affected. Cases have occurred in which the eyeball was destroyed by numerous attacks of inflammation in several inducing perforation of its tunics, escape' of the vitreous, and shrinking. Treatment hy operation.—The cancer, if small confined to the skin, and in a strong patient, may be removed by operation. The less of substance is covered by skin transplanted from healthy neigh- bouring parts. A much more rapid progress of the cancer must be expected, if an operation be performed, once the glands are implicated. /Jy the appliaiiion of a paste made with starch and chloride of zinc.—Care must be taken that the paste docs not touch the eyeball. A layer of jiaste is spread over the surface of the ulcer, its til margin, and over a narrow strip of the adjoining healthy skin, sufBciontly thick to hide these parts from view. The paste temporarily destroys the growth, and a cicatrix forms. The apjilication is repeated whenever any part of the margin of the ulcer shows an incliiuition to oxteinl or when fresli nodes appear. The geiu'ral health of the patient sliMiiKl be well supported.