UTERUS, IN ivductioii by taxis, to push in one horn of Ihu uterus. Dr. T. Oiiilhud Thoraiis reduced one case in a. very reinarkiiblo maimer. The uterus was lifted up so that the operator could feel the cervical ring against tiie abdominal wall. He then cut down in the median line as for an ex- ploratory incision in ovariotomy ; then he inserted his linger into the uterine sac, and found there was no adhesion. He then inserted a steel dilator made on the principle of n glove-stvetcher into the cervix, and expanded the blades. '' The dilata- tion was easy and rapid;" but contraction returned as soon as the dilator was withdrawn. The uterus was drawn down, and one horn pushed in, then the other, and the organ was reduced. The abdominal wound was closed by sutures. The patient quite recovered. In cases where neither reduction nor ablation can be attempted, hajmorrhage and other discharges may be restrained by lotions of tannin, alum, per- chloride or persulphate of iron, or of carbolic acid; and probably some advantage may be derived, by compressing the uterus, by wearing an air-pessary in the vagina. Six different modes of dealing with chronic in- version iiave been tried with the following results in the cases I have been able to examine :— 1. By ligature alone : Of these twenty-six were successful, ten unsuccessful. Of the unsuccessful eight died, and two recovered without extirpation. 2. By ligature and excision : nine were suc- cessful, three unsuccessful. These three all died. 3. By excision simple : Three were successful, two died. 4. By sustained solid pressure there have been several successful cases. 5. By sustained elastic pressure, in eight cases the uterus was restored, in seven of them recovery was perfect, one died, being already beyond hope. In three or four cases reported the pressure was given up. G. By forcible taxis : Six successful cases are reported, four failed, all of them dying. . In appreciating the relative merits of these different operations, it must be remembered that the highest success attained by ligature or excision is achieved at the cost of mutilation; the woman is unsexed ; and failure commonly means death. Tiie history of forcible taxis is disastrous. It is true, that success restores the woman to her former integrity, but the penalty of failure to return the uterus is not nnfrequently death. The parts will not sustain more than a certain amount of violence without laceration; much force is neces- sary; and it is impossible to restrict with nicety the force employed within safe limits. Sustiiined solid or elastic pressure is free from the objections that siuTound the preceding methods. Success means restoration to integrity; and failure does not mean death or injury; it simply leaves the patient in statu quo, and in a condition to be treated with every prospect of success by the ad- juvant method of cervical incisions.] lluhcrt Barnes, M.D. F. li. Wnchter, T)e Prolapsu et Inversione Uteri, Hula', 1743. Act. Nutura; (Jur., vol. vi. ohs. 107. uterus feliciter extirpiitus. Ntiiiclie, Oes iMaladios de l'Ut('Tii8, 8vo. I'liris, 181G. O.siandcr, None Dcnk- yunligkeiten, I b. p. -.m. C. /<'. Pi-ici, Von der Uinkelii iinif, oder oi<;cntlichen Inversliine der Gcbiir- niiilter, iMuiister, IKOt. fia/in/icr, M6(\. oper. t. li. " . Neiimliam, On the Symptoms, Causes, and 'I'reat- nient of hivcrsio Uteri, with a Iliitory of the suc- /■ERSION OF. 879 cessful Exlirpiition of that Organ, dm-ing the Chronic Stage of the Disease, 8vo. Lond. 1818. J. Windsor, Ohs. on Inversion of the Uterus, with a Case of successful Extirpation of that Orj^an, Med. Chlr. Trans, vol. x. p. 358, &c. Deiimaii's Plates of a Polypus, with an Inversion of the Uterus, 1801. Dr. Bailtie'a Series of Engravings, &c., fasc. 9, tab. 5.' Siebuld's Journ. b. v. p. 2, s. 406. Cteghorn, in Med! Communications, vol. il.; a chronic case E. B. Herzog, De Inversione Uteri, 4to. Wirceb. 1817. Sir C. Mansfield Clark, Obs. on the Diseases of I'emales, attended with Discharges, 18H-2I. Dewees's Mid- wifery, Philadelph. Denman's Midwifery, with Notes by Professor I'rancis, of New York, 3rd ed. 182y. lianis/iot/iain's Midwifery, 1821. Riiysch, Observa- tiones. Sabatier, Meniolres sur les deplacements de la Matrice et du Vagin, M6m. del'Acad. deChirurgle, 1757. Deleurye, De Utero inverse, 175S. Levref, Polypes de la Matrice, 1759. Puzos, Tralt6 des Accouchements, 1759. Lerou.v, Sur les pertes de sang des femines en couches, 1776. A. PeWf, Traits des Maladies des Femmes (formally denied its exist- ence), 1779. Wrisberg, Commentatio de uteri post- partum naturalem resectione non lethali, 1788. M, Sajctorpli, De diversis uteri inversi speciebus, in Act. lleg. Soc. Med. Havnens. 1792, and in Gesamm. Schriften, Copenhagen, 1803. Daillez, Pr(5cis des lecons de Baudelocque sur le renverseraent de la Matrice, 1803. Stark, Archiv. Band II., gives a collection of 22 cases. G. Forbes, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxv. Tuler Smith, Ibid. 1858. Robert Barnes, Ibid. 1870. Chas. A. Lee, Amer. .Journ. of Med. Sc. 1860 (an useful dieest of cases). J. G. Crosse, On Inversio Uteri, 1844-47 (the most valuable essay on the subjecl). Boivin et Duges. Lnzzati, Annali Univ. di Med. 1865. Marion Sims, Notes on Uterine Surgery, 1866. McCiintock, Diseases of Women, 1863. Labrevoit, Essai sur les Inversions ut^rines, 1855. A. Courty, Traite pratique des Mala- dies de I'Utdrus, 1866. Scanzoni, Beitrage, 1868. T. Gaillard Thomas, American Journal of Obstetrics, 1 p:fin 1 ' UTERUS, POLYPI OF. (See Polypus.) UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OF {Hypertro- phy and Atrophy of). The womb, situated in the upper and middle part of the pelvis, is but im- perfectly secured in its natural place by means of its broad and round ligaments ; hence it sometimes descends into the lesser cavity of the pelvis, so as to pass more or less down the vagina, or even pro- trude beyond the labia. The first case is the in- complete; the second, the complete, prolapsus uteri. In the first form of the disease, where the uterus has not passed down so low as to protrude exter- nally, some of the complaints which the patient experiences depend upon pressure of the displaced viscus upon parts unaccustomed to it, particularly the bladder and rectum; while other incoii- veniences arise from the tension of the ligaments destined to retain the organ in its natural position. These last grievances are chiefly a sense of hcavi- ness in the pelvis, and a dragging pain in tho loins; symptoms which are aggravated when the patient sits up or walks about, but diminish when she remains in bed, though, as the disease, when neglected, scarcely ever fails to grow worse, thov rarely subside altogether. However, such amend- ment actually sometimes happens, in consequunco of the parts becoming gradually habituated to their change of situation. When the disease comes on with great suddenness, tho symptoms are remarked to be much more severe than when it takes place slowly ; in the first case, long-contin\ied syncope, pain over tho whole nl)domen, tenesmus, uterine hicmorrhage, inflammation of the peritoneum, and severe febrile symptoms, may bo excited. With regard to the effects caused by tho pres- sure of the tumor on the bladder and rectum, they consist of more or less dilHculty in voiding tho