Monthly Journ. 1862. Geo. Macleod, Glasgow, n Chir. Trans, v. .xxxv. Rokitanskv, ratti. Anatomie i. p. iiT. Zeis, tMm. de In S. de BiolOffie. 1855. Gnodsii; An. Observations, Edin- bnr<cli. Virc/iow's Cellular Patlioloffy by Clinnce, Loud. 1860. Bi-odie's Works by Hawkins. For Mor- tilication as a consequence of injury of nerves, see Art. Inaammation. MOXA.—The Chinese moxa consists of the omentum of the leaves of the artemisia latifolia. That which Baron Percy employs is made of the stalk of the great sunflower, soaked in a solution of nitre, and afterwards well dried ; cotton, how- ever, similarly prepared, completely answers the purpose. Mr. Dunglison, who has translated Lar- rey's memoir on this subject, and added to it some interesting matter, shows that the moxa has been used in the eastern parts of the world many centu- ries. The cone or cylinder of moxa is composed of a certain quantity of cotton wool, over which a piece of fine linen is rolled, and fastened at the side by a few stitches. This conical cylinder should be about an inch long, and of a proportionate thick- ness ; the size, however, may be varied according to circumstances. A portc moxa, is intended to fix the cylinder upon the precise spot, where the application is to be made. The metallic ring of this instrument is kept from touching the skin by means of three small supports of ebony, which is a bad conductor of caloric. After the extremity of the cone has been set iire to, the combustion is kept up by means of ablon'-pipe; however, it should not be too much hastened, but allowed to proceed slowly. The pre- cise spot, to which the moxa is to be applied, ought to be first marked with a little ink, and all the surrounding surface covered with a wet rag, that has a hole in the middle, so as to leave the part bare, which has been marked. After the top of the moxa has been set on fire, the base of it, held in the porte moxa, must be placed upon the intended part, and the combustion kept up with the blow- pipe, until the whole is consumed. In order to prevent the subsequent inflammation and suppu- ration from being too considerable, the liquor ammoniae should be immediately applied to the burnt part. The diseases, in which Baron Larrey has found the moxa eflicacious, are amaurosis, and incipient cataract (cases in which he applies it over the course of the facial nerve, just behind the angle of the jaw); deafness and aphonia arising from cold- tic douloureux, and partial paralysis of the muscles' ot the face; palsy of the lower extremities; phthi- sis; diseased spine; disease of the hip-joint, &c. M. Roux, when he visited the London hospitals, had two opportunities afforded him of applying the moxa, in order to convince the rising generation ot surgeons m this country of its superior efficacy. Ihe first was in a case of spontaneous paralysis of the deltoid muscle at St. Bartholomew's. The moxa was applied a little below the acromion, and a tew daysaliorwards the motion of the arm becan to bo restored This, however, was a case, which accoidmg to the account of Roux himself, had re- lapsed after having been cured by other means. I think one of the surgeons of St. Bartholomew's informed me, that notwithstanding the moxa the relief proved again only temporary. If, however the moxa had succeeded, a caustic issue, a blister' or the volatile liniment, would probably have answered equally well. The second instance, n MOXA. jjj^ which M. Roux applied the moxa, was a case of white swelling at Guy's Hospital ; but the disease had advanced too far to allow any hope of a favour- able issue. (See Vo,/age fait d, Londres en 1814 ou Paralldc de la Ckirurffie Avgloise avec la Chi miyic Fmnqaise, pp. 1.9, 20.) M. Roux flutters himself that, "/« chiruryiens aiiglois rtpugneronl sans doiUe moins a I'avenir a faire usage du moxa." The truth is, English surgeons, as well as English farriers, knew very well before the arrival of M. Roux what might be done with moxa and the actual cauterj'. But, though the application of fire still prevails in the veterinary art, as a mode of curing diseases, it has long been abandoned as a means of relief in the English practice of surgery not on the ground of its being always inefi-ectual- but, because equal good has been found to result from measures, which are milder, always less ter- rific, and frequently less painful. In order to con- " vmce an English surgeon that moxa and the actual cautery ought to be introduced into practice, M. Roux should prove, that there is at least some par- ticular disease, which may in this manner be cured, but which cannot be cured by other means ordina- rily employed in our practice. He should also make us forget, that the application of actual fire was once as common in English surgery as in French; but that it had not attractions enough to maintain its ground. However, that the reader may know the argu- ments used by the advocates for the practice, I submit to him the following observations, which are contained m a periodical work. All the world knows, that counter-irritation is of great use in the treatment of disease; and almost all the world knows, that diflferent forms of counter-irritation produce different eftects on the human body. We do not pretend to specify what is the reason of these diflterent effects, simply because we do not know But, while such men as Percy and Larrey, and twenty others of character, speak so highly in fa- vour of the actual cautery, we perhaps are scarcely authorized to say, that the action of the potential cautery can be made to resemble it in all cases We can easily understand how the actual cautery should fall into disuse, however good a remedy it might be; for, if we ourselves were patients, we should be slow in believing, that the pain of the application was not so severe as our fears point out; but, the scepticism of the medical man ought to rest on different grounds. We may say, respecting the moxa, that its action may be more easily regu- lated than that of caustics; so that by the more or less sedulous use of the blow-pipo, we may create a superficial eschar, or a deep suppurating wound. In fact, in all cases, where more than a mere irri- tation of the skin is required, the moxa affords a certainty in its applications possessed by none of the other caustics. Of course, it would be im- proper to compare the moxa with blisters, or with any other counter-irritant, which acts by irritating the skin, without destroying it : if we compare it, therefore, with the emetic tartar ointment, issues,' setons, and the caustics, properly so called, we' shall find, that it possesses greater advantages than they do. The first of those is a long time in de- stroying the cutis, and it is very uncertain in the quantity of its olfcct: moreover, whether the efl'ect be produced at all, generally depends on the dili- gence and knowledge of the patient's attendantf and not on the medical man. Hence, it is not