VENEREAL DISEASE! 0G3 restoration of the patient to health. Under proper management, if prescribed within certain limits, and at appropriate periods, it will effect this without any equivalent disadvantage. It is in the earlier stage of secondary disease that mercury is especially indicated, but it is a question worth considering whether it should be given indiscriminately in all cases. Some of the French surgeons, especially Diday, are inclined to dispense with it in ihe milder cases, those, for instance, in which there is only a faint eruption of roseola, which they consider may safely be left to the unassisted operations of nature, while thev resort to it in cases of well marked scaly or papular eruption with corresponding affections of the mucous membranes. In the slighter cases alluded to, it may be an open question, therefore, whether it is worth while to prescribe a mercurial course, at all events at the commencement j but in the severer examples, the course of the disease is greatly prolonged if it is left alone, and it is in them especially that the good effects of mercurial treatment are most manifest. The disappearance of existing symptoms is rapid under its use, which is the best evidence that the morbid intluence is for the time, at any rate, much diminished. Re- lapses no doubt frequently occur under this as under every other plan of treatment, but they are as a rule slight and unimportant, and the final eradication of the syphilitic poison is in the end greatly accelerated. In many cases, where syphilis seems to exert an unusually injurious and depress- ing influence, mercury will be found to be the most efficient tonic that can be prescribed. Not only will the symptoms disappear, but the patient's appetite will improve and his weight incieaso under its use, and this often, although there may be indications of a strumous diathesis which might under other circumstances seem to contra- indicate the use of the remed}'. There are three methods of administering mer- cury : by the mouth, by inunction, and by fumi- gation. Each has its appropriate uses, but as a general rule, we have a preference for the first, as being equally effectual and much more conve- nient. For internal use, there is the choice between blue pill, hydrarg. c. creta, the chloride, the iodide, the peroliloride, and the biniodide. Blue pill or the hydrarg. c. creta are the least likely to derange the stomach, and are as effectual as any, The dose should not, to commence with, exceed three grains, with ith of a grain of opium, night and morning. Salivation is of course care- fully to be guarded against, and the first indica- tion of swelling and tenderness along the free border of the gums should be considered an indi- cation for the diminution of the dose. In this Way, all the good effects of the remedy are secured, without its depressing influence, and without any of the various evils which have been alleged to result from its use. The chloride or the iodide in doses of about a grain twice daily are preferred by some, but we have found them more irritating to the bowels, more depressing, and tending more rapidly to induce salivation. The perchloride and the biniodide have their appropriate uses; the former is especially valuable, but not in the early periods of the disease. It should be given in doses of Jjth or -rV'h of a grain thrice daily, in combination with tonics. It is in cases of relapse, when mercury in other forms has already bceii given, and particularly In affections of the mouth and throat, often so troublesome find persistent, and in palmar and plantar psoriasis, that these two remedies are especially applicable. Mercurial inundion is a very efficient method, and is well adapted for hospital in-patients, wlio have nothing else to do and who we under regular supervision, but it is troublesome and dirty, and is often objected to by private patients who wish to conceal their disease. It may be reserved for those cases in which the internal administration produces griping or diarrhoea. Half a drachm of the strong mercurial ointment rubbed in on the skin of the thighs, abdomen, or axillaj, is an ap- propriate quantity. Mercurial fitmigalion is another very effectual mode, and has again come into fashion of late through the advocacy in the first instance of Mr. Langston Parker in 1839, and afterwards of Mr. Henry Lee. Moist mercurial fumigation or the mercurial vapour bath is the plan now adopted. A spirit-lamp is so contrived as to surround the patient with a watery as well as a mercurial vapour. The lamp is placed under the chair on which he sits, and he is enclosed, chair and all, in a blanket or other covering, which should reach to the ground and be tixel closely round his throat, as it is not expedient that the vapour should be inhaled. The bath should be given at bed time, and he should remain in it for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. The bisulphuret, the oxide, or the chloride may be used; the latter has been specially recommended by Mr. Lee, and is perhaps the most convenient and effectual. From b>j. to 3s3. of calo- mel each night is an appropriate" dose, but care should be taken lest the mercurial action be carried further than is expedient, and salivation induced. We have given a full and impartial trial both in the Lock Hospital and in private practice to each of the three methods of administering mercury, and have been unable to discover that, as a general rule, there is any material difference in the result. If fumigation has any special indication, it is in cases where there is a copious skin eruption, and where therefore it may be beneficial to give tlie patient the advantage of its local as well as its constitutional operation. We have foumi, how- ever, that the repetition, for any length of time, of the mercurial vapour bath has had a depressing influence, and that patients more frequently com- plain of lassitude and debility under its use than under either of the other methods. The preparations of iodine, in our opinion, have no tlierapinitic value, as a general rule, in primary syphilitic ulcerations, whether attended with indu- ration or not. We believe them to be equally use- less in the class of symptoms usually termed " secondary," at all events in their earlier stages, when mercury, under proper management, has so eminently beneficial an effect. TrmimanlnJ'Tiirllary Si/philis.—The preparations of iodine have their special application in the treat- ment of the class of symptoms usually denominated •' tertiary." These are skin affections tending to ulcerate—such as tubercle and rupia, destructive ulcerations of the throat and palate, affections of the periosteum and bones, gnniiiiatous tumours of the cellular and muscular tissues, and affections of bimilar character in internal organs ; some forms of orchitis and also of iritis might be iiu iiided in the I'st. In our opinion,.nothing is more certain than,