MORTIFICATION. 306 arteries, aneurism, &c ..... , — , See Professor Lay caches Lectures, Med. Times, S^Gaz. 18G1, vol. i. p. 153.] Mortification arisinij from long continuance in the same posture, is cliiefly attributable to debility and the unremitted pressure which parts sustain, and which obstructs the circulation. Surgeons have frequent occasion to see melan- choly examples of this kind of mortification, particularly in cases of fractures, paralysis^ from disease of the vertebraj, injuries of the spine or pelvis, &c. The mischief most readily occurs where the bones have the least flesh upon them, and, consequently, where all external pressure has the greatest effect; as, for instance, about the OS sacrum, os ilium, spines of the scapulae, &c. The disordered part first becomes soft, livid, red at the circumference, and oedematous, afterwards losing its sensibilitj', and acquiring a black ap- pearance; at length, it is converted into a foul sloughing ulcer. Dr. Cars well describes a local accumulatioti of hlood as constituting in general the first perceptible change. " The blood accumulates partly from the influence of gravitation, and partly from compres- sion of the veins; as, for example, in mortification of the soft parts covering the sacrum, heels, elbows. &c. of persons recovering from typhoid fevers and who are left in that state of "prostration which precludes the possibility of changing the position of the body. It is, perhaps, still more conspicuous in some patients similarly confined with paraplegia from injury of the spinal cord." (See CarsiueWs Illustrations, S;c., Fuse. 7.) Though long continuancS in the same posture is the grand cause of this kind of mortification, yet incidental circumstances are frequently com- fjined with it, and have great influence over the disorder. These are, great debility, fever, impure air, unclean bedding, &c. According to Sir A. Cooper, some fevers have a greater tendency than others to produce gangrene, as is the case with scarlatina. In slight cases of this disorder, he says, the most horrible eff"ects will sometimes arise from gangrene. The tonsils will slough to a great extent; parts of the Eustachian tube, and even the tympanum, will separate, and large portions of bone exfoliate. He also adverts to the dangerous sloughing frequently brought on in the measles by the "application of large blisters to the chests of children, and points out the disposition to slough- ing occasioned by the immoderate use of mercury, or by whatever tends to weaken the constitution. There are some causes which produce death in a part at once, by the violence of their opera- tion. A very powerful blow on any portion of the body may destroy its vitality in this sudden manner. Lightning, strong concentrated acids, alkalies, arsenic, and other mineral poisons, and gunshot violence, sometimes act in a similar way. Cold is often another catise of mortification, and, when parts which have been frozen, or frost- bitten, are suddenly warmed, they are particularly apt to slough. I find in Baron Larrey'a valuable publication, some interesting observations on tlie gangrene from cold. He acquaints us, that after the battle of Eylau, one of the most grievous events to which the French soldiers were exposed was the freezing of their feet, toes, noses, and ears : few of the vanguard escaped the affliction. In some, the mortification was confined to the surface of the integuments of the toes or heels; in some, the skin mortified more deeplj', and to a greater or lesser extent; while, in others, the whole of the toes, or foot, was destroyed. (See Progravma quo fritjoris iicrioris in corpore humauo effectus ex- pendil.—IIaller, Disp. ad Morb. Leips. 1775.) " All the writers on this species of mortification (says Larrev) have considered cold as the deter- mining cause; but, if we attend to the period when the complaint begins, and the phenomena which accompany it, we shall be convinced that cold is merely the predisposing cause. In fact, during the three or four exceedingly cold days which prece ded the battle of Eylau (the mercury having then fallen to 10, II, 12, 13, 14, and 15 degrees below zero of Reaumur's thermometer), and until the second day after the battle, not a soldier complained of any symptom dependmg upon the freezing of parts. Nevertheless, they had passed these days, and a great portion of the nights of the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9ih of Feb- ruary, in the snow and the most severe frost. The imperial guard especially had remained upon watch in the snow, hardly moving at all for more than four-and-twenty hours, yet no soldier pre- sented himself at the ambulance, nor did any one complain of his feet being frozen. In the night of the 9th and 10th of February, the tem- perature suddenly rose, the mercury ascending to 3, 4, and 5 degrees above zero. A great quantity of sleet, that fell on the morning of the 10th, was the forerunner of the thaw which took place in the course of that day, and continued in the same degree for several days. From this moment, many soldiers of the guards and the line applied for succour, complaining of acute pain in the feet, and numbness, heaviness, and prickings in the extremities. The parts were scarcely swollen, and of an obscure red colour. In some cases, a slight redness was perceptible about the roots of the toes, and on the back of the foot. In others, the toes were destitute of motion, sen- sibility, and warmth, being already black, and, as it were, dried. All the patients assured me, that they had not experienced any painful sensation during the severe cold to which they had been exposed on the night watches of the Sth, 6th, /th, 8th, and Sth of February, and that it was not till the night of the 10th, when the temperature had risen about 18 or 20 degrees, that they felt the first efltects of the cold." It is further noticed by Larrey, that such patients as had opportunities ol warming themselves in the town, or at the fires of the night watches, suffered in the greatest degree. (See Memoires de Chirurgie Militatre, t. in. pp. 60 There is little doubt but that dry cold applieJ continuously to the feet may induce gangrene ; usu- ally, however, it is the sudden rise of tempe- rature and the damp, which is an accompaniment. Exposure to severe cold, especially with wind, produces frost-hite-n condition of local syncope- [he part being cold, pallid, and pulseless without circulation ; but it may really be restored, if the process be accomplished gradually. Therejs no doubt but that a part may be really/'-";^''' recover. An instance of this may ,^ ' m-ocess of congelation, as a mode of anmstliesia Ti e gims of persons who have been submitted to congelation for the purpose of pamless tooth- drawing, though quite frozen, soon recover.