MORTIFICATION. 3ie months after the artery has been tied for the cure of aneurism; and again, where it has originated in a fungoid tumour of the periosteum, both of which may be regarded as instances nearly of idiopathic disease. Nay, I am in possession of a case, which occurred in an liospital in this city (Dublin), where amputation succeeded, although many would have regarded it as a specimen of Pott's gangrene of the toes and feet." (See Porler, in DiM. Jourit. of Med. Science, vol. iv. p. 219.) A similar case was successfully operated upon by M. Amussat, though the gangrene was spreading. (See Archives Gen. Jan. 1835.) In the article Amputation, notice has been taken of a sloughing, which commences in the foot, and extends up the leg, and sometimes fol- lows gun-shot injuries of the thigh, which involve the femoral artery: this is a case particularly in- stanced by Mr. Guthrie, as requiring the very early performance of amputation. Sir Astley Cooper also refers to cases, in which the rule was successfully deviated from, of not amputating, before limits are set to the spreading of mortifica- tion ; the instances in question arose from injury of blood vessels, and other local violence, in patients of a healthy constitution. In such cases, it is admitted by this very experienced surgeon, that the practice should be different from what is usually pursued in mortification from constitutional causes. (^Sttryical Essays, part ii. p. 186.) With regard to the early performance of am- putation, where the substance of a limb perishes after exposure to cold, I find some difference of sentiment between two very high authorities. Thus Schmucker observes : " The mortification which comes on after a part has been frozen, increases so rapidly, if the limb be exposed to warinth, that in the space of twenty-four hours, its vitality and organization are quite destroyed, and nothing will now avail in restoring its sensi- bility. Here the speedy performance of amputa- tion is the only means of preservation to be de- pended upon. In mortification from an internal cause, the case is different." (See Ver,)mclUe adrurgisclie Schriflen, b. 1. p. 15. 8 vo. Berlin, 1785.) According to Larrey, however, this spe- cies of gangrene at length stops, and a line of separation forms between the dead and healthy parts If the disorder be superficial, the sloughs are usually thrown off between the ninth and thirteenth days, leaving an ulcer of proportionate extent, that soon heals up. If the whole of the limb be sphacelated, nature cannot of herself effect a cure, or but very rarely ; the patient mostly falling a victim to tlie effects of absorption, when the sloughs are detached, and the mouths of the lymphatics are opened on the recurrence ot sup- puration. Larrey assures us, that he has seen numerous patients carried off by this cause, while the examples of a spontaneous cure were ex- ceedingly few, and, in these, the stump was kit irregular, and unfit for beating the pressure ol a wooden leg. He agrees, therefore', with the ge- nerality of surgeons, that in these instances, it is advantageous to amputate the mortified portion of the limb, but not before the eaicisioii of the (/angrene has ceased, and the mischief ts bowideU by Ml inflammatory line. (See Mem. dc C/iu: Mil. t. iii. pp. C5—72.) ' [Mr. Cooper appears to incline to the opinion that amputation should as a general rule be de- layed till a line of demarcation is established ; al- though, with his usual fairness, he allows the otiier side to speak, and admits of exceptions to his own doctrine. The matter illustrates the difficulty of laying down general rules ; but certainly the ge- neral rule prevalent now is to amputate, whenever gangrene is rapidly spreading. In cases of trau- matic gangrene -.—of gangrene from injury of large vessels, bursting of aneurisms, &c., the rule in fa- vour of amputating is universal. In the case of senile gangrene, and the cases of slow spreading gangrene, which cause no immediate danger to life, and in which the state of the constitution, and the state of the parts is such that the operation might be fatal, or at any rate that the disease might re- appear immediately on the stump, the rule is the reverse.] -K- -DrwiV^. Fabricii Hildani Tract. Methodicus de Gang:riEna et Sphacelo. Quesnai, Trait<4 de la Ga'ngr&ne, 12rao. Paris, 1749. Enryclop^die M^thodique, PartieChirui-- gicale, art. Gangrene. Kirkland on Gangrene, and on the Present State of Medical Surgery. Richter, Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. b. i. kap. 3. Various parts of Hunter on Inflammation, &c. Sharp's Critical Inquiry into the present state of Sursery, chap. 8. Richerand, Nosographie Chir. t. i. p. 215, &c. edit.4. Lassus, Pathologie Chir. t. i. p. 30, &c. edit. 1809. Levant, Nouveile Doctrine Chir. t. iv. p. 321, &c. Paris, 1812. Larrey, Mfemoires de Chirurgie Mili- taire t. iii.; particularly the M^m. sur la Gangrene de Congelation, p. 60, and that sur la Ganjjr^ne Traumatique, p. 141. Callisen, Systema ChirurgiEC Hodierna;, vol. ii. p. 374. edit. 1800. Dr. J. Thomson s Lectures on Inflammation, p. 501. Edinb. 1813. 0'Halloran on Gangrene and Sphacelus, Svo. Dublin, 1765. Pott's Obs. on the Mortification ot the Joes and Feet in his Chirurg. Works, vol. iii. J. Ktr}<land, Thouehts on Amputation, &c. with a short Essay on the Use of Opium in Mortification, Svo. bond. 1780. J. A. Murray, in Gangra;nam Scroti. Obs. (trank Del op. 10 ) Dr. C. Wollaston, Phil. Trans., 1762 C White, Observations on Gangrenes and Mortifications, accompanied, &c. with convulsive snasms, Svo. 1790. Pearson's Principles of Surgery, 15 114. edit. 2. Lawrence in Med. Chir. Trans, vol vi p. 184. &c. De??3ec/(, MemoiresurlaCompli- cation des Plsies et des Ulcferes, connue s^ur le Nora , de Pourriture d'HOpital; also. Precis El^mentaire des Maladies r(5put6es Chirurgicales, 1.1. p. 73. &c. Paris. 1816. Boyer, Trait^s des Maladies Chir. 1.1. n 105, &c. Paris, 1814. John BelVs Principles of Suree v. Himlv's Abhandlung uber der Brand der Weichen und harten Theile, GOtt. 1800. tor an ac count of the dry Gangrene, see particularly the writings of Hildanus, Tulpius, Quesnai, M<$m. de la Soc Royale de M^decine, t. i. Opere di Bertrandi; Medical Museum, &c. For a description of the mor- tification caused by eating cockspur r>x, see Odai d s letter in Journal des Savans, 1676. Noel, m mm. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1710. Langms, ';,»«criptio Morborum cx Esu Clavorum Secalinorum." Duhanxel, n Mto. de I'Acad. des Sciences, 1748. Dr. U. W oU laston, in Philosophical Trans. 1762. Icssier.m M/m de la Societe llovnle de Mddecinc, 1.1. and ii itr 0 Prescoti, A Dissertation on the Natural HUtorv and Medicinal Eftects of the Secale Cornu. turn or Ergot, Svo. Loud. 1813. D. F. Ueffter, llnrtrina; de Gangiffina brevis Expositio, 4to. Lips. ^mi C L Liesseninq, Ue Gangra;na, 4to. GCit. 811 Hamen's Principles of Military surgery, p. 241, &c ed 2 svo. Lond. 1820 G. J. Guthne on Gun- tYnt VVni nds &C. p. HI. &C. ed. 2. svo. Lond. 1820. f H Jm'ots o^n the Principles of Inflammation, n fii 287 &c svo. Lond. 1821. Sir A. Cooper, C' ^.„i li'^snvs nart ii. p. 186. Rvo. Loud. 1820. T^Tp^c)%'mm^^ Journ. of Med Science, •oi iv svo. 1833. John T1-. Tnmer, of the.sudden "'fTeFlcmontm ; Forms of Disease, Fassiculus tions of the •''''^'""i""'^'^.,,,.^,/^,^,-, Anatomic Pathol.