prominence—that is, that an injured part has in itself the power to draw a flux of blood to itself, and to set up inflammation by virtue of its own vital power. This power—irrilaliiiity—was ex- pressed b)- Serjeant Wiseman, who asserts that a part exposed to heat, pain, or iiijmy, "■ at- tracts hiniiours " to itself. Wiseman says that some call it attraction, others appuhicn, but that either word will do for a practical man. Yet in truth a mighty difference is involved in the two words, one making the part inflamed active by its own vital power, tlie other making it thepassive recipient of influences from humours, vital spirits, soul, or nerves. Boissier de Sauvages, the great nosologist (i. 1706, d. 1767), in treating of the causes of local afflux, describes the simple experi- ment of pinching a kitten's ear to show the vascu- larity resulting from local irritation. He denies this can be from loss of power in the capillaries, or inspissation of blood, or morbid hiunours, but de- clares it to be the work of Nature, that " potentia nutrix intelligens et sanitatis tutrix provida." (Opera, Amstelodami, 1768, vol. i., p. 366.) Bordeu {h. 172-2, d. 1776), a charming and most sensible writer, is most definite as to the indepen- dent life of the various parts of the organism. In his Rccherchcs anatomiqiies sw les Ghmdes (Paris, ] 7£2, Sect. 129, or (Euvres completes, Paris, 1818, t. i., p. 193), he says: "When a part inflames, it becomes a special organ, which has its own action, its circulation, and all its own functions, independently in a certain degree of what it receives from the gene- ral circulation." He compares the body to a swarm of bees, moving as a whole, yet composed of inde- pendent vital units. In inflammation he says there is a kind of local erection, to wliicli blood is brought in greater quantity tlircuigli the irritation of the vascular nerves. Again, he uses the Hun- terian words "disposition" and "action." In- flammation, he says, results from a certain dispp- silion of a part, whose nerves have a violent action. Moieover, the words stimulus and irritation had come thoroughly into use; still all "action "was commonly ascribed to a sentient piinciple acting through the nerves; and this was held by Mead, Whytt, and all the most eminent men, till Haller demonstrated the contraction of muscles by a vis insila, or innate power, which might be influ- enced by the nerves, but existed independently of their influence. Whytt (a physiologist of whom Scotland should be proud, who foresaw the law ■and fact of reflex action of the central nervous system), contended that the action of the small arteries in inflammation was produced through the nerves. {W\\yt\., Physiological Essays, 3rd ed., 1766 ; Seller, On Life and Writings of WInjtt, Transactions of R. Soc. of Edinljurgh, 1862 ; Haller, PnmcB Lineai, dated 1747.) William Cullen (&. 1712, d. 1790), whose Nosology was used till 1850 in the army and navy, though he repudiates Stahl's Anima m words, is obliged to have recourse to a Kt's Ma- dicuirix miiirtB to fulfll the same purpose, lie also repudiates all humoral pathology. In his " First Lines of the Practice of Physic (dated 1783, ed. 1791) he states that a " spasm of the extreme arteries supporting an increased action in the course of them " (p. 259) is the circum- stance which determines and commences inflam- mation. This idea is supported by his account of rheumatism, which is " often manifestly INFLAMMATION. produced by cold applied to over-distended ves- sels, or by causes of an increased impetus, and over-distension in vessels already constricted." And the state of the whole arterial system, wiiich permits an inflammation to be readily produced in other parts besides that first affected, is brought forward as an additional proof. The treatment recorauiended by Cullen (p. 279) is directed to the removal of the remote c iuses, and of the general or local " phlogistic diathesis," and to taking off the spasm of the particular part by remedies applied either to the whole system, or to the part itself. This list resolves itself into febrifuge medicines, leeches, poultices, and cooling lotions. This doctrine of " actions," " spasma," and " stimuli," runs through the whole of this work. The same thing is particularly insisted on in the preface, where we find (p. 33): " although it cannot be denied that the fluids of the human body suffer various morbid changes, and that upon these diseases may pri- marily depend, yet I must beg leave to main- tain that the nature of these changes is seldom understood ; that our reasonings concerning them have been for the most part purely hypothetical ; and that in this, particularly, they have been hurtful—that they have withdrawn our attention from, and prevented our study of, the motions of the animal system, upon the state of which the phenomena of diseases do more certainly and generally depend." And (p. 47): " the affections of the motions and moving powers of the aniriial economy must certainly be the leading inquiry in considering the diseases of the human body." Having brought our history of tiieory to the middle of the eighteenth century, and, referring to Subsection 6 for short notices of the chemistry of the blood, we must now go on to give an abstract of the doctrines of .lohn Hunter (6. 1728, (/. 1793), a task of no small difficulty. It is rendered ne- cessary by the reputation of the man, by the position which he justly holds as a profound philosopher, and by the incessant appeals which the succeeding generation made to his authority. Yet, as we have before shown, some doctrines have been ascribed to Hunter which he not only never held, but directly combated ; as, for example, the doctrine of the essentially inflam- matory nature of all repair, which was taught by the qiiasi-Hunterians of the Borough Schools in Sir A. Cooper's time. (5t'c cifiorcpp. 8, 9.) But the difficulty is this—that in reading Hunter's works (and we refer now especially to his treatise on the Blood, Infammalion, and Gunshot Wounds, &c., dated 1793 ; Falmcr's cd. 1837) v.-e are perplexed by meeting with two sets of incom- patible opinions, which continually strive for the mastery. On the one liand, he is a great theorist, laying down laws of life, and deducing his views of the phenomena and treatment of disease from those laws. On the other, he is a practical mail or empiric, who confesses that we have no a. priori knowledge, nor anything certain which is not based upon experience, and who finds his laws no laws, so full is nature of cases which cannot be reduced under them. On the one hand lie urges a study of prin- ciples, and repudiates a "Chinese philosophy,' consisting in a mere accnmnlation of facts ; on the other hand he says, most justly with respect