VENEREAL DISEASE. 947 white, soft, moist, (Int surface, which discharges a white matter {coittii/lumata, mucous tubercle). A venereal eruption often attacks the part of the fingers on which the nail is formed {syphUitic oi/>/chiu). Here the disease renders the surface red, which is seen shining througli tiie nail ; and, if allowed to continue, a separation of the nail takes place. When surfaces covered with hair are at- tacked, the hair falls off (alopcecki), and cainiot be reproduced, so long as the disease lasts. Dr. Bateman remarked how frequently cuta- neous eruptions, the result of the venereal poison, are the source of embarrassment to the prac- titioner. They appeared to him to assume such a variety of forms that they bade defiance to any arrangement founded upon their external charac- ter; and, in fact, he sets them down as possessing no common or exclusive marks, by which their Jiature and origin are indicated. It seemed to him, .that, perhaps, there is no order of cutaneous ap- pearances, and scarcely any genus or species of the chronic eruptions, which these secondary sym- ptoms of syphilis do not occasionally resemble. He admits, however, that in many cases there is a difference, which a practised eye will recognise, between the ordinary diseases of the skin and the syphilitic eruptions, to which the same generic ap- pellation might be given. This, says he, is often observable z« the shade of colour, in the situation occupied by the eruption, in the mode of its distri- lution, and in the general complexion of the patient. Hence, to a person conversant with those ordinary diseases, a degree of anomaly in these respects will immediately excite a suspicion, which will lead him to investigate the history of the progress of such an eruption and of its concomitant symptoms. (See >S^- nopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, pp. 331, 332, 3rd ed.) Dr. Hennen does not pretend to be able to dis- criminate true syphilitic eruptions from others ; and hence, he generally approves of deferring the use of mercury at first, in order to see whether these cutaneous affections will yield to other means; which, by the bye, would, after all, be no test of their not being syphilitic : " but (says he) I should not very long postpone the employment of the mildest mercurial alteratives, aided by warm bathing and sudorifics." (On Military Surgery, 2nd ed. p. 518.) v J' ^ J'. By attending to the history of the case, and the concomitant symptoms, I should say that the practitioner will have less difficulty in arriving at 1 a correct judgment than is sometimes represented, i ■'l. Il^n'er's time, and until the period of Dr. Willan, we find venereal eruptions all jumbled I together, under the general term of copper- c coloured blotches. In Hunter's work, " we find (says Mr. Carmichael) no mention of papula;, pustules, tubercules, rupia, psoriasis, or lepra; all t these forms of eruptinn, indicative of different forms of disease, and often requiring different modes of treatment, are all classed under one general and undi.stinguishing term of copper-coloured scaly blotches." Mr. Carmichael argues, indeed, that a classification, grounded on the character of the eruption, is not only in accordance with nature, hut tile most practically useful for the following reasons: 1. When a practitioner meets with a patient affected with a papular eruption (syphilitic lichen), either in its early stage, when it presents itself in the form of pimples, with acuminated heads, con- tainnig matter; or in its advanced stage, when the spots have desquamated, and present one of the appearances which Hunter calls c(i|iper-coloured blotches, he may be certain that he has only a disease of easy management to contend with, and that, under suitable treatment, he may assure his patient, with confidence, of a certain and speedy recovery. 2. If we meet with a pustular eruption, which termimites in superficial ulcers, and not in desqua- mation (syphilitic ecthyma), we may be certain that we have a much more formidable disease tn manage. 3. If there is offered to our consideration a case of pustular eruption, mixed with tubercles, which terminate in deep ulcers, ivhich spread into a pha- gcdenio margin, and form those crusts termed rupia, we may be certain that we have the most un- manageable and destructive form of venereal dis- ease to contend with. It is (says Mr. Carmichael) in this form of the disease that we meet with extensive ulceration, engaging the velum, uvula, tonsils, and back of the pharnyx, where it lies upon the bodies of the vertebrae, ulceration of the nares, destruction of the bones of the nose, and also ulcer- ation of the larynx, the usual precursor of laryn- geal phthisis. 4. The scaly eruption (comprising syphilitic psoriasis and lepra) is a form of disease whicli is in general manageable; for, unlike the pustular and phagedenic forms of venereal disease, it yields with certainty and quickness to the influence of mercury. It raaj', however, as Mr. Carmichael adds, be accompanied by deep ulceration of the tonsils, and very obstinate nodes; but whether ulceration of the larynx and nares attends it is more than he is able to state, since he has never witnessed it. Mr. Carmichael believes that this form of disease, formerly denoted by the phrase "copper-coloured scaly blotches," is often confounded with other forms of venereal eruptions, because papulce and pustules, in titeir desquamating, declining stage, assume a scaly copper-coloured appearance ; and even rupia evinces the same tendency when the dis- ease is on the decline. Mr. Carmichael states that it is the tendency of all venereal eruptions to be- come scaly, when the disease is gradually yielding to the powers of the constitution ; and, says he, "when in this state, no matter in what form the eruption commenced, I never saw mercury do harm, but always observed the most decided and quick amendment to follow its adoption." (See Dublin Joum.ofMed. Scietice, vol. xii. p. 28.) [It should be remarked that in the description here given by Mr. Cooper of constitutional syphilid, and by the authors he quotes, no distinction is made between the secondary and tertiary symptoms of the venereal disease. In his remarks on the skin affec- tions, and on those of the throat, nose, and tongue, it will be necessary to bear this in mind. With regard to the skin, the cases of rupia and the worst forms of syphilitic ecthyma ; the cases of sloughing of the throat and of the soft palate ; ozena of the nostrils, accompanied by caries and necrosis of tlie bones of the nose and of the hard palate ; the deposits of plastic lymph under the skin (subcutaneous tubercle), in the muscles, and internal viscera, in the tongue producing hartl nodules resembling cancer of that organ ; the various affections of the fibrous tissites, whether it be of the periosteum, resulting in nodes caries, and necrosis of bones, or the fihrnua tex- tures of the joints, the tunica albugiiiea of the testis, or the sclerotic coat of the ej-i', producing