614 RECTUM, DISEASES OF. ing parts form n. tumor, which is li!il)lo to in- flame mid alVord great distress." {On Dis. of Arteries, ^c. p. 566.) This observation agrees with the statement of Sir E. Home, that in cases of long standing the contents of hajmorrhoidal tumors " coagulate and become solid ; their coats increase in thickness, and they resemble pendulous e.tcrescent tumors in other situations in the body." (Ok Ulcers, <S-c.) [The cutaneous excrescences, usually deno- minated "e.xtemal piles," are of very frequent occurrence. They often, no doubt, originate in the manner above described, but they are also often met with independent of any evident varicose condition. Any irritation of the delicate integu- ment close to the anus is apt to produce inflamma- tion and swelling, and to give rise to a permanently hypertrophied condition of the skin and subcu- taneous areolar texture answering to Mr. Syme's second subdivision of the complaint. After the sub- sidence of the inflammation, loose flaps of skin re- main, which may, for along time, occasion no pain or inconvenience to the patient, though they are at times liable to fresh attacks of inflammation, as a consequence of errors in diet, constipation, over-ex- crtion in walking or riding, and such like causes. They then form painful swellings, of a bright red colour, forming a contrast in this respect to the dark purple hue of the true venous external hsemorr- hoid, while they are also less abruptly circumscribed than the tumors formed by the coagulation of blood in a dilated vein. The only permanently effectual treatment of these swellings is their removal by excision. They should be seized with the forceps and cut off at their base with a pair of strong scissors. It is better, especially where they are numerous, to let the incisions be made in a direction radiating from the anus rather than transversely. There is no danger to be apprehended either at the time or subsequently from the removal of these external folds of skin. The bleeding is seldom of any importance; in most cases it soon ceases spon- taneously, or should it not do so, it can he ar- rested immediately and, with certainty by slight pressure with a sponge held to the part for a few minutes. The wounds, in the great majority of cases, rapidly heal. The ligature should on no account be used for the removal of swellings ex- ternal to the anal aperture. The danger of bleed- ing is entirely imaginary, while the strangulation of the skin by a ligature always occasions acute and prolonged suffering to the patient, and often excites considerable constitutional disturbance. The practice is not even yet entirely exploded, but it is one which cannot be too strongly con- demned. As Sir B. Brodie observes, " if an abscess has formed which bursts, discharges, and closes at its orifice, and then bursts and discharges again, it may be expedient to cut off the pile and the abscess with it." In cases where excision may not be thought necessary or expedient, or where the patient de- clines to submit to it, measures nuist be adopted to subdue the inihuiimation when present. For this purpose rest in the recumbent posture is es- sential; cooling and sedative applications should be used to the part, such as the acetate of lead lotion with opium or morphia; or, if the patient prefer it, a warm hip bath or warm linseed poultice. Leeches are frequently employed, but, according to the ex- perience of the writer, they often do more harm than good by the irritation which they occasion. Free purgation with calomel and colocynth, fol- lowed by saline aperients, are of the greatest ser- vice, not only by clearing the bowels but by un- loading the portal system and so relieving the congestion. When the inflammation and pain have subsided, the unguent. Hydrarg. Amnion. Chloridi, or an ointment composed of half a drachm of calo- mel to the ounce of lard may be used to aid in the reduction of the swelling. These are better than the gall ointment so constantly ordered, \yhich is a dirty and irritating application. Astringents, such as the gall nut, may be useful applications to a mucous membrane, but they have little or no in- fluence, except to irritate, when applied to a cu- taneous surface.] Internal Haemorrhoids. [The term hsemorrhoid is more appropriately ap- plied to this condition than to the affection just described, a flow of blood being one of its most characteristic symptoms, whereas haemorrhage is not a frequent accompaniment of the external hae- morrhoidal swellings. Internal haemorrhoids are tumors situated just above the sphincter muscle, and covered by the mucous membrane of the bowel. They consist of hypertrophied mucous membrane and submucous tissue, containing a very copious network of blood vessels. In some cases the swellings seem to con- sist mainly of the ramifications of vessels held toge- ther by a very limited amount of connective tissue. The doctrine formerly very commonly taught, and indeed still held by some modern writers of repute, among whom may be mentioned Mr. Quain and Mr. Curling, was that internal haemorrhoids are mainly caused by venous dilatation, that they are in fact an enlarged and varicose condi- tion of the hsemorrhoidal veins.] The opinion that piles are formed of cells filled with blood, was adopted by Dr. IVibes. The dis- tention of the hfemorrhoidal veins w^ith bhiod, he observes, gives rise to varices; but, if any of their blood is extravasated in the cellular membrane, at the inferior and internal part of the anus, hajmor- rhoids are the result. If the inferior rnesenteric vein be dissected in htemorrhoidal patients, the ramifications of the vessel are seen terminating in these cysts of blood, and, on completely removing the whole, the hajmorrhoids appear suspended from the branches of the vein, as grapes from the vine. (See Jiavue Med. t. i. 8vo. 1820.) When piles consist of distinct cysts or sacs of blood, they are originally varicose enlargements of the branches of the hamorrhoidal veins. Were this not the fact, how could cases like the follow- ing ever take place ? " One of my patients (says M Delatour) had several of these tumors, of very large size, and, at every contraction of the splii'ic'er ani, the blood issued from them per salium. (JJi.^l. Phil Ohs 212.) Montegre has likewise seen two instances, in which the blood spouted out of the tumors in a continued stream. {Diet, dcs Se>c„ccs Mai. t. XX. p. 453.) And Richerand mentions a merchant who lived to the age of «ig''ty-""i;'1"''^, free from infirmity, and whose good health was ascribed to periodical bleedings from piles, during fifty years of his life; the evacuation being very regular, and so profuse, that the blood w;as thrown some distance, as from a vein opened m plilebo-