754 TRACHEOTOMY preaaiire is not made till tlie instant the incisions are commenced, and then only on one point. The limb, therefore, is not gorged with blood, nnd the soft parts can be much more readily carried bade from the bone, than when they are confined by a circular band. A strong spring, with pads, one placed in the course of the vessel, and the other on the opposite point, may be used in cases where there is a scarcity of assistants, or where there is a probability of many vessels requinng ligature. (See Lhimi on Practical Surgery, p. 297.) _ Dr. Moore, of Massachusetts, has described, in the Neiu England Journal, a tourniquet of his in- vention, which is very generally adopted by the suro-eors in that country who have not laid aside the° use of this instrument in their amputations. Many of the most distinguished American surgeons dispense with the tourniquet altogether, preferring to rely upon compression made on the principal artery of the limb by a competent assistant. It is asserted, that much less hemorrhage attends an amputation without a tourniquet, than when any modification of this instrument is used, and, in very many cases, the success of the operation is overthrown by the loss of blood. That the use of the tourniquet does increase the ha;morrbage, Dr. Reese thinks will be ap- parent to all who compare the two methods, " and although the bleeding is chiefly from the portion of the limb amputated, yet the debility induced is not the less on this account. On the first ap- plication of this instrument to the thigh, for ex- ample, the compression is made on the superficial veins, the return of the blood prevented, and the morbid state of the limb often favours the conse- quent engorgement. As the insti'ument is screwed, the turgeseence of the limb, below the point at which the compression is made, continues to in- crease until the circulation is stopped. No sooner is the incision made, than a hemorrhage of very considerable extent takes place, and the assistant is directed to tighten the instrument, which fails to suppress it, because the blood flows from the vessels of the limb below the incision, thus unnatu- rally- distended. Every operative surgeon must have suffered inconvenience and often anxiety from tliis source, and yet few have blamed the tourniquet, which is the true cause of the mischief. "I have operated myself, and witnessed the amputation of the thigh by Dr. Btishe and others, where the femoral artery was suddenly compressed by the fingers of an assistant, and the hsemorrliage was always very inconsiderable, often not more than half a pint during the whole operation. I believe the time is not very remote when this instrument will be everywhere abandoned, e.xcept where the surgeon is obliged to operate without an assistant, and in such cases the inconvenience will have to be submitted to of course." (See Reese, in American Ed. of this Didionary.) In the article Hjemouriiage. 1 onglit to have noticed the ring tourniquet, wliich is adapted to cases of compound fracture complicated with luuraorrhage, wound of the brachial artery in venesection, aneurism, &c. The ring tourniquet cr.nsists of a metal ring, having a diameter larger than that of the limb, to which it is to be applied, and a width of about an inch. The circum- ference is pierced at one point, so as to admit a screw, to the inner extremity of which a pad is f'xed, nnd to tlie outer end a small handle to turn the screw with, by the action of which the pad' can be carried towards, or away from, the centre of the circle. This instrument, when applied, makes pressure only on two parts, viz. by the pad on the site of/he artery, or bj- the portion of the ring immediately opposed to the pad, on the sur- face of the limb directly opposed to the position of the artery. Thus it does not interfere with the collateral circulation. (See Tyrcll, in St. TlLomas's Hospital Reports, p. 20.) Sir Astley Cooper in- forms me that he has often known hemorrhage from broken limbs stopped by the use of this instrument. It merits a trial, therefore, before following the prac- tice of Dupuytren and Delpech, which consists in exposing and tying the femoral artery at a distance from the seat of injury in the leg. The employment of ring tourniquets has prevailed more in some hospitals than others; and 1 know that it was sometimes resorted to by Dupuytren himself, as well as by some of the surijeons of Italy, and other parts of the world. The late Sir William Blizard long ago had an instrument constructed on the same principles, for the compression of the artery in cases of aneurism. [The Italian tourniquet, Signorim''s, or horse-shoe compress, acts on the same principle of only causing pressure on two opposite points; but as it only half encircles the limb, it has been found wanting in steadiness and security. Mr. Skey's tourniquet is intended to obviate this disadvantage. It is composed of two semicircles of steel, one fit- ting into the other by running in a groove. Each half is fixed by a spring catt-h to the other, and may be enlarged or reduced at will to any size re- quired. In the centre of each semicircle is the pad for pressure and counterpressnre, the former being provided with a screw. {Op. Sarg. p. 328.)] TRACHEOTOMY. TpaxeTo, the windpipe, and Te^ii/O), to cut. The operation of opening the trachea. [The term Bronchotomy {^p6yxos, the wind- pipe, and T€>i/£<>, to cut) is the general term used to denote all the operations undertaken to open the air tube at any part of its extent, and trache- otomy is thus one of its sub-divisions. Tracheotomy is the oldest of all the operations performed on the windpipe, having been snggested, according to Galen, by Asclepiades of Bithj-nia, about B.C. 100. His mode of operating is unknown. It was ap- apparently repeatedly performed by Antyllus of Rome (about a.d. 340), whose procedure Paulus Aegineta describes. Ccelius Aurelianus and Are- teus also performed it. It was not, however, till the publication, in the Memoirs of the Royal Aca- demy of Surgery, at the beginning of this century, of two pape'rs on the subject by Louis, that the true value and comparatively small danger of the operation were known. In opening the windpipe we may wish to fiilhl a temporary object, or obtain a permanent orifice. There are many purposes which an artificial open- ing niav serve. . ^ 1st. "it may be required to admit air into the lungs when from any cause the communication with the atmosphere is obstructed. This may be due to swelling in the mouth itself or throat, as en- largement of the tongue or tonsils; any closure ot the pharynx or glottis by inflammatory swelling or cfTusion; or by growths existing either e.^ternal to the canal and pressing upon it, or filling up Its interior. If such sources of obstruction cannot be quickly re-