-938 VENEREAL DISEASE. ■from healing, and often produces a much worse disease tlian lhat I'rom which it originated. Such new dispobitions may lead to the growth of tumors. They are more frequent in men than ■women, and generally occur only when the in- flammation has been violent from some peculiarity of the parts or constitution. [Many of the cases here alluded to would in the present day be classed with tertiary symptoms, others with can- cerous affections.] Among the diseases m question, Mr. Hunter notices those continued, and often increased, m- flamraations, suppurations, and ulcerations, which become diffused through the whole prepuce, and also along the common skin of the penis, which becomes of a purple hue, attended with such a general thickening of the cellular membrane as makes the whole organ appear considerably en- larged. The ulceration on the inside of the pre- puce will sometimes increase, and run between the skin and the body of the penis, and eat holes throuoh different places, till the whole is reduced to a number of ragged sores. The glans often shares the same fate, till more or less of it is gone. Fre- quentU', the urethra in this situation is wholly de- stroyed by ulceration, and the urine is discharged some way farther back. The ulceration, if un- checked, at length destroys all the parts. In this acute case, prompt relief is demanded; but o.ten the proper mode of treatment cannot be at once determined, owing to our ignorance with respect to the exact nature of the peculiar cause of the disease Mr. Hunter states that the decoction of sarsapariUa is often of service, when given in large quantities; and that the extract of henilock and sea-bathing are sometimes capable of effect- ing a cure. According to my own experience the omission of mercury is here the most essential point. Sometimes, after a chancre has healed, the cicatrix breaks out again, and puts on the appear- ances of the preceding sore. Occasionally, similar diseases break out in different places from that of the cicatrix. Mr. Hunter believes that they differ from a chancre in generally not spreading 80 fiist nor so far ; in not being so painful nor so much inflamed; in not having such hard bases as venereal sores have, and in not producing buboes He is of opinion that they are not venereal, and he states that they are very apt to recur. Another disposition, induced by the previous occurrence of chancres, is that to excrescences, or cutaneous tumors, called warts. These are frequently considered not simply as a consequence of the venereal poison, but as possessed of its specific disposition, and therefore, says Mr. Hunter, surgeons have recourse to ^lercury for the cure of them ; and it is said that such treat- ment often removes them. This eminent pmc- titioner never saw mercury produce this effect although the medicine was given m sufhc.ent quantity to cure recent chancres and a lues venerea in the same person. (See Wart.; When a bubo arises while the constitution is tinder the influence of a sufficient quantity ol mercury to cure a chancre, which medicine has also been rubbed into the lower extremity, on the same side as the bubo, Mr. Hunter suspects that the swelling in the groin is not venereal, but is produced by the mercury. In such a case, he always preferred conveying mercury into the system in some other manner. Tlie foregoing criterion of the bubo not being venereal, I think would not be commonly admitted at the present daj'. Dr. CoUes has observed that, in some cases, " mercury will most unexpectedly take a sudden and severe hold of the system, inducing profuse ptyalism within the first three or four days, and, as a consequence, the almost instantaneous healing of a chancre : such healimj of tlie cltancre, however, is not a cure of the venereal disease. For we shall find that a bubo will now make its ap. pearance, perhaps at the very time thnt the chancre has thus suddenly healed : this buLo will proceed with unusual rapidity to suppuration, if we do not at once desist from mercury. I have not tried by experiment whether such bubo requires a further use of mercury. I can only say that I have always acted on the supposition of its being required; and as soon as the salivation has sub- sided, I resumed the use of mercury in such a man- ner as to affect the mouth again, but more slowly and more gently." [Ah: Colles, On Ven.Dis. p. 81.) I have mentioned the tendency of a chancre on the frsenum, or in the fossa between the corona glandis and the fraenum, to perforate, and frequently to destroy, the latter. The usual plan, directly an aperture is thus formed, has been to divide the remainder of the part completely through, as re- commended by Mr. Hunter. To this practice Mr. Wallace strongly objects:—"I affirm (saj'g lie) that, in nineteen cases out of twenty, if the patient applies before the ulcer has perforated the frsenum, its perforation may be prevented by ein- ploying the caustic (nitrate of silver); and I still further affirm that, if such patient has not applied until after its perforation, we may, if we think it right, still save the remaining portion by cauterising^ with the nitrate of silver, the sides of the opening. {On Ven. Dis. p. 95.) Dr. CoUes differs, however, from Mr. Wallace, and insists upon the advantages of dividing the fraenum as soon as it is perforated, and especially because the sore will not granulatS till this has been done. (Op. cit. p. 94.) Every surgeon of experience must nave seen instances of chancre seated at the very orifice the urethra, and become acquainted with the great difficulty of healing them; and with the fact tha^ after being healed, a constriction of the urethral orifice is apt to ensue. " In treating such 8 case (says Dr. Colles), we should use every effort to prevent the extension of the ulceration to the entire circle of the orifice ; for unless i entirely encircle the orifice, contraction wi 1 not follow. This can with certainty be accomplishett by touching the ulcer, as soon as it begins to ex- tend, with the colourless muriate of antmiony. or with nitric acid." Dr. Colles is confident hat he has seen chancres seated altogether withm the urethra: Such cases /'"^"^''^f" nnstaken for mild gono,-rhcea." I ■"'^^f^'^/^ ^ remark by Dr. Colles because it harmonises with that of M.Ricord and some other practitioners, and has an immediate relation to one o''/"'" f ^ disputed points relating to venereal complaints, already noticed. e . Sometimes, after the v«""f\, <=^'^"^,^e/on- primary sore has been removed, the p ep ce con tinues thickened and elongated, so S^*"/, cannot be uncovered. In this case "un « recommends trying the steam of ^f^J^ hemlock fomentxitions, and cinnabar fumigation ,