INFLAMMATION of his work. He attempted to constriict a theory of disease from a study of health, and his attempt has ail air of grandeur, though magnis excidit ausis for want of the proper data. His permanent claims to respect as regards inflammation are founded, not on his philosophy nor his science, but on his great practical sagacity. He separated "repair" from inflammation ; he taught that " immediate union " takes place without inflammation ; he laid emphasis on the distinction between injuries with wounds and without, and the danger in the former that the blood may lose its living prin- ciple ;" he thus evidently foresaw the basis of the antiseptic treatment, and, further, anticipated Sir J. Y, Simpson in pointing out that needles and ligatures tend to promote suppuration in wounds. To Hunter's teaching is due the care of English surgeons to avoid suppuration and promote healing by the first intention, and the success of ovariotom)-, in which this union is the cardinal point. His observations on scabbing point in the same direction. By his influence chiefly, the farrago of complex applications which disgraced the pages of the earlier surgeons was abandoned for simpler remedies. But it was Hunter's general character as a philo- sopher and as the founder of the Museum which caused his memory to be venerated, and amongst his pupils were all the surgeons who attained eminence in London during the early generation of this cen- tury—Abernetliy, Sir Astley Cooper, Sir E. Home, Cline, Lynn, Sir A. Carlisle, Wilson ; from them, the cullus of Hunter passed to J. H. Green, Tra- vers, Lawrence. Yet it is most certain that they abandoned one of their master's cardinal doctrines, the separation of repair from adhesive inflammation. Little advance was made during the 40 years which succeeded Hunter's death, and in which his doctrines, in English schools, were held in una- bated reverence. We must, as matter of history, not omit to notice three Methodist systems, which appeared during the Hunterian period. One, that of John Brown, who instead of contemplating living man as made of flesh and blood, considered him as a compound of excitability and stimulus. His doc- trines were taken up by Rasori, Tommasini, Gia- comini, and the Italian contra-stimulant school, who divide diseases into two kinds, sthenic and asthenic. There was also the doctrine of Broussais, who as- cribes all general disease to some local inflammation. Brown's practice was "incendiary;'' his chief remedy brandy. The others were " vampyres. ' Subsection 3.—The Early Microscopic SCHOUL. 63 Medical theories are always revolutionised by new means of physical investigation. This is made clear by the influence of the microscope on the doctrine of inflammation. The exist- ence of the blood globules was made known by the early microscopists of the seventeenth century, and the circulation of the blood in the tails of fishes and in feet and mesentery of frogs were demonstrated by Mnlpighi, Hooke, Leuwenhook, Cheselden, and Haller; but a search into their pages gives us little that concerns our special sul)- ject. Fabre, in 1770, repudiated the doctrine that obstruction could be the essential condition of inflammation, by observing the freedom with which the circulation is curried on iii the network of capillaries, and how, if obstructed in one chan- nel, the current oscillates and finds its way by another. In his excellent ^ssa/s surla Pliysioloijie, Putliologie el Thtrapeiilique{VM\& 1770), he gives the axiom, ' Taction des nerfs attire le sang vers le lieu oil ils sont stimulus,' as one result of a care- ful series of observations on the mesentery of the frog. Of Hewson and his labours on the blood we need not again speak, bat may observe that mi- croscopical observations were thoroughly discredited by Hunter, who believed that the imagination was called in to supply what the ej-e failed to see. (On ilie Blood, S(C., part i., cap. i., § 4.) Nor need this be wondered at when we think of Sir E. Home, and his observations on muscular fibres con- structed out of a linear series of blood globules. iPldl. Tram. 1818, p. 129.) Early in the present century, however, pathologists again took up the task, amongst whom may be enumerated Wilson Philip, Sir C. Hastings, John Thomson (1809), author of the Lectures on Inflammation, Gendrin, and others, some account of whose labours may be found at p. 2"2 supra. Hastings and Wilson Philip virtually clothe the doctrines of Boerhaave in the jargon of CuUen. They make inflammation to consist in a debility of the capillaries, followed by increased action of the larger arteries, and terminated so soon as the capil- lary vessels are so far excited, and the larger arteries so far weakened by the preternatural action excited in them, that the power of the capil- laries is again in the proportion of vis a tergo. Again, Hastings declares that " congestion should stimulate, by its distension, the blood-vessels to frequent but ineffectual efforts to carry forward the excess of blood with which they are loaded." {On Mucous Membrajies, ^c. Land. 1820, p. 74.) It will be noticed that Hastings and Philip speak of action as if it were power, and as if debility of capillaries was cured by an excitement which weakened the arteries ; whilst in their notions of obstruction they are far behind the knowledge of Fabre in the eighteenth century. Mr. Dowler (il/erf. Chir. Trans., vol. xii., for 1822) holds that serum, fibrin, pus, and red globules are poured out in inflammation succes- sively as it becomes more acute ; and as the dia- meters of the blood-vessels are enlarged. But that if the blood-vessels of a part, as of a mucous membrane, are naturally large, pus escapes the sooner. He does not prove that there are any open mouths of vessels, nor does he show why fibrin is not effused more frequently than it is by mucous membranes. Dr. B. G. Babington {Med. Chir. Trans., 1831, vol, xvi.) thinks that morbid effusions are of these sorts : 1. Mere water effused in the form of vapour; which he believes to be the condition of the serous membranes in health, and of the fluid effused in atonic hydrocephalus and other non-inflanmiatory cases. 2. Effusion of "liquor sanguinis "—a now familiar term introduced by Babington—with less water in proportion to the intensity of the inflam- mation. He believes that in the majority of cases serum is not effused per so, but formed by a de- position of the fibrin from tho liquor sanguinis- and that wherever serum is effused, fibrin will be found somewhere near, either as flakes in thosanim, or as false membrane, or as gelatinous exudation, holding the serum in its meshes; and that the fibrin is not observed oftcner, because its quantity is so small