480 PROSTATE GLAND, tion to the perinaeum, and also by hip-baths. (See Treatment of Hypertrophy of the Prostate.) Suppuration may take place in the prostate, and almost always in the foim of abscess. In the diffuse form it is very rare, except in extravasation of urine from any cause. Acute prostatitis, not ending in resolution, not infrequently goes on to the formation of abscess. The symptoms are severe; and its presence may be suspected if after the first few days the acute symptoms do not subside, if the pain and difficulty of micturition and defffication increase, if rigors occur, and the patient is very restless and feverish, complaining of great tension, and of a pulsating sensation in the perineeum and at the neck of the bladder. The fact is determined, if by rectal examination, the swelling there increases, and commimicates to the tip of the finger a sensation of softness and elas- ticity, in place of the firmness and resistance which were noted before. The natural course of abscess in the substance of the prostate is generally spontaneous evacuation by the urethra. I have seen it occur immediately after the passing of a catheter, when the patient's condition, in conse- quence of the tumefaction caused by its presence, has rendered instrumental assistance necessary in order to empty the bladder. Occasionally the matter is evacuated by the rectum; and the result is perhaps as favourable, generally speaking, as through the urethra. It may be followed by a troublesome urethro-rectal fistula, but not neces- sarily, or even usually so. On the other hand, although the opening of the prostatic abscess into the urethra may soon close, yet if this does not readily take place, the sac will probably long remain open, and become a receptacle for urine, giving rise to fresh collections of matter around, from the in- flammation so produced. Extravasation rarely, if ever, has to be feared, the parts exposed to urine being defined and thickened by exudation matter. Nevertheless, in many cases evacuation by the last named course, that is, by urethra, is that on which we must rely. The only treatment we can adopt in order to prevent it, matter being already formed, is to make an artificial opening in the perinteum as early as possible, with some boldness, in the median line, in-the direction of the prostate, which is per- fectly ascertainable by rectal examination. Thi forefinger of the left hand having been introduced into the bowel, a long, straight, and narrow bis- toury, the cutting-edge of which is up wards, should be thrust into the raphe', about three-quarters of an inch anterior to the anus in the known direction of the swelling, and the incision enlarged in straight line upwards, to a slight extent, so as to give a fair patulous opening for the discharge of matter. The depth to which such an incision must be carried cannot be less than an inch and half, it may be two inches; less than the former will be probably useless, and if so, unnecessary and injurious. The discharge of matter from an acute abscess of the prostate is sometimes followed by long-con tinned suppuration. Chronic abscess maj' arise also by itbelF, though not very frequently; and it may occur as the result of confirmed or neglected stricture of the urethra. It is by no means always easy or even possible to diagnose the existence of a chronic abscess of the prostate dui-ing life; in some instances, how- ever, it may be recognised by rectal examination A part of the prostate may yield a sensation of fluc- tuation to the finger in the rectum; and if this is obvious in a case where the history and sj'raptoms have been such as to render the occurrence of chronic abscess there probable, it is advisable to take means for evacuating it. This may be done by passing a grooved sound into the bladder, and making an incision into the spot detected, a pro- ceeding which is rendered easy by the support which the sound affords to the parts; a rectal speculum may be used or not as the surgeon pre- fers. It by no means necessarily follows that we are to open the urethra in these cases, although it has been frequently done without producing any mischief in the shape of resulting fistula. Ulceration.—The urethral mucous membrane of the prostate suffers ulceration as a consequence of previously-existing lesions. Pure idiopathic ulcera- tion is probably extremely rare. Thus, when an abscess opens into the urethra,ulceration takes place, and this generally remains for some time. A like condition exists in the discharge of tubercle, or in the sprouting of malignant growth. It may be occa- sioned by aggravated stricture, and also during urinary retention and extravasation. After all, there is nothing special in these forms of ulcera- tion as affecting the prostate; it is a morbid action affecting alike its tissues and those of all other soft parts in the organism when their vitality is impaired by certain morbid conditions, local or general. Hypertrophy of the prostate.—Among men who have passed the fifty-fifth year, or there- about, the prostate frequently enlarges by a slow and gradual process, and mostly produces more or less obstruction to the discharge of urine from the bladder. This enlargement is not a pro- duct of inflammation, nor of any of its results, but is due to an increased formation of the normal tissues of the prostate, and must therefore be classed as an hypertrophy of that organ. It was believed by Sir Everard Home and Sir B. Brodie, that this hypertrophy was the necessary accompaniment of old age. {Lectures on the Urin- ary Organs, 4 ed. pp. 163-166, 186-1U7.) But the writer has shown, by a large number of dissections, that this is by no means the case {Med. Chir. Tratis. vol. xl.); that, on the contrary, only one in three of male subjects after 60 years of age exhibits by dissection some sign of enlargement; that one in eight only exhibit symptoms during life; and that many reach the most advanced ages without manifest- ing the slightest trace of hypertrophy. The first external character generally observable in a hypertrophied prostate is undue fulness, and an unnatural tendency to rotundity. Either lateral lobe may predominate, or the median portion may be largely developed. The term " median portion " is preferred to that of " third lobe," employed by Sir E. Home, and will be used in future as signi- fying the part hitherto so termed in this country. It is the term employed in France, where, as well as by many anatomists here, the title of lobe as signifying a normal division of the healthy pros- tate is denied. For a full discussion of the grounds on wiiich the title of third lobe is rejected, see Medico CIdrurqical Transactions, vol. xl., also " Diseases of ti.c Prostate," by H. Thompson, p. Th'c'outline of the gland is often very irregular