104 • IRIS, INFLAMMATION OF. Syphilitic form of the disease, but it is very common to observe minute dots on the inner surface of the cornea in iritis, showing that the delicate structure lining this pari is involved, though in a remote and slight degree, in the disease. Iritis is sometimes found in a chronic form from its commencement, in which case it presents a peculiar and well-marked train of symptoms. It is insidious in its origin and slow in its progress ; the pain is very slight, and the patient's attention is chiefly attracted by the dimness of vision that attends it. Both eyes are usually attacked, not simultaneously, but in succession, the first being more seriously involved than the other. In this modification of the disease, the surface of the iris presents a peculiar, thickened, raised, velvety aspect, the villous appearance not being quite uniform, but rather more distinct at one part than another. The pupil is rather small and irregular, and adherent all around to the capsule, ■which is more or less opaque, presenting white patches and black uveal deposits, forming tags to hold down the margin of the pupil to the surface of the capsule, and often giving the impression of a more impaired state of vision than is found to exist, upon putting the matter to the test of ex- periment. It is always necessary to use caution in expressing an opinion to a patient on this point, as confidence is impaired by making an assertion which the patient's experience of his own powers falsifies. Although the iris is so extensively coated with lymph, and the pupil is adherent throughout to the capsule, a slight movement may be seen to occur on the application of the stimulus of light, not to such an extent as to influence the pupil, but simply appearing as if moved by its own inherent elasticity. This form of iritis may gene- rally be traced to some syphilitic tamt of a remote date, and groups with a train of symptoms usually described as belonging to the tertiary form of T'heVognosis of iritis is favourable as a general rule. There are few diseases of so marked a cha- racter that yield to suitable treatment so readily and frequentlv when seen at an early stage, and no special and'unfavourable complication exists. Treatment of Iritis.—We have here two impor- tant objects in view, (a) to arrest the deposit of fibrine that is threatening the integrity and utility of the organ;'(6) to obtain the absorption of such as already exists. As a means of effecting these obiects there is no agent that can be compared in rapidity, efficiency, and certainty with mercury. The simple and almost single object you have in view in the treatment of an ordinary case ot iritis, in which no constitutional peculiarity exists, is to get your patient fully and quickly under he influ- ence of rnercury. For this purpose, ^'^l"™;'' " doses of either one or two grams, combined with a quarter of a grain of opium, is per inps the read e nd best'method. The «"3rcurial trea^ ment requires careful watching, on the one hand to ensure the effect of the medicine, ^"d' ""^ '^/^ other, to limit it so as not to-^'^''^ ^^^^^ too f;r and induce profuse salivation. Evidence of mercurial action upon the "'""J ' 3' ;t but nothing is gained by carrying it Jey°"d tlm point; for, though the restoration ot " organ as the eye justifies the active emploj ment of this drug, we must not lose sight of the consti u- tion of our patient, and of the permanent evil that may result from its rash and imprudent exhibition. There seems no reason to suppose that trau- matic, that suppurative, and that ulcerative in- flammations in gineral yield to mercury. In cases where the constitutional powers are at low ebb, we must adhere to two important practical points: the one is, that adhesive inflammation pro- duces its worst results and its most rapid and extensive effects in feeble and broken constitutions; and the other, that mercury may and frequently does act rather as a poison to the system than as an antidote to the disease, and may thus actually aggravate that condition which it was administered to remove, and which with a less debilitated frame it would have cured. Our first effort, then, must be to build up the powers in every available man- ner. In the face of this acute disease we must administer tonics, stimulants, and a liberal diet, and as our patient regains strength, mercury niay be carefully insinuated into the system, in such a way as to produce the least possible amount of irritation, for which mercurial inunction will be found the best remedj'. As it begins to affect the gums, it will be seen that the constitution now bears'that which before irritated and depressed it. The chronic form of iritis is a far less satisfactory form to treat. It usually comes before the notice of the surgeon when the surface of the ins is ma- terially changed, when the pupil is small and more or less adherent, and when the capsule of the lens is somewhat impaired in its transparency. Such a state of things seriously interferes with vision, and it is seldom we can succeed in restoring the parts to their state of health. This modifi- tatiou of iritis occurs almost invariably in persons whose constitutions are enfeebled by a long course of disease, and, in some cases, by injudicious treatment and insufficient nourishment, and who are very intolerant of mercury. Every available means must be had recourse to, with a view ot improving the general health, and, at a subsequent period, small doses of the bichloride of mercurj-, about one-twentieth of a grain, combined with sarsaparilla, two or three times a day, will be use- ful. Cases sometimes occur in which even this small dose of mercury cannot be borne. Under these circumstances, the iodide of potassium occupies the next rank in value, in doses of five grains, three imes a day. Sometimes sarsaparilla alone appears Z useful combined with medical treatment; a hinge of ai^r, particularly to the seaside, and, above nil a sea vovaae, are powerful auxiliaries. The uaumaric and strumous forms of iritis differ from the specific in the absence of any distinct ubercles, and in being far less under the control of mercurv. In the former, where it is recent and acute it fs chieflv to be relieved by the mternal use of opium, and by soothing applications and depletions: in the latter, the progress of the ease is generally verv tedious, the evidences of the disease very liniited,"consisting chiefly in one or two pom s of .adhesion and a slight dimness of the capsule and some thickening and dullness of the iris. Mer- cury cannot usually be well borne, and reliance must chiefly be placed in such constitutional reat- ment as may be indicated by the strumous diathesis. IrUis is occasionally met with in infancy, and very readilv yields to mercury. r ■ -i- j i A regards the local treatment of iritis, dep e- ;;^;:r:o^;:dCSSraS sometimes attended