332 NECROSIS. ■witnessed by Acrel. {Cldnirgisclie Vor/alla von iSFwnqi, vol. i. p. 194.) [Mr. Savory took away the whole shaft of the radius for necrosis in a boy; at the end of eiglit monllis it was nearly restored, although the new bone was smaller than the old one. {Med. Times and 'Gazette, vol. ii. J 857.) Nearly similar ex- amples have also been recorded by Blandin and Robert.] Partial reproductions of the thigh-bone are re- corded by Wodel, Battus, Koschius, Hoffmann, Scultetus!! Diemerbroeck, Wright, Fabricius Ilil- danus, Raw, Dobyns, M'Kenzie, Ludwig, David, Bouss'elin, Larre}% Hutchinson, &c. Dr. M'Kenzie relates the case of a boy thirteen years of age who liad been suffering for a long time with necrosis of the femur. One morning he felt the bone loose, and forcibly pulled it away, thus extracting a piece 7i inches long. On recover}', the thigh was as lirm as the other, only a little thicker and more curved. {Med. Ohs. and Inquiries, vol. ii.) [Stanley mentions an instance of necrosis of the noL-k and a portion of the shaft of the femur, which exfoliated, and the patient recovered with a firm limb, but little shortened.] "We may infer that regeneration is more frequent in the tibia than any other bone, from the accumu- lated facts, mentioned by Albucasis, La Marche, Muralto, De La Motte, Eliinchuys, Ruysch, Tac- coni, Laing, Johnson, Hunter, David, Boehmer, Sigwart, Tli. Bartholine, Hoffmann, Saviard, Le Dran, Duverney, Trioen, Gunther, Ludwig, Mi- chael, Bousselin, Weidmann, Russell, Wiiately, DesauU, &c., and from the evidence afforded by every Pathological Museum. Weidmann saw a shoemaker who, after much suffering, extracted, with his own hands, the greatest part of the diaphysis of the tibia; yet, the loss was so well repaired, that the man could walk afterwards nearly as ably as ever. {De Ne- crosi Ossium, p. 29.) [Cases mav be multiplied where the whole shaft of the tibia has perished, separated from its epiphyses, and been replaced by one of new forma- tion, which has proved quite as serviceable and almost as perfect as the original bone. When the bones of the lower extremity have been the seat of necrosis, sufficient time must be allowed for the newly formed osseous tissue to become consolidated, lest the superincumb'.'nt weight of the bod}', or the action of the muscles should cause them to yield or fracture. Should this latter accident occur, union will readilv take place, although more slowly than in a healthy limb. Stanley records a case of necrosis of the fibula, in which the reproduction was perfect; and Robert found the same bone more than half restored at the end of a year after its removal for necrosis. {Wagner, op. cii. appen- ' " We are not to imagine (says Weidmann), that these regenerations happen by chance : experi- ments made upon living animals by Troja, Blu- ineiibach, Koehler, Desault, and myself, prove that they invariably follow certani laws. Subsequent observers have repeated these ex- periments, which all tend to show that whenever the medullary structure of the long bones of pigeons, or dogs, is destroyed, these bones become affected with necrosis, and are afterwards reproduced totlie lull extent of their destruction. [They have also ascertained that when a portion of bone is extir- pated, if the periosteum is preserved, new bone will completely replace that which has been taken away. {Stanley, Syme, Floxirens, Wagner, &c.)] The observations and experiments, above alluded to, further prove that it is the long bones which are usually reproduced, though the flat ones are not entirely destitute of the power of regeneration; since experience fully evinces, that, when a por- tion of the skull is removed, either by a wound, by disease, or by the trepan, nature endeavours to re- store the deficiency; the edges of the aperture ex- tend themselves by means of a bony substance, which is furnished by the periosteum, the dura mater, and cranium hsaU. {Te7ion, Mem. de I'Acad, des Sciences, 1758, p. 41-2, 413. 415, 416. 418.) But, still the reproduction is imperfect, as an unossi- fied place is nearly always left, even when the bone has lost only a small piece, such as is taken out by the trephine ; and when the destruction of" the cranium is very extensive, there is seldom any at- tempt at reproduction. This fact, which is proved by the observations of Savard, Pott, Sabatier, &c., is particularly noticed by Sir A. Cooper. In Uni- versity College Museum, however, there is a fine specimen of the partial regeneration of a consider- able portion of the skull, which has been removed by trephining, forty-five years before the death of the individual. [CuUerier also records a case of partial ossification of the dura mater after an ex- tensive necrosis of the cranium. {Annuaire Med. Chir. des Hopilatuv.)] [There is much diversity of opinion as to the amount and mode of repair in the cranial bones after necrosis or operation. Stanley asserts that re- production never occurs in them, owing to the dif- ference in the relation between them and the dura mater and pericranium, when compared with that which exists between the periosteum and the other bones: he considers that the pericranium has no tendency to form now bone, and the dura mater to a very slight extent only. {Op. cil. p. 114.) Gerdy writes, that " reproduction does not take place in the bones of the cranium, where it is_ ha- bitually so imperfect, that it can scarcely be said to exist;" the outer table may, however, sometimes be replaced by an irregular bony formation, and the inner by a lamellar ossification of the dura mater. {Op. cil. p. 234.) According to Nclaton, when the pericranium is preserved, the external table, or even the whole thickness of the bone, may be reproduced: but, if that membrane be destroyed, no repair tal;es place beyond a thickening of the dura mater with, some- times, a calcareous incrustation upon it. {Op. cil. vol. i. p. 621.) . . , , „ Rokitansky says, that openings in the skull are closed by a ""fibroid plate," which generally ossifies incompletely, or not at all : the scanty formation of callus in these bones has not yet been satisfac- torily explained. {Op. cil. vol. iii. p. 218.) Dubreuil is of opinion that the osseous deposit depends upon the pericranium and dura mater chiefly, although the cranial bones have some slight share in it: and the regeneration of these bones,after disease or injury, is very imperfect, in consequence of their membranes being usually involved at the same time; he examined a man, who died eicht Ycars after trephining, and found the hole m the skull filled up by a fibrous membrane ; w-hilst the external table of the osfrontis, which had suf- fered a b'ss of substance from the same accident,