942 VENEREAL DISEASE. " be subdued, and tliat tlie constitution would be less likely to be contiiminated. At the same time, he admitted that the situation of many buboes is such as not to have much surface for absorption beyond them ; for instance, the buboes on the body of the penis, arising from chancres on the glans or pre- puce. This principle was much insisted upon by Delpech. (See Chir. Cliniqne, t. i. p. 301.) Since venereal buboes are a consequence of cbancres, or primary venereal sores ; and since glandular swellings in the groin may take place from other kinds of sores, or local irritations, and even from various constitutional causes, while modern surgeons profess their incapacity always to pronounce the character either of a primary sore, or a bubo, by its first appearance and progress ; it is evident that the same difficulties present them- selves here as in cases of primary sores, respecting the principles by which the treatment should be guided. It is likewise to be remembered that huljoes, when decidedly syphilitic, are not, as Mr. Hunter imagined, absolutely incurable ivilhoui mer- cury. The firm confidence which Mr. Hunter, and Delpech subsequently, had in the doctrine that benefit was derived from the practice of rubbing mercury into surfaces, from which it would be conveyed directly to the diseased glands, so as both to resolve the swelling and preserve the constitution, is not now regarded as an unquestion- able opinion. As Mr. Bacot has judiciously re- marked, there is some inconsistence in Mr. Hunter's own statements upon this point ; for, in one place, he affirms that mercury, applied to the legs and thifha for the cure of a chancre, will sometimes cau°se, instead of dispersing, a bubo. (P. 404.) And Mr. Bacot adds his own belief, that mercury as frequently promotes the suppuration of buboes as their dispersion. {On Syphilis, p. 74.) With respect to the practice of trying to make the mer- cury pass through the diseased glands, Mr. Hunter rather contradicts himself in another page, where he confesses his own doubts of its utility in sup- purated buboes. However, he admits that mer- cury alone is not always capable of elfecting the cure of such buboes as are deemed venereal ; and when the inflammation rises very high, he approves of bleeding, purging, and fomentations. When the inflammation is erysipelatous, he has a high opinion of bark ; and when it is scrofulous, he praises hemlock, and poultices made with sea- water. He was also aware of the fact of emetics sometimes occasioning the absorption of the matter of buboes after it is distinctly formed. If there is generally great difficulty in pro- nouncing at first as to the question whether a primary' sore be syphilitic or not, the same difficulty must occur with respect to glandu- lar swellings excited by it ; and on this ac- count, and from the encouraging circumstances vthat all buboes may be cured without mercury and that the course of the venereal disease, unre sisted by that mineral, is not so terrible and in- curable as used to be supposed, some surgeons, instead of having immediate recourse to mercury prefer a little delay, in order to see whether the swelling will subside or not under the use of ciimtuon antiphlogistic means. Thus Dr. Hennen disiipprnves of using mercury immediately a bub presents itself ; and he states that the same prin ciples which guide him in the primary ulcers would have the same, if not greater, force in th case of buboes. " In their irritable state (snyt he) I consider mercury altogether inadmissible." [On Military Surgery, 2nd ed. p. SI8.) But, in order to exhibit the contradictory advice delivered by different writers on this point, I may contrast the practice of Mr. Wallace with that of Dr. Hennen. The primary syphilitic bubo, in its first stage, may, according to Mr. Wallace, be re- solved, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, by mercury, assisted by rest, gentle laxatives, absti- nence, and cooling lotions. Therefore, says he, as resolution should be our object, we are, without hesitation, to employ mercurial treatment in all such cases, provided there be no contra-indicating symptoms. In the second stage, or when the surrounding cellular tissue is involved, Mr. Wal- lace is an advocate for putting the patient rapidly under the action of mercury. When the bubo is more advanced, he admits that it is more difficult to bring about resolution ; yet it seems to him that it may still often be accomplished by bringing the constitution, with the greatest possible rapidity^ under the influence of mercury, which is joined^ in full habits, with general blood-letting, large doses of tartrate of antimony, saturnine lotions, rest, and abstinence. Even when the bubo had suppurated, Mr. Wallace frequently demonstrated to his pupils the power of mercury to eff'ect reso- ution. The following consideration guidedhimin selecting cases in which the attempt to resolve the bubo might be judiciously made :—" Should the process of suppuration have begun early; should the tumor be attended by considerable pain and heat, and should it exist in a plethoric or sanguineous habit ; I despair (says he) entirely of causing the matter to be absorbed, or of resolv- ing the bubo. But, on the other hand, should the process of suppuration have advanced more slowly, having been long in commencing ; should the bubo be attended with comparatively little pain and heat, or inflammation ; should the skin covering it be somewhat flaccid or wrinkled, with strong propensity to desquamate ; and should the habit of the patient be less full or plethoric; I do not despair of causing the resolution of the bubo, particularly if mercury has not been pre- viously used." Here, also, Mr. Wallace enjoins the full and rapid action of mercury; the quantity of which is afterwards to be diminished, lest a very troublesome degree of salivation, or mercurial cachexia be produced ; but a mild action of it is still to be kept up for some days. (See Wallace, op. cit. p. 356-359.) When a bubo has already burst, Mr. Wallace lays it down as a general rule, that then mercury should not be employed until the stage of granu- lation has commenced ; and " for the same rea- we refrain from its employment m the In fact, if It son as ulcerative stage of a primary ulcer. r ■, „ be used in this period, we run some risk of exciimg an increase of the ulcerative process. But grea advantage may be obtained from the application oi the nitrate of silver to the whole ulcerating surlace, for this valuable remedy has the power of stoppi"b the ulcerating process of a bubo, as well as ot tn« primary ulcer." (Op. cit. p. 364.) . Although the correctness of some o the pnnci pU-s by which Mr. Hunter regulated h.s pra.txe in buboes must now be questi.mable. 'n"^""'^" " he calculates too much on the absolute for mercury, and on the usefulness ot muKiiio