6 IMPOTENCE has Lrought about tlie complaint. It is certainly not by a few doses of pliysic, or the administration of any stimulant or quack remedy, that wo expect restitution of power, even where there is no physical lesion or condition which renders the case hopeless. There is great difficulty, however, in applying even the proper treatment to these melan- choly cases. The hardest part of the medical man's task often is to rouse the patient from the depression which impotence induces, and to over- come tlie dreadful self-accusation which unnerves most of these sufferers. Diagnosis.—Before marriage It is often very difficult for a medical man to decide whether an individual is truly impotent or not. Lallemand points out the most obvious diagnostic sign, when he says the power of easily maintaining perfect continence and entire quiescence of the sexual organs and desires, " are fair grounds for presum- ing that there is little if any energy in the gene- rative system, for if the semen was retained in the vesiculse seminaleS, it would produce from time to time energetic or at least perceptible effects." (Vol. ii. p. 245.) So vague a test as this should be of course ap- plied with the greatest caution: for instance, a healthy man has his organs well developed, suffers only occasionally from emissions, has never abused his sexual powers, and is subject occasionally in the early morning to erections; then however con- tinent he may be, and however easy he finds it to remain so, we may usually pronounce him potent There are, however, other cases which do not admit of such ready solution, as the following in stance shows:—A middle-aged man, with deep marks under each eye, wished to know if he might marry. He was engaged to a person of about his own age, and they were mutually attached. He had abused himself early in life, but had iiever committed fornication. Emissions took place once a week, not very abundant, and there were occasional erections in the morning; but the testes were small and flaccid, although he had worn a varicocele ring : the penis was also small, being as my patient stated, not large even when erec- tion took place. He was informed that there were serious doubts as to the propriety of his marrying, but that no positive opinion could be given on the subject. Unsatisfactory as such a dictum must be, anything is better than the vile test which some recommend such patients to try, viz., to commit fornication in order to ascer- tain if they are competent to marry. Now, such a test is not only fallacious, but is often more dan gerous. What, for instance, is more probable than that a nervous man, who, for the first time, meets a loose woman, goes to a strange house, and is frightened by the disgrace which may attend any exposure of his folly, should find himself unable to consummate the act. The only greater misfor tune that can befall him, is to be dragged subse quently and consequently into the liands of the quacks. If, however, the fact of impotence is discovered, we must push our diagnosis farther, and enquire whether the impotence extends to the whole act of copulation or only to some part of it, that is, whether the complaint docs not depend upon some- thing amiss in the acts of erection, or emission, or in the condition of the ejaculated semen. It is most important that the surgeon, in investi- gating the local symptoms, should discover which of these functions is imperfectly performed. _ Treatment.— The proper treatment is then no longer a problem of such extreme difficulty. Where impotence is curable at all, the general rules as to the requisite treatment can be comprised in a very few words. To give the system rest; to improve the general health, so that the nervous centres shall have time, opportunity, and encou- ragement to rally, if it be possible; to invigorate the muscular powers, so that both voluntary and in- voluntary muscles may regain their tone — are among the most important maxims to be borne in mind; at the same time it is necessary to avoid as much as possible any local or other stimuli which merely excite without strengthening. In any curable case it is probable that the nervous_sys- tem has been over-excited beyond the natural limits i which a phlegmatic constitution imposes. The i one object is to restore the nervous power, or : rather to allow it to restore itself—not to excite or : exhaust it still farther. The diet should, I need i hardly add, be of the most wholesome andl nutritious kind; but we should not forget the I true old proverb — sme Cerere el Bacclio friget\ Vemis. By means such as these the sexual organs Willi probably, in all simple cases, become in common I with other functions equal to their desires. Some, however, not content with these simple measures, have devised remedies for the piu-pose of stimulating the flagging powers. No doubt can exist that, in certain persons, when the affection arises from some temporary cause—more cspecia.lly in the timid hypochondriacal, and those suffering from mental disquietude, the employment of stimulants may be very proper. But though this treatment is sometimes justifiable and advantageous,- it is most unscientilic and dangerous in other cases — particularly in those of general prostration. Here it can only aggravate the mischief ; whereas, had the general health been first improved, the local disorder next relieved, and, subsequently, a stinmlant given, we could understand the formula. Such should be the true method of effecting a cure ; and had these principles of treatment been more generally known, many of the invalids we meei with wotdd have been rescued from much physical and mental suffering. Caiitharides have been employed against im potence. They form the basis of the pastilles d serail, as well as of the numerous pills, pastes, ant opiates which constitute in the East the princip;i commerce of all those who sell drugs. Th Spanish fly enters largely into the diavolini an, other aphrodisiac preparations still too much en: ployed in Italy. Lallemand protests strongly against the use ( this drug. "The effect," he says, " produced b cantharidcs on a healthy man has induced perso:, to believe that they could restore virility lost froi excesses. Thus, charlatans, and even many legii mate practitioners, have at all times prescribe cantharidcs as a traditional resource. For my ov. part, I have seldom met with an impotent perso who has not had cause to regret the use of tli; drug. The greater proportion have not even c> pericnced the momentary benefit which they e: pected ; and in many cases the erectile tissu. have become smaller than in the habitual state . repose. Some few have experienced erectioi