670 SUTURES. ' The dry suture was used in .all wounds of the face, to avoid scars. You will find it thus described by our countryman, Thomas Gale, in his Enchiridion, 1563; and also by A. Pare', who gives a figure ol it in his folio work, 1579." I feel much obliged to my friend Mr. Carwardine for this explanation, without which the expression dry suture is un- doubtedly absurd. As the common way of dress- ing wounds with sticking-plaister will come under consideration in a future part of this work (see WouNns), I shall not here detain the reader upon that topic. Sutures made with a needle and ligature were much more frequently employed by the old sur- geons than by the moderns. The best practitioners fifty years ago never resorted to this method of holding the sides of a wound in contact, except in cases in which there was a real necessity for it, and other modes would not suffice. There were, indeed, certain instances, in which the employment of sutures was forbidden. Of this kind were envenomed wounds, in which accidents the destruction of the poison always formed a prin- cipal indication in the treatment. Wounds, ac- companied with considerable inflammation, were not deemed proper for the use of sutures, as the stitches had a tendency to increase the inflamma- tory symptoms. Also, as contused wounds neces- sarily suppurated, and, consequently, could not be united, sutures were not recommended for them; nor were they judged expedient for wounds at- tended with such a loss of substance as prevented their lips from being placed in contact. Formerly, ■wounds penetrating the chest were not united by sutures; nor were those in which large blood- vessels were injured; at least, until all danger of hfemorrhage was obviated by the vessels being tied. Pibrac's dissertation on the abuse of sutures, in- serted in the third volume of tlie Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery, had considerable effect in rendering the employment of sutures less frequent. This judicious and enlightened practitioner op- posed the method of uniting wounds by means of sutures, which he contended ought never to l^e adopted in practice, except in certain cases, in wh;ch it was absolutely impossible to keep the sides of the wound in contact by means of a suitable posture, and the aid of a methodical bandage. Such circumstances Pibrac represents as exceedingly rare, if ihey ever occur at all. He speaks of sutures as seldom fulfilling the intention of the surgeon, who, in the majority of cases, finds himself necessitated to remove them before they have accomplished the wished- for end. Pibrac believes that sutures are gene- rally more hurtful than conducive to the unicn of wounds; and that when they succeed, they do not effect a cure more speedily than a proper bandage. He cites numerous cases of exten- sive wounds of the abdomen, neck, &c., for the cure of which a bandage proved effectual, and tliis even in many instances in which sutures had pre- viously failed, and cut their way tiirough the flesh. M. Louis, who adopted the opinions of Pibrac, published, in the fourth volume of Mem. de I'Acad. de Chirurgie, a valuable dissertation, in which he endeavours to prove that even the hare-lip can be better united by means of the uniting bandage than with sutures ; a case, however, which every practical surgeon now rightly agrees to consider, for particular reasons elsewlicrc noticed (see Hahe- i,ip), as an example in which a suture is advis- able. So far as I can judge, the fair statement of the matter is, that sutures are by no means requisite for the generality of wounds; but that there are particular cases in which either their greater con- venience, or superior efficacy, still makes thera approved. Since they cannot be practised without additional wounds being made, and pain occa- sioned; and since the threads always act as e.x- traneous bodies in the parts, exciting more or less inflammation, and suppuration round them, there can be no doubt that their employment is invari- ably wrong, whenever the sides of a wound can be maintained in contact by less irritating means, with equal steadiness and security. For what is it which generally counteracts the wishes of the surgeon, and renders his attempts to make the opposite surfaces of wounds grow together, un- availing ? Is not the general cause too high a degree of inflammation, which necessarily ends in suppuration ? Are not sutures likely to augment inflammation, both by the additional wounds of the needles, and the still more pernicious irritation of the threads, which always act as foreign bodies, sometimes producing not merely an increase of in- flammation and suppuration in their track, but frequently ulceration, or sloughing of the parts ; and, in particular constitutions, an extensive ery- sipelatous redness? But even admitting, that, by the general adop- tion of sutures, some wounds would be united, which could not be so were this means abandoned, still it must be allowed, on the other hand, that the cause of other wounds not uniting is entirely ascribable to the irritation occasioned b)^ the su- tures themselves. Hence, if it be only computed, that as many wounds are prevented from uniting by the irritation of sutures, as other wounds which are united by their means, and could be united by no other methods, we must still perceive, that man- kind would be no suflerers, and surgery undergo no deterioration, were sutures rejected from prac- tice. T believe, however, that every man, who has had opportunities of observation, and has made use of them with an unprejudiced mind, will feel persuaded that more wounds are hin- dered from uniting by sutures than such as are healed by them, and coidd not he united hy oilier means. But we are not obliged either to condemn or praise the use of sutures, in every instance, without exception. Men of independent principles will always adopt the line of conduct which truth points out to them as that which is right; nor will they obstinately join Pibrac and Louis, in con- tending that sutures are always improper and dis- advantageous, nor imitate other bigoted persons, who may use sutures in every kind of wound whatever. Perhaps, sutures are still rather too much emploved, and, in all probability, will long be so. It will be difficult entirely to eradicate the prejudices on which their too frequent use is founded, so long as teachers of surgery are seen holding up the practice ibr imitation in every prm- cipal liospital in the kingdom. Such surgeons however, as are ready to imbibe fo'-" ^"J/f ^^. sentiments on the subject, and to ' f,"^ selves for practising this part of surgery u th judg- ment, should by no means "''8''='= '\, ; J I Pibrac and Louis have written on the subject. I know that the latter authors are too sanguine m