VENEREAL DISEASE. riiie to the deposition of a fibro-plastic niiiterial in the vaiious tissues of the body. This product, appears to be identical with that which in the so- called " secondary " stajje is exuded in the bones, in the glands, on the iris, and indeed in the indu- rated chancre itself ; ,but is now liable to be poured out in any structure where areolar tissue exists. There is not an organ of the body, therefore, which is not obnoxious to the influence of syphilitic disease. " By the formation of distinct deposits, or by interstitial exudation, tlie different viscera may be so affected as to involve the life of the individual. The liver is more frequently the seat of the disease, and then affords, by the indelible cicatrices on its surface, an evidence of the nature of the malady from which the person may long have suffered. The brain and its membranes are also liable to be att:icked by constitutiomil sj'pbilis ; giving rise to mania, epilepsy, paralysis, and many other serious and fatal diseases. The lungs too are frequently affected, although the cause is probably much over- looked, as the form of consumption, which is known so often to follow in the train of syphilis, has been regarded merely as tubercular, and a re- sult of the debilitating effects of syphilitic disease. " It is, therefore, highly important to recognise the immediate or direct effects of syphilis in the viscera, as a knowledge of their cause suggests the appropriate treatment. " In addition to these characteristic and peculiar effects of syphilis, there is a tendency in those who have long been its victims to suffer from de- generation of the tissues of the body ; and thus a ver}' frequent cause of the mortality in long- standing syphilis is a universal fatty or lardaceous decay of the organs. '• A few words must be said on hercditari/ syphilis. A large number of cases of abortion and of still-births arise from the children being affected with the syphilitic taint ; and even if the infant be born alive and apparently well, the existence of tlie taint may become mani- fest in a few weeks by the appearance of the characteristic rashes of lichen or roseola, accom- panied by snuffles, ulceration of the mouth, condy- lomata, &c., and souietmies inflammation of the eye. At the end of about a twelvemonth these symptoms may disappear ; it was, until quite recently, supposed that all traces of hereditary syphilis had tnen departed, but this is by no means invariably the case ; the poison may be latent, and again exhibit its virulence during growing youtii. Thus, ciiildren who have been the subjects of hereditary syphilis in infancy may not only exhibit the previous effects of disease, but may suffer from fresh outbreaks, in an active form, such as an acute ulceration of the throat and fresh formed nodes on the bones. The most remarkable affection which may occur at this period appears peculiar to the hereditary form of the disease—a cloudiness of both cornefe, due to an infiltration of lymph, which is technically known as inlerslilM kerulilis. At tlie same time tiiat these recent effects of the poisimous principle are seen, the changes that occur in infancy at once characterise the nature of the disease ; thus, very often the whole body is puny, the foiehead projects, the nose is flattened, the skin around the mouth is often puckered from old ulcerations, and lastly, and most important, a peculiar ciiango takes place in the teeth, the incisors being dwarfed in size, narrowed, rounded and notched. ^'■QiiasliunoflnctilxiHun.—The questions whether there be any fixed and definite period between the exposure to contagion and the appearance of the sore, and if so, whether that period be different in the case of the soft sore and that of the hard, have given rise to much difference of opinion. Upon the whole, the weight of evidence greatly preponderates in favour of the view that there is no definite pSriod of incubation, either for the in- fecting or the non-infecting sore—assuming the term incubation to imply such a uniformity as exists in the period of incubation of other specific diseases, as measles, small-pox, &c. It is, never- theless, a fact, that the soft sore which goes on to suppuration, does make its appearance at an earlier date than the hard sore, which does not suppurate, the average period in the former case being three or four, and in the latter twelve or fourteen days ; but there is a great deviation from this average in individual cases. One witness, for example, spoke of fifty-six days, Q. 194 ; another, of three months, Q. 3304 ; another, of seven weeks, Q. S33&. Some witnesses have recognised no difference as to the period of their appearance after impure eontact, but they are not borne out by general experience. It must not be forgotten, however, that, as a hard sore is charac- terised throughout its stages by the absence of pain or tenderness, it may have been in existence some days without exciting attention, and more especially when occurring in men among the lower class of society, where neither sensibility nor clean- liness abound. It is probable, if the progress of a sore could be watched from its commencement, and the first deviation from health of the surface affected be traced back, all sores would stand in closer proximity to their cause than they appear to do, and the generally adopted period of incubation be somewhat abridged. The statement of a patient with a well-developed hard sore, who dates its existence from a few days only prior to his visit, may reasonably be doubted, on the ground that being a painless disease his attention may not have been drawn to it. The soft sore, on the contrary, is painful, and cannot escape early observation. It is easier to detect a sore than a tubercle, or an excoriated induration. " Period at which the Conslitutio7i is involved.— There is perhaps no question coiniected with the subject of syphilis more practically interesting than that which relates to the period at which the consti- tution becomes involved by the absorption of poison from a specific sore. The evidence obtained from the excision or destruction of a hard sore, even in its (so termed) early stage, is conclusive as to the early absorption of the poison into the circulation. It is in evidence that neither excision of the hard sore, nor its entire destruction by escharotics, can give immunity from constitutional disease. It is the opinion of a particular school, that the subject of a syphilitic sore is incapable of auto-inoculation, in other words, of receiving the poison of his own sore. " Inoculation.—This doctrine, if sound, should strengthen the belief in the fact that the entire system is implicated, and even saturated, with the poison at an early period. But ut what date or period is the constitution so involved r' No positive unsvver can yet be given to this ques-