RECTUM, DI 3EASES OF. 515 toniy. (See Nosoffi: C/dr.) If many piles were not either varices, or cysts in direct communication with the large veins of the rectum, Petit would not have succeeded in taking blood from them by puncture, as he often did, in lieu of the ordinary mode of venesection. {Mai. Cliir. t. ii. p. 134.) The colour of the blood, when voided by puncture, as described by Sir B. Brodie, is a proof of com- mon piles being dilated veins. Sir B. Brodie regarded both external and in- ternal lifemorrhoids as being varicose in their na- ture. Though piles are divided into external and iii/oiia/, the same veins are affected in both cases. " The veins run on the inside of the sphincter muscle; and, where the muscle compresses them, there can be no dilatation of them; but, above and below the muscle, the veins become dilated." {Sir Benjamin Brodie.) [Other authorities, however, have not accepted the theoi-y of the exclusively venous origin of hse- morrhoidal tumors, and among them may be men- tioned Mr. Syme, to whose valuable and practical work on ''Diseases of the Rectum " the reader is re- ferred. In an excellent treatise on these diseases, by Dr. Bushe of New York, will be found an enu- meration of the authorities on the two sides of this disputed question. {Bushe on Dis. of the Rectum, p. 152.) According to the observation of the writer, hse- morrhoidal tumors are essentially vascular in their nature, but they are met with containing every variety of proportion of arterial and venous branches. Some are dark purple in colour, firm in texture, and contain large branches of veins, which are visible through the mucous membrane. Such tumors, when cut into, will exhibit the cut extremities of large venous branches, often, if there has been inflam- mation, filled with coagulated blood. These may reasonably be supposed to be more or less varicose in their nature. Others, on the other hand, are bright red in colour, soft to the feel, showing no appearance of veins of any magnitude either on their surface or when cut into, but appearing to be composed almost entirely of the ramifications of small vessels, and these principally arterial. Be- tween these two extremes every gradation may be observed. Where the veins are much enlarged, there are usually large arterial branches also. All these hasmorrhoidal tumors, however, have a very free arterial supply, derived from a main branch descending into each tumor from above, which may be felt pulsating immediately beneath the mu- cous membrane by the finger introduced into the rectum.] With regard to the cause of h.-cmorrhoids, any thing capable of retarding the return of blood through the inferior mesenteric and hemorrhoidal veins, may occasion the disease. The pressure of the gravid uterus, costiveness, and the retention of hardened faices in the colon and rectum, are very frequeiitcauses: obstinate constipation, indeed, isthe most common of all tlie causes, for " when the colon becomes loaded, and especially the sigmoid flexure, with hardened fa;ces, there is a pressure on the trunk of the inferior mesenteric vein, which inter- rupts, in some degree, the return of blood from its branches." {ISrodie.) I'ersons who lead seden- tary lives are often troubled with the complaint. In reflecting on the various circnmstniices here ad- verted to, it is readily conceivable whj women are more subject to piles than men. The pressure of serous fluid, accumulated in the cavity of the peri- toneum, may occasion piles. Individuals, whose livers are diseased, are often troubled with piles, because certain morbid changes in the liver may prevent the free return of blood from the abdominal viscera through the vena porta;; but, as Sir Ben- jamin Brodie has very truly observed, a great many persons have piles, who have not diseased livers; and it may be added, that many individuals who have diseased livers, have not piles. Another fact, well known to all e,xperienced surgeons, is, that piles are more frequent in the upper classes of societj', than in the lower. " The reason of this diiference is to be found in the different mode of life in the various classes of society. The better classes take but little exercise, and they are more liable to constipated bowels than the lower classes, who take much exercise, and live a great deal in the open air." (Sir B. Brodie, Op. et vol. cit. p. 743.) Some persons suffer from the complaint at pu- berty: but it seldom proves troublesome until the frame is fully developed, and is generally most dis- tressing from the age of twenty to fifty. (Si/me, On Dis. of the Rectum, p. 49.) Gluttony and hard drinking, by bringing on plethora, and deranging the functions of the chylopoietic organs, often seem to act as exciting causes. When piles are produced by the pressure of the. gravid uterus, no cure can be expected till after de- livery, one generally then following spontaneouslj'. Women, however, who have borne many children, are liable to piles ever afterwards; the veins, which have been repeatedly kept in a state of dilatation, not returning afterwards to their proper size; also, when piles are an effect of dropsy, they cannot get well before the pressure of the fluid in the abdo- men has been removed by tapping. Symptoms.—[While internal hEemorrhoids are developiug themselves, there is a sensation of weight and fulness about the rectum, and the pa- tient is conscious of some impediment to the pas- sage outvyards of the fteces ; a greater effort than formerly is required to expel them; bleeding at the time of defsecation, especially if the bowels are costive, frequently occurs.] By degrees they pro- trude through the anus, forming a tumor covered by the mucous membrane. If of considerable size, they always protrude when the patient goes to the water-closet, and afterwards recede again of themselves. If their size be yet more considerable, they descend at other periods, and especially when the patient is walking, so that he caimot well take any exercise. Sometimes, one small internal pile is seen permanently protruded, forming a red vas- cular tumor : this is painful, and keeps up a great .and constant discharge of mucus. Sometimes large internal piles protrude for several days, then gra- dually diminish, and return within the sphincter. Whenever the protrusion happens, there is an abundant secretion of mucus from the rectum. [In the m.-ijority of cases, when the disease is fully established, throe tumors will be met with, one on each side, and one anteriorly towards the perineum; but there are exceptions to this, and as many as five or six are not unfrequently seen. ' When the tumors arc protruded there is at the same time an eversion of the integument sur- rounding the anus, fonning a ring of swollen and apparoitly redundant skin surrounding the hajmoi- rhoids ; this, however, is not necessarily diseased but is the natural evorsion of the adjacent skiu