UPILTM. iJediy a more anodyne and lasting effect than 401 opium. In cases of cerebral irritation, and also of certain pulmonary affections, opium has a less sedative effect than morphine. In chronic bronchitis it will often happen that the former will irritate the stomach and bring on cough; the latter will not, but materially relieve the disease. Except when tiiken hypodermically, the sensations produced b^-morphia are not so agreeable or lu.'curious as by opium. In comparing the effects of morphia with those of opium, when the former is used the bowels are supposed to be less confined, the tongue is made less dry, and the head less prone to suffer. Mor- phia acts less also as a diaphoretic. Since it was pointed out and proved by the writer's experiments in 1858, that hypodermical in- jections acted generally and upon the whole system, both opium and morphine have been largely used by subcutaneous injection for general as well as local affections. Morphine is the most frequently employed. It may be asked has morphine, thus used, any different action from or advantage over opium. My own experience leads me to believe that morphine is infinitely preferable in the ma- jority of cases, in which subcutaneous injection is deemed advisable. For this method is not re- quired in trivial maladies, for such are very amena- ble to stomachic medication; but in a case of urgency, such as of violent pain, of wild deli- rium, of severe spasm, morphia is more effectual and more permanent in the good it effects than opium, though likewise subcutaneously injected. If temporary ease, comfort, or gentle excitement are wished for, opium will produce those effects better than morphine. But on the otlier hand, the effects of opium—more exhilarating for the time—sooner pass off. I speak from observation of the effects of both, wAe?i injected into the cellular tissue, upon the same patients, one of whom, an intelligent lady, said she found the influence of f of a grain of morphine usually lasts twice as long as those from thirty minims of tincture of opium (evaporated to a less bulk). The throat is less dry from morphine, the boivels less, if at all, confined from it, and this is a great advant ige, as morphine may be daily injected into patients necessarily recumbent, v/ithout inducing constipation. And here I may mention, that morphine has frequently, for the time its effects last, destroyed the appetite, when taken by the 71101M; but in the same patients it often acts as an inct-ntive to eat, given hypodermically. The disadvantages of the subcuUineous injection of morphia are chiefly l/ie sichiess, which is to be avoided by not injecting (as so many do) too large a dose; and local irritations, which are to be avoided by using solutions of the alkaloids instead of tinctures, &c. (See Subcu- taneous Injection.) Codeia, or Codeine, Symbol Cd., consists, ac- cording to Pereira, of C3*' H«o NQs. It occurs as a hard white crystalline substance, very difficult to dissolve at ordinary temperatures; soluble in alcohol and ether. It has scarcely been used in medicine, except during the last few years. Those who first investigated it differed greatly as to its action. Kurkel said it caused convulsions; (iregory, great excitement of the circulation, vo- miting, and depression; Barbier and Majendie '*ieep in small doses, stupor in large. I bdieve' vol., Ji. U 13 now more purely obtained, the effects being, accordmg to my observations, prettv uniform Codeia is a less powerful, although a purer cerebral narcotic than morphine, and for stomachic administration Majendie was, I think, correct in stating one grain of codeia to be equal to half a grain of morphia. The dose would therefore be from 1 to 3 grains. Codeia has been for some years used for spasmodic cough and other chest affections, in the form chiefly of syrup of codeia, by Drs. Walsh, Williams, Cotton, and others; and in cases of insanity and insomnia, by Dr. Tuke and others, in doses of from ^ of a grain to 1 or 2 grs. The sleep produced by it is lighter and more refreshing, and unaccompanied by the heaviness produced by morphia. We learn from the experi- ments of Claude Bernard upon animals, that codeia benumbs the nerves of sensibility to a much less extent than morphine does; that they wake almost instantly to their natural state without effort; and that its effects, slighter in degree, are mainly apparent upon the cerebral functions. Given by the mouth to the human being, the sleep produced by it is lighter and more refreshing than that from morphia; and although sufficiently profound, the waking from it to the thoroughly normal state is far more rapid than from morpliia; neither is it accompanied by the stupor, the giddi- ness, the sickness, and the headache, which often attend the use of the latter drug. The ex- periments of Claude Bernard upon animals show that codeia, hypodermically injected, benumbs the nerves of sensibility much less than morphia does. Dogs wake up instantly without any efarement ■ whilst from morphine they awake dull and heavy' with a wild eye, senses confused, tail down, &c. ' The most recent French writers upon the hV- podermic method, Jousset, Bouchardat, &c., say codeine has not been employed subcutaneously on the human subject. The following are my results ot its use on six or seven patients: That a full codeine injection acts somewhat like a mild morphine injection. Its first effects are upon the circulation, which it gently excites but the effect is more transient than that of mor- phine. The brain is then tranquillised, and sleep may follow, but not always. Pain is less influenced than IS cerebral irritation. Sickness I have not yet seen froju the codeine injection, nor is the dull heavy sense of constriction of the head a sequence as It may be of morphine. I have known it cause headache in one case, to be quite inert in two or three cases, and in one patient it simply increased the circulation, but had no effect on tliP brain. In doses such as I have used for injection viz from one-fourth to three-fourths of a grain I con' sider codeine a less reliable anodyne and a less powerful narcotic than morphine, and altogether a milder preparation. Still cases may occur in which It would be very useful, whilst opium or morphine are inadmissible. Codeine, on account of its difli cult solubility, has to be injected slightly warm Narceine. Narceine, from vipiai, stupor, was first obtained by Pelletier in 1832. It has a for inula of C=8 Iiao nO'^ and occurs in fine white silky needles, radiating in tufts from a centre It dissolves in 230 parts of boiling water or 375 uarts of water at C0°. In the latest edition of Pereira narceine is presumed to be inert, as two eraiiis tlirown into the jugular vein of a dog produced no