the disease; but he condemns plnsters of gum ammoniac, embrocations, liniments, and frictions, as either useless or hurtful. (See Med. CMr. Trans, vol. vi. p. 332—334.) [Mr. Ei ichsen asserts that rest is best secured by the application of leather or gutta percha splints in the earlier stages; and at a later period by the starched bandage to the limbs. This kind of appliance, he says, will be found to give the most efficient support, and will keep the whole of the limb perfectly motionless, so that the patient can take open-air exercise, and walk with the aid of crutches, without the risk of injuring the diseased joint. In this respect the starched bandage pre- sents great advantages over the short leather splints generally used. It may readily be cut open opposite the diseased joint, so as to admit of the application of proper dressings to it. (See Endisen, Science and Arl of Siirgerj/,^. 693, ed. '2.) Mr. Pirrie prefers splints of gutta percha to those of leather, to obtain perfect immunity of the joint from motion. In the event of local applica- tions not being necessary, he considers the starch bandage, applied so as not to cause any undue pressure, as exceedingly convenient; and even where issues are necessary, it will often be found the best means of keeping the joint at rest; and openings, or, as they have been called, traps, may be cut out to allow of the application of issues or other means of counter-irritation. If splints or the starch bandage be nicely applied, the patient may be drawn out into the open air, which is so important in this disease. (See Firrie, Prin. and Prac. of Surgery, ed. 2, p. 436.)] Mr. John Hunter had confidence in cicuta and sea-bathing, as possessing power over many scrofu- lous diseases; and that such diseases of the joints are often materially benefited by the patient's going to the sea-side and bathing is a fact which cannot 1 be doubted, whatever may be the mode of ex- plaining the benefit thus obtained. I fully believe that sea-air and sea-bathing have a beneficial in- fluence over scrofulous diseases of the joints; but probably their effects are produced on the part through the medium of the constitution, and they should only be recommended as an auxiliary plan, to be adopted in conjunction with other still more efficacious measures. One method of treatment which my own per- sonal experience enables me to recommend for scrofulous white swellings in a chronic state, con- sists in keeping the joint motionless by means of a splint, and maintaining a discharge from the skin covering it. The opportunities which I have had of observing the effects of blisters and caustic issues, rather incline me to prefer the former to the latter. In particular individuals, however, blisters create so much irritation, heat, fever, and suffering, that a perseverance in them would be rashness. _ The blister should be large. Many surgeons, ■instead of following Crowther's plan, prefer blister- ing first one side of the joint, and then the other, alternately, for a considerable length of time [The actual cautery is extremely beneficial in these cases, applied as directed in the treatment of the chronic arid subacute forms of arthritis to which we would refer the reader; or caustic issues may be put in at a little distance from the articu- lation, so that there may be no risk of the inflam- matory action penetrating to it.] In the beginning caustic issues are even more JOINTS, DISEASES OF. jgy painful than blisters; but they afterwards become more like indolent sores, and are more easily kept open for a length of time than blisters. Such issues are commonly made on each side of the diseased joint, and of about the size of half a crown. The manner of making the eschars and keeping issues open is elsewhere explained. (See Seton and Issue.) ^ The question has been contested among sur- gical writers and practitioners, whether blisters and issues produce benefit upon the principle of counter-irritation, or in consequence of the dis- charge which they occasion. They probably operate efficaciously in both ways; for there is no doubt that simple rubefacients possess the power of promoting absorption, and they may also modify the vascular action in diseased parts. Yet it is obvious that they can only act upon the prin- ciple of counter-irritation, and they have not been here recommended, particularly for white swellings; because it seems to nie that whenever some good might be derived from their employ- ment, much more benefit might always be obtained from blisters and issues. This sentiment is con- firmed by experience, and we must, therefore, impute a great degree of efficacy to the main- tenance of a purulent discharge from the vicinity of the diseased part. Though ray own observations have led me to think quietude of the joint, with issues and blisters, as efficient as any means hitherto devised for stopping the progress of scrofulous disease of the heads of bones, I am far from meaning to say that such disease can generally be stopped by these or any other remedies, local or general. Sir B. Brodie has seldom known any benefit derived from blisters or stimulating liniments; nor has he seen the same degree of good produced by issues in scrofulous cases, as in examples of primary ulcera- tion of the cartilages. Cold evaporating lotions in the early stage of the complaint, perfect quietude of the joint, attention to the patient's health, and riding in a carriage in the fresh air, are the means ' which this gentleman particularly recommends in scrofulous diseases of the joints. Dui-ing the formation of abscesses, he approves of fomentations and poultices. {Patliol. Obs. p. 242.) In a sub- sequent edition Sir Benjamin observes,—" I much doubt \yhether setons and issues are ever useful, except in some cases in which the disease has its' seal in the hip-joint, and in which the patient suffers, in an unusual degree, from pain and muscular spasms in the limb, apparently in consequence of the irritation communicated to the trunk of the anterior crural nerve." (Ed. 3, p. 205.) [After all inflammation has been removed, and nothing but thickening and stiffness of the joint are left, measures must be adopted for removing these conditions, and restoring the flexibility of the articulation by frictions, with somewhat stimulating and counter-irritant embrocations, and eventually its strength by douches of sea-water. The effect of friction is to excite the action of the absorbents, which considerably lessen the thick- ened state of the pnits around the affected joint- and it was on this principle that the old practice of dry rubbing was found so eflicacious. The swelling and puttiuess that are left, together with the debility dependent on relaxation of the ligaments are perhaps best remedied by the use of Mr. Scott's strapping.] According to this gentleman, issues,