462 POLYPUS. These circumstances are very discouraging to the performance of any operation for the discharge of the air. Cases will occur, where venesection, leeches, anodynes, &c. will fail to prevent the dyspnoea from increasing to such a pitch as to threaten the patient with suffocation. Then the only means of enabling the patient to live longer, is making a small puncture in the chest. This is mostly followed by great relief ; which, however, is only temporary. The failure of the operation is ascribed by Dr. Houghton to the readiness with which, in such cases, the false membrane and pleura inflame and become gangrenous. Pneumothorax, from the, hursiing of an abscess of the lung, is rare ; and when it happens, the em- pyema is generally circumscribed. Dr. Houghton suspects, that this must have been the case in the examples of recovery recorded by Dr. Archer (Trans, of Khig's and Queen's College) ; and Dr. Hawthorne {Edinh. Med. Journ. No. 61). For additional information, see Emphysema, Empyema, and Paracentesis. POLYPUS (from -ttoKIs, many, and woOj, a foot). A tumor, generally of a pyriform shape, most commonly met with in the nose, but some- times in the uterus, vagina, antrum, rectum, larynx, and meatus auditorius, and named from an er- roneous idea that it has several roots, or feet, like polypi. Polypi more frequently grow in the cavity of the nose than in any other situation, and are visibly of different kinds. One polypus is of a pale red colour and soft consistence, and free from pain ; this is the feshy polypus. When this kind of polypus is of yet softer consistence, semitrans- parent, and of a pale yellowish or grey colour, in consequence of being less vascular, it is called the gelati9iozis polypus, and usually arises from the mucous membrane of the side of the antrum, or the middle of the cavity of the nostril, between the upper and lower turbinated bones. Sir Astley Cooper has never seen a polypus growing from the mucous membrane of the septum narium. {Lectures, ^c, vol, ii. p. 348.) Other polypi are called malignant, being hard, scirrhous, and painful: carcinomatous polypi are regarded by Sir Astley Cooper as a disease of old age. Another malignant polypus, which he calls fungoid, and is in fact the medullary cancer, may occur at any period of life. It is more frequent than a true scirrlious tumor within the nose ; and, though like the latter in bleeding copiously, it is less painful. (Lectures, ^c. vol. ii. p. 354.) [Fibroid polypi, though not noticed here by Mr. Cooper, occur in the nostrils more frequently than either the scirr- hous or fungoid—they grow to a very considerable size, destroying the bones and extending into the orbits, lachrymal passages, and frontal sinuses. Unlike the malignant kind, however, they do not return when completely removed. The editor has met with several instances, one of which will be related in this article. See also Nose.] Sir Astley Cooper likewise describes hydatid polypi, which generally occur in young people, and the cysts of which may be burst by pressure, and the fluid in them discharged. Richter mentions another kind of nasal polypus, which is pale, very tough, and secretes a viscid discharge ; which undergoes ,an alteration of its size with every change of the weather ; and which is rather a relaxation, or elongation of a part of the Schnei- derian membrane, than a polypus excrescence. The whole membranous lining of the nostrils ig sometimes thus relaxed and thickened. {An- fungsgr, der Wtmdarzn. b. 1. kap. 21.) Besides the preceding varieties of polypi, children are subject to red projections within the nose, which are liable to be mistaken for polypi, but are of a different nature, and may be cured by touching them with the end of a bougie, armed with the argentum nitratum. Astley Cooper.) Mr. Pott has taken great pains to explain, that there is one kind of polypus originally benign; another originally malignant. He states, that those which begin with, or are" preceded by, con- siderable or frequent pain in the forehead and upper part of the nose, and which, as soon as they can be seen, are either highly red, or of a dark purple colour ; those which, from the time of their being first noticed, have never been observed to be sometimes bigger, sometimes less, but have constantly rather increased; those, in which coughing, sneezing, or blowing the nose, gives pain, or produces a very disagreeable sensation in the nostril, or forehead ; those which, when within reach, are painful to the touch, or which, upon being slightly touched, are apt to bleed ; those which seem to be fixed, and not moveable by the action of blowing the nose, or of driving the air through the affected nostril only (when the polypus is only on one side) ; those which are incompres- sibly hard, and which, when pressed, occasion pain in the corner of the eye and forehead, and which, if they shed anything, shed blood ; those which by adhesion occupy a very considerable space, and seem to consist of a thickening, or of an enlarge- ment of all the membrane covering the septum narium ; those which sometimes shed an ichorous, offensive, discoloured discharge ; and those, round whose lower part, within the nose, a probe can- not easily and freely be passed, and that to some height, ought not to be operated on, at least by the forceps, nor indeed by any other means ; and this for reasons obviously deducible from the nature and circumstances of the polypus. On the one hand, the very large extent and quantity of ad- hesion will render extirpation impracticable, even if the disease could be comprehended within the forceps, which it very frequently cannot ; and on the other, the malignant nature of the distemper maj' render all partial removal, all unsuccessful attacks on it, and indeed any degree of irrita- tion, productive of the most disagreeable conse- quences. But, the polypi, which are of a palish or grey- ish light brown colour, or look like a membrane just going to be sloughy ; which are seldom or never painful, nor become so upon being pressed; which have appeared to be at one time larger, at another less, as the air has happened to be moist or dry ; which ascend and descend freely by the action of respiration through the nose ; which the patient can make to descend by stopping the nostril which is free, or even most free, and then driving the air through that which contains the polypus ; which when pressed give no pain, casily yield to such pressure, become flat thereby, and discharge a clear fluid ; and round whose lower and visible part a probe can easily, and that to some height; be passed, are tit for extrnc ion ; the polypus, in these circumstances, frequently coming away entire ; or, if it does not, yet it is removable