from the one observed in Myopia, oy the absence of choroidal atrophy near if, and especially by its appearing to project into the vitreous chamber. 2. A defective blood-supply to the retina and optic disc, giving rise to some anaemia of the former. The high degrees of amblyopia occa- sionally met with in hypermetropia are accom- panied by great hypersemia in some, by antemia of the optic disc in other cases. 3. An oval shape of the optic disc (the long axis of the oval standing vertically). 4. The abnormal shape of the eyeball. The tunics within the sclerotic participate in the alteration of curvature of the sclerotic. The retina, and especially its centre (yellow spot), instead of being placed as in health at the principal focal distance of the dioptric system (cornea and lens), lies too near this system. This statement is borne out by dissections, and by measurements on tlie living eye. It might be supposed, though the shape be abnormal, that this is compensated by increased curvature of the cornea or of tlie lens, or of both, or that the retina occupies the normal posi- tion, but that the cornea and lens, or both, are too flat, and thus prevent the formation of defined images in the retina. Measurements of the cornea and lens of hypermetropia eyes have, however, shown that their curvature and position is ncrnial, or, if deranged, that it rather tends to remedy the faulty position of the retina. Vision of Hi/permetrnpics.-—Most of the dis- turbances of vision of hypermetropics must be sought in the too short distance of the retina from the cornea and lens. The emmetrop (the person with normal eyes) sees distant objects without making use of his power of accommodation (the retina being placed at the principal focal distance of the cornea and lens). The hypei-metrop cannot do the same. He is obliged even when looking at distant objects (from which proceed parallel, or but slightly diverging rays) to use adjusting power, i.e. to cause the ciliary muscle to contract. The hypermetropic eye consumes muscular power when the emmetropic eye uses none. The nearer to the eyes an object is held, the more do the rays diverge which come from the object, and the more adjusting pov/er is the normal eye obliged to use to bring these rays to a focus. Now, the hypermetrop, to be able to see distinctly a distant object, is already using adjusting power as shown above, while the emmetrop is not yet compelled to do so. The hypermetrop, when looking at near objects, does therefore not start with the same quantity of adjusting power, but having already made use of some has not sufficient when much is required; as e.g. for prolonged reading. The disproportion between the shape of the hypermetropic eyeball, and the power of accom- modation necessary to render acute vision possible, have led to the distinction of different kinds and degrees of hy permetriipia. Kinds nf Ihipermctrojiia :— 1. If the hliape of tlie eye is but slightly altered (slight hypermetropia), and the power of accom- niodiition normal, no complaints arise so long as that power suffices for easy distinct vision. The hypermetropia is stated to be altogether latent (—III). Some hypermetropia always renuiins latent as long as any power of accommodation is left. If the accommodation is paralysed (through DN. 1007 atropia), or only slight, as in advanced age, all, or most of the hypermetropia becomes manifest. 2. If complaints arise as regards vision, they are, as a rule, a symptom that some of the hyper- metropia becomes manifest (= lira). General illness, or local causes, which tend to weaken the ciliary muscle, may cause the hypermetropia rapidlj' to become manifest. 3. Absolute hypermetropia exists if, with the greatest effort of accommodation, parallel rays or the images of distant objects cannot be brought to a focus in the retina. The term relative manifest hypermetropia signi- nifies that the relation is disturbed between the point towards which the hj-permetropic eyes con- verge and the point from whence the rays come, e.g. if, when reading, the book is held at 16 inches from the eyes, then do the rays which coine fruni the letters diverge from a point l(i inches distant, while the eyes may converge towards a point situated only at 12 inches from the eyes. In this case the conveigince is too great. With greater convergence more power of accommodation can be exerted and improvement of vision is obtiiined. This explains the occurrence of this form of mani- fest hypermetropia. Deyree :—• The degree of hypermetropia necessarily varies with the distance of the retina from the cornea and lens (from the dioptric system), and may be expressed by the refracting power of that convex lens which, held close in front of the cornea of the hypermetropic eye, refracts rays coming from very distant objects (termed parallel rays) sufficiently to cause them after entering the eye, i.e. after re- fraction by the dioptric system at rest (the accom- modation being paralysed by atropia) to come to a focus in the retina. To determine the degree of the hypermetropia ne must first paralyse the accommodation by atropia, and then find the strongest convex lens which, held close in front of the cornea, brings rays from very distant objects to a focus in the retina. Suppose the hypermetropic eya (its accom- modation being paralysed by atropia) to look at a distant object, say at letters of No. 40 placed at •,0 ftet, or at letters of No. 20 placed at 20 feet. We find that to spell those letters, a convex lens of 20 inches focal distance is required, and that this cannot be done with any stronger convex lens. We therefore state the degree of hypermetropia as = ij\j. If the eye requires a convex lens of 10 inclies focal distance the hypermetropia is = Jjy, &c. The highest degree of hypermetropia on record is one of-1 (requiring a concave lens of \ } inch focal di^tance to bring parallel rays to a focus in the retina). The degree of the nuinifest hypermetropia, i.e. the degree of the hypermetropia vvliich shows itself when the accommodation is not paralysed, is abo ascertained with concave lenses; e.g. if we find that Jy is the strongest convex lens with which letters of No. 20 can be recognised at 20 feet, we state the manifest iiypcrmetropia to be r'- (llm=riV)- lf'> "f'^'i" paralysing the accommo" dalion by atropia, we find to be the slrongcst convex lens with which letters of No. 20 can be recognised at 20 feet, we state the absolute hyper- metropia to be -rV (U =Vij)- In this case one