28 INFLAMMATION, in the body for days, or even weeks ; and another which, " though it does not coagulate, contains a material capable of organisation into cells ;" as the fluid of herpes or eczema. Blood is never effused except from rupture of vessels. But the exudations are occasionally stained by imbibition of the dissolved colouring matter of the blood. These " blood-stained effu- sions are among the evil signs of the products of inflammation during typhus, and other low eruptive fevers, in syphilis, and scurvy." {Paget, ut infra.) Lvmph, also, varies greatly in its properties. There are, according to Mr. Paget, two chief forms of lymph, which he denominates the fibrinojts and corpuscular. " To the fibrinous variety belong, as typical examples, all the instances in which in- flammatory lymph, effused as a liquid, coagulates into the solid form." " In the corpuscular varietj-, no coagulation of lymph, in the ordinary sense of the word, takes place ; but corpuscles form, and float free in the liquid part. But, in a large number of examples of inflammatory lymph, the fibrine and the corpuscles occur together, mixed in various proportions, the one or the other preponde- rating." Now, according to Mr. Paget, the nature of the effusion, whether fibrinous or corpuscular, determines its destiny : the fibrinous having a ten- dencv to become developed into tissue—the cor- puscidar, to degenerate into pus. " In other words, the preponderance of fibrine in the lymph is generally characteristic of the adhesive inflamma- tion ; the preponderance of corpuscles, or their sole existence, is an essential feature of the suppu- rative inflammation. And the conditions which determine the production of one or the other variety of lymph seem to be three :—1st. The state of the blood ; the power of which is evident, in that the same material may be exuded in many inflamed parts in the same person ; in that this material may exhibit peculiar characters correspondent with those of the blood itself ; and in that, in different persons, an inflammation excited in the same tissue, and by the same stimulus, will produce different forms "of lymph, corresponding with differences in the blood. 2nd. The seat of the inflammation, and the tissue or organ affected, of which the in- fluence is shown by cases in which, with the same condition of blood, different exudations are pro- duced in different parts or organs. 3rd. The se- verity, and acute or chronic character, of the inflam- matory process, according to which the product deviates, more or less, from the character of the natural secretion or blastematous effusion of the inflamed part." An increased secretion of mucus has not been so "■enerally recognised as an inflammatory exudation. Mr. Paget indeed says, "I am disposed to think that we should not draw a strong contrast between the inflammatory products of mucous membranes and those of serous membranes, and other parts, except in relation to the material with which, in the several cases, the inflammatory lymph is mixed." But Virchow distinctly points out the intimate relation between the secretion of mucus and that of lymph. After referring to the fact that mucous membranes donotgenerallyfurnish fibrinous exudation, he says, " In the whole series of the so-called gastric in- flammations we find, especially at the commence ment of the process, scarcely anything more than an abundant secretion of mucus. If, therefore, we still call these catarrhal inflammations inflam- mation, we must admit that there may exist a mucous as well as a fibrinous exudation in inflam- mation, and that the inflammations with a raucous exudation form a special category, appertaining to certain organs." And in the inflammation of certain mucous membranes he traces the passage, as it were, of one secretion to another, fibrinous inflammations arising, "as in aggravation, out of mucous ones." In ordinary croup, for example, the secretion is at first only mucous or muco-puru- lent. " Not until after a certain lapse of time does the fibrinous exudation appear, and then it does so in such a manner that we can trace the transitions in the same false membrane, and see that a certain portion is manifestly mucus, another manifestly fibrine, whilst in a third part it can no longer be affirmed with certainty whether the one or the other is present. Here, therefore, hoik suhsfanccs appear as suhstitules for one another.'''' (Virchow, Cellular PaLliology, 1860, p. 390-1.) The relation of mucus to inflammatory exudation will be still further illustrated presently. It appears, then, that the inflammatory effusions ordinarily recognised are two: serum and fibrine —but to these must be added, under certain cir- cumstances, mucus. Mucus is both an exudation and an overgrowth ; and when we speak of mucus, which is commonly understood to be the product of a moist epithetical membrane, we must not forget dry products of the skin ; the abundant scales of cuticle which fall from the leper as " white as snow," and which, in an aggregated form, consti- tute the corns which arise from irritated skin. Exudations cannot remain dormant. They rapidly undergo changes, either in the way of develop- ment or degeneration. The development of lymph into tissue can only take place under certain favourable conditions. And the existence of these conditions implies (says Mr. Paget) " a cessation of the inflammatory pro- cess. So long as inflammation lasts, no high development of the exudation already formed wilt take place : rather fresh exudation will be con- tinually formed, hindering the due process of de- velopment. The history of the subsequent develop- ment, and of the tissues that maybe produced, be- longs rather to the subiect of Repair. Suffice it here to sav, that the direction of the development is de- termined by two circumstances:— 1st. The natural tendency of the lymph to formfibro-cellular tissue; and, 2nd. Its tendency to assume, more or less, the characters of the tissue from which it exuded, or in place of which it is formed. (See Art. Repair.) . . . ,, . „ Microscopically, the characteristic of all inflam- matory effusions must be said to be, that they con- tain, in greater or less abundance, "cells," wnich, in the earlier periods of their existence, show signs of rapid and monstrous growth ; b^t afterwards, being incapable of development, become abortive, and pass through various stages and forms of de- generation. The degeneration of effusions are, according to Mr. Paget, four—viz., withering, fatty, calcareous, and pigmental degenerations. But of these the most certain and constant is the fatty degeneration. The fatty degeneration of fibrine is seen espe- cially in the coagula found in the lower forms of inflammation, in which the fibrine is found to be turbid, and dotted with numerous minute shining granules, whict are drops of oil. Such fibrine, or