296 MOLLITIES OSSIUM instance of sypliilitic pompholyx, a somewhat ana- logous conipnund, procured bj- dissolving one-eightli of a grain of corrosive suliliniate in a solution of three grains of iodide of potassium, taken thrice a day, has proved most beneficial. An ointment composed of ten grains of red iodide of mercury, to an ounce of lard, has been found of advantage in bronchocele. The mercurial pill {vilula liydmrgyri) is an eligible preparation for internal administration. It consists of mercury in a state of minute division, blended with some saccharine substance or confec- tion, wliich preserves it from oxidation. From three to - five grains is the usual dose, repeated twice or thrice in the da}'. When it purges, opium will generalh' prevent this effect, or, according to Mr. B. Pliillips, a minute quantity of rhubarb. The common mode of exhibition, in the instance of syphilis, is to give five grains of mercurial pill at night, combined with a quarter of a grain of opium, and five grains in the morning without opium ; or three grains of the pill may be given thrice daily, conjoined with one-third of a grain of opium and half a grain of ipecacuan, until the patient is fully under the mer- curial influence. In protracted cases of con- stitutional syphilis. Dr. Graves has seen a perfect cure follow the exhibition of one grain of blue pill daily for about three months. {Clinical Lec- tures, p. 545.) The red oxide of mercury is seldom or ever prescribed to be taken internally. The average dose is stated to be one grain, and this is gene- rally exhibited with opium in order to prevent griping and purging. It is occasionally used for furai^-ation in venereal diseases of the throat and nostrils. For the purpose of fumigating sores, either the grey oxide, the bisulphuret, or mercury with chalk, may be used. Ulcers and excrescences about the pudendum and anus in women are bent'fited in this way; and, in these cases, the fumes are most conveniently applied by placing a red-hot heater at the bottom of a night-stool pan, and after sprink- ling on it a few grains of red sulphuret of mer- cury, placing the patient on the stool. On other occasions, a small apparatus, sold at the shops, is used, which enables the surgeon to direct the fumes through a funnel against the ulcer in any situation.] MEROCELE KTiKri, a tumour.) IIeknia.) MEZi^REON Alexander lire. (from |U€pos, the thigh, and A femoral or crural hernia. (See was recommended by Dr. A. Russell for a particular class of venereal symp- toms, in the following terms: "The disease, for which I principally recommend the decoction of the mezereon root as a cure, U the venereal node that proceeds from a tiiii kening of the membrane of the bones. In a thickening of the periosteum, from other causes, I have seen very good cftects from it ; and it is frequently of service in the re- moval of those nocturnal pains with which vene- real patients are afllicted; though, in this last case, excepting with regard to the pain that is occa- ti.ined by the nude, I own I have not found its effects so certain as I at first thought I had reason to believe. I do nut find it of service in the cure of any other svuiptom of the venereal disease." { AIcM. Ois.and liiq. vol. iii. pp. 19-1, 19.5.) Mr, Pearson, however, asserts unequivocally, that mezereon has not the power of curing the venereal disease in any one stage, or under any one form; and if the decoction should ever reduce the vene- real node, yet there will be a necessity for taking mercury in as large quaniitj', and for as long a time, as if no mezereon had been exhibited. Cullen found this medicine of use in some cutaneous affections; but excepting an instance or two of lepra, Mr. Pearson very seldom found it possessed of medicinal virtue, either in syphilis, or the se- quelae of that disease, scrofula or cutaneous affec- tions. (Pearson on Lues Venerea, pp. 55—59.) As the possibiliti/ of curing most forms of the venereal disease, not only without mercury but without any internal medicines whatever, is now well established, it is difficult to know what degree of importance to attach to observations, declaring certain articles of the materia medica efficient or inefficient in the cure of that disease; because if it admit of a spontaneous cure, but will not get well when mezereon, or any other particular medi- cine, is exhibited, we are necessarily obliged to sunpose that such medicine is worse than useless. MOLLITIES OSSIUM. {Osteo-malacia. Ma- lacosleon.) A morbid softness of the bones, which become preternaturally flexible, in consequence either of the inordinate absorption of the phosphate of lime, from which their natural solidity is derived, or else of this matter not being duly secreted into their texture. The bones affected become specifi- cally lighter. {Saillant, Hist, de la Soc. Royale de Med. t.viii.) Dr.Bowstock made some experiments, with the view of ascertaining the proportion of earthy matter in bones affected with mollities: he examined a dorsal vertebra of a woman, whose bones were found soft and flexible after her de- cease. In one part of the diseased bone, he found, that the quantity of earthy matter only amounted to one-tifth of its weight, and in another only to one-eighth, while the proportion in healthy bones amounted to more than one-half of their wholo weight. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. and Wil- son on the Bones and Joiiiis, p. 253.) [A portion of femur from another case which he examined yielded only eleven parts of earthy salts in one hundred {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xx. Stutile;/ on Diseases of Bones, p. 237). And even a smaller prop(irtion than this has been found {Path. Soc. Trans, vol.xiii. p. 211).] In rickets, the bones yield and become distorted only by slow degrees, and retain their natural inflexibility; but, in the present disease, they may be at once bent in any direction, and fre- quently admit of being readily divided with a knife. Preternatural brittleness and flexiblencss of the bones appear to iNIr. Mayo, as they did to Dover, to be the results of different degrees of the same cause. " One degree of atrophy produces brittleness; a greater degree fiexibleness, with greater brittleness. The disease, in which these features are shown in the highest aggravation is one which attacks adults, but is of very rare occur- rence. It is named mollities ossimn." (See 0((<- tiucsof lJumau Paikolowj.^. 19.) [This opinion is shared by most English authors, who con- sider that the fragility, met with in some cases of this disease, is the conin.encenient of the degenera- tive change in the bone,and is due to the absorption of its cancellous texture; but in the more advanced stage, when the compact tissue is also involved and imiform softening of the whole thickness of