ol (ibrous aspect, traverse ii more homogeneous NEUROMA. ing the systfem should be stopped, if possible, Neuralgia is itself an exhausting disease, as indi- cated by the general aspect of the patient, the loss of sleep so often entailed, the severity and frequency of the attacks, &c. Such patients should, as a rule, live well ; their meals should not be at long intervals—a small quantity of good nourishing food, repeated at short and regular in tervals, being best. Eggs, bacon, meat, with wine, beer, or alcohol in some other form, help much to prevent the susceptibility to neuralgia, by keeping up strength and nerve-force. Outdoor ' exercise should daily be taken, rather than pro- longed application to indoor occupation and amusements. Exceeding two hours at the piano always brought on neuralgia in one patient. In neuralgia due to rheumatic or gouty diathesis, the nature and amount of the stimulus allowed must be modified. In other cases, a glass of stout at bedtime will often carry a patient through the night free from paroxysms. Purgation should be of a mild nature, if required at all. Such is the general outline of treatment, combined with the measures above indicated, for arresting the parox5'sm, for cases in which no cause of the neuralgia actually removeable can be discovered.] Charles Hunter. FottiergilVs Paper in vol. v. of the Medical Obs and Inq. Dr. Haighton's Obs. in the Med. Records and Researches. Darwin's Zoonomia. Abei-nethy's Surg, \\orks, vol. ii. p. 203, &c. Delpech, Vi(:c\s des Maladies Chir. t. iii. p. 206, &c. Dr. S. Fother- gill's Systematic Account of Tic Douloureux, 1804 Goorf'i Study of Medicine, vol. i. Med. Chir. Trans vol. vv. p. 48 ; vol. vii. p. 573, &c. Kirby's Cases! 8vo. Lond. 1819. B. Hutchison, Cases of Tic Doulou- reux, 8vo. 1820. Also 2d edit. 1822. Richmond, in Lond. Med. Pliys. Journ. Sept. 1821: acase in favour of subcarbonate of iron. Waclell, in Edinb. Med. Journ. No. 32: case to the same purport. Lizars, in same work, No. 69. Carter's Case in Med. Repo- sitory, No. 89. L. D. Yeate's Review of a severe Case of NeuralRia, &c. 1822. Dr. Stetvart Crawford, in Med. and Thys. Journ. Feb. 1823. A. T. Thomson, in the same No.; and additional cases by various other practitioners in the Nos. for April, June, and Sept. 1823. A. Wilson, in Ed. Med. Journ. No. 75- a case cured by purgatives, followed by bark, after the subcarbonate of iron and liq. arsenicalis had failed. H. Jeffries, Neuralgia of the Median Nerve, after a burn on the Thumb, cured by subcarbonate of iron. See Med. and Phys. Journ. May 1823. T. Taylor, in Edin. Med. Journ. No. 76: carbonate of soda, hemlock, and the prussicacid, prescribed with success. John EUiotson, in Cyclop, of Pract. Medi- cine, art. Neuralgia. S. Cusack, in Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. v. p. 220. -Sir Benjamin Brodie, On Local Nervous Affections, 8vo. Lond. 1837. Andr^de Versailles, Les Maladies, de I'Uretre, &c., yi51. Louis, te la Gaz. Salutaire, 1766. Valleix, Traits des Neuralgies, 1841, Paris. Theo. Thompson, art. Neuralgia, Library of Med. vol. ii. Parsons, On Neuralgia, Amer. Journ. of Med. Science, 1854, Gay, Lancet, 1846. Dr. Castle, of New York, Lancet, 1846. iliint, On the Treatment of Tic Douloureux, 1854. Copland, Dictionary of Medicine, vol. ii. 1858. Becquerel, On Neuralgia treated by powerful currents of Electricity; Bullet, d' I'Acad. Imp. de M^d. 1860. Allhaus, Dr., On Cases treated by Faradisation,1861. and On Neuralgia, treated by Electricity,1858. Alex Wood, New .Method of Treating Neuralgia by the Direct Application of Opiates to the Painful Parts Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. 1855. Brit. Med. Journ 1858. Dr. Downing On the Nature and Treatment of Neuralgia, London, 1851 (Churchill). Dr. O'Connor On the Valerianate of Ammonia in Neuralgia, vol' XXXV. iJa«Am«7V Abs. of Med. Science. Bouchut' Med. Circular, 1863, Neuralgia Treated by Counter- irritation. Charles Hunter, On Narcotic Injection in Neuralgia, Med. Times and Gaz. 1858. Series of faperson the Hypodermic Treatment, Med. Times and Gaz. 1859. Lancet, 1863. On the Speedy Relief of Pain, Sec, by the flyporlermic Metho.l, 1865 8sr (Churchill, London). A. Ruuuaner n.. ti „ u j mic Method in Neuralgi^&r iMo "Rntt^^P?,"^^^^^ and New York, 1865. hlCo'n Rheum^?Um'J?" ^ matic Gout, and Sciatica. I860 3rd edu ' j'^A Wilson on Spasm, Languor, and Palsy, Lond isil' Schramm, Pie Neuralgie der V. Nerven-Plexus iIm' fif?**'^*-, Clinical Remarks cn Neuralgia. Lancet 1861. C. B. Radcliffe, On Epilepsy, Pain, and Para- lysis, 1864. Brown-Siquard, art. Diseases of Nerves in vol. u. of Holmes' Surgery, 1862. A. Johnson, art' Articular Neuralgia of same work. Todd, Clinical Lectures on Paralysis, &c., 1854. Putignal of Lun- ville, Gm. Hebd. de. Med. et. Chir. 1864. Macculloch, An Essay on Remittent and Intermittent Dls- ''"^i^^'J^^t^F"'®^?.' '^""'J- 1828. Hookei; Inzani, &nA Michel on Division of Neuralgic Nerves, Year- book of Med. and Surg. 1859. Dr. Tilt, Lancet, 1861. Dr. Henry Bennett, Lancet, 1864. NEUROMA (from vivpov, a nerve), a term originally employed by Odier, to signify a tumor formed in or upon a nervous trunk. This subject has been ably investigated by Mr. Wood, whose results are given in the Edinb. Med. Chir. Trans. vol. iii. part 2. Tumors connected with nerves are subject to much variety. Sometimes, though rarely, the swelling consists almost entirely of a cyst filled with a fluid, as exemplified in the case operated upon, and reported by Cheselden. In other instances, it is in part solid, and in part fluid • more frequently it is solid throughout. ' [As a rule, however, and as usually seen, a neuroma is nothing more or less than a fibrous tumor, usually of small size, embedded in the nerve itself, or, at all events, enveloped in the neu- rilemma of the nerve. " Neuromas," says Browii- S^quard, "are almost always purely fibrous tumors on or between the fasciculi of a nerve. Sometimes however, with purely fibrous elements, neuromas' contain those nuclei, and fusiform, or caudate or stellate nucleate cells, which are found in granula- tions. Paget regards them as usually fibrous by natiu-e, with a thm investing capsule, the fibrous texture of which is in different specimens variously marked. But pathologists have at times dis- covered tumors of a very different nature to the purely fibrous, and which are neuromas in that they are clearly connected as to their origin with a nerve. Thus, Wedl mentions the dissection of a neuroma in the continuity of the ulnar nerve : it had a connective tissue-capsule, which was conti- nuous with the upper and lower portions of the nerve, or section; it was of a dirty grey-red colour and contained defined light-yellow specked portions not unlike the usual reticulum of cancer. There were also blood-tinged spots aud streaks.— Wedl Pathological Histology.'] ' In one of the cases detailed by Mr. Wood the tumor consisted almost entirely of a firm mem'bra- nous cyst, containing a thick fluid ; in three others It consisted partly of fluid and partly of a solid substance ; and in twenty it was of a solid texture The consistence, colour, and appearance of the solid' part differ in difierent cases, and sometimes in different parts of the same tumor. In some instances, the whole mass is very firm and hard of a whitish or yellowish colour, and of a fibro- cartilaginous appearance—harder than a nerve and rather more shining. ' The fibres run generally in a longitudinal direction, but are not always parallel, and the interstices of them were observed by Mr. Wood to be filled up by tho substance of the tumor. [" In some," says Paget, " curved shining white bundles,