LITHOTOMY. 98 bladder, in order to extract a stone. No opera- tion in surgery lias attracted so nuicli notice, or bad so nuich written upon it, as lithotomy. A lull account of tbe sentiments of every writer who has treated of it, and a detail of the infinite variety of plans of making an opening into tbe bladder, would occupy as many pages as arc allotted to tbe whole of this Dictionary. It must be my endeavour, therefore, rather to describe what is most interesting and important, than pre- tend to oiYer an article wbicb is to comprehend every tiling. Throughout the following columns, I suppose the reader to be already well informed of all that relates to the anatomy of the bladder and adjacent parts, especially the perineum. Without correct knowledge of this kind a man must be pre- sumptuous, indeed, to set himself up for a good lithotomist. The nature of calculi in the bladder, the cir- cumstances under which they form, and tbe in- fluence of diiferent periods of life, sex, climate, and localities, in promoting or preventing their production, will be considered under the head of Urinary Calculi. Here I shall principally confine myself to the symptoms of the disease, the mode of discovering the presence of the stone, and the chief methods of performing lithotomy. Symptoms op Stone. The symptoms of a stone in the bladder are, pain in the extremity of the urethra and in the glans, frequent propensity to make Avater, and go to stool, great pain in voiding the urine, and diffi- culty of retaining it, and often of keeping the fajccs from being discharged at the same time. In consequence of the calculus falling against the vesical orifice of the urethra, the stream of urine is liable to'stop suddenly while flowing in a full current, although the bladder is not empty, so that the fluid is expelled by fits, as it were. The pain is greatest towards the end of, and just after, the evacuation; there is a dull pain about the neck of the bladder, together with a sense of weight or pressure at the lower part of the pelvis; and even when the calculus is small, a slight cloudiness is seen in the urine, as soon as it begins to cool, and afterwards a large quantity of mucus is mixed with it, and sometimes the urine is tinged with blood, especially after exercise. It is correctly noticed by Sir Benjamin Brodie, that the symptoms dilTer:—1st, according to the size of the stone, the smoothness or roughness of its surface, and its general figure ; 2ndly, accord- ing to the quality of the urine (if the urine be unusually acid, or very alkaline and deposit the triple phosphate, it will'be stimulating, and the symptoms of stone will thereby be aggravated); 3rdly, according to the state of the bladder. Nothing aggravates the symptoms so much as in- flammation of the mucous membrane; this increases the sensibility of the bladder a hundredfold, and causes a small stone to produce much greater dis- tress and pain than a large one under ordinary circumstances. If the bladder bo healthy, a very small stone may produce trilling and equivocal symptoms. The patient has rather more frequent occasion to make water, a sense of irritation scarcely amounting to pain, referred to tlie neck of the bladder, urethra, and perhaps the hypogas- triuni, after the bladder has been emptied. In one instance the patient complained fur many months of nothing except an occjisional and trilling pain in one of the groins, and of the urine being tinged with blood after riding oa horseback. Bloody urine, after any jolting exercise, is a strong indication of a calculus, either in the bladder or kidney. But this symptom is often absent in the early st;i^. ■, while the stone is small, eepe- cially if the patient is leading an inactive life. (See Sir B. Brodia on Dis. of the Urinary Organs, p. 225,>d. 2.) . The pain in the glans penis and fossa navicularis is most severe after making water or after taking exercise, when the stone suddenly falls down on the neck of the bladder. This pain " is one of the most marked symptoms of the disease. A child, who labours under stone, tells you of it, not in words, but in his actions, lie is always pulling the end of the penis, and pinching it with his fingers, even BO as to cause the prepuce to become elongated. You often find his fingers with the cuticle soft and sodden, as if thej'^ had been soaked in water, from the urine which has been imbibed," (Op. cit. p. 229.) It seldom happens that calculous patients void blood with their urine before other symptoms have taken place. It is not till after the foreign body has descended into the bladder, acquired some size, and presented itself at the orifice of the viscus, that pain is occasioned, particularly when the surface of the stone is unequal, The patient then experiencesfrequent inclination to make water, and the effort to do so is attended with pain. The jolting of a carriage, riding on horseback, much walking, render the pain more acute. The urine appears bloody, its course is frequently interrupted, and sabulous matter and particles of stone are sometimes discharged with it. The desire to make water becomes more frequent and more in- supportable. The bladder is irritated and inflames; its parietcs become thickened and indurated, and its diameter is lessened, A viscid more or less tena- cious matter is observed in greater or less quantity in the urine, and is precipitated to the bottom of the vessel. The urine becomes black and putrid, and exhales an intolerable alkalescent smell, which is perceived at the very moment of the evacuation, but is much stronger a little while afterwards. The patient can no longer take any exercise without all his complaints being redoubled. The urine then becomes bloody, (See Trailc HisloriquG el Dogmatiqtto do VOpcralion da la Taille, par J. l>\ L. Bescliamps, t. i, p. 163. Paris, 1796.) The symptoms of stone in the bladder arc some- times exceedingly equivocal, and may be produced by several other disorders. " Pain in making water, and not being able to discharge the urine without the fmces, are common consequences of irritation of parts about the neck of the bladder, from a dis- eased prostate and other causes. The urine stopping in a full stream is frequently caused by a stone altering its situation so as to obstruct the passage; but the same thing may happen from a tumour or fungus in the bladder. I have seen an instance of this, where a tumour, lianging by a small pedicle, would sometimes cause obstruction, and by altering the posture would retire and give a free passage. The dull pain at the neck ot the