the kidney; nnd, move especially, gangrene of the extremities, if the clot happen lo lodfie in one of their arteries. Gangrene will be infinitely more liable to happen if the arterial obstruction occur to a patient whose arteries are already diseased, or wliose vital forces are weakened by any cause. Intense pain in the course of the obstructed vessel IS a frequent symptom of embolism. Co/tti, Klinikder einbolischeit Gefusskraiil-Jieitcn, Berlin, 1860; Dr. Kirkes on Detachment of Fibrinous Deposits from Heart, cjc, Med. CMr. Trans, vol. .xxxv. Edward Crisp on the Arteries, London, 1847; Pathological Catalogue of R. College of Sur- geons, vol. iii.] 5e)i2Yef/aH(7reHe was first described by Pott, It is very unlike the mortification from inflammation, that from external cold, from ligature, or bandage, or from aiiy ordinary cause, and this as well in its attack as m its progress. In some few instances, it makes its appearance with little or no painj but, in the majority of the cases, the patients feel great uneasiness through the whole foot and joint of the ankle, particularly in the night, even before these parts show any mark of distemper, or before there is any other than a small discolored spot on the end of one of the little toes. It generally makes its first appearance on the inside, or at the extre- mity, of one of the smaller toes, by a small black or bluish spot; from this spot the cuticle is always found to be detached, and the skin under it to be of a dark red colour. If the patient has lately cut his nails or corns, it is most frequentlj', though very unjustly, ascribed to such operation. In some patients, it is slow and long in passing from toe to toe, and from thence to the foot and ankle; in others, its progress is rapid, and horridly painful • It generally begins on the inside of the small toe, before it is visible either on its under or upper part; and when it makes its attack on the foot the upper part of it first shows its distempered state by tumefaction, change of colour, and some- tmies by vesication; but wherever it is, one of the first marks of it is a separation or detachment of the cuticle. The prof-ress of this variety of mortification is denoted beforehand by uneasiness, numbness, and a remarkable coldness and paleness of the part i^hlycteiifB often form, and underneath them is a slough; but on other occasions there are none, and then black spots suddenly appear, and are converted into sloughs; the sensibility of the parts is lost and a shrivelling, drying, and mummification of uiem ensues, in proportion as the disorder invades r, Jof f "'^"S^"- (See Dupmjtren, Chir. t. iv. Fh Vt\' T ""="'""1 of the fingers reminds me "at, though this species of mortification is only described by Pott as seated in the lower cxtremi- remarkable example of this occurred about three jeais ago, in an old woman under Mr. Listen, in cat!nr"^r'^'""T A line of demar- cation was formed a Intle below the axilla, and the do vn r separated from the dead thp l\ , H"""' '^'"^s s^wn through, We st„mp l.ealed up, and the patient recovertd MORTIFICATION. 305 Der l; "''"'P's'of spontaneous gangrene of the up- imbs, are given by Dnpuytren and Cruveilhier. case, n ''"^ «f these cntir;i r^^.'"-?'"^^' imperceptible, or ceases roi n^^' of the artery, a hard pulsations, and the ascent of the cord up the imb, the progress and limits of the mischief may be calculated. Dupnytren declares, that this chronic form of mortification is not essentially connected either with old age, or ossification of the arteries. In its commencement, it appears to him to bo sometimes quite a local affection; the respiration, circulation, intellectual and digestive functions, being all carried on at first with regu- laritj'. He admits, however, that hard drinking and disease of the valves of the heart are gene- rally concerned as exciting causes of arteritis; and that such arteritis may take place, producing coagulation of the blood, and obstruction in the diseased arteries of old subjects, as well as in the sound ones of young persons. (See Dupur/tren. Op. et vol. cit, p. 492.) Even when the whole of the foot has morti- fied, and all below the upper third of the leg is intensely cold, the motions of the ankle are per- formed, which, as Dupuytren observes, is explicable by the fact, that most of the muscles of the foot ascend to the neighbourhood of the knee, a point to which the disorder has not yet reached. For one female, in whom Pott had met with this form of mortification, he had seen it in at least twenty males. He had much more often found it in the rich and voluptuous, than in the labouring poor; more often in great eaters, than free drinkers. It frequently happens to persons advanced in life, but It is by no means peculiar to old age. Many instances of this species of gangrene in females are now upon record. Dupuytren adverts to Its occurrence in children only ten years old, and in women of twenty and forty. The particulars of some of these cases are also given by him. (See Lemons Orales, ^c. t. iv. p. 485.) Other instances of It in females are described by Cruveilhier. {Anat. Pathol, t. ii. livr. xxvii.) I attended the,late Mrs. W., of Guildford-street, for this species of mortification, which proved fatal to her. In this instance, it began on the heel, and extended so slowh', that It had not reached further than the ankle at the end of nine months, when the lady died. Sir B. Brodie saw this patient, with me, about a fortnight previous to her death. There is great variety, then, in the rate at which this gangrene advances, Cruveilhier relates one case in which- the patient lived nearly a year with it. Mrs. W., whom I attended, lived nine months; a gentle- man whom I attended in Gray's Inn, with Mr. Hughes, of Holborn, lived about six weeks; and another patient whom I attended, with Mr. Baker, of Staines, was destroyed by it in ten days; the' disorder, in this short time, having reached from the toes some way up the leg. [Gouty Degeneration of Arteries.Sit Benjamin Brodie, like Pott, denies that gangrene from de- generation of arteries is, as might have been supposed a priori, the especial malady of persona in the lower ranks of life, subsisting by their daily labour, and undergoing all kinds of privations. On the contrary, he affirms it to be one of the many penalties paid by persons who enjoy ease and affluence, and who live luxuriously; and more especially by those who neglect exercise, and take too much animal food and fermented liquors. (nrndlc's Worlcs, /•}/ 0. Ilan-kins, vol. iii. p. .377.) This accords with what is known of the tendency of the goiity to imperfect metamorphosis of tin; fibrous tissues, to atheromatous degeneration of ths X