TRUSS. 788 introduced by Mr, Spencer Wells and others, to draw off the fluid rapidly during the operation of ovariotomy. (See Ovariotojiy.) India-rubber tubing is adjusted to the canula for the purpose of conveying the fluid into a convenient receptacle, and a contrivance is connected to the proximal end of the large canula, by means of whicli the cyst is held securely to it.] TRUSS, {troussa, French.) Brachcrium. A bandage, or apparatus, fcr keeping a hernia re- duced. A truss, which fulfils its intention properly, should compress the neck of the hernial sac, and the ring, or external opening of the hernia, in such a manner, that a protrusion of any of the contents of tiie abdomen will be prevented with complete security. Hence, it is the indispensable quality of a good truss, first to make effectual and equal pressure on the parts indicated, without causing pain or inconvenience to the patient; secondly, not easily to slip out of its right situation, in the varying motions and positions of the body. Trusses are either of an elastic or non-elastic kind. The latter are composed of leather, fustian, dimity, or similar materials. These cannot be at all depended on, and should, therefore, be entirely banished from surgery. Since (.as Mr. Lawrence has remarked) the size of the abdomen varies, ac- cording to the different states of the viscera and to the motions of its parietcs in respiration, a non- elastic baudage must vary constantly in its degree of tightness, and keep up either too great or too little pressure. The omentum, or intestine, easily slips out when the opening is not exactly closed, and the patient who wears such a bandage must be in a state of constant insecurity. Those who lead an active life, or are obliged to use laborious exertions, will be more particularly exposed to risk. If the patient, after experiencing these defects, en- deavours to rem.edy them by drawing the bandage tighter, he may confine the viscera in position, but he produces other inconveniences. The increased pressure injures the spermatic cord, and may af- fect the testicle ; the integuments become red, painful, and excoriated, and the baudage must be entirely laid aside until the parts have recovered. Ilichter h.as often sesn .painful tumefaction of the testicle, hydrocele, and even cirsocele, produced from this cause, and entirely dissipated by the em- ployment of a proper truss. [Traiie des Hernies, p. 24.) He also saw the pad of a non-elastic bandage excite, in the region of the abdominal ring, a considerable inflammation, which terminated after a few days in suppuration. The hernia never appeared again after the cure of the abscess. The inflammation had extended to the neck of the sac, and obliterated that part. {On Rupluros, ed. 3. pp. C9, 70.) The spring is a very essential part of every elastic truss, and it consists of a flat, long piece of steel, which is adapted to the side of the body on which the hernials situated. It is not a great many years since the spring used to be made of common iron, and Arnaud and Ricliter express their preference to a mixture of nialleable iron and steel, so that the instrument may be moulded by the hand to any particular shape ; but, as Mr. Lawrence well observes, a truss wliicli admits of such management, must be more or less liable to tlie objections which apply to inelastic bandages, and the only material which possesses the requisite qualities of firmness and elasticity is well-tem- pered steel. The front part of the steel spring has an expanded form, and, when the truss is properly applied, ought to be situated over the mouth of the hernial sac. The spring of a truss has commonly been a semicircle, with the posterior end resting on the spine. Camper proposed to carry it round to the anterior superior spine of tlie ilium on the sound side ; a plan of which Scarpa highly ap- proves. Trusses of this form fit with a degree of steadiness which cannot be given to others by tightening the strap. They kes'p up the rupture better than even a stronger spring of the connnoa kind. Under the back surface of the anterior end of the spring is placed the pad, which should be adapted in shape and size to the passage which is intended to be shut up. The steel spring is usually covered with leather, is lined with soft materials, and, after being put on the patient, is fastened in its situation by means of a strap, which extends from the two ends of the spring, round the side of the body on which the hernia is not situated. Hare-skin, with the fur outwards, is sometimes considered the best covering for preserving the spring from the ill effects of perspiration. When it is necessary to make strong compres- sion, as in large old ruptures, and in persons who cannot avoid labour and exercise, the elastic spring should be m.ade accordingly thicker and broader. But, an object of first-rate importance is to make the spring press equally upon every point of the body which it touches. This is what demands the earnest attention both of the surgeon and the instrument-maker, especially as the hips of some individuals are flat and narrow, while those of other persons are broad and prominent. A thick, flexible metallic wire, accurately applied round the pelvis, will serve to take the measure and pro- per shape of the spring, which may afterwards be altered a little if found necessary. The wire, however, should be somewhat longer, on account of the length of the spring. Tile springs of trusses, intended for children and persons who do not undergo much labour and ex- ertion, need not be made so strong as those de- signed for hard-working, active people. The idea that children cannot wear steel trusses, is as erroneous as it is dangerous in its practical consequences; a point on which Mr. Pott has strongly insisted. Trusses are sometimes fabricated with a pad moveable on a spring, instead of being riveted to it. This may be inclined upwards or downwards, according to the form of the abdomen ; and it is retained at the desired point by a spring fitting into the teeth of a rack. In others, the plate con- tains a screw, by which the cushion is pushed fur- ther inward, or .illowed to recede at pleasure. Although there cannot be a doubt that some of these inventions possess considerable merit, and are in certain instances eminently useful, it must be confessed that, in general, their utility is not so much greater than that of common pads, as to make amends for the want of simplicity and the increase of expense. I should be sorry, however, to say anything that would unfairly discourage all such ingenious endeavours to improve an instru- ment so difficult to bring to perfection as a truss ; especially ii5 I believe there are particular cases in which pads, with racks, screws, springs, pivots, &c., may be employed with great advantage. Notwithstanding every care, sometimes even elastic trusses cannot be liinderod from slipping