seliii, nnd Weidmann. ''At the hospital, Saint Antoine, twice, aiid at that of La Pitie', I have seen (says M. Velpeau) the bones of the cranium, after being denuded, and in contact with pus, for ten days or a fortnight,no longer interfere with the healing of the wound, and in another week the patients were cured. The occurrence, moreover, is far from being rare, and I have noticed it in other bones—the tibia, the bones of the nose, the phalanges, &c. There is no reason to be aston- ished at this; for necroses of a much deeper kind may disappear in the midst of the soft parts, and prove but feeble obstacles to cicatrization. Cer- tain patients have afforded me proof of this after amputation of tiie leg. In two of them, the end of the fibula j in one, the angle of the tibia ; and in a fourth, the surface of both bones remained in a state of necrosis quite visible for more than a week, and then becoming gradually enveloped by the gra- nulations, caused no obstacle to the healing of the Btump." From these and other cases which fell imder the observation of M. Velpeau, he infers that there is a dissolution or absorption of the dead bone, and not an imperceptible exfoliation ; and that certain necroses may disappear without any detachment of tiie sequestrum. Hence, in par ticular instances, he recommends leaving a ne- crosis alone. The facts and practice to which it leads, he admits, were not unknown to Russell. (See Velpeau de I'Oper. du Trepan, p. 20. 8vo., Paris, 1834.) In some instances, a thin layer of bone separates, and is imperceptibly destroyed, or else expelled. Rarely the dead layer of bone, though very thick, ceases to keep up suppuration, and yields to the molecular action of the surround- ing textures. {lb.) [M. Paul Broca relates two cases where a large sequestrum remained encysted in the soft parts, in one instance for fift3'-three, in the other for forty- ■ three years, without causing any discomfort or un- dergoing any alteration in form or size. (CosicUo's Fract. Surff. vol. iii. p. 261.) Stanley also gives examples of pieces of necrosed bone having been encased by the soft parts, which then healed up firmly over them. Rarely, though occasionally, the same thing may be observed in the complete disappearance from view of the necrosed stump of the shaft of a bone after am- putation, without any perceptible exfoliation. A piece of dead bone, when completely sepa- rated, may become attached to the living bone around it, through the medium of new osseous de- posit, and cease to keep up irritation in the^neigh- bouring structures. Gulliver, in his experiments, found this to occur. He introduced a piece of bone into the' medullary canal of the tibia of a rabbit, and at the end of some weeks it was firmly united to the living bone, whilst upon its surface small nodules of new bone were deposited. In a case, recorded by Mr. Perry, where the lower jaw ■was removed for necrosis, it was covered by a quantity of unhealthy looking osseous material closely jesembling pumice-stone. (Mai. CIdr. Jrans. vol. xxi.)] The last thing, which nature does, Is to restore the loss of substance which the bono has suffered Although this operation is so extraordinary and" wonderful, that one might bo disposed to doubt its reality, numerous examples, recorded in the annals ot surgery, prove not only its possibility, but also U8 frequency. NECROSIS. artS7S%'lf"'-'^ '° '1 '-^'"^'"Sion of this aiticle, the following authors speak of the reire- neration of a part, or the whole of the lower iaw- bone ; viz. Bonetus, Bayer, Guernery, Belmain Acrel, Van Wy^ Trioen, Bonn, ReipleT^, 0^1": Henkel, and Dussaussoir. A student showed Weidmann a lower jaw-bone, which had been thus regenerated, and taken from the body of a man, whom the latter distinguished writer had been well acquainted with. The bone could not be freely depressed: yet it performed its functions tolerably well. [Syme removed the entire ramus of the jaw, with Its condyle and coronoid process, the whole of which was restored. (Edw. Med. and Sun,. Journ.) Lessen has collected about thirty cases of reproduction in this bone after necrosis (Gcae/e and Walther's Journal, vol. xxii.), and others have been recorded. Schulze reports a case where teeth were formed in the new jaw. {Arch. Gen. de Med. 1853. vol. ii. p. 726.) Dr. Sieveking re- lates an instance of necrosis of the whole lower jaw, excepting the condyles, where there was com- plete restoration. {Jones and Sieveking, Paili. Anat. 1854.) An example is also recorded in St. Bar- tholomew s Hospital Reports, vol i.] Moreau saw a case in which the clavicle was regenerated, and the new bone was presented by JJ'Angerville, after the patient's decease, to the Academy of Surgery at Paris. {Mem. de VAcad. Roy. de Clm: tome v.) [A nearly similar instance may be found in the Repertoire d'Anaiomie et de Physiologie, vol ii Meyer, of Zurich, extirpated this bone for disease, and It was replaced by a new one nearly four inches long, {araefe and WaWier's Journ. vol. xix )] Chopart had an opportunity of witnessing the death and reproduction of a scapula. {De Necrosi Ossmm Theses, Press. F. Chopart, resp. P. G /fote)-^, Parisiis, 1776.) [Klencke has also met with this in the human subject. ( Wagner on Reseetions of Bones. Neio Syd. Soc. 1859.) Specimens of it in the horse are to be seen m-the Museum of the Veterinary tollege at Alfort; in these the original bone forms a sequestrum, which is enclosed in a case of newly- lormed osseous tissue.] Weidmann saw an instance, in which nearly the whole cylindrical shaft of the humerus perished and was afterwards regenerated; a phenomenon that had been observed at earlier periods by Job of Mekren, Cajetano, Taconi, E. Blancard, Du- luimel, David, Acrel, Boehmer, Cheseldcn and Vigaroux, whose respective works are cited at the end of this article. Morand, Cheselden, and Brom- tield, published engravings respecting a reproduc- tion of the upper part of the humerus, where the old dead bone was included in a sort of bony tube. [Dupuytren has preserved a specimen where the entire shaft of the humerus is necrosed, and almost completely surrounded by new bone' and another where the whole of the middle part of this bone has been restored. Ricord {Gas. Med de Faris,V,H2, p. 63!)) gives a case of reproduction ol a humerus, eiglit and-a-lialf inches in length alter necrosis.] ' Regpiierationa of the ulna have been observed by Ruysch, Duvernoy, and I'owles. (See Thesatir A. No. 176. Trait!: des Mai. des Os, Paris 1751 '. and Phil. Trans. No. 312.) A similar reproduc- tion of the lower ends of the radius and ulna was