528 Stricture of the Rectum. [The rectum, like the urethra and oesophagus, is liable to coiitniction in consequence of iiiflaiunia- tory deposit in and around its walls. A stricture may be situated at any part of the canal, but in the great majority of cases it is near enough to the anus to be discoverable by digital examination. Those in which it is placed higher than this are of quite exceptional occurrence. Its most common position is at about one and a half or two inches from he lower termination of the bowel. It is more frequent in women than in men, according to the writer's experience, in the proportion of about four to one. It is characterised by a uniform circular contraction of the calibre of the intestine from the deposition of lymph in the submucous and . muscular tissues, the mucous surface being in the first instance uninjured, but at a later stage it is exceedingly liable to ulceration. It may form merely a circular ring surrounding the bowel— annular stricture—or it may be of considerable longitudinal extent.] In the various descriptions given of the com- plaint by writers, one great point of difference is remarkable, viz., that som.e of tli-m represent the case as always of an incurable nature, while others consider it as admitting of relief, at least when it has not made considerable progress, and the parts are free from ulceration. " Many strictures of the rectum (as a judicious writer has remarked) are in their nature quite harmless, injurious only inasmuch as they present a mechanical obstruction, or disorder the functions of the alimentary canal, and fatal only from neglect. In many cases, also, great thickening and induration prevail, without the least tendency to cancer; at least, the latter disease has not supervened, even after an interval of many years." There will be less confusion in the account of this subject, if the consideration of simple stric- ture, or contraction of the rectum, be separated entirely from that of cancerous, or malignant disease. In dissecting a case of simple stricture of the rectum. Sir Benjamin Brodie found the mucous membrane thickened, of a harder structure than natural, and the muscular tunic also thickened. " The stricture sometimes occupies the whole length of the gut, for some way up above the anus, perhaps three or four inches; at other times, it is only of short extent. Frequently the gut is of its natural diameter close to the anus, and, about an inch and a half, or two inches above it, thore is a circular contraction, and then above that the gut is of its natural diameter aiiain. Al- though the contraction may occupy only a small portion of the length of the rectum, yet the dis ease of the tunics is generally more exiensive. ' {Sir D. Brodie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi. p. 28.) Mr. Calvert says tiie contraction is chiefly owing to a thickened and indurated state of the mucous menibiane, arising from inflammation, or some chronic alteration of texture ; but that wiieii the disease has existed a considerable time, the niucous, cellular, and muscular coats become more or less affected; so that, on dissection, it is often impossible to determine in which the disease originally commenced. As the disease, at first, is not very painful, it is usually not much noticed till semewhat advanced. RECTUM, DISEASES OF. The patient is at first habitually costive, or affected with what is called a torpid state of the bowels, and usually voids his stools with a little difficulty. In time a good deal of pain is felt in the part affected, especially at stool, after which some relief is experienced. As the gut continues to decrease in diameter, the efforts to expel the fseces become more violent, and the consequent progress of the disease more rapid. The stools, which have been long evacuated with difticultv, become contracted in size, appearing like earth- worms in their form, or small pellets; and, if the finger be introduced into the rectum, it will be opposed by a hard ring of a cartilaginous fee), composed of the diseased inner membrane of the intestines. These states, as Mr. Copeland ob- serves, are very different from the regular tumor on the anterior part of the rectum, occasioned by an enlargement of the prostate gland; a case apt to be suspected. " As the disease advances (says the same author), the faeces become more fluid, and there is a thin sanious discharge from the anus, accompanied with tenesmus." Mr. Calvert notices as the most characteristic symptoms, an unusual distension of the colon; the extension of pain, felt about the upper part of the sacrum, down to the feet, in the course of the large nervous trunks; the decrease of the tenesmus after a sufficient evacu- ation ; and the scanty motions of irregular or figured appearance. The latter effect, however, he says, is not always present throughout the dis- ease; for, if the contraction be at the upper part of the rectum, the motion may be of the usual size and appearance. (P. 147.) Pus and blood may be noticed with the excrement, particularly when the disease has advanced to the ulcerated state. Sometimes a small fistulous orifice at the verge of the anus communicates with tiie inferior portion of the diseased part. Professor Syme had a female patient, who was admitted into the Edinburgh Inlirmary on account of a fistula in ano, but, in whom, as soon as he in- troduced his finger for the purpose of guiding the knife, he found a close stricture of the rectum; yet she had been unconscious of its presence. The cause of deception Mr. Syme refers to the effects of a confirmed stricture being " in general the frequent, often almost incessant discharge of the feculent matters, owing to the copious secretion of mucus, which results from the irritation of the dis- ease; " and to the "thin slimy stools, occasionally tinged with blood, attracting more notice, than the small indurated masses of fajces passed along with them." Hence the disease is mistaken and treated as a diarrhcea. The following is Sir Benjamin Brodiu's descrip- tion of stricture of the rectum in the ulcerated stiige :—"As the disease advances, some parts of the mucous membrane ulcerate. This causes the pain to be much aggravated; there being then a discharge, not only of mucus, but of blood and pus from the anus. If the disease proceeds still further, inflammation takes place in the cellular membrane around the gut; putrid abscesses form, which biurst in various situations at every side of the anus,-into the urethra in uu'ii, and occasionally in women into the vagina. In some instances, the patient dies with symptoms of strangulated hernia; that is, a piece of hard Auces is lodged above the stricture, and cannot pii^s through it. Thus, there