PYEMIA so;5 ti iuleJ over tlie trunk nnd limbs, not unlike the .•luption of scarlet fever. The third form pre- si'Uts itself much more frequently than cither o. tlie others, although it has not hitherto much at- tracted the attention of pathologists in connection with purulent or other infection of the blood. It commences very swldenl)', and frequently without any particular attention being directed to the part. A large circular patch of congestion, livid or purple in the centre, but becoming of a lighter colour to- wards the circumference, will form, usually upon some part of the lower extremities. The skin of the calf of the leg is, perhaps, more frequently at- tacked than that of any other part. In the centre of the congested portion, mortitication very rapidly takes place, and is indicated by the part assuming a black or dull leaden colour. In some cases, it would be difficult to say where the mortification ceases and the congestion begins, but in other in- stances, there is a distinct line of demarcation fiiruied; a zone of bright red congestion will then occasionally surround the mortified part. Some modifications of this third form of affection of the skin may be met with occasionally in the course of the disease. Blotches, assuming a livid or dusk}'-red appearance (which gradually fade into the colour of the surrounding skin), will present themselves in different parts, and terminate in thick exfoliation of the cuticle, or in small sloughs of the skin. In some instances the super- ficial portions only of the skin are destroyed, and the parts beneath appear comparatively un- atTected ; small circumscribed portions of the outer layer of the skin will exfoliate, and the subjacent parts will heal without suppuration, by a process similar to that of scabbing. In the cellular membrane, serum, lymph, and pus may be deposited, mixed with each other in various proportions. The surroimding vascularity in these cases is usually small, and the lymph olt'used not properly organised ; there is, conse quently, no natural boundary to the disorganising process, and the fluid secreted becomes infiltrated iu the surrounding parts. When the muscular sincdure is affected, sup puration takes place with great rapidity ; portions (if muscles may be found quite soft, and some times pultaceous, in circumscribed patches, around which the fibre is perfectly healthy. Pus is oc- casionally deposited on the exterior of muscles, and it will be then smeared over the surface, and rather infiltrated iu the cellular tissue, than con- tained in a cyst. In the interior of muscles there is the same absence of the natural limit to the inflammation ; but owing to the more compact structure of the part, the deposits of matter gene- rally remain circiunsctibed. The serous memhranes are peculiarly liable to be attacked by secondary inflammation, and when alTccted, suppurate with the greatest readi- ness. They generally exhibit but a slight degree of vascularity, and sometimes scarcely appear more injected than in their natural condition. In tlie peritoneal cavity, largo quantities of unor- ganised lymph are frequently poured out, mixed with turbid serum or [uis. The synovial mem- branes of joints, when affected, often appear to run directly into suppuration, and will become distended with pus iu a very short spiice of time. The pleura on the other hand will seldom sup- purate at first, but lymph will be deposited upon its surface, nnd its cavity ^vill contain turbid serum, occasionally mixed with blood. The morbid actions which generally result in a contamination of the blood of the whole system may be confined in great part, if not entirely, to a particular set of vessels. This is illustrated by the following very interesting post-mortem ex- amination, made thirty-six hours after death, and recorded by Dr. Marston, ll.A. Sergeant W., a;t. 33, died on the 12th of February, 1867, having been subject for several wi'eks to great irritation of the stomach and in- testines, accompanied by jaundice, and loose dark- coloured stools. External Marks—On the front of the chest and extremities there were numerous red, inef- faceable, petechial spots. On the back, these spots were of a dark livid hue. The skin of the neck presented a diffused redness, closely resem- bling scarlatinal rash. Abdumen.—The ca3cum, about the situation of its appendix, with the right extremity of the omentum, were found to be closely adherent to the abdominal parietes, and the adherent portions of a very dark colour. On opening the intestines at this part) ""^^ found to be ulcerated and thickened, and the appendix was traced with dif- ficulty from its being embedded in a mass of tissue in a semi-gangrenous condition. A small clot of half putrid blood, with some decomposing and highly fetid fseces were discovered on slitting up what appeared to be the vermiform appendage. Upon opening the superior mesen- teric vein, it was found to contain some blood clots. In some places, these clots were so inti- mately adherent to the coats of the vein, and had been so hollowed out into a tunnelled form by the blood circidating through their interior, that the adhering fibrin looked like the lining membrane, but it was easily peeled off, and the epithelial coat below was found to be unaltered. As the epithelium presented the usual microscopical ap- pearances, it was evident that the vein itself was not the cause of the coagula. The fibrin was a deposit from the blood in the part, and not the product from a diseased lining membrane. In some places where the tunnelling was less complete, portions of decomposing blood clot still remained, with a fluid exactly resembling pus. Tlic liver, which was large and discoloured, was next ex- amined, and found to be full of small abscesses, from the size of a millet seed to that of a walnut. These metastatic abscesses, which must have been some hundreds in number, were in most in- timate connection with the various branches of the portal veins, spreading out from them like leaves from the twigs of a tree. The portal veins were laid open, and the main divisions to the right and left lobes contained decomposing clots with a quantity of pus, or a fluid like it to all appearance. The blood in the smaller branches was in a similar state, and, here and there, one of these small vessels appeared as a long white streak lying parallel to the section. The lobules, at. the least alfVctcd parts, were surrounded by a dark ring of congestion which contrasted with the white interior of the lobule. These abscesses had no limitary membrane, but vin\\ in fact, composed of the disintegrated elements of the necrosed liepalic tissue. No abscesses existed in the lunifs or oilier vvi/uus (except in a few mesenteric glands), the