222 LITHOTOMY. that the internal incision should take a transverse direction. To effect this, instead of pressing the lithotome against tlie pubis, he pressed it on the lower side of the neck of the bladder, so that the blade was turned nearly outwards, and in this direction he withdrew it. (Nelaioii, Siemens clc Pathol Chir. t. V. p. 226, 227. Paris, 1859.)] Sabatier observes, that Frere Gome's method possesses all the advantages of the lateral opera- tion, besides being more easy than Cheselden's plan, and most of the other modes subsequently proposed, for cutting the prostate gland and orifice of the bladder with perfect smoothness and to a sufficient extent to allow the calculus to be re- moved without laceration of the parts. {Mtd. Optratoire, t. iii. p. 199.) Several objections have been urged against the use of the lithotome cache. 1. Frere Come made his'incision too high, so that an extravasation of urine in the scrotum fol- lowed some of his operations; but the above method of operating is free from any objection of this kind. 2. Some surgical writers insist on the danger of cutting the bladder too extensively with the lithotome. 3. The arteria pudica profunda and the rectum, which some authors conceive to be endangered, must always be in absolute safety, if the edge of the knife of the lithotome be turned in the direc- tion above recommended. When I was in Paris in 1!!15, I saw Dr. Souberbielle operate very skilfully with the litho- tome cache. A stone of considerable size was extracted from a gentleman, who was, I should think, not less than 70. No apprehensions Avere entertained of ill-success, as I understood that this operator hardly ever lost a patient. M. Roux, when he visited England, seems not to have been informed that at the Westminster Hospital the lithotome cache had been commonly employed for many years past. It was sometimes used at Guy's Hospital by Sir A. Cooper, and it is a favourite instrument with my friend Mr. Keate. [The lateral operation with the beaked knife, such as it has been described, is the one which the writer would recommend as the standard method. But many writers of authority recom- mend other methods and certain modifications, which must be described likewise. Indeed,' it will be found in practice that hardly any two operators follow the same method pre- cisely from the beginning to the termination of the operation. Each has his own improvement or modification, the most important of which I now proceed to notice. The length of the external incision will be modified according to the size of the perineum, and, generally speaking, extends, in the ud'dt, from three to three and a half inches. " The line (as Mr. Thompson observes) is somewhat differently taken by different operators. Nearly all agree to commence a little to the lelt of the raph^, but not so in regard to the distance in front of the anus. Thus, Mr. Fergusson dn-ects that it should commence an inch and three-quar- ters in front; Mr. Erichsen, an inch and a half; Sir B. Brodie, Mr.' Stanley, and Mr. Skey advise an inch and a quarter; while Mr. Coulson and Dr. Keith (of Aberdeen) direct that it sliould com- mence at one inch only in advance. The latter attaches considerable importance to this point, and argues in its favour at some length. Mr. Crichton made his incisions always low—I infer from his notes, at about the last-named point. It is quite clear also that Cheselden himself commenced not more than one inch in advance of the anus. The directions given by other well-known operators are not expressed in precise terms, and on this accoimt they are not quoted." (^Lancet, Feb. 22, 1862, p. 194.) Now, as it appears that nearly all advise an external incision of about the same length—that is, of three inches, or thereabouts, for an adult patient—it follows that the situation of the open- ing relatively to the pubic arch and to the bl.idder must differ, and somewhat materiallj'. This dis- crepancy has sometimes been the source of per- plexity to the student; although it is true that, where the incisions are commenced high up the skin only is cut at first, and where they are low the knife is made to penetrate deeply at once, so that in any case the deepest part of the incision is made into the hollow between the accelerator and the erector penis muscles, just beneath and outside the bulb of the urethra. Nevertheless, I believe it is the safer practice to err (if it be an error) by placing the incision too low rather than too high. The low incision avoids the bulb and the artery leading thereto; it enters the urethra in the mem- branous portion, or just at the apex of the pro- state; and it places the'axis of the v.'ound in its best relation to the pubic arch—that is, as far as possible from that unyielding boundary of the perineal space. It thus affords room for removing a large stone, and lessens the chance of bruising the neck of the bladder, with its external cellular relations, in the act of extraction. Mr. Samuel Smith, of Leeds, whose clinical observations on the subject of lithotomy will well repay perusal,, introduces the left forefinger into the anus, and places the extremity of it on the apex of the prostate. He enters the knife a few lines to the left of the raphe', about three-quarters of an inch below the termination of the scrotum, aiming towards the apex of the prostate, but re- membering that, although the finger is placed m the rectum touching the apex to give an nidica- tion where that is to be found, it is still placed as a sentinel on guard over the rectum. (See Dnt. Med. Joiirn., Jan. 1869.) ^ Mr. Skey and some other surgeons advise " the knife to be pushed straight backw.irds at once into the groove of the staff" {Op. Surg., London, 1850, p. 550) ; that is to say, cutting on the groove from the skin to the urethra with a single incision; but even the most practised operator might find such a proceeding difficult; and it will be more prudent to make way by a few rapid touches of the scalpel. . , Mr. Skey recommends the use of a staff witii an increased convexity at the part corresponding to the perineum, to facilitate the exposure of the groove, but straight beyond the curve to the point, 10 facilitate the transmission of the knife onwards into the bladder. Mr. Skey holds the statl >n fns left hand while he is making the deep The point at which the membranous part of the urethra should be opened next requires notice Lithotoniists were formerly in the habit of ranking this incision much too far forwards; but since