262 LITIIOTRITY. record that some operators have found it impossible to make the female bladder retain the fluid Avhich they injected; and hence reject lithotrity altogether for the female. It may happen that the bladder of a female patient is small, contracted, excessively irritable, and incapable of retaining the injection. This occurs in the female as well as in the male, and when it does occur lithotrity should not be undertaken. But this is no reason for converting the exception into a rule. Under ordinary cir- cumstances the female bladder will retain the injection well enough ; and if the bladder show any disposition to reject it, this can be overcome by elevating the pelvis a little more than usual, and by confining the quantity of fluid thrown in to four or five ounces. The rapidity with which the operation may be completed in the female renders it much less necessary to have the bladder distended with fluid.' (1. c. p. 265.) Lithotrity has been applied to females with success in many of the London Hospitals within the last few years. In several of these cases the density of the calculus was great, and would have presented an almost insurmountable obstacle in the male. To obviate the difficulty arising from these very hard calculi, Mr. Skey proposes the use of a very short and strong lithotrite, with the blade more scoop-shaped than in the ordinary instrument. {Lancet, Nov. 10, 18.55, p. 438.) Lithotrity has been frequently employed With complete success in female as well as in male children ; but many surgeons prefer lithotomy for the young subject. The following are the chief objections against the propriety of applying lithotrity to the young subject. The genito-urinary organs of the child are not fully developed before the age of puberty. The diameter of the urethra is small, the antero- posterior diameter of the bladder is also short ; the bladder of children is very irritable, and the neck of this organ is very dilatable, a circumstance which greatly favours the impaction of fragments in the urethra after the stone has been broken up. Finall}', the indocility of the child is a great obstacle, and often renders it impossible to mani- pulate the lithotrite in the bladder. On the other hand, it is well known that lithotomy is highly successful in children, not more than one in twenty- five or thirty dying after the operation, when performed on subjects under fourteen )'ears of age. M. Civiale, however, is of opinion that no valid reasons exist why children should be excluded from the benefits of lithotrity. The indocility of the child can be overcome by proper means. The instruments can be proportioned to the size and development of the genito-urinary organs. The curve of the urethra and the elevation of the summit of the bladder in the child are not insur- mountable obstacles, as has been asserted. There are, however, two circumstances connected with lithotrity in children, which should not be overlooked, The first relates to the density and size of the calculus. As the instruments employed must, of necessity, be small, a great number of manipulations would be required in all cases where the stone is hard and large. This would be at- tended with greater inconvenience, inasmuch as the manipulation itself is more painful and difficult than in the adult. In the next place, it is well known that the neck of the bladder in children is very dilatable, and hence it allows of the passage of large fragments which become impacted in the urethra. This is the most serious disadvantage connected with the application of lithotrity to the young subject, {Civiale, 1. c. p. 270-272.) Within the last few years lithotrity has been applied to children in many of the London Hos- pitals, and the results have not been unfavourable. Several cases operated on by Mr. Fergusson, Mr. Curling, and other surgeons, are recorded in the Lancet ioT 1865. In many of these chloroform was employed with advantage to ensure docility, and in some of the female cases the urethra had been previously dilated by means of Weiss's instrument. On the other hand, it would appear that lace- ration of the urethra in boys has occurred on more than one occasion. Mr. Wormald has stated that he examined a child after death wliose urethra had been lacerated during the passage of the litho- trite, and who died of extravasation of urine. The youngest patient was a female child, two- and-a-half years old, on whom Mr. Poland, of Guj^'s Hospital, operated with success. The cure was elfected in two sittings, without any unpleasant symptom whatever. It should be observed, how- ever, that the urethra had been slit up, not for the purpose of facilitating the introduction of the lithotrite, but to permit extraction of the stone entire, which could not be elfected. From what has been said in the preceding pages, it must be evident that lithotrity is not an ope- ration to be undertaken on light or insufficient grounds. Its success will mainly depend on its being applied in a proper manner, that is to say, on a strict observance of the indications which experience has established. In what cases then, it may be asked, is lithotrity applicable ? In what cases should it be rejected ? What are the principles to guide the surgeon in his selection of cases, in accepting some and rejecting others ? Sir B. Brodie, in the paper already alluded to, expresses himself in general terms to the efl^ect that 'lithotrity, if prudently and carefully per- formed, with a due attention to minute circum- stances, is liable to smaller objections than almost any other of the capital operations of surgerj--, the cases to which it is not applicable being very few indeed, and chiefly those in which, from the calculus having attained an unusual size, the danger and difficulty of lithotomy are so great that no surgeon would willingly undertake it.' To explain the application of lithotrit_v, M. Civiale divides cases of stone into two classes, the simple and the complicated ; and examines^or each the circumstances which are favourable or unfa- vourable to the operation. The first class comprises three series of cases. In the first or most simple of all, the bladder is healthy and of ordinary capacitj-, the prostate is not enlarged, the urethra is free, the stone small and of moderate consistenc}', the digestion and general health are good. These are the most favourable cases that can present themselves, and a cure is usually soon efl:ected, without the patient's suffering much ni- convcnience. ., In the second series the organs are still sound, or at least not i.ftected in any serious manner, and the general health is good, but the stone is larger | than in the former series of cases ; it measures from j