1034 M^OUNDS. treatment, Sec. Old nge, feebleness, disease in one of tlie organs important to life, vicious liabits, inefficient means of after-treatment, would each and all in varying degrees oppose the success of operations. Wounds of the upper extremity are of course far less serious than those of the lower, and much more can be done to save an arm than a leg. Yet with all such well-recognised rules for our guidance, cases constantly present themselves in hospital practice in which it is ex- ceedingly difficult to determine, on perfectly satis- factory grounds, whether an operation is called for or not—to weigh accurately the arguments for and against interference—and it is often no less difficult to say u-!ieu it is best to operate. Doubtless, if the need of an oparation is perfectly clear, and tlie patient's state admits of it, the sooner it is per- formed the better ; but in less evident cases we should carefully watch day by day after suppura- tion has become established, for such a favourable moment as will enable us to interfere with least risk to the patient. Poh-oiwd Wounds.—In many of these wounds it is requisite to administer internal remedies to counteract the violent constitutional depression which the poison occasions. The heart's action must be supported, and time gained for the elimi- nation of the poison. No depressing agent should be given in such wounds. In various countries special remedies have been, or still are, believed to exert a specific effect in some of the worst forms of poi- soned wounds. Thus, in snake-bites, arsenic, the arisiolochia, the snake-root leaves, the pluraieria obovata, the grease of the lizard tree, the-herva cobreira, iodine, olive oil, guaco, &c., have had a reputation. The stiongest diffusible stimulants are alone believed in by experienced men in our day. It is in this way that ammonia has proved so useful when freely administered. In Bombay a police ordinance supplies this agent at each station, together with directions for its use. The dose thus employed is 35 minims in a wine-glassful of water, but greatly larger doses have been more fre- quently used and repeated. This is just another form of the " whisky cure" of North America. That it can be more eifectually given by injection into the veins, as practised by Dr. Beaumont, of Australia, seems exceedingly doubtful, but it can, if necessary be thrown into the rectum. As it is the poison present which gives to these wounds all their gravity, it is evident that to with- draw or neutralise that poison must comprise the most important element in the local management of such wounds. Beyond this we must combat any complication which may arise. The local indications, then, are : 1. To prevent or retard the entrance of the poison into the syetem, to keep it imprisoned in the wouud till removed. 2. To withdraw it from the wound, or 3. To destroy, neutralise, or decompose it. 1st. To exclude it from the general circulation, pressure is applied between the point wounded and the heart. This must, of course, be done most promptly, and with energy sufficient to arrest the circulation in the part. In the portions of the body where the diameter is small, the grasp of the hand may be sufficient for the purpose desired, but in other cases a ligature or a tourniquet even may be required. The great speed with which a poison is carried towards the heapt miilccs it ne:c8sary to be very prompt in the application of these measures. Pressure, however, can at best be only looked on as a temporary step, and as affording time for the removal or neutralising of the poison. 2nd. Measures which iiim at withdrawing the poison. Suction in some form is the most efficient of these measures. If the wound is a contracted and deep one, it should be enlarged so that its deptlis may be reached, and while a stream of water (or f^pirit and water, as advised by some) is poured with some force into it, the part may be (•queeaed so as to express the blood, and so carry the poison out of the wound. If the poison be one to which a chemical antidote is known, then the fluid used to wash the wound may have that agent mixed with it ; but there are few poisons which complicate wounds of a nature to allow of such treatment, and the antidote is not likely to be at hand. Suction with the mnuth is possibly the most effectual of all methods of withdrawing a poison from a wound. If there is no lesion on the lips this can be accomplished with the most perfect safety, and to secure, if possible, greater surety, the mouth can be afterwards rinsed with spirits and water. The experiments of Barry made the use of cupping glasses a mode of treating poisoned wounds from which much good was expected, but besides the fact that these are seldom available when the occasion fur their use arises, they are difficult to apply to an irregular or small surface so as to be of any service. Pravaz -invented a very ingenious instrument, which scarified the wound, sucked out the poison, and enabled the surgeon to inject any fluid he desired into its depths. This for practical purposes can hardly be regarded as else than an ingenious toy. Excision can seldom be necessary ; but if freer access to the wound and more thorough emptying of its blood-vessels, as well as more complete removal of all possibly contami- nated tissue, were deemed desirable than can be got by simple enlargement of the wound, then such a step may be undertaken. By excision, perhaps, greater confidence is given to a patient who is in dread of the result, as after the bite of a mad dog. 3rd. To neutralise the poison various chemical agents may be employed. Caustics are supposed to effect this partly, and partly to destroy the tissue in which the poison may still lurk. The actual and potential cautery—the strong mineral acids—acid nitrate of mercury, and galvanism, have all had their advocates. Nothing acts more effectually than strong nitric acid. Pravaz studied galvanism in this connection, and supposed it capable ol removing the poison when lying deeply in the tissues or among blood-vessels, more salely and surely than any other agent. Nitrate of silvercannot be relied upon except for the slighter cases. The actual cautery is much more fiu'midable to apply I'la" ^ acid, and is not more efficacious. In desperate cases ampuUUion has been had re- course to, but there are few instanc s in which a deliberate review of the circuinstauccs can justify this at an early stage, though later the disorganisa- tion following a severe poisoned wound may caU for it. , , Lastly, if, as a result of a poisoned wound, cel- lular inilammation or lymphatitis arise, they must be treated as usual, and abscesses opened so soon as formed. The convalescence is frequently very