LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OF. also some amount of sub-mucoui effusion. The swollen, tense, and inflexible epiglottis can some times be seen and generally can be felt with the When acute laryngitis passes into the 182 dation, and the brain, no longer supplied with its stimulus of red blood, gets torpid and dormant. We do not frequently meet with ulceration in acute and sub-acute laryngitis, but it is a common condition in the chronic form of the disease. When it arises in connection with syphilis, it not tmfrequently spreads downwards from the velum and palate to reach the larynx, and passmg even further along the air passages, invades the tiachea. In syphilitic ulceration, the usual seat of the sores is the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis, and the upper part of the larynx, while m the ulceration which accompanies Phthisis pulmonalis, the ulcers are found on the true vocal cords, and over the cricoid cartilage. When the ulceration is due to syphilis, the sores are usually larger, irregular and shallow, and covered with a dirty adherent slough. Ulcers of a small deep circular shape are also occa- sionally met with in the larynx, and these some- times penetrate and destroy the cartilages, buch sores heal by contraction and not by granulation. Laryngitis in all its forms is a source of very great anxiety to the surgeon. In the acute and sub-acute forms it is peculiarly a cause of appre- hension, from the suddenness of the seizure in many cases, the rapidity of the progress the fearful nature of the symptoms, the fatality which attends it, and the terrible agony of the death Ihe patient in the more acute forms of laryngitis dies by a slowly induced asphyxia, or by a paroxysm of spasm; while in the chronic variety of the com- plaint he dies of spasm, or of irritation and exhaustion. p -n i ;i «it. Acute Larmgitis in the words of Ryland is perhaps the most formidable of the inflammatory diseases to which the human frame is liable. I he symptoms are those of general fever and local in- flammation. The symptoms of the general fever require no description, those which are directly due to the local lesion will be briefly enumerated. The early symptoms are attributable to mpeded respiration, the later to interference with the arterialisation of the blood. At the outset this 'treacherous disease often appears to be nothing hut a severe " sore throat When this is followed by pain, especially excited . by pressing the larynx against the ^P^^-'J^ l feeling of constriction in the upper part of the wkdpipe, and difiiculty of swallowing (often an Tarlv symptom), anxiety and alarm are occasioned. As thfsw'elling'of the lips of the glott^ increases the respiration will become "^^'^^^f. peded, and eventually raucous and str dulous or hissing breathing, together with a f.ra^''"g ^ovvn wards'of the larynx at each insp.ra .on, will mad the more advanced stages of the affection. The voice becomes partially or wholly «npp^«=«„«J; i^';;,";. irritating cough troubles the patient. T e ncreas^ ing dyspnoea augments the alarm. ^ "J and attitudes of the patient g-^aphically pouitraj the terrible struggle which is going on The prominent eyeballs, expanded l'^;^^;'?^ U leaden Le an^—«„f ^^^^^^ pressive. In violent parox) smb u :„\tn.h\e onset. The pulse, at first quick and i.ritable becomes feeble and int",'"\"^"*- JJ1," 4d becomes cold and bathed m P^P-f;!'™' '""^^^ delirium renders, if possible, more terrible the last moments of the poor suff'erer. . , f +1,. After death we find distinct injection ot the raucous membrane of the larynx and epiglottis, ana finger. « ^ . . sub-aoute or chronic form, it is very generally fatal, and that in a few hours, or perhaps not for a week, the duration being uncertain, and in a great measure dependent on the constitution, habits and age of the patient, the intensity and violence of the attack, and the activity of the treatment. The diagnosis is usually easy. The history of the seizure, the adult age, the accompanying fever, the hissing inspiration and free expiration, the cough, the seat of the pain, the sound of the voice, the difficult deglutition, and the drawing down ol the larynx during inspiration. Further the condition of the epiglottis as revealed to the eye or touch, the absence of disease of the lungs and of general swelling of the neck, and finally the ability to open the mouth widelv, will serve to distinguish laryn- gitis from asthma, phthisis, spasmodic affections, foreign bodies in the air passages, abscesses ex- ternal to the windpipe, and tumours at the root of the lungs or in the neck. Prognosis. This disease is always highly dan- gerous, and often fatal, hence the prognosis should be very guarded. The state of the respiration and'the condition of the blood will he the chief key to the future progress and result. The treatment of this form of laryngitis must be early and energetic, in order to be effectual. It com- prises the employment of anti-phlogistic measiures, both locally and constitutionally. Unless these are put in force before effusion has occurred, they wiU do more harm than good. Leeches freely applied to the upper part of the larynx, followed by fomen tations or hot cloths with turpentine ; or if more rapid effects are desired, the application of the strong liquor of ammonia, or flannel, or a sponge wrung out of hot water, will answer the immediate end - but these measures produce a state of matters unfavourable to any operation on the wmdpipe which the progress of the case may subsequently demand, by the swelling and infiltration of the tissues external to the larynx, winch they leave General blood-letting, so strongly recommended by Dr. Cheyne and others, and the use of nierciu-y and antimony, have been almost entirely abandoned m the early management of these cnses I the patient be plethoric and come to us ^vith a flushed face and bounding pulse general Weeding and antimony may undoubtedly be required, but m the majority of cases these measures do no good while actual harm may arise from the persistent depression and weakness causett by the bleedin and the vomiting so often set up by the antmiony This remark is the more true as the surgeon doe not often see his patient in the stag^Y^en geneml bleeding can be of any possible benefit. Mercu^ again, is too slow of action, except m such doses at would be most hurtful dunng t^^e later s ages the complaint. Local remedies must undoubtedl) be our chief reliance. jTcnnQm If the disease goes on unchecked, and f spsm and dyspnea become urgent, the ^Jf^ J pipe il opened the better. This n«^' though often neglected, step, to bo eftect" J shm'l be accomplished before the functions of the lung and brain have become seriously >mpa''^«'^- \' . as a last resource, it is simply useless. Accoid.n to Mr. Lawrence it should be done so soon