SPINA BIFIDA. G05 case reported by Fieliz. (See RicJiier^s Chir. Bill. b. 9. p. 185.) Sometimes the tumor is composed of two distinct cysts, ns happi'ned in tlie case re- corded by Mr. Brewei ton {Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xvii.); but this is uncommon. The Arabians, who first treated of this disease, erroneously imputed the deficiency of the spinous processes to the tumor, while it is now well known, that the incomplete state of the affected vertebrfe is a congenital malformation, and that the swelling is only an effect. In fact, the tumor generally becomes larger and larger, the longer it continues. Spina bifida is seldom met with, ex- cept in children, very few living to adult age with this highly incurable affection. Warner, however, has related a case, in which the patient lived till he was twenty. {Cases in Siiiyciy, p. 134, 4 edit.) I have also seen, under the care of Mr. C. Hutchison, a young woman, 19 years of age, who had a spina bifida, which was of astonishing size, and situated at the lower part of the vertebral column. One curious circumstance in the case was, that the patient used to menstruate through a sore in the thigh. I conclude this is the same case as is described by Mr. Jukes (see Med. and Phi/s. Journ. for Feb. 1822), and who states the measurement of the swelling to have been 30 inches in its vertical line. The urine and faeces used to pass involuntarily. The swelh'ng is most frequently situated towards the lower part of the spinal canal, particularly at tlie place where the lumbar vertebrse join the sacrum. The fluid which it contains resembles serum, being somewhat more liquid than the white of egg, and, like the latter, coagulable. It is in general limpid and colourless; but, occasionally, turbid and tinged with blood. On pressing the tumor, a fluctuation is very perceptible, and a pre- ternatural space may also be felt existing between some of the spinous processes. The fluid is con- tained in a kind of cyst, which is composed of the continuation of the dura mater, investing the spinal canal, and is for the most part closely adherent to the integuments. Spina bifida is frequently attended with hydro- cephalus, and the enlargement of the head has been known to undergo a considerable diminution, after the casual rupture of the tumor over the spine. {Morr/ac/ni, de Sed. el Caus. Morb. epist. 7. art. 0, Ephem. Cur. Nat. decad. .3. art. 1, decad, 2. art. 2.) The fluid, which was lodged in the lateral and third ventricles, passed into the fourth, through the aqua:ductus Sylvii, ruptured the calamus scriptorius, and thus passed into the spinal canal. Spinre bifidie usually occur on the lower part of the spine; but they occasionally take place on the cervical vertebrse, where the tumors have the same characteristic marks as those near the sacrum. Miinj' facts, recorded by Ruysch, confirm the pre- ceding account. (06s. Anat. Chir, Ccnluria, 4to. Amst. 1091.) This affection generally terminates fatally; some few cases are recorded which have got well of themselves, and others which have been cured by treatment. Death, however, usually follows an operation upon the tumor, and sometimes instantly. Tulpiiis observes on this subject: Quum calainitn- Icm si (juidcm rf/hrmides, chiruri/e, cave sis imprnvide aperias, qund lam facilh nccidil liuminem, {UIjs. Med. ed. 5, Lugd. But. 1710'.) But, whether the tumor be operated upon or not, still the disease is one of the most fatal to which childriU are e.Kposed. When afflicted with it, they seldom reach the age of three years; but, after lin- gering several months from their birth, suddenly die. It has been said that children with spina bifida always have their legs in a paralytic state. However, this is not true; for one of tlie largest spinse bifida I ever saw was under my friend Mr. Maul, of Southampton, and was unattended with any weakness of the legs. Indeed, the child was, to all appearance, as stout, healthy, and full of play as possible. The fatal event, however, took place after a time, as usual; and, a little before death, a remarkable subsidence of the swelling occurred, which however never burst externally'. Still it is a fact, that many infants, with spina bi- fida, have paralytic legs, and cau neither retain their fasces nor urine. [Spina bifida is, after club foot, the most com- mon malformatkm of the fostal skeleton. Billaud met with seven children thus affected in one year at the Hopital des Enfaus-Trouves {Traile. des Maladies des Enfans, nouveaux-n:s el a la ■rnainelle), and Chaussier records twenty-two cases of the same disease out of 132 children who were malformed. It is nearly always congenital, al- though according to Morgagni it may be developed in the first years of life, when the component parts of the vertebrae are still capable of separation; and he relates a case of Genga's where a tumor of this nature came on in the coccj'geal region after a blow on the head, in a child four years of age, who v/as the subject of hydrocephalus (Morgagni, Op. oil. epist. xii. art. 9). Gross also states that it may occur weeks or even months after birth, before the two portions of the arch have coalesced, {System of Surgery, vol. i. p. 186.) Such cases, however, are extremely rare. This affection is analogous to the malformations in other parts which arise from a want of union between their lateral halves, as is seen in cleft palate, hare lip, umbilical hernia, &c., and con- sists either in an arrest of development of the vertebral arches, or in a separation of the lamiiias, so that the fluid within the spinal canal protrudes the meninges, and a tumor containing fluid is formed along the course of the spine. In a very few instances this absence of union has been seen to extend through the bodies of the vertebrae as well, completely dividing the spinal column into two lateral halves (Fleischmann, De Vitiis Con- genilis). Spina bifida is most frequently met with in the lumbar and sacral regions; it is seldom found higher than the lower dorsal vertebrae, though Cruveilhior {Traili Anatoinie Pathologique) and others mention its occurrence in the neck. Rarely there are two or even more of these swellings over the spine, and according to Rokitansky, when this is the case, one is usually situated in the lumbar or lower dorsal region, and the other in the neck, a deficiency in the cranial bones also existing {Path. And. vol. iii. p. 226); more rarely still the fissure has been seen to extend through- out the whole length of the spine, exposing the canal from one end to the other, and the skull is then generally implicated in a similar manner. (Bidloo, Valsalva.) This affection is often more or less associated with hydrocephalus, and not unfrequently with other miillbrmations as well. (Meckel, Handbook of Path. Anal. Leipsig,