108 JOINTS, DISEASES OF, size of a fly's head, he found, on the ensuing day, that a new portion of the iris, not less than the first, had made its way through the ulcer of the ■cornea, and that the pupil was very much con- tracted, and drawn considerably further towards the ulcer of the cornea. The advantage of caustic in the recent sensible prolapsus of the iris, and the use of scissors only in old callous cases, agree also with the directions given by Beer and Travers. {Lelire von den Aiigenki: b. ii. p. 68.; and Si/nop- p. 280.) There is a particular species of prolapsus, much less frequent, indeed, than that of the iris, but which does occur, and, in Scarpa's opinion, is very improperly termed by modern oculists, ^'prolapsus of the tunic of the aqueous humour." (Janin, Pel- liei; Guerin, Gleize, S(c.) Neither do his senti- ments upon this subject agree with those of Beer, who terms the case ceratocele, and describes it as arising from a yielding of the inner layers of the cornea. And in his second volume, p. 69, he has given a description of the same kind of disease from the support of the outer layers of the cornea being destroyed by ulceration. This is a point, on which the most experienced men differ so much, that it is difficult to reconcile their statements. Dr. Vetch seems to have full reliance upon the accuracy of the accounts of a protrusion of the membrane of the aqueous humour. (0/2 Diseases of the Eye, p. 54, &c.) Mr. Travers inclines to Beer's view of the subject, and details reasons for doubting that the vesicle is a distinct texture : " its appearance corresponds accurately to that of the innermost lamella of the cornea." {Synopsis, 4'c.,p. 116.) It is, says Scarpa, a transparent vesicle, filled with an aqueous fluid, and composed of a very delicate membrane, projecting from a wound or ulcer of the cornea, much in the same way as the iris does under similar circumstances. Scarpa has several times seen this transparent vesicle full of water, elongatins; itself beyond the cornea, shortly after the operation for the extraction of cataract, and sometimes, also, in consequence of an ulcer of the cornea, especially after rescinding a pro- lapsed Dortion of the iris. Scarpa believed this pretended prolapsus of the tunic of the aqueous humour to be a protrusion of a portion of the vitreous humour, which, from too much pressure being made on the eye, either at the time of the operation, or afterwards, or from a spasm of the muscles of the eye, insinuates itself between the edges of the wound after the extrac- tion of the lens, and projects in the form of a transparent vesicle. The same thing also happens after ulcers of the cornea, whenever the aqueous humour has escaped, and a portion of the vitreous humour is urged by forcible pressure towards the ulcer fiicing the pupil ; or whenever an elongated piece of the vitreous humour, after the excision ot a prolapsed portion of the iris, passes by a shorter route than through the pupil, between the lips ot the ulcer of the cornea. At length, we understand why, in both these instances, a transparent vesicle forms, even after the excision of the tunic of the aqueous humour, or ulceration of the cornea; and why it very often reappears in the same place, though it has been cut away to a leve with the cornea. It is because one or more cells ot tlie vitreous humour, constituting the transparent ve- sicle, are succeeded after their removal by other cells of the same humour, whicli glide between the lips of the wound or ulcer of the cornea into the same situation. The treatment consists in removing the trans- parent vesicle projecting from the wound or ulcer by means of a pair of curved scissors, and bringing the edges of the wound of the cornea immediately afterwards into perfect apposition, in order that they may unite together as exactly as possible. But, when there is an ulcer, as soon as the vesicle is removed, the sore must be touched with the nitrate of silver, so that the eschar may resist any new prolapsus. If, in some particular cases, the vesicle should not project sufficiently from the wound or ulcer to be included in the scissors, the same object may be accomplished by puncturing the tumour with a lancet or couching needle; for when the limpid fluid which it contains is discharged, the mem- brane forming it shrinks within the edges of the wound or ulcer, and no longer hinders the union of the former or the cicatrisation of the latter. Scarpa saw a prolapsus of the choroid coat, two lines from the union of the cornea with the sclero- tica, in the inferior hemisphere of the eye. It was preceded by a small abscess, the consequence of severe ophthalmy. The treatment consisted in applying the nitrate of silver severaltimes to the the projecting part, until it was reduced to a level with the bottom of the ulcer of the cornea. The part then healed. The eye remained, however, considerably weakened, and the pupil afterwards became nearly closed. C. Bader. Scarpa, sulle Principali Alalattie dejli Orchi, Vene- zia, 1802. Rickter's Anfan^s. der Wundarznevkunst, b. iii. Pellier, Obs. sur I'CEil, p. 350. C. J. Beer, Lelire von den AuKenkrankheiten, b. i. § 402, 518, and 592, and b. ii. § 58. 62, &c. 8vo. Wein, 1813 —1817. J. Warrirop, On the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. ii. p. 51, Svo. Lond. 1818. J. Vetch, Un the Dis. of the Eye, p. 53, &c. Lond. Svo. 1820. B. Travers, Synopsis of the Dis. ot the Eye, p. 116, 280, &c. Svo. 1820. AVcUcr, On I)is. of the Eye, Transl. by Dr. Monteilh, S\o. Glasgow, 1821. Frirk, On Dis. of the Eye, ed 2, by R. H e.- baiik, Svo. Lond. 1826. W. Lawrence, On Dis. of the Eye, Svo. Lond. 1833. R iViridlemore, On Dis. ot the Eye, vol. i. Svo. Lond. 1835. Wm. Mackenzie, On Dis. of the Eye, ed. 2, Svo. Lond. 1835. [Mac- kenzie: On the Dis. of the Eye; 4th edition, 1Sd4. Desmarres, Traits Thdorique et Pratique des Mala- dies des Yeux, &c. Paris, 1S55.] For a description of the manner of dividing the iris, in order to make an artificial pupil, when the natural one is closed, refer to Pupil, Closure of. lais ; effects of certain narcotics upon (he. See Atropia, Belladonna, and Cataiiact. IRITIS. See Iri.s, Inflammation op. ISSUE. See Seton. JAW-BONES, REMOVAL OF. See Bones, E.XCl.SION OF. JOINTS, DISEASES OF.—The joints are subject to numerous diseases, which are more or less serious according to their particular nature. Like all other parts, ihey are liable to inflamma- tion and abscesses; their capsules frequently become distended with an aqueous secretion, and the disease termed hydrops artiadi is produced ; but the most important of all their morbid aff'ections are the cases which, a few years ago, were indis- criminately called while sirellinff, scrofulous jotnts, and the disease of the kip-joint. Here, as Sir Ben- jamin Brodie remarks, the same name has been frequently applied to diti'ereut diseases, and the