PORRIGO. 474 may often be removed by torsion or tlie scissors. The after-treatment consists in rest, generous diet, and tonics. If there is bleeding, a pledget of lint steeped in perchloride of iron can be applied to the seat of the stump through a speculum. The ul- cerations caused in the mucous membrane of the cervix and vagina by the chafing of the tumor will often heal now the cause is removed. If not, occasional touching with nitrate of silver will be required. Gooch very properly insists that we should not be deterred from dealing with polypoid tumors under the doubt that they may be malig- nant. If cancerous growths assume the common mushroom form, admitting of being embraced by a ligature, even in part, he has found it good prac- tice to remove them. The haemorrhages are checked, and at least a respite is gained. The accuracy of this has been lately confirmed by many practitioners. It is a practical question of great moment'at what time a polypus complicating pregnancy should be removed. If discovered during pregnancy, and of such form and position as to be likely to obstruct labour, it should be removed at once. There is danger lest the tumor be crushed or bruised during labour, and lead to injurious dragging of the parts to which it is attached. If discovered during labour, the same rule will apply ; but sometimes the polypus has been locked up in the uterus behind the child, and is only detected when the child is born. In one case (Bach) the placenta was found to grow on the tumor. Any foreign body in the uterus must prevent perfect contraction and involu- tion ; it will thus keep up an undue attraction ol blood to the organ. A polypus is a source of serious danger by causing immediate and recurrent flood ings. The case of Mr. Crisp is full of warn- ing. The danger of leaving a polypus in the womb is probably greater than that of removing it at once. And removal can be efi^ected with unusual facility when labour has expanded the uterus and vagina. The wire-rope should be preferred.] Robert Barnes, Levret, Sur les Polypes, 1749. Herbiniaux, Sur les Polypes de la Matrice, liruxelles, 1794. Malgaigne, Des Polypes Uti^rins, 1832. \Sivipson, The Detection and Treatment of Intri-nterins Polypi, Ed. Med. Journ. 1850. Gensoul, Lyon, 1851. Dr. Barnes, On Uterine Polypus, 1854. Dr. West, Diseases ot Women, 1856. ^rWur/'an-e, Todd's Cyclopaedia of Anat. Dr. McClintock, Clin. Memoirs on Diseases of Women, 1863. Marion Sims, Clinical Notes on Uterine Sur gery, 1866. Other references will be seen m the text, of the article.] PORRIGO, TINEA CAPITIS, Sealled lead. S[c. A disease of the scalp. (See Skin, diseases of.) POTASSA CUM CALCE. A powerful cans tic, used for making issues, and for the destruction of fungous growths, the hard callous edges of certain ulcers, &c. It is also sometimes used, though not so often as it was formerl}', for opening buboes and other abscesses. Some are in the habit of making it into a paste with soft soap ; they cover the part aifected with adhesive plaster, in which there is a hole of the size of the eschar intended to be made ; and into this aperture they press the paste till it touches the skin. A pledget and bandage are then applied to secure the caustic substance in its situation, till the intended effect is produced. Potassa cum calce is made by mixing equal parts of caustic potash with lime. It should be kept in a well-stoppered vessel, and when used should be made into a paste with rectified spirit. The caustic called Vienna paste is composed of five parts ofpotash'to six parts of lime. POTASSA FUSA. Caustic Potash. Besides being employed in the same cases as the potassa cum calce, it was recommended to be used in a particular manner by Mr. Whateley, for the cure of strictures in the urethra. It is also prescribed for internal use in the form of liquor potassre in cases of stone, gonorrhoea, scrofula, and various diseases in which an alkaline treatment is in- dicated. POTASSII SUliPHURETUM. SuJphuret of Potassium, Liver of Sulphur. Two drams, dis- solved in a pint of lime or distilled water, make an excellent lotion for the cure of porrigo. Manj- other cutaneous affections yield also to the same remedy. It is often employed in the form of a bath, 5ij. to Jiv. being dissolved in about 30 gallons of water for this purpose. Sulphurated baths are specially useful in scabies. PREGNANCY is set down bj' some writers as preventive of the union of broken bones; but many exceptions to the remark present themselves in practice: I attended a female, six months gone with child, who broke both bones of her leg, j'et they grew together again in the usual time. (See FnACTURES.) Pregnant women frequently bear operations much better than might be expected. Thus M. Nicod has recorded an instance of suc- cessful amputation of the left leg during pregnane}', n a case where the right tendo Achillis was also ruptured. Both the wound and the broken ten- don united very well. (See Annuaire Med. Chir. des Hopitaux de Paris, p. .509, 4to. Paris, 1819.) However, though a severe accidental injury may justify an operation in pregnane}', I consider the removal of a diseased joint, breast, or other import- ant part, quite unjustifiable in this state of the constitution. [The surgical relations of pregnancy that call for special attention are: 1. The diagnosis of pregnancy, which it is necessary to be able to establish in order to avoid performing any operation upon the gravid womb under the belief that some abnormal growth or effusion is present, and in order to de- termine whether or not pregnancy is complicated with any abnormal growth or effusion. 2. The modifications wrotcgU in the system by pregnancy, and the influence of this state upon the course of surgical diseases, and upon repair after operations. it v/ould be out of place to describe minutely the signs of normal uncomplicated pregnancy. It is very true that the gravid womb has been tapped in mistake for dropsy. It may be thought culpa- ble to fall into such an error. But to overlook the existence of pre!>nancy under certain abnormal con- ditions, and especially when it is complicated with effusion into the peritoneum, as in ascites, or with pelvic or abdominal tumors, as in cystic disease of the ovary, is an error to avoid which demands the greatest skill and circumspection. And these are the cases in which pregnancy presents its most frequent relations to surgical practice. In making out the diagnosis of pregnancy, no reliance should be placed upon historical evidence, the belief of the patient herself, or upon the general or subjective symptoms. The surgeon can only proceed safely by acting upon the evidence revealed