63-2 a bistoire cache. The knife is introduced with the blade shut, and the screw so adjusted, that the blade may be opened about the sixth of an inch, but certainly not more tlian a quarter. The handle being pressed upon, the blade is opened, and being drawn out, the stricture is cut first at one point; then at a second; and again at a third. This having been completed, a larger bougie may be in- troduced than was previously applicable, and the cure is much expedited. A bougie, made of a long piece of common sponge, dipped in a concentrated solution of gum arabic, is sometimes preferred. The whole length of it is tied up with a string, the circular turns of which must be close together. After being dried, the string is taken oif, and the surface is made smooth with a knife or file. As soon as the gum arabic is dissolved by the moisture of the part into which this bougie is introduced, the sponge gra- dually regains its natural elasticity, and extends the part without pressing or irritating it, as it as- sumes the shape of the gut. (See Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. 134, p. 290.) Mr. Syme is not much in favour of dividing a stricture of the rectum with a knife; because, "in certain conditions of a constitutional and local kind, wounds of the rectum, even though of very small extent, are followed by serious, or fatal con- sequences; and as the bougie, though not so speedy in its operation as the knife, is equally effectual, and not exposed to the same objection, prudence seems to require that the practice of incision should be either entirely abandoned, or only used in par- ticular cases with extreme caution." {Syme, Op. cit. p. 120.) In London, surgeons do not find cause for the apprehension here expressed, and as the division of the kind of stricture specified by Sir Benjamin Brodie promotes the cure materially, I believe it receives general approbation. Instead of introducing the bougie daily, and al- lovving it to remain in the passage for hours, Mr. Syme employs it onlj' every third or fourth day, and withdraws it immediately it has been passed through the stricture. Bougies, composed of iron or elastic gum, appear to him the most convenient. (P. 122.) The late Dr. Bushe invented particular kinds of rectum bougies; a whalebone stalk, mounted with an ivory ball, three inches long; and also a silver instrument (see PI. VIII. Bushe on Malforma- tions, &c. of live Rectum and Anus); but a judi- cious critic expresses disapprobation of them. (See Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. ISi, p. 290.) In some cases, it is necessary previously to the use of a bougie, to lessen the irritable state of the bowel by the introduction of an opiate suppository every night, and the exhibition of a gentle aperient in the morning. When the fasces accumulate above the stricture, and distend the bowel into a large bag, attended with aggravation of the disease, Sir Benjamin Brodie recommends an elastic gum catheter to be introduced through the stricture into the feculent mass; and tepid water, or tepid soap and water, "r a weak solution of caustic filkali to be injected. By repeating this operation every day, or everj' other day, the fajces will be dissolved, and their evacuation brought about. When tliis has been accomplished, the injection of warm water should be frequently repeated, in order to prevent another aciiunulation. RECTUM, DISEASES OF. Formerly it was a common practice to apply mercurial ointment to strictures of the rectum, Morgagni followed this plan on the suppositicm of the cases being connected with syphilis. Sir Ben- jamin Brodie states his belief, that this treatment has sometimes been beneficial. The bougie is covered with lint, smeared with mercurial oint- ment, and allowed to remain in the stricture a few minutes. Other practitioners have been content with smearing the bougie itself with the ointment. From what I have seen of strictures of the rectum, I incline to the opinion expressed by Sir Benjamin Brodie, that the degree of success of the treatment will depend upon the stage of the disease in which the surgeon is consulted. If proper means be employed in good time, the stric- ture may be dilated, and, though tbe disposition to its return may yet continue, the patient may be kept from experiencing much inconvenience, and his life will not be shortened by the disease. But, in a more advanced stage of the complaint, when abscesses have formed, the symptoms will only admit of palliation. When a stoppage of urine occurs in the ad- vanced stage of the disease, Mr. Copeland advises surgeons not to use the catheter hastily. (P. 39.) And, in the event of great pain and irritation in the rectum, he has seen the greatest benefit de- rived from the local application of opium, either in a clyster, or by the introduction of one or two grains of the medicine within the anus. He also speaks favourably of the effects of the warm bath, and fomentations, in giving temporary relief; and he has exhibited in these cases the pil. extracti conii cum hydrarg. chlorido with considerable advantage. Sir Benjamin Brodie has seen some advanced cases, where much benefit was derived from the exhibition of four or five minims of liquor arseni- calis, three times a day. The effect was to lessen the discharge, diminish its irritabilit}-, improve the general health, and sometimes put an end to the rigors, to which the patient was liable. Notwithstanding the alleviation derived from bougies, Dr. Colles is confident that a perfect cure of an organic stricture of the rectum has not yet been accomplished by any plan of treatment. He has not been contented with applying the bougie, but has often made it the means of conveying various applications to the seat of disease, employ- ing for tliis purpose bougies with a deep groove running spirally their whole length, so that the ointment should not be rubbed off them by the tightness of the anus. Mercurj', arsenic, cicuta, and preparations of iron, he has not found possess any power over this disease. Large quantities of mucilage appear to him to give most relief. Blue pill, however, combined with twice its quantity of compound powder of ipecacuanha, he notices as having sometimes afforded much temporary relief. (See Dublin Hospital Reports, vol v. p. 143.) [The modern treatment of stricture of the rec- tum varies little from that above recommended by the older authorities. Gradual dilatation by means of gum elastic or metallic bougies is practised in all ordinary cases. If the bougies are conical in form they will be more easily introduced. In cases of close contraction, the treatment is greatly ac- celerated by incisions of limited extent m the manner recommended by Sir B. Brodie. Ur m preference to tiiis, forcible dictation may be em- ployed. For this purpose a convenient mstrument