MERCURY, 295 tliat saccharine subaiaiices' have tlie power of pre- venting metiiUic oxydation in certain cases. Hence it is probable, lluit if sngnr of milk or manna were substituted for the chalk, a safe, unchangeable, and efficient preparation would be obtained. A more eligible medicine fur children than mercury with chalk is a minute quantity of mercurial pili, say one or two grains, blended with any viscid sub- stance, such as mucilage of tragncanth.] The bicliloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate) was a medicine highly praised for its antisyphilitic virtues by Van Swieten; and, indeed, tiiere is no doubt that, like other preparations of mercury, it possesses such qualities. It still retains great re- putation, and, probably, will always do so. [It acts not merely as an alterative,.but also somewhat as a tonic. It is a valuable remedy in those varieties of constitutional syphilis which are complicated with ulcerations of the mucous surfaces. I had a man under my care, in St. Mary's Hospital, with a mushroom-like growth at the extremity of the penis, the size of half a chest- nut, of syphilitic origin, which completely disap- peared after a short course of the bichloride of mercury. The following case, mentioned by Boyer, and quoted by Vidal {Palholotjie Externe, 1861, torn, iii. p. 491), shows the remedial efficacy of corro- sive sublimate in constitutional S3^philis:— A postilion, respectably connected, had been troubled for two years with an outgrowth of the left maxillary sinus. The eye of that side was watery, and pushed forwards; the nose was turned to the right, and the nostril closed; the arch of the palate was somewhat bulging. The swelling was prominent upwards and outwards, and the super- incumbent skin red and shining. It appeared soon after infection, accompanied with other symptoms. It had at first increased slowly, but for a long period made no progress. It was at the outset painful, but the pain ceased as it grew. On ac- count of tlie deformity tiius produced, the patient, of his own accord, took large and repeated doses of the solution of Van Swieten, prepared by dis- solving eight grains nf sublimate in one ounce and a half of spirits of wine and fourteen-and-a-half ounces of distilled water, so that one ounce of the liquid contained half a grain of sublimate. Within three months ho had swallowed no less than 128 grains of corrosive sublinrate. The tu- mour completely disappeared, the eye resumed its natural position within the orbit, the iactirymation ceased, and the nostrils became pervious; the only vestige was a depression at the upper part of the cheek, causod by adiiesion of the skin.] "Corrosive sublimate," says Mr. Pearson, "will often check the progress of secondary symptoms very conveniently, and I think it is peculiarly efficacious in relieving venereal puins, in heiding ulcers of the throat,and in promoting the de.~quauiation of erup- tions. Yet, even in these cases, it never confers per- manent benefit; fur now symptoms will appear duiing the use of it, and on many occasions it will fail oi' alTiirding the least advantage to the patient, from first to last. I do sonietimos, indeed, employ this preparation in venereal cases; but it ia either at the beginning of a mercurial course, to bring the con-titiitiiiri uniler the influence of mercury at an early period, or during a course of imiuction, with the intention of increasing the action of simple mercury, I sometimes also prescribe it, after the conclusion of a course of frictions, to support the mercurial influence in the habit, in order to guard against the danger of a relapse. But on no occa- sion whatever do I think it safe to confide in this preparation, singly and uncombined, for the cure of any truly venereal symptom." {Pearson on Lues Venerea.) [This salt is best given in solution in water, amply diluted, ia the dose from tV to ^grain twice or thrice daily. Corrosive sublimate has been employed exter- nally as a bath, in syphilitic affections of the skin, in the proportion of half a grain to a pint of water. A solution in distilled water to the .amount of one grain to the eight or twelve ounces forms a valuable collyrium. Calomel is extensively employed for the purpose of bringing the system quickly under the influence of mercury, as in iritis, laryngitis, synovitis, and especially in peritonitis. One grain and a half, or two grains, joined with a quarter of a grain of opium, which will prevent d sturbance of the bowels, may be exhibited every two, four, or six hours, according to circumstances. It is frequently prescribed as an alterative in the dose of half a grain or a grain once or twice a day, and likewise as a purgative in doses varying from five to twenty grains. The addition of lialf a grain of calomel to four of five grains of mercurial pill is said to render the latter more prompt in its action on the system. Calomel combined, as above stated, with opium, or in the form of the compound calomel pill, is oc- casiufiaily administered for the cure of constitutional syphilis. M. Biett treated certain sj'pliilitic affec- tions of the skin by applying daily one-eighth of a grain of calomel to tiie pituitary membrane ; mixed with from thirty-two to sixty-four times its weight of lime-water it forms the black-wasli, a useful application to promote the healing of sores generally. According to MM. Me'rat and De Lens It has been resorted to for fumigation, like cinna- bar, to the extent of one or two drachms at a time, united with sugar or incense. {Dictionnaire dc Mai. Med., 18u2, tom. iv. p. 352.) In the case ot scrofulous sores of the schneiderian membrane, M. Jobert advises a powder composed of one drachm of calomel, mixed with half an ounce of gum arable, to be snuffed up from time to time within the nostril. Proiiodide, or green iodide of mercury, is extensively prescribed on the Conti- nent, in the treatment of constitutional syphilis. It may be exhibited in the form of pill, in the dose of half a grain, night and morning, pi-ngressively increased to three grains, conjoined with two or three grains of extract of coninm or hyoscyamus, or half a grain of extract of Indian hemp, in order to prevent griping, lied iodide, or biniodide, of mercury is also used in syphilitic coni|ilaint8, usually dissolved by the aid of iodide of potassium. Mr. Langston Parker recommends tlie subjoined formula :—Take ot red iodide of mercury, three grains; iodide of potassium, from one to three drachms; spirits nf wine, one drachm; syrup of ginger, three draclims; distilled water, one ounce and a half; mix together; twenty or thirty drops arc to be swallowed three times a day, in half n tumbler of some decnction of the woods. {Op. cil., p. 3lj0.) He linils this preparation agree well with the gastric conditinn ol the patient, and considers it more manageable than the green iodide. In the