1008 VISION. half of the existing hj-permetropiahad been nJusked by tlie accommodation. If the power of accommodation is strong, as in j'oung persons, and the degree of the hyperme- tropia moderate, the latter does not become mani- fest for a considerable time. Complaints of the hypermetropic patient:— The hypermetropia, if slight, is not felt, as long as the accommodation can overcome it with ease. The power of accommodation in all eyes diminishes as age advances, and the higher the degree of hypermetropia the sooner do difficulties of vision (termed asthenopia) arise. Asthenopia.—Weak sight. Impaired vision. Impaired vision for near-work. Diilness of sight. Dimness of vision. Slowly adjusting sight. Alfec- tion of the retina from excessive employment. Debilitas visus. Hebetudo visus. The two groups of muscles which, through want of power, give rise to asthenopia are the ciliary muscle and the external muscles of the eyeball. To be able to read, or to do near-work with ease, and for a prolonged time, it is necessary that the contraction of these muscles should be possible, and be kept up efficiently for the time of work. The power of contraction may be destroyed by paralysis, or may be inefficient from paresis or weakness. It may be normal, but become ex- hausted too soon through the muscles being obliged to do work under circumstances under which in the normal eye they are at rest, or, at least, are less contracted. The latter is often the case in hypermetropia. The fatigue of the ciliary muscle is accelerated by the tendency which the crystalline lens has to return, by force of its own elasticity, to the shape and curvature which it has when at rest. The continued resistance offered by the crystalline lens tends to distend the con- tracted fibres of the ciliary muscle, and thus an additional increase of contraction becomes neces- sary. The term Accommodative Asthenopia has been used by some for want of povirer of the ciliary muscle. Many symptoms which accompany asthenopia do not essentially belong to it. We shall first treat of the symptoms of true asthenopia, and then of those which wrongly have been grouped with them. True Astltenopia. (Accommodative Asthenopia.) ■—The patient complains that, when reading or engaged in other " near-work," the letters or the finer details of the work become "dim " or dis- appear suddenly, or become indistinct gradually. Alter "rubbing" the eyes, or "closing the lids " for a short time he is again able to resume the the work for some time. In high degrees of asthenopia these attacks of dimness appear fre- quently ; in slighter degrees only during work by artificial light, or after prolonged work. They appear sooner during ill-health, or during any other change which affects the contractility of muscles. Asthenopia may continue for years without dver interfering with the acuteness of vision. In high degrees of hypermetropia the rapidly appearing " dimness " prevents the occurrence of other sym- ptoms of fatigue. In a large number of ca.ses the dimness of vision is preceded liy a sensation of tension over the eyebrows, amounting sometimes to pain. The rapidity with which the Asthenopia ap- pears and its duration vary, and are connected with the nature of the work. It has been Stated that, in the usual course of liypermctropia, the age at which asthenopia appears is about equal to the denominator of the fraction which expresses the degree of hypermetropia, e.g. if the asthenopia appears about the age of ten years the hyperme- tropia is = i-\y. Asthenopia is more severe and appears sooner in those engaged in much " near- work," though in rare cases it even appears when looking at distant or at near large objects. The true form of asthenopia is observed in hypermetropia and in astigmatism. Persons suffering from true asthenopia only, are as a rule cured by spectacles with convex lenses. Much benefit is also derived from the powdered secale correntum (5 to 10 grains to be taken four times daily) with some carbonate of magnesia, or of iron. Apparetit, not true Asthenopia.—The patients complain, when reading, &c., or even when look- ing at a distance, of the eyes aching and " water- ing," of pain in the ciliary region, and sometimes at the back of the eyes. The pain may be per- manent and increase when attempting to work. In most cases, this is accompanied by a sensation of tension over the eyebrows, and in many by smarting of the eyelids, by photophobia, and occa- sionally by phosphenes. The symptoms may in-, crease to an extent that even going about in bright light becomes impossible. Dimness of vision may accompany these sym- ptoms, but it is the pain, &c. which compel the patients to desist from work often for months. Apparent asthenopia occurs often in myopia, and occasionally in hyperaemia of the optic disc and retina. It is termed hypersesthesia of the retina if no organic changes are discoverable. The asthenopia arising from weakness ("insuffi- ciency ") of the internal recti muscles, by some termed muscular asthenopia, is often met with together with accommodative asthenopia. Some- times it is mistaken for it. Treatment.—Asthenopia, whether true or appa- rent, is a symptom which as a rule subsides imder proper treatment of its cau.-e. (See the Treat- ment of Hypermetropia, Astigmatism, Myopia, Insufficiency, Paresis). Vision ofhypermetrops.—In the slighter degrees of hypermetropia, vision is generally acute, and difficulties arise not from any anomaly of the retina but from exhaustion of the accomruodation The usual complaint is, that very small type can- not be read, that large type can be seen with greater ease when held further from the eyes, and that after having been reading or working for some time, the letters or work become confused or disappear altogether. After rubbing the eyes, or closing them for a short time, work can be con- tinued. These symptoms are those of asthenopia. In high degrees (of-J, and more) the acute- ness of vision is rarely perfect, and asthenopia appears sooner. The cause of this in some is astigmatism, in others it nuist be attributed to congenital anomalies of the letina or optic nerve. Occasionally we meet witli hypermetropia m which the optic disc and retina, as far as ophthalmoscopic appearances go, are quite healthy, and yet vision is reduced to perception of shadows, or only — "^"'rhe acuteness of vision may still be called per- fect, if with the assistance of convex glasses it can be made to reach that of the normal eye ; e.g. it