156 JOINTS, E? :CISTON OF. months after resection, in a style far superior to that which an unfortunate might display with an artificial limb. My impression is, that as we learn more of the after treatment of these cases, the result will be even more satisfactory than that already achieved." (See Practical Surgery, ed. 4, pp. 456 and 457.) We cannot enter into the details of any of the numerous cases which have been published, but would refer the reader to the two memoirs on this operation in the knee, by Mr. Butcher, which are full of useful and sound information, accompanied with excellent rules for general guidance in the after treatment; and also to Mr. P. C. Price's memoir on the same subject, and to his prize essay, at present in manuscript in the library of the Royal College of Surgeons, which aflFords the latest and fullest information. The Lancet also, since 1850, abounds with the reports of cases of this highly important conservative operation. Within the last three or four years, surgeons have somewhat modified their opinion in reference to the success attendant on excision of the large joints, more particularly the knee. This has re- sulted, not from the mortality after the operation, but the subsequent demand for amputation of useless limbs. Very recently, in one hospital in the metropolis, there were as many as five cases of excised knee joints, which were mostly sub- mitted to amputation, wherein the former proce- dure was not found to have been permanently beneficial. We will, therefore, add the following remarks from Mr. T. Holmes' article : " The process of recovery is usually a slow one. In Dr. Hodges's tables, alreadj' referred to, the duration of the treatment in 48 cases, in which the patella was removed, is stated to have been 225 days ; and in 38 cases, in which that bone is believed to have been left, 255 days ; or, roughly speaking, the average duration of treatment was about eight months ; and, in many of the cases which afterwards turn out the most successful, sinuses remain open, and the limb is in a state which cannot but cause anxiety for many months after formal treatment is discontinued. In some exceptional cases, indeed, matters go on much more rapidly than this, and the recovery is com- pleted as soon as (indeed, it may be that one or two have recovered sooner than) after amputation ; but, as a general rule, the time required for re- covery after excision may be taken at about four times as long as after amputation. In fact, I think we are taking a view very favourable to ex- cision, if we say, that every month after the opera- tion advances the cure only as far as a week would after amputation.''—^^/stoa of Surgery, vol. 3. p. 823.] [Eixcision of llie ylnHe.—The ankle joint was first excised by the elder Moreau in 1782, and it has been practised by Jaeger, Mulder, Kerst, and other continental surgeons. Mr. Hancock has the merit of having first performed the operation m this country in 1851. The patient was a boy eight years of age, with strumous disease of the ankle- joint of several months' standing, followed by sup- puration. The superior half of the astragalus and the lower end of the tibia were sawn away, with- out any injury to the vessels and nerves. (See the Lancet, vol. i. 1851, p. 356.) The results were perfectly satisfactory, three years afterwards the boy was shown to the Medical Society of London, when he Avalked remarkably well, with scarcely any halting, and possessed considerable motion in the joint. In a second instance Mr. Hancock excised the ankle of a young woman, aged 22, for strumous disease of the articulation. The case promised most favourably, but on the fourth day sloughing ensued, and the ultimate result was not favourable. (The Lancet, vol. ii. 1855, p. 578.) A third opera- tion by the same surgeon, was performed in a young man, aged 25, for chronic disease of the ankle joint, with complete success. The wound in front of the joint healed by first intention in about a week, over the inside of the ankle it was healed in about two months, and in four months the entire wound was healed. The patient had free movement of his toes, and considerable motion in the joint. (The Lancet, vol. i. 1858, p. 36.) A fourth case, with equally satisfactory results, occurred to Mr. Hancock in a little boy, aged 6 years. After removing the upper portion of the astragalus which was carious, he found the disease extended through and beneath this bone, involving the os calcis to a considerable extent. The convex tibial articular surface, and the whole of the body of the astralagus, behind the interosseous calcaneo-astra- galoid ligament, were removed, as well as the remains of the corresponding articular surface on the upper part of the os calcis; whilst the interior of that bone, behind the interosseous notch, was carefully gouged out before the disease could be got rid of, so that little more than the shell of bone remained in that situation ; no arteries were tied. The boy suffered very little constitutional distur- bance. In five months, the wound was entirely healed, he could stand upon his foot and walk without pain. His cure was a rapid and a perfect one. (See the Lancet, vol. ii. 1859, p. 332.) Thus, out of four cases, but one proved fatal, the patient dying some six months after operation, from disease of the lungs, the result of a dissipated life. " In no instance," Mr. Hancock remarks, "has there been sloughing; there need not be a single tendon or artery divided; there is afterwards very little, if any, deformity—comparatively little shortening; the foot is preserved, and, as you will see by the cases related, the patients are able to walk and run about with scarcely any perceptible limp." This gentleman further observes : " Why, in this age of conservative surgery and joint resec- tion, the solitary exception should be made in the case of the ankle-joint, and so useful a member as the foot needlessly sacrificed, is an anomaly which I confess I do not understand. We have seen that, in Syme's operation, independently of the entire loss of the foot, there is danger of sloughing or bagging of matter; and in both Syme's and- Pirogoff"s operations, intlammation, sloughing, and suppuration in the course of the divided tendons. In excision of the ankle-joint these dangers do not exist." (See Remarks on Resection of the Ankle- joint, the Lancet, vol. ii. 1859, p. 331.) We would remark that there is probably more risk of injury to the vessels and nerves in excision of the ankle than in any other joint, from their proceeding both anteriorly and posteriorly from the leg to the foot. Upon the integrity of these depends the success of the operation. Mr. Fergusson has performed excision of the