as if to compensate for the loss of strength at the affected spot (Path. Soc. Trans, vol. x.) ; and some specimens show that, whilst the pressure of the morbid growth has been causing absorption of the osseous texture, formation of new bone has, at the same time, been taking place on and about the tumor. This very fatal disease is met with mostly in persons who have not attained to middle age ; it often commences with a dull aching, or a ieeling of fatigue, in the affected limb, and pains of a rheu- matismal character along the course of the bone, ■which are increased by exercise, and are generally worse at night—in this resembling syphilis—with an occasional darting, shooting sensation. As time wears on, difficulty is experienced in performing the various movements of the limb, and a firm hard swelling can be felt over the bone ; the tissues covering it are at first free and movable, but, as the tumor increases in size, they are incorporated with it. The skin, however, retains its mobility for a long time, gradually becoming thin and tense, but is not changed in colour until disorganization threatens from pressure ; the superficial veins are enlarged, tortuous, and congested ; oedema of the limb below the affected part comes on, and often effusion into the joint. The pain in the tumor is now constant, of a stabbing, throbbing character, and is more severe at night ; pressure, unless deep seated, does not much increase it, although the skin covering the tumor may be extremely sensitive, and neuralgic •pains of parts farther removed are sometime.s caused by implication of the nerves. When first felt, the growth is hard and often irregular on the surface, but as it enlarges the swelling becomes more uniform and softer, yielding to the touch, whilst a sense of fluctuation, more or less distinct, may not unfrequently be detected ; if punctured with a grooved needle or a fine trocar, a bloody fluid is withdrawn, in which may be seen, under the micro- scope, the nucleated cells characteristic of cancer ; occasionally the tumor will contain cysts filled with a serous or gelatinous fluid, more or less stained by blood extravasated into it. As the disease advances,the health of the patient gradually fails, and hectic sets in, firom which he speedily succumbs ; or, more rarely, the skin over the tumor may give way, leaving a large fungoid mass exposed, from which fatal hfemorrhage takes place. The several preparations of opium, or morphia, must be freely administered to relieve the pain in these most distressing cases, together with stimu- lantsand anutritious dietary, but no treatment is of the slightest use except amputation. The whole of the affected bone should, if possible, be removed, and, if it be one of the extremities which is in- volved, amputation at the joint immediately above the seat of the disease should be performed. When cancer commences in the interior of a bone, it usually extends along the medullary canal for a considerable distance above and below the tumor, thus forming a plug of malignant deposit, which can only be got rid of, with certainty, by ablation of the whole bone. In the large majority of cases, however, the disease recurs in some internal organ, and proves fatal, even after recovery from the operation ; in St. Mary's Hospital, within the last three years, two cases of soft cancer of the femur have been submitted to amputation at the hip joint, and although the operation was in both DTOMY. 407 instances successful, the patients died within a few months from the same disease in other parts.] Mr. Stanley states that medullary cancer is less likely to return when situated in the bones, and amputated, than when placed in any other texture, or organ. Yet few experienced surgeons will now venture to excise the upper or lower jaw bone for medullary tumors, known beforehand to be of this nature, when the disease is far advanced. Boyer records two cases of osteosarcoma: one of the thigh ; the other, of the oseinnominatura. The first patient was saved by amputation. And Dr. M'Clellan, of Philadelphia, a few years ago favoured me with the particulars of another case of osteosarcoma of the lower jaw, where the same operation was very skilfully executed. Dr. David L. Rogers, of New York, was among the first in the United States who removed the upper jaw-bone, which he did in a case of osteosarcoma in 1824. This is recorded in the Neiu York Med. and Phys. Journ. vol. iii. p. 301. The operation has since been frequently performed in America and Europe. Dr. Mott has performed it thirteen times. (See Bones and Jaw.) The same distinguished operator has removed portions of the lower jaw six times, and twice taken out the bone at the articulation. These operations have since been so frequently performed, that it would be superfluous to name every one of the operators. ((?. G. Gascot/en.) See Boyer, Traits des Maladies Chir. t. iii. Bailer's Element. Physiol, t. viii. p. 2. 5. 5. A. Kuimus, Diss, de Exostosi Steatomatode Clavicula;; Gedan. 1732. S. F. Htindertmark, Diss, sistens (Jsieosteato- matis Casum rariorem; Lips. 1752. iS. G. Hermann, Diss, de Osteosteatomate, Lips. 1767. <S. C. Plcnck, de Osteosarcosi j Tub. 1781, &c. Sir B. Brodie, in fa- thol. and Surg. Obs. on the Joints, p. 301. Dr. Cumin, in Edinb. Med. Journ. Jan. 1825. Ph. Crampton, in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. 8vo. 1827. B. Bell on Dis. of the Bones, 12mo. Edinb. 1828. Herbert Mayo. Outlines of Human Patboloay. p. 56, Svo. Lond. 1835. [L. Beister, Institutiones Cliirur- Kicee, 1739. J. L. Petit, Traits des Maladies des Os, 1741. fwDcrji^i/jTraittf.des Mai. des Os, 1751. Peck, Osteosarcoma, ejusque speciei insignis descriptio; Wurzbuier, 1819. J. CloqiMi, Dict.de M^d. 1826. L. J. Higin, Diet, de M^d. et de Chir. pratiques, 1834. Nilaton, El^inens de Pathologic Chirurgicale, vol. ii. 1847. Stanley, Treatise on Dis. of the Bones, 1849. Rokitansky, Manual of Path. Anat. vol. iii. Syd. Soc. 1850. Libert, Trait^ pratique des Maladies Can- c^reuses, 1851. Paget, l,eci. on Surg. Path. vol. ii. 1853. Gerdy, Mai. des Organesdu Mouvement, 1855 j Path Soc. Trans.] [OVARIOTOMY. (From iiApiov, ovary; and rofiii, incision). [Syn. Ovariotomie, Fr. and Ger.— Ovariotomia, Ital, and Sp.] Definition.—The operation for the removal of one or both ovaries. As it is only performed by surgeons when one or both ovaries are diseased it ia a verj^ different proceeding from the extirpation of healthy ovaries, which has been practised from remote antiquity to the present time on domestic animals for eco- nomical purposes, and both in ancient periods and in the middle ages on women, almost exclusively for immoral purposes. Galen, in his work De Semine, records that in Eastern Asia and in Cappadocia sows were spayed in order to fatten them, and to improve^Stho flavour of their meat. He also points out the greater difficulty and danger of this operation than the castration of male animals : " Non turn ita tutum in fceminis testium extractio cadministrari potest, ob sedem in quil collocati sunt; mnjnsque in hoc quam in maribus pcriculum est."