vitiated fluids which have entered the circulation, anil it is not a little remarkable that the mucous nienibiane, and none of the other coats of tlie intestines, should be affected in these cases. The appearances produced may be distinguished from tlie results of common inflammation, in that no thickening or shrinking of the tissues is produced, but thoy are swollen, congested, and bh)od-stained, either in petechial spots, in larger patches, or over a continuous surface. The discharge from the intestines in such cases consists chiefly of mucus, but this may sometimes be accompanied by a kind of passive hfemorrhage, and occasionally the secre- tion may assume a puriforra character, without any abrasion of the mucous lining of the canal. It may now readily be understood that the appearances and symptoms, which a few years ago were so often observed and described as forming a separate disease, under the name oigastvo-enteriiis, may frequently have been only secondary results produced by an unhealthy condition of the blood. When the actions produced by the introduction of putrid fluids into the body are fully developed, all the indications of putrefaction may take place, even in the living body. Not only the fluids, but the so-called solids pass rapidly into decomposition, and the former would appear, in addition to being extremely liable to decompose themselves, to have the property of infecting other parts, and even other healthy bodies. Thus we read, that during the plague of Marseilles, the bile taken from those who had died of the disease, uniformly produced death when injected into the veins of dogs. After a putrid element has been introduced into the system the blood is evidently altered in composition. It becomes black, viscid, and in a great measure deprived of its coagulating povver. After death it is found fluid, of a very dark colour, and not unfrequently mixed with gas. Tlie long-continued congestion of the mucous membrane, as of other parts, has a tendency to terminate in the softening of the tissues involved. This is the case whether the congestion is of healthy or diseased blood, but the tendency is much more marked, and occurs much more rapidly, in the latter case than in the former. The con- gestion of comparatively healthy blood in the legs of old people, affords a common instance of conse- quent softening and breaking down oP the tissues. A molecular necrosis occurs unattended with any great amount of inflammation. In the treatment of affections arising from the presr^nce of a septic poison in the system, it is iniiiortant to remember that the alimentary secre- tious afford a natural method of relief. Tlie determination of this class of poisons is evidently ti) the mucous membrane of the intestines, and every facility should be given for its elimination in that vvaj-. In cases where the blood is more or less decom- posed in the living vessels, it sometimes, as has be(ui shown, does not coagulate at all, or any coaguhmi that may have formed becomes rapidly dissolved. In the latter case the coloin-ing matter of the blood will stain any part with which it may lie in contact, and leave an appearance on the lining membrane of the blood-vessels which has often been mistaken for inflammation. The pos/-Hio/7e/». appearances in the more solid structures of the body, in those who die in conse- MIA. ,501 quenco of the introduction of vitiated fluids into the blood, often cannot be distinguished from similar changes produced by other causes, yet tiiero are some effects which are peculiar,and may be directly associated with the reception of foreign matter into the circulation. The most character- istic circumstance, attending the extension of dis- ease to different organs of the body, through the medium of the blood, is that several parts of these organs, or even different organs, will be simul- taneously attacked. The disease will appear at once, in various spots, which will become rapidly disorganised, while the surrounding textures will remain unaltered, either in structure or colour. The appearances observed upon dissection will vary according to the part attacked, and the stage of development in which the disease is found. The lunc/s are tlie organs in which the successive changes may best be observed. The morbid pro- cesses affecting these organs are, perhaps, the most important and interesting, not only on account, of their frequency and gravity, but because we can trace in them the type and pattern of those dis- eased conditions elsewhere seated. When por- tions of a disintegrating or decomposing blood-clot, or when puriform fluid has entered the circulation, the first appearance produced in the structure of the lungs, is that of one or more congested or dilated veins of very small diameter. If these be hiid open, minute clots will be commonly found in their interior. This will be followed by a well- defined spot, of much darker colour than the surrounding texture. Several of these spots will probablj^ appear at the same time, and each one of them will soon become surrounded by a spherical patch of purple congestion. Effusion of lymph will now take place, commencing in the centre of each affected portion, and gradually extending towards its circumference. If the disease con- tinue, each spot will suppurate, and the' different parts will become softened and broken down, in the same order in which they were previously solidified. The morbid changes in the lungs will conform to one or other of the following descriptions :— In the slightest degree of the affection, as we view the surface of the organ through the pleura, particularlj' about the edges of the lobes, it is found to be variously mottled and blood-stained. Numerous spots of congestion, blotches, or pur- puric-looking dottings are discovered, forming .separate foci, as it were, of disease. These ap- pear dark and well-defined at the centre, with a congested-looking periphery, which passes into tho healthy textures by a gradual diminution of the depth of colour. On cutting into these parts, the quantity of air is found to be diminished : a sero- sanguinolent fluid exudes, and we may perhaps discover the blood coagulated in one ormoretwiga of the pulmonary vessels. In another and more advanced stage, these dis- tinct centres of diseased action have become the seats of effused products, so that different lobules of the organ are hepatised, and no longer crepi- tate on pressure. There will generally be a soften- ing or abscess in the central part of these lobules, where the action has first connnenced, and where the effused products are remotely placed for vascular supply. In this last variety tflie organ liecomes the seat of nuiltiple abscesses, like small vomicic, and with or without surrounding induration,