:RICTURE of, 82S URETHRA, S": tained 320 strictures. All these may be arranged in the three following classes:— I. Strictures occurring at the Svh-piihic Ciirvctr lure.—The latter term being understood to comprise an inch of tlie canal before, and three-quarters of an inch behind, that point, thus including the whole of the membranous portion. 215 were situated in this region, or sixty-seven per cent, of the entire number. The precise part which is most frequently affected with stricture is the bulbous portion. The liability to stricture appears to di- minish as it.approaches the junction of the spongy and membranous portions; while behind it is very rare. Very rarely is a stricture found so far back as the membranous portion. II. Strictures occupying the Centre of the Spongy Portion, i.e. a region extending from the anterior limit of the preceding to within two inches and a half of the external meatus, and measuring there- fore about two inches and a half to three inches in length. Fifty-one were situated in this region, or sixteen per cent, of the entire number. III. Strictures occurring at the External Orifice, and ivithin a distance of two incites and a half of it. —Fifty-four were situated in this region, or seven- teen per cent, of the entire number. It should be added that there is not a single case of stricture in the prostatic portion of the urethra to be found in any one of the public Mu- seums of London, Edinburgh, or Paris. I am disposed to believe that some observers have been deceived in reference to it, or that it owes its sup- posed existence to inferences drawn from the results of examinations of the living body, which can by no means be admitted as evidence on this subject. One of the earliest symptoms of stricture usually noticed is a little gleety discharge, almost con- stantly present. Some pain is felt in the urethra, or smarting when the urine is passed. The con- tents of the bladder are emptied at shorter intervals than has been natural. The stream is altered in form, not having the full rounded character of health, but more or less flattened; it may be twisted, spirting, forked, or even divided, which conditions are caused by the current of water being insufficient in size and force to dilate and extend the lips of the meatus externus. At the same time, it must not be concluded that the existence of such a stream is by any means, per se, a proof that stricture exists, since many persons, from a tumid condition of the meatus alone, habitually pass such an one. Then gradually, as contraction increases, or as fresh obstacles occur in other parts of the urethra, it grows smaller, and in time the urine may issue only by drops. Meantime, although the force by which it is propelled, viz. the contractile power of the bladder, is augmented, there is little momen- tum in the current which leaves the meatus, and the urine cannot be projected to any distance. Generally speaking, the act of micturition is always prolonged to an extent corresponding with the degree of obstruction present. One of the most distressing symptoms from which the patient suffers is the constant desire to m;ike water, which is almost invariably present in severe cases. Thus the sleep is broken, or almost destroyed, some patients being compelled to rise from bed ten or twelve times in the course of the night, while, in the worst cases, or during tem- porary exacerbations of the complaint, a great portion of the time is spent in laborious and un- availing efforts, by change of posture or by strain- ing, to obtain some relief. Co-existent with these conditions there will be a sense of heat, soreness, or smarting experienced about the bladder, espe- cially at its neck, aggravated by an excess of acid in the urine, by cold, or imprudence of any kind telling on the parts. Patients often experience much pain above and behind the pubes, a symptom generally significant of some degree of chronic in- flammation affecting the mucous membrane of the bladder. Sometimes a dull aching pain in the perineum, or in the back and loins, is experienced; sometimes severe and darting pains in one or both testicles, extending to the spermatic cord, into the groins, or along the penis. Pain is often ex- perienced in coition; and if the contraction be con- siderable, the semen passes backwards, in part or entirely, into the bladder, from which it is dis- charged afterwards, so that the power of fecun- dating may be lost from the mechanical obstacle to the act of ejaculation; or the erection may be rendered imperfect by effused lymph into the cells of the corpus spongiosum preventing the free circulation of blood through it. Difficult mictu- rition also often occasions protrusion of the mu- cous membrane through the external sphincter, heat, irritation, and inflammatory thickening; so that prolapsus of the mucous membrane of the rectum is by no means an unfrequent consequence of a long-continued or tight stricture of the ure- thra. Some patients rarely attempt to pass water without visiting the water-closet, from their in- ability to prevent the escape of the contents of the rectum, through the efforts required for that pur- pose. Even hernia of the intestine have sometimes occurred from the muscular exertions made use of to effect micturition. Sometimes the first indication of the presence of stricture is the occurrence of complete retention of urine. The contraction has previously been in- sufficient to call the patient's attention to it; but either by exposure to cold, or after some unusual irregularity, or by too free indulgence, either in the use of alcoholic drinks, in sexual intercourse, or in both together, on the attempt to comply with an urgent desire to empty the bladder, which may have become rapidly full from the action of stimulus on the kidneys, the individual is astonished and alarmed to find himself unable to evacuate mors than a few drops. In a few instances the most prominent symptom throughout is retention. There may be but little irritability of bladder, and the stream of urine when passed, is not necessarily very small ; a No. 6 or 7 catheter may pass through the urethra; but the patient is very liable to retention, and finds no relief but from catheterism; attempts at dilatation are always followed by inability, more or less prolonged, to pass water, until an instrument of very large size has been reached. Closely related to this condition is another, accompanying some forms of the disease, chiefly those of long standing, the prominent symptom of which is a tendency to rapid recontraction of the stricture after dilatation. It may be very amen- able to this treatment, instruments of medium or even of full size may be introduced, sometimes in two or three sittings, but alter a few days of cessation from treatment, the narrowing is as com- ' plete as ever, and a small instrument only can be passed. The symptoms are often severe, and find