EASES OF, 57G SKIN, DIS] of greater or less severity. The bullae of Pemphi- gus and Pompholj'x are sometimes solitary and sometimes developed in clusters; both are chronic affections, and so closely allied, as to be regarded by dermopathologists as the same disease, differing only in degree of chronicity, pemphigus being some- what more general in its attack than porapholyx, and accompanied with more heat and redness; and pompholyx being remarkable for the absence of heat and redness, for a larger development of bulla, and for its more solitary character. 5. PusiulcB. A pustule is an elevation of the cuticle, otherwise, a vesicle distended with pus; it is commonly hemispheroidal, but is sometimes conoidal, and is developed on a more or less in- flamed base, which forms a halo around its circum- ference. It varies in size from a mere point to one or two lines in diameter. Several kinds of pus- tules are distinguished by authors, for example:— Phlyzacium, a large pustule with a hard and in- flamed base; Psydracium, a small pustule occurring in clusters, frequently confluent; the psydracium at first contains lymph, which gradually becomes purulent. Achor,* a small pustule developed on the scalp, around the mouth of the hair-follicle ; and Favus, a deep pustule, also developed around the mouth of a hair-follicle. The diseases included by Willan, in the order PusiulcB, are—Impetigo, Ecthyma, Porrigo, Variola, and Scabies. Impetigo is a rash of small psydracious pustules, unattended with a deep or severe inflammation of the skin; it may be regarded as a purulent eczema, and is commonly associated with the latter eruption. Ecthyma is an eruption of phlyzacious pustules; they are generally solitary, and scantily dispersed over the affected region. Porrigo is used by "Willan as the generic appellation of all pustular affections of the scalp, whether of the nature of Achores or Favi; but, according to its original and proper signification, it should be applied only to a state of Bcurfiness of the skin, and especially to pityriasis and chronic eczema. Variola is the pus- tule of smallpox. And Scabies, the large, super- ficial and well-defined pustule which is met with in the purulent variety of itch. 6. SquamcE. A scale is " a lamina of morbid cuticle, hard, thickened, whitish, and opaque. Scales, when they increase into irregular layers, are denominated cntsts.'" Such is the definition of the morbid appearance of the skin, which in- cludes Lepra vulgaris (Alphos),Psoriasis, Pityriasis, and Ichthyosis. In Lepra vulgaris or Alphos the scales are laminated, whitish, and silvery, of mode- rate thickness, and either isolated or confluent. When isolated, they are circular, free around the edges, and vary in size from the eighth of an inch to one or two inches in diameter, often resembling wafers adherent to the skin. When confluent, the scales are more apt to assume the character of crusts, and are of unlimited extent, sometimes embracing the convexity of a joint, such as the elbow or knee, and sometimes an entire limb. The slight degree of redness which occupies the base of the patches of lepra vulgaris is due to a specific inflammation, and the inflamed base is somewhat elevated. Psoriasis (eczema squamosum) is distiu- * The term aclior signifies scurf, beinp derived from achuron, chcfT or bran; and is therefore np- plicnble more correctly to the desiccated and dcsqnn- mating product of the pustule than to the pustule itself. guished by small, thin, and irregular scales, deve- loped on patches of skin thickened by common chronic inflammation, the sequel of chronic lichen or chronic eczema. Patches of psoriasis have no regularity of figure; they are often of considerable extent, and are frequently accompanied with cracks and excoriations. Pityriasis is an erythema of a slight and superficial degree, accompanied with thin and very minute scales, which have been com- pared to bran, furfures; there is no thickening of the skin as in lepra vulgaris (alphos) and psoriasis, and no cracking or excoriation, as in psoriasis. Its common seat is the face and scalp, and in the latter situation, it is commonly called dandriff or dandruff. Ichthyosis is the result of a congenital malforma- tion of the epidermis, the scales not being the product of an inflamed skin, but of an ill-developed and ill-nourished skin. The cutaneous surface is hard, dry, rough, and discoloured; and the scales present considerable variety of thickness and form; being, in some parts, thin laminae of shining cuticle; in others, variously shaped crusts; in an- other place dry, crumbling granules; and, again, elongated and rigid spines, 7. Tubcrcula. A tubercle is "a hard, super- ficial tumor, circumscribed and permanent, or pro- ceeding very slowly to suppuration.'' This order embraces a considerable number of very dissimilar affections, having, as a sole uniting link, the above comprehensive definition. For example : Phyma, Acne, Sycosis, Molluscum, Lupus, Vitiligo, Elephan- tiasis, Framboesia, and Verruca. Pliyma is a sup- purating tumor or cutaneous abscess, and the term has been applied generically to the group of fu- runcular affections: for example, furunculus, ter- minthus, hordeolum, and anthrax. Acne is the small papular tubercle which is so frequent on the forehead, face, and back of j'oung persons, and sometimes met with in the adult. Sycosis is a pustular affection attacking the hair-follicles of the beard and whiskers, sometimes simply pustular, and sometimes tubercular. Molluscum is a small, prominent tumor, sometimes pedunculated, arising from hypertrophy of a sebiparous gland, and occur- ring upon the face or neck, and sometimes on the eyelids of children. The terra is also used in a wider signification, so as to include all simple teguuientary growths, of a pouch-like form, soft to the touch, and innocent in their nature. Lupus is a tubercle arising from a specific disorganisation of the skin and terminating either in absorption or ulceration. Its common seat is the cheek, tiie nose, the scalp, and the back of the hand. The term Vitiligo is applied, very correctly, by Willan and Bateman, to a pathological form of disease that appears to correspond with the leuce of Celsus. Elephantiasis, the lepra of the Greeks, is a specific disease, remarkable for the development of tubercles of a deep red or bronze colour, on the forehead, along the eyebrows, on the nose and cheeks, and on other parts of the body. Fram- bcesia is an eruption of tubercles, resembling a raspberry in figure, epidemic among the negroes both in Africa and in the West Indies; while Ver- ruca is the cuticiilar growth which is popularly termed a wart. 8. Maadw. Macula, a mark, or stain, or spot, is a " permanent discoloration of some portion of tile skin, often with a change of its texture; and the examples of macula, are:—Ephelis, Spilus. and Nxvus. Ephelis includes all discolorations of th(5