LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OF, 186 and a seton in the last named region The actual cautery too has been has been found useful. —^ ._- — employed to fullfilthe same end, and small caustic issues to either side of the larynx. Astringent gargles, as those of alum, tannic acid, or sulphate of zinc (which last was Bennati'a favourite pre- scription), are occasionally of much use, and inha- lations of hot steam or of medicated vapours of various descriptions, iodine, balsams, tar, turpen- tine, stramonium, narcotics and sedatives, have been thought to soothe at least temporarily. But the disease now under consideration is one which generally demands the adoption of more decided measures. The best results have been obtained from the local application if strong solutions of nitrate of silver. Trousseau and Billoc tried many other salts, but the use of none was followed by such good results as the sa.c of silver. It may be used in the form of powder (12 to 72 parts mixed with sugar), minutely divided and drawn into the air passages after being carried as far as the glottis in a reed or hollow glass tube; yet its diffusion is so difficult to obtain in this manner, and its action is so violent, that most surgeons prefer the more manageable form of solution. Employed in this form it can be introduced either by means of Bre- tonneau's sponge probang or by Trousseau's curved syringe, which has a finely perforated nozzle. A weak solution is found practically to do harm, as it only irritates and stimulates, but a solution of the strength of a drachm to the ounce of distilled water produces a very decided and often lasting effect in causing a change of action in the membrane. The probang charged with some of the solution above mentioned is passed into the larynx (for few credit the possibility of passing the vocal cords), and in this way the caustic is applied directly to the dis- eased siuface. It is best to begin by applying it to the pharynx alone, and then every two or three days to the larjmx, till the parts become somewhat used to the application, after which it may be applied daily, the repetitions being, however, in each case regulated by the effects. The cauterisation of the pharynx and tonsils is often productive of much good in affections confined apparently to the larynx How it acts in such cases is not easy to explain. If, however, the disease be far advanced, the necessity of obtaining perfect rest to the part be- comes imperative, and this is often unattainable to the required degree without making an artificial opening into the air passages below the seat of the malady. The constant cough and the hawking prevent rest, and the fear is great of sudden and fatal spasm. The more pressing danger is allayed by bronchotomy, and time is then obtained for the use of remedies to cure the disease. To be of use bronchotomy should be performed early, before the patient's strength has been too much exhausted. Finall)^, it is always to be re- membered that the fatal termination of chronic laryngitis is frequently due to the supervention ot the acute or the oedematous forms of the disease, and our measures must be taken with a clear knowledge of such a risk. Larmmal Cartilages, diseases of. Some of these affections liave been already referred to when re viewing chronic laryngitis. The cartilages of the larynx frequently ossify in old age, and are in con sequence rendered the more liable to injury, inis ossification may be very complete, so that the whole windpipe, including the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, may be rendered quite rigid. Exostosis of the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages have been observed, and in one case at least such a tumour has partially obstructed the oesophagus. Necrosis and caries may attack and destroy these cartilages, the former disease being, however, more common than the latter. In chronic laryn- gitis, when abscesses form or ulceration extends to the cartilages, the perichondrium being first af- fected, separates from the underlying cartilages, and the cartilage thus stripped of its organic con- nection, dies. Trousseau found the cartilages ne- crosed in more than the half of the cases of chronic laryngitis he examined. Sedillot, too, has shown that sometimes necrosis attacks these cartilages after severe fevers. When dead, the cartilage acts as a foreign bod)^ and may occasion much irritation before itis removed. Sometimes it escapes piecemeal, through openings existing into the interior of the larynx; sometimes an abscess works its way to the surface, and allows of the discharge of the fragments externally. If detached and falling inwards, it may cause suffo- cation, in consequence of its obstructing the larynx, or from the collapse of the windpipe, permitted by a removal of all support. Bronchotomy may be called for in some instances, in consequence of the obstruction set up bj"- these fragments. Caries is most common in the rings of the trachea, but it is rare in the cartilages of the larynx. It is occasioned in the same way as necrosis, and ma)"- cause most annoying fistulous tracts to form in the neck. In cases of caries, rapid and fatal asphyxia may result inconsequence of oedema of the glottis setting in. It has been proposed to cut down and remove necrosed or carious cartilage in the larynx, but as yet this proposal has not been put into practice. Fragments can frequently be removed by the fistu- lous tracks leading to them, but the disease in general is too hopeless to warrant much inter- ference. Nervous affections of tlie Laryiuv. Spasm of the glottis may occur either in the adult or in the child, and frequently occasions very serious results. In the adult such an affection is generally con- nected with hysteria, but it may result from pressure caused by various tumours on the inferior laryngeal nerves. Bronchocelo, cancerous and scrofulous tumours of the neck, and aneurism of the great vessels, may thus act. Spasmodic affec- tions of the glottis, too, may result from irritation of neighbouring or distant parts, as inflammation of the oesophagus or bronchi, or even of the soft parts, irritation of the nerve centres, or of the digestive or uterine organs. Thus the source of irritation may be both distant and obscure. _ The treatment of such an affection must vary with its cause, which must be diligently sought for and mitigated or removed. To relieve the immediate symptoms, cold affusion, fomentations to the fore part of the neck, stimulants to the nostrils, slapping the cheeks smartly, will usually avail. Opening the windpipe can only be thought of m very severe and intractable cases m which the cause is ever active, and cannot be removed. Anti- spasmodics and sedatives will be indicated if the attack can be foreseen, and is of such a nature as can be thought amenable to such remedies, in