as it is called, aplastic lynipli, is found in many in- flammations of serous membranes ; and, mingled with pus, in inflammations of mucous membranes. It is also found in scrofulous matter, and in most parenchymatous inflammations. But tlie most marked case of fatty degeneration in lymph is seen in its cells. These cells become gradually filled with minute shining granules, soluble in ether ; the cell-wall being at the same time more and more distended. These are the so-called " granule " cells of Vogel, or the " filled " cells of Ilenle ; and were first demonstrated by Reinhardt. (Traube's Beitr'dge, b. ii. p. 217.) Afterwards, the cell-wall disappears, but the granules still holding together for a time constitute the "compound inflammatory globule" of Ghige. Meanwhile, the nucleus uis- appears, and al last the granules separate, the cell breaks up into a pulpy mass, and is absorbed. It has been repeatedly pointed out that these changes of inflammatory eifusions are precisely analogous to the similar fatty metamorphoses of other tissues in a state of degeneration—such as the softening of clots of blood within the cavities of the heart, as demonstrated by Mr. Gulliver ; and the fatty degenerations of the cells of the liver or kidne}', or the fibres of the heart. As the result of inflammation, this form of degeneration is well seen in the atheroma of arteries. The "withering" of inflammatory effusions is seen in the dry, horny, change of vegetation on the valves of the heart or in the arteries ; and in the dried-up pus of chronic abscesses, and in the sta- tionary scrofulous enlargements. Calcareous de- generation is rare (except in the placenta, where it is very common), and pigmental degeneration is only seen in the lymph from certain inflammations, especially in that of tlie bronchi, the mucous mem- brane of which contains natiurally much pigmentary matter. The most notable form of degenerated lymph is pus. In it the new corpuscular elements of the lymph appear to have undergone simply fatty de- generation. The pus cells, al least those from deep- seated abscesses, are apparently lymph cells in a certain stage of their degeneration. The typical pus cell is a thin-walled globule, about -^-^ inch in diameter, irregular on its surface, wrinkled or granulated, and containing a bifid, trifid, or even quadrifid nucleus. Now all the cells in inflam- matory exudations have a tendency, as it were, to assume this typical form. Cells of every variety of shape and size are to be found, according to the particular stage of development which they have been able to reach before their degeneration com- menced. For they may succumb at any period of their existence, and according to the period will be their appearance. Pus cells also may undergo any of the previous forms of degeneration—and its commonest degene- ration is the fatty. In all cases where pus is ab- sorbed, it has probably been tlius changed. " The pus (says Virchow) is not reabsorbed as pus, but first undergoes a fatty metamorphosis. Every single cell sets fatty particles free within, breaks up, and at last nothing fuitlier remains than fatty granules and intervening fluid." {Cdliilar Pa- utolorjy, p. 1 «2.) In all cases fatty transformation appears to be essential to the absorption of-organic products, wlu'tlier inflammatory exudation cells, or the norm;il tissues of the body. (Sec Fund's iicclurcs, iv.) .VIAilUJN. 29 If, now, a section bo made through an inflamed part, say an area of inflamed areolar tissue, and it be examined at different points, cells in all the above varied stages of development and degene- ration will be successively met with. In proceeding from the healthy parts to the outskirts of the in- flammation, and thence to its focus, we meet first with cells which appear to have outgrown them- selves : unnaturally large, tlieir nuclei dividing once, twice, or more, till they become filled with fresli cells ; these afterwards assuming various forms of development, but, as we approach the focus of inflammation, degenerating into pus cells, assuming some one or other of the forms of degene- rated cells, mixed more and more abundantly with fat cells and granules ; till at last, in the centre of the inflamed part, little is to be seen but the de'bris of degenerated and dead matter, among which the original textures of the part can scarcely be recog- nised. Now this combination, side bj' side, of growing, proliferous cells on the onejiand, and degenerating cells on the other, is manifestly the result and indi- cation of an excessive production of the ordinary blastema of the part; which, failing to meet the conditions of healthy nutrition, miscarries, and, being unable to form new tissue, degenerates, and has to be removed, either by expulsion from the part, or absorption. So far, these cells have been considered as separate from the tissues among which they lie, as seen, that is, in effusions or exudations ; their actual origin has hitherto escaped observation, and can only be deduced by analogy. But there are cases of inflammation in which perfectly identi- cal changes have been traced from their commence- ment in the cells of the textures themselves, in which, therefore, there is, in the early stages of the inflammation at least, no effusion in the ordinary sense of the word. To such forms of inflammation Virchow applies the name of " parenchymatous " inflammation. (See Virchoivs Archive'n, t. iv.) And he considers that in all cases the so-called effusions have a similar origin from the cells of the part itself. " I am of opinion (he says) that in the sense in which it has usually been assumed to exist, there is no inflammatory exudation at all, but that the exudation which we meet with is essentially composed of the material which has been generated in the inflamed part itself, through the change in its condition, and of the transuded fluid derived from the vessels. If, therefore, a part possesses a great number of vessels, and particularly if they are superficial, it will be able to furnish an exudation, since the fluid which transudes from the blood conveys the special products of the tissue along with it to the surface. If this is not the case, there will be no exudation, but the whole process will be limited to the occurrence in the real sub- stance of the tissue of the special changes which iiave been induced by the inflammatory stimulus. In this manner, two forms of inflammation can be separated from one another: the piirdi/ pnraich/- maious injlammaiian, where the process runs its course in the interior of the tissue; and the seorc- /urj/ {exudalive) inJlammaUo ', which belongs more to the superficial organs. That there are two different forms is clearly shown by the fact that ihoy occur,'for the most part, in different organs. Every parenchymatous inflamnuition has from its outset a tendency to alter the histological and functional character of an organ. Every inflam-