a free-joint corresponding to the ankle-joint, and not 11 stop-joint, as generally recommended, as more g.iod rt-ill he derived from the frequent and roLjular employment of passive motion than from any mechanical aid. illE MECHANICAL TREATMENT OP CONGENITAL VARLS, AFTKIl THE PEKIOD OF WALKING, AND IN THE AUULT. It has been already explained that the severity of talipes varus becomes much increased after the period of walkmg, not onlv in consequence of the adapted growth of the ligaments, and the per- sistence of the deviations in the bones, but by the influence of the superincumbent weight which, In the act of progression, is transmitted to the ground— at first through the outer border of the foot, and subsequently through the exposed anterior articular surface of the os calcis; the exposed portion of the head of the astragalus; the cuboid and the two outer metUarsal bones. A stiaight wooden splint, softly padded, and applied along the outer side of the leg, may be used duriin; the first stage of the treatment, the object of which is to evert the foot, and reduce the deformity from varus to equinus. The Scarpa's shoe is the apparatus generally employed during the second stage of treatment— i.e., alter division of the tendo-Achillis when the object is to flex the foot; but some special contriv- ance, such as that known as a screw-pad^ must be used for " unfolding the transverse arch of the foot," as we generally express the movement re- quired to restore the cuboid bone and the two outer metatarsal bones to their normal position. For several adult cases, however, the writer pre- fers an apparatus of his own construction, which he has d 'scribed and figured in his work on Club foot (p. 261), and this may he employed both in the first and second stages of the treatment. APTER-TREAT.MENT. Bvthis is meant the treatment necessary, in in- fantile as well as adult cases, after the complete removal of the deformity, to retain the foot in its natural position, and to improve its pliysi(dogical condition, with resurct to the joints, muscular action, &c., so as to prevent relapse, and render the cure complete and permanent. The after- treatment, therefore, is both mechanical and phijsioluiiiad: the first consisting in the employ- ment of some mechanical support to retain the foot in its normal position—a retentive apparatus ; and the second in the use of active and passive exer- cises, shampooing, &c. In some slight infantile cases, where the muscles are strong, and the ligan;ent3 have not bi'conie adapted in thitir growth to the deformed position of the foot, no retentive apparatus may be required to keep ihe foot in its new position; hut, in all the more severe casi'S, the deformity will certainly re- turn unless the foot be retained in its normal posi'.ioii by mechanical means for a sufficient length of time, and appropriate measures be adopted to promote its physiological improvement. It is always necessary to employ a retentive apparatus, con.tisling of a light steel support at- tached to the foot below, and passing upwards to the calf of the leg, round which a circular band, made partly of steel and partly of leather, passes. PES. C83 In this steel support there should be a free-joint corresponding to the ankle-joint. When a dec ded tendency to inversion of the foot and h g exists dm-ing walking, this can only be eflectually contndled Irom the hip-joiiu, and, for this purpose, a steel support must be carried up to the waist, and connected with a pelvic belt, a free-joint being [jlaced oppnsite the knee. In children this apparatus may have to be worn from two to four years. In children ai)Ove the age of six or seven years, much may be done by drilling; and as the tendency to inversion is geiu'rally within the power of voluntary control, the retentive apparatus above described is seldom required. In youth and in the adult it is never necessary. Tlie physioloyical ineaiis consist of active and passive exercises, with rubbing and shampooing. In infantile caves passive exercises, i. e. " working the foot" in thedirectiim of flexion and extension, should be conducted by the nurse for a quarter of an hour twice a day at least. In older children this is assisted by the exercise of walking, but the passive exercise must not be neglected, because, if any stiffness at the ankle-joint remains, children run about without flexing the ankle-joint, and then relapse of the deformity is certain. In adults active and passive motion must be persevered in with the utmost attention and regularity. NON-CONGENITAL TALIPES VARUS, Talipes varus is sometimes met with as a non- congenital deformity, generally resulting from in- fantile paralysis during teething, but sometimes produced by other causes. Although the cause upon which this deformity depends dates, gene- rally, from infanc}', yet, as the distortion of the foot is slowly produced, we seldom see these cases in childhood, Imt generally in youth or in the adult. The coexisting paralytic condition of the limb is considered to be the more in.portant atfection, and the surgeon is frequently not con- sulted till such inconveniences have arisen as to render walking very painful, if not impracticable^ either from ulcerations on the foot, to which these paralytic extremities are especially liable, or from increase of the distortion, so that the boots and supports generally used can no longer be worn. EXTERNAL CHARACTERS. The external characters of non-congenital varus resemhle, or rather approach in resemblance to, those of the ordinary congenital form of varus, but they are never so distinctly marked, for two reasons : 1st. Not being congenital, there is an absence of the charieteristic deformity of the bones, more particularly of the astragalus, wiiicli exists even at birth in the congenital form. 2iid. Being nearly always of paralytic origin, the foot is pushed or forced into its derornied posi- tion by the superincumbent weight of the body in walking, rather than drawn into it by the active tonic contraction of the luusclea, and its retention in this position is the result only of a slow adapta- tion of the ligaments and muscles. The foot, tlierel'ore, although it may assume the inverted position sufliclently for its classification with varus as a variety, presents a generally rounded and smooth external surface, without any of the marked irregularities on the dorsal aspect, and without the longitudinal and transverse de- pressions on the plantar aspect described as charac-