'^^'^ PilLEGMAS] phlebitis. It is mostly seen in puerperal women, but sometimes in other women who have not been pregnant ; and now and then in tlie male sex. I have had two male patients of this kind : one of them was a soldier, in a military hospital at Cambray, during the war ; the other was a man who died in the Queen's Bench Infirmary. In the post-mortem examination, the external iliac and other veins were found completely obstructed. Dr. Davis, of University College, was the first who proved, by dissection, that phlegmasia dolens depended on inflammation of the iliac and femo- ral veins. (See Med. Chir. Trans. yo\. xii. 1823.) One of his cases occurred in 1817, considerably prior to the examples recorded by M. Bouillaud in 1823. The latter states, however, that Chaus- sier and Meckel had related still earlier instances of phlegmasia dolens in puerperal women, where the crural veins had been found inflamed and ob- structed. (See Archiv. de Med. t. ii. Jany. 1823.) [»^aj-(/a?!osis,Dioscorides; Depotlaiteux, CEdema lacteum, Puzos ; Infiltrations laiteuses des extre- mit&s infirieures. Phlegmasia lactea, Levret; Wliite leg; Weisse Sclienkelgeschwulst der Wochnerinnen; Phlegmasia alha dolens pu«rperarum, Charles White, 1784. The disease was recognised clinically by Sy- denham, Mauriceau, Puzos, Levret, Deleurye, and Morgagni. The clinical description of Puzos leaves little to be desired. He it was, indeed, who most strenuously supported the theory of lacteal metastasis, regarding the disease as depending upon deposits of milk in the vessels or pelvic cellular tissue. Nor is this theory to be altogether condemned. Certainly it is not true that milk, as milk, is carried to the crural veins, and coagulates there. But clinical observation shows that if the lacteal secretion be disturbed in the early stage (as by cold, emotion, or other causes), the blood receives or retains matters that ought to be eliminated; and these matters being of an irritating kind, cause the blood to coagulate in those vessels where there is a predisposition to this process from the circulation being obstructed. Puzos, again, has the merit of having signalised the close relation between cases of ordinary phleg- masia dolens and cases of puerperal pelvic cellulitis. This relation appears to have been latterly lost sight of. The milk-deposit theory was contested by White, who proposed the designation now in vogue. He ascribed the disease to engorgement of the lymphatics, the result of injury during labour. Trye adopted this view, with some modifications. Hull attributed the disease to an inflammatory afl'ection in the muscles, cellular tissue, and inferior surface of the skin, communicated in some cases to the large bloodvessels, nerves, and lymphatics. No considerable step was taken until D. Davis brought forward cases and dissections to show that the essential cause consisted in inflammation of the pelvic and crural veins. He was followed by Robert Lee, who cited numerous cases and dissec- tions in support of the theory of phlebitis. He contended that the disease begins in the pelvic veins in the uterine branches, and thence extends to the iliacs and femoral. When the doctrine of primary phlebitis was shaken, when numerous ex- periments had shown that the phenomena con- sidered to be due to inflammation of the veins, were in reality the results of changes in the blood and not of the vessels, the doctrine of thrombosis, A DOLENS. or clotting, came into prominence. F. W. Mac- kenzie endeavoured to show, by the concurrent evidence of clinical observations and experiments, that obstruction of the veins might arise from the clotting of the blood, which was caused by the entry into the circulation of irritating matter. Ex- periments by Henry Lee and others had proved the same thing. But Tilbury Fox, admitting this fact, pointed out that venous thrombosis was in- sufficient to account for the phenomena of phleg- masia dolens. To this modern theory he linked the antecedent theory of lyrnphatic obstruction, contending that both were necessary to bring out the characteristic symptoms of the disease. Vein- thrombosis will cause osdema. But cedema is not phlegmasia dolens. In ce lema there is effusion of serosity, possessed of little coagulable power, in the cellular tissue. In phlegmasia dolens, the lym- phatics being also obstructed, the serosity cannot be absorbed ; the swelling begins above, extend- ing downwards in the limb ; if punctured, very little oozes out, the serosity has gelatinised ; the limb does not pit on pressure. T. Fox insisted also that obstruction might be due simply to extrinsic pressure, as by a tumor; this would produce a mild form of the disease. But obstruction may be due to the entry of virus- matter into the vessels—veins and lymphatics- causing thrombosis, and a severer form of disease. It is difficult to illustrate by dissection all the anatomical conditions associated with the different varieties of the disease. It is not often fatal; and it is a priori probable that in the fatal cases, changes not essential to the production of the sim- ple disease are superadded. R. Lee found the branches and trunk of the left iliac vein filled with purulent fluid; the coats of the common, external,and femoral veins thickened, and filled with soft coagula of lymph and pus; the vena cava, to about two inches below the hepatic veins, blocked with lymph; and several glands in the vicinity of the vena cava and iliac veins in a state of suppuration. Wm. Lawrence (D. Davis) found the inguinal glands a little enlarged, not in- flamed; the femoral vein from the ham upwards, the common and external iliac veins, filled with clot like that of an aneurismal sac; the uterus con- tracted, and its appendages and bloodvessels nor- mal. Cruveilhier and Ramsbotham noticed the implica- tions of the glands. Similar observations are now numerous. During life also there is abundant evi- dence that the veins are obstructed bj' clot. The femoral veins can be felt like knotted cords; and the accompanying lymphatics are felt hard, en- larged, tender; and these conditions gradually dis- appear as the swelling of the legs subsides. When the swelling begins to subside, an attempt at the establishment of a collateral circulation is made. The superficial veins of the leg, thigh, and abdomen enlarge. The skin itself is thickened; the under- lying tissue is hardened, dense. In some cases diffuse cellulitis and even suppuration takes place. But this appears to be an epiphenomenon, or due to some iissociated complication. Hull, Trye, Davis, Mackenzie, all call attention to the antecedence of fever. And, certainly, there must be something enter- ing the blood- and lymph-vessels capable of causing bloud and lymph to coagulate. Pressure clearly acts only in e.xceptional cases. The exciting causes are well stated by Hull;—contusions or violent