LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OP, 187 all cases the secretions must be regulated, and fresh air and the administration of chalybeates or other tonics will in most cases be beneficial. Nervous aphonia is occasionally met with in females, depending on some temporary irritation of the nervous system, and it is to the removal of meh irritation that our treatment must be directed. The sudden manner in which the seizure comes and goes is its leading characteristic. This affec- tion is sometimes dependent on a relaxed condition of the throat, and demands stimulant and astrin- gent gargles, or the topical use of nitrate of silver, while, in all cases we employ general measures to strengthen and tone the system after having re- moved any specific derangement which may be present, In children, spasmodic afFectionw of the glottis are often very serious. Such an affection is vari- ously designated " spasmodic or false croup," " laryngisnms stridulus," " thymic asthma," " crowing disease," &c., &c. Those affected are usually below four years of age, and are attacked for the moat part suddenly on awaking from sleep with dyspnoea, so severe as to threaten instant death. This ends in a crowing noisy inspiration as recovery takes place. Some- times we have no difficulty in discovering the cause of the seizure, but at other times we find no- thing to guide us. Some unusual bodily or mental irritation is the common cause ; an irritation in the gums, in the digestive organs, or in the brain. Fear or sudden impressions of any vivid kind may also occasion it. Weakly children, as those reco- vering from some depressing complaint, are those most liable to be attacked. Some authors have ascribed it universally to disease of the brain, others to the thjonus gland or enlarged scrofulous glands at the root of the neck pressing on the recurrents or the veins, and thus causing a direct effect on the glottis, or congestion, and, it may be, effusion on the brain. However, we well know that spasmodic croup does not always recognise such serious causes as these, but may be due to temporary influences which leave no permanent evil behind. The attack of spasm may pass off as suddenly as it came, and may not return, but most usually it recurs at irregular intervals, if the cause continue in activity, and it may even end in general convulsions. It is apt to be mistaken for a foreign body in the air passages. The absence of fever and premoni- tory symptoms, its suddenness, its [irregular inter- mittent character, all cause it to resemble a foreign body present in the windpipe, but there are other points in which the}' manifestly differ, and these will be found discussed under the head Trachea. The sjonptoms which have been above referred to, taken in connection with the child's age, the absence of any catarrhal symptoms, the freedom of breathing between the attacks, and the presence of some efficient cause, will point out the true nature of the affection. In its treatment cold affusions to the head, while the lower part of the body is placed in hot water, and friction is employed to the limbs, striking the nates smartly wliile tiie child is held somewhat forward, will probably remove the spasm, but artificial respiration by tlie mouth, if such can be accomplished, or after opening the ■windpipe, if that be considered necessary, may be required to effect complete restoration. After the immediate danger of the attack is over, and in order to provide against a repetition, the general health must be improved, and we must search for and remove the cause of the affections whatever it be. The bowels must be carefully regulated and kept free, and the gums examined. Change of air, good soluble food of an unirritating and easily assimilated character, and the adminis- tration of tonics, and especially iodine and iron, will in general prove serviceable. Larynoi', tnorbid grotvths in the. H)'datids, car- tilaginous tumours, warts and venereal papules are occasionally developed in the larynx. Polypous growths, or growths simulating polypi in shape, are also met with. These last occur most frequently in young male subjects, and are invested with con- siderable interest. They may be either of the mucous or fibrous description, and vary much in size and shape. They may be round or lobulated; single or in clusters. Occasionally me- dullary cancer is found in the larynx, assuming shapes similar to that of polypous growths. La- ryngeal polypi, though sometimes attached by broad bases, are most frequently met with narrow and long stems. The nmcous polypus consists of an hypertrophy of the mucous membrane, wliile the fibrous springs from the sub-mucous tissue, and either ruptures the overlying membrane, or carries a layer of it on its surface. Laryngeal polypi cause danger by the mechanical obstruction they occasion in the windpipe, and this they the more readily accomplish from their most common site being the neighbourhood of the glottis. They also occur on the vocal cords, in the ventricles of the larynx, and at the root of the epiglottis. When present in the larynx, polj'pi cause embarrassment to the respiration, a change in the tone of the voice and in the sound of the breathing, and sometimes they give rise to much more serious effects by changing their position sud- denly (when attached loosely) and closing the chink of the glottis. Suffocation will follow such an accident, if the efforts of the patient fail to remove the impediment, If he is successful in freeing the orifice, the former state of the respira- tion is at once restored. The movement of these tumours within tlie larynx is occasionally per- ceived by the patient, and their presence can sometimes be demonstrated by means of the laryn- goscope when the patient is placed in a good light, the tongue well depressed, and a forced expiration made. In such cases the tumour may occasionally be seen for a moment to project by the side of the epiglottis. Roux and otliers have moreover suc- ceeded in exploring these tumours with the finger. These methods of diagnosis may be put into requi- sition in any suspected case, and if portions of the growths are expectorated, as the)' sometimes are, then there can be no hesitation felt as to the nature of the obstruction. It may be added that some patients afiected with laryngeal polypus, have by making rapid efforts of inspiration and expiration produced a valvc-Iike sound, and a hoarse cough and a sibilant inspiration are not uncommon accompaniments of the affection. The symptoms occasioned by the growtli will liowevpr vary with its site. Polypi are not however always easily recognised or distin- guished from other affections in which there is obstruction to the respiration. Sometimes they