472 [ POLYPUS OF THE UTERUS,' 3. The ghmduhr or mucous polypus generally grows from the os uteri, varying in size from a filbert to a walnut. It is smooth and vascular, and contains in some instances a curdy matter, or yellowish viscid fluid. Herbininux describes this form. It is not uncommon. 4. The vascJtlar polypus takes its rise from a dilatation or varicosity of the vessels running under the mucous membrane. All these three forms are found in the cervix or os uteri. Among conditions simulating polypus may be mentioned a nuish- .room-like hypertrophy of the os uteri. It is re- ferred to by Dance, Be'rard, Cruveilhier, Mayer, Meissner, Malgaigne, and Montgomery. Malig- nant growths of the os also often resemble polypus by their form. In addition to the above recognised forms, Rokitansky, Kiwisch, Scanzoni, and C. Braun have described other varieties. C. Braun (1851) describes the "placental poh/jms." This results from the remains of the placenta, consisting of hypertrophied decidua, which projecting into the uterine cavity form a polypoid mass. Braun relates five cases in which violent haemorrhage broke out some time after delivery. Polypi of the kind de- scribed were found. In four cases they were ex- tracted with the finger; in one the polypus sepa- rated spontaneously. The fongosites intrd-uterines of Nonat, according to Stadtfeld, of Copenhagen (Dtibl. Q. Journ. of Med. 1863), are placental remains. Such a case was sent to the writer by Dr. Woodman. Arthur Farre (Todd's Cyclop, of Anai.) saj-s he has satisfied himself of the correct- ness of Heschl's opinion, which agrees with the above, upon the formation of the placental poly- pus. Malgaigne describes " moliform polypi," con- taining hair. Rokitansky and Kiwisch describe '■ fibrinous polypi." Kiwisch says when men- struation has been retarded six weeks, fibrinous polypi may arise from long persistent hfemorrhage, a large coagulum forming, the upper part consisting mostly of fibrine, and adhering by a stalk to the uterine wall, whilst the lower part consists of red soft coagulum having a coat of firm fibrine. These polypi always occasion profuse menorrhagia. Scan- zoni and Rokitansky, however, do not admit this view. They say these are cases of abortion. An ovum, after fixing itself in the mucous membrane of the uterus, and after being quite clothed with a decidua reflexa, is soon driven down by uterine contraction into the cervical canal, its attachment lengthening into a stalk by the stretching and growth of the tissues. The embryo escapes, whilst a portion of the membranes or st!vlk remains, and by accretions of fibrin-coagula forms the basis of fibrinous polypus. The source of the bleeding has been the occasion of much controversy. Mr. Langstaff^ {Med. C/iir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 63) described a case in whicli the polypus coming through the os uteri had its mucous surface destroyed by the ulcerative process, and as this part was covered with coagulated blood, Mr. Langstaff inferred that the hajmorrhage proceeded chiefly from the tumor, and not from the inner surface of the uterus. Dr. R. Lee refers to a specimen {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix.) in whicli the tumor contained a coagulum of blood in a con- siderable cavity. Gooch says (Most iviporiaiil ■Diseases peculiar to Women, 1829, or IVeiv Si/d- oiluxm Society's Edition, p. 130.) : "When n tumor supplied with vessels, and consequently capable of bleeding, grows from an organ so subject to bleed as the uterus, it is difficult to demonstrate whether the hemorrhage arises from the tumor or from the uterus. The strong reason for attributing the hasmorrhages to the tumor, is this. As soon as a ligature is applied and tightened round the stalk, the hajmorrhage from that time ceases, although it may be several days before the tumor comes away." Lisfranc took the same view. And it derives strength from the fact that if the tumor be seen whilst the ligature is being tightened, the surface becomes turgid with blood, some of which oozes freely. On the other hand, the writer points out {On Uterine Polypus, 1854) "that profuse htemorrhage attends very small polypi as well as those of large size. Again, the hiemor- rhage mostly assumes the form of profuse men- struation. Haimorrhagic menstruation is a com- mon consequence upon inflammation, hyper- trophy, tumors, and other conditions of the womb which set up a preternatural action. The presence of a polypus seems to act in a precisely similar manner. It therefore seems difficult to avoid the conclusion, that the excess of the ordinary menstrual discharge, occurring when a polypus is present, flows, like the normal proportion, from the womb. When the polypus is very large, almost the entire mucous membrane of the uterus may be protruded before it ; that is, there is no mucous membrane but that investing the tumor. In such a case it may in one sense be said truly that the hasmorrhage comes from the surface of the tumor. But this situation of the mucous mem- brane is accidental. It is surely more correct to say, even in such a case, that the true source of the haemorrhage is the mucous membrane." The reason why the hsemorrhage ceases when the polypus is removed or strangled by a ligature, is this: the source of morbid developmental activity being cut ofi^, the stimulus to the attrac- tion of an excessive proportion of blood to the uterus is removed ; the balance of the uterine circulation is restored ; accidental floodings cease, and the discharge at the menstrual periods falls to the usual amount corresponding to the physiological ovarian stimulus. As to the consequences of polypi, much variety is observed. Velpeau {Journ. de Med. ct de Chir. Prat. 1859) says they are sometimes harm- less, and that the consequences are not in re- lation with their volume. Some disappear spon- taneously. But commonly repeated hsemorrhages induce such a degree of anajmia that even death follows, if the tumor be not removed. And this danger is greatly increased if pregnancy supervene. (See fatal cases in Gooch, p. 145.)" Dr. Cockle relates {Med. Times a7>d Gaz. 1863) a case of a large pedunculated fibrous polypus attiiched near the fundus uteri, distending the uterus .and vagina, and giving rise to frequent bleedings and oflfensive discharges. The patient died after symptoms of peritonitis from perforation. The ovarian extremity of the right Fallopian tube was found distended by the discharge, some of which had escaped into the abdominal cavity. Many patients have died exhausted by bleeding caused by an intra-uterine polypus not suspected during life. A point of great importance in the constitution of polypi, is noticed by R. Ferguson {Iiitrodiwtion to New Sydenham Soc, Ed. of Gooch), which is,