INCARCERATION. more or less energetic, which have lasted a longer or shorter period ; but the loss of semen has ex- asperated symptoms instantaneously, or very shortly afterwards." (Vol. iii. p. 333.) No doubt can exist that the habitual employ- ment of cantharidcs is prejudicial ; but in the present day, when this substance is no longer given as indiscriminately as it was formerly, the surgeon may often advantageously prescribe it. Thus, where erection is feeble, when the fears of the patient greatly influence his mind, a few doses are very advisable. But after success, the remedy must be left off, for we do not want to excite the organs frequently, as the repeated shocks on the nervous system will often only farther depress the vital powers. Phosphorus is another of the pharmaceutical preparations which the modern surgeon frequently employs in the treatment of impotence. The ob- ject is to supply that peculiar pabulum which the exertion of nervous influence appears to exhaust. We may theoretically infer that in these com- plaints there is a great expenditure of phosphorus in its various combinations, and that there may be a deficiency of this substance in the system, just as in other diseases, particularly chlorosis, there is a deficiency of iron. In either case we should supply the system freely with the element it seems to need, in such a way as it may be easily taken up and retained in the circulation. Practice as well as theory seems to sanction this treatment, and phosphoric acid, in combination with syrup of orange peel and syrup of ginger is a favourite formula, particularly in those cases where there is reason to suppose the semen is not secreted in sufficient abundance, or where too rapid, ejacula- tion attends the sexual act, or when connection is attended with serious nervous depression. Strychnine has been frequently recommended in the treatment of impotence, and it is a very valuable tonic in cases attended with great ner- vous depression, whether resulting from sexual ex- cesses or any other cause. It is equally beneficial in those forms of impotence depending on weak or' imperfect erection. It is capable of increasing the general muscular energy, and in such cases may be prescribed either alone or in combination with quinine. Electricitij must be classed among the modern remedies for impotence. This agent has answered best in those lethargic constitutions that require rousing, and simply demand a local stimulant, capable of determining blood and nervous power towards the generative system. When, on the contrary, there is debility dependent on previous over excitement, this, as well as every other local stimulant, acts injuriously on the system. The patient can, by means of the batteries which may now be obtained anywhere, at no great cost, apply the remedy himself. Marriuffc has been classed among the remedies for the slighter affections of the sexual organs. Lallemand thinks that, in the slighter cases of functional disease, no doubt can exist that mar- riage may completely cure the patient, before contmued excess or evil habit has produced those ill consequences which have been described; for the regular exercise of organs will alone give all the energy of which they are susceptible, and tliose of generation are far from forming an exception to this general law. To complete the cure it is necessary that sexual relations should bo established." In the confirmed cases, however, where irrita- tion or inflammation is set up in the vesiculaj seminales, or when diurnal or nocturnal emissions take place involuntarily, the man who is injudi- ciously persuaded " to commit " matrimony will only aggravate the complaint. He will probably find all his previous symptoms exaggerated, and erection, even under excitement, will probably not take place. And even if it does, ejaculation may precede the intromission of the virile organ, or in many cases not occur at all. Lallemand judiciously observes, in reference to such cases, that " it is precisely because marriage is the most sacred bond for individuals, as well as the most important for society, and because an iron law renders it indissoluble, that it is rational as well as moral not to contract it without the certainty that it will be perfect and complete." (Vol. iii. p. 470.) In practice, however, we find that the plans of parents and the advice of the surgeon are alike frustrated by other considerations. In many cases the patient is too young to marry ; in other in- stances of spermatorrhosa, the dislike to marriage is such that every woman is distasteful to the suf- ferer, as if nature really intended to spare the victim those mental sufferings we have noted as attendant on these ill-starred matches. Indeed the writer's experience is, that, as a general rule, there is little need to dissuade those from marrying who ought not to do so. Our task is rather in the other direction—to encourage those nervous hypochondriacal people, who labour under the delusion that they are unfit to undertake the rational duties of husbands and fathers.] W. Acton, INCARCERATION. This term is usually applied to those cases of hernia in which the viscera are pressed upon, either by the opening through which they protrude, or by the parts themselves within the hernial sac, to such a degree, that the course of the intestinal matter towards the anus is obstructed, and nausea, sickness, pain, and tension of the hernial swelling and of the abdomen, &c., are occasioned. The rupture is then said to be in a state of incarcera- tion. Professor Scarpa makes the following distinction between an incarcerated and a strangulated hernia, In the first case, says he, the course of the in- testinal matter is interrupted, without any con- siderable impairment of the texture, or vitality of the bowel. On the contrar}', in the strangulated hernia, besides the obstruction to the course of the frecal matter, there is organic injury of the coats of the intestine, with possible loss of its vitality. The bowel that is merely incarcerated, resumes its functions immediately it is replaced in the abdo- men, while that which is truly strangulated does not so readily return to its natural state. {Traitii des Hcrnics, p. 251.) INCONTINENCE OF URINE. (See Urine, Incontinence of.) INFLAMMATlOxN. [Section I.—0« the diffi. cullies of dejiniliuH; and on tlic question tvhetherpro- cesses o/repair arc to bo considered injlainmdtori/, —In order to start with something tiuigible in the way of definition, we will state that we do- fine inflammation shortly as a " diseased process