998 VISION. the liinita of the field of vision of the eye under examination. This record, if taken from an im- piiired retina, should Ix^ compared with tracings of the limits of the field of vision of the retina of a corresponding he;ilthy eye. Tlie field of vision thus obtained is tenned the quantitative F, while the so-called qualitative F, refers to the perception of letters at varying dis- tances from the white cross. The limits of both kinds cnn be marked on the same sheet of paper, and measuring horizontally and vertically from the cross, we state that the quantitative and qualita- tive perception horizontally outwards and inwards, and vertically upwards and downwards, fimounts to so many inches, &c. A useful and quicker mode of ascertaining the sensibility of the more excentric parts of the retina and with it the limits of F, is the follow- ing :—Suppose we wish to examine the retina of a patient's right eye ; we place ourselves at a dis- tance of two feet from and facing the patient, and then direct him to li)ok steadily at our left eye, which during the examination is continually directed to his right eye. If, by moving our hand at equal distances from our own and the patient's eye and opposite the excentric parts of the retina, we find tliat the patient perceives these movements at the same distances as we do with our healthy retina, we suppose the peripheral por- tions of his retina sensitive. The patient has to look at our right eye, while his left eye is under examination. Each part of F refers to the retina opposite that part ; suppose e.g. that, moving the hand in the outer and upper quarter of the field, its movements are not perceived by the patient, we infer that an alteration of sensibility of the inner and lower quadrant of the retina exists. Whatever modes of ascertaining the sensibility of the excentric parts of the retina be adopted, care should be taken that the position of the pa- tient's eye and its distance from our own eye remain luialtered during the examination, and that they are the same whenever the examuiation is repeated. The size, form, and distance of objects.—In the formation of ideas of the sizes, forms, and distances of objects, we are guided by the sizes, &c., of the images of these objects in the retina, and by the degree of effort of the power of accommodation required to produce distinct images. For the same purpose we make use of certain movements of the eyes, of the head, and of the body. If we have a knowledge of the exact sizes, forms, and distances of a few objects, we possess a guide in firming our judgment of the sizes, &c., of others. Thus, by a continuous repetition or modi- fication of the muscular effjrts which are necessar}- to see ill succession different objects and their details, we acquire experience as regards the muscular power which each time is required to recognise the size, &c., of any particular object, and to this erperience we appeal when examining new objects. The size of the image of an}' object on the retina varies with the distance of the object ; and knowing the sizes of some objects and those of their retinal images, we possess a second means by which we improve our ideas as to the sizes, dis- tances, &c,, of other objects. If the lengtli or size of an image formed on the retina by an object be required : then having given the length of the object, equal to any assumed length (e.g. 3 f.iet) and the distance of its middle point, measured along a line, whicii we assume a continuation of tlie optic axis, from tiie nodal point equal to 7 feet we have AB (the length of the object) : ab (the length of its image in the retina) : : NE (the distance of the middle point of the object from the nodal point) : Ne (the distance of the middle point of the image in the retina from the nodal Ne, hence ab = NE point) AB : ab : : NE + Ne. Now, we express the distance of the imige on the retina from the nodal point ; and this dis- tance is constant. The distance NE varies, but the distance Ne remains invariable and is equal to I of an inch. The length of the image, expressed in fractional or decimal parts of an inch, is fuuud A R by multiplying | by the fraction _. NE In tlie case assumed, AB = 3 NE = 7 feet. Hence the length I inch = AA, or -26785 inch. feet, and of image. It is neces- sary that A B and N E be expressed in, or be re- duced, to the same denomination. Thus, if it be required to find the size or length of an image formed by an object 10 inches in length, and placed at the distance of eight feet from the nodal point, then length or size of image — X - inch = or 0651 inch. o X i 8 Hai ' The idea of bodily form of any object is chiefly developed through the dissimilarity of the retinal images of the two eyes. While looking at one point of an object this point appears single, and all others appear double. By then viewing in succes- sion other points of the same object, we each time alter the convergence of the eyes as well as the sizes of the two retinal images, and with these the distances of those points of an object which are seen double. We thus gradually acquire an idea of what is termed the form or solidity of an ob- ject. We must more particularly allude to the mode in which an idea of the size of an object is de- veloped. Suppose we distinctly see a line of un- known length at a known disfcince, and are required to st.ate what the length of the line amounts to. To do this we direct the visual line first to one end of the line, then along the line to the other end. The vi.ual line has thus to describe a certain angle, or to travel over a certain distance, and upon the estimation of this angle, or this dis- tance (that is, upon the amount of muscular power required to describe the angle), depends our state- mL'nt as regards the length of the line ; e.g.. u we look from one end of a line, which is one foot long, to the other end, our visual lines have to travel a shorter distance than when looking in the same way at a line which is five or ten feet long, or more. Less muscular power is required to look over the hrst than over the other lines, and it is from the expe- rience acquired by repealing the experiment uncon- sciously upon objects wiiich surround us that finally possess the power of rapidly stating the size of any object—its height by estimating the distance of its two extreme points from each other m a ver- tical direction ; its width by estimating the two extreme points in a liorizontal direction. Our estimation of the rate of motion of an oU-