VENEREAL DISEASE,' 3 o 2 9:51 rarity of the true syphilitic chancre can furnish the explanation. However, so faras I can believe inj' own eyes and judgment, I now see in London the same forms of chancre which used to prevail during my apprenticeship at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, as far back as 1808. And if any difference can be particularised, it is only that which depends upon theirbeing less rarely converted into worse dis- eases than mere syphilitic ulceration, by the dread- ful eflects of immoderate courses of mercury. With respect to the three modes in which Mr. Hunter speaks of the venereal poison being ap- plied and taking effect, I know not why he should have altogether excluded secreting surfaces ; for of this nature (as Mr. Bacot remarks) are the glans penis and corona glandis {On Syphilis, p. 55) ; and of a similar kind are the insides of the labia, the surfaces of the nymphte, &c., where sores are common enough. Whatever may be the truth of tlie supposed impossibility of the formation of chancres within the urethra, the latter consider- ations certainly tend to piove that the secreting iiature of its membrane is not the only reason for the alleged fact. I shall not here detain the reader with descrip- tions of the primary ulcer with elevated edges, the phagedenic and the sloughing chancre ; nor with the statements of Mr. Carmichael respecting the train of constitutional symptoms appertaining, as he believes, to each form of ulcer. It is an in- teresting disquisition ; but, so far as ray observa- tions and inquiries go, it has not yet reached any degree of certainty or precision ; and, as I have already explained, the reports published by other gentlemen engaged in this investigation do not by any means confirm the much-desired intelligence that such progress has been made in the knowledge of all the diversified symptoms of the venereal disease, that its varieties can now be classed, both in regard to the primary ulcers and the secondary symptoms connected with each descrip- tion of chancre. I firmly believe that, with respect to all the appearances of this disease, both in its primary and secondary forms, a great deal depends upon con- stitution, independently of the nature of the virus. On this point I feel much more certainty than on the disputed question whether syphilitic diseases depend upon a variety of poisons, and whether some of the perplexity of these cases can be thus explained. The varieties in the appearances of chancres badly comprehended, or wrongly interpreted, are noticed by M. Ricord as sometimes taken up as an argument against the identity of the venereal poison, and sometimes as a proof of the pluralitv of venereal poisons ; but (says he) ''If a chancre be rightly studied with reference to its cause, which is always the same, and to its mode of develop- ment and consequences, in regular and uncom- plicated examples, the apparent differences are easily accounted for, and all contradictions cease ■ for whatever may be the actual form of chancre from which the pus is taken, provii/ed it be 0)ilj/ laknn at the rirjht period, already specified, a regular characteristic pustule is the result when the in- fectious mutter is conveyed under the cuticle or epithelium ; an ulcer at once when it is applied to deiiiiHcd textures ; or an abscess when it is intro- duced into the cellular tissue, or n lymphatic vossfcl or gland. Allowance being always mad(! for the difference depending upon the situation and the particular tissues affected, the same iden- tical aspect, the same regular and characteristic appearance, always attend the ulcer at its com- mencement ; and this whether the sore follows the rupture of the pustule, the opening of a virulent abscess of the cellular tissue, or of the lymphatic system, or whether the ulcer is formed at once. The deviations, or particular forms only happen, or are developed afterwards, and under the injluence of co?iditions foreign to tlic specifia cause; such as the peculiar constitution of the individual, his prior or concomitant diseases, the great or little care he may take to preserve his general health, or the constitutional or local treatment to which he is subjected. Hence, patients are seen luilh phagedenic chancres, who caught the disease from persons ivhose sores were mild ; and hence the ab- solute falsehood.of the notion that an aggravated form of tlie disease is contracted by connection ivitli a person toho has it severely.^' {Ph. Ricord, Mai. Ven. p. 135.) The local or immediate effects of the venereal disease are seldom wholly specific, but are usually attended both with the specific and constitutional inflammation. Hence, Mr. Hunter advises parti- cular attention to be paid to the manner in which a chancre first appears, and to its progress. If the inflammation spreads in a quick and considerable way, the constitution must be more disposed to inflammation than natural. When the pain is severe, he would infer that there is a strong dis- position to irritation. Chancres, also, sometimes, soon begin to slough, there being a strong tendency to mortification. Here he adverts to what are now usually called phagedenic venereal sores ; of which the reader may find a minute description, and an attempted classification of them, in Wallace's trea- tise, chap. iv. It is observed by'Mr. Hunter that when there is a considerable loss of substance, either from sloughing or ulceration, a profuse bleeding is no uncommon circumstance, more especially when the ulcer is on the glans. The adhesive inflam- mation does not appear to take place 'sufficiently to unite the veins of this part of the penis, so as to prevent their cavity from being exposed; and the blood escapes from the corpus spongiosum urethras. The ulcers, or sloughs, often extend as deeply as the corpus cavernosum penis, and similar bleedings are the consequence. With respect to chancres in women, the labia and nymphte, like the glans penis in men, are sub- ject to ulceration ; and the ulcerations are gene- rally more numerous in females than males, in consequence of the surface on which the sores are liable to form being much larger. As Mr. Hunter observes, chancres are occasionally situ- ated on the edge of the labia, sometimes on the outside of these parts, and even on the perineum. When the sores are formed on the inside of the labia or nymphas, they can never dry, or scab ; but, when they are externally situated, the matter may dry on them, and produce a scab, just as happens with respect to chancres situated on the scrotum, or body of the penis. Mr. Hunter remarks that the venereal matter from these sores is apt to run down the perineum to the nnus, and excoriate the pans, especially pbout the anus, where the skin is thin, and where chancres nuiy be thug occasioned,