SEASES OF. S35 .RECTUM, DI •excision of the diseased growth was eft'ectually practised, and in which tlie disease did not return. He describes it as less painful than ordinary cancer, and without mucli tendency to produce contraction and obstruction of the passage. There is also an absence of the cancerous cachexia, of the emaciation and pale and anxious countenance so frequently marked in malignant disease. When the surgeon meets with a raised ulcer, with an uneven surface, and indurated edges, causing, if it extend into the rectum, but little pain, and producing no contrac- tion hi the passage, he may suspect the disease is an epitlielial cancer, and treat it accordingly. Its true character can only be determined with accu- racy by a microscopical examination of the morbid tissue. {On Diseases of the Rectum, ed. 3, p. 154.) Two cases of well-marked epithelial cancer have been under the writer's care. In the first, the growth aiiected the integument at the verge of the anus, and extended into the rectum for a consider- able distance—too far to render any operation for its removal justifiable. The patient died in about two years from the commenctment of the disease. In the second case, there was an indurated and ulcerated growth on the integument of the buttock, just outside the anus, about two inches in diameter, but extending also within the anus for about three- fourths of an inch. This was so distinctly circum- scribed that there was no difficulty in removing it completely. The patient recovered favourably from the operation.] Treatment.—When stricture of the rectum is of a cancerous nature, every known remedy is inade- quate to arrest its progress. A mitigation of suf- fering is all that can be aimed at. Diluent in- jections, combined with opium, conium, or similar remedies, may afford a temporary relief in the ul- cerative stage ;'' but, according to Mr. Calvert, " the greatest advantage is derived from carefully introducing a hollow tube of elastic gum, through which the fteces are drawn off by injecting tepid water." Dilating the passage, with any other view than that of maintaining an outlet for the faeces, he considers quite useless. A soft tent composed of lint, smeared with some mild fresh ointment, will in general answer this purpose. If there be much pain and inflammation, fomenta- tions may be used; and leeches applied in the vicinity of the anus, or over the sacrum. The bowels should be kept moderately open with castor oil, or other mild laxative, which, if it is thouglit necessary, may be combined with the extract of hyoscyamus, cicuta, or opium; but the latter is in general less admissible, because it is more liable to counteract the effect of the laxative, and produce a torpid state of the bowels." (^Calvert, p. 187.) Mr. Salmon is of opinion that, in true carcinoma of the rectum, bougies greatly aggravate the dis- ease. The only palliative means recommended by him, are Keches to the anus, the introduction of a grain or two of opium into the rectum, and perse- verance, night and morning, in injections containing from forty to sixty drops of laudanum. He par- ticularly cautions the surgeon not to introduce the clyster-pipe more than an inch, or an inch and a- half, within the sphincter, lest too much irritation be excited. (P. Go.) [In passing either the bougie or the injecting tube, great care is required, and force must on no account be employed. Mr. Curling mentionsacase ill which the tube passed through the soft carciuo- matons mass, and penetrated the abdomen, causing death in twelve hours. A similar occurrence has come under the cognisance of the writer.] Sir Benjamin Brodie recommends opiate injec- tions, and injections of linseed oil, either in its pure state, or combined with limewater, as useful in allaying irritation; and he gives alkalies inter- nally, either with balsam of copaiba, or otherwise combined. In the advanced stage, he deems the exhibition of opium indispensable to render life supportable, though he fully acknowledges the in- conveniences of it in causing constipation, checking the secretion of the liver, disordering the stomach, injuring the general health, and rendering the pa- tient nervous and irritable. (Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi.p. 239.) Mr. Syme deems opiate injections and the hip- bath useful palliatives. " The patient should be enjoined to abstain from every kind of stimulating food and drink, and also to avoid any exertion of body likely to aggravate the complaint, resting as much as possible in the horizontal posture. The introduction of bougies, and all other operations, not only can do no good, but must even produce an injurious effect." {On Dis. of the Rectum, p. 129.) Great differences of opinion are entertained about the excision of cancer of the rectum. All parties admit the practicableness of the operation in a certain stage and form of the disease. Sir Benja- min Brodie objects to it on the ground of the pro- bability of a relapse from the existence of the dis- ease in parts above the tumor. If even the ope- ration be justifiable, he thinks that it can only be so under some peculiar circumstances, as where the disease is very low down in the gut, and quite in its earliest stage. Mr. Syme likewise condemns the operation: he admits that a considerable portion of the rectum, even to the extent of a couple of inches, may be cut out, without immediately fatal or very bad conse- quences at first; but he asserts, that the patient will derive no benefit fi'om it, and an impulse will be given to the morbid action. " If (says he) there are any cases in which this excision of the rectum has been followed by a permanent cure, the disease could not have been of a malignant nature. He makes an exception of cancer at the verge of the anus. (Op. cit. p. 129-131.) In one case, how- ever, Mr. Mayo removed a portion of the entire cylinder of the rectum, and though it was followed by prolapsus, the patient's comfort is said to have been much increased by the operation : she died, however, in two years afterwards, of abdominal inflammation. Cancer of the rectum was universally regarded as incurable, until M. Lisfranc demonstrated that a considerable portion of the lower end of the rectum could be removed without danger. He commenced this practice under the idea that can- cer was mostly restricted to the mucous coat ; but having been emboldened by experience and anatomical considerations, he afterwards ventured to attack cases in which all the coverings of the rectum were involved. Two conditions, how- ever, are indispensable : I. The finger nmst bo capable of reaching above the limits of the dis- ease, 2. The surrounding cellular tissue must be healthy, so that the bowel, free from adhesions, may admit of being brought down sufficiently low. In the time of Morgagni, the operation was at- tempted by a surgeon, who was unable to com-