NECROSIS, iliico sucli mischief in the bones as terminates in necrosis. [When this disease is the result of scrofula, the cancellated texture of bone is its usual seat. In syphilis the compact tissue is mostly affected, and especially in those bones which are superficial and thinly covered by integuments or mucous mem- brane. Rlieumatism is not an infrequent cause; the tendency of this disease being to attack the fibrous tissues, the periosteum occasionally suffers, and either the inflammatory action extends to the bone, or its nutrition is interfered with. (Slanleij, op. cil. p. 77. Paih, Soc. Trmis. vol. xiii. pp. isn, 207.) Necrosis in scurvy generally occurs in the lower jaw, but, in advanced cases, other bones have been found affected.] It has been already noticed that mercury may itself give rise to the disorder, especiallv in the lower jaw- bone. (See Mbn. dc L'Acud. do Chir. t. v. p. 350. 4to.) This happens either in consequence of mercury having been introduced too quickly into the sys- tem, or because the patient exposes himself to cold, or deviates in some other respect from a proper regimen, whilst undergoing a course of treatment by that drug. Certain necroses of the jaw appear also to have been caused by blows, and the application of acrid substances to carious teeth, or morbid growths from the gums. _ [But a very peculiar cause of necrosis in the jaws IS ttiat produced by the action of phosphorus, in tliose who are continuously exposed to its fumes as m lucifer-match makers. This form of necrosis was first observed by Lorindser, of Vienna, who published a memoir upon it. Heyfelder, of Erlan- gen has specially described the disease from cases lie had seen amongst this class of workpeople at ^''""^^burg. {Arch. Gen. de Med. Oct. 1 845, p. -04.) Bibra has collected over SO cases of it, and tias analyzed the diseased bones, and found "the organic and fatty substances in greater proportion ttian was the case in the healthy condition." The lower jaw is most frequently affected, but the upper IS often attacked : both jaws were implicated in 5 cases out of the 51 recorded by Bibra and Geist. {Unt. and For. Med. Chir. Rev. April 1840.) The subjects of this disorder are generally from 20 to oO years of age. The disease commences with deep- seated pain in the face, very similar to that of tooth- aclie: the gums become spongy, and swell; the teeth more particularly the molars, loosen and ultimately fall out ,• great swelling of the cheek occurs, with much inflammation; abicesses form and burst, dis- charging very fcetid matter, and leaving fistulous openings which lead down to bare bone ; the general health IS usiiallymuch impaired. The bone when re- moved often presents a dead grey worm-eaten ap- pearance, similar to a piece of pumice stone, caused oy the deposition upon its surface of an ill-forined osseous material: at other times, this incrustation does not exist, but the sequestrum will be found embedded ,n a mass of ossifying exudation, which g ves rise to great swelling of the face. No Attempt at reproduction has ever been observed forX iipper jaw, and it is commonly very imperfect for he lower; whilst, according to Mr. Salter, even the scanty repair met with in these cases is not permanent, the new bone becoming gradually ab sorbed. {Holmes' System of Sur(jcry, vol iv ) No other bono is affected by this disease- nt- cordmg to M. Strohl (fc. Mid, do Strasbourg), 325 the vapour of the phosphorus derives oxygen from the air, and becomes converted in J A„J!.i: • acid: this causes softening of he "m° t I T teeth, and so extends to tL alveXp^^Srwh c',! IS the part of the bone usually implicated Tt | ' been stated that the disease only occurs in those whose teeth are carious, and that the phosphoric vapour reaches the sockets through their medium 1 It was formerly supposed, that purulent mattei collected near a bone, might in time become acri- monious, corrode it, and produce necrosis. Hence It was a rule to open such an abscess as soon as its existence was known. But, Weidmann questions, whether there was any real necessity for this prac- tice. No doubt, says he, the preceding erroneous opmion arose from the circumstance of the bones being often found bare, carious, or even affected with necrosis, when abscesses were near them- but this happens because the inflammation, which caused the suppuration, had also extended its effects to the periosteum and bone. He affirms that he has witnessed ulcers, in which the surface of bones bare and uncovered by the periosteum, lay bathed m pus for a very considerable time; yet, beinir dressed with a mild ointment, they continued en- tire, granulations grew from them, and cicatrization followed. He had also in his possession portions ot bones, aficcted with necrosis, which had lain for years in pus: still their surface was smooth, and pre- sented no marks of erosion. If then these pieces of bone underwent no alteration, how much less likely to do so are bones, which are endued with life ' But though Weidmann wisely rejects the doc- trine that pus IS capable of destroying the peri- osteum and bones by any corrosive qualities, he acknowledges his belief, that the matter cf an abscess may by its quantity compress and inflame the adjacent parts, and occasion their removal bv the absorbents. While the periosteum intervenes between an abscess and the bone, he does not see how the latter can be hurt by the pus ; but, when the abscess is copious and lodged between that membrane and the bone, the vessels passing from the former will be destroyed, and either caries or necrosis ensue. The inflammation, arising from the causes which excite necrosis, may be acute or chronic. It is chronic, when it begins and passes through its dif- ferent stages slowly, and when the mildness of the symptoms may lead us to mistake the nature of the case. This sort of.inflammation chiefly happens m debilitated constitutions, and originates from some chronic cause, such as scrofula, syphilis, and scurvy. But, when necrosis attacks the interior of the bone, and the disease occurs in a strong, irritable, plethoric subject, inflammation is imme- diately kindled, attended with most acute symp- toms, severe pain, considerable fever, restlessness, delirium, &.c. Chronic inflammation is more sup- portable, but its duration is longer: acute in- flammation is more afllicting, but sooner comes to a crisis. The part, in which a necrosis is situated, ig afl^ected with swelling. What has been observed, respecting the inflammation, is also applicable to this tumour, which most frequently forms gradually but sometimes with great rapidity. In the first case, the accompanying pain is dull and inconsider- able; in the second, it is violent. The swelling has not, like that of abscesses, an elevated apex. On the contrary, it is so widely dilfuscd, tiiat the'limits