SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION, 63l lion of opiates to the painful part," * and in ] 844 the same idea seems independently to have been originated by Mr. Rynd, of Dublin, for the treat- ment of sciatica and neuralgia. The virtue of the treatment was considered by both Rynd and Wood to be due to the injection being localised to the painful part. Wood especially mentioned that the anodyne should not only be put into the neural- gic part, but, in his opinion, to be really efficacious, "into the spot where you find you can awaken the pain upon pressure." {Brii. Med. Journ., August 28, 1858.) Localisation of the injection being thus deemed so necessary for benefit to accrue, the em- ployment of this method was limited for many years to the treatment of but few forms of pain. In 1858, however, I made a number of comparative ob- servations concerning the action of the anodyne in- jected locally and remote from the seat of pain. These observations were vvitnessed by many inte- rested in this " new therapeutical method," and the experiments were performed in the wards of St. George's Hospital. My chief results are thus condensed by Dr. Brown-Sequard in the Lancet of March 10, 1866. " To him (Mr. Hunter) more than to any other investigator we owe the solid grounding, if not a complete demonstration, of these three propositions. 1. That equal effects follow distant and local injections in neuralgic cases, 2. That by distant injections (in various places) the ill effects of repeated local injections are avoided. 3. That diseases can be treated by this plan which are neither local nor neuralgic." {Lancet, March 10, 1866.) I exemplified this last conclusion by treating delirium tremens, acute mania, melan- •cholia, chorea, lockjaw, &c., by injections into the cellular tissue of the body, and I employed the terra hypodermic method of treatment—which has since been adopted by most foreign countries—to signify the site of the injection. What, it may be asked, are the advantages of this treatment? They are many, and they vary according to the nature of the case for which the treatment may be advisable. One chief advantage is rapidity of action. By no other plan can a soluble drug be made to influence the system more rapidly (unless it is injection into the veins, which is an operation fraught with danger) than when injected into the cellular tissue of the body, nor can it be denied that patients have often been brought under the full influence of a remedy thus adminis- tered long before any decided effect would have been produced by a stomachic dose. Pain may thus be perfectly relieved in a few minutes, the ex- citement of delirium tremens arrested, and sleep even in this intractable complaint be sometimes produced in ten or fifteen minutes. In one patient ■who with puerperal mania had not closed her eyes in real sleep for a fortnight, sleep was thus brought about by a quarter of a grain of morphine in eight minutes. The patient began from that moment to improve. {Case in Queen C'/iarlotte''s Hospital.) 2. Certainty of action is another advantage. The drug thus fairly introduced into the cellular tissue of the body becomes absorbed into the gene- ral circulation, and the pure effects of the absorbed drug follow. By the stomach there is no certainty. * Dr. A. Wood, Edin, Med, and Siirt;. Journal, 1855. The medicine miiy bo unabsorbed, it may be vo- mited, it may be partly absorbed,and partly perhaps follow the egesta through the alimentary canal. 3. The medicine is not chemically acted on by the gastric juice; it is not submitted to digestion as it is when given by the stomach. 4. This plan can be used when the stomach is too irritable to retain any medicine, or food. 5. It can also be used when patients refuse to swallow, as in delirium tremens. 6. And when medicines disagree, and cause headache, sickness, &c., by the mouth, they will sometimes not do so given by the skin. 7. A small hypodermic dose is often equivalent to a much larger one by the stomach. This is the case with strychnia. 8. Larger doses of a remedy can be with safety given hypodermically than by the mouth, because by the latter plan we know not when or whether the whole amount given is absorbed. The class of cases for which this plan of treat- ment is most valuable are those especially of func- tional derangements of the nervous system, and may be thus generally arranged :— I. Those of the cerebral nervou< system, where insomnia is the chief evil to be combatted, in such diseases as delirium tremens, mania, hysteria, me- lancholia, &c., these and other cerebral derange- ments may often be at once checked by a few in- jections of some anodyne drug. The dose much depends upon the amount of insomnia, or excite- ment, or irritation, or depression existing, and also its duration. Morphine, codeine, and narceine will be found to act, not only as hypnotics, but even as nerve tonics in these cases. Morphine may be injected in quarter-grain doses for a mild case of insomnia, whilst as much as one grain may be injected in urgent cases of delirium tremens. The stomach is usually in a most vitiated state in delirium and mania-a-potu, and often quite refuses to absorb and digest either medicine or food, and, as opiates do when given by the mouth, constantly derange the digestion and diminish tlie appetite. We gain by the cellular absorption a double ad- vantage: we rapidly produce the desired effect upon the brain, and do not interfeie with the stomach or the rest of the alimentary canal. lu these complaints, melancholia and others, morphine hypodermically given does not produce the sub- sequent general depression of the nervous system which is so often manifested after it has been taken by the mouth. In delirium tremens and similar cases much time—often days—can be saved of sleeplessness and of ea/taustion, and life is often thus preserved. II. For affections of the spinal nervous system it is impossible to do more than just indicate the class of cases which may and have received relief and been cured by this plan. Painful affections of particular nerves, whether .superficial or deep, of neuralgia, of sciatica, of colic, &c., are but in- stances. The pain of inflammation, as of perito- nitis, may often be checked at once by a full sub- cutaneous dose of morphine; for, as shown by my experiments, the action of this drug is not local- ised to the part into which it is injected, nor, as Mr. Moore, of the Middlesex Hospital, has con- firmed, "is the action chiefly local, but general." For this reason the injection is equally available in cases of spasm, whether local, as in retention of