life. _ The effect of this vapour passes olF within pain. If the patient ia not told what lie is taking. Jie will seldoiii be found to complain that it dis- Hi'iees with him. " Surgeons," says Dr Armstrong {On Typhus, Lend. IKiy, 3rded.), " know the use of opium much better than physicians ; for, by freely using it after operations causing excessive pain, they often succeed in warding oiF serous inflammation." We need not speak of the splints, bandages, or other appliances that may be requisite to ensure rest after various injuries ; nor need we add that, at the surgeon's discretion, some patients may re- quire a purgative, some brandy or soup, some alkalis, some quinine, according to their respec- tive conditions. Purgatives should not be given if they interfere with the rest of the part injured, as the bowels. Everything must in cases admit- ting of it be done to soothe pain by local applica- tions, and especially by moist warmth. The bran poultice, with Dover's powder, may ward off the liist threatenings of peritonitis after delivery. Cotton wool, finely carded, is an excellent applica- tion to parts that have been bruised or chilled. Of course all mechanical conditions contrary to cora- lort must be amended, foreign bodies removed. The threatened part should be elevatfd. What we have said refers to all cases, but wounds in which the skin is divided require special precautions against the decompnsition of the fluids on their surface, which would be a sure cause of ■inflammation. This was pointed out by Garengeot (Chiruiyical Operations, Lond., 1723), and the older surgeons, and by John Hunter. The strict parallelism between a wound and the condition of the womb after delivery, and the common dangers ot both, first from ordinary putrefaction of fluids, and, secondly, from contamination by special septic agents such as the poisons of erysipelas, gangrene, and the like, were specified by Robert Ferguson after Cruveilhier. It was by an obstetric phy- sician (the late lamented Sir J. Y. Simpson) that the greatest impulse was given to the study of the causes of that "surgical fever," which makes greater havoc after operations than puerperal fever does after delivery. {Clinical Lectures on Dis- eases of Women, Edinburgh, 1872, p. 296.) Sir James called attention not only to the necessity of removing clots of blood, but of adopting materials for obstructing arteries and closing wounds that shall not be like setons and provoke suppuration. ■Ue 13 emphatic in his condemnation of those sur- geons who calmly lose patients after great opera- tions, without taking the precautions against septicemia which are now universal amongst obstetricians. Sir James Simpson was followed by another Edinburgh professor, Mr. Lister, who applied to the prevention of inilammation in wounds tlie principles which Pasteur proposed for the pre- vention of unhealthy fermentation in wine. {Etudes "ir le Vm,ses Maladies, etc., Paris, IfSCG.) Some of the fine particles which are seen float- ing in the sunbeams are the spores of minute organisms, which, when developing in the fluids of ne body, g,ve nse to changes resembling the ^mentation caused in sugar by the presence of the growing yeast plant. That this is so, and that the oestructive change.s are not due merely to the presence of oxygen, as Liebig taught, is shown by "e simple experiment of guarding a quantity of ^ "«d or pus with a thick layer of cotton wool im- I'reguated with some volatile vapour inimical to INFLAMMATIOI^. the first twenty.four hours, but the blood will re- main quite sweet under the cotton wool for weeks —clearly showing that the putrefactive agent ia not the oxygen, which of course has free access through the interstices of the cotton, but rather the organic germs which become entangled in the wool and so are mechanically hindered from reach- ing the fluid belo w. Guided by these observations, Prof. Lister in* troduced the treatment of wounds by such anti- septic applications as prevent the access of living germs. The material first employed, and still pre- ferred by him, was carbolic acid. This has the valuable properties of being highly volatile of hindering putrefaction indefinitely by the presence of Us vapour, and of combining with different sub- stances in varying degrees of affinity. Thus water takes up but little and parts with it very readily • resin holds the acid with great tenacity, and 'so' forms a convenient storehouse, giving it off slowly during a considerable period, whilst the fixed oils occupy an intermediate position. Hence, where a temporary but brisk action is required, watery solutions are useful ; where slow and prolonged disinfection is needed, a plaister of shell-lac satu- rated with carbolic acid may be employed • and vvlien, as frequently happens, a free evolution of ttie vapour during many hours is desired, the oily solutions form valuable dressings. Rememberine the points which demand attention in all cases, viz (1) to prevent the ingress of living organisms, and t-; to destroy any such organisms as have already entered, the surgeon will see the necessity for varying the mode of application according to the exigencies of the case. Thus, if a simple abscess is to be opened, the part being covered with a slip of muslin soaked in carbolic oil (1 i„ 5), the knife-dipped in the same -IS to enter the skin through the muslin, another fold of which IS to be at once dropped over the incision so as to allow the pus to escape beneath he veil. A piece of carbolic-lac plaister is now aid over the wound (to protect the part from thl too stimulating effect of the acid, w'hich Tnlw needed nierely to disinfect any air wliich may ap. proach the incision), and covered with oily dress ".gs, winch extend widely round it, and may be changed as often as necessary. Under such treat- men t the granulating walls of the abscess are nod stimulated to fresh production of pus by the presence of putrefying matter, a little serum only escapes for a few days, and the cavity quickly closes with cicatricial tissue. ^ In the ca,se of an amputation more elaborate measures are necessary. Throughout the whole opeiation, from the first entrance of the knife until the nisertion of the.;last stitch, a cloud of carbolised vapour should be made to envelope the part by means of a large stream of watery solution from \ spray-producer. The fingers of the surgeon and assistants and all sponges should be dipped into a like solution, and the knife and other instruments rmointed with carbolic oil. An important element in the system is the use of the carbolised catgut which lorras a convenient ligature, with the mo perty of being altera short time absorbed and so leaving no foreign body in the wound For sutures silken thread soaked in a combination of carbolic acid and becE-wax are more coiivenien as these are not absorbed like the cnfr,