INFLAMMATION. 20 If, however, resolution of the inflammation takes phice, the redness graduallj' diminishes, the cliange progressing, of course, from the circumference towards tlie centre ; and, simultaneoiisl}' wiUi the change in the circulation so indicated, the eft'usions are found to have disappeared, the fibrinous re- maining the longest. At all stages of the inflamma- tion, the inflamed tissue, if macerated, soon breaks down, and is reduced to a red pulp. In severe inflammation cellular tissue very readily Tiiortifics. Tins tendency forms the special morbid character of carbuncle, and is even more marked in the diffuse form of cellular inflammation. In this " the whole cellular tissue, subcutaneous and intermuscular, is found enlarged, grey, or ash- coloured, and distended with blood-coloured fluid or serum, sero-purulent or purulent matter. It is detached extensively from the several tissues which it connects in the healthy state." Between the muscles are long sinuous caverns filled with dirty ash-coloured fluid: " sloughs or mortified shreds are seen here and there hanging from aponeurotic sheaths, tendons, or even blood-vessels ; and while in most cases shreds or filaments of the subcu- taneous or subfascial cellular tissue .are the only traces of its existence, in not a few instances the muscles arc detached from the periosteum, and the periosteum from the bone. These shreds are mortified pieces or sloughs of filamentous tissue." {Craiffie, Elements of General and Path. Anatomy, p. 37. See also Art. Erysipelas.) The appearances of areolar tissue, however, after it has been the subject of chronic inflamma- tion, as, for example, in elephantiasis, are very different. The tissue is thick, dense, compact. It scrunclies under the knife. It is hard and un- yielding, and tears without stretching. If ma- cerated, it is readily reduced to a greyish diffluent pulp. It has lost all its redness, except where it is exposed to the air. In some cases it is uni formly injected with a semi-gelatinous coagulated fluid, sucii as is seen forming the sides and base of old ulcers. In others this secretion is more fluid but it is never true pus, but sero-purulent. A portion of it may have become organised into a cyst. The limits of the diseased tissue are well defined and abrupt. If acute inflammation has supervened on a chronically inflamed part, the characters incidental to the two conditions are combined. For, besides the re-accession of congestion, the tissue is more readily torn than even under ordinary acute in- flammation ; and soft pulpy quagmires are sur- rounded by dense greyish red walls. The tissue, under these circumstances, very readily mortifies. Skin.—On membranous tissues the effects of in- flammation vary somewhat, but both the appear- ances and results have a general analogy to some or other of those observed in areolar tissue. In in- flammation of the skin, the increased redness varies greatly in different diseases, both in intensity and in its mode of diffusion, whether uniform or in patches. Tlie first eflxict of the inflammation is effusion of serum beneath the cuticle, as seen alter the application of a blister, and in the vesicles and bulla; of certain diseases, as erysipelas, eczema, &c. At the same time, a certain amount of fibrinous effusion takes place into, and sometimes beneath, the skin itself, causing its thickening and con- densation. If the inflammation is of long duration, or, still more, if it bo aggravated by repeated irri- tation, the secretion becomes purulent. Under similar circumstiinces the inflammation very com- monly leads to idceration, and, less frequently, to gangrene. Serous Membrane.—-Iht: first change observed in an inflamed serous membrane is "diminution or loss of its transparent and glistening appearance. It becomes opaque, dull, and in some instances dry." {Crai'yie, lit supra, p. 759.) At the same time, red vessels appear, either in isolated spots or. over a considerable extent. They are generally ar- borescent, or parted into minute ramifications. The subserous vessels also enlarge, and can be readily injected. The thickening of the membrane itself has been denied by some pathologists. But, as Gendrin points out, the blending of the serous membrane and its subserous tissue is so gradual that no actual line of demarcation can be raised. He explains that, as this subserous tissue always inflames, serous eft'usion into it constitutes the first stage of the thickening. " In those mem- branes (says he) which are easily resolved into cellular tissue, the least degree of inflammation determines infiltration in all their thickness — that is, a general thickening." This is especially the case with the arachnoid. Not unfrequently air is infiltrated in the subserous tissue. This tissue, being connected with that in the organ which the serous membrane covers, serves as a medium tor the extension of the inflammation to this organ. Hence the viscera usuallj', but not always, partake in the inflammation of their investing membranes ; and the membranes, though less frequently, in that of their viscera. " From the commencement of inflammation of a serous membrane, serosity is effused into its cavit}'. So long as the inflam- mation is moderate, and especially while it occupies only a small extent, the exhaled fluid is soon reabsorbed, and no effusion is found" {Gendrin, p. 70) — a condition often seen in the arachnoid, less commonly in the pleura, and least of all in the peritoneum. The effused serum, in greater or less quantity, soon becomes loaded with lymph, which .either imparts to it a jelly-like consistence, or separates in the form of white or yellowish flakes. A layer of this same lymph, of greater or less thickness, invests the serous surface. As the in- flammation subsides, this layer commonly becomes more or less organised : it shrinks, becomes firm, and adherent to the surface of the serous membrane, and to the similar layer opposed to it. Thus the two serous surfaces become adherent to each other over a greater or less extent; and if the inflammation has been universal, the serous cavity may be entirely obliterated. If, however, the inflammation is of long con- tinuance, or in a person of weakly constitution, the effusion becomes more or less purulent — a change most commonly seen in the pleura. But even then, in favourable cases, the pus is com- monly bounded by fibrin, so as to constitute one or more circumscribed abscesses. This is especially the case in the peritoneal cavity. Ulceration is not very common in serous mem- branes as a result of inflannnation,but is occasionally seen, esi)ccially in the pleura, and less frequently in the parietal peritoneum. It may lead to the escape of the inflammatory eft'usions from the serous cavitv. Chronic uiflammation of n serous membrane causes thickening and increased density of the