SPINE, CURVATURES OF. 621: "5th. In kti^ral curvature nf the spine we Iiave ,1 distinct demonstration that the articuhiting pro- cesses give wa)' more extensively than any of the other parts oF tiie cohnnn. This is evinced by the rot;Uion which the spine makes in its perpendicular axis, at tlie same time that it inclines laterally. The joints of the articulating processes being si mated posteriorly, as well as laterally, the spinal column cannot yield in their direction with- out wheeling partially round; and it is owing to this rotation that the transverse processes, and the ribs, are directed obliquely forward upon the con- cave side, and obliquely backwards upon the con- vex side of the curvature, thus giving rise to a fulness or swelling on the one hand, and a depres- sion or sinking inwards on the other." *■ This is the earliest description I have been able to find of the appearances, to which I desire ' especially to direct attention, and it is somewhat remarkablfe that it has not attracted the notice of any subsequent writer on the subject of lateral curvature. Even Sir Chiirles Bell, v/ho wrote ten years afterwards, and carefully described the ro- tation of the vertebrae as a most important element in the distortion, passed by unnoticed the facts described by his relative, Mr. A. Shaw. To me it appears that the account given by Mr. Shaw of the mode in which these structural changes are induced, affords, at the same time, a satisfactory explaration of the way in which the rotation of the bodies of the vertebrae is produced, and is certainly quite in accordance with my own observations. Tlie iiansverse processes are altered both in direction and form. In their general direction and relations to the soft parts they are altered as a result of the horizontal rotation of the bodies of the vertebrae, so that when th§ curvature is in the lumbar region, the transverse processes in the con- cavity of the curve are depressed towards the alidominal cavity, and in a severe case cannot be felt by external examination; whilst those on the convexity of the, curve project backwards towards the skin, rise to the level of the apices of the spinous processes, and can readily be felt along the outer margin of the spinal muscles, which they also protrude backwards and render prominent. This deviation in direction of the transverse pro- cesses is extremely important in a diagnostic point of view, and enables us to diagnose a curvature in the lumbar region in cases in which no lateral deviation of the apices of the spinous processes exists. The transverse processes, it should also be mentioned, become widely separated from each other on the convexity, and approximated to each other on the concavity, of the curve. The transverse processes also become very mate- rially uttered in,Jorm in severe cases of long stand- ing. They may become attenuated, and project backwards in a curved or horn-like form, with a varying inclination tipwards or downwards — a change apparently produced by the long continu- ance of irregular muscular action; or they may become flattened from above downwards by the nu'chanical pressure nf the superincumbent weight, when from the severity of the curve, one or two of these processes belonging to the lowest vertebrae rest upon the crest of the ilium. * Mcdiro-Chirnrgical Tranmntinm, vol. xvii. London, 1832. See a I'aperon " A I'eniiliarili;in llie. Conformnlion of the fikeletun in llickeis," by Alex- ander Sliaw, p. 407. CLASSIFICATION OP CASES OP LATERAL CUBV.-i.- TURE OF THE SPINE. The arrangement and classification of these cases, with special reference to the treatment to be adopted, ought to be based, not so much upoi>any differences in the form, situation, degree of curva- tin'e, and its anatomical conditions, as upon the relative degrees in which the spinal affection can be traced to depend upon constitutional and local causes, with some reference also to the different periods of life at which the curvature may occur. It is undoubtedly true that the immediate cause of lateral curvature is, as a general rule, purely mechanical, but the associated constitutional con- ditions are so variable and so important—acting as the most powerful predisposing causes—and so materially modify the indications for treatment, that these conditions appear to afford the best and most scientific basis for a general classification of these cases which, therefore, I propose to arrange in the three following classes, viz:— 1st Class.—Cases essentially of constituiional ori-, gin, or in ivhich the constitutional largely predomi- nate over the local causes.—In this class of cases the spinal curvature generally occurs under twelve years of age, is often hereditary, occurring in two or three generations, and several members of the same family are frequently affected. They are generally associated with the strumous constitution in a marked degree, and may be arranged in two series or subdivisions according to the period of life at which they occur, viz: a. Those cases occurring in infancy or early childhood, i.e. under three or four years of age; and, b. Those which occur in childhood from seven to ten or twelve years of age. In the first series there is often no history of hereditary predisposition, and though a strumous diathesis may be feared, such is not clearly indi- cated; the only apparent cause being general mus- cular debility, which may have existed from birth, or have been induced by illness. The children are unable to support themselves in the sitting po- sition, even when a year and a half or two years old, and a lateral curvature of the spine is very readily produced if the nurse should always carry the child on one arm. In the second series there is iisually a history of hereditary predisposition, and the children in their general aspect are decidedly strumous. The deformity often increases rapidlj-, and becomes very severe. These cases are sometimes, but er- roneously, considered to depend upon rickets; the spine alone is affected, and there are no indica- tions of rickets in the leg bones or in the other bones of the skeleton ; no enlargement of epiphy- ses; no pelvic deformity, or rachitic conformaiiju of the skull. There can be no doubt that constitutional causes largely predominate in the production of spinal curvature when this occurs in children under twelve years of age; and these cases, from their natural tendency to terminate in severe and con- spicuous deformity, are of a very unpromising character. 2nd Class.—Cases depending upon cntislitutionnl and local causes in ahoiil ciiwil degrees.—In this class of cases, the spinal curvature generally occurs l)(!twei'n the ages of twelve and sixteen years. Hereditary tendency is not often traceable, but