746 ligatuieg are introduced, nnd by these others and stronger ones are drawn through and tied, so ns to strangulate the whole base. With the view of saving pain and abridging the process as much as possible, they should be drawn with extreme tigiitness. The salivation is most profuse, and the discharges and effluvia very offensive. Some lotion, to correct this as much as possible, may be pre- scribed, and after the separation of the dead part the healing promoted by various applications. Tu- mors situated on the posterior part of the tongue, and projecting from it, may be thus removed, care being taken in introducing the needles to guard with the finger the epiglottis, &c." (See Lisloii on Practical Surgery, p. 250.) When the diseased portion ia favourably situ- ated, and not extensive, Mr. Liston prefers the vulsellum and knife, " there being no great diffi- culty in holding the organ so as to secure any vessel or take other means of arresting the flow of blood." {On Practical Surgery, p. 250.) When any part of the tongue has been ampu- tated the bleeding vessels are to be tied, if pos- siljle ; but when this cannot be accomplished powerful styptics may be applied, and if these fail the actual cautery. When only a piece of the tongue is cut out, in the shape of the letter V, the best mode of stopping the bleeding is to bring the sides of the incision together with a suture, by which plan the deformity will also be lessened, and the union expedited, as was exemplified in a case recorded by Langenbeck. {Neue Biil. b. ii. p. 489.) Rather than suffer a patient to die of hajinorrhage, if the cauter3' or other means fail, the lingual artery should be taken up where it passes just above the cornu of the os hyoides. If the apex be the seat of the disease, it may be removed without much difficulty. The patient should be placed opposite a window where tiie light falls upon the mouth, and the head should be steadied b)' an assistant, when the surgeon grasps the tumor with a vulsellum, and removes the diseased portion with a probe-pointed bistoury to avoid wounding the floor of the mouth. The ranine artery may require a ligature, but any other bleeding may be suppressed by keeping ice in contact with the bleeding surface for a short time. The wounded surfaces usually granulate, and perhaps heal quicker and more agreeably to the patient than if sutures were passed througii to approximate the edges. When the disease is situated in the centre or sides of the tongue the ligature should be resorted to, and the diseased portion strangled with strong whipcord passed through with an ordinary ncevus needle. [ i liis mode of procedure is tedious and painful to the patient, but much suffering may be spared by the division of the gustatory nerve previous to this operation, as recommended and performed by Messrs. Hilton and Moore. If the base of the tongue or its deeper portion should be diseased, the ecraseur must be used, and worked slowly and cautiously until the tongue is extirpated. Tiie hajmorrhage from the lingual arteries will not be considerable, and, according to M. Chassaignac, will be followed by a favourable result. This surgeon removed the tongue at its base by passing the chain of an ecraseur from without through the floor of the mouth, and a second chain to detach tlio tongue from the surrounding soft parts. M. Uiguuli h;i3 removed considerable portions of the TONGUE, DISEASES OF. tongue with cancerous disease nt its base by carry- ing his incision from one angle of the lower jaw to the other, dividing all the intervening parts vertically, and afterwards, by drawing the tongue downwards and forwards through the wound, large portions of it were both excised and ligatured by him. Mr. Arnott and others recommend an incision being made through the floor of the mouth, passing between the genio-hyoid muscles to the base of the tongue, when a ligature may be placed around that portion, or it may be excised if thought necessarj'. Mr. Syme and Mr. Fiddes have both excised the tongue by making an incision through the lower lip, and symphysis of the lower jaw, at tlie same time forcibly separating the two halves of the bone. The two first operations performed by Mr. Syme for removal of the tongue were attended with fatal results. The third, however, proved successful. In the latter case, he thus describes the operation, performed December 29, l[j64:— " Having extracted one of the front incisors, I cut through the middle of the lip, and continued the incision down to the os hyoides, then sawed through the jaw in the same line, and, insinuating my finger under the tongue as a guide to the knife, divided the mucous lining of the mouth, together with the attachment of the genio hyoglossi. While the two halves of the bone were held apart, I dissected backwards, and cut through the hyo- glossi, along with the mucous membrane covering them, so as to allow the tongue to be pulled for- ward, and bring into view the situation of the lingual arteries, which were cut and tied, first on one side and then on the other. Tlie process might now have been at once completed had I not feared that the epiglottis might be implicated in the disease, which extended beyond the reach of my finger, and thus suffer injury from the knife if used without a guide. I therefore cut away about two-thirds of the tongue, and then, being able to reach the os hyoides with my finger, retained it there while the remaining attachments were divided hy the knife in my other hand close to the bone. Some small arterial branches having been tied, the edges of the wound were brougiit together and retained by silver sutures, except at the lowest part, where the ligatures were allowed to maintain a drain for the discharge of fluids from the cavity. " Next day I visited the patient, and finding him in all respects comfortable, inquired if he could swallow. In reply he pointed to a drinking cup containing milk, and intimated that he wished it to be filled ; then, placing the spout between his lips, while his head was bent backwards, he drank the whole without any cough or sputtering. Hav- ing seen this, I felt assuied that the result would be satisfactory, and was not disappointed, as every- thing went on well afterwards. The only incon- venience experienced vvas from the edges of the jaw being occasionally displaced ; but this was easily remedied by an ingenious contrivance of Mr. Wilson, the dentist, who, finding that a silver cap inclosing the teeth was not suflicient for the pur- pose, fashioned a shield of gulta percha, embrac- ing the chin on each side, and secured to the metal plate by a wire. Uiuier an ample supply of nourishment byniilk, soup, and soft solid food, there was a rapid return