SEASEs OF. 617 RECTUM, D] the powdor of oak-p;alls, and of elder-ointment, or hog's lard, contribute to the same beneficial effect. Tlie application of warm water by means of a bidet, or semicupiiim, is also frequently productive of great ease. [The most appropriate purgatives for this com- plaint are those which will relieve hepatic conges- lion or obstruction, and also unload the congested vessels of the intestinal mucous membrane. For this purpose, two or three grains of blue pill, with colocynth and hyoseyamus, will be found eminently useful. This may be followed by a draught containing a drachm of the sulphate of potash, with ten or twelve grains of rhubarb. The sulphates of potash and soda are excellent medi- cines in diseases of the rectum, and their tendency to restrain hfemorrhage is an especial indication for their employment in these cases. The confect. piperis nigri, though in very common use, is for the most part objectionable, on account of its irri- tating properties. It is only adapted to cases ■where there is much relaxation of the mucous membrane and increased mucous secretion, with- out any tendency to inflammation. The same may be said of cubebs and copaiba.] When piles are constricted by the sphincter ani muscle, the pain may often be at once removed, by pushing the swellings into the rectum, and using fomentations, or even the warm bath. When the disease is in a state of inflammation, leeches applied to the vicinity of the anus, and puncturing the dilated haemorrhoidal vessels with a lancet, for the purpose of taking away blood, and the application of cold lotions, are measures occa-. sionallj' employed to procure ease. The usefulness of leeches was particularly noticed by Schmucker. {Vermisuhte Chir. Schrifte.n, b. i. p. 107.) Petit prefers the lancet ; Sir Benjamin Brodie, acupunc- ture, and cooling lotions. [When the tumors can be readily returned ■within the sphincter, this should always be done ; but painful and prolonged efforts to effect it should not be persisted in : they cause great suffering to the patient, and are usually unsuccessful. When the protrusion is recent, it can generally be re- duced, but when it has been down for any length of time, the tissues will be found to have become rigid and unyielding, in consequence of inflam- matory effusion, and even if replaced they will descend again as soon as the pressure is removed.] According to Mr. Hov/ship, when there is " fre- quent hffimorrhage from the veins within the sphincter, with perhaps little or no e.xternal tumor, one of the best means of relief is the metallic bougie, regulated by the patient's feelings, and also by the promptitude with which inflammation and consolidation take place." ,(0/i Dis. of the Loiver Inteslincn, SfC. p. 215. ed. 3.) Of the merits of this practice I cannot speak from experience. I have never found any necessity for resorting to this practice, which is disapproved of by Dupuy- tren, and the generality of the best modern sur- geons, as ineffectual. When the number and size of hremorrhoids are 80 considerable as materially to obstruct the dis- charge of the fieces; when they are severely painful, and subject to profuse bleedings ; when the pa- tient is disabled from following his usual occupa- tions ; and when the above means afford insufli- cient relief, the surgeon should recommend their remoTal. [The methods which have been most generally adopted for the removal of internal hremorrhoida are excision and the ligature. Excision would be the preferable operation but for one serious dis- advantage, the liability to hajinorrhage. In con- sequence of this it is now rarely, if ever, practised, and the ligature is the operation preferred by the great majority of surgeons. Besides these two methods, the extirpation of piles with the actual cautery or caustics, which was practised by the old surgeons, but relinquished by them, has been again introduced, A combination of excision with cauterization has also been re- cently recommended. And in France, the ecra- seur is very frequently used.] It is observed by Sir Benjamin Brodie, that the rule respecting the kind of operation was correctly settled by Sir Everard Home {On Ulcers of (he Legs, 4'C.) : external piles, which are covered by the skin, ought not to be removed by ligature, but by excision. On the other hand, internal piles, which are covered b}' the mucous membrane, ought,_/br the most pari, to be removed by ligature. " The grounds of this distinction are as follow ; the application of a ligature to external piles gives the patient extraordinary pain at the time, and afterwards excites much inflammation, swelling, and disturbance of the general system ; whereas, if they be removed by excision, these ill conse- quences are avoided. After the excision of exter- nal piles, there can be no danger of hajmorrhage, because the parts are entirely within your reach, so that the bleeding vessels can be easily secured ; and though some little inflammation may super- vene on the operation, yet it is not of any real consequence. If, however, you remove large in- ternal piles by excision, there may be copious and even dangerous haemorrhage, since the parts which bleed are out of reach, above the sphincter muscle, where you cannot expose the cut surface so as to be enabled to take up the bleeding vessel. On the other hand, the application of a ligature to inter- nal piles in general causes but little pain, and only a slight degree of inflammation follows; for the mucous membrane has nothing like the sensibility of the skin." (See Brodie in Land. Med. Gaz. vol. XV. p. 843.) The excision of internal piles is liable to be fol- lowed by dangerous bleeding. Encouraged by the advice of Mr. Cline, Sir B. Brodie formerly tried the practice of removing internal piles by excision. In the first case or two, he found no inconvenience follow; but a case soon occurred, in which the pa- tient lost a great deal of blood; in another case, the ha;morrhage was so great, that the patient nearly died; and a third case occurred, in which also the patient lostfln enormous quantity of blood, so that Sir B. Brodie now only wonders that death was not the result. Sir Astley Cooper has relati'd the case of a Scottish nobleman, who perished in this way. On one occasion, Mr. Syme cut away an internal hsemorrhoid, which was partially protruded, and manual pressure was required to be kept up for several hours before the bleeding ceased. (0« Dis. of tliQ Redmi, p. 73.) Petit had a patient with hajmorrhoids, which were supposed to be ex- ternal, but were internal ones tmiporarily protruded, Almost immediately after they had been cut oil', the cut edges were drawn inward. An internal lirenmr- rhage ensued, which could not be suppressed, and proved fatal in less than five hours. The rectum