VARIX. 910 condition ia just established in other vessels. These objections are, however, more apparent than real. The last-mentioned applies equally to all methods of curative treatment. Velpeau thus treated 150 cases before he met with any dis- agreeable result, and many surgeons uf large ex- perience in this country, though employing it, Irequently report no unfavourable consequences. Other modes of compressing the vessel have been proposed. Reynard of Toulon passed a thread behind the vein, and tied it so as to include both the vessel and the overlying tissues. Ricord's method of strangulating the spermatic veins has also been applied to those of the extremities. He passes a needle and thread behind the vessel, and bringing it out through the skin on the opposite side, repasses it by the same openings on the sur- face, but carrying it on its return in front of the vessels, and between them and the skin. The ends of the thread are then tied over a piece of bougie, and the vessel is thus firmly grasped in the loop of the thread, Tavignot used two loops to accomplish the same end, one being tied at either side. The congulation of the blood in the affected vein by electricity was suggested by Ber tani, but has not been found to answer. The puncture of the dilated vein, or the more extensive opening of it, and the extraction of the clot, are methods of treatment of great antiquity Petit, in modern times, thought much of unloading the vein, and Richerand put the method of extrac- tion into practice—a proceeding which may be at- tended with benefit if the dilatation be very cir- cumscribed, but the fear of hemorrhage and phlebitis is vtry considerable. Heister let out " the grumous blood," after having passed a double wax thread under the vessel, and tied it tightly round it. Delpech dissected out the vein, and compressed it against a roll of plaster inserted be hind it. Sanson, imitating Breschet's method of treating varicocele, exerted compression on th vessel by means of a peculiar description of forceps, which he took care to shift in position frequently, so as to prevent any injurious effect on the skin. The difficulty of applying the forceps rightly, especially when the circumvolutions of the vessel are considerable, and the parts much bound toge- ther; the inconvenience attending it, and the un- satisfactory results arising from the subsequent absorption of the coagulum, have prevented the general adoption of this proposal. Colles of Dub- lin compressed the saphena in cases of varix by means of a truss, and others have fulfilled the same end by straps of india-rubber pressing on buttons, the object in either case being to divide the column of blood, and make the valves act. Mr. Startin has described a very ingenious "bar-needle and clasp," for employment in the treatment of varicose veins. The needle, which is sickle shaped at one end, is passed below the vein, and hen drawn through till part of the long stem remains behind the vessel. The portion of the stem so placed is then cut off from the needle, and left, the vein being further secured by having the " clasp" applied in front to the piece of stem, com- pleting an application which, when in silu, resem- bles a brooch—the piece of stem representing the pin. He leaves this applied for forty to si.\ty hours, and by inserting a piece of lint below the clasp prevents it injuring the surface. The injection of varices with various salts which coagulate the blood has attracted much attention' of late years, and is now much followed on the Continent. M. Pravaz, in 1851. suggested the use of similar means for the treatment of aneurism, and the surgeons of Lyons employed it in varix. The perchloride of iron is the coagulant which they era- ployed, and it has as yet given the best results. A siilution of 30° of Baumes' hydrometer, or at the specific gravity of 1"2G, is found to answer best. A very small glass syringe, graduated on the barrel, and having a very closely-fitting piston and a minute canula, which screws on to the barrel, is the instrument used for the introduction of the solution into the vein. The amount thrown into the vessel can be exactly calculated by the scale on the barrel. Before performing this little operation, some make their patients walk about, so as to dilate the vessels. A bandage is applied to the limb some distance above the point to be operated on, and this is left on the limb for some time after the injection has been performed. This bandage serves the double purpose of rendering the veins prominent, and causing the column of blood to be stationary, so that the clot which ia formed is not driven away in the torrent of the circulation. The canula, viith its small trocar, is then introduced into a prominent vein previously fixed by the fingers of the left hand. The tro- car is withdrawn, and the syiinge, which has been carefully filled with the solution, and having its piston so screwed down that all air is excluded, is attached to the canula, and the quantity of solu- tion required is thrown into the vein. Haifa turn of the piston is then made backwards, to withdraw the fluid from the point of the canula, which is then removed, and a small piece of adhesive plaster is put over the aperture in the skin. The opera- tion must be repeated on several of the more pro- minent dilatations, and it is possible that the injec- tion must again be repeated in a few daj-s. Experiment has shown that if the solution be thrown into a pouch on a vein, the coagulation will be confined to the pouch, while if a straight part of a vein be chosen, the coagulum will extend in the direction of the heart, and the capillaries both, and the end aimed at will be better secured. Several operations may be performed on the same limb, or on both limbs on the same day, if necessary. It need hardly be said that if any amount of phlebitis be present in the veins, the injection cannot be per- formed. The quantity of the fluid introduced will vary with the size of the vessel. From two to fifteen drops is about the range. Ten drops is m general sufficient for the largest vessel. Care must be taken to prevent any of the fluid escaping into the areolar tissue, either when we are intro- ducing or withdrawing the canula. If the vein be transfixed, the introduction of some of the fluid into the cellular tissue will be sure to occur. U e can satisfy ourselves that the canula is within tne canal of the vessel by the direction it assume^ by the flow of blood through it, and by its feeling Iree. Till we are assured that the canula is thus placed the piston should not be screwed down. I" three-quarters of a minute, the coagulation will l'a^ e taken place, but there is plenty of time before th« occurs to inject before the canula becomes blocUrt up. To obviate all fear of obstruction fron the congulation of the blood flowing mto th«/~ M. Lenoir recommends the use of a second canula which accurately fits into the first, imd wnic.,