. NECROSIS what similar principles, has been employed by Oraefe of Berlin witli great ndvantngo lor several years. A tract by Schwalb (Be Serra Orbiculari, 4to Berol. J 819.), giving nn account of it, was sent to me by the late Dr. Albers, a little before his death : it is turned by means of a handle, which projects horizontally from the cutting part ot the instrument, and it has a frame or fulcrum on which it works. Professor Thai's rotation-' saw may also prove of service.' (See Edinh. Med Jouni. No. lx.\viii.) Messrs. Weiss, of the Strand lately lent me a most perfect kind of wheel-saw' worked by machinery-, and calculated to act through a narrow space, on bone deeply placed If the cutting forceps are used, the point of one l>lade is mtroduced into a cloaca, and a portion '15 c , " <iiiu <i poriion ot the new bony case divided. In this waj-, the bridge ol bone between one cloaca and another may often be cut with great facility, and the aperture then enlarged to the necessary extent. _ When the sequestrum is found to be very large It will be necessary to expose more of the surface' ot^ the bone by incisions. In such a case VVeidm.mn recommends applying a trephine to the upper and lower parts of the cavitv, and then cutting away the intervening portion of bone with the saw or gouge. But, there can be no doubt, tliat a more prudent way would be to go on with the enlargement of the aperture in the bone, at the place where the first perforation took place if the sequestrum presented itself equally well there • because, by proceeding in this manner, the sur- geon might discover that the dead fragment could be taken out, without so great a destruction of bone as is caused in the other mode; and, if this were not to be the case, no harm is done, as the necessary removal of bone can be continued. [In all operations for necrosis, great care should be taken to avoid removing more of the new bone than is absolutely necessary, as it is not repro- duced ; and, if the bone operated on be one of the lower extremity, the limb may be so much weak- ened as to be incapable of supporting the weight of the body.] When the bone, which includes the sequestrum, IS a recent production, its soft state may some- times enable the operator to perform the needful excisions with the bistoury alone. When several sinuses "exist in the limb, each may be dilated, in the manner which seems most advantageous. Sufficient openings having been made into the cavities including the sequestra, the next object is to extract these dead portions of bone. In ac- complishing this part of the operation, Weidmann particularly advises two things : first, that no piece of the sequestrum be left behind; secondly, that no injury be done to the membrane, which lines the cavity in which the dead bone is lodged. I his author observes, that there are examples in which the vicinity of certain parts impedes the surgeon from making an opening in the bone, large enough for the extraction of a voluminous seques- trum in an entire state. In this circumstance, he recommends the sequestrum to be broken in pieces, or, as I should prefer, divided with any convenient means, and the fragments separately removed. The cutting of the sequestrum in its centre so ns to make two pieces of it, is here right, on the principle of not destroying too much of the new bony case. Sometimes, when neither end of the sequestrum is uncovered, it mav ?p ^ ! and extracted, by pushinV it'Zw, fva TI^.Tn' wards, so as to enable the surgeon to t.T I ^' extremity of it, ,W,ich may thef b^ J", d h"an elevator, or [he finger. When neither end cn luis be reached, the opening may be enhirg d upwards or downwards, and the sequestrum di- vided with a trephine, small saw, or cutting forcens n necessary, a central piece of it may be thus removed, so as to make room for the extraction of each extreme portion of it separately. [Where iiicisions into the soft parts cannot safely be made for the extraction of necrosed bone in consequence of the vicinity of a joint, a blood- vessel or other important structure, dilatation of the fistulous sinuses may be attempted by means of sponge tents, &c., and occasionallv the bone may be withdrawn through them without necessi- tating an operation.] It is not to be dissembled, however, that cases presen themselves in which amputation affords he only chance of saving life. !„ fact, it some- times happens, that the cavities, in which the sequestra are contained, communicate with those of the neighbouring joints, which then become hlled with matter, and caries attacks parts of the bones to which the necrosis does not extend On some occasions, the dead pieces of bone are verv numerous, and each has a separate cavity • while in other instances, the sequestra lie so'deeply! that a passage for their extraction cannot be pru- dently attempted. Sometimes, nature fails to carry the reproduction of bone to the extent necessary for the cure, or the new osseous cover- ing gives way, and immense deformitv and vast irritation, followed by profuse abscesses, are the consequences. Sometimes, also, a necrosis is complicated with another disease in its vicinity. Lastly such may be the reduced state of the patients health and the particular condition of he necrosis use f, that the constitution cannot hold out during the whole time, which would be requisite for the detachment of the sequestrum Under circumstances like these, amputation is' necessary and ought not to be delayed. Dr. Mott had a case, in which the head of the femur was so involved in a necrosis, that ampu- tation at- the hip-jomt was necessary. As Mr Mayo observes, "When the articular end of a cylindrical bone is necrosed, it excites disease of the joint, which precludes restoration. In a knee which I amputated, half of the outer condyle was necrosed, and in process of separating into the articular cavity." (//„,„„« Palhology, p. 35 \ [Necrosis of the cancellated tissue of the head of the tibia IS occasionally met with, and should be altected. I he trephine must be used to perforate the bone, but many difficulties attend its successful performance. The wound made for the removal of a seques trum should, immediately after operation, be tlio- roughly plugged with oiled lint, care being taken tha the cavity in the bone is also filled bv it • thelint should be left until loosened by suppur.-ltion' when a poultice may be applied, and this method ot dressing the wound must be daily practised. By filling the wound with lint, the bleeding after operation is controlled ; it prevents the cut edaes of the iiitogument from uniting, and thus insures a