SCROTUM; gation of the spermatic chords, it was necessary to arm.iige them after the operation in a tortuous form, and some difficulty was experienced in fixing the testicles in their proper situation. The wound was completely cured in about two months ; and the paiient returned to Perpignan, where, in the course of a few weeks, he became indisposed, and died. On opening the body, a very large abscess was detected in the liver. Must this be regarded as a consequence of the extensive wound, inflicted in the operation, or as the result of the patient's excesses after the wound had healed ? If the for- mer view be adopted, it is another confirmation of tlie frequency of visceral inflammations and suppu- rations after severe local injuries, or great, opera- tions; a subject on which much interesting matter may be collected from the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery ; the papers of Messrs. Rose and Arnott in the Medico-Chir. Trans, of London; and the great work of Cruveilliier, on Pathological Anatomj'. With regard to the nature of the tumor, Del- pech contends, that it presented an example of true elephantiasis of the scrotum; a point on which many practitioners will disagree with him. The following circumstance relative to the structure and composition of the swelling, is noticed. The skin of its anterior part was not less than three inches thick ; and the inequalities, observable upon every portion of it, were here greatest. Not- withstanding the discolorations, which tlie skin exhibited in places, where it was most deeply affected, the incisions in it bled very little ; few vessels of considerable size were met with; and not a single varicose vein. The cellular tissue was manifestly every where distended ; its lamellae were lengthened, and included very large cells ; most of them were semi-opaque, and of a white pearl colour, which change is ascribed to an inflam- matory process that had thickened them. The areolas of this tissue, besides being very dense, contained a serosity, a part of which flowed out in the operation, while the rest, in consequence of its greater consistence, did not escape from the cells, thoiugh they were opened. Both contained a large proportion of albumen, and were coagulated by heat or acids. Blood-vessels were seen ramifying in this tissue 5 but they were not numerous, and only of small size. The lymphatics were plainly discernible in great numbers, and of considerable diameter. In front of the spermatic chord, some fat was fioundj the only situation in which it pre- sented itself-5 and here its accumuliition made Delpech suspect, for a little while, th*t there was ftn omental hernia, with a very thin transparent sac. The cremaster seemed to haye preserved the spermatic chord completely from the disease. To the preceding history. Professor Delpech has annexed the case of, what he terms, an ele- phantiasis of the female sexual organs, removed by ■^l"-Talrich, of Perpignan, The disease, which originated just below the nions veneris, hung down as low as three inches above her knees, and unless It was pushed towards the naval, rendered the evacuation of tlie urine difBcult. It involved the labia, especially the right one ; and the clitoris, which was considerably elongated by the weight of the swelling, was concealed under its root. I do not adopt the view taken by Delpech of this ewelling, which he contends was that of elcphanti- ftsis. Whoever will compare the description of the disease with the history of elephantiasis (sea Cood's Study of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 626, ed. 4) will see few points of resemblance between them. [For the best and more recent information on this subject, the reader should consult the writings of surgeons who have practised in warm climates where this disease is of frequent occurrence. Mr' F. H. Brett, of the Bombay military service, pub- lished an account of this hypertrophy of the scro- tum, and relates seven cases on which he had operated, saving in each case both the penis and the testicles. {A Practical Essay on some of the PrincipalSurijical Diseases of [ndia, byF. H. Brett, lO'JO, p. 94.) The operative procedure recom- mended by him, consists in making an upper, lower, and two lateral flaps, which may be thus briefly described. The patient being placed on a table in the position for lithotomy, the legs well separated by assistants, the tumor is raised with the intention of facilitating the return of the venous blood. The posterior flap is now formed, while the tumor is in this position, by making a curved incision several inches in extent on the neck of the tumor in the perineal region, the con- vexity forwards, and dissecting it backwards to- wards the anus—the tumor being brought down, the anterior flap is next formed by cutting two slightly converging incisions over the neck of the tumor in the inguinal regions; these are to be joined by a transverse one a few inches below the supposed site of the root of the penis, for which it is to assist in forming a covering. The lateral flaps are rapidly made by inserting a lon^ catling or double-edged amputating knife under the skin, and cutting from within outwards. The point of the knife enters where the upper flap terminates, and makes its exit at the level of the lower flap at its outer margin. A flap is now cut of sufficient size, on each side, to cover the testicles and meet in the median line without tension. The next step of the operation is to incise the tumor boldly, in order to find the testicles and chords, which are deeply buried in the diseased mass. These are to be separated carefully from the rest of the tumor, reflected upwards, and entrusted to the hands of an assistant. The penis and prepuce now claim the careful attention of the operator. An incision is to be made around the orifice of the prepuce, and from this another longitudinal one backwards towards the pubes through the tumor, in the supposed line of the concealed penis, till it reaches the centre of the anterior flap. The outer layer of the prepuce and the skin of the penis, together with the hypertrophied areolar tissue, are now to be dissected away. Great care must be taken to save the inner layer of the elon- gated prepuce, which is afterwards to be drawn back over the penis to form a covering to that organ. The prepuce will be found sufficiently long and wide to form, when reflected, a complete integu- ment for the penis, for which purpose it answers adniirabii'. The mass of the tumor may now be rapidly detached from the lateral and posterior llap-i and from the perineal region. In adjusting the flaps by suture and adhesive plaster, it will be readily understood that the lateral flaps should contain and cover the testicles, and be joined to each other in the median line—that their upper margins should be adapted to the upper flap and to the root of the penis—their lower m.irgins are to be adjusted to the posterior flap. The con-