, ; i,-!' organic acids, as the oxalic, formic, and butyric Is, which transude into the blood, or occur there ;i the result of defective oxygenation. I'lie foundation of the lactic acid or rheumatic , ithesis is often laid in dietetic errors, more espe- ci.iUy as respects the staminal principles of food necessary for the nourishment of the body, for the due oxidation of the materials in the blood and tissues, and for the maintenance of animal heat. Too frequently no attention is paid to the propor- tions of food derived from the four great groups which furnish these principles—the protein bodies, the fats, the carbo-hydrates, and the mineral sub- stances, either actually or relatively to the age, sex, temperament and habits of the individual. The moment an infant is deprived of the mixture fur- nished by nature in the breast-milk, which too often occurs prematurely, all is apt to be left to chance. Some children are fed upon a great excess oi' animal food. Others are allowed to exclude or are debarred from fat and all oleaginous matters. Attempts are sometimes made to nourish a child wholly, or nearly so, on amylaceous matter, with or without sugar. Dietaries are often defective in . the essential saline and mineral constituents of the . blood and of the animal tissues. These errors most frequently become habitual. Many of them : tend to the development of an excess of lactic acid in the alimentary canal or in the blood, and ; produce a disturbance or arrest of the metamor- : phosis of matter, whereby substances which, on a . due regulation of diet and exercise, would pass out , of the system as urea, carbonic acid and water, occur not only as lactic acid but in the form of ' lithic acid and its compounds, formic acid, oxalic acid, and other acrimonious and poisonous sub- stances. There can be no question that a pre- disposition to the lactic acid diathesis is often hereditarj-, nor that it is also frequently produced by errors of diet and exercise, taking their rise in infancy; hence the frequency of mal-nutrition and the rheumiitic affections which result from it, many of which become surgical diseases, in children and young persons. Rheumatism in its various forms and grades demands the attention of the surgeon, inasmuch as it gives rise to various affections of the joints and limbs which induce rigidity or lameness. From this cause there may be thickening and permanent enlargement of the structures forming and surround- ing the joints, as of the periosteum at the articular ends of the bones, the tendons of the muscles in- serted into them, and the subsynovial membrane. After a time, the cartilages and bones alter in shape and become enlarged, the ligaments become stretched, a mechanical impediment to motion is produced,and the joints are severely disabled, result- ing in a gradual absi.rption of the cartilages. There is at first chronic effusion, but subsequently the synovia becomes absorbed and the capsularligament thickened. Suppuration or ulceration of the car- tilages occurs very seldom, but the inter-articular cartilages of the knee-joint, of the wrist, and of the lower jaw have been absorbed {Gurrod), and the iigamentum teres of the hip and tendon of the biceps destroyed and even removed. In prolonged cases, the synovial membrane sometimes droops into tlie articular cavity, and as remarked hy Dr. Fuller, arising probably from some alteration of this kind, a dense ligamentous substance is soon inteipo.scd between tlic articulating surfaces; or :ATISM. 539 small irregularly-shaped cartilaginous or bony bodies, sometimes vascular, are found, either loose within the joint, or attached to it by pedicles formed of thickened synovial membrane ; the denuded surface of the bones rendered smooth by attrition, become white, glistening, and ivory-like in appearance {"Jrthrilc C/ironiqueSeche" Elmnia- tiun); there is also, in some instances, a pulverated deposit of lithate of soda, occasionally containing also lithate of potassa, ammonia and lime. To these consequences of the malnutrition resulting from long-continued prevalence of a lactic acid con- dition of the blood, may be added the more definite hip-joint disease, or morbus coxai ienilis, or nodo' shies, sometimes affecting all the larger joints, which become semi-flexed and almost aiikylosed, rendering the patient a cripple; and occasionally affections of the skin occur, of the testes, of the periosteum, and of the aponeuroses generally. (See art. Joints, Diseases OF.) Lactic acid is also associated with some cuta- neous eruptions. Without giving in his adhesion to the lactic acid theory of rheumatism, Dr. Begbie pointed out in 1050, the connection of Erythema Nodosum with the rheumatic diathesis. {Conlrib. toPract. Med.,hy J. Begbie,M.D. 1862.) The close analogy subsisting between gout and rheumatism, and the intimate association of their symptoms in many cases, has led some pathologists to refer both to the morbid effect of the retention of urinary constituents in the blood. (See arts. Uric Acid; Uraemia.) Dr. Hughes Bennett [Clinical. Lectures on the Pritic. S[ Prac. of Med.), Dr. Copland, and others, consider uric acid the materies morbi of rheumatism as well as of gout. In the one case its excess is supposed to be derived from the primary, and in the other from the secon- dary digestive processes. In both diseases an arrest of the metamorphosis of organic matter and defec- tive secretion are admitted to occur. There are nu- merous cases in surgical practice presenting a com- bination of the characteristics of rheumatism and gout, very generally denominated " Rheumatic Gout," a term which has been greatly objected to by many pathologists. Such a connection or fusion of the two diseases as the term implies was not recognised by the older practitioners, and is denied by many moderns, but chemical pathology tends to establish and explain such a connection. Recent chemistry seems to say that pure uncomplicated rheumatism is never associated with lithate of soda deposit or chalk stones, and Dr. Garrod never found an excess of lithic acid in the blood in rheumatic affections, although this is a constant occurrence in gout. Nevertheless, when fever occurs in a rheu- matic subject, it is accompanied with a great excess of lithates in the urine ; and cases of rheumatic gout, not resembling either disease as a whole, but partaking of the nature of both, are explained by Dr. Front and others by the fact of the concurrent action of lactic and lithic acids in the system. This constitutional diathesis is important to the surgeon also, inasmuch as it occurs as a complica- tion in those scrofulous affections so frequently coming under surgical treatment, both in hospital and private practice; and it is often attended with disease of the heart. Dr. Todd remarks—" I have now so frequently met with instances of diseased heart in young persons, not traceable to an actual paroxysm of rheumatic fever, but, nevertheless, sliowing evident niaiks of a rheumatic diathesis,