48 temperature, nor does the urine resemble that of acute rheumatism. After variable periods of time the acute symptoms subside, leaving the afifected joints and tendons, especially the teudo Achillis, subject to nocturnal aches, and very painful after exertion. The diagnosis of this disorder is of some conse- quence to the reputation of the surgeon. The prognosis is always favourable; the eyes, especially, soon recover themselves. Malarious, Inlenniltent, and Neuralgia Inflamma- tion. Neuralgia, ^c—We have enumerated malaria as a cause of local inflammation, and have laid Stress on the fact that in dysentery and catarrho- rheumatic ophthalmia this should be well weighed in the treatment. Some of the greatest triumphs of the healing art are manifested when the prac- titioner can step in, and by no roundabout or tedi- ous method guiding an abnormal process to a safe termination, but at once, as it viere,puloeris exigui jucUc, cut short the whole phenomena of the disease. " In the treatment of fevers by the ordinary routine," says Torti (quoted by Alibert, Traite des Ficvres pernicieuses, Fark, 1809), "the physician acts as a looker-ou at the disease and the servant of Nature ; but in the treatment by cinchona he acts as master of the disease and teacher of Nature" For on the solid principle, citrationes morham ostenduni, the use of bark or quinine not only cuts short many malarial diseases, but is ac- cepted as the first and most emphatic evidence of their real nature. The second test usually ac- cepted as a note of malarious disease is interrait- tence and it is this which in this country usually leads'to the trial of quinine. During the year 1870 I was attending a young gentleman of 15 with'inflammation of the bowels ; great pain ten- derness below the navel, beat of skin 102 , and vomiting. He had suffered from a similar attack some months before, which yielded to the ordinary remedies, especially opium and fomentations. But in this second attack there was a provokmg ten- dency to relapse, preceded by chills ; and m the intervals the pulse kept above 100, and the skin not under 101°. It soon became obvious that the relapses came on each fourth day ; accordingly quinine was given in suiRcient doses, and the disease was cut short. Dr. Arthur Farre saw the case in consultation with me. Here there was no evidence of any malaria ; it was the intermittenco only which guided probably to the true ^'ause and cerfainly to the true remedy. T le late Mr C. H. Moore (Med.-CMr. Trans, vol. 1.) gives two cases of periodic inflammation of the knee joint, pain, tenderness, and effusion; in one case an agueish complication was undoubted ; both were more or less benefited by quinine, bir Henry Holland (Medical Notes and Rijledions, itA ed. Lond. 185S, p. 290) gives instances of periodic cough, vomiting, thirst, tonsillitis and ol ep.staxis connected with ague and cured by bark. Ihe whole train of neuralgic disorders are famous foi their intermitting character, and this is per sej ■ ground of suspicion of malarious origin or cou p - cation in whatever disease it may he o^^"'-^''^'^ ^ is to say, that if a patient be affected by.""''^^^' any loc^l inflammation is liable to take an intermi - tent character. It must be ""'ed, howeve , tl a not all malarious inflammations are intermittent, loi yet all intermittents malarious. The common acute hectic, caused by deep-seated abscess, is deciueai) quotidian. Moreover, some malarious altectious are INFLAMMATION. periodic, and have definite intervals; some intermit" tent, with irregular intervals; and some obstinately recurrent, after long uncertain intervals. In the third place, malarious inflammations are universally attended with lowness and prostration, and are no whit relieved by depletion. Hence Dr. Macculloch speaks of them as not " genuine " inflammations. But as we have shown, it is an error to speak of inflammation as a thing to be universally combated by depletion, or to suppose that " autiphlogistics " are all of one debilitating sort. Fourthly, mala- rious inflammations haunt certain places, and often alfect several persons at a time. Lancisi describes an epidemic inflammation of the air-passages, vary- ing from the merest coryza to strangulatory pneu- monia (Historia Epidemice rheumaticce quce per ht/e- mein anni 1709 vagata est, Romje, 1711), which raged at Rome in the severe winter of 1709. " It is clear as day," he says, "that in the present epidemic the fever is the chief disease, and that the inflammations are, as it were, its symptoms ; for these recur at stated periods, and end generally with those crises which are wont to happen hi tlie fevers called by the schools essential." Fifthly, whilst there is no local affection wh'cli may not be complicated by malaria, those which most decidedly betray this connection are the neuralgia?. Here we must distinguisli the inflammatory neuralgia, of which ordinary sciatica is an example, which may affect the highly fed and plethoric, and be greatly benefited by purgatives, and the pure functional neuralgia, in which there is pain in nerves, with no local change. In the malarious neuralgia, there is evidence of some local change, though seldom more than some vascularity, with serous effusion at the seat of pain. Tliis is exem- plified by the common brow ague, or neuralgia of the supra-orbital nerve ; by neuralgia of the infra- orbital or anv other nerve. It is distinguished by the four points of diagnosis already mentioned :— curability by quinine, intermittence, prostration, and endemicity. But any very painful, obstinate, and asthenic inflammation, especially of nerve or tendon or periosteum, whether rheumatic or not, is amenable to quinine. Sixthly, we must enumerate the visceral engorgements and inflam- mations—of the brain, lungs, liveivspleen, stomach, &c —which occur in the course of the remittents of hot climates, and of which we have little ex- perience here. In the " pernicious fevers of Italy pneumonia is a common occurrence, large portions of lung becoming infiltrated with exuda- tion. In the course of a hasty visit to the Ospe- dale dello Santo Spiiito at Rome, I learned from Professor Baccelli, that in the malarious pneu- monia the chlorides do not absent themselves from the urine, and that the exudation is more inclined to liquefy than to undergo heputization. To complete the outline of the relations of malaria to local inflammation, we may add that wounds are aliected by it. C. L. Dumas narrates of the wounds that were treated in the hospitals of Lynns during the revolutionary civil war, that if diey were severe, and especially if lacerated, and the patient had suffered much loss ot blood, and Inid been inhaling the air of foul camps or marshes, the patients were liable on the 10th or 11th day to be seized with remittent fever. Ihe symptoms were shivering and great restlessness, followed by intense heat and fever, coming m daily paroxysms, with distinct remissions ; the wounds meanwhile \