to the under side of the buflTy coat. Hence, Piorry, who was the first to observe this appearance, but completely misinterpreted it, seeing that he referred it to an inflammation of the blood itself (hajmitis), and established the doctrine of py»mia upon it, termed this form of buffy coat critsla granulosa. It really consists of nothing more than large accumulations of colourless corpuscles." (Firchoiv, Op. cit. p. 155.) So far concerning the visible properties of the blood. Now we must mention the changes in composition which have been detected by modern chemists. We must refer to the article Blood for a detailed account of the Composition of this Fluid in Disease and Health. Here we must remark in starting that, so complex is this fluid, and so little at present does our knowledge penetrate into the mysteries of its composition and changes, that it is dangerous to be too positive as to the facts, and still more so, to rely so much upon any inferences derived from them as to let them form the basis of treatment. The following summary of the changes in blood during inflammation is given by Becquerel and Rodier: —The specific gravity is alwavs below the natural standard; the globules alwaj's dimin- ished; the fibrine invariably increased; an in- crease, which commences with the invasion and declines with the subsidence of the inflammation • the amount of which is proportionate to its in- tensity and severity; which exists in greatest de- gree in acute articular rheumatism, yet exists in all cases, whether inflammation be the original disease, or whether it spring up as an accidental complication ; which is not diminished by blood- letting, nor disappears until the inflammation sub- sides. The cholesterine and fatty matters are increased, the albumen diminished. {Pathological Chemistry, Trans, ly G. T. Spear, M.D., Lond. 1857.) (See Hyperinosis.) But whence the fibrine.? whence the hyperi- nosis? Various views on this point will be found in articles Blood, Hyperinosis, &c., to which must be added Virchow's doctrine, that excess of fibrine does not arise from primary changes in the blood,—oxydation, for example,—but that it, as well as a superabundance of colourless corpuscles, is the work of the lymphatic glands. " That the fibrine in the. blood itself," says Virchow, "is produced by a transformation of the albumen is a chemical theory which has no other evidence in Its favour than the fact that albumen and fibrine have a strong chemical resemblance, and that on comparing the questionable formula for fibrine ^ith the equally questionable formula for albumen. It IS very easy to imagine how, by the abstraction ot a couple of atoms, the transition from albumen to fibrine might be effected. But our bein^ able in this manner to deduce one of the formulfc° from the other, does not afford the slightest proof that an annlogo.is transformation occurs in the blood tt may possibly take place in the body, but even then It would at any rate be more probable that Lm'^r^'ru''"'''"'^ '-^'"^ f'-om tnem the fibnnowas conveyed away into the blood % means of the lymph." Arinc generally, «r«- occurs in the body, eHends to the blood, sua to l.e regarded as an c.m-etiou from Ike blood, 'tZt\ ^""^ r^'"^>'°"-' " Whilst it hod pre- ?'o slybeen the custom to regard the altered com- INFLAMMATION. 17 position of the blood in inflammation, as a con- dition existing from the very outset, and especially denoted by a primary increase in the fibrine I " says Virchow, "have, on the contrary, shown the causes to be an occurrence depending on the loc-il inflammation. Certain organs and tissues have inherent in them, in a higher degree, the power of jjroducing fibrine, and of forming the increase of large quantities of fibrine in the blood, whilst other organs are by far less adapted for its produc- tion. I have, moreover, pointed out the fact, that these organs which with especial frequency exhibit the peculiar conformation of a so-called phlogistic state of the blood with a local inflammation, are generally abundantly provided with lymphatic vessels and connected with large masses of lym- phatic glands; whilst all these organs which either contain very few lymphatics, or in which those vessels are scarcely known to exist, do not exercise any influence worth naming upon the amount of fibrine in the blood." The brain con- tains no Ij'mphatics, or nearly none ; in inflam- mation of the brain the phlogistic crasis is not niet with ; —the respiratory organs are provided abundantly with lymphatics, and it is in inflam- mation of those organs that the bufty coat is most evident. (Op. cit. p. 162.) Lymph contains a Jibnnogenous substance ; a substance difi'ering from ordinary fibrine in that it requires exposure to the air, more or less prolonged, before it coagulates. Hut this is a substance which is foimd in the blood, and which communicates to that fluid its own slowness of coagulation, especially in inflam- mations of the respiratory organs. The ordinary slow coagulation of inflammatory blood is thus according to Virchow, due to the admixture of the slowly coagulating imperfect fibrine brought in by the lymphatics ; and whilst, in some cases, the blood is remarkably slow in coagulating, possibly even a week,—in others there, are °two coagulations, one early and one late. Altogether, with regard to hyperinosis, Virchow concludes that an increased supply of lymphatic fluid is intro- duced into the blood, and that the matters which are afterwards found in the blood are not the pro- ducts of an internal transformation of its consti- tuents, and that therefore the original source of the librme must not be sought for in the blood itself but in those parts from which the lymphatic vessels convey the increased supply of fibrine." The above, then, are the constitutional symp- toms present in a typical form of inflammation. Section 4:.~General account of progress and results 0/ i?iflammation.—We liave selected as the type of acute inflammation a case of injury by which the nutrition of some part is deranged, occur- ring in a patient who has irritated the injured part, and whose blood is in such a state that inflammation takes the place of repair, properly so called. All the local symptoms of inflammation are developed — heat, pain, tenderness, redness, swelling, and im- paired function; and all the constitutional symp- toms, as feverisliness, dry skin, thirst, quick pulse, and the remarkable changes in the blood and urine that have been described. But acute in- flammation can neither persist indefinitelv, nor exist long without leading to important results- and the results which may ensue are these: ' The leading phenomena of inflammation are hyperamia, i.e. lilood-vcssels turgid with blood and exudation. Theoretically, it is supposed that c