VISION. 1003 retina is vertical and sharply defined. On exami- nation with tlio ophthalmoscope, we may find both optic discs healthy or hyperaemic, but never any morbid change confined to one half of the disc only. These two forms are most frequent, and arc observed in the course of tumors, of apoplexv with hemiopia, of diabetes, &c. The morbid changes whicli cause the hemiopia are situated on one side of the brain. We infer, if loss of vision of the entire retina follows, that these changes are no longer coji- iined to one side of the brain. Hemiopia after apoplexy remains stationary in man}' cases, and blindness need not necessarily follow. Tumors and periost'tis, at or near the chiasma, ma}' give rise to any of the above or subsequently to be mentioned forms of hemiopia. The hemiopia caused by changes about the chiasma is often fol lowed by loss of vision and not unfrequently by recovery of the functions of one optic nerve, the hemiopia remaining stationary for years. (2) Loss of vision of the outer half of each retina (of the right half of the right, of the left half of the left eye). This form, as regards vision, is the least troublesome. (3) A very rare form is paralysis of the inner half of each retina. It has been observed in the course of intracranial tumors. 6. Night blindness (hemeralopia) is an anomaly characterised by a sudden impairment of vision, amounting in rare cases to loss of vision, as soon as the quantity of light decreases beyond a certain point, while for the function of the healthy eye that amount of light is still sufficient. Persons suffering from this affection, in full daylight often enjoy normal, or nearly normal, vision. Night blindness varies in degree, and frequently in the two eyes of the same person. The dilated and sluggish pupil, and tbe want of contractility of the ciliary muscle, with insufficiency of the internal recti muscles, observed in many cases, seems not to be owing to paresis of the third nerve, since the application of tincture of opium to the conjunctiva causes active contraction of these parts. In rare instances only the region of the yellow spot is affected, a dark brown cloud obscuring the object, which when held opposite lateral parts of the retina, is distinctly recognised. Red, blue, or violet light is not perceived so readily as green, yellow, or white light. If this affection appears suddenly following exposure of the retina to bright light, it may continue for months, e. g. until winter, and return again in spring. In fresh cases, or after a good night's rest, it does not appear in the forenoon, though the day may be dull; while after mid day, with the same degree of light, it becomes felt. The result of an ophthalmoscopic examination is negative ill many cases. Choroido-retinitis and its effects, or hypersemia of the optic disc and retina, may be found. As causes are mentioned—(1) Various form.s of choroido-retinitis and intra and extra-ocular morbid changes, affecting first the peripliery of the retina. In these cases the night blindness is a forerunner of amblyopia or amaurosis. (2) S:urvy, of which it may be the only symj)tom; ague. (.^j) Kxposure, especially if frequent, of the retina to direct or reflected sun or moonlight. It has appeared as an epidemic among sailors, and soldiers, tlioiigh not all exposed to the same causes may have suffered from it. It is more frequently observed in spring. Treatment (see treatment of the various forms of choroido-retinitis). If occurring during or after ague, one grain doses of camphor, three times daily, have removed it. Complete exclusion from light (if following exposure to this agent) for from one to five days, and good nourishment, though not preventing a relapse, cures it for a time. 7. Snow blindness is observed at the beginning of winter in many persons, and in animals exposed to the white reflection of the snow. It may reduce vision to perception of light. It soon subsides spontaneously, and has been known to act bene- ficially in cases of anaemia of the retina. 8. Amaurosis or amblyopia, from over-use of the eyes through fine work, microscope or tele- scope work, or from sudden exposure to strong light (lightning). The region of the yellow spot is the part mostly impaired. With the ophthalmoscope we may find choroido- retinitis. Exposure to strong light has even given rise to ophthalmitis of the exposed eye. In other cases no changes are discoverable within the eye with ophthalmoscope. Anomalies of vision from extra-ocular, and especially from cerebral causes, often present no marked objective symptoms beyond the impair- ment of vision. The eye, whose vision is dis- turbed, may appear quite healthy, or there may be but slight alteration of colour of the optic disc. For the prognosis and treatment of such cases it becomes necessary to examine the other functions of the body, so as to obtain a clue to the seat, &c., of the lesion which has implicated the optic nerve-fibres. The following are symptoms which frequently precede or accompany cerebral lesions which give rise to impairment or loss of vision :— Headache.—This in itself is no guide as to the cause and seat of the lesion which may have given rise to impaired vision. It may precede the latter for years, and is attributed to morbid changes in the dura mater. It is a symptom which frequently appears during or previous to impair- ment of vision, as the result of disturbed men- struation, and also during congestion of the cere- bellum. Anajmia and atrophy of the optic disc of both eyes is the change which finally is observed with the ophthalmoscope. Vomiting.—We should ascertain what kind of vomiting tliere has been, whether of bile Cthe age of the patient attacked by this kind of voniiiiii.r^ as a rule, varies between eighteen and thirtv), or of blood (the age of the patient varies between forty and fifty) ; whether there has been obvious cause for it; whether it has appeared after meals, or at any other time. It may be a reflex action, which ceases as the ocular changes progress, or it may be connected with morbid changes about the medulla oblongata, or at the roots of the eighth nerve. Vomiting and headache, with amblyopia or amaurosis, as a rule, are signs of cerebral disease. InHannnation of the optic disc of both eyes is the morbid change frequently found on ophthalmo- scopic examination. Giddiness is often complained of for a long period before any le.sions of vision occur, especially by persons suffering from heart disease, with in- termittent pulse, from rigid arteries and from deratigement of circulation by cerebral cliangcs.i