INFLAMMATION, to therapeutics, that " it is most difficult to as- certain the connection of substance and virtue," and to apply this in practice ; that this cannot be learned tl priori ; and that " the practice of medicine is reduced to experiment, and this not built upon well-determined data, but upon ex- perience resulting from probable data." His theoretical view of the nature of inflamma- tion is, we conceive, this—making allowance for the circumstance, that it is not easy to find in Hunter's writings on this difficult subject any general proposition which is not elsewhere con- tradicted wholly or in part. He hated definitions, and declared that you might thereby bring toge- ther a thousand things that had no connection with the subject. He believed that a " principle of life " exists both in the solids and fluids of the body, diffused over the whole of them, " making a necessary constituent part of them, and forming with them a perfect whole, giving to both the power of preser- vation and the susceptibility of impression." This matter he believed to be identical with that of the brain, and continuous with it, and serving as a mode of communication and bond of sympathy between all parts of body and blood, and enabling each to affect and be affected by the other. Life thus existing as an entity combined with the body, and yet distinct from it, is supposed by Hunter to be endowed with, as it were, intel- lectual and moral faculties ; for it takes cognizance of impressions from witliout, and sets going vari- ous operations or " actions" for definite purposes for the good of the body in which it resides. It may '-take alarm," " feel sympathy," "call up the powers of the constitution." It may have "an object" or purpose—in the situation "of the blood, for example. By its means " the whole powers or materials of life may be called into the vital parts or citadel, whilst the outworks are left to themselves "—as in the signs of the beginning of fever. It has "a consciousness of imperfection," or feels " the stimulus of imperfection "—" which produces a new action—the action of restora'ion." It appears capable of comprehending " necessity for there is a " stimulus of necessity " which, according to Hunter, the blood obeys when it coagulates in the veins of a mortified limb—the necessity in this case being clearly that of doing an action for the purpose of hindering the patient from bleeding to death. Alteration in structure by injury or by disease supplies the stimulus of nnperfection ; the parts injured or diseased not benigable to pursue their natural mode of action, are obliged to set to work at actions of restora- tion. "Strength and weakness of the constitu- tion, or of parts, are synonymous terms with a greater or less quantity of animal life, or living principle joined with powers of action." Strength is always better than weakness. Yet " too much strength might act with too much power, be- coming unmanageable under disease that ex- cites action. " On the other hand " strength lessens irritability." It is essential that " the powers and actions should be well proportioned." oimple injuries require simple modes of restora- tion, which are union by the first intention, &c., and are imt inflammatory, and do not call 61 t.ne powers of the constitution to assist in the re- covL'ry. Wounded parts in contact may "mutually «grce n„t to inilame;" or " by being in contact. there is a mutual harmony which prevents their being excited to inflammation." "Inflammation is not a disease, but a salutary operation, conse- quent on violence or some disease." Yet, though it is a "mode of cure by changing a diseased process into a salutary one," it may be occa- sionally " a cause of disease." " Inflammation is an action produced for the restoration of the most simple injury in sound parts, which goes beyond the power of union by the first intention." It is "a disturbed state of parts, which require a new but salutary mode of action to restore them: to that state wherein a natural mode of action alone is necessary." It is a sign of powers, and of necessary powers." So much for the purposes, or, as Hunter calls them, " motives " of inflammation. Now for its nature. It is " an increased action of that power which a part naturally possesses." In "healthy inflam- mation it is probably attended with increase of power." " The act of inflammation would appear to be an increased action of the vessels." This increase of action is evident, not only in the solids, but in the blood, where it produces the sizy coat. It may be doubtful " whether the disposition for inflammation and the change produced in the blood arise from a real increase of animal life, or whether it is only an increase of a disposition to act with the full powers which the machine is. ilready possessed of." " It appears to be cer- tain," says Hunter, " that it is either one or the other." In his text he "suspects "it to be the latter; but in a note says, "It is reasonable to suppose that there is really an increase of animal life ;" and he supports the latter view by this argument. Breeding women have sizy blood. Breeding women require greater powers than, usual. " It would appear necessary for an animal whenever put into a situation where greater powers are wanted, to have those powers increased." Therefore they are increased in breeding women. Therefore, the sizy blood of breeding women " should not be called inflammatory blood, but blood whose powers of life are increased." The coagulation of blood may show its strength or weakness. A firm clot with cupped surface shows strength, whereas when it is soft and " lies squat" in the dish it is weak. Hunter repudiated all " humours ;" and in his system " sympathy " played the part that conta- minated blood does in more modern times. The blood is a living thing ; coagulation is its action, as contraction is of muscle. The coagulable lymph (fibrine) is the most, important element of- the blood. Blood being alive, a thin layer of it can unite with the living surfaces of a wound, and unite thorn to each other. The arteries are the agents in "every internal operation in the machine respecting growth, natural repair, and secretion." Any cause which produces stoppage of blood in the capillaries may be a cause of inflammation, but it docs not follow that stoppage of blood is the essence of inflammation. Tlie capillaries in this process are eiilarijed, but this is more than a "com-- mon relaxation," it is " an action in the parts to produce an increase of size to answer particular purposes," " an action of dilatation." The effects of inflammation are in their in- trinsic nature salutary ; as adhesion, which unites divided parts; suppuration, which is u