i 990 VENESECTION, flammation, though frequently no evident disease of the vessel through which it has passed can be distinguished. When inflammation of the absorbents hiippens, in consequence of iiritation, tiie part of the vessel nearest the irritating cause generally suffers most, while the glands, being remotely situated, are not so much inflamed. The treatment of the preceding case consists in keeping the arm perfectly quiet in a sling, dressing the puncture of the vein with any mild simple salve, covering the situation of the inflamed lym- phatics with linen wet with the saturnine lotion, and giving calomel and saline purgative medi- cines. When the glandular swellings suppurate, poul- tices should be applied ; and if the matter does not soon spontaneously make it way outwards, the surgeon should open the abscess. (See Abernelliy's Essay on this subject.) 4. Injlammation of the Vein.—When the wound does not unite, the vein itself may inflame. This affection will vary in its degree, extent, and pro- gress. One degree of inflammation may only cause a slight tliickening of the venous tube, and an ad- hesion of its sides. Abscesses, more or less exten- sive, may result from an inflammation of greater violence ; and the matter may sometimes become blended with the circulating blood, and produce dangerous consequences, or the matter may be quite circumscribed, and make its way to the surface. If, however, the inflammation should fortunately produce an adhesion of the sides of the vein to each other at some little distance from the wounded part, this adhesion will form a boundary to the in- flammation and prevent the entrance of pus into the circulation. The effect of the adhesive inflamma- tion, in preventing the extension of inflammation along membranous surfaces, was originally explained by Mr. Hunter. In one case Mr. Hunter applied a compress to the inflamed vein above the wounded part, and he thought that he had thus succeeded in producing an adhesion, as the inflammation was prevented from spreading further. When the in- flammation does not continue equally in both direc- tions, but descends nlong the course of the vein, its extension in the other direction is probably pre- vented by the adhesion of the sides of the vein to each other. (See Ol>s. on the Ivjiamination of the Internal Cauls of Veins, in Trans, of a Sac. for tlie Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knoivledye, vol. i. p. J8, &c.) More information on this subject will be found under the head of Veins. Mr. Abernethy had seen only three cases in which an inflammation of the vein succeeded ve- nesection. In neither of these did the vein sup- purate. In one, about three inches of the venous tube inflamed, both above and below the puncture. The integuments over the vessel were very much swollen, red, and painful, and there was a good deal of fever, with a rapid pulse and furred tongue. The vein did not swell when compressed above the diseased part. In another instance, the inflam- mation of the vein did not extend towards the heart, but only downwards, in which direction it passed as far as the wrist. The treatment is to lessen the inflammation of the vein by the same means which other inflam- mations require, and to keep the a.ffection from spreadiug along the membranous lining of the Vessel towards the heart, by placine a compress over the vein, a little way above the puncture so as to make the opposite sides of the vessel adhere together. Mr. Abernethy conceives a case possible, in which the vein may even suppurate, and a total division of the vessel be proper, not merely to obviate the extension of the local disease, but to prevent the pus from becoming mixed with the circulating blood. Were such a proceeding deemed right, I think that Sir B. Brodie's method of cutting the vessel would be best. However, I have never heard of any case in which the practice has been adopted. As for the scheme of tying the vein above the diseased part of it, the severe effects frequently following this method must, as Mr. Dunn has reminded me, render it less eligible than an incision. In the case of an inflamed vein. Dr. Chapman states that nothing is so efficacious as blisters ; a practice said to have been fir.^t suggested by Dr. Physick. (See A fatal Case of InJUimmation of the Vessel from Veneseclioji, in Philadelphia Joum. Feb. 1824.) Some time ago I was favoured by Mr, Howship with a view of the state of the parts in a case where a lady had died after an inflammation of the vein of the arm, brought on by venesection; the veins were considerably thickened, and in some places quite solid and impervious. (See the subject of Phlebitis, in the article Veins.) 5. Inflammation of tlie Fascia of the Forearm, or diffuse Inflammation of the Cellular Membrane.— Sometimes, in consequence of the inflammation arising from the wound of the lancet in bleeding, the arm becomes very painful, and can hardly be moved. The puncture often remains unhealed, but without much inflammation of the surrounding integuments. The forearm and fingers cannot be extended without great pain. The integuments are sometimes affected with a kind of erysipelas ; being not very painful when slightly touched, but when forcibly compressed, so as to affect the inferior parts, the patient suffers a good deal. The pain fre- quently extends towards the axilla and acromion, unaccompanied by much swelling. These symp- toms are attended with considerable fever. After ' about a week, small superficial collections of matter take place in the neighbourhood of the elbow-joint. Opening these superficial abscesses, however, is often inadequate to the complete discharge of the matter, which is sometimes originally formed be- neath the fascia, in the course of the ulna ; and its pointing at the upper part of the arm depends on the thinness of the fascia in this situation. The collection of pus descends under the lower part of the detached fascia, and a depending opening for its discharge becomes necessarj-. This being made, the patient soon gets well. In these cases the vein is not inflamed ; but sometimes the glands of the armpit and just above the elbow swell. The integuments are not much affected, and the patient complains of a tightness of the forearm. Matter does not always form, and the pliability of the arm after a good while gradtt- nlly returns again. Mr. Watson relates a case which was followed by a permanent contraction of the forearm. Mr. Abernethy was of opinion, that a similar contrac- tion of the forearm, from a tense state of the fascUU may be relieved by detaching the fascia from the tendon of the biceps, to which it is naturally con- nected. Mr. Watson seems to have obtamea