40 INFLAMMATION, He pointed out the facts that many of these fibrinous concretiona were formed during life, in the parts where they were found after death, and such he called auiocldhonousi but that others were not formed at tlie spot where they were discovered, but were brought from distant parts, having been carried away in the stream of the circulation. Thus, for instance, vegetations on the mitral or aortic valves might be detached and disintegrated, and borne away by the arterial current, till they arrived at some remote vessels, as the cerebral arteries, there causing obstructions which led to softening of the brain, or to an artery of the extremities, giving rise to mortification of the foot or leg. The local autochthonous clots receive the name of thrombi, and those which are conveyed from remote parts are called emboli. Virchow put his theory to the proof by introducing into the vessels of living animals different animal substances, portions of clots from dead arteries, plugs from veins, and pieces of muscle; he also employed for the same purpose pellets of elder-pith and pieces of caoutchouc. His results may be expressed in his own words:— " From the introduction of animal substances or elder-pith, violent pneumonia resulted, beginning with inflammatory hyperaemia and soon throwing out fibrinous exudations into the lungs, which either underwent purulent degeneration or gan grene. With the progress of these changes to- wards the circumference, pleurisy was soon deve- loped, first pouring out fibrinous, clotted, and tenacious exudations over the affected portion of the lung; next, rapidly attacking the other side of the chest with enormous increase of hyperffimia, it produced extravasations into the parenchyma of the pleura and copious watery and bloody exuda- tions into its cavity, with a great tendency to gangrenous metamorphosis. On the aflFected part of the lung the pleura mortified, afterwards it tore, and pneumo-thorax supervened. The whole scries of phenomena developed themselves in less than five days." Since Virchow's discovery and the explanatwn -which he offered, a great number of observations have been made confii-matory of his views. Dr. Richardson, in 1865, drew attention to the fact that the fibrinous concretions often found in the large vessels after death, were sometimes produced during life, and were the cause of serious and even fatal symptoms, but it appears that this most acute and able physiologist disapproved of the words thrombosis and cmholi, and does not allude to this condition as a cavise of inflammation, or other dis- ease than gangrene or asphyxia from obstruction. He refers to the writings of Dr. Wm. Gould, in the Phil. Trans. 1684, who treated of polypi of the heart, and advocated the doctrine of the_ transpor- tation of minute fragments of the concretion. {Dr. Richardson on the Coayulation of the Blood, Lond. 1858, containing a reprint of the author's essay on Deposition of Fibrin during Life.) Dr. Bennett published in the Monthly Journal of Medicine of April, 1850, a case shownig the relation between obstruction of the arteries and softening of the brain. Dr.W. S. Kirkes, in a paper published in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions for 1052, On some of the principol efects resulting from the detachment of fhrinoiis deposits from the interior of the heart and their mixture with the circulating blood, suggested, as the result of his observations, the possibility that fibrinous con- cretions of the cardiac valves might be dissolved during life, producing obstructions of certain in- ternal as well as external organs; and in a similar manner, by simple admixture with the blood, might induce phlebitis, typhus and other analogous blood- diseases. He gives the details of three cases in which death ensued from softening of the brain, consequent on obliteration of one of the main cerebral arteries by a mass of fibrinous material, apparently derived directly from warty growths on the left valves of the heart; and in two of these cases coagula were also found in the iliac and femoral arteries, and in one of them in the renal. He refers to some preparations in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, showing the connexion between vegetations on the cardiac valves and local concretions in the arteries of the body, and he states that out of twenty-one cases in which he observed deposits in the spleen, kidneys, and other parts supplied with blood from the left side of the heart, he found cardiac disease in every instance but two. The mere fact of so large a number of cases of so-called capillary phlebitis in internal organs being diitinctly associated with the presence of fibrinous material on the valves of the heart is considered by Dr. Kirkes as suflicient to suggest a very close relation between these two morbid states, more especially as in all the cases there was an absence of any other condition likely to induce a poisoned state of the blood. Dr. Kirkes thus developed his views on embolism :— " The view, however, which I have ventured to take is, that the deposits in the various organs are the direct mechanical results of the arrest of solid particles of fibrine detached from some part of the heart or arteries, and too large to traverse the minute capillar}' canals to which they are brought by the circulating blood. By the obstructum which their arrest occasions, they may induce coagulation of blood behind them, while by their mere presence, they may act as local irritants, and so induce secondary processes of inflammation and suppuration, like any other foreign body. In either or both of these ways maybe produced the various appearances characteristic of these singular deposits. In a fatal case of aneurism of the abdominal aorta, several patches of capillary phlebitis wereexcited in one of the kidneys, though for the origin of tliese there seemed to be no other explanation than that afforded by the existence of fibrine abundantly de- posited in laminated masses within the sac of the aortic aneurism. It is easy to conceive that portions of such fibrin might be broken up, mingled with the circulating blood, and subsequently arrested within the capillaries of the kidneys or spleen." (Medico- Chinirgical Transactions, \o\. xxxv. p. 281.) Virchow in his Cdlnlar Pathologic, published m 1858, claims the priority of discovery of the phe- nomena of embolism, and in re'ercuce to the con- nexion between the presence of fibrinous concretions in one part of the body and the existence of nitlam- mation in other and remote parts, he thus writes : " Thus we see that as a rule all thrombi in the peri- phery of the body develop secondary obstructions and metastases in the lungs. I have long been m doubt whether I ought to consider the metastatic in- flammations of the lungs altogether as embolic, because it is very diflicult to examine the vessels in the small metast;itic deposits, but I am more and more convinced of the necessity of considering this