ture and injection, as in ordinary hydrocele. I explorntory puncture should ))e made with a grooved needle, or fine trocar and canula, when the liiiid obtained will at once indicate the nature of the swelling. Occasionally a collection of fluid will be found beneath that part of the tunica vaginalis which is reflfcted over the epididymis, or, more rarel}', bn- tween the serous and fibrous coats of the testicle. To this condition, which may simulate to some e.xtent cystic disease of the organ, the terra of encysted hydrocele of the testis has been given. M. Gosselin has entered very fully into tlie develop- ment and history of these cases. {Arch. Gen. de jMed. t. xvi. 1848.) Sir Benjamin Brodie and Mr. Curling have also recorded examples of this uncommon aflFection. The treatment is by punc- Hydatid Cysts of the Testicle are exceedingly rare. Sir A. Cooper, Larre}', and Dupuytren have each met with cases which they believed to be of this nature. Velpeau, however, considers that none of them are sufficiently authenticated to be accepted witliout reserve. (Diet, de Mtd. vol. xxix. p, 490, article Testicule.) Dermoid Cysts, Several instances are on record in which cysts containing fostal remains, such as liair, teeth, bone, sebaceous matter, have been found in the testicle and in the scrotum. Most of them were noticed soon after birth, and were, no doubt, congenital. {Ollivier, Arch. Gin. de Med. t. XV. p. 540.) Velpeau excised the testicle of a man, aged 27, for a swelling which had existed from birth and was made up of foetal remains : the testis itself was healthy, but somewhat atrophied. {Gaz. Med. de P«ns, Fe'vrier, 1840.) In these cases excision of the tumour or of the whole gland must be practised.] [Fibrous Disease of the Testicle is very rare, and consists in the formation of fibrous tissue in the •substance of the testis, which ultimately replaces the secreting structure, and converts the organ into a mass analogous to a fibrous tirmour of the uterus. The disease is painless and progresses very ■slowly ; the gland becomes extremely hard and heavy: although enlarged, its shape is not injured, and the epididymis is small and wasted. On sec- tion, the tumonr is dense, firm, and resisting, but sometimes its texture is arranged more loosely, and is infiltrated with thin serous iluid. Under the microscope it is seen to be made up exclusively of [larallel bundles of fibres interlacing each other in ;ill directions. Cruveilhier has fignred an example of this in his A nutomic Putholo(jl(jue (livraison v. plate i.) which R ecurred in the practice of M. Marjolin. Mr. ■J ravers has related a case in the Med. Chir. Trans. (vol. xvii.), and there is an excellent specimen in the museum of St. Mary's Hospital which was re- moved by Mr. Lane.] [Cancerous Disease of the Testicle. This disease lias received a number of appellations as— 7umt Sarcocele ; Medullary Sarcoma ; Medullary Cancer of the Testicle; Ftmyns Ilaimatodes'; Funpoid disease of the Testicle; Fulpy Testicle, 4-c. Carcinoma of the Testis. Although malignant disease of the testis is not nearly so common as was formerly supposed when most other enlargements of the organ were confounded with it, yet its occurrence is by no means rare, vox, n. TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE ^Qo All the several forms of cancer have been oc- casionally met with, yet the soft or encephaloid variety is by far the most frequent. It commences with an enlargement of the testicle, accompanied by very slight, or perhaps not any, pain. The swelling is at first smooth, firm, and elastic, not tender on manipulation. Its shape is somewhat pyriform or rounded, the epididymis remaining free from disease. Its growth is generally rapid, but sometimes it increases slowly. The deposit m:\y take place in separate masses, or it may be diffused more uniformly throughout the gland, in- filtrating the secreting structure, which ultimately disappears under the pressure of the morbid growth. As these cancerous masses increase they form ir- regular projections on the surface of the testicle, and are so soft as to yield under the pressure of the finger and produce an ill-defined sense of fluc- tuation. A puncture into one of them gives exit to blood, or to the semi-fluid brain-like matter so characteristic of soft cancer; under the microscope this presents cells of every form, shape, and size, which are abundantly supplied with nuclei. Some- times a glairy fluid, very similar to that found in cystic disease, and more or less stained with blood, will escape. As the disease advances, the veins of the scrotum and cord become turgid and large; sharp pains occasionally are felt i-n the gland which shoot up into the groin, and there is much discom- fort from the weight of the tumour. Severe aching IS olten experienced in the lumbar region from can- cerous deposit in, or sympathetic enlargement of the glands in that part; sometimes these will com- press the vena cava or iliac veins sufficiently to cause oedema of the lower extremities, and they may give rise to considerable pain along the spinal column. The skin of the scrotum becomes distended, often •ed and cedematous, the spermatic cord thickened anda httle fluid generally collects in the tunica vaginalis, but in less quantity than in the inflam- matory aftections. The inguinal glands are nearly always enlarged, in some instances at an early period of the disease, but not, as a rule, until the subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum is involved In extreme cases the tumour, by its size, will cause destruction of the skin and protrude through the scrotum, but it is rare to meet with this condition ihe fungoid excrescence itself is not painful to the touch, although it may be productive of great suf- fering. A fo3tid sanious fluid escapes from the ulcerated surface, and attacks of ha;morrhage take place, under which the patient eventually succumbs or dies worn out by exhaustion and suHering. ' This disease may be met with at any period of lile, but IS most frequent in young subjects; some instances are recorded where it has occurred in in fants It IS very rare for both testicles to be at- tacked, but Its concurrence with cancerous disease of some other part is not uncommon. There are but few examples of the epididymis being primarily nfl-ccted, but it is not unfrequentir involved by extension of the disease from the bodv of the gland. ^ The rapidity of growth is very uncertain. Gene- rally the organ attains a considerable size within a few months, or even weeks, after the swelling is first noticed, but in some exceptional cases several years have elapsed before the disease has caused inconvenierice. The swelling is liable to great va- riation in size; it does not increase steadily ntid