SURGERY. C5S most enterprising surgeons, whose services were ever exerted for the benefit of mnnkind: need I say, that it is here my wish to express admiration of the public services of Clot-Bey, that extraordinary in- dividual, by whose meritorious exertions in Egypt medical science is returning to a land, once her cradle, but from which she had been an exile more than a thousand years ? (See Compte rendu ties TravailV de I'jScole de Mcdecine d'Ahou-Zabd {Eiiypte), etc., par Clot-Bey, 8vo. Paris, 1833.) We next come to the epoch when, by the union and arrangement of scattered facts, the science truly arose. Hippocrates, born in the island of Cos, four hundred and sixty years before the common era, collected the observations of his predecessors, added the results of his own ex- perience, and composed his first treatises. In the hands of this great genius, medicine and sur- gery did not make equal progress. The former reached a high degree of glory. Hippocrates drew up the history of acute diseases in so masterly a style, that twenty past centuries have added ' scarcely anything to the performance. But sur- gery was far from making the same approach to perfection. The religious veneration for the as3'luma of the dead, and the impossibility of dis- secting the human body, formed an insurmount- able obstacle to the study of anatomy. An im- perfect acquaintance with the structure of animals, reputed to bear the greatest resemblance to man, could only furnish venturesome conjectures, or false inferences. These circumscribed notions suf- ficed for the study of acute diseases. In these cases, the attentive observation of strongly-marked symptoms, and the idea of the operation of a salutary principle, derived from remarking the regular succession of such symptoms, and their frequently beneficial termination, enlightened the physician in the employment of curative means; while surgery, deprived of the assistance of ana- tomy, was too long kept back in an infant state. Whatever praises may have been bestowed on those parts of the works of Hippocrates particu- larly relating to surgery, and which amount to six in number {de officina nedici; de fracluris; de capitis vulneribus; de articulis vel luxatis; de u/ceribus; de fislulis), when compared with his other acknowledged legitimate writings, they ap- pear only as rough sketches by a great master. Excepting the fragments collected or cited by Galen, we possess no work written by any of the successors of Hippocrates until the period of Celsus; which leaves a barren interval of almost four centuries. In this space lived Erasistratus, as well as Herophilus, celebrated for the sects which they established, and particularly for having been the first who studied anatomy upon the hu- man body. Celsus lived at Rome in the reigns of Augus- tus, Tiberius, and Caligula. lie appears never to have practised the healing art, on which, how- ever, he has written with much precision, ele- gance, and perspicuity. His work is the more precious, inasmuch as it is the only one which gives us information, with regard to the progress of surgery in the long interval between Hippo- crates and himself. The four last books, and especially the seventh <ind eighth, are exclusively allotted to surgical matter. The style of Celsus is 80 elegant, that he is regarded quite as the Cicero of medical writers. Notwitlistanding he wrote at Rome, his surgery was entirely that of the Greeks; for, in that capital of the world, physic was then professed only by persons who had either come from Greece, or had received in- struction in the celebrated schools of this native soil of all the arts and sciences. Passing over the interval between Celsus and Galen, I shall not dwell long on the latter, who was born at Pergaraus, in Asia Minor, and came to Rome in the reign of the Em.peror Marcus Aure- lius, where he practised surgery and physic about the year 165 of the Christian era. (Oakni Opera omnia i 1521, ed. Aldi, 5 vols, in fol.) These two sciences were at that time still united, or rather the possibility of completely dividing them had never been conceived; and, though some writers of much earlier date speak of the division of physic into dietetical, chirurgical, and pharma- ceutical, no such distinction had been followed in practice. As Galen had been a siu-geon, or more probably a general practitioner, at Perga- mus, he continued the same profession at Rome; but, being soon attracted, by the predominating taste of the age in which he lived, to studies which more easily accommodated themselves to the systems and dazzling speculations of philoso- phical sects, he afterwards neglected surgery, which strictly rejects them. His writings prove, however, that he did not abandon it entirely. Hia commentaries on the treatise of Hippocrates, Be Officina Medici, and his essay on bandages, and the manner of applying them, show that he was well versed even in the minor details of the art. Besides, it ia known that he paid great attention to pharmacy; and in his work upon antidotes (chap. 13) he tells us himself that he had a drug- shop in the Via Sacra, which fell a sacrifice to the flames which destroyed the Temple of Peace, and several other public edifices, in the reign of Commodus. To Galen succeeded the compiler Oribasius, ^tms of Amida (who lived towards the close of the fifth century), Alexander of Tralles, and Paulus yEgineta—so called from the place of his birth, though he practised at Rome and Alexan- dria, Paulus collected into one work, still justly esteemed, all the improvements which had been made in surgery down to his own time. He con- cludes the series of Greek and Roman physicians, and may be looked upon as the last of the an- cients, unless it be wished to let the Arabians have a share in the honours of antiquity. "He ap- pears," says Portal, " to be one of those unfor- tunate writers to whom posterity has not done justice. It seems as if he had been decried with- out having been read; for if pains had been taken to examine his works, he would neither have been regarded as a mere copyist, nor been called the " ape of Galen," with whom he does not always coincide. Nay, in some places, he ventures to oppose the doctrines of Hippocrates. He was perfectly acquainted with the practice of the an- cients; and when he agrees with or differs from them, it is not from a spirit of contradiction, but because the reasons which led him to take one side or the other appear to him well founded," {Portal, Hist, de I'Aiiat. etc. t. i. p. 123.) All now agree, that surgery is much indebted to him. (See It. A. Voc/el, Dc Pauli Aiyiiictai Meritis in i\lrdi- cinarii, imprimisque Chirurgiam, 4to. Gott. ITGf!.) Afterwards the downfall of surgery followed that