NECROSIS, was replaced by new bone, and covered by the pericranium. (Fresse Mtdicale, \0S7. No. 57.) Heine attaches considerallo importance to the dipliie in the formation of bone, and bel ioves that this tissue, with either the pericranium or the dura mater, can completely restore the deficiency in the skull: he considers that the diploe, or the mem- branes, alone, are insufficient to accomplish this. Wagner states, that apertures, however made in the skull, are filled up by a fibroid mass, which is derived from the skin, dura mater, and bones, and is intimately connected with the pericranium and dura mater : into this small osseous growths may extend from the edges of the bones. When the piece removed does not comprise the whole thick- ness of the skull, it is completely restored by new osseous formation. He narrates a case by Guens- berg, of a woman who lived 78 years after trephi- ning : at her death, the opening was covered in by fibrous membrane, which was adherent to the dura mater, and ramifying on its surface were spicula of bone.^(Op. cit. p. 135. Neiv Svd. Soc, ] 859.) Klencke has published a number of cases where the bone has been restored after the loss of both tables of the skull: in all of them, the dura mater was preserved, and from these observations, to- gether with his experiments onanimals.he concludes that the dura mater is the source from which the cranial bones are re-formed. Koehler removed with the trephine portions of the _ skull in dogs, without injuring the peri- cranium, and afterwards found the openings filled lip by a cartilaginous material, firmly adhering to the pericranium and dura mater, in which bone was beginning to form. This deposit was derived from the dura mater and the cut edges of the bone, and was in sufficient quantity to close the hole within three weeks of the operation. {Experimenta circa rer/enerationem Ossium, 1786.) _ From experiments which have been performed, It would seem that in animals the dura mater is the principal agent in the reproduction of bone ; whilst, from observations upon the human subject,' the pericranium appears chiefly to supply the' material for repair. Croca states that regeneration in the cranium, although very incomplete, is more frequently met wiih than in the other flat bones. {CosieUo's Sui gerij, vol. iii. p. 278.) Examples of reproduction of the other flat bones are very rare, although they have been met with A case of extensive necrosis of the sternum, under going repair, is recorded by Stanley. [Op. cit. p.l 18.) Murray excised a piece of the breast bone of a pigeon, together with the periosteum, and after some weeks the loss of substance was nearly restored {hdiu. Med. and Sure/. Journal, October 1831.) I VV agncr mentions two cases where there was partial re-formation of the rib, after resection for disease. {Op. dl. p. 133.) Michel Medici removed a piece of rib, an inch long, from a sheep fourteen months old, with the periosteum and the inter costal muscles attached. After four years the animal was killed, and the loss was not only re- paired, but the new piece much exceeded in length hat w,),ch had been taken away. Reparation of tlie liiuni IS very rare, although necrosis is by no means uncommon in this bone: partial regeneri- tion li.T, been observed in a very few cases onl'y According to Weidmann, the short and irregular tJones are never reproduced, and Stanley considers 333 It doubtful. Although complete restoration i,f one ol these bones has never been met with vet in several instances some of them, and espeoi'ally the OS calcis, have been found partly re-formed after disease or operation. Fergusson has published a case where the os calcis, having been extensively removed for disease, was found imperfectly repro- duced seven years and a half afterwards. " {Med. Times and Gaz. June, 18S1.) Thierry, in the Moni tciir desHopitaux, 1856, vol. iv., relates an instance of the same bone being restored after excision for necrosis: and the newly formed bone was subse- quently removed for the same affection. Gerdy mentions two specimens of partial reproduction of this bone,'in his possession ; and other illustrations of it might be given.] When, in a case of necrosis from destruction, or detachment, of the periosteum, a scale or table of either a long or flat bone is separated, regeneration seldom follows, because the granulations, which rise up under the sequestrum as soon as the dead bone is removed, become united to the adjacent parts. It is true, that, when the external wound has healed, the surface of the bone may present no irregularity perceptible externally ; yet, the filling up of the excavation has been effected only by means of a dense fibrous tissue ; and, in these cases, if the bone be macerated, the excavation, which the exfoliation had produced, will be clearly shown, and it will be found that no reproduction has taken place. [This is most frequently seen in the bones of the skull, where the reparative process is less active than m those of the limbs: after removal of the soft parts, depressions may often be found in the cranium, resulting from a superficial necrosis, in which the lost bone has not been restored.] Mr. Mayo's view, however, is different ; he re- presents the surface, from which a thin exfoliation has separated, as becoming covered with granula- tions, the growth and ossification of which replace in some degree, the substance lost. {Hamcm Falholow, p. 34.) [Miescher's experiments prove that this may sometimes take place, and that the exfoliated piece of bone may be partly reproduced by the ossifica- tion of the deeper granulations, which are in contact with the living bone {De ivflammaiionc Ossium, 1836); but, as Rokitansky well remarks, the scar IS usuiilly depressed, since only a thin layer of the granulations is ossified, whilst a deposit of new bone beneath the periosteum, which surrounds the necrosed piece, renders this depression of the cica- trix still more apparent. When, however, the external surface of the bone suffers necrosis, and the perio>teum remains unin- jured, this inembrano inllames and pours out lymph, which becomes ossified, and forms a bony covering to the sequestrum, often necessitating an operation for its removal. This effort to restore the dead plate of bono, which sometimes accom- panies a superficial necrosis, is seldom, if ever, mot with in the skull, although it is very common in the bones of the extremities.] It has been remarked that the power of repro- duction in the bones is particularly active in the early periods of life, and in healthy subjects; and that it is' languid or even annihilated in old persons, pregnant women {/ioim's Tlics. p. 17.|.) and in venereal, cancerous, and rickety patients! {Culliscn, C/iir, llodicrnw, pars. i. p, C36!)