PROSTATE GLAND, catheter must be used. The 4^9 these means, the v,»w"».v» practical observations, respecting the mode ot in- troducing them in cases of enlarged prostate gland, will be more conveniently introduced when the chronic enlargement of this part 13 considered. (See also Catheter, and Urine, Retention prefer, however, a well curved gum catheter of moderate size to any other, as a rule in these cu- In the course of a few days, the severe pain and the frequent mictiu-ition gradually subside, although relapse may occur if exercise be too freely taken, or at a too early period. Care and moderation in diet, with total abstinence from alcoholic stimulants, should be enjoined for a time, as means must now be taken, not merely to restore the health by nu- tritive aud tonic regimen, but to reduce the bulk of the organ, enlarged as it is from the effect of the infiiimmatory process. Chronio prostatitis is by no means an uncom- mon affection. It is obstinate in duration and often the occasion of very troublesome symptoms. Its most fertile cause is gonorrhosal inflammation, which has extended backwards and affected, more or less acutely, the prostate. Local cold and damp, occasionally mechanical injury, more frequently long-continued indulgence in venereal excesses of any kind, are also undoubtedly causes. That form which results from long standing and severe stric- ture of the urethra, or chronic cystitis, or calculus, either vesical or prostatic, is comnion enough, and needs no separate consideration; it is the mere re- sult of existing adjacent disease, upon which it altogether depends. The patient complains of a little undue fre- quency in making water, of some muco-purulent discharge from the urethra, of dull pains in the perinaeum and about the anus, sometimes occasional sometimes persistent, but almost always increased by exercise; often of pains in the thighs and legs, or in the sacral region ; sometimes increased, but not invariably, by sexual intercourse. There is usually no pain in micturition until the end of the act, when it is occasionally, but by no means al- ways, felt, and then it is never very acute like that of calculus. There is sometimes tenderness in the perinseum, and in the prostate itself, to rectal ex- amination, but there is not necessarily any en- largement. The patient has frequently little or no sexual desire, and may or may not be the subject of frequent involuntary seminal emissions during sleep. The health is mostly impaired and general debility is complained of. In the condition thus described I find no treat- ment, for the milder cases, so serviceable as coun- ter-irritation at the surface of the perinseum. But it is necessary to continue it for a period of four to six, or even sometimes of eight weeks, and if thus persevered in, benefit is almost certain to follow. It may be accomplished by rubbing a moistened stick of nitrate of silver on the skin in front of tiie anus, over the bulb of the urethra, or by blistering a portion of about 1^ inch long by 1 inch wide, with strong " acetum eantharidis," the soreness to be kept up by the daily application of a piece of blisternig-paper, or by occasioinil renpplications of the fluid originally used. At the same time the state of the digestion must be improved, the vigour of the system be promoted by tonics and generous diet, and exercise is to be permitted and increased by degrees as soon as the power of taking it without inducing pain is ac quired. ..The digestive organs being in tolerable condition, the use of iron is almost always attended with benefit. The sulphate, combined with sulphate of quinine, and made into pills with some extract of rhubarb, and a little extract of nux vomica, is an advantageous form of tonic for these cases, in which it is desirable to maintain regular action of the bowels, impaired as it usually is by inability to take much exercise, A little of the watery extract of aloes can be combined, if it is necessary to em- ploy more decided aperient action. The tincture of the sesquichloride of iron is also a very efficient remedy, provided the bowels are not permitted to become unduly constipated. I prefer these forms of iron to any other, including the recently intro- duced hypophosphites, for the great majority of patients suffering from this affection. When the predominant symptom is frequent nocturnal emis- sion, and there is much pain felt in passing an instrument through the prostatic urethra, nothing acts so beneficially as the application of a solution of nitrate of silver, commencing with about five grains to the ounce of water and increasing it to twenty grains if necessary, by means of a perfo- rated catheter containing a piston by which the fluid can be set free at the proper spot, and its action mainly limited to it, a matter which it is important to accomplish pretty accurately. In performing this operation, the following course should be pursued:—The bladder should first be emptied; and the opportunity of doing so should be employed to determine the exact length of the urethra, in the usual manner, while the urine ia flowing. The instrument containing the caustic solution should then be passed immediately, the solution being discharged as soon as the perforated extremity has arrived within the prostatic urethra, the situation of which may be correctly inferred from the known length of the urethra, as well as by the undue sensibility which the part possesses. The immediate results usually are, repeated wants to pass water, which are painful and sometimes attended with slight bleeding; these subside in 24 hours, and possibly are succeeded by a little pu- rulent discharge for a day or two. During the first few days it is not uncommon that the symp- toms originally complained of increase, but after- wards they gradually diminish. Should this, how- ever, not be the case, no fresh application of the caustic should be made until three or four weeks have elapsed since the previous one, as it is impos- sihle to ascertain the effect in a shorter period of time. If necessarj', it may then be again applied after three or four weeks, and in a stronger solu- tion, A third or fourth application may be neces- sary. I have, however, rarely continued to employ it if not successful on the fourth occasion. Its success mainly depends on applying it freely and accurately to the prostatic urethra, and when this is ensured it generally proves a very valuable remedy. When chronio prostatitis consists mainly in in- duration and swelling, remaining as the results of an acute attack, those internal remedies which appear to possess a specific power to promote ab- sorption of the effused matters should be employed, such as the iodide and bromide of potassium. They may be administered internally, by applica- m