868 UTERUS, CANCER OF gives tlic figure of a mushroom to the part. It is true that ordinary hypertrophic elongation of the cervix begins somewhat in a similar way; but the " cancer-mushroom " is distinguished by its more complete resemblance to the mushroom shape, the spreading proceeding all round the os; and by the everted os of hypertrophy presenting a smoother Burfece. Malgaigne descrilies the " Champignons cance'reux;" and the same feature is insisteil upon by Dr. Braxton Hicks {Guy's Reports, 186G). The Caulifloiver Excrescence of Dr. John and Sir Charles Clarke is the best known form of the epithelial cancer of the uterus. It appears from Gooch's criticism to be the same disease as was described by Levret and Herbiniaux, under the :)ame of "Tumeur vivace." It also alTects by preference the cervix. Opini(ms differ as to its malignancy. Rokitansky believes it to be can- cerous, calling it the villous cancer. He describes it as a conferva-like growth, consisting of cor puseles the size of linseed grains, pale red, trans parent, tolerably firm, hanging from the os uteri into the vagina, bleeding profusely on the slightest touch, and developed out of an encephaloid. It often fills the vagina, and causes profuse watery secretion. During life it becomes turgescent, like the uterine surfiice of the placenta; but dead, it shrivels up, and then only resembles a flocculent mass. Virchow, on the other hand, says it is not can cerous, ranking it under the papillary tumors, of which there are three forms—the simple, the can- croid, and the cancerous. The cauliflower ex crescence, according to him, begins as a simpl papillary tumor, and runs into cancroid, but not into cancerous papillary tumor. It is formed only of papillary or villous growths, which consist of thick layers of peripheral flat and cylindrical epithelial cells, and a fine inner cylinder of ex- tremely small cellular tissues with large vessels, running in loops. This tumor is also called papil- kry hypertrophy of the cervix uteri. Mayer re- garded it as an originally local affection. Han- nover separates it from cancer, under the name of epithelioma. Lebert and Schutz call it epithelial cancroid. The divergence of opinion as to the cancerous nature of this growth is difficult to reconcile.^ But if it be admitted—and clinical observation dictates the admission—that the cauliflower excrescence frequently springs from a base of medullary cancer, or at some stage is associated with cancer, there is strong ground for taking the more unfcivourahle view. Certainly, in some cases the cauliflower-form be- comes lost in the ordinary characters of medullary cancer ; appearing to be simply a phase in the development of the latter. At the same time it is eminently important in a therapeutical aspect, to bear in mind the apparently lesser degree of ma- lignancy of the cauliflower excrescence, and its greater concentration in, or limitation to, the vagi- nal portion of the cervix, up to a certain period of its growth, than is at all common with regard to the medullary cancer. Ablation of the growth by amputation of the vaginal portion is not seldom successful, if performed during the stage of locali- sation. It is not easy to get an opportunity of C'c- aniining the disease in its initiative stages. The symptoms produced are not such as to lead the patient to seek advice. Dr. West says, when he has first seen it, the cervix has been already some- what increased in size, the os uteri not open, but its lips flattened and expanded, so that their edge, which felt a little ragged, projected a line or two beyond the circumference of the cervix, while their surface was rough and granular. This irregularity was seen to be produced by the aggregation of numerous small, somewhat flattened papilla: of a reddish colour, semi-transparent, and often bleed- ing very easily. Generally, these small sessile pa- piUiE increase in size, and form a distinct out- growth from the whole circumference of the os uteri of the size of an egg, an apple, or even larger. These growths are split up by deep fissures into lobules of various sizes, all of which seem to be connected together at their base. The dimensions of these growths are not in general the same throughout, but they spring from the surface of the 08 uteri by a short thick pedicle, which is the elongated and hypertrophied cervix, and then ex- pand below into the peculiar cauliflower shape. At the base the substance is much firmer. Though the vagina does not by any means escape from par- ticipation in the disease, and a granular or papillary structure may be felt sometimes extending over its roof, and for some distance along one or other wall, yet tliis is by no means constant. The tendency to involve adjacent parts is far less than in ordinary cancer. Usually the outgrowth, in the course of time, disappears in part, under the processes of alter- nate partial death and reproduction which charac- terise the medullary cancer. The irregular, sharp- cut edge of the os, whence it grew, is at first felt ■rranularand mucous within, but afterwards grows thicker and nodulated, assuming by degrees all the characters of a part which has from the first been the seat of medullary cancer. The Scirrhous oi Fibrous Cancer is so very rare that Dr. West has never recognised a clear case during life, and Mr. Paget has not met with it. Rokitansky thus describes it, deducing his de- scription, as he admits, from a very few observa- tions : " On a careful examination one may dis- cover,' in the midst of the tissue of the portio- vaginalis, another structure recognisable by the different shade of white of the fibres composing it, and which, though closely packed, intersect each other in every imaginable direction; while the small interstices between them are filled by a transpar3nt matter, of a pale yellowish red or greyish colour. This new structure is inhltrated into the uterine substance without any distinct limits, extending further in one part than m another, and here and there heaped up in greater quantity, thus producing the enlargement ot tie portio-vaginalis, the uneven nodulated character, and the well known induration of its substance. There is a form of intractab'c tdccration ot the OS and cervix uteri, which most authorities refer to epithelial cancer, but which some regard as ot tubercular nature. The tubercular ulcerations are thus described bv Robert-" They may be recog- nised by their excavated base, their g^c.v'/n "P" nearance, and the presence of a caseous "'•'•tter m llie midst of the muco-purnlent discharges which come from the interior of the cervix; also bj the presence in the cervix of tumors of uncerUm siz ., rounded form, at ^'-^t 'fdiuc change of colour, afterwards ^''f'-/^''!"'''''^, f„J to the pressure of the fingers, and g'^''"? '"X tinct sense of fluctuation. These tumors are