nnd, if tlie surgeon cannot do more, yet lie has fulfilled iiis professional dut}'. Although Sir Benjamin Brodio admits, that ■\vouiids of the dura mater are attended with great danger, lie approves of the practice here recom- mended (see JMed. Chir. Trans, vol. xiv, p. 389), nnd supports liis opinion by reference to an inte- resting case under the late Mr. Chevalier. This gentleman was called to a child, a year and a half old, which had received a severe blow on the head, and lay insensible and convulsed. There was no ■wound of the scalp ; but the fontanel appeared somewhat elevated. It was therefore exposed by an incision, and raised so as to uncover the subja- cent dura mater, beneath which the purple colour of extravasated blood was plainly discernible. A puncture having been made with a lancet, three or four ounces of blood issued out with considera- ble force ; the symptoms were immediately re- lieved, and the child recovered. (See Med. Fhys. Joiini. vol. viii. p. 505.) An example, furnishing an equally convincing proof of the practice here advised, is also adduced by Sir Benjamin Brodie, from the practice of my friend and neighbour, the late Mr. Ogle. The utility of trephining is not limited to dis- charging extravasated blood, or matter, lodged underneath the skull. This operation frequently enable us to elevate depressed portions of bone. The latter object can often be accomplished by merely inalcing one perforation. Sometimes, se- veral perforations are requisite, to be made near each other. Authors even state that it may also become necessary to remove the intervening por- tions of bone with a pair of cutting forceps. The depressed part may then be easily raised by means of an elevator. Occasionally, indeed I may say very often, the best practice is to remove the de- pressed portion entirel}', when its total separation from the rest of the skull can be accomplished bj' cutting across the base of the depressed piece. According to some writers, if, after dividing the dura mater, the surface of the brain appears smooth and flabby, with a fluctuation, we may concltide there is an abscess in its substance ; and these au- thors, more enterprising with their pens, it is to be lioped, than with their scalpels, sanction the method of carrj'ing the point of the bistoury to the di-pth of an inch, i/' circumslanees render so deep a jini/clure necessary, " But," says liiclierand, " prudence forbids us to go further. Cutting the 8\irface of the brain causes no pain, and it produces less danger than one might apprehend; experience and observation prove (in opposition to phrenolo- gical theories), that the essential parts of this organ are situated near its base, and tliat Us surface may he removed " il/toiit davyer or pain." {Nosoyr. Cliir. t. ii. p. 301. ed. 3.) A case, in which Diipnytren plunged a bistoury to the depth of more than an inch into the brain, and thus let (iUt an ounce and a half of pus, is re- cmded in a valuable periodical work. (See Journ. of Forciyn Mr.d. No. 1!!. p. 2.0!!,) Some tempo- rary amendment followed; but the case had a fatal terniiiiation. ' After the operation of trephining, the divided ecalp is to be placeil as nearly as possible in its natural situatimi, and lightly dressed with a pledget of simple ointment, or covered with the water dr,;ssii)g and a piece of oil silk. In applying the dressings, the surgeon should invariably keep in [-IINE; 78t view these objects ; namelj', to let whatever is put on the wound be as light as possible, not apt to make pressure on the brain, and of a nature which cannot excite irritation. All stimulants are to be strictly prohibited. A bandage, which would only heat the patient, should be avoided ; and, if any furtlier covering be required, a thin linen cap should be preferred. The practitioner should not now conceive that he has done all that he ought to do. Let him re- member the urgent necessity of keeping off, or di- minishing, inflammation of the dura mater and brain, which is still to be feared. Let him bleed the patient largely and repeatedly ; exhibit ca- lomel, saline purges, clysters, and antimonials ; and if the symptoms continue, let him apply a blister to the head. I shall avoid, however, any re- petitions on this subject, by referring to Head, Injukies of. The aperture in the skull becomes closed with granulations, which slowly acquire a hard consis- tence. While the cicatrix is soft, it should be protected from external injury with a thin piece of horn or metal. Exfoliations from the margin of the perforation sometimes retard the healing of the wound ; but, now that the practice of dressing with drying spirituous applications has been ex- ploded, and the removal of any part of the scalp is condemned by all the best surgeons, these unplea- sant consequences are rendered much less frequent than in former days. The reproduction of bone to fill up the perfora- tion made by the trephine, does nut usually ad- vance beyond a certain point, and takes place very slowly and only from the margin of the aperture, j'lven when the soft parts unite by the first intention, the deficiency of bone is never completely obviated (See Necuosis) ; first, because, as M. Velpeau observes, the pericranium has been destroyed ; secondly, because the dura mater (which, however' does not appear to him to be capable of contributing to the process) is for the most part also involved ; and thirdly, because the concentric reproduction is hindered by the contact of the soft parts. If the wound heal by the suppurative process, M, Velpeau adverts to the following changes as takini' place. Between the 15th and 2Uth days, a pre- liminary inflammation begins to detach the sharp edges of the perforation, which afterwards e.xfoliate. The osseous texture itself becomes the seat of a very curious healing process, which has been ac- curately investigated by Baron Larrey. It becomes exceedingly vascular, and its minute vessels, by ex- tending themselves, and producing ossification,'may even in time close with an osseous phue the greater portion of the opening in the skull. In the Mu- seum of M. Larrey at the Invalides, M. Velpeau saw various preparations, and one patient in which this process was manifest; and, in proof of the ac- curacy of this statement, the latter surgeon adverts to instances in which the perforation is reduced to a mere canal. In University College Museum, there is a skidl in which very extensive reproduc- tions of hone have taken place after the operation of trephining, the patient having sttrvived it lortyyears. That the bone may live and enlarge, without the intervention of the pericranium and dura mater seems evident to M. Velpeau from the circular osseous ridge, which sometimes takes iilaco around the perforation, so as either to form a iierceptible protuberance under the scalp, or n swelling within