•278 MAMMA, DISEASES Ot. gradually spread to the breast, accompanied with darting pains, sickness, and shivering. The pa- tient mentioned that she had been to another hos- pital, where her breast was bandaged; after which she was discharged. However, the pain and swell- ing went on increasing until the day preceding her admission into St. Mary's Hospital, when the ab- scess burst. She had missed her two last cata- menial periods ; her bowels were irregular, and she bad been badly fed, and oveiworked—was, in short, out of health. On examining the opening with the probe, a deep sinus was found extending apparently under the breast to a considerable dis- tance up, and towards the arm. This was dilated by means of a long narrow probe-pointed bistoury and poultices applied. In the course of a fortnight it was injected with a dilute solution of sulphate of zinc; but not after the lapse of ten days showing any disposition to heal, it was laid freely open,and got well presently.] Mr. Key's practice was to trace the course of all the numerous sinuses, and lay them open, and he asserts that unless this be done with respect to every one of them, the cure cannot be accom- plished. If he found any two sinuses running in such directions, that when fully opened they left a small part of the mamma in a pendulous state, he removed such part entirely. As the sinuses are filled with fungus, their continuations present no visible cavity, and can only be detected by the greater softness of parts of the wound, where, on breaking down the fungus, the orifice of the col- lateral sinus may be found. Mr. Hey has found that, even in the most unfavourable subjects, the wounds heal quickly, and the natural shape of the bre.ist is preserved. The foregoing treatment, it must be confessed, 'gomg ireaiuienL, ii muav uc uuiiicoovu, - and if milder measures will answer, I symptoms advantage can result from the division of the sinus. {Illuslrations of Dis. of the Breast, p. 11.) [The breast is liable to chronic abscesses, the formation of which is sometimes so slow and free from pain that the cases are mistaken for solid fleshy tumours. Tlie treatment consists in letting out the matter, and giving such medicines as shall regulate the secretions, and improve the general health. To the tumour itself the counter-stimulant embrocation recommended bj' Sir B. C. Brodie may be applied (l^^ Sp. CampUorm, Sp. Vini Te- niuor aa §iijss., Liq. Plumhi Diac. 3j. M. Fial em- brocatio) ; a piece of flannel once folded is to be soaked in this, laid on the part, and renewed six or eight times day and night until the skin is in- flamed, left off for three days and resumed.] Sometimes, when the swelling is opened, a con- siderable quantity of milk is discharged: in this case. Sir A. Cooper recominends a sponge tent to be introduced into the puncture, by which means the adhesive inflammation and obliteration of the cavity will be produced. Mr. Hey describes a very deep-seated abscess of the breast, not of frequent occurrence, and not confined to pregnant or suckling women. Its situation renders all superficial applications inef- fectual. The inflammatory stage is tedious ; and when the matter has made its way outwards, the discharge continues, and there is no tendency to healing. Sometimes the matter lodges behind the mamma, as well as in the substance of the gland, and breaks out in different places, the intermediate parts of tlie breast feeling as if affected with a scirrhous hardness. Numerous sinuses run in dif- ferent directions, and, when opened, a soft purple fungus appears within them. The disease goes on in this state for a long while, keeping up hectic 13 SGVCrC' __ they should be preferred. Instead of laying all the sinuses open, Sir Astley Cooper injected them with a lotion composed of rosewater and two or three drops of strong sulphuric acid to each ounce of it, folded Imen, wet with the same application, being also laid over the breast. [Dr. Byford,of Chicago, extols injection of iodine. This is done by inserting a soft flexible catheter to the bottom of the tortuous canal, and throwing the injection through it so as to apply it without dilution to the bottom of the fistula. This favours the shallowing instead of the narrowing of the cavity. {CMcaffo Med. Exam., Qepi. 1860.) Benefit will, occasionally, be derived fiom cover- ing the surface where the fistulous openings are whh a layer of compound mercurial cerate spread on lint, and applying over this a bandage, in order to maintain a moderate amount of pressure. 1 his determines redness and smarting of the integu- ment, followed by shedding of the cuticle. A case of deep purulent sinuses in the mamma of five months' standing was cured in thirteen days, by simply preventing the play of the pectoral muscle. The patient was a delicate-looking young woman from the country, who came under the writer's care in St. Mary's Hospital iLancet, March 14, 180-3, p. 296).] , ^ . When a deep-seated abscess forms between the ribs and the posterior surface of the breast, and bursts, so as to be attended with a sinus, and a tedious exfoliation of the ribs. Sir Astley Cooper considered the injection of diluted acids the best practice; for, unless the _dead bone be loose, no The curative means for sore nipples are various. Abrasions may be covered with starch, and muci- lage of quince-seed. When the cracks are deep, they ought to be closed by pressing their edges together, and covering with collodion in a thick and wide coat. When ulceration exists it will be acute or chronic. Sir Astley Cooper recom- mended a solution of a drachm of borax in three ounces and a half of water and half an ounce _ot spirit of wine. [A beneficial application >s pencil- linc the chapped surface with a solution of hydrate of potash. A scruple of hydrate of potash is to be dissolved in four ounces of water ; and a piece of lint moistened with this to be placed on the part twice a day; when it gets dry, the surface may be cleansed with a sponge dipped in water, frequently renewed. Glycerine, with tannin, tincture of catechu, and alnm, will all be found useful apph- cations. Should the ulcer become indolent, st o g astringents and stimulants are required A sk Ifu use of\he sulphate of copper '^"d 'iitrate of h will shorten the course ot these uke.s. T- ''^ applied solid to the surface, once in eight da} s » excellent. In the interval the Bore may be d e^ed with tannin or alum. See Paper by ^■■J f ''' of Chicago, Med. En I860.) See Nipw-eJ Galactocdc, the "^'^'^''^Sin'roTtl^ Sir Astley Cooper. [This implies a ° ^"^ breast d;pendiiig on the """^'"X to Scan- quantity of milk and 0-=-^;; ^^^^L milk