■ Deficiency in the hnglh of the lea is met with as a rare complication of varus, and is then usually associated with some malformation of tlie foot; and in some instances the lower end of the fibula appears to be deficient, or fused with the tibia, which is generally bent at an angle forwards in the lower third. Spina bifida, an i Malformation of the Brain and Spinal Cord.—huinenccplialous foetuses, and also in spina bifida occurrinjf in tiie lumbar region, varus is of frequent occurrence, as well as other defor- mities affecting the upper and lower extremities. M. Gue'rin, who has carefully studied these cases, adduces them in favour of the dynamic theory of the production of varus. TREATMENT OF CONGENITAL TALIPE.S VARUS. The great objects of treatment of congenital club-foot, as well as of all other deformities of the limbs, are— 1st, the restoration of form ; and 2nd, the restoration of function. The means we have at our disposal for accom- plishing these objects may be arranged in three classes—viz., the mechanical, the ph>/siological [\n- cluding chiefly gymnastics, shampooing, and gal- vanism), and the operative. Before the discover)' of subcutaneous tenotomy (1831) brought the treatment of deformities im- mediately under the care of the surgeon, the method of treatment generally adopted, consisted of a combinat'on of the mechanical and physiological means; and these were sufficient for the cure of the slighter forms of varus, but completely failed in the more severe and rigid cases, even when the treatment was continued for several years. In some cases, even when severe, the inversion of the foot was by such means more or less com- pletely corrected, but the elevation of the heel was seldom if ever overcome; so that the cases remained as examples of talipes equinus or equino-varus, and either continued in this condition, or relapsed to the original deformit3% The scientific treatment of talipes varus, when severe, can onh' be accomplished by a judicious combination of the mechanical, physiological, and operative means; and many of the failures fre- quently witnessed, even in the practice of those who have devoted much attention to the subject, are due to the want of this combination of princi- ples, too frequently considered as antagonistic to each other, but which modern science teaches us are only valuable in so far as their mutual de- pendence may be recognised by the surgeon. In the orthopa;ilic practice of the present day in England, the operative and mechanical means are too generally combined, to the exclusion of the physiological, in the treatment of club-foot and other deforinities of the limbs ; and the meclia- nical means alone too much relied upon, to the neglect of the physiological means, in the treat- ment of spinal deformities. If the operative and mechanical means in combination are admitted to be inadequate to the cure of club-foot, without the aid of the physio- logical means, so also is it equally true that the 0|ierative treatment (i. e. tenotomy), without the assistance of the mechanical means, is the most mischievous and unscientific that can be adopted. There is no greater error than to suppose that club-foot is curable by tenotomy alone. Although PES. 681 in the slight congenital, and many of the non" congenital cases, the foot can be iinmediately re" stored to its normal position, after division of the tendons—by so doing great danger ia incurred of non-union, or very feeble union, of the tendo-Achillis in the non-congenit;il cases, especially when of paralytic origin; and of complete non-reunion of the posterior tibial tendon in the congenital cases, 80 that the condition of the patient may be ren- dered much worse than if the deformity had never been submitted to treatment. Assuming, then, as proved that operative treatment is indispensable in all but the slight- est forms of congenital club-foot, the question arises— At iviiat age should Tenotomy he performed ?—■ Very different opinions are still entertained on this point, but it is generall)' recommended that the operation be deferred till about the walking period—viz., the tenth or twelfth month, and sometimes later. Probably this has been in- fluenced by the opinion given by Dr. Little, that " the most favourable period for the division of tendons, in infivntile cases of talipes, is a few months before the time when the child mav be expected to make the first attempts to walk— about the age of six or eight months, until which time, in cases of talipes varus, mechanical apparatus should be used to turn the toes outwardly, reducing the deformity to the condition of talipea equinus." {Op. ciL, p. 284.) The late Professor Lizars, of Edinburgh, at- tached the greatest importance to the assistance to be derived from " the due exercise of the muscles, ligaments, and articulations of the foot " in walking ; and on this account, as well as from the liability of the apparatus to fret the skin in infancy, postponed the operation to a much later period than Dr. Little. He observes :—" Two or three years of age is the earliest time at which division should be attempted. I prefer three years." Practical Observations on ihs Treatment of Clubfoot, third edit., page 9. (Edinburgh, 1855). But to me it appe irs that the age at which the operation should be performed is to be determined by the anatomical and physiological conditions of the structures involved in the deformity. There can be no doubt that the malformed condition of the astragalus at birth is determined by the mal- position of the OS calcis and the navicular bone and that its altered form is in evident adaptation to the altered position of these bones. The effect of allowing the deformity to remain during the period of active growth anil ossification of the bones, is not only to induce the persistence of these abnormal conditions, but a positive increase both in the deviations of the bones and the adapted shortening of the ligaments. Arrest of development of the muscles of the leg ia a constant and most important eil'ect of the persis- tence of the deformity, and one from which the individiuil never recovers. The longer the defor- mity remains uncured, the less will be the ul- timate size of the nuiacles of the leg. To avoid these grave evils, the only course ia to cure the deformity at as early a period as may be consistent with the general health and strength of the child. The opeiation may be performed between the first and second month. Delay beyond the second month is uimeceasary, and