piotrude extenially ; but tliey are formed above iho sphincter muscle, and we call them internal piles, or hamorrlioids." (See Land. j\Ied. Gaz. vol. XV. p. 742.) Mr. Syme divides hiemorrhoids, or the tumors ivhich grow at the verge of the anus, into three kinds:—1. Those which depend on enlargement of the veins at tlie e.xtremity of the rectum. 2. Kxternal hajmorrhoids formed by enlargement of the thin skin and subjacent cellular texture at tiie verge of the anus. 3. Those which consist of a vascular development of the mucous membrane, constituting tumors much disposed to bleed, when protruded from tlie anus. Of this character appear to Mr. Syme to be those named internal hcemor- rhoids. It will be convenient to consider separately the two varieties, viz., external and internal hjemorrhoids. External Hemorrhoids. [An external hsemorrhoid is a small tumor situ- ated just external to the sphincter muscle. What may be designated as the true external or venous haemorrhoid, answers to the first of Mr. Syme's subdivisions, and is connected with a dilated and varicose condition of the hsemorrhoidal veins, the distended branches of which are in such cases visible through the thin integument near the anus. Sometimes, when more congested than usual, coagu- lation of the blood takes place in one of these va- ricosities, and a small hard circumscribed tumor is formed external to the anus. Inflammation then takes place in and around the swelling, and is often attended with very severe pain and distress to the patient. If not attended to, this will often proceed to suppuration ; a small abscess will form and break, and the coagulum will be expelled through the opening. Such an abscess, if small, ■will usually heal, but when large or situate in very close proximity to the sphincter, it may leave a small fistulous channel which will not heal till laid open in the usual way,] Sir B. Brodie says: " Sometimes an abscess forms in one of these external piles, and bursts externally. The abscess may be troublesome to heal ; but, when it is healed, it is found that the cavity of the vein is obliterated, and that it is, in fact, cured. Such an abscess is essentially dif- ferent from a fistula in ano. Sometimes, when an external pile is inflamed, the blood in it becomes coagulated, and it is then hard to the touch. If, under these circumstances, you slit open the pile with a lancet, there comes out a mass of hard co- agulum, perhaps as large as a pea, or a horsebean : the cavity inflames, suppurates, and granulates. The same thing happens as though suppuration had taken place in the first instance, and the pile is obliterated. But if you do not slit open tlie pile, and leave the disease to take its own course, the cavity being blocked up by the coagulum, the vein becomes obliterated, after which the coagulum is gradually absorbed, and the pile is cured ; that which was a pile before being now converted into a flap of skin. Just the same circumstance happens with varicose veins of the leg, where sometimes there is a Jiatural cure, in consequence of the coagulation of the blood in the dilated vessels. Sometimes, when a pile is thus distended with coagulated blood, the skin becomes so much at- tenuated, that it gives way in some one point, VOL. II. RECTUM, DISEASES OF. 5)3 and the blood being gradually squeezed out, sup- puration probably takers place ; and the case pro- ceeds just the same as if j'ou had opened the pile with a lancet." (Sir D. Brodie.) The folds of skin, the remains of former piles, are at first large, loose, and pendulous, but may afterwards di- minish so as to give no inconvenience. [The most effectual treatment of such a case is to make a puncture with a lancet into the swelling ; the coagulum then escapes, or it may be easily squeezed out. The relief to the patient is im- mediate, the irritation subsides, and the small wound rapidly heals. On examining the cavity after the blood has been squeezed out of it, it will be seen to have the appearance of a c^'st, with a smooth polished lining, evidently the inner membrane of the vein. The cyst is often only loosely connected with the surrounding textures, and by taking hold of it with the forceps, it may be easily detached, remaining however adherent by a sort of pedicle, where the varicose dilatation was connected with the trunk of the vein. I have repeatedly done this for the purpose of examin- ing the nature of these swellings, cutting through the pedicle above mentioned after drawing out the cyst, and have satisfied myself that the coagulum is contained in the interior of the vein, and is not effused by rupture into the areolar tissue, as some- times described. The drawing out the cyst in the manner described adds slightly to the pain sufl'ered by the patient at the moment, but it has the ad- vantage at all events of preventing the return of the complaint at that particular spot. In cases where the inflammatory actior> is less severe, it may subside in a few days under the application of cold lotions, with rest in the recum- bent position, and purgative medicines ; but the coagulum remains, and will require some time for its removal, its absorption being necessarily a slow and gradual process. Such a case as has been described is a true external hsemorrhoid or pile, having its origin in a dilatation of a branch of vein in the vicinity of the anus. But after repeated attacks of this kind the dilated skin, which covers the swellings, does not entirely regain its former condition, but remains enlarged, and forms pendulous excrescences, which are at any time liable, from accidental irritation, to become swollen and painful, till at length the skin and subjacent areolar texture become much thick- ened and hypertrophied.] Sir Benjamin Brodie explains that the ultimate changes which take place in cases of piles, are exactly similar to those which occur in connection with varicose veins of the leg. At first, these vessels are simply varicose, or dilated ; at last, they become inflamed ; lymph is deposited in the celluiar tissue surrounding them ; and at length there is a great mass of induration, in which the diseased blood-vessels are imbedded. So it is with the veins of the anus. At first, they become simply dilated ; repeated attacks of inflammation cause an effusion of lymph into the adjacent ccl- lulartexture ; and then the pile appears like a solid tumor; in the centre of which, however, the dilated vein, in which the disease originated, is still found. Mr. Hodgson says: "The blood sometimes coagulates in the dilated vein, and the swel- ling becomes hard, inflamed, and very painful. The coagulum is subsequently absorbed, but the thickened coats of t!ie vein and the surround- L L