■ OLEUM RICINI. In surgical cases, requir- ing the bowels to be opened with the slightest de- gree of irritation possible, and yet with certainty, oleum ricini is one of the best and safest medicines. The usual dose is one or two table-spoonfuls, which may be repeated, every two or three hours, till the desired effect is produced. It may be taken, floating on a little peppermint-water, or milk. OLEUM TEREBINTHINiE. In the article Liniment may be seen a formula, in which tur- pentine is an active ingredient. It was also strongly recommended by Dr. Kentish, when mixed with the ung. resinse flavse, as an application to burns. It is sometimes given internally for the relief of gleet, and various affections of the bladder and its mucous membrane. OLEUM TEREBINTHINATUM. Olei amygdalfe 3 ss. Olei terebinthinje gutt. xL. Misce. In deafness, occasioned by defective, or diseased action of the glandulse eeruminosse, Mr. Maule directs a little of this oil to be dropped into the patient's ear, or applied at the end of a small dossil of cotton. The meatus auditorius externus should be cleansed every day with a bit of soft cotton afBxed to a probe. (See Pharmacop, Chirurgica. OLEUM TIGLIL Croton Oil. This medi- cine is well known for its active purgative qua- lities in minute doses, varying from m ss to 1*1 iij. It may be given on a bit of sugar. Some times it is blended with extract. Colocynth. comp. and administered in the form of pills. It is pre- scribed in cases attended with great torpor of the bowels, as in those of tetanus, injuries of the spine, &c. It should not be employed when any inflam- mation is present in the abdomen. OMPHALOCELE. (From ofiipaKhs, the navel, and k^iKt], a tumor.) A rupture or her- nia at the navel. (See Hernia.) ONYCHIA. {Svv^, the nail.) An abscess near the nail of the finger. (See Whitlow.) ONYX. (From Svv^, the nail.) A small col- lection of matter in the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, and so named from its being shaped like a nail. Others, imply by the term oni/a:, a small abscess betv/een the layers of the cornea. The term is now rarelv used. [OPHTHALMOSCOPE. (Augenspiegel.) The ophthalmoscope (abbrev. os.) is an instrument used for examiuiition of those parts of the eye in the living, which are situated behind the pupil. This instrument was invented in 1851 by a German— Ileinrich Helmholtz—at present (1867) Professor of Physiology at the University of Heidelberg. We do not propose to enlarge upon the merits of the instrument, which will readily be recog- nised by comparing the results of the examina- tion of the pptio nerve, retina, choroid, &c., of the eye of the living, and the changes produced by these examinations in our ideas and treatment of amaurosis, &c.,with those which were current before the use of the ophthalmoscope. We shall enter however into the description of the various kinds of ophthalmoscopes which have come into use since the first one introduced by Helmlioitz. This de- scription will be followed by a few rcinnrks upnn the mode of examining the healthy living eye with that instrument. The description of the morbid changes of the tunics of the eyeball, and their appearance in health LMOSCOPE. 37,5 as derived from the os. examination, is included in the remarks upon these tunics and to be -found under the articles retina, choroid, vitreous sub- stance, &c. An excellent book, "The Ophthalmoscope, its Varieties and its Use," translated from the German of Dr. Adolf Zander, by Robert Brudenell Carter, with notes and additions by the Translator, contains most that has been said regarding the various oph- thalmoscopes in use, and their mode of application. The greater part of the following article is, with the permission of Dr. Carter, taken from his book. Slight alterations became necessary through the impossibility of inserting drawings of the different ophthalmoscopes. " The varieties of the Ophthalmoscope" and the principles on ichich they depend.—When we look at the eye of another person the pupillary space usually appears black, and the interior of the organ does not return to the spectator a single reflected ray. We have here, therefore, an apparent ex- ception to the well-known physical law, that the passage of light from one medium to another is never complete, and that some of the rays that fall upon the new medium are in all cases bent back again or reflected. The reasons of the dark appearance are briefly as follow : Let us suppose that a luminous point is placed at such a distance from the eye that, by proper accommodation of the latter, an exact image of the point is formed on the sensitive layer of the retina. As the retina, notwithstanding its com- plicated elementary structure, is so far transparent that nearly all rays pass through it, and only a few are reflected by its surface, the former portion will reach the choroid, and will in great measure be absorbed by its dense layer of dark pigment. The darker the pigment, the more complete will be the absorption ; but, as an absolutely black surface, capable of retaining all the light it receives, does not exist in the eye, some portion of the incident rays must always be reflected, both by the choroid and by the sclerotic beneath it. The reflection, if we disregard what is effected by the polished boundary membranes within the eye (the mem- brana limitans, choroidal epithelium, &c., &c.), is wholly irregular, and is dispersed throughout the entire vitreous body. If the fundus of the eye reflected light regularly, " it would have precisely the action of a concave mirror, and the observer wiih_the ophthalmoscope would see only luminous reflection, or floating images of his lamp and his instrument, but not the vessels of the retina, the surface of the nerve, the vascular network of the choroid, and so forth." The irregidarity of the re- flection is proved also by the fact that, in an eye in which two excentric artificial pupils had been made, or in which partial irideremia was present, when the fundus was illuminated through one opening only, the reflected light returned equally and in the same quantity through both ; and through both the colours and objects of the interior were perceptible. (Businelli.) There is, moreover, still further evidence afforded by pathological conditions known to the earliest oculists, such as separation of the retina from the choroid by serous eflusion, or cat's-eye amaurosis, as well as by albinoes, in whom the iris is trans- lucent. The brightness of the interior of ulbinotic eyes depends entirely upon the light diffused over every portion of the retina firom the illtiminated