810 deficient in cellular tissue. Occasionally they i)re- sent a very firm oedematous condition. In not a few instances tiiese callous sores present an appear- ance which has been well described as like " pale mucous membrane set in a ring of cartilage." IV. Ulcers failing to heal from peculiarity of action. This " peculiarity " may lie in the part or in the constitution. From consliiiiiional peculiarities we have the "svphilitic" (primary, secondary, and tertiary ulcers)," scrofulous," " vicarious," or " menstrual," or ''htemorrhagic ;" "cancerous," "glanderous," " mercurial," " gouty," " scorbutic," " dyspeptic," " lupous," " dartrous," and those which occasion- ally attend diabetes and Bright's disease of the kidney. From local peculiarities we have ulcers depend- ing on the presence of a foreign body (as dead bone, tendon, cellular tissue, or any extraneous body impacted in the tissues), varicose veins, the inodular tissue of cicatrices, &c. These ulcers may in their features resemble healing sores or those failing to heal from excess or defect of action; but they have other elements be- sides and beyond these wliich demand attention. In many cases we have no difficulty in recognising this " peculiarity," as when it consists in some visible, tangible local condition, as the presence of a foreign body or varicose veins. But at other times it requires to be carefully and intelligently inquired after, as when it lies in the constitution or haljits, and then the whole historj' of the aflfection, and possibly the past and present history of the patient, have to be learned and studied before the latent cause becomes evident. The "syphilitic" ulcers will be found described in the article on Venereal Disease, and reiilly de- mand no further mention here; but as the tertiary sore is liable to be confounded with ordinary ulcers, it may be shortly described. It is on the face, back of the shoulders, nates, and near the larger joints, that they mostly occur; and in broken- down, delicate persons who, from bad constitutions, or bad treatment, or bad habits, or unfortunate cir- cumstances, have come to feel the full violence of the syphilitic virus. They may break out long after the primary and secondary manifestations of the disease have passed away; anS very similar sores are seen on young persons who have not themselves contracted the disease, but who have inherited it from their parents. Syphilitic ulcers are usually superficial, and often large, but they also occur in a deep and small form. They succeed pustular and tubercular eruptions, and occur over gunmiy deposits in the cellular tissue. Frequently they start I'rom several independent points, but come to coalesce, and form an irregular sore of an ainiular, or crescentic, or horseshoe shape, which incloses portions of healthy or changed intcguinejit ■within its area, and which spreads at one side W'hile it heals at another. The surface of thesf sores is commonly level and tolerably clean, but il deep and destructive may be covered with slough. The edges are abrupt and clean cut; the pain is slight; the obstinacy to heal greater than the ap- pcaiance would promise. Well-marked scabs form by the drying of the discharge, and the surround- ing parts are tolerably healtliy and unchanged, un- less it be the dusky dark colour they commonly present. These sores may be solitary, but are more Usually multiple, and they are very apt to recur. ULCERS. We have, as a further guide to the nature of these ulcers, the history of the previous manifestations of the disease, and the cachexia which accompanies them. The effect of treatment, too, is often highly important, in a diagnostic point of view, as deter- mining their true nature. Scrafulous " or " strumous " ulcers ma)- or may not form over a local deposit of tubercular matter. They are often placed over diseased glands, and may be single, but are much more frequently mul- tiple, many small sores joining to form a large, superficial, ireegular, worm-eaten ulcer, seated on the face, neck, axilla, hips, groins, or limbs, espe- cially near joints in young persons presenting other evidence of the diathesis. The edges of this sore are commonly thin and undermined, of a pink or blue colour, and on the hands and feet may be covered by thickened papillae, which give a coarse, warty look to them which is easily confounded on careless examination with epithelial disease. The granulations are large, flabbj', pale, often exuberant, and easil)' made to bleed. The discharge is thin, whey-like, occasionally curdy. The ulcer is pecu- liarly chronic. It is indolent and painless tniless inflamed. If placed over bone, the periosteum or the osseous tissue may become implicated, and lead to thickenings and disease; and in the face, to un- sightly scars from the adhesions which arise. The surrounding parts are often healthy, but may be thickened, swelled, and changed. The cicatrix is weak, often bossy and hollow, irregular, and very liable to erosion, or destruction by injury, or even exposure to cold. It is not uncommonly bridled, puckered, prominent, arched with pits between. The " vicarious " or " liwmoiThagic" ulcer is that which occurs in females having in general de- ranged or suppressed catamenia—a sympathy ex- isting between the ulcer and the uterine function —and the bleeding often being vicarious of the uterine discharge. The term " haemorrhagic " is also occasionally applied to ulcers that bleed from the erosion of a bloodvessel, venous congestion, scurvy, or that peculiar condition known as the haemorrhagic diathesis. The true vicarious ulcer behaves differently in different cases. In some it is active during the catamenial period, and bleeds; while in others it is during the interval it gives trouble. " Cancerous ulcers form over cancerous masses, or after the bursting out of a cancerous mass, and they will vary considerably in their appearance, according to the form of cancer with which they are associated. Their edges are usually very characteristic, being elevated, sprouting, everted, hard, thick, warty, and irregular. It is in the edges that the activity of the cancerous element is most seen; and though the sore continually in- creases, yet these edges are not destroyed or re- moved. The granulations are hard and coarse, and the surface generally indurated and noilular. The discharge is ichorous, bloody, and foetid, containing cancer cells when examined by the microscope. There is frequently a hard marked scab formed by the drying of the discharge. Tiie parts around it are hard and brawny, and the lymphatic glands enlarged, infiltrated, and hard. They are most connnon in persons beyond middle lile. " Glanderous idcers " occur in connection \vUn glanders, and form one of its most characteristic features. (See Gi.andkks.) The " mercurial ulcer " in some cases very closely