440 PARAPHIMOSIS. atmospheric .air be not drawn into the chest by any irregular or forced inspiration caused by the exer- tions of the patient, or by the necessary moTements of his body directed by the surgeon in order to keep the orifice of the canula in the most depend- ing position. At first the fluid will flow freely enough, especially during expiration. After a time, however, very little, if any, fluid will escape during inspiration by the canula. It should now be temporarily closed by the^finger, and the posi- tion of the patient altered, so as to render the opening dependent, when more fluid will be ob- tained. Lastly, for this purpose pressure may be made on the chest by an assistant, which must be maintained. When the flow entirely ceases, and the surgeon is about to withdraw the canula, the greatest attention is required that the pressure of the assistant be not lessened, and suction power permitted, by which air would inevitably be made to enter the chest. Immediately the canula is re- moved a small pledget of lint should be placed on the wound and secured by adhesive plaster. The en- trance of air into the cavity of the pleura would entail very serious consequences by favouring the de- composition of the pus or other fluid with which it came in contact; it is therefore of great importance that this should be prevented by every means in our power. Instruments have accordingly been con- trived to prevent the possibility of this occurrence. The most simple of these consists of a separate tube with a stopcock, to which an empty bladder is af- fixed. This tube is made to fit the canula exactly, and thus the fluid as it flows is collected in the bladder without contact with the atmosphere, and the possibility of air entering the chest efl'ectually prevented. A still more perfect instrument, by which at the same time that air is excluded from the chest a suction power is had recourse to, for the purpose of removing the fluid from the pleural cavity, is a glass syringe with double action, provided with a tube of entrance and of exit, each armed with a spherical valve. By means of this instrument, nicely adjusted to the canula, the fluid can be drawn out from the chest and evacuated."into a re- ceiving vessel without altering the position of the patient, inasmuch as the fluid will be made to rise into the syringe from the lowest part of the cavity by the suction power exerted on raising the piston of the instrument, while by its depres- sion the fluid will be forced through the tube of exit into a receptacle, the air at the same time being effectually excluded from the chest. M.Chassaignac's drainage tube has also been used to remove the fluid from the chest in cases of em- pyema. The mode of introducing it is as follows. A long curved metallic eye probe is introduced through an intercostal space, previously perforated for this purpose by a trocar; the probe is then di- rected downwards to the most depending part of the cavity containing the fluid. The point of the probe is now made to project near the upper margin ofariband cut down upon. The drainage tube, per- forated by several openings, is attached by a strong silk ligature to the eye of the probe, and is made to enter the cavity of the pleura and to follow the tract of the probe as it is withdrawn. The two ends of the perforated tube are tied together, which thus forms a hollow perforated seton, by which the fluid may be at once removed and as fast as it accu- mulates. Two cases thus treated will be found in vol. xlii. of the Med. Chii: Trans, p. 23J. They occurred in the practice of Dr. Goodfellow at the Middlesex Hospital, and are related by him. A description of the operation is appended by Mr. Campbell de Morgan. The operation has not been sufficiently repeated to enable us to gay that it should be preferred to that ordinarily performed by the trocar. Both Dr. Goodfellow's cases were successful. The advantage of a double opening and continuous discharge of the fluid as it formed were well marked in these cases.] Paracentesis of the abdomen, and that of the tliorax, are described in all treatises on the operor tiona of surgery. The works of Sharp, Le Draii, Bertrandi, Callisen, Richter, Sahatier, Larrey, and Boyer, are particularly deserving: attention. A case in whicb, eleven pints of a fluid resembling whey were discharged from tlie chest by paracentesis, and the patient recovered, is detailed by Dr. Archer iu the Trans, of the King's and Queen's Colleges of Physicians in Ireland, vol. i. art. 1. .fackson, in Philadelphia Journal of the Med. Sciences, vol. i. new series, p. 149.: Operation performed in a Case of Effusion. N. Freidreich, Vorziige des Bauchstiches in der Bauchwassersucht, 12mo. Wurzb. 1816,1817. Laennec on Diseases of the Chest, ed. 2, by Forbes. Good's Study of Medicine, vol. iv. ed. 4. For an account of paracentesis of the bladder, refer to Bladder, Puncture of. Consult also Em- physema, Empyema, Pericardium, Pneu.mo- THORAX, and Wounds of the Thorax. PARAPHIMOSIS, or PARAPHYMOSIS. (From wapa, back, and ^tf^dai, to bridle.) This sig- nifies the case in which the prepuce is drawn quite behind the glans penis, and cannot be drawn for- ward again. (See Phimosis, with which it will be considered.) PARONY'CHIA. (From irapa, near, and Sct/f, the nail.) An abscess at the end of the finger, near the nail. (See Whitlow.) PAROTID DUCT. Every one acquainted with anatomy is aware that, behind the jaw, on each side, a large conglomerate gland is situated, the principal of such as are destined to secrete the saliva, with which the cavity of the mouth and the food which we swallow are continually moistened. The parotid duct crosses the cheek, being situated about one-third from the zygoma, and two-thirds from the basis of the jaw. After passing over the masseter muscle, it pierces the buccinator, and terminates in the mouth by a considerable orifice, opposite the space, between the second and third bicuspid grinders of the upper jaw. As soon as it has passed the masseter, it dives deeply into the fat of the cheek, and, as M. Louis observes, makes an angle before it opens into the mouth. (Mem. de I'Acad. de Cliir. t. iii. p. 457.) On account of its situation, the parotid duct is liable to be wounded, and this has even been done with the surgeon's lancet through ignorance. (See Monro's WoH:s, p. 520.) In cases of this kind, the continual escape of saliva may prevent the wound from healing, and what is called a saliyary fistula would be the perpetual consequence, if no steps were taken to aflbrd relief. The parotid duct has sometimes been ruptured by blows. {(Euvres Chir. de Desaidt. t. ii. p. 1221.) Cases also occur in which the face becomes considerably swollen, in consequence of the saliva insinuating itself into the areolar tissue, just as air does in eniplij-- sema, Respecting the last circumstance 1 shall only just mention, that mischief of this kind maj always be prevented from becoming very exten- sive, by making a depending opening lor the ready escape of the fluid. . _„ With regard to the treatment of salivary fistula.,