SULPHURIC ACID rience shows us has to be given by the mouth for .1 reasonable amount of benefit to ensue. Cautions.—Simple as this little operation is, it may be most disastrous In its results if performed in inappropriate cases, or carelessly as to the amount injected. The fluids to bo injected must be concentrated, and a miscalculation of two or three minims may, therefore, be productive of most serious results. It is impossible to be thoroughly accurate unless a syringe is employed which works by a screw piston, each turn of which should be equivalent to a known quantity of the alkaloid In use. Thus each half-turn of the sy- ringe I use, known as the "Hypodermic" or " Hunter's Syringe,' introduces one-eighth of a grain of morphine beneath the skin, or one-ninetieth of a grain of atropine. No fluid with irritating properties should be injected; no tinctures (unless evaporated); no resinous substances, such as can- nabis indica, colcynthidine, croton oil, creosote, chloroform, &c. These have been tried, and local intlaramation and abscesses resulted. Solutions of the alkaloids should' be as neutral as possible. The quinine injection has in the hands of many produced absces>es, and even worse results, such as extensive sloughing of the part, as happened with some fever cases in Italj', and lockjaw in one or two cases was in America attributed to it. I believe the sulphate or nitrate of strychnia ■was used in those cases. All irritation may, in my opinion, be avoided by using a basic salt of strychnia, the bibasic, the hypophosphate, or the oleate, which preparations have been made for me by Messrs. Bullock and Reynolds. Very often the mischief has doubtless been due to either force employed in the injection, or the clumsiness of the syringe. The most simple fluid may, when in- jected without manipulative dexterity, cause a local induration or gathering, but I have never myself seen diffuse abscess of the cellular tissue produced in the human being. Dr. Ruppaner, late of Boston (now of New York), has lately proposed and has injected many cases of sciatica with irritants to cause deep abscesses to relieve chronic pains; he uses strong solutions of common salt or nitrate of silver. In doing the operation, the syringe should be introduced with a sharp quick movement whilst the skin is made tense; but the piston should be turned slowly. All fluids should have such a strength that five minims should con- tain or exceed the medium dose. Injections of morphine should not be made too frequently in the day. Six hours, even in severe neuralgic cases, should intervene between the repetitions. The only fears of general ill effects from narcotic in- jections are vomiting and super-narcotism; regula- tion of the dose usually avoids these evils. Locally, a minute vein may at times be injured, or an abscess or hard condensation of the cellular tissue caused. Careful observation avoids tho first, and careful preparation of the fluid the second. The same spot should never be twice punctured. I have never seen general or diffuse inflammation of the cellular tissue from the injection of any agent, although I have performed the operation many thousand times, and in one patient, with morphia over 1200 times. It should here be mentioned that the views put forth by the author in this article have been much criticised and differed from from the time they were first promulgated. Uehicr and others in C33 1860, taking the original view of Wood; but Scan- zoni, Moore, Brown-Sequard, and hosts of other observers, have now entirely coincided with me as to the general action of these injections. Dr. Anstie, who has written latest upon this subject confirms the author's views in a most comprehen- sive paper. Perhaps, chief stress should be laid upon the labours of the Hypodermic Committee, ten in number, who, after about two years' investigation, have come to identical views as to the physiology and therapeutics with thoseadvanced by the author of this paper in 18.59. Charles Hunter. BiDLiOGRAPHY.—..ito. Woocl, Ncw Metliod of treatmjr Neuralgia by the direct application of Opiates to the pamful part. Edinb. Med. and Surg-. Journ. 1855, and Brit. Med. Journ. 1858. Rynd, Dubl. Med. Press, March 1843. Charles Hunter, On Narcotic Injections in Neuralgia. Med. Times and Gaz. 1858. Hypodermic Treatment of Disease. Ibid. 1859. On the Speedy Relief of Pain by the Hypo- dermic Method. 1865. J?uller, On Rheumatism, &c. 3rd ed. 1860. Ogle, Med. Times and Gaz. 1860 Behier, Courty, Scanzoni, lie. Bulletin fie Th^rapeu- tique, 1859, 1860, &c. Antoine Huppaner, Hypo- dermic Injections. Boston, 1865. La M^thode hype, dermique. Jousset, (de Bellesme), 1865. Brown- Sequard, Lancet, March 10, 1866. Claude Bernard, Recherches exp. sur I'Opiura et ses Alkaloides, Arch, gdn^rales de M^d. 1864. Scanzoni, WUrzb. Med. Zeitschr. B. ix. 4, 1860. Ogle, Brit. Med. Journ. 1860. Saeman, Deutsche Klinik, 1864. Nassbaun, Bair. artz. InteWigenz, 1863, &c. &c. Report of the Hypodermic Committee of the Royal Medical and Chirurffical Society, 1867. Hunter, On Strychnia Hypodermically Administered. Brit, and For. Med Chir. Trans. 1868. Anstie, The Hypodermic Injec- tion of Remedies, art. in the Practitioner, July 1868. See also art. Opium in this Dictionary. SULPHURIC ACID. The strong sulphu- ric acid is used as a means of extricating from the nitrate of potash, or chloride of sodium, certain gases for the purpose of purifying the air of sick rooms, or infected places. A few practitioners have also sometimes employed it, blended with sixteen times Its weight of lard, as a local application for the cure of scabies. One drachm of it, mixed with au ounce of lard, is sometimes rubbed upon diseased joints, and with considerable effect, when the right cases are selected. (See Joints.) As a caustic, this acid is not generally eligible, because it is difficult to limit its operation exactly to the parts which are intended to be destroyed. A few years ago, a proposal was made to apply it along the outside of the eyelid, in cases of trichiasis, so as to produce a slough and subsequent ulcer, the cicatrisation of vvhich would draw out the inverted tarsus. In this way, an instantaneous amend- ment in the position of the eyelid is sometimes produced. I have seen cases, in which the experi- ment was tried; but, whether it was owing to the acid not having been sufficiently applied, or other causes, the method did not answer so well as the usual plan of removing a part of the integuments with a cutting instrument. Sulphuric acid has also been employed in the cure of ectropium. Diluted sulphuric acid is frequently employed as an ingredient in gargles. It is also commonly exhibited with the view of checking passive haj- morrhages, and profuse nocturnal sweats in hectic fever. The dose is from ten to thirty drops. In cases of poison by sulphuric acid, the most successful treatment consists in making the patient drink large quantities of water, in which calcined magnesia is suspended. Should this hist medicine however, nut be at hand, snap, blended with