382 OPHTHALMOSCOPE The returning raj's, rendered convergent by the refracting media, pass through the hole in the mirror to the object lens behind it, and form beyond this an inverted image of the fundus. This image is received upon a plate of ground glass at the back of the camera, and when, by movement of the objective, the best possible position is ob- tained, the ground glass is exchanged for a pre- pared plate in the ordinary way, and the image is fixed. This apparatus is especially useful for demon- strations of the inverted image, for exact raeasui'e- ments, and for drawings. The Ophthalmoscope of Follin.—A new instru- ment contrived by Follin, for praising which the French can hardly find words enough, is, in essentials, nothing more than Liebreich's ophthal- moscope, with some small modifications. The body of the apparatus consists of two brass tubes sliding one over the other by a rack. The tubes are blackened within, and contain dia- phragms with large central openings. At the ex- tremity, there is placed a bi-convex lens fixed in a brass setting, and movable on its vertical axis by means of a milled head underneath. At the other end there is a glass concave mirror, covered everywhere but at the centre, and likewise move- able on its vertical axis. The entire body is made to turn upon a stand, and can be raised and lowered by the rack movement. By a screw, the stand is secured to a table. From the lower pai-t of the vertical stand there proceeds a horizontal arm supporting the second upright, which carries a small socket, covered with leather, as a chin- holder. By means of a screw on the horizontal bar, the patient can be drawn towards, or re- moved from the object lens, and a similar arrange- ment op. an upright provides for raising and lower- ing the head. Behind the mirror is attached a ring to carry any necessary convex or concave ocular lens ; and on the side turned towards the flame there is a small semicircular plate of metal to screen the observer from the light. The body of the apparatus is provided with a slender jointed stem, surmounted by a knob, to serve as an object to steady the eye of the patient. By means of a prism adapted to the back of the LiebreicWs small Ophtliahnoscope consists of a small concave metallic mirror, protected at the back by a bronze covering, and screwed to a simple handle 12 centimetres in length. The mirror has a central perforation 2^ millimetres in diameter, with a sharp edge ; and the larger per- foration of the bronze setting is sloped down to it. The reflecting surface is 3 centimetres in diameter, and has a focal length of 8". To the edge of the bronze setting is attached a jointed limb, carrymg a small spring-clip for holding any ocular lens that it may be necessary to place behind the mirror. The whole is sold in a portable case, which con- tains also two object lenses, 1^" and 2" bi-convex, and five ocular lenses, a 12" bi-convex, and 6", 8", 10", and 12" bi-concave. GalenzowskVs Oj/MIialmoscope which was only introduced in 1862, presents the tubular arrange- ment in its most compact and convenient form. It bears a general resemblance to Hasner's, but with the fullowing differences ■.—the end of the tube that carries the object lens is prolonged beyond it and sloped to fit the orbital ridge of the patient, so as absolutely to exclude side light. The lens itself has a movement backwards and forwards, and can also be turned on its vertical axis. The tube that contains the mirror draws in and out by two or three slides like those of a telescope, so as to combine great range of movement with com- parative lightness and portability. The Ophthalmoscope of Coccius.—It consists of a small square plane mirror, 14 Paris lines in diameter, and perforated in the centre. The opening is two Paris lines in diameter, and its front margin is somewhat bevelled. The mirror is fixed in a thin plate of brass, having on its lower border a projection, which, by means of a screw, is fastened to a stem. This stem is 1^ Paris lines in thickness, and, including the portion that holds the mirror, 21"' in length. At its lower end it mirror, the image that is formed can be reflected upon the surface of the table. The most im- portant difference between the ophthalmoscopes of Liebreich and Follin is not mentioned in the text. In the former instrument, the portion of tube that carries the object lens is fixed to the stand, and the portion that carries the mirror is movalile. In Follin's ophthalmoscope, this arrangement is reversed. In tlie one case, therefore, the ad- justment moves the mirror nearer to, or furtiier from the stationary lens ; and, in the other, tiie adjustment moves the lens backwards and forwards between the mirror and the e3'e of the patient. Each construction has some advantages, and it would not be difficult to combine them in a single instrument. T!te Ophthalmoscope of i)em/.—It consists of a glass concave mirror 35 millimetres in diiimeter, with a focal length of 25 centimetres, and a central perforation of 3 millimetres. The mirror is attached to a handle, to the back of which is attached a clip, turning on a pivot, and serving to hold an ocular lens. carries a cross-piece, which can be secured by a screw to the upper extremity of a handle. The cross-piece is 18 Paris lines long, with a slit ex- tending half its length, by which, after loosening the screw connecting it to the handle, the convex lens it carries can be moved nearer to, or farther from the mirror. This convex lens, of 5" focal length, rests in a spring-clip upon a stand, so that the centre of the lens is opposite the opening of the mirror. All the metallic parts of the instrument are coloured black by caustic potash, and when taken to pieces, the whole can be carried in a small box. Recently, Coccius's ophthalmoscope has been made after a difterent manner. A thin blackened plate of brass, pierced with an opening 4"' in diame- ter, is, by means of its grooved margin, made to slide upon the edge of the mirror. The outer side is connected by a double hinge to a spring-clip, for the reception of a lens. By sliding this apparatus over the mirror, the illumination is diminished ; while by placing a convex lens of 5" focal length in the clip, a collecting lens is placed m union with the mirror itself, and tlie cross-piece and the con- vex lens are rendered unnecessary. The spring- clip can also be turned behind the mirror, and employed to hold an octdar lens. Coccius has still more lately employed with f^%^^J^'''^«^^ a smaller plane mirror, to which the collecting lens is united bv a ball-and-socket joint. In use the collecting lens is turned towards the flame, which should be at least some inches farther