JOINTS, EXCISION OF. and there, but there js no motion at the wist, and in some cases the fingers have remained stiff. Re- section of the wrist, however, is believed to be ISl worthy of further trial, and Mr. Fergusson writes "in whatever state the hand might be left, I be- lieve it would prove more valuable, in all respects, than any artificial substitute." He considers a hand with a stiif wrist as decidedly better than no hand at all, an opinion in which the majority of surgeons will fully agree. The kind of operation will very much depend upon the amount of disease present. If it is con- fined to a few of the carpal bones, they are easily enough removed by the e.xtension of any fistulous openings over them. When the lower ends of the radius and ulna are involved, a different operation is required. Mr, Fergusson practises a single incision on the ulnar side of the joint, about six inches long, which he thinks affords ample room between the flexors and extensors, without dividing a tendon of either, to remove the whole of the carpal bones, and even th^ articular surfaces of the bones of the forearm, or of the metacarpal range. He recom- mends the cutting forceps to divide the bones, in preference to the saw. There is but little risk of hc-emorrhage, and in the event of any interosseal or other branch being wounded, there will be no difficulty in applying a ligature. (See Ferffusso)i's Bract. Surgery, ed, 4, p. 295.) Mr. Erichsen recommends and practises a horse- shoe flap, with its convexity downwards on the dorsal aspect of the joint, to be dissected up without dividing the extensor tendons of the fin- gers ; the articulation is thus freely exposed; the carpal bones may be removed, and the lower ends of the radius and ulna clipped off. (See Science and Art of Stirgery, ed. 3, p. 708.) In the case of a boy operated upon by Mr. Stan- ley, he made a semicircular incision above the wrist, turning back a considerable flap, together with tendons and integuments; he thus excised seven bones of the wrist and the flap was replaced. (The Lancet, vol. i. 1855, p. 288.) Mr. Simon excised the wrist of a boy, by means of two long incisions on the anterior and posterior aspects of the joint, reaching a couple of inches above the wrist, back and front, to the centre of the palm and dorsum of the hand, the incisions being so managed as to run between the tendons coursing down to their destination. Of all the different operations, however, which have been performed for excising the wrist, in- cluding a longitudinal incision on either side of the joint, preference is given to that practised by Mr. Butcher of Dublin, and which is called by his name. In his patient the wrist was exces- sively swollen, with numerous discharging sinuses aroiind ; the radio-carpal articulation grated on motion ; a probe introduced into almost any sinus came into contact with roughened, crumbling, and broken-down bone; but the metacarpal bones and phalanges the flexors of the fingers, and all the po^yers of the thumb were unimpaired. A curved incision was made, commencing a little below the wrist, two lines on the ulnar side of the extensor intcrnoflii pollicis tendon, going close to the carpal extremity of the metacarpal bones, and then sweeping upwards so as to finish below the end of the uln.a fully half an inch higher np than the point where ,t began. " The (lap thus marked out was rapidly dissected np, and consisted of the integuments, areolar tissue, and extensor tendons of the four fingers, together with large deposits of fibrine." The diseased bones were at once brought into view; the soft parts were next liberated from the back of the radius and ulna, together with the second extensor of the thumb, from the osseous groove in which it lay. By forcing down the hand the carious ends of the radius and ulna were made to project, the soft parts were cautiously divided close to the bones, so as not to injure the radial and ulnar arteries, and the ends of the bones were then removed by the saw which goes by Mr. Butcher's name. The next proceeding was to re- move the carpal bones, excepting the trapezium, which was healthy ; the flaps of the wound were now placed in position, properly secured, and the hand and arm placed upon a padded splint in a prone position. (See Mr. Butcher's papers on Excisions of Joints, in Dublin Quar. Jour, for 1855 and 1859.) Although the wrist often remains stiff after re- section, the advantage of Mr. Butcher's operation is, that it leaves the extensor muscles of the thumb intact ; the fingers become stift'eued in a bent position, yet, with the aid of the thumb, they are available for writing and many other purposes. As showing the advantages of the operation, a middle-aged man, in whom Mr. Erichsen removed the whole of the carpus and a portion of the meta- carpal bones, recovered with a very useful hand, with some power of flexing and extending the wrist, and with very considerable mobility of the fingers. Such good results, however, are rare, the great obstacle to success being the superficial character of the articulation, and the close con- nection between the flexor and extensor tendons. This it is which explains the consolidation of all the parts during the process of cicatrisation, and the necessary impairment of the utility of the hand, which it is so desirable to retain, if possible.] [Excision of the Hip Joint.—In 1742, for the first time, this important operation was resorted to as mentioned by Dr. Schlicting. {Phil. Tran., vol. xlii.) This case was unknown until within the past year. The operation was proposed (but not performed) by Mr. Charles White of Man- chester, in 1769. In 1818, Mr, Anthony White excised the hip joint at the Westminster hospital.] The patient was a boy whose femur had been dislocated from disease of the hip, the head of the bone lying on the dorsum of the ilium. There were several fistulous openings in the hip through which the bone could be detected in a state of caries. He had suffered from the disease for three years, and was in an exhausted condition. Mr. White, reflecting that the original structure of the joint had been annihilated, that the boy would die if no attempt was made to get rid of the diseased head of the femur, and, even if he lived, the limb fixed in this manner across the other would bo an incumbrance only, determined to operate. Being assisted by Mr, Travers, he cut down upon, and exposed the head and neck of the femur, and hav- ing sawn through the bone just below the tro- clianterminor, ho raised the detached fragment with an elevator, and extracted it. At the end of a year he recovered, and so useful a new joint had formed, that with tiio assistance of a high-heeled shoe he could walk well, nnd execute the common