PUPIL. 494 forceps, through an incision in the cornea, will be preferable, on account of preserving the trains ])areiicy of the lens," {Synopsis of the Dis, o/ilie Eye, p. 343.) Professor Maunoir, of Geneva, published a suc- cessful case, in wliich an artificial pupil was formed, and a caseous cataract extracted. '■ I operated (says he) on the right eye in the following manner. The patient being seated on a chair, and having the head inclined upon a cushion, I placed myself behind him, and with the fori-finger of the left hand confining the upper eyelid, wiiilst an assist- ant depressed the lower, I made with the right hand a semicircular incision in the lower and ex- ternal part of the cornea. This incision occupied a full third of the circumference of the membrane. On re-opening the eye, the iris was seen projecting a little from the wound in tlie cornea. I replaced it with the blunt point of my scissors. Intro- ducing the two blades closed into the anterior chamber, and then opening them, I caused the pointed blade to penetrate the iris, leaving the blunt blade between that membrane and the cor- nea; then closing the scissors, a perpendicular incision of the iris resulted, describing a little more than half the chord of an arc of two-fifths of the circumference of the iris, traced on the side of the temple. The first incision not having occa- sioned the formation of a pupil of the necessary size, I introduced the scissors into the iris, a second time a little obliquely, and immediately the pupil appeared of a satisfactory form and size, but ex- hibiting the crystalline entirely opaque. Thesecond stroke of the scissors had divided the capsula; I therefore introduced the small curette, in order to endeavour to destroy what adiiered of the crystal- line to the shrunk and contracted circumference of the old pupil. This attempt did not succeed. Lastly, I effected a passage of a portion of the opaque lens, by means of a slight pressure with a large scoop, exercised on the lower part of the globe of the eye. The crystalline, which was of a cheesy consistence, came out with the greatest ease, and though it was not entirely removed, yet a sufficient quantity was discharged to leave the artificial pupil of a most perfect black. This new pupil was on the side of the temple; and at tiie exterior and lower part of the iris." (See il/e(/. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. ?Mb, et seq.) In tliis communication are also two other cases, in which Maunoir operated with success, though they were complicated with cataracts, and adhesions of the lens to the iris. In some remarks, annexed by Scarpa to the preceding account, the latter ex- presses his opinion, that it is not necessary to be scrupulous, whether the crystalline be partly, or entirely opaque, whenever the capsule is opaque, and adheres to the iris, behind the edge of the in- terior and inclosed pupil. Amongst other late opinions, professed by Scarpa, we find the following: that no instru- ment is so proper as the scissors for making an incision in the iris; that, when the case is not com- plicated by cataract, a very small wound in the cornea is sufficient; that the formation of a triangu- lar edge in the iris, by means of a double incision with the scissors, is the mo.st easy and least painful of all the methods hitherto proposed for obtaining ^ptrmanant artificial pupil; and lastly, that specks of the cornea present no obstiiclc, because the ar- tificial pupil may be made opposite the transparent part of that membrane. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 320, 3-21.) As I have already noticed, the contraction of the natural pupil is sometimes occasioned by the iris being stretched towards some point of the cornea, to which it is adherent. This state, as Scarpa observes, is most frequently accompanied with partial opacity of the cornea, around the ad- hesion, or prolapsus of the iris, as well as with opacity of the lens and its capsule. At other times, however, these internal parts preserve their natural transparency, notwithstanding the deviation of the natural pupil. In the latter case, the pupil, though removed from its situation, is not in reality obliterated, but merely very inuch contracted, and incapable of admitting the q\iantity of li;^lit neces- sary for vision, especially if tlie opposite part of the cornea be slightly opaque. In such an ex- ample Scarpa recommends making a small incision in the cornea at the most commodious part, when with Maunoir's scissors closed, and constructed with little buttons at the ends of both the blades, an endeavour is to be made to break the adhesion e.xisting between the iris and the cornea. If this can be effected, the natural pupil generally re- covers its former situation and size; but, if the adhesion he very firm, Scarpa introduces one of the blades within the contracted pupil, behind the posterior surface of the iris, until the other blade has reached the confines of the cornea with the sclerotica. The iris is then to be divided in the form of the letter V, without at all injuring the capsule or lens, both of which are transparent. {On Diseases of the Eyes, p. 384, ed. 2, transl. by Briggs.) When, after extraction of the cataract, the pupil has been dragged down in this manner by adhesion to the lower third of the cornea, the upper two-thirds of which are transparent, Dr . Monteath, of Glasgow, has succeeded five times in forming an artificial pupil, and restoring vision by making a small opening in the upper and outer part of the edge of the cornea, capable of admit- ing Maunoir's eye-scissors, with which the over- stretched fibres of the iris are to be cut across by one simple incision, three lines in length. The cut edges instantly recede, and leave an oval pupil of sufficient size. (See Weller''s Manual, vol. ii. p. 70.) In the cases above specified by Scarpa, Sir Wm. Adams, instead of performing corotoraia, endeavours to separate the iris from the cornea, and then to alter the position of the pupil by draw- ing it towards that part of the cornea which has remained transparent. For this purpose, he punc- tures the cornea about one line in front of the iris, separates the adhesion, and then makes the disen- gaged portion of the iris protrude through the punc- ture, and leaves it there, even using tiie forceps, if necessary, for drawing it out as far as is deemed necessary for its being securely fixed. This method is disapproved of by Scarpa, because a second pro- lapsus of the iris in the same eye appears to him a very serious disease, and rather calculated to in- crease the opacity of the cornea, and ftugment the contraction of the pupil, than afford relief. According to Beer, the excision of a portion of the iris, aonctomia, is particularly indicated in nit cases in which there is a sound transparent lens, as in many examples of synechia anterior, conceal- ment of the natural pupil by a ee.itml opacity ot the corne.a, &c. Beer admits, however, as an ex- ception, tho instances in which the transparent