VENEREAL DISEASE. 983 had positively seen repeated attacks in the same person, which certainly were not relapses, whilst ten considered that an individual could be the sub- ject of true syphilis only once. "■lielupses ; period of safely for iwirriage.—If it be granted that a relapse may occur after the adoption of any mode of treatment, and also when no treatment whatever has been employed, it follows that to no person who has been the subject of true syphilis can immunity from it be positively pro- mised. Yet there may be, and there are degrees of probability with regard to future relapse, and the ([uestion therefore frequently arises as to the period at wliich a man may be warranted in marrying after all the symptoms of disease have disappeared. The answers to this question have been various ; a few witnesses even declared against the safety of marriage at any period ; a large majority concurred in recommending an interval of one year. The subject admits of division into safety as respects imparting the disease in its secondary stage to the other sex, directly through the medium of the secretions, and safety as respects imparting it in- directly, through the fo&tus to the mother. Some witnesses do not admit the former liability, while the majority consider that secondary disease may be directly imparted through the medium of a moist secretion, as from a mucous tubercle, but all agree in the belief that a sypliilitic father, though presenting 110 appearance of disease, may beget a syphilitic child, and that that child, through the medium of its bhiod, may impart the disease to its previously healthy mother. " Syphilis communicable in hoth stages.—Evidence is conclusive to the effect that syphilis may be com- municated by intercourse during either of its stages, local or constitutional. " Treatment of Primary Sures.—The following remarks on the treatment of primary sores contain general views only, and may be the subject of occa- sional exception :— " The local and other varieties of Soft iSore.—The pimple or non-infecting sore (and indeed all sores unmarked by specific induration) should be treated almost entirely by local applications, having for their object to allay pain or inflammation, and pro- tect the sore from injury. Treatment by mercury, as a rule, is not requisite, but exceptional cases occur in which minute or alterative doses tend to accelerate the cure. It is very doubtful whether mercury exercises any useful influence on the purely ulcerative action of primary sores. If re- sorted to at all as a curative agent, it should be administered only in the latter stages o( the sore. There is no remarkable feature in the progress of the inguinal glands towards suppuration which demands comment. Their liability to suppurate, however, renders the destruction of the sore b}' escharotics desirable. Such treatment should only be resorted to in the earliest stage of the sore, and probably not later than two days from its first ap- pearance. In other respects the most judicious treatment of ail soft sores may be said to be negative and local ; the great rule of practice being to watch and observe ; nothing is lost by delay. " A sore of a suspected character siuuil I be care- fully watched, and the first indication of a palpable hardness noted, by the presence of which the pro- bability of future constitutional disease ij indicated. This occasional specific induration of the soft sore occurs usually at its final stage, or stage of cicatri- sation, in which mercurial treatment is rarely adopted by men of experience. As the amount of induration is not usually great, and the sore is in process of cicatrisation, treatment by mercury should be reserved for the prospective constitutional dis- ease, should it present itself hereafter: because the balance of evidence warrants the belief that at this stage of the disease mercurial action in the system cannot avert the occurrence of secondary or constitutional disease. Mercury will neither arrest the progress of glandular enlargement nor prevent suppuration. —[ Vide postea, Treatment of Syphilis, Sect. 16.) " Treatment of tlie Indurated Sore by Mercury,—- In the treatment of the indurated sore, mercury is frequently resorted to, the object being to obtain the absorption of the indurated mass beneath it, in the belief that the induration constitutes the disease to be contended with. " No treatment by mercury, whether moderately or freely administered for this purpose, can give exemption from the liability to constitutional dis- ease. The service rendered by the mercury is, therefore, limited to its influence on the sore and the induration. " The weight of evidence on this subject pre- ponderates in favour of the advantage of mercurial treatment in postponing or modifying the severity of the constitutional disease. On the other hand, it is contended by a minority of authorities that mercurial treatment of the hard sore neither pro- longs the interval of apparent health, nor modifies the severity of the future disease. '•The balance of these two opinions is r.ither favourable to treatment of the primary hard sore by mercury. The alternative to the employment of mercury consists in simple local treatment, the avoidance of local irritants, whether medical or mechanical, attention to cleanliness, and to the improvement of the general health. If treatment by mercury be selected, the agent should be administered more freely to a strong and vigorous person than to one of delicate habit ; and whatever the mode of exhibition, whether employed internally by the mouth, by inunction, or by means of vapour-baths, the first indication of its presence in the system should be accompanied by a reduc- tion of the quantity employed, and the reduced dose maintained so long as an impression is made on the deposit, and the bodily health of the indi- vidual remains undisturbed. If administered in increased doses the constitution will suffer in pro- portion to their magnitude. There is no evidence more general and more conclusive than that which dictates the necessity for maintaining such control- ling influence over the action of mercury. This principle should be persisted in nn.il the induration is entirely removed by the absorbents. " Unless marked by manifest induration ab initio, there is no warrant for the resort to mercurial treat- ment, in any form of primary sore, except as an alterative. " It is both a salutary and a froqnent practice, to support the health of persons under mercurial treatment, by the resort to such medicinal or diet- etic agency as will promote strength, and antagonise the depressing influence of the mercury. Biirk, iron, wine, good beer, are commonly resorted to, and especially is their protective influence required in tlie case of persons of impaired health, or of naturally weak constitutional powers.