TETANUS. to tlie wound. The application of caustics, says he, may be practised with advantage on^ the first attack of the symptoms, the same precept being observed as in making the incisions. Bleeding, if necessary, and the use of topical emollients and anodynes, may follow these operations; though in general they have little effect. {Man. de CUr. MilUuire, t. i. p. 249.) In the third volume of this interesting work, p. 297, &c. are several cases, in which the cautery was employed with success. We must not conclude, however, that much de- pendence ought to be placed upon the use of the cautery, since Larrey observes in another place: "The moxa and, actual cauter}', rt'commended by the Father of Medicine, have been equally un- availing. The moxa was employed at Jaffa upon three wounded men : yet the disease followed its usual course, and terminated fatally. " I have cited a striking instance of the inef- ficacy of the second method, in a case of opistho- tonos." (T. i. p. 258.) This author adduces some cases which tend to support the opinion that tetanus occasionally proceeds from the inclu- sion of a large nerve in the ligature applied to an artery. The son of General Darmaguac died of tetanus consequent to amputation, and, upon ex- amining the stump, the median nerve was found included in the ligature with the artery, and its extremity reddish and swollen. (Mem. de Cliir. Mil. t. iii. p. 287.) In another ease, Larrey sus- pected the tetanic disorder to proceed from a prin- cipal branch of the crural nerve being tied toge- ther with the femoral artery, and he cut the ligature; but the relief was only partial and tem- porary. The cautery was therefore applied deeply to the whole surface of the stump. A marked amendment took place a few hours afterwards, and the patient recovered. A diaphoretic mixture, with camphor and opium, was also exhibited. (T. iii. p. 297.) Amongst other local means for the relief of tetanus, I may notice the employment of blisters as near as possible to the wound, or their appli- cation, or that of the ointment of cantharides, to the wound itself. Almost all modern writers have observed, that tetanus is accompanied at its com- mencement and in its progress with an interrup- tion or total cessation of suppuration in the wound. Hence the indication to excite this process again, by the means which I have specified. Larrey seems to have adopted both plans ; but he parti- cularly applied the ointment of cantharides to the wound itself in an early stage of the symptoms, and in cases where there not only was a suppression of the discharge, but where he suspected the nerves of the wounded part had suffered from exposure to the cold damp air on the detachment of the sloughs. For facts in favour of these local means, the reader must refer to the first and second volumes of the Mcmoires de C'/iininjie MilUaire, It appears also fi-om Larrey's experience in Egypt, that poultices, made of the leaves of to- bacco, and applied to the wounds of persons la- bouring under tetanus, were followed by no advan- tageous effect. The alkalies also proved of no service. (T. i. p. 257.) Dr. Rush recommended the wound to be dilated and dressed with oil of turpentine (sec Trans, oj ik'i American Pkilos. Socie/i/, vol. ii.) ; and, for this purpose, some of our naval surgeons liavo used tincture of opium. 717 A great degree of obscurity prevails respecting the most eligible general or conslitutional plans of treating tetanus, and I am afraid it must be con- fessed that our internal remedies cannot be more depended upon than the local means already de- scribed. This opinion is fully confirmed by advert- ing to the discouraging fact, recorded by Sir James McGrigor, viz. that out of several hundreds of cases which occurred in the British army during the late campaigns in Spain and Portugal, there were very few which terminated successfully, or in which the reniedies, however varied, seemed to have any beneficial influence, after the disease had made progress. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 449.) In the same countries. Dr. O'Beirne witnessed two hundred cases, not one of which recovered. (Dull. Hospital Reports, vol. iii.) Hennen acknowledges that he never saw a case of " acute symptomatic tetanus " recover ; and, with respect to the same form of disease. Dr. Dickson states, that he found all plans of treatment followed by unqualified disappointment. The possibility of doing good by internal medi- cines is sometimes totally prevented by the inability of swallowing. In short, the present state of our knowledge respecting tetanus will not allow us to indulge much hope of cure from any means yet discovered, except in the chronic form of the com- plaint ; the instances of success in the treatment of acute tetanus being by no means numerous, and not the result of any determinate plan of treat- ment. Of all medicines, opium is that which has raised the greatest expectation, and been the most exten- sively tried. Indeed, there cannot be a doubt, that, in many chronic, mild cases, it is competent to effect a cure. But, for this purpose, it is abso- lutely necessary that its use be begun from the earliest appearance of the symptoms ; that it be given in very large doses ; and that the doses be repeated at short intervals, so that the system be kept constantly under the influence of the remedy. It is, indeed, astonishing how the sj^stem, when labouring under a tetanic disease, will resist the operation of this and other remedies, which, in its ordinary state, would have been more than suffi- cient to overpower and destroy it. Patients with tetanus will bear with impunity quantities of opium which at any other time would be cer- tainly fatal. Instances are upon record of five ten, and even twenty grains, being taken every two or three hours, for many days, without any extraordinary narcotic effects being produced upon the sensoriura. It is alwaj-s advisable, however, to begin witli comparatively moderate doses, such opium. 18 forty or sixty drops of the tincture of which may be repeated at intervals of three or four hours, and increased at each repetition, until some sensible effect is produced on the spasms. It seems requisite to augment the dose rapidly, us the disease presses upon us every hour, and no time must be lost while there is yet a chance of controlling its fury. The approaching closure of the jaw, and dilHculty of deglutition, which may increase so aa to render it hardly possible to intro- duce medicines into the stomach, are additional motives for pushing our remedies before such ob- stacles arise. (Reos's Ci/clopccdia, art. Tetanus.) I once supposed it possible to overcome this impe- diment by introducing a flexible catheter down the oojophngus from one of the nostrils ; but the