TALIPES pecially the ligament hetwepti the astragnliis and navicular bone, are found to be elongated in pro- portion to the degree and duration of the deformity; while those on the plantar aspect of the foot are oontracted and shortened to a corresponding ex- tent. Tlie lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint are also elongated in their anterior, and contracted in their posterior portions. The posterior ligaments of the ankle-joint also become structurally short- ened, in adaptation to the altered relations of the OS calcis and tibia, which at the margin of the ankle-joint are in contact in severe cases. Tlie muscles are found in very variable con- ditions, corresponding to the cause producing the deformity, whether paralytic, spasmodic, or merely nial-position; and also to the length of time the de- formity has existed. They will be found to pre- sent every possible deviation from the standard of health, through all the changes of fatty degenera- tion, and some other obscure structural changes, to the complete destruction and removal of their proper tissue, in place of which fatty and fibrous tissue are chiefly substituted. The changes of fatty degeneration are most marked in the cases of paralytic origin. In spasmodic cases, even of many years' duration, the changes of fatty degene- ration appear to be very slowly and imperl'ectjy developed, but they are found in the most con- tracted and least-used muscles. T/ie contracted muscles, which become perma- nently shortened by adapted atrophy, are the gas- trocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, in the calf of the leg, producing elevation of the os calcis ; and the short flexor in the sole of the foot, producing or keeping up the contraction in the longitudinal arch. In this condition the plantar fascia is also con- tracted. P.4TH0L0GY.—Etiology; congenital origin.—It is considered by sooie orthopaedic authorities in this country that talipes equinns never occurs as a congenital deformity. My colleague Mr. Tanipl'n observes, " I have never met with pure talipes equinus congenital;" and my late colleague, Mr. Lonsdale—who published in the Za«ce«(September 1, 185.5) a statistical account of 3,000 cases of various deformities which had been treated by him, conjointly with myself, in the Orthopaedic Hospital—did not record any e.xample of congeni- tal equinus. It is frequently said to be of con- genital origin by unobserving parents, but upon close enquiry we generally learn that the heel was not observed to be raised until " the child began to put his feet to the ground." Nevertheless, Drs. Little, Duval, Guerin, and other authorities have recorded cases which they believe from satisfactory evidence to have been of congenital origin, and I have seen two or three cases of the same kind, i.e. cases of congenital equinus, in which there has been no marked tendency either to inversion or eversion of the foot, and in" which the tendo- ./\chillis has been the only contracted tendon. Therefore, I admit that talipes equinus does oc- casionally, though very rarely, occur as a congeni- tal deformity. Talipes equinus, in its ordinary non-congenital form, may be produced by any of the numerous causes upon which the other non-congenital de- .formities of the foot are known to depend, and which have been arranged by Dr. Little in two series—viz., first, those indirectly aj/'ccting the ankle- joint through the muscular or nervous system; ns VOL. n. 673 spasm, paralysis, wotnids of muscles, scrofulous abscesses in the course of the muscles and in the neighbourhood of the joint, long-retained position, &c.,—and secondly, those directhj affecting the joint, as chronic inflammation, scrofulous disease, rheu- matic and gouty inflammation of the joint, injuries of the joint, &c. Progno.sis.—The prognosis in cases of talipes equinus must have reference to two very distinct points—viz., the cure of the deformity; and tlie probability of the patient gaining complete volun- tary power over the foot and the muscles of the lower e.\tremit3', many of which are frequently in- volved in the general affection of which the de- formity is the result. With respect to the cure of the deformity, the prognosis may always be favourable, except where bony ankylosis has taken place—a very rare con- dition. The age of the patient and duration of the deformity will, of course, influence the duration of the treatment, extending the time from six weeks, which is generally sufficient in young persons, to three or four months in some rimd cases in the adult. With respect to the second point—viz., the pro- bahility of the patient gaining complete voluntary pmver in the foot, and vsefubiess of tlie limb, after the cure of the deformity—the prognosis must de- pend upon a variety of circumstances, more es- pecially tlie cause producing the deformity, whether indirectly or directly affecting the articiilati.m; and in the former class, which are principally of spasmodic or paralytic origin, more particularly must it depend upon the number of muscles in- volved, and the precise condition of such muscles. Treatment.—The means employed to remedy this distortion of the foot may be arranaed under the three following heads, viz.—-opera'tive, me- chanical, and physiological; a combination which also applies generally to all deformities of the foot, but in very variable proportions in different cases'. Tendons, S^c. requiring division.—ihe only im- portant tendon requiring division is the tendo- Achilhs, with its small accompanying tendon the plantaris; the latter is generally included in the section of the tendo-Achillis, but sometimes yields before the knife without division, and may be felt as a very tense little cord which had better be divided. In many cases, also, it is necessary to make a free division of the plantar fascia and short flexor musde in the sole of the foot. In the more severe cases in which the arch of the foot IS much increased, this had better be done as a separate stage of treatment, before dividing the tendo-Achillis, which serves the purpose of fixing the OS calcis, so as to offer a firm resistance to the pressure exerted against the anterior portion of the foot with the object of expanding, or as it were unfolding, the arch of the foot from the transverse tiirsal joint—the mechanical centre of motion in this contraction. After the division of the tendo-achillis, a com- press of lint should be applied and retained in position by a strip of adhesive plaister. The foot and leg should then be bandaged, and a well- padded splint applied along the anterior part of the foot and leg, so as to keep the foot in an ex- tended position, and the divided endsof the tendon approximated. This should not be disturbed till the third day, unless the pressure becomes uncom- fortable, or the foot swells. The cutaneous X X punc-