roid in particular, and as the space supplied is some what limited for the object we have in view, we have the trachea always as our guide. {Ele- mens cle Put/iol. Chiiurg. t. iii. p. 407.) 1. Boyer recommended the incision to be made between the sterno mastoid and sterno-hyoid. The mode of operating most generally preferred iu Great Britain is as follows : The position of tiio patient being such as was before described, an in- cision is made to the inner side of tlie sterno-niastoid and between it and the trachea, from tlie upper border of the thyroid cartilage down to within an inch an a half of the sternum, and dividing the superficial tissues,—skin, platysma, and fasciaj. These, with any vein which appears, are to be drawn aside by an assistant, with broad copper spatula;. The cervical fascia is to be divided along the outer border of the sterno-thyroid muscle, and the head bent somewhat forwards, so as to relax the tissues. Some operators divide both the omo- hyiid, sterno hyoid and sterno-thyroid, in order to obtain more room, and though no positive harm may thereby be done, yet no greater division of nmsculur or other tissue should be made than is absolutely necessary. The assistant niaj', bv the use of spatula?, greatly increase the space for the operator. The wound should, at all the stages, and especially the deeper ones, be carefully sponged so as to affori a clear view of the parts lying before the knife. The carotid is to be carefully avoided, as It lies on tlie outside of the incision, and the thyroid gland drawn inwards, while the veins are to be held to whichever side is most convenient, and the niferior thyroid artery in the lower part of the wound carefully avoided. If an instrument is to be introduced into the canal, in order to facilitate Its incision, as recommended first by Vacca-Ber- linghieri (Greefe and Walters, Jour. Bv. p. 7I-2), now 13 the proper time for the manoeuvre. The object held in view in the use of an instrument is to_ supply the place of a projecting foreign bodv, without which the surgeons before Vacca's tinie would not operate. Vacca's instrument resembled that iised by lithotoiuists in the supra-pubic operation, but a considerable variety in construction has since been suggested. In some an ivory ball is made to press outwards in the wound, in others a grooved staff. In some it is proposed to pierce the walls from within outwards, by means of a con- cealed blade. If any assistance is required, a male catheter is quite sufBcient for the purpose. There can be little doubt but that such aid is often of great consequence, as the canal is very small when relaxed, very difficult to recognise, and not easy to open when found. Its walls lie in close contact, and thus it has happened that an operator has passed to the one side, or passed altogether through both its walls. The trachea will serve as a guide to the oesophagus, when no instrument is introduced by the mouth. The rings and colour will distinguish the trachea, and then, immediately behind and between it and the vertebr.il column, the (esophagus will be found. The contractions of the tube, and the hard feeling it imparts if the patient attemps to swallow, will also serve to dis- tinguish it. The recurrent nerve, lying in the grooves between the trachea and CDsopliagus, must be avoided with care. A small opening is at first made into the (esophagus, over the foreign body if possible, and afierwards eiihirged to the iiecessarv extent by blunt-pointed scissors, or a probe-pointed (ESOPHAGUS. 373 bistour, When the foreign body has been re- moved by means of curved polypus forceps, or any other appropriate method which may present itself, the wound 111 the oisophagus is to be closed but the external incision allowed to remain open. No instrument for feeding the patient should be in- troduced either by the mouth or wound, but enemata used, and ice milk sucked in small quan- ties for a day or two, care being at the same time taken not to allow the patient to be starved, but a tube at once passed, and strong beef tea thrown in, if he shows signs of exhaustion. It may be remarked in conclusion, that if foreign bodies are firmly impacted in the oesophagus, so that they cannot at the moment be removed, and if the patient runs the risk of sHfTocation, tracheo- tomy must be performed, in order to preserve life in the first instance, and the vital functions be re-established before renewing our attempts at ex- traction. Polypi of the oesophagus are rarely met with. When present they are usually of the cellulo- fihrous description, and attached by a lon-^ stalk. The symptoms which they produce de° velope themselves slowly, and are those of ob- struction, with a sensation of a foreign body being the cause thereof. Sometimes we have emaciation, persistent nausea, and vomiting added. Fre- quently the symptoms are very obscure, and the cause difiicult to verify, but occasionally a careful exploration with instruments will satisfy the sur- geon that he has a polypus to deal with, in that some movable body is present, that the obstacle to the freedom of the passage is not due to stricture and that there is no evidence of malignant disease' Polypi thus situated should be removed if possil ble by means of forceps—the foot stalk being seized and twisted. Or they may be snared with wire or a ligature applied to the stalk, and the growth then excised with the knife or galvanic cautery or as a last resource, if the danger of suffocation' be great, oesophagotomy may be performed. A certain amount of obstruction may be caused in the (esophagus from an hypertrophy of the epethelial lining occurring in patches, and which has been mistaken for warts and cysts. This is a rare pathological condition, but is yet occasionally seen. •* Wounds of lite wsuphagus may be of any descrip. tion, incised, punctured, &c., and are liable to serious complications from the depth at which the tube lies, and the important parts which surround It. A wounding agent can hardly penetrate from the surface without injuring some blood-vessel or nerve of importance, though, in the case of wounds from within, the injury in the first instance may be confined to the walls of the canal. Gunshot wounds of the oesophagus are usually very serious not only on account of the immediate destruction they cause, but also from the complications which are so apt to attend them. In cases of suicide the (Esophagus is occasionally partially or even wholly divided, and yet even in the latter casB recovery has sometimes followed. When a wound of the (Esophagus opens freelv on the surface, the ingcsta will escape, but if the aperture in the soft piirts bo not free, then most troublesome abscesses and sinuses are liable to form, and even fatal inflamniatioii or gangrene from