TUMOR. 795 coagulable lymph, rendered vascular by the growth of vessels into it; and that their future structure depended on the particular power and action of the vessels. According to Sir Astley Cooper, " they are not composed of fatty matter only; but the adipose membrane is increased, and tiieir structure is similar, only somewhat more compact, to that of the fatty membrane in other parts of the body." {Med. C/iir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 440.) This fact is entirely opposed to the doctrine which ascribes the origin of tumors to hydatids and their trans- formation. Adipose tumors always have a thin capsule, formed by the simple condensation of the surrounding cellular substance. It adheres very slightly to the swellings, and, chiefly by means of vessels, which pass through this membranous covering in order to enter the tumor. The ves- sels are so small, and the connection so slight, that, in removing the tumor, no dissection is requisite, as ihe operator may easily put his fingers between the swelling and its capsule, so as to break the little vascular connections, and entirely detach the disease. Some individuals seem to have a dispo- sition to the formation of fatty tumors upon various parts of their bodies; a memorable ex- ample of which is recorded in the Revue midicale. The patient was a young woman, aged 18, whose constitution was not in any way remarkable. Although very lean, and of the middle stature, she weighed 169 French pounds. Between her shoulders were two tumors, eight inches long, and three broad. A third, of less size, was situ- ated near the right arm-pit. A fourth arose from the inferior angle of the shoulder-blade, and was 1.5 inches long, and six broad. A fifth, lower down, was six inches long, and five broad. The sixth, which was larger than a man's head, was situated upon the right hip. The seventh, a small one, was below the right trochanter major. The eighth, a prodigious one, arose from the left hypo- condrium, and hung down as low as the middle of the calf of the leg, being two feet long, and three feet one inch in circumference at its base. All these tumors were of a fatty nature, soft, uneven, and quite unconnected with internal organs, or the muscles. (See QiMHerly Journ. of Foreign Medi- cine, vol. iv. p. 618.) As the substance of adipose tumors is never furnished with very large blood-vessels, the feat of htemorrhage, which frequently deters surgeons from operating, is quite unfounded. It is an undoubted fact, that there is no species of tumor that can be removed with so much celerity, with such apparent dexterity, or with such complete security against future consequences, as those of an adipose nature. However, now and then, wiien the tumor has been previously in an inflammatory state, the cap- sule becomes thickened, and intimately adherent to the surface of the swelling, so that the separa- tion of the disease is more difficult, and requires the knife to be more freely employed. The tumor also sometimes becomes, after inflammation, closely adherent to the contiguous parts. Adipose tumors often acquire an enormous magnitude. Indeed, there can be no doubt of the fact stated by Sir Astley Cooper, that they acquire a greater magni- tude than any other swelling ever reaches. Mr. Abernethy relates an example of one, removed by Mr. Cliue, which weighed between 14 lbs. and 15 lbs., and which I saw myself previously to the operation. Sir Astley Cooper also mentions the successful extirpation of several adipose tumors of immense size : one weighing 14 lbs. 10 oz., re- moved by himself; and another weighing 22 lbs., removed from a lady's thigh by Mr. Copeland. But a still more remarkable case is one in which Sir Astley Cooper removed a fatty swelling, which weighed, independently of the blood in it, 37 lbs. 10 oz., and was situated on the abdomen of a man, aged 57. (See Med. Chh: Trans, vol. xi. p. 440.) In the case above quoted from the Revue medi- eale, and recorded by M. Dagorn, of Morlaix, the largest of the swellings weighed, after its removal, 46 French pounds. (See Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Med. vol. iv. p. 618.) Although, when adipose swellings attain an enormous bulk, the im- mense size of the wound requisite for their re- moval must be dangerous, and is a strong argument in favour of having recourse to the operation at an earlier period; yet it is equally true, that large fatty swellings may be taken out with a greater prospect of success than any other kind of tumor of equal size. The next species of sarcoma, noticed in Aber- nethy's classification, is what he names pancreaiio, from the resemblance of its structure to that of the pancreas. [Adenoma.] This kind of disease is occasionally formed in the cellular substance; but, more frequently, in the female breast, on that side of the nipple which is next to the arm. Mr. Lawrence has seen many instances of tumors of this kind situated close to the parotid gland, and near the angle of the jaw; and one close to the submaxillary gland. Abernethy likewise men- tions one example situated on the mylyohoideus. (See Laiurence, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 18.) [The new growth here described is now more commonly known by the terms adenoid, adeno- cele, mammary glandular, or the chronic mam- mary tumor of Sir Astley Cooper. The growths which Mr. Lawrence here describes generally contain a large quantity of cartilage tissue, in con- sequence of which they are now usually classed with the cartilaginous growths.] When a pancreatic sarcoma is indolent, and in- creases slowly, the surrounding parts and the glands in the axilla are not affected. But some of these swellings deviate from their common charac- ter, and become of a very irritable nature, occa- sioning severe and lancinating pain, and producing an inflammatory state of the skin covering them, so that it becomes adherent to their surface. The absorbents leading to the axilla are also irritated, and the glands enlarged. Pancreatic sarcoma does not grow to a very large size; but, when its progress is unrestrained, the pain attendant on tho disease becomes lancinating, and so severe, as to make the patients feverish, and lose their health and strength. Mr. Abernethy remarks that, when the axillary glands become affected, one generally swells at first, and is extremely tender and pain- ful ; but afterwards the pain abates, and the part remains indurated. Another is then affected, and runs through the same course. To another species of sarcoma, Mr. Abernethy applies the epithet HiaHfH;ar_y, from the resemblance which this gentleman conceives its appearance bears to that of tho mammary gland. This kind of disease, Mr. Abernethy says, he has not often seen. In the example which he met with, the tumor was about as large as an orange, and situated on a