OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 392 restore vision in cases of central cataract, or central opacity of the cornea. (2) The first solution diluted with 15 parts of water (gr. i.-3 iv.) to produce complete dilatation and immobility of the pupil, so as to allow of examination of the interior of the eye in all direc- tions. The dilatation is produced in from 30 to 45 minutes, and the sight is commonly disturbed only for about 24 hours. (3) The fiist solution diluted with 80 parts of water fgr. i.-S xx.), 1 in 9, 600, for common use. One or two drops of this solution, retained for a few seconds between the lids, will give in from 30 to 60 minutes a sufficient dilatation to examine the eye in most cases. The dilatation will continue from 8 to 36 hours. By some practice it is possible, however, in the great ma- jority of cases, to see the details of the fundus oculi, and to form a diagnosis, through a moderately narrow pupil, without artificial dilatation. The attempt should generally be made, since there will always be opportunity to dilate the pupil after- wards, if the general inspection should display occasion for a more special one. In many cases, however, as in diseases of the choroid, gl.mcoma, and so forth, this will not be necessary, and the pupil will be wide enough. In many other cases the morbid phenomena consequent upon my- driasis, tiie dazzling, obscured vision, and dis- turbance of the accommodation, will be very troublesome, or even hurtful. The necessity for a mydriatic may frequently be obviated, and the contraction of the pupil dimin- ished, by making the examination with blue light, which has the additional advantage of being more pleasant to the observer. The merit of this suggestion is due, I believe, to Dr. F. Argilagas, of Cuba, who employed a mirror of blue glass, silvered at the back, and with only the silvering removed from the sight-hole. After tliis, a blue chimney- glass came into very general use ; and a screen has lately been recommended by Mr. Ernest Hart and others. This may be of cobalt blue glass; or if it were desired to transmit the rays only, it might be made of two plates of white glass, cemented together, and inclosing, as in Dr. Boehm's tinted lenses, a film of a solution of ammonio-sul- phate of copper or of Prussian blue. My own practice formerly was to use the blue chimney- glass, but latterly I have preferred a blue object- lens, made by cementing a plane glass of the A tint between two plano-convex lenses of the re- quired power. Witii such a lens it is necessary, of course, to place it in front of the eye, before the reflection from the mirror is allowed to fall upon the pupil. MM. Janssen and Follin have lately contrived an apparatus that can be fitted to any lamp, and that carries a screen of any desired tint. It is well adapted for the consulting room, but the blue lens has the advantage of ready portability. The same advantage attaches to the atropinised gelatine, recently introduced as a substitute for mydriatic solutions. Conduct of the Examination.—KW preparations being made, the observer takes the concave mirror in the hand that is on the side towards the lamp, places its upper edge against the superior margin of his orbit, and looks through the perforation at tlie eye to be examined ; he then causes the mirror to turn a little on its vertical axis, until the inverted image of the ilame is cast upon the eye under examination, the pupil of which will then return a more or less intense reddish or whitish glow. For a general inspection of the refracting media, it will be sufficient to look at the eye from different dis- tances, and to cause it to make slight movement-, upwards, downwards, and to either side. If no diseased conditions be apparent, the observer proceeds to examine the inverted image of the fundus. For this purpose he takes a bi-convcx lens, of 2" or 3" focal length, in the thumb and index finger of his free hand, rests his little finjii-r upon the forehead of the patient, and brings the lens in front of the examined tye, so that the light from the mirror, passing through this lens, will be concentrated upon the pupil. The actual inverted image of the fundus will now be fiiuiid between the lens and the observer, in the focus of the former ; and, to render it visible, the observer must usually move his head somewhat farther back. This movement requires considerable practice, since it is especially necessary, in executing it, to maintain the mirror in unchanged direction. Even for a sound eye, and far more for a diseased one, unexpected to-and-fro movements of the cone of light will soon become unbearable. The distance of the lens from the examined eye should be such as to make the focus exactly coincide with the pupil. For this purpose the pupil itself affords the best standard. When the pupillary margin limits the field of vision, the lens is too near the eye. As the distance between them is increased, the pupil enlarges, and finallj', in the focus of the lens, its margin disappears. The distance of the mirror from the lens must be the focal length of the latter, added to the distance for clear vision of the observer. The first object to be sought within the eye is the entrance of the optic nerve. Some- times, before its white surface becomes visible, darker streaks may be seen traversing a bright red ground. These will be the vessels that proceed from the entrance itself, and by following one of them, in the direction of its increasing thickness, towards the inner and inferior part of the ej-e, by movements of the observer and mirror in the oppo- site direction, the white surface of the optic disc will presently be perceived. At the beginning of the examination, as soon as the nerve surface is found, it is desirable—since the eye of the observer has then a distinct object of sight, and the eye of the patient is accommodated for its far point—to form, by the clearness of the central vessels, a judgment of the state of refi-ac- tion of the eye, by which the selection of a concave lens for the erect image may be assisted. Tiie fine arterial twigs, passing over the nerve surfnce, serve as test-objects for more accurate determina- tion. After inspection of the nerve surface, attention should next be directed to the vessels, to observe whether they present a normal condition at thetr place of entrance, to note their course over the white disc, and their conduct at and after passing to the red background. After tlie vessels should be observed the transparency of the retina, its relations to the choroid and to the nerve entrance, next the pigment-layer of the choroid, and then the observer should return to a more carclu and accurate study of the entrance to the nerve; htsl y follows the inspection of the refracting media, the vitreous body, the crystalline lens, tlie cornea, and tlieii liiat of the iri.^^.