SKIN, DISEASES OF. do7ies or grubs, small sebiparous tumors, or mol- luscum contagiosum, and larger Bebaceous accu- mulations and horns. T)ie affections in which the aperture of the duct is closed, are, miliary or pearly tubercles, and serous and sebaceous tumors, or, as they are commonly termed, enci/sted tumors. Inflammation of sebiparous glands and immediately adjacent tissues, of a chronic kind, gives rise to aaie. Acne is a hard, conical pimple, pierced at the summit by the excretory duct of a sebiparous gland, slow in its progress, of a deep red and often purplish colour, and terminating sometimes by subsidence and sometimes by suppuration. When the pimple is small and the excretory duct loaded with sebaceous substance of a black colour at the outlet, the variety is called acne punctata ; when hard and chronic and indisposed to resolution it constitutes acne indurata. Carcinoma of tJie sebiparous glands, is a disease of elderly persons; the gland is hard, and forms a small, flattened, and whitish semitransparent tubercle; the tubercle ulcerates slowly and exudes a small quantity of ichorous fluid which dries into a thin crust; under the crust the ulceration proceeds slowly, and, after many months, there is a small deep ulcer with fissured and sometimes everted edges. The nicer is apt to bleed from time to time, and gradu- ally, but very slowly, increases in size. Sometimes it puts on a more active character and becomes a true cancer, destroying the skin, the cartilages of the nose, and eventually life itself, from a continu- ance of irritation and pain. 21. Affections of the Sudoriparous System naturally give rise to disturbance of the function of perspiration, and this disturbance may be represented by augmentation, diminution, and alteration of secretion. Augmentation of secretion is termed idrosis or sudatoria, the sweating sick- ness. Diminution of secretion, giving rise to dryness of the skin, is termed anidrosis; while alteration of secretion presents itself as an alteration of odour, osmidrosis; and colour, chromidrosis; the teim haemidrosis being reserved for those perspirations which are changed in appearance by admixture with the red colouring principle of the blood. 22. Traumatic Affections.—Malis is a general term intended to signify the presence of parasitic animals on, in, and under the skin. The animals commonly known to draw their nourish- ment from the human skin, are, the acaius scabiei, acarus autumnalis.pediculus, pulex,cimex lectuarius, and filaria medinensis. Three species of pediculus are found to infest the skin, namely, P. capitis, P. corporis, and P. pubis, the latter not confining itself solely to the pubes, but being found also on every part of the body furnished with hairs, and notably in the armpits, eyebrows, and at the roots of the eyelashes. The species of pulex are two in number:—P. irritans, the common flea, and P. penetrans, the chiggre of the West Indies. The filaria medinensis is a native of India, but is sometimes imported into this country by those who have been for some time resident there. Ambustio, or burn and scald; and Gelatio, includmg frost-bite and chilblains, will be found treated of under their respective heads, in articles devoted specially to their consideration. Causks.—Diseases of the skin, as of other organs and tissues of the body, obey, as an essen- tial or fundamental cause of their existence, as in fact a proximate cause, a lowered vitality of the affected tissues, together with a greater or less depression of power of parts or of the whole of the nervous system. Certain conditions of the body and certain agencies conduce to this pathological state, to this state of depression of the vitality of the organ; and these are the predisposing causes, while other agencies act the part of exciting causes. The influence of the nervous system, as a proxi- mate cause, is shown, among other examples, in the sudden and complete arrest of the normal secretion of the skin in certain diseases ; in the excessive outbursts of perspiration in sudatoria; in the abundant and paroxysmal secretion of eczema madidans ; in the violent itching of lichen and prurigo ; in the stinging pruritus and muscular spasm of urticaria, and some forms of erythema; in the neuralgia of herpes zoster ; and in the nerve paresis of area. The predisposing causes that may be more especially noted, are :—age ; sex ; temperament; hereditary influence; moral influence; privations; occupation ; visceral derangements; and climate. Age becomes a predisposing cause of cutaneous disease by virtue of the special characters of different periods of life; the sensitiveness of in- fancy; the activity of the nutritive functions during the growth and development of the body ; the proneness to disturbance of balance between waste and supply consequent upon the completion of growth; and the rapid increase of waste in old age. Sex exhibits its influence at the periods of puberty and menstruation ; in disturbances of the menstrual function; and in its cessation; in marriage, childbirth, and lactation. The power of temperament is evinced whenever the prominent quality of the temperament assumes an abnormal type; when the healthful standard inclines to an excess of the lymphatic, of the sanguine, of the nervous, or the bilious. Eczema, impetigo and diseases having a tendency to the production of morbid secretions accompany the hyper-lym- phatic temperament; erythemata and pityriasis alba et rubra the sanguine; neuralgic, pruritic and melasmic eruptions, the nervous; and chloasma the bilious temperament. Hereditary predisposi- tion is manifested in alphos and scrofula; and, indirectly, by acquired hereditity, in ichthyosis, eczema and psoriasis. Moral affecliotis of a de- pressing kind, such as anxiety, grief and dread, predispose to cutaneous disease \>y e.\hausting the tone of the nervous S3'stera generally, suspending appetite and nutrition, and depressing the vital power both generally and locally. While ccrt;un moral affections, such as anger and terror may, at the same time, act both as predisposing and exciting causes. Privations, whether of food, of clothing, or of pure air, as in badly ventilated apartments, predispose actively to cachexia, to a lowered vitality of the individual, and of the cutaneous tissues. To one or other of these causes must be attributed the eruptive diseases of nurse- ries; of schools; of workhouses; of the poor ; of ill-fed or the improperly fed; the ill-clothed or the improperly clothed; of the inmates of ill-ventilated apartments and the inhabitants of close, obscure and unclean portions of towns, villages and cities. Occupation is also a powerful predisposing cause, inasmuch as it too frequently leads to a direct violation of the laws of health: it prevents exercise