88 INFLAMMATION. oxydised and eliminated by bowel, kidney, or skin. Such persons are, in common parlance, exceedingly liable to "inflammation." If they meet with a wound it is sure to fester; if with a bruise, it is liable to form an abscess. They very easily " take cold." If they undergo unusual bodily toil, or mental effort, they are sure to suffer from headache, languor and feverishness, until they are relieved by bowels or skin, or lateritious sediment in the urine. They are liable, from time to time, to spontaneous nei^ voHS or bilious headaches; often with great dis- charge of yellow bilious, or acid matters, or both. They cannot take opium; and if of dark com- plexion, steel and tonics very seldom agree. They are liable to headaches and sickness after taking wine or other alcoholic liquid; not, be it observed, that the alcohol is a poison primarily; it produces no evil symptoms till the next day, when the blood becomes loaded with noxious matter arising from imperfect assimilation, oxyda- tion or elimination. If of the female sex, they are liable to puerperal convulsions. After forty they become liable to gout in some form, open or concealed, and then become less prone to the headaches and vomitings. The urine is \isually —not scanty—but pale and copious, and of low specific gravity, before an attack of illness. In such patients " inflammation " is apt to cease sud- denly, after which the urine becomes full coloured, and of high specific gravity, and deposits a co- pious " lateritious" sediment. But it can be proved that it is not an accumulation of " urinary matter " which is the cause of disease in these cases, because there are no signs of gradually increasing illness, but the patient often feels himself unusually well up to the very moment when he is taken ill. It is, rather, the accumulation of matters which ought to become urinary, but do not, and, instead, break down into poisons, whose existence we assume from their effects. Such is a description, from the life, of the patients in whom the greater number of " inflam- mations" are met with that are seen in private practice in London: the inflamed eyes, throats, and bronchial mucous membranes; whitlows, the cases of obscure gouty and quasi-gouty pains spasms and inflammations; and the cases of injuries which do not heal kindly. But every other con- stitutional cause of inflammation is thrown into the shade by those degenerative diseases of the kidney, known as " Bright's," in which it may fairly be assumed, and often can be proved, that real urinary matter is formed and not excreted. In such patients injuries and surgical operations are liable to be followed by irretrievable collapse; or, if not, the actions of reparation are slow and imperfect, the exudations liable to degene- rate or decompose, and inflammation to follow. These too are the patients in whom erysipelas and inflammations of serous membranes are most fre- quent; so much so, that in the event of any in- flammatory attack of head, or of convulsions, or inflammations of larynx, or pericardium or peri- toneum, in tlie absence of other palpab e causes, the practitioner never fails to enquire for serum in the urine. Children, after scarlatina, are liable to successions of inflammatory attacks, especially pleurisy, and a kind of rheumatism, to be traced to the same morbid condition of kidneys. It is especially on patients who are predis- posed" by one of these morbid conditions of the blood depending on want of production or elimination of urinary matter, that cold is likely to produce its worst effects. Cold, no doubt, does harm, in so far as it checks perspiration. I know well-marked cases of persons who, in a state of pi-rspiration after exercise, or hot baths, have put on damp linen, or exposed themselves to currents of cold, air and have been seized with ophthal- mia, or acute serous diarrhoea. But, then, suppression of perspiration is not all; continuous chilling is rather equivalent to a suppression of all the processes of life. Applied to a small part of the body cold will, under usual conditions, cause chilblain, frostbite, &c. But under other con- ditions, when applied slowly, by a current of cold air, or when applied in such a way as to lower the temperature of the whole blood, it seems to act on the delicate processes going on in the blood, just as it would on a fermenting loaf or vat of wine, or egg in process of hatching. All chemical processes can only take place within certain limits of temperature. As is the lumpish bread, or the sour wine, or the addled egg, whose chemistry has been interfired with by cold, so is the entire mass of blood spoiled. The lungs are usually the earliest sufferers; they receive the venous blood, whose temperature has been lowered and its chemical processes deranged; they are irritated, and bronchitis follows. All the gelatinous tissues are apt to suffer, as, for ex- ampTe, in rheuraatism.Violent headaches, sometimes serous apoplexy, result. A very common, and some- times very tragical effect of a thorough chill, is neuralgia. It is a kind of malady in which a large quantity of red blood has perished. This is shown by the patient's yellowish pale colour, hol- low features and rapid emaciation. Enormous quantities of food are taken, and enormous quan- tities of urea secreted. But the blood globules do not increase and multiply, and the patient's colour remains yellowish wan. Meanwhile there are symptoms of feverishness, probably intermittent, like ague; and paroxysms of acute pain in the course of some nerve-often the frontal, often the dental, but possibly any other. These fits of pain may last for months. Cold is the most fre- quent cause of tetanus.' If the kidneys be dis- eased or if the formation and elimination of urinan-matter be imperfect, there is no inflam- mation known to nosologists which cold may not 6XcitG« We must not pass on without devoting a few words formally to malaria, or marsh poison, as a cause of inflammation, because, although far more prevalent in England than is sometimes thought, it is by far the most frequent cause and complication of inflammations in hot countries, and requires a peculiar and decisive mode of treatment. So closely allied are many of the effects of malaria to those of cold, that some writers have denied that there is a marsh poison other than the chill of dews, fogs, and the like. For example, Minzi (iopra laGcnesi delle Fehhri intermittmti, Roma, 1«44) denies the existence of marsh poison. This poison, he says, has never been demonstrated ; not one ot the Rises produced by the rotting of vegetable and animal matter under a hot sun, neither the com- pounds of hydrogen with ciirbon, sulphur, phos- phorus, nor any putrid vapour, nor yet any plant that has been demonstrated, is proved to be a cause