!)!)a VAGINA, IMPERl'^ORATR, whilst the other uterus performed its function ■iiorinally. Duces (Bull, de la Soc. anal. 1854) gives a case in which retention in one uterus led to rapture of the horn and fatal peritonitis. Leroy {Journ. dcs Cunnaiss. mid. 1835) published a case in which there was occlusion of the right uterine neck, retention of menstrual flux, and fv)rniation of a tumor reaching to the umbilicus and simulating pregnancy. Rokitansky relates aw important case {Zcilsch. d. GescUsch. d. Aerzle 18G0). He dissected a woman who died of symptoms of pelvic inflammation. The uterus had a complete septum. The right half only communicated with the vagina, which was single. The left half was shut off from the vagina and expanded into a pouch containing a dirty ichorous matter. This pouch formed a fluctuating projec- tion into the roof of the vagina. The septum between the two uteri was perforated by ulcera- tion. Rokitansky concluded that there had been imprisonment of menstrual fluid in the blind half of the uterus, causing, first, distension of the cervix, then inflammation and perforation of the septum, with consensual inflammation of the col- lateral (left) ovary, leading to abscess and peri- toneal effusion. Dr. Beronius relates a similar ciise (Mo«. /. Gebvn-lsk. 1862). The distended half of the uterus was punctured ; but death ensued from acute peritonitis in thirty-six hours. Occlusions impeding parturition, not concerning tbe surgeon proper, may be touched upon lightly. The signs of protracted and obstructed labour lead to examination, when, if the vagina is free, the nature of the occlusion of the uterus is ascer- tained. The simple agglutination of the os of Najgele will sometimes yield to the pressure of the finger. But if there is any cicatricial or other morbid tissue impeding the opening of the womb, incisions may be necessary. These are best made by a straight blunt-ended hernia knife carried up to the edge of the contracted ring, and made to execute several small nicks at different points of the circumference. By this means the parts will often gradually dilate. This nicking may be alternated with artificial dilatation by help of the writer's caputchouc bags. If the atresia is very great, and artificial dilatation cannot be carried far enough with safety to permit the child to pass, embryotomy and extraction of the child may be Jieccssary. It has been remarked that repeatedly nicking these cicatrices is followed by their gradual disappearance. In the senile form of occlusion, pain of an acute kind ensues whenever there is any secretion form- ing in the cavity of the uterus. In women in whom the menstrual function has ceased, there sometimes exists a form of catarrhal inflammation of the lining membrane of the uterus, giving rise to a mucous or niuco-purulent secretion, which, being retained, produces symptoms resembling those from retained menstrual blood. If the fluid is watery, this is called liydromefra. The uterus seldom attains a size comparable to that observed in cases of retained menses. On exa- mining by the finger, the uterus is felt enlarged, often retroflexed ; the os externum is sometimes dillicult to make out, from the vaginal portion of the uterus being atrophied, and so leaving the os flash with the roof of the vagina. Generally, liowever, the point of the sound will ])enetratc a littlu way ; iiuil by persevering with gentle pres- sure, sometimes a passage is gradually made into the uterus. The consequences of retention, if not relieved by operation, are :—The distension of the uterui Iwids to perimetritis, with adhesions to the surrounding pitrts, especially of the Fallopian tubes, to the ovaries and broad ligaments. The thinning of the uterus may proceed to bursting. The dis- tended Fallopian tubes may burst, or, without bursting, an overflo w of blood may escape into the peritoneum, causing peritonitis. (Brodie, Kiwisch.) Bedard relates a case in which the uterus burst, discharging into the bladder. Scanzoni and Dr. Arthur Farre relate cases in which the distended hymen burst. In Dr. Farre's case death resulted. In other cases the obtruding membrane has given wa3' under a process of ulceration, and a cure has resulted (see cases in Puech). The constitution suffers from hectic, the result of pain and the absorption of the altered blood from the uterus. In some cases—Lizd relates one {Union medicah, 1863> — the impossibility of evacuating the collecting menstrual blood induces amenorrhcEa ; the ovaries and uterus give up theit functions. Lizd believed that in his case atrophy of the uterus was induced. Dr. Murray of New- castle relates a case {Brit. Med, Journ. 1868) of a single lady, aet. twenty-seven, whose vagina was closed by small-pox in infancy. Menstruation had been suspended for fourteen years. The vagina being opened up, no collection was fciund in the uterus, but exactly a month afterwards menstruation appeared, and recurred with tolerable regularity afterwards. In this case it was clear that the ovaries were not atrophied; but that the uterus ceased to pour out menstrual blood. This is in accordance with what sometimes occurs m apparent amenorrhoea without uterine obstruction. Ovulation may go on without exciting menstrual flow. This returns when a healthy state of the blood is restored. Simon relates (Mo/j./ Gehurtsk. 1851) a case of complete closure of the vagina, with a distended uterus. A vain attempt was made to establish a vagina. The patient maintained good health without the uterus being opened. The character of the retained blood is remark- able. It is dark-coloured, deficient in fibrine, of treacly consistence, rarely containing coagula ; it contains mucus, and often cholesterine scales. It is glutinous, inodorous. The quantity varies with the duration of retention. Occasionally the toler- ance and accommodation are surprising ; the uterus is expanded to the size of the end of pregnancy. Ten pounds of blood have been collected. I have collected forty ounces ; and this, perhaps, is an average amount. Puech deduces from comparison of quantity and time of retention, that, as a rule, the quantity is less than the number of ^^ff^'fl periods would have produced normally, betneoy (Lanccl, 1845) analysed forty ounces which ga>t- —water, 875-4 ; albumen, 69-4 ; globulme, 4.) 1. hrematosine, •2'9; salts, 8-0; fat.S'S; extract>ve,6 7. Sometimes the fluid undergoes decomposition ; ana then gas mixed with the blood constitutes ph3su hajmatoiuetra. , , . , „ •_),» The svmptoms of atresia are those ^^h^ch igl t be expected from obstructed function. P";° ' untur coitus, conceptio, et purgatio. un ' advent of puberty, nothing may cause ^'-n- °' abnormality. But with the onset ol >"'^"='' ""| distress begins, due to retention of the menstiual