707 TUMOR. excision. This should be done ns freely as prac- ticable, aiul always with that part of the fibrous (ii:;:ui from which the tumor especially sprinfi;3. ^\'hen, as becomes sometimes necessary, a portion n; ;i member is sacrificed by amputation, a joint intervening between tlie locality of the growth and the section of the bone above, the operation may be attended with a good result. The writer has, at this moment, a patient under his observa- tion from wliom he removed the leg and a recur- rent fibro-plastic tumor, growing close to the knee joint, twelve and a half years since. Ampu- tation was performed through the femur, and there has not been any reappearance of the disease. Myeloid groiiths are more especially associated with the osseous system. They affect, for the most part, the articular ends of the long bones, more especially in early tage, although instances are recorded of their existence in connection with the fhtt bones, and even the jaws, in the middle period of life. The reader should consult the monographs by Mr. Henry Gray {Med. Chir. Trans. 1»56. p. 1-22), and Dr. Wilks {Guy's Hos- pital Reps. 18,57, p. 143), in which he will find much valuable information. The distinguishing elementary structures composing these growths resemble those fotmd in the marrow and other ele- ments of bone in the foetus. Now, these growths, although at first local and entirely removed, as by amputation of a member, may subsequently appear in some distant organ of the body, in another bone for example, without any affection of the stump, or infection of the lymphatic system. Re.cttrreid fibroid growths are chiefly charac- terised by a largs proportion of the fibre element. Their section is, therefore, very firm, with diffi- culty torn, not very juicy. The distinction is rather in relation to their elementary structure than of clinical signification. Jtlyaoma, a modern term, is applied to those growths which contain, together with a very deli- cate fibre element, a large proportion of a mucoid fluid, which draws out in threads. Ttieir clinical history closely resembles the fibro-plastic] Dr. Warren, of the United States, in a work re- plete with valtiable information, prefers the classi- fication of tumors founded upon the different textures in which they form and grow. I appre- hend, however, that this classification will not be found to answer ; indeed. Dr. Warren acknow- ledfes certain objections to it; namely, that it is often difficult to ascertain in which texture any given tumor originates, and that the proposed ar- rangement refers to the same general head, with- o\it distinction, malignant tumors, and those free from this character. A third objection, noticed by A critical writer, and perhaps a still more serious one, is the fact, that many tumors consist of morbid products, which alfecl several tissues indis- criminately, and sometimes simultaneously in the same subject; such, for instance, as the medullary sarcoma, or fungus li£ematodes, which generally affects, lint only several difTuront tissues, but several different organs at the same time. But, our knowledge of tumors is still so imperfect, that probably it will be long before a classification of them can be established, oven with few defects or inconsistencies. (Sec liilinh. Med.Jotcni. Oct. Iliu7, p. 491.) [Classificalion of liimors. — The following classification of tumors, taking that word in its widest sense, is based upon their elementary com- position, and has been arranged especially with regard to facilitating their diagnosis at the bed- side. The primary divisions are in accordance with their palpable physical characters and the ele- mentary structures of the bod^'. I. Tumors produced by collections of fluid. II. Tumors composed of solids. III. Tumors consisting of fluid and solids in variable proportions. I. Those consisting of accumulations of fluid are generally composed of one of the ordinary fluids of the body—as, for example, of the blood- hcBinatoma: a collection of serum in one of the serous sacs, as hydrocele tunicas vaginalis; or of serum in a closed sac or cyst, in the connective tissue of the body, as sero cysts, hygroma: of mucus, in association with the raucous glands and ducts, myxoma: of a retained secretion, as the milk, galactoma : of the products of inflammation, as ^-as, pyoma: of collections of fluid associated with defective development or deformity of bony cavities and canals, as the accumulations of cere- bro-spinal fluid in the cephalic and trachidian meningoceles: of entozoa cysts, as ecchinococcus hominis, eniozooma. II. Tumors composed of solid growths. A. New growths, neoplasms, histoid tumors, the elementary composition of which resembles more or less closely one or other of the organs or structures of the body in their fully developed state. I. Fibrous tissue growths. Fibroma. 2. Bony growths. Osteoma. 3. Cartilaginous growths, Chondroma. 4. Fat growths. Lipoma. 5. Vas- cular growths, Angioma. 6. Nervous growths, Neuroma. 7. Glandular growths, Adenoma. 8. Papillary growths. Papilloma. 9. Epidermic growths, corns, horns, Epidermoma. B. Growths composed of elements in a more or less rudimentary or embrj'onal stage. ]. Fibro-plastic growths, Plasmoma. 2. Cell growths, as myeloid, Epithelioma, Carcinoma, tubercle. III. Tumors composed of both fluid and solid substances. This composition of a tumor may be its charac- teristic from the first, as in those growths termed cystosarcoma; but it very often depends upon changes taking place during its progressive in- crease. For example, in the blood tumors, which, at first fluid, become more and more solid; and the converse, as in some forms of cell growths, when serum exudes from the growth, and a large circumscribed accumulation of fluid, constitutes the most notable feature of the tumor. Also, in- stances of growths connected with special organs, generally glandular, as in new growths aflccting the testis, ovary, mammary gland, and cutaneous follicular timiors. Even hernial tumors belong to ihis category, as well as liamorrhnidal growths. In a clinical point of view, tlio following classi- fication of tumors is made by Billroth. {Die a'l- gem. chir. Pathol. Thcrupit:, '1060, p. G?>X) 1. Tumors of very slow growth, which may exist throughout the whole life without becoming infectious; the}'' are cm'able by excision, and may make their appearance singly or in indefinite num- bers. However, this last condition is not frequent. Wc designate them cspecinlly as innocent or