THORAX, INJ JRIES OF THE. 727 pass within the chest, or are impacted in the vis- cera. It is occasionally impossible to get at them without causing more risk than can attend their being abandoned, and small metallic bodies such as balls may become encysted, and so give rise to no further harm ; but yet there is always great risk that destructive inflammation, fistulous open- ings, &c., may result: hence the rule is imperative to extract all foreign bodies at once so long as a greater harm may not be done by such interference than can attend their being left alone. It is from such bodies as by their nature act chemically as well as mechanically that the most harm arises, and animal substances from their decomposition are also peculiarly injurious. Balls have been removed even from the surface of the diaphragm by Larrey. Great care should be taken to examine recent wounds, if there is any possibility from the nature of the wounding agent that a portion of it may have been left within. Some very remarkable cases are on record of even considerable portions of a weapon being thus overlooked. The secondaiy complications of penetrating wounds of the chest are inflammation of the pleura, lung, and heart, and the efliusions which may attend these conditions. Pleuro-pneumonia followed by empycsma is a most dangerous and frequent result when the original injury has been severe. The management of these complications does not fall to be considered here. While it is certainly the case, as was clearly evidenced to the writer in the Crimea, that penetrating wounds of the lung often require free depletion, yet it is to be remembered, that if this has been had re- course to, or if free hfemorrhage has attended the original wound, that any depletive or depressing remedies which may be called for during the sub- sequent inflammatory stage must be guided and limited by that circumstance. From all that has been said, then, it would ap- pear that if there be no contra-indication from eifusion, foreign bodies (which cannot at first be got at), &c., penetrating wounds of the chest should be closed carefully and accurately, and in- flammation in the pleura or lung watched for and combatted energetically at the outset. To close the wound adhesive plaster will probably suffice; or a more accurate closure may be obtained by slightly separating the soft parts on either side of the wound, and- sliding the lips together, retaining them by suture. In the American war this was frequently accomplished even with gunshot aper- tures, the edges of the wound being first removed. The Prognosis in penetrating wounds of the chest will, of course, mainly turn on the viscera implicated. When the lungs are wounded the risk is very great, not only from the htemorr- hage, the shock, and collapse of the lung, which may immediately arise, but also from the inflam- mation which follows, and the effusions that may result therefrom. The closer the wound is to the position of the great vessels at the root of the lung, the greater the danger. There is more risk of hfemorrhage from incised wounds than any other, and punctured wounds admit of the most favourable prognosis. Lacerated and contused wounds arc highly dangerous, but they are not so apt to be followed by primary bleeding as in- cised wounds, though the lodgment of foreign bodies is a source of much danger in these acci- dents. In the article " Gun-shot wounds," these injuries will be fully considered. Wounds pene- trating both lungs are generally quickly fatal, though to this not a few exceptions have been recorded. Hajmorrhage and collapse of the lung are the great sources of danger in. such cases. Accumulations of serum, blood, pus, &c., in the chest are recognised b}-^ certain rational and physi- cal symptoms to which they give rise, together with other effects which are due to the nature of the secretion. In all cases in which fluid is col- lected in quantity, there will be (1) Dyspnoea proportioned to the rapidity of the accumulation and the amount of the lung which is compressed. The breathing is short, laborious, and rapid, (2) The respiratory murmur can only be de- tected at that portion of the chest where the lung exists. In the unaffected lung it will be puerile, and bronchophony will be frequently observed. If the amount of fluid is small, perhaps aegophony will be also present. If any part of the lung ia prevented from collapsing by adhesions, then the respiratory murmur will be found there. If, how- ever, the pleural cavity is filled with fluid, the re- spiratory murmur and voice sounds will be totally suppressed, and possibly the heart dislocated. (3) Percussion gives a dull note up to the level of the fluid, and as this level-varies in different positions of the body, the dulness changes with it. (4) There is usually much restless agitation and anxiety. (5) There is a sense of weight and oppression in the chest, and a dragging on the diaphragm. (6) The decubitus is dorsal or on the affected side, or the patient remains in the semi-erect posture. (7) The thorax may be enlarged and rounded on the afi^ected side, the ribs being more horizontal than usual, and. the intercostal spaces^ effaced or bulged. The side, too, of the chest is fixed. This bulging of the intercostal spaces is more common iu purulent than any other effusion, and it has been so- commonly observed that some have even denied its occurrence in any other kind of eflfusion. (8) Blood or pus may escape from the wound on coughing. (9) Splashing ("-hippocratic fluctuation ") may- be observed on sudden movement (10) The hypochondrium of the affected side will be more prominent than normal, (11) The abdominal organs-may be displaced and pushed downwards. Any fluid may cause the above effects, but such signs are most evident in purulent effusions. To enable us to determine the nature of the fluid, we have the history of the case-to guide us. Hcemorrhage takes place generallj', though not invariably, shortly after the receipt of the wound, and increases quickl}', while at the same time we have present all the u.iual signs of internal bleeding —bloodless lips and face, paleness of the general surface, rapid dinn'nution of the strength, tendency to fainting and collapse, cold extremities, small weak pulse, dilated pupils, &c. The anxiety and dread, too, is usually great, and we may have within a few days the infiltration of the loins with blood. Pus, again, forms at a Liter date after haimorr- hnge, or as a result of inflammation. The forma- tion of pus will be attended with rigors, hectic, and prostration. There will also be cough and