£96 SKIN, DISEASES OF. the dose, or procuring a more certain uniformity of result. It was first suggested to us by the frequent association of ansemia with eczema inlantile, and at the same time by a desire to render the medicine as palatable as possible to children, for whom in the first instance it was prescribed; it is as fol- lows :— ]^ Vini ferri 3jss. Liquoris arsenicalis 3ss. ad 5ii8. Syrupi simplicis Siiias. ad 3iss. AqufE anethi vel destillatae ^ij. Ft. Mist.: — One drachm three times a day, in the middle or towards the end of the meal. Furthermore, we make a rule of concluding our directions with the injunction that the medicine is to be immediately discontinued if it chance to disagree. We sometimes meet with curious examples of intolerance of arsenic, but not more frequently than of other medicines and even of articles of diet, so that these instances may be referred to idiosyncracy. But when the remedy is adminis- tered with moderate caution, it may be taken to be the safest as well as the best of the constituents of our Pharmacopoeia. It has been reputed danger- ous from a " cumulative " property, but we cannot understand such an objection if it be employed ■with caution. Taken in solution, and in associa- tion with food, it clearly cannot accumulate in mass; and, any sudden outbreak of serious symp- toms supposed to arise from accumulative action, may be prevented by watching the patient, and instantly suspending the remedy if any premoni- tory signs of constitutional disturbance become manifest. We have scarcely once seen, in the course of twenty-five years' practice, any serious 8ym|)toms occasioned by arsenic, and this we attribute to the mode of exhibition which we employ, and the moderation of dose. We are unable to say what " cumulative " evils might result from larger doses, and especially from large doses continued for a length of time. Having passed in review the remedies, and the nature of the remedies that we have at our dis- posal, let us inquire what is the slass of subjects upon whom we may have to employ these reme- dies, and how the remedies should be modified to meet the different phases of life, and the different constitutions that we may have to treat. Our patients may be infants at the breast, governed as to their health by the milk as well as by the physical or the moral condition of the mother; or they may be brought up by hand; or they may be children struggling through the period of the first dentition, its sufferings and irritations, well-fed or sparingly fed. Thirdly, they may be youths con- tending with the second dentition, with education, with school training and with active growth, well fed or insufficiently fed. Fourthly, they may have entered upon the first tunctions of puberty, hungry, eager, standing in need of all the nourish- ment they can get to perfect the inward frame, and too much occupied with the more essential organisation to have nutrition to spare for the ornamentiil part, the skin and its dependencies; or they may be young females, victims of defective and deranged menstruation. Fifthly, we may have to deal with weakly manhood or womanhood, tlieir toils, their cares, their labours, their nidul gences, their pinchings, or their excesses, and the hundred disorders which accompany this eventful period of life, the period of parental function and maturity. Sixthly, we meet with a most important and numerous group, in which tlie balance of supply exceeds that of waste, and like a neglected garden runs on to confusion and destruction; this is the chanffe of life ; the change from active function to torpid function; a period when the elements of disease are undergoing a daily production and de- velopment, and when the aid of the physician becomes necessary to guide the wayfarer of life to that easy decline which results in a restored balance or in the increase of waste, and an increas- ing necessity for nutrition and supply. Then we have to consider the treatment appli- cable to the temperaments of the body, be they natural or acquired; the secreting and the non- secreting diseases of Devergie; the former the ap- pendage of the lymphatic temperament, the latter principally accompanying the nervous temperament, while the exanthemata belong to the sanguine and the dyschromata to the bilious temperament. Next, there are the diseases of diathesis, and specially of the scrofulous and the leprous diathe- sis; and, lastl}', the diseases originating in blood- poison, and emphatically in the poison of syphilis. Children and infants are particularly liable to secreting or eczeniatous eruptions, the latter pre- senting the simple erythematous, the serous, or the pustulous forms; to infants belong the red gum or tooth rash, strophulus, and intertrigo, and to chil- dren a little further advanced impetigo and lichen urticatus. The remedies the most appropriate for infants and children, are grey powder with rhubarb, calomel, the nitrorauriatic or sulphuric or phos- phoric acid, with tincture of orange-peel and syrup, the syrup of the biphosphate of iron, the tincture of the sesquichloride of iron with syrup, and the ferro-arsenical mixture. In a scro- fulous diathesis we may add to these means : cod- liver oil and the syrup of the iodide of iron; and when the bones are weak, the powder of the phosphate of lime exhibited with the food. In the second period of life, namel}', boyhood and girlhood, the exanthemata are apt to be pre- valent; and at this period also we meet with eczema in all its forms, not unfrequently chronic, pityriasis, ichthyosis, and affections of the scalp, including ringworm. Our first attention must be given at this age to regimen, to securing a. sound animal diet, fresh air and abundant exercise. Our remedies will be found in the class of tonics : cod- liver oil when there exist waste and emaciation, nitromuriatic and sulphuric acid, quinine, iron and arsenic. The diseases of the third period take their origin chiefly in deficient nutrition, the amount ofnourisli- inentYailing to keep pace with the exhaustive ope- rations of growth and development. This is the period when schools assume their tyranny, when the laws of hygiene are forced to give place to Latin, Greek and mathematics, to the piano and the use of the globes; when learning shows its ienorance and bigotry by torturing the stomach and starving the body to give additional stimulus to the nervous system and brain; when the thews and sinews of phvsical strencth are made to rela.'C and bend, and the expanding chest to narrow under the impulse of intellectual irntation and fever. At this age we still hud eczema, and chiefly in the joints; we have herpes from ex-