765 - TRA atod after a violent exertion. The pulse becomes feeble and irregular,—stupor, with momentary paroxysms of excitement, set in, and death tal<e3 place in from twenty-four hours to fourteen days from the outset of the attack (rarely earlier or later) in about half the patients seized. The immediate cause of death is either suffocation or exhaustion. Convulsions frequently precede dissolution ; and, according to Dr. Richardson, fibrinous clots form- ing in the lieart are the immediate cause of the fatal event. The symptoms above shortly described are quite distinctive of this terrible malady. The age of the child, the mode of invasion, and the progress of the complaint, together with the peculiar respira- tion and cough, are sufficient to distinguish croup from other ailments. Laryngismus stridulus, or false croup, is diflferentiated bj' the greater sud- denness of the attack as a rule ; the absence of fever, the distinct and clear remissions, the un- affected voice which, though perhaps hoarse, is not suppressed, and the different character of the ac- companying cough which, though loud and ring- ing, has not the brassy clanging sound it has in true croup. Further, there is no false membrane formed or expectorated. For the signs by which croup is distinguished from foreign bodies in the air passages, see p. 761. True laryngitis is an affection of adults, and is marked by fixed pain increased by pressure on the larynx. Its progress is wholly different, and there is no false membrane formed. ffidema of the glottis can be recognised by in- spection or exploration, and there is the absence of the characteristic cough and expectoration. Post-pharyngeal abscess interferes with the deglutition, but not at all, or only in a very slight degree with the respiration and voice. The symp toms persist, and the swelling it occasions in the back of the pharjmx can be seen or felt. Growths in the larynx are very rare in children. Their progress is chronic, and the expiration is affected as well as the inspiration. The laryngo- scope too will aid their recognition. The Prognosis in croup is always most unfiivour- able if the symptoms are severe. The treatment should be early and antiphlogistic. k bath of the temperature of 98°, an emetic, fol- lowed by a free action on the bowels by calomel and castor oil, a few leeches to the mastoid pro- cesses or the upper part of the sternum (where effective pressure can be used to arrest bleeding), followed by the application of hot sponges or poultices to the windpipe. Antimony if adminis- tered should only be used in the early stages of the affection, and its depressing influence sedu- lously avoided afterwards. Quietness should be enjoined in the apartment, and the air rendered warm (65°) and moist by the introduction of steam. This can be very effectually accomplished by surrounding the child's cot with curtains, and directing a jet of steam into the sort of tent thus made. The food should be carefully regulated and rendered as nourishing and easy of digestion as possible. The body should be comfortably but not oppressively clothed. The use of counter-irritation, either by blisters or iodine, and the subsequent employment of mer- cury, either to the raw surface or given internallj-, 13 higlily objectionable and in no way conducive to good. Lowering remedies, unless to subdue the vio- lence of the attack at its outset, must as a rule be avoided in the treatment of croup. The depres- sion they occasion if severely pushed is most detrimental in the later stages of the disease, and serves greatly to render operative measures in- effectual. If the disease attack, as is not uncom- mon, a child now or lately the victim of any other depressing ailment, such as an exanthem, bron- chitis, &c., or a child that is constitutionally weak, then no lowering remedies whatever can ba thought of at any stage of the complaint. The administration of an emetic or tickling the fauces, so as to induce vomiting, will aid in the expulsion of the false membrane, if loose, and so give great relief; and the inhalation of oxygen has been thought useful when asphyxia threatened. Iodide of potash alone, or with the chlorate, or combined with senega, assafoelida, and ammonia, or with the tincture of tlie muriate of iron, have been the internal remedies which have received most favour. It is mainly, however, as regards the performance of tracheotomy that croup is here treated of. It is to the example and pre- cepts of Trousseau that we owe most in this con- nection, and since he showed how desperate may be the cases saved by it, British surgeons have become less timorous about its performance. The chief point still, however, to be advocated, is the early recourse to operation before the powers of life have been exhausted, and not the looking upon it as a last resource, when to succeed would be a miracle. Much attention has been paid of late years to this question, mainly through the labours of Trousseau, Bretonneau, and Guersant, and many lives saved which there is every reason to suppose would have been lost if tracheotomy had not been undertaken. It may be remarked in passing that, though the French authors above mentioned have of late years taken the lead in this question, yet that Francis Home was the first (1765) to recommend tracheotomy in croup, and that the first successful operator was Andre of London, in 17fi2. It is mainly the definition of the cases which demand the opening of the windpipe, and the de- termination of the stage in which it is best per- formed, that calls for remark. As to the first point, it may be said, that it is in the membranous form of croup alone that the operation is called for; and as to the stage, it is that in which the in- flammation and exudation, having become decid- edly established, have not as yet penetrated so deeply as to implicate the bronchial tubes, or dis- organise the lungs. It is when death threatens by apnoea, caused by the obstruction of the upper part of the windpipe by morbid effusion, but be- fore the general system has so felt the effects as to become greatly exhausted, that tracheotomy holds out the best hopes, as by its performance the im- mediate source of danger is at once removed, and those ulterior changes in the blood and general S3'stem, which are themselves fraught with si much hazard, obviated. Guersant thinks that in- flammation of the larger bronchi does not contra- indicate the operation. If death threaten by syn- cope, opening the windpipe below the seat o' disease can be of little or no avail. When niodi' cine has failed to arrest the disease, and suffocation is imminent, common sense, no less than actual^ experience, would point to tracheotomy as the rej^