^■•^U RECTUM, £ operation is as safe as any operation can be expected to be, and tlmt the chance of danger is at any rate so trifling that it need not be calculated upoii (see Works of Sir B. Drodie by C. Hawkins, vol. iii.). Mr. Syme is of a similar opinion; he says, "I feel warranted after very extensive empln3fment of the ligature to state that it may be used without the slightest risk of any serious inconvenience. In- deed, in the whole course of my practice, I never met with a case which terminated fatally, or threat- ened to do so, when the ligature simply was em- ployed. (On Dis. of the Rectum, 3rd ed. p. 8'2.) The writer of this article has operated on more than 500 cases with the ligature, according to Mr. Sal- mon's method as above described, and has seen no serious consequences whatever except in two cases at St. Mark's Hospital in 1858, in which death took place from tetanus, but this was at a time when tetanus was unusually prevalent in London. Two other deaths of tetanus occurred at St. Mark's Hospital at about the same time, though none had been noticed before, and none have occurred since that period. There can be no doubt that these cases were the result of some special epidemic influ- ence, and that this cannot be taken to indicate any special liability to tetanus after this operation, though of course it may occasionally follow this, as it will also occasionally follow every conceivable surgical proceeding. Out of more than 1000 pa- tients operated on in St. Mark's Hospital in the last ten j'ears, for this disease, there has been no other fatal case, and not a single example of pyaemia has occurred. Operation with the Clamp and Cautery.— Another method which is a combination of ex- cision with the cautery has been lately recom- mended. It was first suggested, we believe, by the late Mr. Cusack, of Dublin, and hag been adopted in London by Mr. Henry Lee, and espe- cially by Mr. II. Smith, by whose writings it has been brought prominently into notice. The haemorrhoids being protruded they are seized with a clamp, the blades of which being screwed together, the bases of the tumors are firmly com- pressed. They are then cut off with the knife or scissors, and to prevent bleeding, the cut surface is cauterised freely with strung nitric acid or with the actual cautery, the latter having been found more effectual. The clamp is then gradually loosened, and if any haamorrhage is noticed, the cautery is again applied to the bleeding point. The clamp is then removed, and the cut surface, covered by the layer of slough produced by the cautery, is allowed to recede into its place within the rectum. Any external piles which may be present are then cut away with the knife or scissors. A representation of the screw clamp will be found in Mr. Smith's work {On the Surgery of the Rectum, p. 91). A lighter, and, in the writer's opinion, more convenient instrument has been con- trived by Mr. Gowlland, and is in use at St. Mark's Hospital for diseases of the rectum. This operation has been highly extolled by Mr. Smith, as being less painful than the ligature, as being followed by a much more rapid recovery, and as being entirely free from all its dangers, amongst which he especially alludes to pyaemia and tetanus. These statements have not been verified by other surgeons who have practised the operation. At St. Mark's Hospital, where it has had an ample trial buili writer and his colleagnea, it has [SEASES OF. not been found that the pain is diminished, or that the convalescence is accelerated. With respect to the dangers alluded to, it has been already shown how rarely they follow the operation with the liga- ture, and there is not the slightest evidence or proof that they are not just as likely to occur after the operation with the clamp and cautery. Mr. Smith has equally overstated the advantages of the one, and the disadvantages of the other method. In the writer's opinion the clamp is best adapted to cases where the tumors are small, or where there is only one, but it is not so safe as regards bleeding, or so satisfactory in other respects, when the disease is extensive, as tiie operation with the ligature. (See H. Smith, on the Surgery of the Rectum, London, 1865. Also Ohs. on Dis. of the Rectum, hy J. R. Lane, Lancet, Sept. 2, 18G5.) Cauterisation with Nitric Acid.—This mode of treatment was introduced by Dr. Houston, of Dublin (see Dublin Journal of Medical Science, 1843), and has been recommended in London by Mr. Henry Lee and Mr. H. Smith. The cases to which it is best adapted are those in wliich there is a vascular condition of the mucous membrane, with a tendency to frequent hcemorrhage, but with- out the development of any distinct tumors which can be protruded. Such a condition is not un- frequent in the earlier stages of the complaint, when, as has been already explained, bleeding is more apt to occur than at a later period. In such cases, a free application of the strong nitric acid, and it should be the strongest procurable, will often be of the greatest service, by destroying the hyperasmic condition of the mucous membrane, and further, bj- preventing the development of large hasmorrhoidal swellings. When, however, there are tumors of any mag- nitudf, the treatment by nitric acid is very un- satisfactory. Repeated applications of the caustic are then necessary to reduce them to the level of the surrounding surface, and the treatment occupies a much longer period, is less effectual, and more severe than the operation with the ligature. The most convenient mode of applying nitric acid to the rectum, in cases where the diseased membrane cannot be easily protruded, to which, as has been explained, it is most appropriate, is to introduce a three-bladed expanding speculum, and to paint the mucous membrane in the interval between the blades with a glass brush dipped in the acid. By turning the speculum round, the entire circumference of the bowel can in this way be easily reached. Care must be taken that the acid does not flow over the integument external to the anus, or the pain will be greatly increased. In this, as in the other methods, any redundant skin should be treated by excision. In order to protect the ex- ternal parts from the action of the caustic, thej' may be covered with ointment, or they may be washed with an alkaline solution after the acid has been applied. AVith proper management, however, these precautions are unnecessary.] Rectum, Prolapsus op. Prolapsus ani, technically called also exania, or archoptosis, but, more correctly, prolapsus, or pro- cidentia recti, is commonly described as presenting itself under three forms ; in one, the protrusion of tlie rectum involves both its mucous and nmscular tunics ; in a second, its mucous coat alone ; in a