I HiTi G92 TALIPES. Ligaments.—The important deviations desciibeJ in the relative positions of the hones necessitate some important changes in the ligaraents connected with tlie ankle and transverse tarsal joints. The ligamentous structures at the posterior part of the ankle-joint, and the posterior portions of the lateral ligaments, become much elongated and attenuated, this condition being in some degree dependent upon the defective state of the nutrition of the limb. The ligamentous structures in front of the ankle-joint become shortened by a process of adaptation during growth, and, when the delormitj' has been of some years' duration, largely contribute to the persistence of the distortion. All the deep ligaments in the plantar aspect of the foot and the interosseous bands of ligament I have found, by dissection, to be shortened, in adaptation to the abrupt flexion of the foot from the transverse tarsal joint above described. These ligaments and liga- mentous bands are thick and strong, and, as it has appeared to me, offer the greatest resistance to the restoration of the form of the foot. As allied to the ligamentoiis structures, I may here advert to the condition of the Plantar fascia, which in this deformity will be found to be shortened or contracted, as it is called, to an extent corresponding to the general shortening of the foot, which, as already explained, is produced by the 03 calcis assuming a vertical instead of a horizontal position, and by the anterior portion of the foot being depressed, or bent downwards from the transverse tarsal joint. Muscles.—In cases of non-congenital talipes calcaneus, the muscles are found to be in different conditions, according to the causes producing the deformity; but when this distortion has been produced by paralysis, its most frequent cause, the muscles of the leg and foot are found to be in a wasted and atrophied condition. The calf of the leg is extremely attenuated, in consequence of the complete and persistent paralytic condition of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. In cases of long standing, these muscles, and sometimes all the muscles of the leg, are found to be in the most advanced stage of fatty degeneration; the muscular structure being completely destroyed, and replaced by fatty tissue, free oil-globules, and fibrous tissue, in varying proportions in different muscles. Vessels and Nerves.—There are no deviations in direction, of surgical importance, in the vessels and nerves, such as have been described in the more complicated distortion of varus; but in aduU cases, these structures become atrophied and diminished in size, as Cruveilhier described them in a case of adult non-congenital paralytic varus. Resemblance of this Deformity to the Distortion of the Foot artificially pro- duced AMONG THE CHINESE.—Dr. Little has furnished us with " an anatomical drawing of the hones of the foot of a Chinese lady, obtained during the late China Expedition," which exhibits conditions very analogous to those above described as existing in the severe adult cases of the non- congenital form of calcaneus of paralytic origin. The OS calcis holds a completely vertical position, and the anterior portion of the foot is bent downwards from the transverse tarsal joint ; so that the foot is folded upon itself in the direction of its length, the ankle joint and the transverse tarsal joint being the two centres of motion. In the Chinese distortion, however, which is pro- duced by tightly bandaging the foot in early life, the plialanges of the great toe alone remain extended, and give a pointed form to the com- pressed and distorted foot. Pathology.—EliolMjy and mode of Production. I. Non-congenital talipes calcaneus is most fre- quently the result of infantile paralysis, occurring during the first dentition, from sixteen months to six years of age, and producing complete and persistent paralysis of the muscles of the calf, and sometimes also complete or partial paralysis of all the muscles of the leg below the knee ; but in the latter cases, recovery of the anterior muscles to some extent usually occurs. 2. It may also be the result of imperfect union of the tendo-Achillis, or union through the medium of an excessive length of new connecting material, in such cases often imperfectly formed, either after accidental rupture of this tendon, or after its division, probably for the cure of the opposite deformity-—viz. talipes equinus. Talipes calcaneus has also been produced by the contraction of a burn-cicatrix on the leg and dorsum of the foot, but I have never witnessed any example of this form. Numerical Importance.—In the table of 1,009 cases of non-congenital deformities of the feet, previously referred to, 110 cases of non- congenital talipes calcaneus and calcaneo-valgus are recorded, and were thus distributed : Affecting the right foot „ left „ ,, both feet 35 22 and 14 others coexisting with other deformities or paralytic affections. Thus, in 74 cases out of 110, only one foot was affected; and additional confirmation of the general statement that infantile paralysis, upon which this deformity nearly always depends, generally affects only one side of the body. Prognosis.—As non-congenital talipes cal- caneus is usually the result of infantile paralysis, especially aflfecting the muscles of the calf, but sometimes also the other muscles of the leg, and persistent in its character, as evidenced by the existence of the deformity, the prognosis must generally be unfavourable. The foot may bo improved in form, and rendered more useful, but there can be no hope of curing the paralysis. In some cases dependent upon other causes than paralysis, as above described, the prognosis may be more favourable, but it is unnecessary further to allude to the conditions in these exceptional cases; they will be at once recognised by the surgeon. Treatment.—If detected in the early stage, increase of the deformity may be prevented by the patient wearing a high-heeled boot m tlio daytime, with a light steel support on each side, furnished with what is known to the mstrument maker as a " stop-joint " at the ankle—i.e. a jonit which will not allow of flexion of the foot (tiiouglx in the early stage this will not always be neces- sary), and the foot should be kept fiat m a slipper with a metal sole-plate at night. If deformity has taken place to a mode ate extent only, tl^e form of the foot b« ■"'^^ bv a Scarpa's shoe with a transverse joint m the ment. Tiie same kind ot >v»"^ o > always with a stop-joint, may be used.