428 PALATE, FISSURE OF. and the mouth by a piece of silver, enamel, or other substance, so fitted as to remain in it without shift- ing." Mr. Listen, in his Operative Surgery, pub- lished in 1840, appeared to consider it so entirely out of the province of the surgeon, that he did not even refer to it; his remarks on split palate being entirely confined to fissure of the velum pendulum palati. Sir W. Fergusson, in 1844, says:—"Until a recent date, the cleft in the hard palate has been deemed beyond the reach of surgical skill, but Dr. Mason Warren, of Boston, has recently, by a pro- ceeding strictly surgical, closed the fissure here as well as in the soft parts. I have resorted to the operation in several instances, but without success. The process is exceedingly difficult." The history of the surgical treatment of the hard palate dates from this period. Since Dr. Warren's paper, which appeared in the New England Jour- nal for 1843, many surgeons in this country, as ■well as on the continent and in America, have per- formed the operation with success. We proceed first to describe the operation on the soft palate, called staphyloraphy, as performed at the present day. The first step is the improve- ment recommended by Sir William Fergusson, the division of the levatores palati, and the palato- pharyngei muscles. One great obstacle to the success of this operation, previous to Sir William Fergusson's paper, was the violent muscular action which the irritation of the operation appeared to provoke ; this, Sir William was induced, after dissecting a cleft palate, to attribute to the com- bined action of the before-mentioned muscles, and therefore he divided them, rather than, as had hitherto been the fashion, inflict sundry empirical gashes upon the soft palate with the object of re- lieving tension, and paralysing the muscular action of the part. The result of this more reasonable practice has been to make the operation more frequently successful After this step has been taken, the edges of the fissure should be pared with a probe-pointed bistoury, and then brought together and retained in apposition by means of two or three interrupted sutures. All motion of the parts should be guarded against as much as possible. Fluid food should alone be taken for the first forty-eight hours, and this but sparingly The stitches should be carefully cut out on the second or third day. The surgical treatment of the hard palate is, as has been already said, of very recent date. Dr. Mason Warren must be considered as the origina- tor of this operation, which consists in dissecting the soft tissues from the bones of the palate, by means of knives with short angular blades con trived for the purpose {Med. Chirm: Trans. vol. xxxix.), so as to form two flaps, falling dovyn- ■wards towards the tongue, the edges of which shall meet in the mesial line; these edges are then to be pared, so as to present clean-cut raw surfaces, which are to be kept in contact by means of the interrupted suture, until union has taken place. In those cases where the fissure extends through both hard and soft palates, the operation must be divided into two, three, or even more parts, as, for several reasons, it is injudicious to attempt the union of a large surface at once. In these cases the operator generally selects the an- terior extremity to commence upon. Of the pro- priety of performing tliis operation many surgeons have grave doubts. Fergusson says :—" In the generality of such cases, I believe that the patient had better remain satisfied with an obturator." Erichsen, in his Science and Art of Surgery, 1053, says :—" This operation has not been hitherto successful, I believe, in this country. Fissures of the hard palate usually require to be closed by means of an obturator." Miller, in his Practical Surgery, 1852, says:— " If the aperture be large, the deficiency can only be supplied by mechanical contrivance. If, how- ever, it resembles merely a fistulous opening, closures of the mucous membrane may be ob- tained by the occasional application of a heated wire." The late Mr. Avery, of Charing Cross Hospital, appears to have been the first English surgeon who obtained any encouraging measure of success in this operation. Mr. Pollock records, in a paper published in the Medico-Cliirurgical Society''s Transactions, 1856, two cases successfullj' treated by that gentleman. Mr. Pollock enjoyed the benefit of Mr. Avery's friendship, and assisted him in some of his opera- tions on the hard palate, and to this circumstance he attributes, in some measure, his own success in this operation, which appears to have exceeded that of others. Some part of his success also he attributes to the instruments he uses, which have been made according to his own directions. On this point he remarks :—" The first consideration must be paid to |the instruments which are neces- sary in these operations ; a consideration of the utmost importance ; as much so, indeed, as any other point in connection with the treatment of these cases. The broader cutting edge should be chiefly employed, in preference to the narrower blades, as it secures greater expedition with less chance of bruising the soft parts. I prefer, through- out the detaching process, the broadest-edged blade that can be conveniently used. I have had several new knives constructed." In this paper Mr. Pollock records two cases of his own which were successful, and since that paper was read he has reported in the journals other cases in which he has operated successfully, but the writer has yet to see a case in v/hich, where union has been com- plete, any marked improvement in the power of articulation has followed. This strange fact has also been noticed by others. Some three years since M. Ne'laton published his determination never again to subject a patient to the risks and pain of this operation, because he had not, in any instance, found a satisfactory improvement in the power of enunciation follow. We will now proceed with the history of the mechanical treatment of cleft palate. Since the first surgical attempt to remedy this defect dates only as far back as 1760, we may expect to find the help of the mechanic invoked to overcome the most disagreeable and inconvenient effects of cleft palate, and accordingly, in all the oldest works on surgery the writer has had tnue to ex- amine, when reference is made to this condition ot the mouth, obturators are spoken of as the only lemedv. Thus, James Guillemcau, 159a, Am- brose Pard, 1665, Neister, 1756, and others speak .,f and describe artificial palates for this defect. Al- thongh these old writers speak of gold and silver plates being made for the relief of these cases,_v et it is evident that they could have been of little or