798 TUMOR. benign. Tliey consist of simple cysts, lipomn, fibrnn-.a, chondroma, osteoma, true neuroma, horny papilloma. 2. Tumors with very great diversity in rapidity of growth, and great proneness to local return; they become rarely infectious, but often appear in great numbers; e.g., sarcoma, adenoma. 3. Tumors of rapid growth, which are always infectious, show not only great proneness to local return, but very frequent infiltration of the neigh- bouring lymph glands, and successive appearance of many similar tumors in different organs; e.g., carcinoma. 4. Tumors of rapid growth and of very infec- tious nature, with, not uncommonly, at the same time the appearance of many similar secondary tumors, always very soft; e.g., medullary fungus.] Besides many operations which have of late years been performed, and are remarkable on ac- count of the great size of the swellings removed, others, still more interesting, claim attention on account of the nature and situation of the parts ex- tirpated. On the excision of the thyroid gland I need not here dwell, as it is elsewhere noticed (see Thyroid Gland); but I feel called upon to men- tion some other very bold operations, the particulars of which are full of instruction. The first is that performed by Mr. Goodlad, of Burj', in Lanca- shire. The case was an immense tumor, situated on the left side of the face and neck, and the base of which was about twenty-eight inches in circum- ference. The disease extended from the external canthus of the eye above to within three-quarters of an inch of the clavicle below, and some idea of the depth of its attachments may be conceived, when it is known that the whole parotid gland was involved in it. For the purpose of obviating all danger of hsemorrhage, Mr. Goodlad began with tying tlie carotid artery. The nature of the opera- tion will be best understood by adverting to the appearances afterwards presented by the wound. " The whole sterno-mastoid muscle was exposed, and its fibres dissected clean, except about half an inch from its insertion into the clavicle. The ■wound extended backwards from behind the mas- toid process to tiie trachea anteriorly, but became narrower in the direction of the muscle at the lower part of the neck. The submaxillary gland was exposed, and about one-fifth of its substance not appearing healthy, was removed. The digastric, and the greater portion of the mylo-hyoideus, were exposed. The ramus of the jaw was only covered by periosteum, except where covered by the mas- seter muscle, part of which, not appearing healthy, was dissected away. The whole of the condyloid process of that bone was laid bare in the same manner, and behind it the pterygoid muscles were also exposed. The membrane of the cheek was only covered by a cellular substance, which did not appear healthy; but sufficient skin was saved to cover the zygoma. The parotid gland teas eittirdy removed.'"' This enormous wound healed in ten weeks; but unfortunately the cure was not perma- nent; the disease returned, and, fifteen months after the operation, the poor woman died. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 112, &c. vol. viii. p. 582.) llcspecting tlie foregoing severe operation, many surgeons may doubt the propriety of tying the carotid artery, as a preparatory step, and, in- deed, it is positively condemned in an anonymoui note attached to the above case; simple temporary pressure on the exposed vessel being represented as preferable. [Acupressure might be employed instead of a ligature.] Another interesting case of removal of a large tu- mor involving the parotid gland, and connected with the transverse process of the atlas, the basij of the skull, the meatus auditorius, mastoid pro- cess, and angle of the jaw is narrated by Mr. Car- niichael, who, in order to complete the dissection, was obliged to divide the trunk of the facial arterj-: "Instantly (says he) an alarming gush of blood, which evidently came from a large vessel, followed the division ; a7id ihe danger appeared the more im- minent as the pressure, which Mr. Todd applied with all the force he could exert upon the carotid trunk, tvas actually incapable of repressing the torrent. There was not a moment to be lost. Mr. Colles plunged a dry sponge to the bottom of the wound, and firmly pressed on the bleeding vessel, while I made a horizontal section of the tumor, till I arrived at the cavities occupied by the sponge, with the view of exposing as quickly as possible the mouth of the bleeding vessel. This was ac- complished in sufficient time to save the patient's life." Mr. Carmichael, at the conclusion of the history, remarks that, if he were called upon to perform such an operation again, he would, in tlie first instance, pass a ligature wider the carotid trunk, which might he tightened, or not, as occa- sion should require. The case here spoken of had a successful termination. One remarkable consequence was a paralysis of one side of the face, brought on by the division of the trunk of the portio dura in the operation. (See Trans, of the King''s and Queen^s College of Physicians, vol. ii. p. 101, 8vo. Dublin, 1818.) The next instance which I shall notice, of the removal of an enormously enlarged parotid gland, is that recorded by Klein, of Stuttgardt. The pa- tient was a woman of seventy, and the swelling extended from the ear to the shoulder. In the operation, all the branches of the facial nerve were divided ; a piece of the masseter was left hanging; the external carotid artery and pat vagimi were left quite bare ; the dissected sternor mastoid lay on one side ; and the temporal, exter-' nal maxillarj-, and auricular arteries, were of coursi divided, along with several arteries of the neck} the largest of these were tied, j-et the bleeding was very considerable. The event was so suc^ cessful, that in less than three weeks the wound entirely healed. The same distinguished surgeon also removed a fatty tumor, extending from ihe buttock to thf ham, ujid mcasuiing three feet one inch in leniith, and two feet six inches in circumference. Klein undertook its removal, on the supposition that it was an encysted tumor lying above the fascia lata; but it turned out to be fat—a lipoma—coming from beneath it, and reaching to the thigh-bone, and in every direction amongst the muscles, nerve*, and blood-vessels of the thigh. At length, pa™y with the fingers, and partly with the knife, the fatty mass was separated from all its iniportan' everal vessels were tied, amongst them the profunda femoris. H"*^'*!?'^' not more than a pound of blood was lost. ^ tumor, after its removal, weighed twcni;/'-^^