VOL. II. 0 G of the instrument. But it is very difficult to per- suade some women to take this trouble. Thus, large boxwood balls and rings have been worn for months and years; and sometimes inflamma- tion, ulceration, hscmorrhage, and even perforation of the recto-vaginal or vesico-vaginal septum has ensued. A woman was admitted into the Hotel- Dieu by Dupuytren. She had worn a stem-pes- sary ; the stem had broken off. The ring of the instrument was felt by Dupuytren projecting into the rectum, and the sound detected the anterior border which had penetrated into the bladder. It was removed with some difficulty. Many similar cases are related. M. LUders (see Monatsschrifl fur Geburtshunde, 1858) tells the following: A lady had a pessary applied by a midwife. It was of caoutchouc stuffed with hair, 3^ inches long, 2-J broad, and 1 inch thick. Peritonitis followed, then hectic fever. A swelling was felt between the vagina and rectum; the pessary was not found. Six months later another physician found the same swelling, and'a transverse scar in the posterior vaginal wall. Two years later a fistulous opening appeared in the anterior wall of the rectum, through which the pessary was at last removed. The patient then rapidly recovered. The pessary had first passed into Douglas's space. When pessaries have been worn for a long time, the ostium vaginae sometimes—and this is especially the case in elderly women—gradually contracts, and the opening becomes so small that the instru- ment cannot be taken out without the aid of the surgeon. The writer has experienced more difficulty in delivering women of an imprisoned pessary than of a foetal head. If the instrument is a wooden ball, forceps (curved so as to fit and grasp the sphere be- yond its equator) must be used, and traction must be carefully made in the direction of the axis of the pelvis. It has been necessary to make small in- cisions in the labia to gain sufficient dilatation. Oc- casionally the small obstetric forceps has been used for the purpose, and here the obstetric lever, or one blade of the short forceps, may be very serviceable. The ring-pessaries and Zwanke's hysterophore not seldom give rise to much distress, and even danger. The thin margins of the wings of Zwanke's instruments put the roof of the vagina on the stretch, and the continual pressure causes inflamma- tion, and even ulceration. It has been known to cut through the urethra; more frequently the va- ginal wall contracts below the wings, so as to shut them up in a groove-shaped cavity; in such a case the extraction is sometimes difficult and painful. It is necessary to open the branches of the stem, to ap- proximate the wings, to hook a finger in the angle of the joint, and to extract gradually, so as to overcome the annular contraction of the vagina, carrying tiie instrument backwards along the hollow of the sacrum. To extract an oval or circular ring-pessary, it is necessary first to seize and depress one edge, so as to bring the ring down with its diameter correspond- ing with the axis of the pelvis. A serious danger liaiile to arise from the ring form is that the cer- vix uteri passing through the opening may become fixed and strangulated. In such a case, liberation may be efl^ected by seizing the border of the ring with the index-finger of one hand, whilst the index of the other pushes up the imprisoned cervix. It has been found necessary first to cut the pessary. Dr. Marion Sims says {Clinical Notes on Uterine LYNX. 449 Surgery, London, 1066), he has seen Hodges's open lever-pessaries dig holes in the anterior wall of the vagina, almost through into the bladder; and that he has often seen Mcig's ring-pessary cut a sulcus in the posterior cul-de-sac in the vagina, deep enough to bury the finger in. He relates a sin- gular case, where the disk or cup of a stem-pessary was taken up into the cavity of the uterus, where it remained locked by the contraction of the lower part of the cervix. It was removed by an ingenious adaptation of elastic traction, sustained so long as to wear out the resistance of the cervix. The intra-uterine pessaries of Simpson and Val- leix and others often cause so much irritation as to make it necessary to remove them; they have also caused serious and even fatal metritis, perime- tritis, and peritonitis. The writer has himself been called upon to treat a very severe case of pelvic cel- lulitis and peritonitis due to the use of Simpson's instrument. Fatal cases have been recorded by Cruveilhier (see L'Union medicale, 1854); by Dr. Oldham (see Guy's Hospital Reports, 1849); by M. Depaul (see L' Union medicale, 1854); by M. Ne'la- ton (see op. cit.) Bibliography.—The references given in the course of the article supply the chief bibliographical elements. Consult also P. N. Gerdy, Traite des Pansements, 1839; and the Catalogue of the Ex- hibition of Obstetric Instruments of the Obstetrical Society of London (1866).J Robert Barnes. PHAGEDjENA (from fiym, to eat). An ulcer which spreads, and, as it were, eats away the flesh. Hence the epithet pliagedcenic, so common among surgeons. For an account of phagedsena gangrsenosa, see Hospital Gan- grene ; see also Ulceration and Morti- fication. PHARYNGOTOMUS (from ^ipvyl, the throat, and to^^/, an incision). An instrument for scarifying the tonsils, and for opening ab- scesses about the fauces. It was invented by Petit, and is nothing more than a sort of lancet enclosed in a sheath. By means of a spring the point is capable of darting out to a determinate extent, so as to make the necessary wound, without risk of injuring other parts. [PHARYNX, SURGICAL AFFECTIONS OF. *t£pu7|. Fauees. Gosier mi Arriere-bouche. Schlund. Gidlet. Communicating with the surface by the mouth and nostrils, the pharynx forms the portal to both the windpipe and oesophagus, and has a passage leading into the inner ear. It is in close connection with many important parts,—arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics, and lies in near con- tact with the base of the skull and the spinal column. It is chiefly for these reasons that its lesions and diseases are of so much interest to the surgeon. Its lining membrane is continuous with that of the mouth, nostrils, oesophagus, and larynx, and it is separated from the cervical vertebrre by a some- what loose layer of cellular tissue. It is, moreover surrounded and compressed by muscles, and does not form a complete canal in front till it attains the level of the cricoid cartilage. The root of the tongue and the pillars of the fauces lie at its upper aperture, and below it becomes somewhat nar- rowed as it emerges into the oesophagus, about the level of the fifth cervical vertebra. Pharyngitis.—The pharynx is liable to in- flammation, sometimes of a very violent descrip- tion, which, however, falls more frequently within