MORTIFICATION. Sphacelus implies the total loss of life in the P''"'' "ftei-'ted, the destnictioii of its organisation, the abolition of all its functions, and an absolute inability to resume them again. However, even when we see tiie surface of apart manifestly spha eclated, we must not always conclude that th entire destruction of its whole substance or thick ness is certain ; for, in many cases the disorder only affects the skin and cellular substance. In this state, the integuments frequently slough away leaving the tendons, muscles,, and other ormns perfectly sound. 309 TREATiMENT OP MORTIFICATION. [The word mortification is far too vao-ue and general to admit of being made the basis of practi- cal precepts. It is not the moHiJication but the patient in whom some part tends to mortify, that the surgeon has to treat ; and the conditions may be so widely diverse, that general precepts are almost impossible. Every variety arising from every cause requires to be separately dealt with. The senile gangrene, the traumatic, that arising from ob- struction of vems, that arising from obstruction of arteries, from cold, from heat, from caustics, from animal poisons, all require special consideration.! In the treatment, the surgeon must always have one thing under consideration ; viz. whether the case before him ,s one of acute mortification, at- tended with inflammation and inflammatory fever- or whether it is a chronic mortification, beginning without fever, or attended with a fever of a typhoid nature and great prostration of strength = Bv making up his mind upon this point, the practi- tioner will establish a useful general principle for his guidance, especially in the commencement of tJie treatment. 1. When mortification is acute, and seems to depend on the violence of inflammation, the first indication :s to moderate the inordinate action.of he sanguiferous system, by the prudent employ inent ol such means as are proper for counteract- ing inflammatiou. In short, relief is to be sought in the antiphlogistic regimen, which consists in the employment of blood-letting, purgatives, diapho- letics, and diluents, and in abstinence from all vegetable or animal substances which have a ten- dency to excite or to augment the febrile action. Ibis regimen mu.t be pursued so long as inflara- ZlTl-l'J ""'i""'^^! e-xcept only in cases in which the fever Irom the first, assumes a typhoid mortification takes place without the previous occurrence of fever. JUr. Thomson, from whom I have borrowed the VZ\T >n compound fractures, ery- » pe as carbuncle, hospital gangrene, burn , and f. st-bj e: cases in which the patient it is said, loss ot b ood. I„ niany instances of these in juries and affections (sayshe) biood-lettiiig, I know IS o required; but I am doubtful, evenlfit ea^ generally employed, whether it would produce all tiie misclnets which have of late 70^8 bVen ascribed to it. I believe it to bo the 2^ Clous of anyof the remedies that can be , "^^^^^^ rn ilr in threateiiiiii to terminate in gangrene, and that its use in such «es ought never to be omitted in the yo2 "roMg, and plethoric." (See Ucltcra on hZt p. 559.) Yet,itistobcemploved w h n ^ rft.-n 1 '"-cwnspection ; for, should it be in- judiciously resorted to, from the true state of the system not being understood, the error mny be fol owed by the most fatal consequences. Owii^ to the constitution being generally broken bv in temperance or enfeebled by an impure atmosphere Mr A. Cooper considers it rarely safe in this me- tropolis to take blood from the arm, with the view of checking gangrene; though he acknowledges that the removal of a few ounces of blood is a practice which sometimes answers in the country. It should also be well remembered that, however strongly bleeding may be indicated, the moment 13 not far off when it is totally inadmissible. If the mortification has already made progress, this evacuation is never justifiable. In acute mortification, after as much blood has been taken away as may be deemed safe or proper and this measure must be adopted with extreme circumspection, the other parts of the antiphlogis- tic regimen must be continued, so long as any mcreased action 'of the heart and arteries con- tinues. A strict regimen, which may have been uselul and even necessary, during the inflamma- tory stage, will have a very bad effect, if con- tinued too long, by diminishing the patient's strength, which on the contrary should be sup- ported by the most nourishing food. Sir A. Cooper recommends two or three grains ol the chloride of mercury at night, in order to restore, the secretions of the intestinal canal and liver; and the liquor ammonias acetatis, with a tew drops of the tinct. opii several times a day, with the view of lessening irritability, and tran- quillizing the system. [It seems curious to read now the ideas of siu-- geous two generations ago with regard to bleeding in mortification. It seems generally understood now that the only cases in which it is allowable ai-e certain cases of acute inflammation in healthy per- sons, in which gangrene is threatened owing to some mechanical condition, i.e. when the cornea threatens to slough in gonorrheal ophthalmia; when the alans penis threatens to slough from inflamed chancre or the tip of a finger from abscess in the sheath of the tendons. But in these cases, as in strangulated hernia, or in mortification from ligature, an incidon or otiier mechanical mode of relieving constriction would occur to most surgeons in the place of bleeding. Suppose the case of a young and very plethoric per- son with an injury producing an inflammation threat- ening gangrene, it is quite conceivable that it might be expedient to take a little blood from the arm, or by eeches;^ yet, as Sir A. Cooper said, it will be ' rarely safe." A raised position, iced applications, and incisions, would probably be better remedies tor gangrene threatened by local turgescence.] I next come to a second very essential and im- portant indication to be fulfilled, as soon as the symptoms announcing the existence of the in- flammatory state abate, and the patient begins to be debilitated. 'This indication is to prevent c.c- cessiva toc.akness hj iho suitable employment vf cordials, and particularly of Ionics. These same means also contribute to bring the system into a proper state for freeing itselt from the mortified parts, or, in other words, for detaching them. In order to fulfil the above indication, it is ne- cessary to proscribe a nourishing diet, with a cor- taiii quantity of good wine, proportioned to the patient's strength, and tlio symptoms of the com-