side usually collapse when there is a_ free commu- nication between the air and the inside of the thorax, they would do so on both sides, were an opening made at the same time into each pleural sac. It is hardly necessary to remark that in this condition the patient could not breathe, and would die suffocated. [The following description of the operation performed in Mr. Cooper's time, ia now superseded by the use of the trocar either with or without an attached syringe. This latter mode of operating will be presently described.] The operation consists in making an incision, about two inches long, through the integuments which cover the space between the sixth and seventh true ribs, just where the indigitations of the serratus major anticus muscle meet those of the externus obliquus. Here it is unnecessary to divide any muscular fibres, except those of the in- tercostal muscles, and, by putting the patient in a proper posture, the opening will be depending enough for any purpose whatsoever. The surgeon, avoiding the lower edge of the upper rib, where the intercostal artery lies, is then cautiously to divide the layers of the intercostal muscles, till he brings the pleura into view, when this membrane is to be very carefully divided with a lancet or bistoury. The instrument should never be introduced deeply, lest the lungs be injured. For this reason, few modern surgeons would choose to plunge a trocar into the pleura when the opening can be so much more safely made with a bistoury. The only reason assigned for the trocar is that the inter- costal artery is less likely to be hurt by it than a cutting instrument, and that the canula is useful in maintaining the opening, and for the occasional use of injections. The size of the opening in the pleura should not be larger than necessary. The discharge of blood and matter will of course require a freer aperture than that of air or water. If requisite, a canula may be introduced into the wound, for the purpose of facilitating the evacua- tion of the fluid ; and it may even in some cases be proper to let this instrument remain in the part, in order to let the water or pus escape, as often as accumulation takes place. It is obvious, however, that a canula for this object should only be just long enough to enter the cavitj' of the pleura, and should have a broad rim to keep it from slipping into the chest. A piece of sticking- plaster would easily fix the canula, which might be stopped up with a cork, or any other convenient thing, or left open, according as the circumstances of the case and the judgment of the surgeon should direct. Laennec preferred the space between the fifth and sixth ribs. " Many reasons (he says) point out this spot as the best for the operation. We know that the upper lobe adheres to the ribs more frequently than any other part of the^lungs, and the lower lobe is frequently attached to the dia- phragm, while adhesions very seldom exist at the central part of the chest ; and even should there chance to be any old adhesions in this point, they may be readily and certainly discovered by some remains of respiration over tlieir site, and the place *f the operation may then be varied accordingly. Besides, we know that the thickest false mem- branes exist at the junction of the diaphragm with the walls of the chest, and that on the right side an enlarged liver frequently reaches as high as the sixth, or even the fifth, rib ; in which case, NTESIS. 439 when the operation is performed in the usual situa- tion, the instrument, instead of entering the chest, would transfix the diaphragm and penetrate the abdomen." This accident, happened to Laennec himself in a case of pneumothorax; La Motte com- mitted a similar blunder. (See Traili Com}), de la CMr. t. ii. obs. 77, p. 292.) The only reason for operating between the sixth and seventh ribs is to have a depending opening ; but this object may be attained by operating between the fifth and sixth ribs, and directing the patient to lie on the diseased side. Some practitioners deem it prudent not to let out the whole of a large collection of fluid at once, but gradually, lest dangerous syncope should be induced. (See Toiviisend, in Cyclop, of Bract. Med. art. Emjiyema.) [With regard to the place of election for the performance of the operation considerable dilTer- ence of opinion exists, some surgeons preferring as high as the fifth intercostal space, some as low as the ninth, while the intermediate spaces are selected by others. The surgeon must to a certain extent be guided by the circumstances attending each case as to the level at which it will be most advisable to introduce the trocar. Whatever may be the level determined upon, it is obvious that the middle third of the chest between the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major muscles offers the least obstacles to the operation. Two or three inches below the angle of the scapula, however, is a favourite position with some surgeons. After all, the seventh intercostal space mentioned by Mr. Cooper at the digitation of the serratus magnus muscle is as eligible a situation as any. In order to judge of the presence or absence of adhesions or of solid lung in selecting the place for the intro- duction of the trocar, every advantage should be taken that the aid of percussion, palpation, or the use of the stethoscope can afford. When the most eligible spot, after careful exploration, has been decided upon, the operative procedure may be conducted in the following way. The patient should be placed in the sitting position on a chair or sofa, so arranged that his body should not be impeded by the back of the chair or sofa from inclining laterally or directly backwards at the option of the surgeon as the operation pro- ceeds. If the patient be too weak to leave the horizontal position, he may be brought to the edge of the bed, and the part of the chest to be operated on made to project beyond it, supported if neces- sary by an assistant; or the patient, if able to bear it, may be placed in the sitting posture across the bed, close to its edge, as recommended by Mr. Cook, so that the body may be directed from side to side or backwards beyond the bed as required, sup- ported by assistants. To make sure of the presence of fluid at the point selected, the trocar may be preceded by an exploring punctiu'e made by means of a very fine trocar. Should the existence of fluid be indicated, the smaller instrument may be removed, and a larger one, about the -^r^ih. of an inch in diameter, be at once plunged into the intercostal space close to the upper edge of the rib, or at any rate so far from the lower edge as to avoid all risk of wound- ing the intercostal vessels. As the skin is the most resisting structure the trocar has to perforate, many surgeons prefer making a puncture in it with a scalpel before introducing the trocar. As the fluid flows, the greatest care should be taken that the