VISION. 996 num of Sydenham. In surgery, it is often pre- ferred to the common tincture of opium, as an application to the eye. VIPER, BITE OF. See Wounds. VISION. All parts of the e)'e necessary for ■vision being healthy, to see an object with the greatest possible distinctness, it must have a certain size, be placed in good light, and at a distance which allows the rays which come from the object to be brought to a focus in the yellow spot of the retina, where a well-defined inverted image of the object is formed. This image, through the fibres of the optic nerve, must be conveyed to the brain, there perceived, and again projected in an inverted direction towards the object. The layer of rods and bulbs is supposed to be the per- ceptive part of the retina. At the yellow spot, where the most distinct vision takes place, this layer consists of small bulbs, with a few ganglion cells and optic nerve-fibres intervening between them and the vitreous chamber. Thus the rays of light reach the bulbs more directly than in any other part of the retina. The undulations of the rays of light, through passing into the elements of inwige is spread over a larger nnmber of perceptive elements of the retina. If the letter is held further off than 50 feet—say at 55 or 60 feet- it can no more be perceived distinctly, because the image on the retina is too small. If we measure the angle on either side of the point of erossinjf which the lines form with each other when drawn from the two ends of the letter to the correspond- ing point of the image in the retina, the letter being held at 50 feet, we find that each angle measures 5°, and express this by saying that the letter I is seen under an angle of 6°. If the letter is held nearer, the angle becomes larger; if it ig held further off, it becomes smaller. The further from the eye the letter I is held, the smaller is ita image on the retina, and the smaller the angle formed by the straight lines drawn from the two ends of the letter to those of its inverted image on the retina, and the greater the acuteness of vision if this image can still be perceived distinctly. Therefore, by determining the degrees, i.e. the value of the smallest angle which corresponds to the image of an object which can still be recog- nised by the eye, we determine the degree of this layerr produce a change "which is termed the acuteness of vision. This angle is termed the perception of the object from which the rays j angle of vision, or the visual angle. Some persons emanated. 1 see objects under a smaller angle, and^therefore The part played by the other elements of the retina in the act of vision is not understood The optic nerve-fibres convey the impression received from the retina. They themselves do not possess perception of light. This is well known as regards the optic disc, or blind spot. That the same applies to the optic nerve-fibres Hpon the retina, is inferred from the fact that the shadows of the retinal vessels in onr own retina can be made visible to ourselves in a dark room, by turning the cornea inwards towards the nose as much as possible, and by then moving to and fro upon the sclerotic the image of the flame of a candle or gaslight, brought to a focus upon the sclerotic by means of a 2-inch or 3-inch convex lens. The blood-vessels ramify among and beneath the layer of optic nerve-fibres, and their larger branches being made visible, the perceptive part of the retina is supposed to lie behind the layer of optic nerve-fibres. To determine the acuteness of vision ( = V or S, vision or sight) of an eye, it becomes necessary to ascertain the size of the smallest object which can still be seen distinctly, and to devise a mode of expressing the result obtained, and with it the degree of the acuteness of vision. The smallest angle under which, by the normal eye, an object can still be recognised distinctly, is one of five degrees ( = 5°), e.g.: Take the letter I, which we suppose to be one inch high, its width being equal to one-fifth of its height; place that letter at 50 feet from the normal eye under examination, and it can be recognised. To ascer- tain under what angle it is seen, we have to draw a straight line from the extreme points, i.e. from the upper and lower ends of the letter to the two corresponding points of the small inverted image of the letter in the retina. These lines cross each other within the eye, and at the point of crossing form equal angles. If the letter is brought nearer—say to a distance of 40 feet or 30 feet— the image on the retina is larger, and the letter, therefore, can be better perceived, because its possess a greater acuteness of vison. But people in general, to see an object distincth', must see it under an angle of 6°. It is not necessary directly to measure this angle, as long as we possess a series of objects the sizes of which are known, and the furthest distances at which they are still recog- nised by the normal eye have been ascertained by experiment. For practical purposes, as objects with which te ascertain the acuteness of vision, ' test types, or series of letters of different determined sizes, have been mtroduced, of which those of Dr. Snellen of Utrecht (Holland) are the most perfect. An explanation of the principles adopted in selecting and arranging the letters, and of the conclusions which may be drawn from the n suUs of examination with the " test types," are given by Dr. Snellen, together with the types. Those^wko may not be able to obtain the " test types can arrive at tolerably accurate results by using any other type, as long as the thickness of the strokes of the letters employed is equal to one-fifth of their height. The height of the letters should be the same for each series, but vary according to the distance at which they are held from the eye. Experiment has shown that the furthest dis- tance from the eye at whicli a letter measuring about one-fiftieth" of an inch ( = 3V') ''^'8 can be distinctly recognised by a normal eye, 1 one foot (=1'). That, when measuring bDoot the furthest distance at which recognised is 2'; when measuring about 5*, "jT^-^l it is 5'; when measuring about »§" or . . 1 10' ; for letters fg" in height, 20' ; for tl.o e iSLW it is 100', &c. ; provided always that 11 thickness of the stroke of each letter be one-hii f u.:..i.i w„ .v.n„ tliiic nrrniiffe a series of its height. We may thus arrange a letters, numbering each series, so that tiie ^ of the series No. 1, or of series I,'"f ' J," in height, and should be recognised at i , nol further ; those marked II, or No. 2, should recognised at 2'; those marked XX, or SSo. ~ • 20', &c. &c. The number nl^o^"/"'". 'i,ich therefore, indicates the distance, m feet, ai