240 LITHOTOMY laterally, as also the orifice of the bladder. The bistoury being withdrawn, the groove of tlie director serves to guide the gorget (a blunt one) into the bladder. I then introduce my forefinger along the gorget (which is now easily done, as the urethra and prostate being divided do not oppose its entrrince), and with it I dilate the passage for the stone, in proportion to the size of which I discover it to be. This dilatation being made, I withdraw my finger and use the proper forceps." (ic Dmns Operations, Ed. 5, 1784. London.) Pnjola, of Venice, was the pupil of Le Cat, and his method resembles that of his master. He is stated to have cut for the stone 550 patients with success, which deserves notice, because his opera- tion has for its principles dilatation, and no divi- sion of any part of the bladder. He makes an incision into the groove of the staff with a lancet- pointed double-edged knife, called an urethrotome, the blade of which has upon its centre a groove, that is continued to its point, and serves to guide the beak of another instrument, called the cysto- tome, into the groove of the staff. As the pro- fessed intention of the cystotome is only to cut the prostate gland, its name is ridiculous. It consists of a handle and very slender blade, which is not connected with the handle, but with its sheath, by means of a little joint, close to the beak. "When the cystotome is opened as far as poss ible, the end of the blade, furthest from the beak, is twelve lines from the sheath. In this position it is iield by a transverse piece of steel, which admits of being pushed more or less out at the option of the surgeon, and can be fixed by means of a screw. Pajola, like Scarpa, considers cutting the neck of the bladder dangerous, and he merely divides the prostate, after which he intro- duces a bhuit gorget, and along this a species pf forceps for dilating the neck of the bladder in all directions. (X. F. Rudloifer, uher die Opera- tion des Blasensteins nach Pajola's Metliode.) As Langenbeck observes, great as the success of this lithotoraist has been, his method of operating has little to recommend it, and everything must be ascribed to his individual skill and intimate knowledge of the parts. Langenbeck even pre- fers Le Cat's method, in which there is no need of such a multiplicity of instruments. The blunt gorget and dilator are perfectly unnecessary, as the finger would do the purpose of both, _ The danger of the beak of the gorget slipping out of the groove of the staff is one of the chief objections urged against the employment of the first of these instruments. In order to obviate this inconvenience, the late Sir Charles Blicke had the groove of the staff and the beak of the gorget so constructed that they locked into each other, and continued fixed, except near the ex- tremity of the staff. This contrivance, though ingenious, is not resorted to, for the point oi con- tact between the beak and body of the instru- Tnent is necessarily so small that it is liab e to break. It is allowed, however, tliat this objec- tion might be removed; but another one is sti 1 urged, viz. the beak and groove catching on each other, so as to resist the eiforts made to intro- duce the gorget into the bladder. Every operator knows that much of the safety of the lateral ope- vation, as performed at present, depends on the case with which the beak of the gorget slides along the groove of the staff, Le Cat in 1747 devised a similar instrument. Some operators have a good deal of trouble in dissecting into the groove of the staff. Sir James Earle invented an instrument to fiicilitate this part of the operation. It consists of a short staff with an open groove, connected by a hinge with the handle of another staff of the usual size, shape, curvature, and length, which may be called the long staff. The hinge, by means of a pin, is capable of being disjointed at pleasure. The short staff is sufficiently curved to go over the penis and scrotum, and long enough to reach to that part of the long staff which is just below the beginning of its curvature. The end of the short staff, made somewhat like a pen with the sides sharpened, and finely pointed, is adapted to shut into the groove of the long staff, and its cutting edges are defended from being injured by a proper receptacle, which is prepared for it in the groove of the long staff. When the instrument is shut, the groove of the short staff leads into that of the long one, so as to form one connected and continued groove. The short staff is rendered steady by the segment of an arch, projecting from the long one through it. The long staff, separated from the short one, is first introduced in the usual manner, and, the stone having been felt, the short staff is to be put on the other at the hinges. The incision is then to be made in the usual manner, through the skin and cellular membrane, and a second incision through the muscles, so as nearly to lay bare the urethra. The operator then, being perfectly convinced that the extremity of the long'staff is sufficiently within the bladder, must bring the end of the short staff down, and press it against the urethra, which it will readily pierce, and pass into the cavity prepared for it in the groove of the long staff. The two pieces being now firmly held together by the operator's left hand, nothing remains to be done except applying the beak of the gorget to the groove of the short staff, and pushing it on till it is received in the groove of the long one, and if this latter be made with a contracted groove it will just enter where the contraction begins, and thus must be safely conducted into the bladder. {Earle on tU Stone, Appendix, Ed. 2,1796.) c The late Mr. Dcase, of Dublin, and Mr. Muir, ot Glasgow, considering that the gorget was more apt to slip from the staff, in consequence of the latter be- ino- curved, and that its beak never slips from the groove of the staff in operating on women, proposed a method which in principle resembles that of Le Dran. They introduce, as usual, a curved grooved staff into the bladder, m.ike the common incisions, and open the membranous part of the urethra, but, instead of introducing a gorget on the curved staff, they conduct along the groove a straight director or staff into the bladder, and immediately withdraw the other. The gorget is then introduced, ihc operation may be performed with a narrow bistoury, as advised by Mr. A, Burns. Of cutting toioards the st/mphysis ptihis.—I have already made reference to the plan of dividing both sides of the prostate gland, as F'lf 1004 by Dr. Physick, of the United Stat s, .and nearly thirty years ago by Sir Astley Cooper, with a beaked double-edged scalpel, or a double- edged gorget in cases where the stone was large,