pecially to operations upon the pelvic structures. It rests upon the great size of the blood-vessels aud upon tlie great afflux of blood drawn to tlie generative organs under the stimulus of the deve- lopmental force of the ovum. The vessels ot the uterus, vagina, and vulva are enormously increased iu volume ; they freely inosculate bv Inrg inosculate by large branches ; the intermediate channels connecting arteries and veins are not so much capillaries, as is the case elsewhere, as large plexuses, m some cases associated with erectile organs, and these plexuses are connected with each other, and thus •with the whole system of pelvic arteries and veins Sometimes also the veins of the vagina and vulva become varicose. To wound a vessel in one part is, in effect, to tap the whole vascular system of the pelvis. The risk of profuse htemorrhage and the difficulty of controlling it are therefore unusually great. Independently of this danger, however, it does not appear that any peculiar risk attends operations upon the pelvic structures owing to connexion with, or proximity to, the gravid uterus. A young woman several months pregnant was under Mr. Curling at the London Hospital, having an enormous growth of syphilitic condylomata around the vulva. The writer did not hesitate to recommend abscision, one reason that weighed being the obstacle the diseased mass ■would create to delivery, and the risk of inflam mation and sloughing from the bruising and tear- ing almost certain to occur during the passage of the child. The htemorrhage was controlled with out much difficulty, and the pregnancy was undis- turbed. The inference, then, from all the above consider ations, is that the period of pregnancy, of childbed d of lactation is one that the surgeon should avoid, if he can select a time for the performance of a severe operation. But this inference, cannot justify an absolute prohibition, The principle which should guide the surgeon •when considering the propriety of performing r serious operation upon a pregnant woman appear to be this: If the surgical complication is in its natm-e progressive, and causing injury to the constitution, so that grave results may be expected to arise before the expiration of the term of preg- nancy, it is wise to disregard the pregnancy and to be governed simply by the urgency of the particular case, as seen from a strictly surgical point of view. Reflection will indeed show that instant action may be the most promising course to adopt in the interest of the unborn child, ■which is boimd up with that of the expectant mother. Many examples miglit be added to that of M. Nicod to prove that pregnant women may bear severe injuries and operations. Mr. Napper, of Cranley, records a case of a woman seven moutlis gone in her first pregnancy, whose arm lie ampu- tated on account of scrofulous disease of the elbow. The stump healed well, and she was delivered at term of a living child. (See Ohsldvical Trans- actioiis for 1 !iG5, vol. vii.) The matter may be thus stated in general terms : Tiie healthy ovum adheres to the healthy uterus with wonderful tenacity. The ovum, the nidus, and the woman's constitution being sound, there is no kind or degree of severity of injury, from which recovery is possible, too great to be borne by a pregnant wouian, without inducing abortion PREGNANCY. 477 or materially retarding repair and recovery. This rule even holds in the case of a constitution im- paired by a chronic disease. The case is, however, very different when the constitutional disease is acute or comes on suddenly; then, the blood- change being great, sudden abortion is very likely to happen. Mere physical injury not complicated with severe mental shock or emotion does not appear to endanger the continuance of gestation. Emotion, however, independently of injury, by causing a sudden diversion of blood to the pelvic organs, and perhaps by disturbing the healthy equilibrium and distribution of nerve-force is very apt to cause abortion. Now the influence of emotion is greatly removed by inducing anaesthesia before operating, so that the risk is almost reduced to that attending upon the physical injury. An important motive for removing a surgical complication may be found in the circumstance that some morbid conditions admitting of removal by surgical operations are liable to be much aggravated immediately after labour, under the influence of that momentous change in the consti- tution of the blood which follows upon this great and suddei) physiological revolution. Tumors or other growths again may incur the risk of serious bruising or other injurj- from violent pressure during labour, or this pressure, bearing first upon a tumor, may cause stretching or laceration of the healthy structures to which it may be attached; or lastly a tumor may be of such a nature and so situated as to offer complete obstruction to delivery, and thus lead to rupture of the womb. In anyone of these cases, therefore, it will be prudent to operate as early in pregnancy as possible, provided operation can ensure the removal of the imperiling complication. This rule will especially apply to some tumors about the vulva, to fibroid polypi in the vagina, and to cancerous growths limited to the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri. A most important question arises in some cases : Is it better to deal at once surgically with the com- plicating disease, or to reduce tlie case first of all to its simplest expression by terminating the pregnancy ? Certainly it is sometimes more de- sirable to bring on premature labour than to defer au operation until after labour at term, or to ope- rate during pregnancy. Is it possible to define these cases, or to lay down a general principle to. guide in the choice of action ? Tlie cases in which this question arises are chiefly those of tumors iui the pelvis or abdomen, and perhaps the most fre- quent one is that of ovarian cystic tumor. Sup- posing that pregnancy co-exist with such a tumor, and that the abdominal distension have become so. great that relief must be given, shall the surgeon, or the obstetric practitioner intervene ? It is clear that we may either tap tlie cyst or empty the uterus. I presume that the major operation of ovariotomy would not be contemplated. The obser- vation of a considerable number of cases of severe! constitutional or organic disease complicating preg- nancy, and of ovarian tumors progressing sinnil- timeously with prcgnancj', has li'd nie to the general conclusion that it is belter to bring the pregnancy to an end in the first instance, and then to deal with the simple disease according to its particular indica- tions. Tiiis conclusion is tliu result of three dif- ferent orders of observationB, all touverging to ther