LARYNGOSCOPE. 178 Bize of a pea, situated immediately 'below the origin of the true vocal cords. In speaking this ■would glide between the vocal cords, and so prevent their approximation. In December, 1862, the pedicle was caught in the wire of the gcraseur, and the tumour was detached, in the presence of several gentlemen. The result was marvellous, for the voice instantaneously became altered and sonorous, the chest filled with air, and the patient felt as if suddenly possessed of increased bodily power and energy. We have been successful in several other cases in removing growths from various parts of the larynx, which have been placed upon record elsewhere. Perhaps the most remarkable of all these was a large, flat, cystic polypus springing from the right ventricle of the larynx, hanging downwards between the lips of the glottis, giving rise to aphonia for many years, in a woman aged thirty-eight. Latterly suffocation had been imminent, and the dyspnoea was so great that tracheotomy would soon have been requued. When the nature of the complaint was made out with the laryngoscope, the centre of the tumour was fortunately caught in the loop of wire of the laryngeal e'craseur, and forcibly torn from its attachment to the ventricle. A few drops ot blood slowly exuded, and the patient spoke imme- diately after in a hoarse but low-toned voice. In many cases of apparently long-standing chronic disease of the larynx, the symptoms will be found to depend upon the presence of one or more growths in the larynx, as shown in the laryngeal mirror, and it then becomes necessary to remove thera, for there is the liability to their increase in size or degeneration into malignancy. It may be as well to mention here that, in our attempts at removal, it is preferable to do so if practicable at the one operation, in preference to taking away portions at various times, because the risk is strong in the latter case of degeneration into epithelioma. The laryngoscope makes known the presence of ulcers in various parts of the larynx and trachea; loss of substance of the true vocal cords giving rise to aphonia; necrosis of the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages; and occasionally destruction of the free portion of the epiglottis. Of the last we have seen seven well-marked examples m the living and the London museums contain twenty- one specimens wherein the whole or greater part of this cartilage was destroyed. In many exam- ples of throat disease, the symptoms are found to depend upon a pendent position of the epiglottis, which not only prevents a good view of the interior of the larynx, but interferes with the function of respiration. This pendent position ot the epiglottis, we have found to be present in eleven per cent, of mankind, most probably con- genital in many persons, for we have seen it in the mother and her young child. This percentage was deduced from an examination of some eignt hundred healthy persons of all ages and both sexes. No doubt it aggravates any throat oi laryngeal affection where it may supervene, al- though it occurs idiopathically in many instances. In cases of functional aphonia, the vocal cords and other parts of the larynx are seen to be healthy, the symptoms depending upon loss ot or impaired nervous power. Whereas in organic aphonia, again, the lesions observed are intlam- matinn ol the vocal cords, whether acute or chronic, induration and thickening of their struc- ture, supra-glottic oedema, or more rarely the sub- glottic form, ulceration of the vocal cords, with sometimes considerable loss of substance, and the presence of growths and tumours as already described. The same conditions are found to be the cause of hoarseness, which is likewise due to a swelling of the false cords, and occasionally to a varicose condition of the veins of the larynx. The voice likewise becomes altered, although not lost, under certain circumstances, and the causes are made out with the laryngoscope. A young man, aged twenty-one, came under our notice, with what we have called diplophonia, which was the result of a wound of the left vocal cord, with a penknife which had penetrated the neck. The cicatrix of the wound was clearly discernible m the laryngeal mirror, and as there was imperfect approximation of the vocal cords, his voice became double, being in one part of his speech a deep bass and the other tenor. Deformities of the larynx are also recognised with the laryngoscope, such as malformations of the epiglottis or deficiency of the cartilage; absence ot one of the aryteno-epiglotti- dean folds, or of both vocal cords, instances of all of which have come under our observation. The laryngoscope is of great assistance in the detection and diagnosis of the presence of foreign bodies in the pharynx and larynx, and materially aids in their extraction. We have had three cases under our notice where pins were" lodged in the pharynx and one in the larynx. In the latter the patient was a gentleman aged sixty-four, who drank a glass of water which contained a pm, and. in endeavouring to eject it from the mouth, it slipped into the larynx and produced the most alarming symptoms of suffocation, with attacks of spasm similar to those in acute laryngitis. He was seen two hours afterwards, and with some difficulty an examination was made with the laryngoscope, when the pin was seen traversing the larynx from before backwards, one end, the head, occupying the trenchant angle of the thyroid cartilage, and the other transfixing the left aryte- noid cartilage. The larynx was intensely con- gested, of a bright scarlet redness, and cedema was about commencing. The true vocal co^ds were purple, the right only acting spasmodically, whilst the left was loose and flaccid. With one assistant to hold out the tongue, and another the head, the laryngeal mirror was introduced and wi h a pair of reliable forceps, the pin was fortunately seized the first time the instrument was introduced, and extracted. All the symptoms immediately sub- i sided We were enabled on another occasion to • discern a piece of walnut sheU impacted below the i glottis of a boy of thirteen, in whom tracheotomy , had been performed by Mr. Paget; it was not :. then removed, but was subsequently expe led by coughing. We are not aware of any other in-• Xnces besides the two mentioned -he-- bodies were observed in the larynx with the aid i of the laryngoscope. . nf We were enabled to determine, m a case ot.j acute inflammation of t^e epiglottis that the , disease did not involve the interior of the Iw : being confined solely to the ^'^"'^S^/^Xl' proper folds. For determining the true nature.^ Ke ksion; in chronic larjnigitis w^iether s^^^^ or otherwise, follicular disease of ^^e throat and^ , larynx, affections of the trachea, certain stages ot,