512 should be administered, followed by an injection. The sutures should not be removed till after the bowels have been emptied. An operation of this kind, if the part is in a sound condition on both sides, will succeed in the majority of cases, and a perfect cure will be the result. It is useless, how- ever, to attempt it under other circumstances. When there is ulceration in the rectum from stric- ture, and still more of course when there is cancer of either rectum or vagina, there is little or no chance of union following a plastic operation. The probability of success is greater when the operation is situated somewhat high up in the recto-vaginal septum than when it is low down near the sphincter. In the latter case the action of the muscle interferes greatly with the continued apposition of the edges, and is very likely to prevent union taking place. So nuich is this the case, that, according to the writer's experience, and in order to avoid disappointment, it is better at once to lay open the fistula com- pletely by cutting through the perineum and sphincter muscle, and afterwards to bring the parts together by the operation suited for laceration of the perinajum. (See Rupture of the PERiNiEUM.)] James R. Lane. [RECTO-VESICAL AND RECTO-URE- THRAL FISTULA.—These can obviously only occur in the male subject. Both are rare, the former especially so. A recto-vesical communi- cation is, however, a possible result of ulceration or abscess accompanying stricture of the rectum, or of malignant disease in either organ. In such cases any effectual surgical treatment is out of the question. The urine passes into the rectum, where it is retained by the sphincter, and where its pres- sure produces considerable irritation. The faeces also pass into the bladder, causing still greater dis- tress. A recto-urethral fistula may be the result of abscess in the prostate, breaking into the rectum. Sir H. Thompson met with such a case, in which the urine passed by the anus for some weeks. After trying various means, the use of the catheter, &c., he fotmd that when the patient lay flat on his face during micturition nearl}' all the urine passed by the urethra. This plan was therefore adopted for three months, and by the end of that time the fistula was soundly healed. (See Holmes' Si/st. of Surg. vol. iv. p. 414.) A small communication be- tween the urethra may perhaps be closed by stimu lating its edges with nitrate of silver, and should that fail, by the application of the actual cautery. When the opening is larger its edges must be de- nuded and brought together with silver-wire sutures. The part can be reached without any great difficulty by using the duckbill speculum in the rectum. The method pursued should be the same as in vesico-vaginal fistula. A case of fistula which followed the operation of recto-vesical lithotonij', which was sticcessfully closed in this way by the writer, has been mentioned in article Lithotomv, p. 245. See also Lancet, Feb. 6, 1G64. Other cases of congeniial communications between the rectum and the bladder or urethra have been mentioned in article Anus, vol. i. p. 2G5.] James H. Lane. RECTUM, DISEASES OF.—Many cases, in which this bowel is more or less concerned, are treated of in other parts of this Dictionary, and therefure it will only be necessary for me here to re- fci'to them, and then notice some diseases of the same bowel, which are not considered in other articles. RECTUM, DISEASES OF. In the article Anu.s will be found an account of abscess, fistula in ano, anal fissure, imperforate anus, and artificial anus. Under the head of Iii- Ics/iiial Conerelioiis, I have noticed the dangerous obstruction of the rectum by masses of indurated matter. In the article Lithotomy, the mode of cutting through the rectum into the bladdi-r, for the purpose of extracting a calculus from the latter organ is explained ; and if the reader refer to Bl,.-iDDER, he will there find a description of the method of tapping it from the rectum. The dis- eases of the rectum remaini}ig to be described are luemorrhoids or piles, prolapsus, polypus, ulcer, stricture, and cancer of the rectum. Piles—Haemorrhoids.—From atfia, blood, and ^ett', to flow. The lower end of the rectum is frequently the seat of tumors, which in many persons bleed from time to time, and hence are called hemorrhoids, or, in common language, piles. Such as had not this hcemorrhagic character, were termed by the old surgeons Llind piles ; while those which hied were named open, More important practical distinctions are those of external and internal piles. With respect to the nature of these swellings various opinions have been entertained. Some writers have expressed their belief, that the blood discharged from them comes neither from arteries nor veins, but from the intermediate capillary ves- sels. (Monteyre.) Laennec and Abernethy espoused the doctrine, tliat piles are the result of the form- ation of new vesse!s. Lastly, Stalil, Alberti, Ve- salius, Morgagni, J. L. Petit, and Pinel, regard them as dilated veins, true r«)7'ces. and such was the opinion of Dupuytren. (See Lego7i's Orales de Clinique Chir. t. i. p. 340.) The latter is the view entertained by Sir-Ben- jamin Brodie:—" A patient consults you, com- plaining of swelling, pain, and tenderness in the neighbourhood of the anus. You examine the [lart, and find on its verge a number of tumors, about the size of the end of the thumb, or finger, with broad bases, not very distinct from, but run- ning one into the other, covered by the common integuments, and of a more or less purple appear- ance. If you cut into one of these tumors, there is immediately a flow of venous blood, followed by a small quantity of arterial blood; such as might arise from a cut anywhere else. On making a section of the tumor, it presents to the eye the ap- pearance of dilated and tortuous veins. In fact, you cannot doubt, that they are dilated veins ; they are exactly like varicose veins of the leg. The tumors, which I have described, are situated below the sphincter innsde, and we call them cr- iernal piles. " Another patient consults you, complaining also of a swelling at the anus, accompanied by pain and tenderness. You examine the part, and find a number of tumors of a diiferent kind. These, too, have broad bases, and run one into the other, forming a circle, which pr.'jects below the anus. They are covered, not by the common integmuent, but by the mucous membrane of the rectum, pro- truded from above the sphincter muscle. On making a section of one of these tumors, there innnediately flows venous blood, and artena blood may flow a'fterwards. On looking at the divided surface, it is evident that tlie tumor was composed of a large tortuous vein. It is the accidental en- largement of these tumors which causes them to