68 INFLAMMATION. not a transudntion from the liquor sanguinis, an overflowing plasma, but a creation of the inflamed part itself. In inflammations (catarrhs) of mucous membranes, the mucus is a product of the epi- thelial cells of the inflamed surface; and there are only special regions of mucous membrane where fibrinous flakes are conmionly found in inflamma- tion. Just so, fibrinous exudation is not a property common to all inflamed tissues, but to a limited number; the serous membranes especially; and certain mucous membranes (as the trachea) if ihe irritation be violent. If we turn to the subject of inflammatory blood, we find Ilokitansky dilating on the diseased con- dition or erases (or dyscrasies) of that fluid. He teaches the "primitive anomaly of blastemata, that the blood may become diseased, and that dif- ferent local diseases are expressions and conse- quences of the primary blood disorders (of course it is also taught that local diseases may be the starting-point of a general dyscrasy). Of these "erases," which include hyperinosis, hypinosis, the drunkard's dyscrasy, scurvy, anajmia, and the like the " fibrine erases" are described first, as being those in which an increase 'in the quantity, vessels. The Vienna school attempted a grand change, endeavouring to establish exudation as the essence of inflammation, and thereby putting the products in the place of the symptoms. This class of opinions, then, may be said to have put forward the swelling as the prominent feature of inflammation. The fourth symptom, pain, has been made the principal only in the more specula- tive views (Anschauiing) of the neuro-pathologists. The anatomical theory of the Vienna school, would doubtless be the most correct, if it could be demonstrated that an exudation accompanies every inflammation, that tiie swelling consists of the exudaiion, and that the exudation ought to be regarded as constant and typical, and the fibrinous contents of the swelling as the criterion of its inflammatory nature. " I liave already shown how the notion of exu- dation must be contracted, and how really the active relations of the tissue-elements themselves enter into the question, when subsUmces make their appearance which we must at all events treat as having come out from the vessels and been deposited in the parts. A great deal is, as we saw, not so much an exudation as, if I may so '^Z:^^:^^^^ ^^'^ -^ess myself, an edact from the vessels in con and some alteia.ion m the qua^^^^^^^ the activity of the t.ssue-elemenl; exist in the blood. These erases are distinguished by the proneness of the fibrine to coagulate withm the vessels, and to be exuded locally in inflamma- tions They are divided into pare Jihnnotis, and crmcpous, in the latter of which there is greater tendency to softening and suppuration 11 is tauMit that '* ordinary pneumonia (with fibrinous product) is the localisation of a pre-existent crasis. Considering that fibrine is in a higher state of oxidation than common lymph, it is clear, accord- ing to Rokitansky, that it must be developed liefore the inflammation, for it is paradoxical that it should be developed during a disease which dis- ables large portions of the lung. Virchow, on the other hand, teaches that there is no dyscrasia, or permanent disordered condition of the blood, which is not dependent upon some local disease. That the " inflammatory crust is a consequence, not a cause, of local inflammation. His opinions are already quoted {supra,-p. 11). H vperinosis is al way s accompanied with some degree of"leuca3raia, or excess of white corpuscles in the blood. Both are frequent during pregnancy, and are no evidence of increase of the " powers of ife, but of the great development of the inguinal and lumbar lymphatic glands. Both conditwns may be found in puerperal fever, but they constitute no sicn of either inflammation or pysemia. ^ It will be of interest if we subjoin Virchow s general conception of inflammation in his own words. (Op. cit. Lect. xvii.) . To begin with, we must sweep away everything implying entity (ontologiscli) from the notion of inflammation. (See supra, p. 8.) " T'he old physicians, as represented b> balui, made heat the chief of the four cardinal symptoms of inflammation (the others being redness, s vc 1 i,ur and pain). Afterwards heat was placed ;e n thrbaciground, and redness was brought forward. The opinions of Boeilwave, who de ived inflammation from an obstruction of the blood- vessels and a stagnation of blood '"separable f i such a condition, may bo said to belong to this class: inflammation being connected by tlicse niechaniail theories with the condition ot the sequence of the activity of the tissue-elements themselves. " The point from which, as I think, we must set out, in treating of inflammation, the point in which I judge the propositions of Broussais and Andral to be justified, is the notion of irrilalion. ^^ e cannot imagine any inflammation without an irn- tation : and the question next arises, in what way are we to picture to ourselves this irritation ? 1 lie form of irritation may be traced in three different directions, according as a functional, nutritive, or formative irritation has taken place. Now there can be no doubt at all that in inflammation we have not really to do with functional irritations ; simply on the ground that (as all newer schools at least are agreed) to the four characteristic sym- ptoms mentioned above, a fifth, namely damaged functions (functio la;sa), must be added. _ " The function beinc disturbed in inflammation, this presupposes that'the irritation must be of such a kind as necessarily to imply certain changes in the composition of the part which have damaged function as their consequence. Nobody would expect a muscle, gland-cell, or gangl.on-cell to discharge their respective functions properly when inflamed. The conclusion to be drawn from our commonest experience is, that changes have occurred in the composition of the cellular eleinents which alter their natural functional power. Sucli changes, when they follow stimuli which do not . immediately destroy the tissues, must be the con- senuence of either nutritive or formative stimuli.. This conclusion is confirmed by what occurs m. inflammation, for now-a-days we find the view ■ pretty generally spread, that in inflammation we; have, in the main, to deal with a change ... the act 1 of nutrition; nutrition being regarded, indeed, asi embracing the formative and nutritive processes « If therefore we speak of an inflammatory stl-. mulus (E.it/Aindungsrei.) (irritament), we cannot properly mean anythin, but that, in consequence, of some cause or other exter.ial to the P^^t . icK has fi.lle.i into a state of irrit.t.o.i {^vdche Rei.n,i:n;eratli), and acting o.i .t e>ther dir c ly from without or through the medium of the blood,.