1019 WOUNDS. way througli tlie cutis, by ulceration, and raises up the cuticle, lii this case, as soon as the cuticle lias been opened, a director should be introduced into the iipcitiire in the skin, and the latter open- iiij; be enlarged with a bistoury. In the third species of whitlow, Kichter en- joins ns never to defer making an opening longer than the third day. If we wait till suppuration happens, we shall wait till the tendons are de- stioyod, aiul tlie use of the finger is lost. In the case ujider consideration, the matter is always of bad quality, and in small quantity. A fluctuation iu the finger can seldom be felt. However, in a few instances the matter is perceptible at the ex- tremity of the finger, or about the finger-joints : but more often, in the palm of the hand, or near the wrists. In these circumstances, the tendons are in general already destroyed, and a stiffness of the finger and hand is to be apprehended. When the complaint is the consequence of a puncture, the best plan is at once to enlarge the wound. It is not enough, however, to cut through the skin ; the tendinous theca itself must be laid open. When a collection of matter forms towards the wrist, attended with violent pain in that situation, an opening must also be made there. If an open- ing should have already been made in the hand, a probe may be introduced into the wound, and another aperture made in an eligible situation by cutting on the end of the instrument. In the same way, an opening is to be made in any part of the forearm, where great pain or the symptoms of suppuration may indicate its propriety. In the fourth kind of whitlow, early incisions, made down to the bone, are the most certain means of obviating the danger. When such incisions are not made soon enough, suppuration takes place, and the bone perishes. The cut is to be made in the place where the pain is most severe. When the first phalanx is affected, the incision may be made in front of the finger ; but when the second or third is the seat of the complaint, the opening should be made on one side. However, in order that the opening may be useful, it is absolutely necessary to make it down to the bone. When the incision is deferred too long, a small quantity of unhealthy matter is usually detected, and the bone is found in the state of necrosis. As an exfoliation can hardly be ex- pected in this situation, it is best to remove at once the diseased piece of bone. When the last pha- lanx alone is affected, the finger retains its form, •with the exception of its end being a little shorter and Hatter. When the disease, however, is situated in the third plinlanx, Richter thinks it better to amputate the finger than remove the diseased bone, as the finger, if left, would always remain stilFand unserviceable. (See Anfangsgr. der Wundarzney- kunsl, vol. vii.) Dr. J. B. Whitridge, of Charleston, South Carolina, in cases of whitlow, when the hone has become carious, has frequently preserved the part by the timely removal of the diseased bone. Persons much in the habit of using tlie pen, and others whose livelihood depends on their retaining the use of the thumb and forefinger, are the sub- jects to whom this operation is particularly ad- vantageous. Dr. W. has several times removed the bone of tlie first phalanx, and twice that of the second, and still preserved sufficient flexibility of the part to enable the patie?it to use it. (See Reese, in American Ed, of this Diclionary.) Such practice is common in England, tliough, perhaps, oftener deviated from than it ought to be. " Exfoliation of the distal phalanx, which frequently occurs, does not require amputation, as the finger, though some- what shortened by it, is not materially impaired, either in appearance or utility." {&piie''s Prin- ciples, p. 403, ed. 2.) With regard to the treatment of the species of whitlow named by Mr. Wardrop onychia maligna, all local applications have in many instances proved quite ineffectual, and the part been amputated. The only local treatment which Mr. Wardrop has ever seen relieve this complaint has been the evul- sion of the nail, and afterwards the occasional application of escharotics to the ulcerated surface. I have myself seen a similar plan occasionally suc- ceed ; and the applications which appeared to answer best, were arsenical lotions, Plunket's caustic, or a very strong solution of nitrate of silver. Nothing, however, will avail till the nail is removed ; and its total separation sometimes takes up a good deal of time, unless the patient submit to the great pain of having it cut away. In four cases of the onychia maligna, Mr. AVardrop tried with success the exhibition of mer- cury. It was given in small doses at first, and afterwards increased, so as to affect the gums in about twelve or fourteen days. When the system was in this state, the sores in general soon assumed a healing appearance, and the bulbous swelling gradually disappeared. (See Med. Chir. Trans. vol. V. p. 138.) I have known of similar cases, which were traced to inoculation of the finger with venereal matter. WOUNDS.—[A wound is a solution of con- tinuity in the soft parts, produced suddenly, by direct external violence. Any agent capable of exercising a greater de- gree of force than the resistance opposed to it by the tissues, may occasion a wound. As such agents are very numerous and diverse in nature, it follows that wounds will vary much in shape, depth, extent, number, &c. In medico- legal investigations, it is especially necessary to pay careful attention to the minute features of wounds. The importance of this subject, and the necessity of carefully studying it, can hardly be exaggerated, lieister well expresses this when he says " we are persuaded by two reasons to begin these institu- tions of surgery Avith an inquiry into the nature of wounds; for wounds are not only more common than any other external injuries, but the nature of them also is more easily explained in our schools of surgery ; and, indeed, when we are thoroughly acquainted with the nature of a wound, we shall with much greater ease and clearness comprehend all the other doctrines of surgery.'' The division of wounds which meets with mo- dern acceptance is into five classes—viz., incised, punctured, contused, lacerated, and poisoned. Such a distinction is convenient for description and com- parison, but frequently in practice the features characteristic of several of these species are com- bined. An incised wound is that which results from the action of sharp-edged weapons. It ia a clean ctit, without tearing or bruising. The lips of such ii wound, being little injured, unite readily. In length, depth, shape, &c., incised wounds of