TALIPES. same ns that of talipes cquinus. It is a non-con- genital affection—cases of slight varus must not be confoiiiided with it—and is produced liy the same causes which gave rise to talipes equinus. The grt-at majority of cases met with in practice will, therefore, be found to depend either upon spas- modic orpiralytic affections, and the muscles will be found in the same conditious as described in tali- pes eiioiiuis. Tnis defoi'inity most frequently affects the nuht foot only; secondly, the left foot only; and thirdly, both feet. The tn-atiiieiit is the same as that required for talipes ecpiinus, but in some cases the anterior tibial, or the posterior tiliial tendon, or both, may require division; and in the mechanical treatment it is ihe more necessary to make use of the Scarpa's shoe with a dout)le cog-wheel, by wliich the late- ral inclination of the foot may be controlled. The deformity described as non-oongenital VARUS so closely resembles that just described, with respi'ct to its general pathology and principles of treatment—the paralysis being usually more complete, and the inversion of the foot more marked—that no special description of this de- formity need be given. TALIPES EftUINO-VALGUS. This deformitv is characterised by a certain amount of eversion of the anterior portion ot the foot coexist- ing with contraction of th^ tendo-Achillis and ele- vatiim of the heel. It is, therefore, a compound variety between the simple form of talipes equiiius and talipes valijus, and is generally regarded as the opposite condition to equino-varus; but this diffen nce exists, viz., that whilst in the latter de- formity, elevation of the heel is the predominant condition—it is, in fact, but a slight modification of talipes equinu.'.—in talipes equino-valgus the elevation of the heel is coniparatively very slight, and eveision of the anterior portion of the foot is the predominant condition—it is, in fact, but a slialit modification of talipes valgus; and a cer- tain anmniit of contraction of the tendo-Achillis is so constantly present in all the more severe forms of talipes valgus, whether of congenital or non- connenital origin, that the description of equino- valgus may be considered as included in that of talipes valgus, the pathology and treatment being essentially the same in both forma of distortion, TALIPES VARUS. Talipes varus occurs both as a congenital and non-congenital distortion, and the anatomical con- diticms, as well as the general pathology of this deformity, vary in so many respects, according to its coniienital or non-congenital origin, that it is necessary to describe these varieties separately. The description of non-congenital varus has, how- ever, essentially been included in that of talipes equino-varus, with which it is intimately allied. CONGENITAL TALIPES VARUS. This is by far the most frequent form of con genital distortion of the foot, and that to which the term club-fool is ordinarily applied. External Characters. — The external characters of this deformity vary in several im- portant respects, according to the age of the patient, whether infant or adult, and the extent to which the toot has been used in sustaining the weight of the body in walking. They also vary 675 according to the degree or original severity of the deformity, so that for the purpose of description a well-marked and moderately severe form of tlie infantile and of the adult distortion should be taken. external characters of CONGENITAL VARUS IN THE INFANT. 1st. Tlie anterior portion of the foot is turned inwards, and in this direction forms a riiiht-angle with the leg. In a very severe case the foot may be drawn upwards, so that its inner border may be parallel to, and even in omtact with, the inner side of the leg. 2iid. The sole of the foot looks directly back- wards, and the dorsum directly forwards. iJrd. T/ie inner edge of the foot looks directly upwards, and the outer edge directly downwards. 4tli. The foot is necensarily shortened, becai se its inverted position depends upon the anterior two-thirds being turned inwards; the angle of flexion corresponding to the transverse tarsal joint in I'ront of the astragalus and os calcis, so that the foot is bent laterally upon itself, and not turned inwards (mm the ankle-joint. 5th. The heel appears to be very small, as if imper'ectly developed, and misshapen; in fat chil- dren the tuberosity of the os calcis can scarcely be felt, owing to the nearly vertical position assumed by this bone. 6th. Tlie internal malleolus is less prominent than natural, and in severe cases its ontl.ne cannot be traced ; this depends upmi the navicular bone being drawn underneath, and in contact with, the inner malleolus, by the posterior tibial muscle; and not upon any imperfect development of tlie inner malleolus, which lias been supposed to exist, and even assigned as a cause of the inversion of the foot. The external malleolus in a thin child appears to be more prominent than natural, in consequence of the inversion and obliquity of the foot—and also it appears to be situated farther backwards towards the heel; but this de^iends upon the lateral obli- quity of the OS calcis, the tuberosity of which in- clines towards the fibula, and is sometimes nearly m contact with it. Although the external characters above de- scribed bear a general relation to the severitv of the case, yet, for practical purposes, in reference to the prognosis and result of treatment, we judo-e of the severity of a case, not so much by the external form of the foot, as to whether it forms more or less than a liuht-angle with the leg, but by the amount of resistance offered to the restoration of the foot by manipulation to its natural form and position. Tiiis resistance, or rigidity (as we gene- rally express it), arises from contraction, and adapted shortening of both muscles and ligaments conditions which are found to exist in every degree of .severity at the period of birth, but which do not certainly bear a definite rehitimi to the external deviations in form. Some apparently severe cases in the infant arc very flexible, whilst others, pre- senting the same external appearance, are ex- tremely rigid and unyielding; thi.s rigidity, how- ever, after birth increases with the advance of age, and in the adult bears a pretty constant re- lation, in congenital cases, to the external lorm of the foot. External Characters superadded, or acquired in Iho After the congenital club-foot has been X X 2