LITHOTOMY. 201 and when it is also smooth, polished, and light, the patient may have it a long while, without ex- periencing any afflicting symptoms. He may even live to an advanced age, if not without some degree of suffering, at all events with such pain as is very supportable. Daily experience proves that persons may live a considerable time with one, two, or even three stones in the bladder, and during the whole of their lives have not the least sus- picion of the existence of these foreign bodies. At first, the general health is not disturbed, but ill time it begins to suffer, and the nrine be- coming alkaline, the triple phosphate is deposited on the original stone. The patient's sufferings are now greatly increased, in consequence of the more stimulating quality of the urine, and the morbid sensibility of the nervous system always accompanying the secretion of such urine. As the disease advances, the irritation of the calculus excites inflammation of the mucous coat of the bladder, and hence, still greater pain, almost con- stant desire to make water; the offensive, putrid, and ammoniacal smell of tlae urine, and a thick mucous sediment in it, streaked with blood. (See Sir B. Brodie on Dis. of the Urinary Ornans, p. 228.) When stone proves fatal, the usual cause of death is disease of the kidney or inflammation of the mucous membrane of the bladder. A moderate degree of chronic inflammation of it may continue for a long time, and, if the stone be extracted, the patient recovers. But if it become aggravated so as to assume an acute form, the patient's situation becomes desperate. The inflammation may ex- tend up the ureters to the kidneys. Even the glandular structure of the kidneys becomes affected, and rendered more vascular and softer than natural. Sometimes abscesses form in the kidneys, or a collection of muco-piu:ulent fluid takes place in the pelvis and in the infundibula. Inflammation sometimes extends to the loose cel- lular tissue around the bladder, and putrid gan- grenous abscesses are produced in it. In one case, where the patient died very soon after lithotom}-, a very large pelvic abscess was found to communicate with the bladder. {Bro'lic, Op. cit. pp. 231—234.)J A question may here suggest itself: Ought lithotomy to be practised where calculi are under a certain size? Certainly not; because they fre- quently admit of being extracted through the urethra, or discharged with the urine, without any operation at all, even from the male subject; and how much more likely this is to happen in females, must be plain to everybody who recollects the direct course, the shortness, ample size, and dilata- bility of the meatus urinarius. On this subject, various facts, and, in particular, the dilator used by Sir A. Cooper, will be adverted to in consider- ing lithotomy in women. Sometimes, also, when a calculus is too large to pass completely through the male \irethra, it lodges in this passage, where it may be more safely cut upon and removed, than from the bladder; and in a very few rare examples It has been discharged by an ulcerative process. Thus Dr. R. A. Langenbeck has published a case, in which a stone made its way out by ulcera- tion, and was discharged immediately behind the testes (see J. C. Langenbeck's Bill. /«,• die Odtt., 1809); and O. Coopmans has recorded Chir an rimost incredible case, in which a calculu weighing five ounces one drachm and a half, was discharged on the left side of the urethra of an elderly man, a little below the glans penis. In fact, without some further explanation, this case would be pronounced impossible; but, it should be recollected, that after a small calculus has n.ade its way out of the urethra by ulceration, if the urine have still access to it, it will continue to increase in size in its new situation; and this is what happened in the present example; for the extraneous body, when first felt externally, was not larger than a pea. The calculus is now pre- served in Camper's Museum, {Neurologia, 8vo. Franequerae, 1795.) Sir Benjamin Brodie refers to a preparation at St. George's Hospital, of a bladder ulcerated at its fundus. There were several calculi, and one of them was fixed in the ulcerated opening, half in and half out of the bladder. He also records a case, in which the mucous membrane of the bladder was found extensively ulcerated in a man, who had died after lithotomy, and the ulcer communi- cated with the ulcerated cavity in the perineum, in which the stone was lying at the time of the operation. {On Dis. of the Urinary Orqans, p. 232, ed. 2.) In many cases small calculi may be voided by dilating the male urethra with elastic gum cathe- ters of very large diameter, and then desiring the patient to expel his urine with considerable force, a plan which Baron Larrey has repeatedly found to answer. The idea of withdrawing calculi from the bladder through the urethra, by suction and dilatation of the passage, seems to have been en- tertained by several practitioners of former days, especially Alpinus, Muys, Verduc, Mayerne, and Le Dran. (See Dr. Kerrison's Paper in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 315.) Dcsault even tried experiments with a kind of forceps, which ad- mitted of being protruded, and of opening and shutting at the extremity of a canula, which was introduced into the bladder; but no instance of success with it on the human subject is recorded. (See Joiirn. de Chir. t. ii. p. 375. Paris, 1791.) The honour of bringing the plan to perfection was reserved for Sir Astley Cooper. "The instru- ment," says he, " which I first had made for the purposes of removing these stones from Mr. BuUer, were merely common forceps, made of the size of a sound, and similarly curved; but Mr. Weiss, surgeons' instrument maker, in the Strand, showed me a pair of bullet forceps, which he' thought would, with a little alteration, better answer the purpose I had in view. He removed two of the blades of these forceps (for there were four), and gave them the form of the forceps which I had constructed: the blades of this in- strument could be opened whilst in the bladder by means of a stilet, so as to grasp and confine the stone; and they appeared so well constructed for the purpose as to induce lue to make trial of them, on November 23, lf)20, and the manner in which they were used was as follows : Mr. Buller was placed across the bed with his feet resting on the floor; a silver catheter was then introduced, and the bladder emptied of urine. I then passed the forceps into the bladder and was so fortunate in my first operation as to' extract eight calculi. The instrument gave but little pain on its introduction, but when opened to its greatest extent, and the stones admitted be-