904 VARIX. of blood through them : the pins should he removed after about four da)'8, by which time obliteration of the veins will have been effected by adhesion of their internal coats : if the varicocele be very large more than one pin will be required. Mr. Henry Lee has recommended compression of the veins by two pins introduced about one and a-half inch from each other, and subcutaneous division of the vessels between them ; but this plan does not seem to offer any advantages, whilst it is attended with more risk than the other. As above stated, an operation is very rarely needed in this affection, and should never be imdertaken until all other means have failed. In the vast majority of cases the palliative measures at our disposal are quite sufficient to relieve the inconveniences occasione.d by a varicocele ; the disease, moreover, has a tendency to diminish with age : and, except in extreme cases, does not pre- vent the procreative function. On the other hand, very grave and even fatal consequences have at times followed the several operations employed : atrophy of the testicle is not an uncommon result ; a gradual recurrence of the affection is not rare, unless a suspensory bandage be permanently worn ; whilst phlebitis, pyseraia, and the other dangers which attend operations upon veins are incurred, and anxiety therefore must always be felt as to the issue of this otherwise very simple proceed- ing-] G. G. Gascoyen. J. A. Murray, de Cirsocele, Upsal, 1784. Pott, On Hydrocele, &c. Richter, in Nov. Conomen. Goett. No iv. anrt in Obs. Chir fasc. ii. p. 22. Gooch, Chir. Works. Most, Diss, de Cirsocele, HiHae, 1796. Med. Gaz., April, 1838. Sir A. Cooper, Obs. on the Struc- ture and Diseases of the Testis, 1830. Landouzii. de Varicocele, Paris, 1838. {Vidal (de Cassis), Traits de Path, externe, Paris. 1846. Curling, On the Diseases of the Testis, 2nd edition, 1855.] V/.mX.—[Synonymes : Ancients, Varix and Cirsus. i^'rew/j. Varices and Phlebectasie. German, Blutaderknoten ; Krampfadern. Italian, Varice. Defiuilion.—A compressilile tumor formed in the course of a vein, and consisting of the permanent dilatation of part of its canal sized veins that this part of the subject has been successfully studied. Both the coats of the ves- sels and the textures around them have been examined. There are some anatomical and phvsiological conditi.ms peculiar to the veins which render tliem liable to those influences which cause the varicose condition. These may be shortly stated to be the small amount of contractile tissue, the sparing development of elastic elements, and the compa- ratively great preponderance of the fine connecting ' tissue of filamentous fibres. Readiness to collapse and incapacity to contract are natural properties of the veins. An increase of tissue in and about the coats of the veins, by which they remain open and patent when cut across, is one of the morbid states associated with the condition of varix and which it is necessary to describe. The structure of the medium s'zed veins, as that of the vena saphena magna, is best observed by boiling its tissue in diluted acetic acid (one to six) and examining it by sections with the aid of needles. We can then verify the description given by Kdlliker. The textur;il elements may be thus arranged :—(1) common undulathig binding tissue, with (2) fine isolated elastic nucleated fibres intermixed, and surrounding (3) a large amount of smooth muscle tissue, composed of long and broad fusiform elements. Kolliker also describes smooth muscle cells in the innermost coat of the saphena. The laminated arrangement of the tisstres can readily be detected in successful sec- tions. It is chiefly in the properties of the twig, the elastic and the smooth muscle tissue, that those alterations are to be observed which are associated with the condition of varix in the first instance, or in some cases, as the process of development from one morbid state to another is not clearly made out. The following three conditions may, however, lie stated:—(1) changes in the textural elements of the veins ; (2) the exudation of new formations amongst the textural elements of the vein ; (3) changes in the tissues immediately surrounding the vein. The secondary effects which immediately Description.—Varices look for the most part I result from these changes are :—(l) atrophy ol the ' vein substance ; (2) hypertrophy from deposition of new matter ; (3) the formation of cysts (hce- morrhoids?); (4) wasting or degeneration of neighbouring textures, and the formation of ulcers commonly termed " varicose." The obvious physical conditions of varix may be shortly stated to be—(I) turgescence from blood ; (2) diffuseness of distribution ; (3) con- volutions and dilatations. Tiiese three morbid states, viz. the altered histological elements, the secondary effects, and the obvious physical condi- tions, act and react upon each other so that it is difKcult, if not impossible, to trace the pathological changes in the order of their succession; but some observations remain to be made regarding the cir- cumstances which are observed to be associated with, or which bring about some of the plicnomena described above. The atrophy of the walls ot a vein is seen associated with dilatation of its calibre, and degeneration of the histological elements ol the middle coat. The contractile cells become granular, and this combined with pressure against the sides of the vessel, caused by the "'"eased volume of blood, gives rise to atrophy and ""<^" tion. Associated with this state the atrophj aa- like straight or tortuous cords of a blue colour, more or less sacculated and of greater or less size, soft, slightly elastic, firmer at some points than at others ; occupying a greater or less extent of a limb ; capable of being emptied by pressure (ex- cept when occupied by coagula), and refilling rapidly when the pressure is removed, and_ not generally adherent to the overiying skin. When the capillary vessels are alone affected they will appear as minute red or blue lines permeating the surface, while when the larger vessels are much implicated, several dilatations may coalesce so as to form large bosses resembling a mass of entwined leeches. Varix may affect the capillary or the larger veins alone, or may simultaneously impli- cate both. Varicose veins are rendered more prominent by heat and the long continuance in the erect pos- ture. In shape they may be round, oval, or irregular, and the greatest amount of dilatation occurs at the seat of tlie valves. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy—The. writer is indebted to Professor Aitken for the fol- lowing exposition of the morbid anatomy of varices It is chiefly in the small and medium