SCROFULA. tunics of which were themselves sound. (JudraL Jiiul. Pathol, t. i. p. 419, and t. ii. p. 446 ) Uiaiiules ot tubt-rculous mutter, sometimes insu- lated, sometimes clustered together, have also been detected within the clots of blood contained in the cells of the spleen." (Jndral, Op. eit. t. ii. p. 431, and CarsweU's lllustratiotis of the Elem. Forms of Disease, Fuse. i. p. 1, 3. Cumin, in Cyclop, of Fract. Med., art. Scrofula.) Professor Cars well leniarks, that the prevailing opinion among pathologists is, that the seat of tu- berculous matter is the cellular tissue of organs- th at it may, however, be formed on secreting' sur- iaces, as in the mucous follicles of the intestines; perhaps, in the air-cells and bronchi ; the surface of the pleura and peritoneum; and likewise in false membranes, or other accidental and new pro- ducts; and in the blood itself. According to the researches of this distinguished pathologist the mucous system is the most frequent seat of tubei- culous matter. " In whatever organ the form- ation of tuberculous matter takes place, the mu- cous system, if constituting a part of that organ, is, in genei-iil, either the e.xclusive seat of this morbid product, or is far more extensively affected with it than any of the other systems, or tissues of the sanie organ. Thus the mucous system of the re- spiratory, digestive, biliary, urinary, and generative organs, is much more frequently the seat of tuber- culous matter, than any other system, or tissue, which enters into the composition of these organs. The coloured plates I. and II. furnish the clearest evidence of the formation of tuberculous matter in the mucous system of all these organs. I have shown it in the lungs, formed on the secreting surface, and collected within the air-cells and bronchi; the intestines, in the isolated and aggre- gated follicles; the liver, in the biliary ducts and their extremities; the kidneys, in the infundibula, pelvis, and ureters ; the uterus, in the cavity of that organ, and Fallopian tubes; and the testicle, in the tubuli seminiferi, epididymis, and vas de- ferens. " The formation and subsequent diffusion of tuberculous matter is also observed on the secret- ing surface of serous membranes, particularly the pleura and peritoneum; and in the numerous mi- nute cavities of the cellular tissue. The accumu- lation in the lacteals and lymphatics, both before and after they unite to form their respective glands, is frequently very considerable.'' (See PI. III. and IV.) In PI. III. Dr. Carswell has a,so given representations of tuberculous matter in the substance of the biain and cerebellum, in acci- dental cellular tissue, and in the blood. (See Illustrations of the Elem. Forms of Disease, Fasc. i.) [Rokitansky describes scrofulous tubercle as an exudate of a fibrinous or albuminous lilastema in the lowest grade of development, which readily solidi- fies. This e.xudate. he says, " is for the most part distinguibhed by the tubercle form ; that is, by Its appearance as scattered or collected nodules, or where more copiously produced, by its deposition m granulations and stellate masses. It is hereby cognisable at the first glance. Still this is open to exceptions; tubercle itself occurs in extensive irregular manses. These are inflammatory pro- ducts endowed with an indwelling tuberculous rh •vnu ail iiiuwcuiiig luoercuuius naracter, although manifesting a total absence of tne external hal.itudes of tubercle. Tubercle has werelore sometimes a local, but, far more fre- quently, a general, import and significance. It is invariably oo closely linked witli dyscrasial pro- cesses, that, for a profi table consideration of tubercle, an incessant retrospect to ibe dyscrasial relations is imperatively demanded." He does not hold with the opinion that the grey miliary tubercle is converted into the crude yellow tubercle of Laennec by progressive changes but considers them as two separate exudations from the first. He thus divides scrofulous tubercle into two distinct kinds under the designations of simple fibrinous or grey tuLercle and fibrino crou- puus or yellow tubercle, each possessing its appro- priate characters of development and decay. Simple fibrinous oryiey miliary tubercle "appears as scattered or stellate conglomerations of granules of about the size of millet seeds. It presents, moreover, smooth pseudo-raembianous exudates, as we often find exemplified upon the pleura of lungs involved in florid phthisis." " Under the micro- scope it reveals the following elementary composi- tion. It consists mainly of a more or less pellucid base (blastema), which forms a sort of binding [ medium for certain form elements. Its components therefore are : I. The said basement mass, for the most part a fibro-glebous, grey, fixed blastema, rendered turgescent and transparent by acetic acid. 2. Certain embryonic form elements, viz.: (a) Elementary granules of various magnitude. [b) Nucleous formations, both black-contoured, lus- trous, spherical, even oblong nuclei; and more delicate, dull, granulated nuclei, under various phases, (c) Nucleated cells; commonly in such bmall numbers as to tempt one to doubt their occurrence altogether. Nuclei and cells are often to a great extent misshapen, disorderly, jagged, angular, bulging, dumb-bell shaped, rudimental, stunted. This tubercle, he maintains, never softens; its metamorphosis is limited to decadence. It becomes transformed with the loss of its mois- ture, with condensation, to a hard nodule, and shrivels into a tough, amorphous, or indistinct fibrous, horn-like mass, in a word-—cornifies. This determines a complete wasting and death of the tubercle, subversive of all furtlier change. Occa- sionally this process is associated with bony depo- sition, the tubercle becoming a partly cornified, partly ossified, nodule." Tlie fibrino croupous or yellow tubercle he de- icribes as appearing from the first "in the shape of roundish nodules, as also, and that very frequently, of irregular gibbous branched masses of considerable diameter, or upon free surfaces as gibbo-siellate layers of various thickness. The nodules in size often equal the grey tubercle granulations, still oftener do they equal hemp-seed or peas. Usuall}^ every variety of size coexists. The substance of this tubercle is, as we maj' here once for all remark, opaque from the very first; now resplendent in vari- ous degrees, yellow, of fibrous or olgrauuliirfracture, firmly elastic orriable, of a hirdaceous, card-like as- pect. The microscopic examination of this tubercle shows, as in the case of the foregoing one, a fixed base and the aforesaid form elements. The former is a fibro-glebous, or else an amorphous opaque blastema. With respect to tiie latter much variety obtains. The number of cells, of nuclei, especially of the dull, granulated nuclei, of the elementary granules, and especially the quantity of the finest point-molecule predominate. The metamorphosis proper to this tubercle is softening, and again ere-