[70] INFLAMMATION. cncliondromntoiis tumours of the bones, fasciaj and connective tissue, and in many cases the iodide does this. When the system is saturated with the iodide, there is lachrymation, frontal headache, coryza, and sometimes very severe irritation of the fauces and larynx. The bromide of potass, the chlorate, the bromide, iodide, and chloride of ammonium, the nitrate of potass, and the liquor potassse. are remedies that rank together ; and the iodide of potass and chloride of ammonium often go well together, especially w ith a bitter tonic. _ It must not be forgotten that large doses of iodide may be most pernicious in some cases of ulceration. d. Cololiiciim is the remedy, par excellence, for tha gout and affections allied therewith. The modus operandi is quite unknown. In large doses it produces bilious vomiting and purging, but in smaller doses it allays the pain of gout, and post- pones or suppresses an attack, " without sensible evacuation." The surgeon in town practice finds it of enormous value in subacute and chronic inflaramHtions of the urinary organs and testicles. It is supposed to suspend that action of the nerves which causes local inflammation to be set up, when the blood is loaded with the material of gout. The zvMte and green hellebore are by some thought to have similar powers. If so they would be most valuable. • • t, • e. Arsenic is well known as a specific in chronic inflammations of the skin, and in chronic diseases subsequent to intermittent fevers. The solution of arsenious acid in hydrochloric acid was largely used fifty years ago by Dr. De Valingen of Bishopsgate Street, for strumous and other atonic diseases. /. Ipecacuanha in full doses is supposed to have special power over acute dysentery, and in smaller ones over inflammation of the pulmonary mucous membrane. . g. Oil of Turpentine was largely brought into use by the eulogies of Dr. Copland. {Diet. art. In- flammation ; also R. Ferguson, op. cii.) He recom- mends it in every form of inflammation ; in the sthenic after depletion, in the asthenic at once. It may be used in draught, or enemata, or as an external application sprinkled upon hot flannel. The first author of this practice seems to have been Dr. Brenan, of Dublin {On Puerperal Fever, 1814), and in puerperal fever, administered inter- nally and externally, it seems to relieve peritoneal and internal inflammation. At any rate it reduces tympanitis, and so gives relief to patients breathing. Hence it is relied upon in many ot the local inflammations and congestions of the last stage of fever, and in atonic pneumonia, bronchitis and uleurisy coming on in the course of erysipelas or pyajmia. In iritis it was particularly recommended by Carinichael,of Dublin, The general indications for its employment are a rheumatic or an adyna- mic state, copious effusion, septic or dittuse inflammation, blood-poisoning, and tympanites ; and it may be given so as to act as a speedy purgative, in the dose of half an ounce, once daily ; or as a sli?hter purgative and diuretic in doses of a drachm twice daily ; ov as a Htimulant and diuretic in doses of ten minims every hour or two. I have it made into pills, each containing five minims, with tragacanth powder. It may in any case be copiously used as an epithcm. W e maj mention, by the way, that John Hunter thought highly it as a st'vptic, in liajmorrliage from the lungs, kidneys, and womb. {Lectures, Palmer's ed. vol. i. p. 483.) h. Special Stimulants.—There are many other drugs which seem to have a predilection fur special organs, and to be eliminated thereby ; and whilst in health they may cause irritation, they may remove chronic inflammation. Thus the action of small doses of turpentine in ha;maturia; of copaiba and cubebs, in inflammation of the raucous membrane of the urinary and pulmonary canals ; of savin, can- tharides, and pennyroyal in certain chronic inflam- mations of the womb ; of pt-pper, in inflammation of the rectum ; of peppermint, anise, and ether, in certain affections of the throat and lungs, is well known. Practitioners, in their anxiety for correct general principles, should not lose sight of the benefit obtainable from specific remedies, whose number we desire to see greatly multiplied. But here we must pause for a moment to warn the student against an egregious error into which he may fall if he lose sight of the real meaning of words, and of the danger of substituting metaphori- cal and abstract expressions for real existences. We have had abundant illustrations of this (p. 56), where we have dealt with personifications of the Vital Force, Nature, Vis Medicatrix, and the like. But the most grievous and most mischievous re- mains—that of Homeopathy—which rests on a principle enounced by .John Hunter, inflated by Hahnemann into the well-known system which he made public in 1796, and adopted even by the rational Trousseau, under the name doctrine of " substitution." It is worth while to devote a few words to the radical investigation of this matter, in order that the practitioner may be fortified against a specious delusion. Homoeopathy, like other systems, stands on two legs. One is the theoretical, ac- cording to which it is inevitably true, because de- duced from infallible a priori premises. The other is the practical, according to which the at- tempt is made to show that effects are produced in accordance with the theory. We leave this latter, because anyone who chooses may satisfy himself whether inert diugs, as flint, blacklead, and chalk, do exert medicinal effect in infinitesimal doses. But we must say a few words on the theory, be- cause it forms a part of the history of the treat- ment of inflammation, and if correctly understood it would cease to fascinate and delude. Hunter, in treating of local remedies to inflamed parts {On Adhesive Infl. § 2, op. cit. vol. iii. p. 385), divides them into two classes, one of which produces a "simple cure," tlie other pro- ducing an " irritation of another kind in the part.''' Of the latter he says:—" The mode of cure by an irritation diiferent from the disease ap- pears to increase the disease ; but by destroying tiie first mode of action, it produces another dis- ease, viz., one according to the mode of irritation of the application, and which more easily admits of a cure than the first. I believe, however, that this takes place most readily in specific diseases, and not so readilv in common inflammation, for a common inflammation would most probably be in- creased by it." lie proceeds to say that some inflammations yield to this treatment, though not all, and gives as instances the cure of inflammation (if the skin by solution of corrosive sublimate, and of inflammation of the eyelids by the citrine ointment.