556 this and tlie skin, a probe can often be introduced for some way all round. If, however, the disease should have advanced further, then there is verv little elasticity in tlie tumor ; it is quite soft, rather flaccid, and fluctuates freely; tlie skin be- comes of a light-purple colour, and small veins may be seen ramifying on its surface. Some time after these appearances, the skin becomes thinner at one particular part, and here it is also generally rendered of a darker cnlour. It afterwards bursts and discharges a thin fluid, like whey, mixed with a curdy matter, or thick white floccuii. The red- ness of the skin still continues ; but the aperture enlarges as the tumor subsides, and thus a scro- fulous ulcer is produced. The margins of this kind of sore are generally smooth, obtuse, and overlap the ulcer ; they are of a purple colour, and rather hard and tumid. The surface of the sore is of a light-red colour ; the granulations are flabby and indistinct ; and the aspect is of a peculiar kind, which, as Mr. Burns states, cannot be described. The discharge is thin, slightly ropy, and copious, with curdy flakes. The pain is inconsiderable. When this ulcer has continued for some time, it either begins slowly to cicatrise, or, as more fre- quently happens, the discharge diminishes and be- comes thicker. An elevated scab is next formed, of a dirty white or yellowish colour. This con- tinues on the part a good while; and, when it falls offj leaves the place covered with a small purple cicatrix. Mr. Burns adds, that the preceding de- scription corretsponds to the mild scrofula, or the struma mansueta of the old writers. Sometimes, especially if a bone be diseased below the ulcer, tlie sore has a more flery appearance ; the surface is dark-coloured, the margins soft, elevated, and in- flamed, and sometimes retorted. The discharge is watery, the pain very considerable, and the sur- rounding skin inflamed. This has been called the struma inatigna. Such overacting scrofulous sores are most frequently met with over the smaller joints, particularly those of the toes. Sometimes a scrofulous abscess, after it has burst, forms a sinus ; the mouth of which ulcerates, and assumes the specific scrofulous appearance, while the track of the sinus still continues to emit a discharge. Scro- fulous swellings are often disposed to subside in winter, and recur on the approach of summer; but this is not an invariable law. Glandular enlarge- ments are very apt to become smaller, in a short time, in one place, while other glandular swellings originate with equal suddenness, somewhere in the vicinity of the former ones. Ulcers, also, very often heal, upon the appearance of the disease in other parts. {Burns on Inflammation, vol. ii. 1800.) Professor Carswell notices the opinion sometimes entertained, that scrofulous swellings are only simple chronic inflammatory enlargements of the lymphatic glands. This view, he conceives, is in- correct, "for (says he), among the great number of cases, which I have examined, I have never found these glands, when generally aflfected, ex- empt from the presence of tuberculous matter; and even when the cutis is pale (if they are situated under this tissue), I have sometimes found them almost completely filled with this morbid product. When therefore enlarged glands in a scrofulous patient ultimately disappear, we may conclude, al- most with certainty, that we have witnessed the ciire of a tubercular disease." (See lUustraliuns Vthe Elementary Forms of Disease, fasc. 1.) SCROFCJLA. According to Dr. Carswell, tabes mesenteric has been known to terminate favourably. In one case of this kind, he had an opportunity of exam- ining the mesenteric glands, and thereby of deter- mining the certainty of the cure. The patient (who, when a child, had been afltected with this disease, and also with swellings of the cervical glands, some of which ulcerated) died at the age of 21, of metritis, the seventh day after deliver3-. Several of the mesenteric glands contained a dry, cheesy matter, mixed with a chalky-looking sub- stance; others were composed of a firm cretaceous substance; and a tumor, as large as a hen's egg, included within the folds of the peritoneum, and' which appeared to be the remains of a large ag- glomerated mass of glands, was filled with a sub- stance resembling a mixture of putty and dried mortar, with a small quantity of turbid serosit3'. In the neck, and immediately beneath an old cicatrix, there were two glands, which contained in several points of their substance, which was healthy, small masses of hard cretaceous matter. Dr. Carswell has also been able to trace the same steps of the curative process in the bronchial glands. (0/>. cit. fasc. 1.) The glandular swellings which occur in syphilis, are of a more acute character than those which proceed from scrofula; and they arise from the absorption of a specific poison. Chronic swellings of the absorbent glands occur also in carcinoma; but these manifest little or no disposition to sup- puration: they succeed most frequently to car- cinomatous indurations, or ulcers existing in the neighbourhood of the glands affected; and they are accompanied in their progress and growth bv a peculiar lancinating pain. (See Thomson on Iii- ilammation, p. 135.) VVith regard to the proximate cause of scrofula, medical men may be said to remain, even at the present day, in entire ignorance of it. After the ridiculous theory, referring scrofula to certain humours in the constitution, or chemical changes in the blood, had been exploded, the opinion gra- dually arose, that it was a disease of the lymphatic system; and, indeed, that the absorbent glands are often visibly the seat of its attack, when no changes are distinguishable in other textures, is a fact that admits of no dispute. I believe, at the same time, that whoever supposes scrofula to be exclusively confined to the lymphatic system, must have a very imperfect conception of what is really the case. On the contrarj', I fully participate in the sentiments of Professor Thomson, already ad- duced upon this point, and in the belief of another modern writer, that strumous complaints "are not to be considered as dependent on disease of any particular system, as the lymphatic.'' {Lloyd, p. 10.) Such writers as have fixed upon the ab- sorbent vessels, as the particular seat of scrofula, can throw no useful light upon its origin, by fol- lowing up the theory, whether they imagine the cause to be obstruction of the vessels and glands, or take up the wild speculation of Cabani, that, in scrofula, the mouths of the lymphatics are in a state of increased activity, while the vessels theni- selves are in a state of atony; or the doctrine of Soemmerring, that scrofula depends upon a passive relaxation and dilatation of the absorbents; or the hypothesis of Girtanner, that these vessels are in a state of increased irritability. The idea of ob- struction being the cause has, of late years, been