VENESECTION. 988 This, indeed, is tlie common position. In some cases, however, particularly those of strangulated hernia, it is frequently an object to produce fainting, in order that the bowels may be more easily re- duced. In this circumstance, the patient may be Wed in an erect posture, and the wound made large, as a sudden evacuation of blood is particu- larly apt to bring on the wished-for swoon. [Since the introduction of chloroform this practice has been relinquished.] For the same reason, if we ■wish to avoid making the patient faint, we should then make only a small puncture. Every operator should be able to use the lancet with either hand, and thus bleed the patient in the right or left arm, as circumstances may render most eligible. At the bend of the arm there are several veins in which a puncture may be made, viz. the basilic, cephalic, median basilic, and median cephalic. The median basilic vein, being usually the largest and niost conspicuous, is that in which the operation is sometimes performed; but surgeons should never forget that it is under this vessel that the brachial artery runs, with the mere intervention of the aponeurosis sent off from the tendon of the biceps muscle. In very thin persons, indeed, the median basilic vein lies almost close to the artery, and nothing is then more easy than to transfix the first of these vessels and wound the last. Hence Richerand advises all beginners to prefer opening the median cephalic, or even the trunk of the ce- ' phalic itself, to puncturing the median basilic, which last is internally situated, and nearer the brachial artery. {Nosogr. Chir. t. iii. p. 38, ed. 2.) Dupuytren also objected to a puncture being made in the median basilic vein. In fat subjects, the large veins at the bend of the arm are sometimes totally imperceptible, not- withstanding the fillet is tightly applied, the limb is put in warm water, and everything done to make those vessels as turgid as possible. In this circumstance, if the surgeon has not had much experience in the practice of venesection, he will do well to be content with opening one of the veins of the back of the hand, after putting the member for some time in warm water, and apply- ing a ligature round the wrist. In children, a suffi- cient quantity of blood cannot always be obtained by venesection ; and, in this event, the free applica- tion of leeches, and, occasionally, the puncture of the temporal artery, are the only effectual methods. With respect to the choice of a vein in the arm, the most experienced operators give the preference to one which rolls least under the skin. Such a vessel, though sometimes less superficial than another, may commonly be opened with greater facility. The surgeon, hovvever, is always to fix the vein as much us he can, by placing the thumb of his left hand a little below the place where he intends to introduce the lancet. In bleeding in the arm, the fillet is to be tied round the limb, a little above the elbow, with sufficient tightness to intercept the passage of the blood through all the superficial veins; but never so as to stop the flow of blood through the arteries, which would tend to prevent the veins from rising at all. The veins he'mfi thus rendered turgid, the surgeon must choose the one which seems most conveniently situated for being opened, and large enough to furnish as much blood as it may be proper to take away. Before applying the fillet round the arm, how- ever, the operator should always feel where the pulsation of the artery is situated, and, if equally convenient, he should not open the vein imme- diately over this part. It is also prudent to examine where a pulsation is situated, on account of the occasional varieties in the distribution of the arteries of the arm. The ulnar artery is some- times given off from the brachial very high up, and, in this case, it frequently proceeds superficially over the muscles which arise from the internal condyle, instead of diving under them in the ordinary manner. The fillet having been put on the arm, the ope- rator is to take the blade of the lancet, bent to a somewhat acute angle, between the thumb and forefinger, and, steadyhig his hand upon the other three fingers, he is to introduce the lancet, in an oblique direction, into the vessel till the blood rises up at the point of the instrument. Then bringing up the front edge in as straight a line as possible, the wound in the skin will be made of just the same size as that in the vein. The ope- rator next takes away the thumb of his left hand, with which he steadied the vessel, and allows the blood to escape freely, till the desired quantity ia obtained. The arm ought to be kept in the same position while the blood is escaping, lest the skin should slip over the orifice of the vein, keep the blood from getting out, and make it insinuate itself into the cellular tissue. When, the blood does not issue freely, nioit surgeons direct the patient to move his fingers, or turn something round and round in his hand. This puts the muscles of the arm into action, and the pressure which they then make on the veins makes the blood circulate more briskly through these vessels. The proper quantity of blood being discharged, the fillet is to be untied. The flow of blood now generally ceases ; though sometimes, when the orifice is large and the circulation vigorous, it still continues. In this circumstance, the operator may immediately stop the bleeding by placing the thumb of hia left hand firmly on the vessel, a little below the puncture. The blood is next to be all washed off the ami, the sides of the wound placed in contact, and a small compress of linen applied, and secured with the fillet, put round the elbow in the form of the figure 8, and regularly crossing just over the com- press. The patient should be advised not to move his arm much till the fillet is removed, which may be taken away in about twenty-four hours. When the external jugular vein is to be opened, the surgeon generally makes the necessary pressure with his thumb. Tlie orifice should be made in the direction of the fibres of the plalysma niyoides muscle ; and the vein is not so apt to glide out of the way when the surgeon makes the puncture just where it lies over a part of the sterno-cleido- inastoideus muscle. The patient's head is now to be laid on one side, and properly supported; then the operator is to press upon the lower part of the vein with his thumb, so as to make the part above it swell, and the lancet is to be pushed at once into the vessel, with the cautions already statta. There is commonly no difficulty in stopping the bleeding afier the pressure is removed, oome practitioners divide the integuments with a scalpel,