572 ' SEARCHING. tion of phosphates, and considers that the use of this meat would prevent all tendency to scurvy. Its antiscorbutic virtues have yet to be satis- factorily tested, and there is no doubt that, up to the present time, in the absence of a sufficiently varied scale of diet, good lime or lemonjuice is by far the most efficient antiscorbutic about which positive evidence has been obtained. The internal administration of drugs in scurvy is unnecessary, for, if fresh vegetable diet can be procured, and due care be taken as to warmth and cleanliness, the patient recovers rapidly. In the absence of fresh fruits and vegetables, preserved and dried fruits, sugar, treacle, pickles, wine, and beer should be given. If the gums be very foul and swollen, some benefit may be derived from the use of a dis- infecting lotion. All antiphlogistic treatment is dangerous; Lind records the specially bad effects produced by mercury, and we cannot endorse the opinion of Opitz, who recommends vesication of the affected parts. There is, indeed, no malady the treatment of which is so simple, and the success of that treatment so certain and rapid. Uncom- plicated scurvy is now seldom a mortal disease, for the causes of its intensity are diminishing annually, and it is probable that, if the hygienic measures indicated in The Merchant Shipping Act 1867, be faithfully carried out, scurvy will, except as one of the many evils of war, soon be an unknown disease. The surgical aspects of scurvy are important, and it may at once be stated that the presence of this disease should, unless under very exceptional circumstances, always contra-indicate any sort of operation. All processes of repair appear to be perverted, ulcers have a foul malignant appearance, somewhat simulating fungus, and, if tissues be destroyed, numerous granulations form, fill up the wound, and project beyond the surface (Parkes). Experiences gleaned during the Crimean war abundantly proved the unfavourable influence ex- ercised by scurvy over all operations performed during the first winter in the camp before Sebas- topol. McLeod says that " scurvy was the de- structive agent against which it was most difficult to cope. I-Isemorrhages of frequent repetition and difficult of suppression ; fractures refusing to unite ; sores unaccountably hard to heal. The slomrhing buboes which they (i.e. the French) had"to contend against were amongst its worst complications." " It is somewhat remarkable that the regulations require the issue of limejuice to troops on board of ship, when salt meat is issued for a certain number of days, but that there is not any similar provision for the protection of troops on shore, though the necessity may be equally urgent, as it has been in the Crimea, and would be in a fortress that was invested or blockaded." (Arm;/ Reports.) Milroy says that tlie almost entire disappearance of scurvy from our army diir- ing the last twelve months of the occupation, while it continued to exist in other parts of the allied camp, affords a convincing proof how much some forms of disease, which have often been most de- structive to armies, may be prevented by attention to one set of hygienic requirements. The total number of admissions into hospital for this disease during the Crimean war was 2,096, of which 1,836 were noted between 1st of July 1854 and the siime day of the following year. Dr. Marlln (2«th Regiment) remarks that, during tlie first six mouths of the siege, nearly every admission into hospital exhibited unequivocal signs of the scorbutic taint. The Medical Director-General of the Army, in his report on the surgical history of the Crimean war, says, in speaking of scurvy, " Even in cases where recovery did take place, its influence was largely and banefuUy felt ; not only were wounds slow to heal and suppuration profuse, but many uncomplicated flesh wounds remained in a state of chronic ulceration, with little tendency to heal or to spread, and the frict that limejuice and other means remedial against scurvy are reported to have been of great and marked utility in a large number of cases, suf- ficiently shows their nature." Scurvy does not appear to have exhibited, during this war, the very marked symptoms observed at sea, but it is pro- bable that this was in a great measure owing to the presence of dysentery or some other intestinal complication in those who were the subjects of scurv}'. The medical history of the American war furnishes similar records as to the unfavourable circumstances under which all operations performed on scorbutic patients must be conducted. The surgical deck of the Dreadnought Hospital Ship is seldom without cases that have been brought from the medical department in a semi-convalescent state as to scurvy, but with a fracture slowly uniting, a bubo still retaining the dull blueish discoloration round its edges, or a wound filled with unhealthy and excrescent granulations. Cases of this kind remain in hospital from three to twelve months, and seldom appear to regain at the end of that time a reasonable standard of health. It is likely that even, in future years, the exigencies of war will still tend to the production of scurvy, in- asmuch as large bodies of men are suddenly col- lected in a comparatively confined area, iinder unfavourable hygienic conditions, and furnished with a very scanty supply of vegetables or fruits of any kind. But, as it is now practicable to pro- vide the crews of ships with a proper scale of diet, and, as moreover, marine passages now seldom exceed five months, this disease should be un- known in the mercantile, as it has been for sonie years, in the Royal Navy. It cannot be denied that all other asthenic diseases predispose to scurvy, and that if men are the subjects of venereal or other maladies afloat, the occurrence of scurvy in such cases is probable. But it is not, on that account, excusable, nor, with the vast variety of portable prandial material now at command, can we allow that scurvy should ever complicate other diseases at sea.] {Harri/ Leach.) rBiBLiooRAPHY.—A Treatise on the Scurvy, by James Lind, JI/.B.1757. Scurvy, by Dr. Bitdd Library of Medicine vol. v. A review on the Pathology anrt Treatment of Scurvy, by Dr.. E. A. Parkes Untish and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, Oct. 1848. Copland's Medical Dictionary. Observations on tlie Diseases of Seamen, by Gilbert Blane, Af.D. 1799. Contributions to Lancet of Nov. 3 and 24, and Dec 8. 1860, and to Medical Times and Gazette ot Am il 8i7 I y Stephen II. Ward, M.D. Notes on the Surgery of the Crimean War, by G. U. B, M V. Report of the Commission of Inquiry into the supplies of the British Army in the Crimea. Medical and Surgical History of the British Army which edited by J. Russell Reynolds, M.V. I8b7.j SEARCHING The operation of introducing a metallic instrument, through the urethra, into the