URINARY CALCULI. ■ 843 l Uher complicated proceedings which he advises these cases without diagrams. The student i ho requires further information should therei'ore ( nisult Dieffeubach's worlc itself, Dio Operative Cliiniiyie, 1845, Vol. I. ; or Tho Duhlin JouriiaU Vol. X., 1036; or it may be found in a worlt On Siridure and Perineal Fisluice (wliicli contains il- lustrative drawings of the steps of tiie operation), by the writer of this article. Openings in the Perineum.—As regards the treat- ment of these openings, depending on loss of substance, much must depend on the necessities of each individual case. Generally speaking, such openings, requiring plastic operation, are rare; the soft parts are naturally abundant, the urethra is deeply placed, and thus more active xigents than the cautery, in some one of its various forms, are not often necessary. This is to be applied at first to the bottom of the sinus, close to the urethra itself. Little by little, adhesion, contraction, and, finally, closing in of such passage may be accom- plished in this manner. Perhaps the most efficient means of applying it is the galvanic apparatus of Mr. John Marshall, of University College Hospital. Its advantage consists in the power which the ap- paratus possesses to maintain in the cauterizing wire an exceedingly high temperature, nearly that of white heat, during all the time required for the process of application; and in the illuminating power of the current. In passing the heated wire to the bottom of a deep sinus, a clear view of the parts around is easily obtained, the utility of which may be readily understood. Where the loss of sub-^itance has been so con- siderable as to render attempts by the cautery hopeless, a flap is to be transplanted from the neighbouring parts, the edge of the opening pared, and good approximation, without making any strain on the Hap, ensured by fine harelip pins, or by the silver suture. The urine is to be withdrawn as usual by catheter.] Henry Thompson, [A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Lond. 1819, part 2. //. Earle, Pract. (Jljserv. on Surgery, Lond. 1823. Dieffenhach, Oppenheim's Journal, Hamburir (trans- luted ill Dublin Journal, vol. x. 1836): Die Operative Cliirurgie, Leipzig, 1843, vol. i. P. F. Blandin, Autoplastic, I'aris, 1836. A. J. Jobert (de Lamballe), Traits de Chir. Plast., Paris, 1849, vol. ii. ./. Roux, Qnaiante ann^es de Prat. Chir. Paris, 1854, vol. i. Tram. Med.-Chir., Lond. 1845, Gazette Mid. de J'aris, 1834, p. 34?. Gazette des Hdpitmu; 1852, August, 1834, March. Si':galas, Lettre a Dieffenbach, Paris, 1840. U. Thompson, Stricture of Perineal Fistula, Lond. 1869.] URINARY CALCULI.--A true explana- tion of tlie imture of urinary calculi must have been quite impossible until chemistry had made con- siderable progress, and the methods of analyNis advanced far towards perfection ; and, as will ap- pear in the course of this article, all the valuable knowledge which now exists upon this interesting subject is in reality the fruit of modern investiga- tions. It is to be regretted, however, that our in- formation on many points is far from being settled or complete, as any impartial and judicious reader may soon convince himself by a reference to the abhi and scientific views, entertained by Dr. IVout, of various questions, relative to tlie form, ation of gravel and calculi, and the treatment of such cases in all their varieties. (See An luqniry into the Nature and Treatment of Qravel and Calculus, and other Diseases connected with a dcranyed Operation of the Urinary Oryans, 8vo. Lond. 1821.) Mechanical deposits from the urine are di- vided by Dr. Prout into three classes:—1. Pul- verulent or amorphous sediments. 2. Crystal- lized sediments, usually denominated gravel. 3. Solid concretions, or calculi, formed by the aggre- gation of these sediments. Pulverulent or Amorphous Sediments, are de- scribed by Dr. Prout as almost always e-xisting in a state of solution in the urine before it is discharged, and even afterwards until it begins to cool, when they are deposited in the state of a fine powder, the particles of which do not appear to be crystallized. Their colour is for the most part brown or yellow ; and, generally speaking, they consist of two species of neutral saline compounds ; viz. the lithates of ammonia, soda, and lime, tinged more or less with the colouring principle of the urine, and with the purpurates of the same bases, and constituting what are usually denominated pi7ih and lateriiious sedi- ments ; and, secondly, the earthy phosphates, namely, the phosphate of lime, and the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, constituting for the most part sediments nearly white. The two species of sediments are frequently mixed together, though the lithates generally prevail. Crystallized Sediments, or Gravel, are com- monly voided in the form of minute angular grains, or crystals, composed, 1. Of lithic acid, nearly pure ; 2. Of triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia; and, 3. Of oxalate of lime. The crystals of lithic acid, which are by far the most frequent, are always more or less of a red colour. Those composed of the triple phosphate of mag- nesia and ammonia are nearly white; wliile others, composed of the oxalate of lime, which are extremely rare, are of a dark, blackish green colour. (Prout, Op. cit. p. 79, &c.) [Calculous concretions of oxalate of lime may be dark in colour, but the crystals, which are now well known, are transparent and colourless, and of very common occurrence.] Solid Concretions, or Urinary Calculi, arising from the precipitation and consolidation of the urinary sediments, may be formed in anj' of the cavities to which the urine has access ; and hence they are met wit^h in the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. Most of them are believed to be originally produced in the kidneys, from which they afterwards descend with the urine. To this statement, however, the cases in which calculi are formed upon foreign bodies introduced into the bladder through the urethra, an accidental wonnd, or some ulcerated communication between the intestines and the bladder, are manifest excep- tions. In the centre of urinary calculi, bullets, splinters of bone, pieces of bougies, and wood, pins, needles, nuts, &c., are frequently observed ; and it would appenr that a very minute sub- stance is capable of becoming a nucleus ; a mere clot of blood, or a little bit of chafl", if not soon voided, being sufficient to lead to the formation of a stone in the bladder. A needle that had been swallowed, insimiated itself into the bladder, and became the nucleus of a calculus. (See Dublin ■Jouni. of Med. Science, No. 1.) Many instances ' are recorded of calculi containing hairs, which I doubtless were the original nuclei of them. Such