OVARIOTOMY, E £ 2 the abdorainal-opening without undue force. In a case where there are several cysts which cannot be 'tapped one through the other, they must be emptied singlj', either by the same trocar or by another. Great care unist be taken, if the same trocar be used, lest some remaining fluid should escape through the punctured opening into the ab- dominal cavity. Having succeeded in reducing sufficiently the size of the tumor, the surgeon then draws it through the incision, at the same time breaking down any adhesions which have not been sepa- rated before. The assistant opposite to the opera- tor now places his hands on either side of the incision, and, by a gentle pressure on the abdomi- nal wall, prevents the prolapse of the viscera by carefully keeping the edges of the incision in close approximation. The assistant at the operator's left hand receives the cyst in a towel or basin, and supports it until it is completely separated. No traction whatever is permitted, and the greatest precaution ought to be exerted in this respect when the pedicle is short, and when there remain undivided adhesions. In order to relieve the weight of the tumor, cysts which had not been emptied before may be punctured, and secondary cysts, if the septa are thin, may be broken down by the hand. Great care ought to be taken that nothing gravitates into the abdominal cavity. But it will not be always possible to reduce the tumor at all, or sufficiently to bring it through the original incision. Tumors are sometimes met with which consist of solid or semi-solid unyielding masses, or are divided by trabeculie into small loculi filled with viscid, colloid substance, which cannot be broken down and will not pass through the canula. It will therefore become necessary to enlarge the incision upwards. This is less dan- gerous than any attempt at squeezing a large tumor through a narrow outlet, a practice which is fraught with double danger : (a) the cyst may burst, and its contents escape into the abdominal cavity. This would be more dangerous if the contents are not fluid and readily removable with sponges, but colloid, viscid, and very adhesive to the peritoneal coats of the viscera. (6) The edges of the wound are liable to be bruised, and the hopes of union by first intention frustrated, or the peritoneum so injured that fatal peritonitis or gan- grene results. The writer was formerly in the habit of having flannels wrung out of water at 96° carefully wrapped round the cyst as it escaped, to protect the peritoneal cavity. But he discontinued this practice, from finding that it was impossible to prevent small filaments of wool separating from the flannel and adhering to the peritoneum. If, as the tumor is withdrawn, omentum, mesentery, or intestine, are seen to be adherent to it, the adhesions must be carefully broken down with the fingers, or, if very firm, they may be divided with the scalpel or scissors. When intes- tine is so firmly adherent that it cannot be safely separated, the adhering portion of the cyst should be cut away, leaving it attached to the intestine, but removing the inner secreting lining membrane of the cyst. Any portion of the omentum separated should be carefully held, to see that no bleeding vessel is returned. Any portion which appears to be much 419 altered from the natural condition, or torn in the process of separation, should bo cut away ; and any bleeding vessel should be stopped by torsion or by ligature. If by ligature, the ends may either be brought out through part of the wound or (which appears to be much safer practice) cut short to the knot, and returned with the omentum. Experiments have shown that silk ligatures may be absorbed. The ligature should not include any portion of omentum—simply the bleeding vessels. In some cases it will be found that tiie adhe- sions are so firm and extensive, and so intimately connected with viscera, that the separation of the tumor would be impossible, or fraught with the utmost danger. The surgeon will therefore be compelled to leave the diseased organ in the abdomen, or only remove part of it. He will close the wound, and regulate the after-treatment as if the operation had been completed. Reference to a former column willjshow the proportions in which this has occurred in the practice of the writer. Dr. Eugene Dutoit, in his carefully compiled tables {Die Ovariotomie in England, DeutscUand, und FranlcreicJt, Wurzburg, 1864), furnishes the following statistical information on attempted but not completed ovariotomies :— Temporary recovery (death between 20 days— 7 years) Total Died (within 7 dayi Recovered England . . America . . Germany . . Russia (operator, Galenzowski) 59 20 7 1 15 7 33 9 2 1 11 4 1 Total . 87 26 45 16 Of those who succumbed to the attempted opera- tion, several suffered from cancer. Of those who permanently recovered, several bore children afterwards. The temporary recoveries include patients who recovered from the operation, but died afterwards —(a) from rupture of the cyst; (6) from the effects of other means of treatment; (e) from accidental diseases. T/io Pedicle.—When the whole tumor has been withdrawn, it will be found to be attached to one side of the uterus by a pedicle, which varies very much in length and breadth, and always contains large blood-vessels. The pedicle consists of the broad ligament, the Fallopian tube, the ovarian ligament, and some- times the round ligament. Its blood-vessels are the internal spermatic and uterine arteries and the spermatic veins. The internal spermatic artery on each side arises from the front of the abdominal aorta below the superior mesenteric arterj', enters the broad ligament laterally at the inlet of iho true pelvis, and supplies the ovary. Here it inosculates with a branch of the uterine artery, which passes along the tube to the ovary. It sends also small branches to the ureter, to the subserous areolar tissue of the