300 MORTIFICATION. Chir. t. i. p. 140), as well as Larrey in his account of trauinalic gangrene. Under the head of morlijicalinn fmm tlia dele- terious iiijlucncc of certain poisons. Dr. Carsweli notices oiie form arising from the bite of lhacubra di cnpello, llie rattle-snnlce, and viper; another pro- duced by a deleterious agent, generated during the decomposition of animal substances; a tliird, known by the term hospit;il gangrene; a fourth, exemplified in the mabgnant pustule; a filth, in the carbuncle of plague; and a sixth, in the mor- tification caused by eating various grain in a state of disease. Mortification from ceding bread made of bad black wheat or from spurred rye (this used to be reclvoned amongst trie species of a!;-^ gangrene, a classification not correct, and now obsolete) has been rarely observed in England; but it has been frequently seen on the Continent, in districts where rve forms a principal article of food. It occurs, however, in such districts only after wet seasons, in which that grain is affected with the disease known by the name of the Ergot, or cockspur rye. In this disease, the grains of rye grow to a large size, acquire a black colour, and have a com- pact horny consistence. The species of mortifica- lion, produced by eating this substance, was first particularly described by Dodard. (See Journ. des Savaus, an. 167(i.) The part aifected became at first insensible and cold, and, in the progress of the disorder, dry, hard, and withered. In very malig- nant cases,' there was delirium. Dodard says that fowls, fed with cockspur rye, are killed by it. Saviard informs us, that he saw tliis dis- ease in the year 1C94, at the Hotel Dieu of Orleans. It "attacked the upper and lower ex- tremities, which were rendered, in the course of the disorder, as dry as touchwood, and as emaciated as the limbs of Egyptian mummies. In 1710, Noel, surgeon to the Hotel-Dieu at Orleans, transmitted to the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris an account of this peculiar mor- tification. About fifty people, men and children, had come that season into the hospital with the affection. According to Noel, the disorder always •began in the toes, and extended itself gradually alone- the foot and leg, till it sometimes rose to the upper part of the thigh. lie had never seen any of the female sex aifected with it, and had ob- served only one instance of it in the upper ex- tremities. The Academy received the history of one case, in which the lower extremities were separated from the bodv in the articulations of the thigh-bones with the acetabula; the first example (Dr. Thomson believes) of this separation upon record; and it was the occurrence of this, and ot similar cases, that probably first suggested the operation of [imputation at the_ hip-joint. (See Thomson on Ivjlamiiialion, p. 541.) As Nod's patients did not come under his care till after the disease had existed some time, he could not describe from his own observation the early symptoms: but the patients had often told liim, that the disease generally began in mie, or both feet, with pain, redness, and a sensation of heat, as burning as the fire: and that, at the end of some days, these symptoms ceased, as quickly as they had" come on, when the extreme sensation ol heat, which they had lormerly felt, was changed into cold. The part affected (adds Noel) was black, like a piece of charcoal, and as dry as if it had passed through the fire. After some lime, a line of separation was formed between the dead and living parts, like tliat which appears in the separation of a slough produced by the cautery; and the complete separation of the linib was, in many cases, effected by nature alone. In others, Noel was obliged to have recourse to amputation. The blood seems to undergo a change, hasmorrhagcs ensue. The chief post-mortem appearances are, congestion of brain, liver, and lungs, {'fai/lor on Poisons, p. 538.) This disease appeared in Switzerland in 1709 and 171G, audits symptoms and progress in that country have been accurately described by Langius in a dissertation, entitled, " Descriplio ISIorborum ex Esu Clavorum Secalinorum." Gassaud, physician in Dauphiiiy, where this disease appeared also in 1709, states, that many of the patients were affected with swellings of the feet and legs, and of the hands and arms, which degenerated into a gangrene th:(t penetrated to the bone, and produced a separation of the affected limb. The disorder was attended with different symptoms in different individuals. Siime suffered very violent pain, accompanied by an insufferable sensation of heat, although the part affected often felt cold to the touch. In other patient?, redness, with much swelling, supervened, attended with fever and delirium. Other patients were without any fever, or delirium, though they seemed to suil'er equal pain. In some patients, the parts af- fected become withered, dry, and black, like char- coal. The separation of the de:id p-.irts from the living took place with the most excruciating pain, and a sensation resembling that produced by the direct application of fire. This sensation was some- times intermittent ; and, in other instances, it was succeeded by an equally harassing sensation of cold. According to Bassau, surgeon to the hospital of St. Antoine, in Dauphiny, the cases which he saw were not all of the dry kind, the limb some- times becoming putrid, and maggots being gene- rated. He says, that the disease was not infec- . tious, and it attacked indiscriminately men, women, and children. The degree of fatality, caused by this species of mortification, seems to have been extremely various. In the Memoirs of the Roi/al Academy ofSdenccs for 1741), M. Duhamel mentions, that of T2U persons afflicted, scarcely four or five reco- vered with their lives. According to Langius, it was equally fatal in Switzerland. Dr. Thomson believes that the preceding sort of gangrene has never occurred in this countrj'-, exceptfng, perhaps, the cases recorded by _Dr. Charlton Woolaston, in the Fhil. Trans, for 17G2; and which proceeded from eating unsound wheat, not rye. (See On Inflammation, p. 54B.) Dr. Carsweli shid, that " all the local changes appear to be produced as direct consequences of the spurred rye, acting through the medium ot the blood, or nervous system, or both at the same lime ; for, we have seen, that the dead parts are separated without hemorrhage, and it is stated, that the blood, when taken from a vein, is dark, and so very thick that it only oozes out froin the orifice of the wound." (See Illuslraiions of the Elem. Forms of Disease, Ease. 7.) nal causes of mortiucation, which are The e.vtcri or chemically, are manifest, and act mecliaincally, burns; e.xcessive cold; the application ol caustics;