SCROFULA, hurry on a suppuration. I am doubtful if this last be ever practised with advantage; for scrofulous tumors sometimes spontiineouslv disappear, but never after any deijree of inflammation has come upon them; and, tiierefore, poultices, which com- monlv induce inflammation, prevent that discussion of tumors, which niiijht otherwise have happened." Even when scrofulous tumors had advanced towards suppuration. Dr. Culien thought, that hastening the spontaneous opening, or making one witii a lancrt, was hurtful. Formerly, the extirpation of scrofulous tumors was advised; but this method is now considered as being for the most part injudicious, and unne- cessary, with the exception of diseased joints, and a few other parts, which frequently require .impu- tation or excision of the heads of the bones for the sake of saving the patient's life. Certainly, no particular danger (generally speaking) would at- tend cutting out scrofulous glands, and tumors : the objections to the plan are founded on the pain of the operation; on the number of such glands frequently diseased; on their often subsiding,either spontaneously, or by surgical treatment ; on the operation doing no good to the general affection of the system, &c. Wiseman relates, that he was in the habit of cutting out scrofulous glands, and tumors, with great success ; but, for reasons al- ready alleged, most of the moderns think such operations in general unadvisable. Caustics have been employed for thes same purpose, instead of the knife; but as they eftect the object in view less certainly, more painfully and tediously, and cause extensive ulcers, they are disused by all the best surgeons of the present day. Some authors advise making issues, and keeping them open, in order to prevent any ill eff'ects from the healing of scrofulous ulcers. Issues may, per- haps, be unnecessary for any purpose of this kind: but they are eminently useful as a part of the local treatment of scrofulous joints and abscesses, as we have more particularly explained in the articles Joints, Lumbar Abscess, and VEaTEBa.u. The good effects of iodine upon scrofulous tumors and ulcers, both as an internal medicine and local application, seem to be exciting con- siderable attention. Certain indolent swellings of the t 'sticle and breast, in particular, yield to this powerful medicine. Iodine, as prescribed by Lugol, is at present in considerable repute. He recommends it to be given in small doses, varying from half a grain to two grains in the 24 hours, dissolved in distilled ■water, with double its proportion of h3-driodute of potash. Lugol also emploj's iodine in biiths and lotions to a much greatc-r extent than is done in this country. His baths contain about two grains of iodine in each pint of water, and his lotions for BcrofuloHs ulcers, &c., about one grain and a half, dissolved with hydriodate of potash. Hydriodate of potash, with sarsaparilla, is frequently given by British surgeons to scmfnlous patients, and with decided benefit. From three to five grains of the hyilriodate, in from two to four ounces of the de- coction twice or thrice a day, may be safely tried in a variety of cases. (See Iodinb. ) 563 Preparations of lead ; cold water; sea water; ■weak vegetable acids ; cether ; lininientum cam- phora); a mi^xturo of rether and laudanum; and „ „„„ repemion hemlock poultices; the unguent, potassa; hydrio- blisters, are the most serviceable class of remedi '■ 0 0 2 datis; form a long list of applications which have been employed for scrofulous tumors. According to Mr. Burns, moderate pressure, by means of adhesive plaster, conjoined with the ap- plication of cold water, is one of the best plans of treating mild scrofulous ulcers, when their situa- tion admits of it. In other cases, he recommends applying a powder, five parts of which consist of cerussa acetata, and the sixth of burnt alum. A piece of dry lint is next to be applied, aiid a com- press, with such pressure as can be borne. Be- nefit occasionally results from dipping the compress in cold water. Water dressing, or nng. zinci, is an eligible application, when it is wished not to interfere much with the progress of the ulcer. Ung. hydrarg. nitrat. rub. and the ung. hydrarg. nitrat. are amongst the best stimulating ointments. Piudtices of bread and sea water; lotions of alum, sulpliate of copper, and the bichloride of mercury; solutions of the nitrates of copper, bismuth, and silver ; the recent leaves of the wood-sorrel bruised; lint dipped in lemon-juice, or vinegar and water; a mixture of mercurial ointment and ceratum saponis (Scott on Chronic Inflammation, cjc), are among the applications to common scro- fulous ulcers. For irritable sores, diluted hydrosulphuret of ammonia ; ointments containing opium ; carrot and hemlock poultices; a solution of opium; and carbonic acid gas, have all been recommended. Tlie following are Mr. Russell's sentiments re- specting the treatment of scrofulous ulcers: "Scro- fulous complaints in general do not do well with stimulant applications. In the treatment of scro- fulous ulcers under the ordinary circumstances of the complaint, the simplest and mildest dressings answer best. When the patients are usingacourse of sea bathing, it is usual to wash the sores with sea water over and above the momentary application of the aea water during the immersion of the whole body. Cold spring water is likewise a favoui ite ap- plication with many practitioners; and, from much observation, it appears that the operation of cold is well suited to counteract the state of inflammation which accompanies scrofulous sores. Preparations of lead are. upon the whole, very convenient and useful applications, provided the solutions be used in a state of sufficient dilution to prevent irritation. Liquid applications are applied by means of wet Imen, which is renewed whenever it dries, so that the surface of the sore may be kept constantly moist, when under this course of manngement. Upon the same principle, simple ointment and Goulards cerate furnish the best dressing in ordinary cases. " Scrofulous congestions, of a solid nature, in the more external parts of the bodj-, are little adapted to the practice of local bleeding, unless they be attended with symptoms of inflammation- but as some degree of inflammation is, in general* present during the incipient stage, it may be pru- dent to employ local bleeding in moderation at the commencement of the attack, although there may be no indication to persist in the practice, after (he complaint has adranced farther in its progress. If, however, these congestions are more of an in', dolent nature, unaccompanied with heat or pain there is no benefit to be expected from the local' detraction of blood; warm fomentations, together with the use of stimulants, and a repetition of ius: