811 ULCERS. resembles the superficial syphilitic sore. It occurs in cases (non-syphilitic) in which mercury has been long administered (abused), and tlie nutrition of the tissues thus gravely compromised. It is much sel- donier seen now than formerly, and is an irre- gular, spreading, ragged sore, with supple base and scanty discharge, which can only be recognised by a consideration of the historj' of its rise and pro- gress. The " (jouli/ ulcer" forms over gouty deposits, or in parts much affected by gout. They are chronic in their course, and present insuflicient or no granulations. They are superficial, and their edges are not indurated or thick, and the surround- ing parts are to the eye healthy. Their characte- ristic feature is the drying of their exudation into a thin, white, chalky material. The ^^scorlmtic ulcer" may form anywhere, but more commonly it occurs on the gums, inside of the cheeks, on the legs, and on the dorsum of the feet. Their surface gets covered by a fibrinous, deeply-coloured exudation, which gives the sore a tumid, spongy, livid appearance. The slough •which is attached to it so firmly is dark, thick, fun- gous, and reappears quickly after removal. It bleeds easily. It was the peculiar dark, coagu- lura-looking character of this fungous mass which caused the term "bullock's liver" to be applied to it b}- sailors wherf it attained a great size, as it often did in former days. The term "dyspeptic ulcer" is a very foolish one, and was applied to ulcers accompanying di- gestive derangement. The " «/iuie<zc" ulcer, and that which occasionally accompanies Bright's dis- ease, are distinguished by the disease which they accompany. The " lupous ulcer" is commonly a scrofulous ulceration, and is seated on the face (jil i, lip, and cheeks). Its consideration belongs more especially to affections of the skin. It is usuall}' preceded by pink elevations or tubercles. They pass deeply, and cause much destruction, not onl\' to integu- ment, but also to cartilage, and even bone. The spreading of the disease is not usually painful, and tl'.e sore shows little healing appearance, the granu- lations, if presentat all, beingcoarse and unhealthy. The edges are comnmnly firm, and somewhat ele- vated, abrupt, and irregular, and the discharge pro- fuse and concreting into thicK scabs, under which the sore spreads. It is accompanied by other evi- dence of the strumous diathesis. The *' dartrous" or " eczenialous" ulcer may form in the midst of a previously existing eczenia- tous eruption, or the eczematous eruption may suc- ceed the ulcer, and come to surround it. In either case it is in ihe parts around the sore that the special characters of this ulcer are found, and not in the sore itself. To a vesicular eruplinn follows the cracked, watery, scaly, and irritahle condition of eizenia, and with its nmnagemont the treatment of the ulcer is combined. Pustular, bullar, tuber- cular, vesical ir, and other cutaneous eruptions are also occasionally accompanied by ulceration, and to these, as well as to the eczematous, the term " dar- trous" is often applied. Their consideration be- longs to that of the eruption which they accom- pn'iy- Local causes of peculiarity of action are usually easily recognised. A dead b(me or tendon ; a musket-ball or splinter of wood; enlarged veins; changed tissue, as in the cicatrices of burns, &c., are at once seen and appreciated as causes of irri- tation or weakness. " Varicose ulcers " are very common, and that in both sexes. They are especially apt to form in females after middle life, after repeated child- bearing, and it is on the leg, at its lower part, that they occur. The skin becomes changed, getting brown or mottled and thick, and the veins form saculated enlargements at various points. The ulcer ia often a direct result of the impeded circu- lation, maintained by these enlarged and weak veins; but at other times they are specific in their nature, and are complicated and retarded in healing by the varicose veins. It is with capillary varix that the worst form of ulceration is seen. The surface is permeated by small blue or pink lines; the integument has its nutrition seriously impaired and dies, or if an ulcer forms, does not supply adequate organisable material for recovery. These ulcers are very often inflammatory and highly painful, but occasionally they are chronic and indolent. They are more commonly shallow, superficial sores, surrounded by scaly brown skin; tlieir surface dusky and void of healthy granulations, and the discharge thin and acrid. At other times they are deep and foul, and discharge copiously a foetid secretion. If a vein of any size is opened in the progress of the ulceration, the hcemorrhage may be very free, but it is easily arrested by elevation and pressure. The great prevalence of ulcers, and the annoy- ance they occasion, makes the careful consideration of their treatment of much importance. It is a point of paramount consideration to dis- cover and remove (if still active) the cause which originated the sore. This we must do by a care- ful inquiry into all those constitutional and local sources of the affection which have been already dwelt upon. The influence of occupation; of the condition of the secretions and abdominal organs; of the circulation through the part; and the eiTects of any local weakness, must all he estimated. Then, in determining the kind of treatment to be adopted, we require to observe particularly the character of the sore—its features and surroundings, its ten- dencies and demands—and this interrogation and surveillance must be maintained, as the characters of an ulcer frequently undergo change under the effects of constitutional conditions or the action of remedies, and so the applications must vary from time to time. It is not unusual for an ulcer to remain after the original cause which produced it has ceased to exist. It lias come, as it were, to establish for iiself an independent existence in the economj-. This we occasionally see in the persistence of specific sores alter the constitutional cause has been removed. The most potent local causes maintaining ulcers are congestion from irritation or retarded ciiculation; weakened vitality from any other source, and deficiency of soft parts. It is of much moment to obtain, in the treat- ra' iit of most ulcers, by the use of purgatives and alteratives, a healthy action of the livt^rand bowels, and when obstinacy occurs in healing, especial at- tention should be paid to these organs. The state of the kidin-ya, too, and the uterus should be known; and "the history as regards blood affec- tions, syphilis, gout, scrofula, &c., inquired into. Opium is found to bo of great service in healing ulcers when not counter-indicated by some special