A DICTIONARY or PEACTICAL SUEGEKY. I IMP .MPERFORATE HYMEN. (See Vagina.) IMPERFORATE VAGINA. (See Vagin4.) [IMPOTENCE. Impotence is the term given : to all those morbid conditions in man or woman which are opposed to the pAt/sioloffical union of : the two sexes, that is to say coition. Impotence has been likewise defined inability to consummate marriage from whatever cause arising, and the word Sterility is reserved for all those morbid states which either in the one or other sex prevent the reproduction of the species. When, however, the term sterility is mentioned, it more especially applies to the female; and is synonymous with barrenness. Impotency or Impotence is the term usually applied to the man, and may be perhaps best described under the two divisions: ]. Absence of desire for connection—Temporary or false impo- tence. 2. Absence of power, or inability to per- form the act of consummation of marriage—True Impotence. ]. Temjmraiy or false impotence may arise from a variety of causes. We find, for in- stance, that some men reach adult age without having experienced any sexual desire at all. The complete sexual quiescence which is the proper condition of childhood continues, in these cases, during the period of youth, and even into adult age. So unusual a phenomenon as the entire non- developement of the sexual desire must always be rather an alarming and suspicious circumstance ; unfortunately, in most cases the medical man is not consulted, as neither the patient nor his friends are aware that there is anything unusual in his condition until it is accidentally discovered. When the surgeon is consulted, however, he will usually find that the individual is fat, without hair on his face, or even on the pubes ; the testes and penis arc small, almost rudimentary like those of a young child; no sexual desire ever troubles him, and his voice is often weak and almost falsetto in quality ; in fact, the condition is much the same as that of the castrated individual or eunuch. Dr. Davy has given tl;e following post-mortem appearances in a patient who showed, (according to the account given by his comrades) an aversion to the se.T. There was little hair vor>. II. pubes IMP chin, the jjartes naitirales were all small — the larynx was small, the skin delicate. A very minute portion of fluid only could be procured from the vasa deferentia, which under the mi- croscope exhibited numerous small particles, and a few larger globules, but no spermatic ani- malcules. The fluid of the vesiculce was also small in quantity and destitute of animalcules ; it was of a light brownish hue, slightly opaque, con- taining some globules, and did not change the colour of turmeric or of litmus paper. The fluid from their fundus was mostly gelatinous, and ap- peared to consist chiefly of mucus. The vesicidee seminales, in this instance, and their contents, re- sembled those of such castrated animals as I have hitherto examined. {Edinburgh Medical and Sur- gical Journal, vol. 1. p. 7.) Pope Clement XIV. in the eighteenth century, abolished castration of youths, which was then practised in Italy for the purpose of retaining the soprano voice : it is well known that the castrated preserve the shrill voice {voix aigue) of infancy, at the same time that the chest becomes fully de- veloped, thus giving volume to the voice. Women, in those days, were not admitted to the theatres ; hence this horrid mutilation, as it qualified the victims to aing soprano parts. In the cases of temporary or false impotence, which we are now considering, it is clear that the non-developement of the testes has produced this state of eunuchism, as well as most of the peculiar changes which, both in animals and in human beings, attend the condition of castration. _It_ does not at all necessarily follow that the existmgirapotence in any given case is anytliinn- but temporary. There maybe a late developemont o^fthe organs. _ Instead of the young man being preco- cious, circumstances may simply have delayed the structural and functional maturing of the testes, which, under proper treatment, may still be per- fected. If, however, on exMUiinatiou it should appear that the testes, instead of being merely small, are deficient; if they are apparently more nodules; if this degeneration has followed early attacks of mumps, or inllammatory affections of the testes, or accidents which have injured them early in life, the case nnist be considered as a hope- less one, and we must consider the patient as permanently impotent. Terrible ns this doom may