MELANOSIS the encysted, and non-encysted. According to the researches nf Dr. Carswell, melanosis is per- haps never found encysted in compound tissues or organs, as the brain, liuigs, liver, and kidneys; whereas it is always so in tlie cellular and adipous tissues, and sometimes on the surface of serous membranes. 3. Stratiform melanosis (m^lanose membrani- forme) is represented by Dr. Carswell to be formed onl3' on free surfaces, though M. Blandin states that it is occasionally produced on the ad- herent surfaces of serous membranes. As the name leads us to understand, the melanotic matter is deposited in the form of strata, or layers, or of a pseudo-membrane. Its consistence generally re- sembles that of jelly, and is inclosed either in a soft spongy cellular tissue, or fine transparent serous membrane of new formaiioo, so that, when pressed, it feels pulpy, but is not removed by the finger, or a scalpel passed over it, unless some force is employed. 4. Liquifiirm, or Fluid, Melanosis was not de- scribed by Laennec, which, as Andral remarked, is not surprising, inasmuch as be regarded melan- osis as a tissue or texture. M. Breschet has ap- plied this name to certain liquids of a dark colour, which seemed to him to arise from morbid secre- tion. In some individuals, M. Andral found in the cavity of the abdomen, after chronic perito- nitij, a black fluid which he regards as liquiforra melanosis. Dr. Carswell remarks, that the ap- pearance of true melanosis in a liquid form has in general been confined to natural or accidental serous cavities. Among the former the cavities of the pleura and peritoneum furnish almost the only examples in which the liquid melanotic mat- ter has been observed, and that too in very small quantity. I have never seen it in man as a pro- duct of secretion, but have met with it in conse- quence of the destruction of melanotic tHm(mrs, and the effusion of their contents into serous cavi- ties, the walls of which they had perforated. The accidental serous cavities, in which it has been found, are those which constitute cysts, particu- larly in the ovaries." MiM. Trousseau and Le Blanc met with a fibrous cyst, as large as the fist, situated above the kidneys of a horse, and contain- ing about eight ounces of black liquid. Breschet, Andral, and Cruvelhier, in describ- ing liquifiirm melanosis on mucous surfaces, espe- cially that of the stomach, have confounded it with the black discoloration of efi'used blood, pro- duced by the action of the gastric juice upon it. (Carswell.) (Modern pathologists consider melanosis as a variety of soft or medullary cancer, rendered black by the peculiar and characteristic colouring matter of the disease. Ri)kitansky's views are suffi- ciently expressed in thu following quotation from the Sydenham Society's edition of his " Manual of General Patholngical Anatomy,'' vol. i. p. 27.0: " Cancer melanodes, as an independent tumor presents most of the physical aspects of medullary carcinoma. Its cut fiurCace appears to the naked eye either homogeneous, or fibrous, or lobulated and of a more or less firm and brain-like consist- ence. A closer inspectiim of it reveals elementary granules, nuclei, cells of spherical or oval, caudate elongated, anjiular shape, and along with these the most varied intercellular substances and stromata Melanotic cancer imitates most commonly the 287 encephaloid variety of medullary carcinoma with round and caudate cells, and a membranous—a villo-membravious—stroma. 'These alien-growths are chiefly marked by their black, or brown black, brown, bronze, green or rust brown coloration. The first glance at these often numerous tumors generally suffices to show that the colour is merely accessory. For, amongst thoroughly tinged, we meet also with perfectly colourless, white, heterologous growths; and again between the two extremes others pigmented in the most various forms, in dotted or stellate patches, or in ramifying anastomosing strise. The white growths are recognised at once as genuine ordinary encephaloid cancer. A minute examination detects, according to cir- cumstances, a greater or lesser proportion of pig. ment, and even in the blackest, elements enough— cells and inteicellular substance—free from pig- ment. Pigment occurs free or inclosed in cells, in all the forms enumerated under that heading. Its , basis is, as there taught, and especially as the ex- amination of acutely produced or redundantly growing cancer melanodes incontestably proves, haematin in a free and dissolved state, or else blood-globules, with their pigment in substance. In the latter case, the alien-growth resembles an hsemorrhagic effusion, in which are found, along with the blastema, the elements of medullary cancer in various phases of coloration and of conversion into pignient. Chemical analj'sis must needs detect the consti- tuents of medullary carcinoma, and the pigment with its base. Barruel and Henry have discovered, in the melanosis in man, hsematin, fibrin, three kinds of fat, a considerable amount of phosphate of lime, and iron.] The largest melanotic masses are found in the loose cellular tissue behind the peritoneum, and these are always composed of many smaller ones. The largest smgle tumors are noticed in the liver In the horse, masses of true melanosis have been found m the former situation, weighing from twenty to forty pounds. It is further explained by Dr. Carswell, that the consistence of true me- lanosis is determined by the texture and form of the part in which it is deposited. " Thus, it is never found solid in serous cavities, for the plam reason, that its diffusion is not limited by dense unyielding tissues. Even in tumors at- tached to the serous covering of these cavities it IS for the same reason either perfectly fluid 'or not more dense than animal jellv. Loose cellular tissue IS also occasionally filled with the black matter in a fluid state. In the dense texture of the cutis, on the contrary, even the smallest tumors may be as hard as cartilage, and are generally ;is hriu as the pancreas. In the lymphatic glands and in the brain, the melanotic tumor acquires only a mednnn degree of consistence, although it 18 generally firmer in the former than in the latter Ml consequence of the capsule of the glands act' ing as a compressing cause. Melanotic tumors are susceptible of a soften- ing process, especially when situated near the snr ace. The skin becomes thin, ulcerates, and a fleshy blackish matter, characterising the disease, is dis charged. This is what M. Blandin saw take place in an old woman, who was afterwards admitted into La Salpctricre, and whose case is recorded