very severe abdominal pain with constipation is not relioved by opium, internal strangulation may be suspected. Tliere are other soothing medicines of less power '—as hemlock and henbane, extract of belladonna anditsalkaloidati-opine,aconite,and the like, which are of use as adjuvants, or in special cases, but in the general treatment of inflammation do not ap- proach opium in value. Very often towards the close of a case the surgeon is glad to resort to hydrate of chloral in doses of 20 grains, or to bromide of potass in the same dose, to procure sleep, if by chance opium should fail. Perhaps tiiere are few sootliing remedies more agreeable and beneficial than the application of warmth and moisture, special eulogies of which will be found in Abernethy's and Macartney's before-cited works. Steam may be applied by a local steam-bath ; or a bran poultice or fomenta- tion ; or warm moisture, with something of a demulcent quality, may be applied by means of linseed or bread poultices ; and any of these mav be medicated with narcotics, of which the extract of poppies, in the proportion of a drachm to a pint of boiling water, is at once the most convenient and powerful. Laudanum, or the extracts of co- nium, belladonna, or aconite, may be added in- stead. The cases in which heat and moisture are indicated are painful inflammations with spasm, as croup, dysentery-, &c., peritonitis and pleurisy, local inflammations from general blood-poisonin'o- phlegmonous, and other swellings tending rapidly to suppuration. The fourth class of remedies for inflammation are such as support the strength. Now, it must be considered that; as Todd said, in inflammation as well as in health, waste and disintegration must be balanced by nutrition; and that, although a great deal of waste is inevitable, and it may be difficult to administer much nutriment, yet as much should be given as can be without mischief, in order to avoid the risk of prolonged convalescence or even of fatal exhaustion. Moreover, many inflamma- tions (see section on Causes), especially pleurisies in young over-grown persons, have their root in a long course of exhaustion, and require abundant nourishment from the first. Everything in inflam- mation betokens expenditure of vital force, but this is a very different thing from that increase of force which Hunter taught, and which was the justification of remorseless blood-letting. Weber has proved that animals in whom fever and inflam- mation exist, waste faster, even though fed, than uufevered animals do if deprived of food. {Hen- ocrjue,Arcli.de Phjsioloijia, Paris lOGG.) During the first day or two of an inflammation—idiopatliic or traumatic—in a young robust subject who has been indulging in meat and beer, and has foul tongue and loaded bowels, low diet with diluents will suffice. In others a middle diet from the first, of bn)*.h, vegetables, milky rice puddings, and tlie like ; whilst, again, tliere are other cases which from Uie first, and most cases at their close, demand brandy and good soup to keep the heart going. In every wound," says John Bell, " there comes a period of weakness, in which we repent of every bleeding we may have made, even when it was really needed." {On ^Fb^<n</^, 2nd ed. liJOO, vol i p. 238.) ■ ■ AH men of sense arc more or less eclectic and INFLAMMATION. [671 einpu'ical in practice; eclectic, because in so com- plex a matter as human disease, two theories of in- flammation—such, we will say, as the humoral and the neural—may each be true and compatible with the other ; and empiric, because, as John Hunter said," the practice of medicine must be reduced to e-xperiment," and no one can tell the effect of any given treatment without trying it. Thus we ad- vise the student not to think of a depletory treat- ment and a supporting treatment as two things absurdly incompatible, but as being in reality complementary and adjuvant to each other. Blood may be taken from the arm to relieve an oppressed heart, brain, or lung, and any suffering organ may be drained by leeches to its infinite relief, and yet beef-tea and brandy may be given to replace old blood by new, to diffuse the circulation, and give comfort, hope, and tone to mind and body. The pet argument of the Erasistratean sect may be turned against themselves. If one says loss of food depletes as much as loss of blood, which is incontestable, then, e converso, bleeding without loss of food is no worse than loss of food without bleeding. Nay, bleeding may give at once, and without distress, the relief which abstinence, pur- gatives, and the like, take hours to give ; and in surgery, time is often life. We have already stigmatised the favourite medi- cal syllogism, a is b, and c is b, therefore c is a. (See p. 44.) There is another to match it: a is B, c IS not A, therefore c is not b. Under this delusion, some practitioners of twenty years since, instead of combining the benefits of depletion with those of rational nutrition, chose to consider the two practices incompatible, and set up an alcoholic treatment, as liable to be misused as the Sangrado practice which it took the place of. Todd, a genial and accomplished physician, who died too soon for his own reputation and the advancement of therapeutics, did the world the service of put- ting food into its proper place as a remedy, and of vmdicating the use of brandy; but yet was led by his enthusiasm to spread doctrines, sure to be abused by imitators who have more than his zeal and none of his discretion. AVhen Todd said of one case, " It is far more dangerous to life to dimi- nish or \yithdraw alcohol than to give too much," such a dictum, taken j,er se, reminds us of the ex- travagances uttered about bleeding by Abernethy Armstrong, Marshall Hall, Craigie, and MackinI tosh. This, however, need not obscure Todd's great merit in using brandy both as food and comforter. I say as food, because practice shows that It acts as food in supporting the strength • and as a comforter, because, as I have shown elsewhere {licport on Cheap Wines, Lend. ICGG) the one property common to all stimulants is! that they give a sense of comfort and quietness 1 here are cases in which it may be expedient to withold It; but if the pulse be very riipid, the skin pungently hot, the patient restless, the mind anxious; if much blood have been lost; if the patient be of an ana)mic, exhausted, debilitated or intemperate habit; if groat power be likely re- quired for the reparation of injury or disease- if the iiiflammation arise from the'exhausting causes mentioned at p. 3C, or be a consequence of septic contamination, then brandy or wine may be used freely. When brandy is requisite, then the es- sence of beef also cannot be amiss. We may soo young, innocent children in soarlatiiiu, unjedilv [I- 2] > a 1