SCROFULA Two specimens of tubercnlated lungs in the foetii preserved in Mr. Langstatf's nvisenm, have been adduced by Mr. Lloyd, as positive proofs of scro fula being hereditary. {On Scrofula, p. 23.) Th facts and arguments on this point, I think, ar decidedly in favour of the doctrine; and Dr. Ali son, who has treated very ably of the pathology of scrofula, has remarked, that, " in most cases, in which scrofulous diseases are fatal, the diseased action is in internal parts, and the first symptoms are obscure and equivocal. The chief and cer- tainly the most characteristic appearances on dis section are tubercles in different stages of thei progress. (S«e Ediiu Med. Chir. Trans, vol p. 403.) The same writer everywhere treats of phthisis as decidedly a scrofulous disease. In the individuals, possessins the disposition to scrofula, a peculiar softness and flaccidity of fibre are remarkable; their hiiir is more frequently light coloured than dark, and their eyes are oftener of a blue than any other colour. The eyelashes are frequently long and the pupils large. Their skin is generally very fine, and even handsome, both in regard to its outward texture and complexioi When pinched, it feels (as Sir A. Cooper ob- serves) thinner than that of a healthy child, and the vessels may often be seen meandering under it. Subjects with scrofulous constitutions fre- quently have a thickening of the upper lip; this swelling is sometimes very considerable, and oc- oasiiinnlly extends to within the nostrils The extremities of the fingers are broad and flat, or clubbed, as the plirase is, just like what is seen in phthisxal persons; and the belly is large. Scro fula is sometimes complicated with rachitis, or follows the latter affection; but .-there is as little reason for supposing rickets to arise from scrofula, as this latter from rickets. In some subjects, how- ever, the complexion is dark, and the skin coarse; but in these persons, at least when young, the face is generally tumid, and the look unhealthy. (Burns on Inflammation, vol. ii. p. 232.) Mr. White denies that grey, or blue eyes, light hair, and a fair complexion, ought to be consi- dered as marks of a scrofulous disposition; for the majority of children in this country have light hair and eyes while young, which become darker as they advance in life. Now, as the majority of scrofulous patients are children, and young sub- jects, and as most children in this country have naturally the kind of hair and eyes above de- scribed, Mr. White considers it inaccurate to lay any stress on persons aflfected with struma, or pre- disposed to this disease, having such appearances. {On Struma or Scrofula, p. 38, ed. 3.) However, it is to be recollected, that the greater frequency of scrofula in fair people is noticed in France, where the eyes are mostly dark. Thus, Alibert, in his description of a patient disposed to the disease, takes notice of his swelled nostrils and upper lip; his florid complexion; his fair, deli- cate, and glossy skin; his cheeks of a lively red colour; circumscribed, however, by a pallid bloat- edness of the rest of the face; his blue eyes; di- lated pupils; light hair; short neck; large head and lower jaw; flabby flesh; large, protuberant nelly; strong intellectual powers, &c. {Nosol. A'aturelle, p. 442; also Diet, des Sciences Med. *• i. p. 28L) Dr. Thomson expressly declares, that some of the worst cases of scrofula, which ho has seen, occurred in persons, whose complexion and hair were of a very dark colour. (Lectures, p. 134.) And every man of experience must be aware of one remarkable fact, namely, that many negroes are afflicted in this country with scrofula in its worst forms. Does not this fact indicate, at the fame time, that it is climate, which is most power- fully concerned in the production of the disease ? Since the African black, in his own countrj', is nearly exempt from scrofula. After all, however, as the disease is undoubtedly very frequent in per- sons of fair skin, light eyes. &c,, the term alike, at least in the sense of equally, may not be alto- gether correct in the following inference, viz. " that persons of every variety of complexion are ali/ee subject to this disease, and that it is only necessary to place them in circumstances, favour- able to its development, to have it fully formed." (LloT^d on Scrofula, p. 7.) The truth, I believe, is, that though children of dark hair and com- plexion are often attacked by scrofula, those of light hair and fair complexion are still more fre- quently afflicted, and this even in France, where the fact cannot possibly be referred to the number of fair children exceeding that of such as naturally have dark hair and complexion. Females are commonly believed to be rather more subject, than males, to scrofulous disease. (See Albert, Nosol. Naturelle, p. 449.) Struma prevails more extensively in temperate latitudes, than in very hot or very cold climates. It is also more frequent in some parts of Europe than others ; and in this country, it has been alleged to be most prevalent in the counties of Suffolk and Lancashire. At all periods, it seems to have been a very common complaint in this island. From history, we learn, that it was denominated the king's evil in the time of Edward the Confe.ssor, who is supposed to have been the first that at- tempted to cure it by the royal touch. From a register kept in the royal chapel, we find that Charles the Second touched 92,107 persons in a certain number of years; and this equally bigoted and useless practice was not discontinued till a re- cent period, when kings were found to be, as well as their poorest subjects, totally destitute of all supernatural povver. Scrofula is not communicable from one person to another; the opinion also, that scrofulous nurses may infect children, seems quite destitute of foun- dation. (See White, p. 26, &c.) Pinel and Alibert purposely kept scrofulous and healthy children together in the same ward, with- out any of the latter receiving the complaint. He- bre'ard could not communicate the disease to dogs inoculation. And G. T. Kortum, whose va- luable work contains every thing known about crofula at the period when it was written, tried in vain to impart the distemper to a child, by rub- " ing its neck every day with the pus discharged from scrofulous ulcers. Lepelletier, desirous of ascertaining the correctness of such experiments, repeated them : he made guinea-pigs swallow scrofulous matter; and he injected it into the veins, and applied it to wounds; but in no in- stance was there even a temporary appearance of the disease being communicated. The same author also mi.\ed scrofulous with vaccine matter, and inoculated with it; yet, he never found the vaccine vesicle, thus produced, deviate in the least from its regular course. Lastly, Lepelletier inocu-