NECROSIS. 3^4 causing thus a narrowing of tlieir cliannels, or by a complete oljliteration of the vessels themselves.] When !i bono perishes from inflammation of its substance, as Mr. Stanley has observed, we are not always able to recognise the presence of in- flammatory symptoms ; yet that this loss of vitality is sometimes preceded and produced by inflam- mation seems to have been exemplified in the fol- lowing case, recorded by that gentleman. A female, aged 17, died a month after the commencement of an attack of deep-seated inflammation of the leg. On examining the limb, the periosteum was found .separated from the shaft of the tibia, in its whole extent. The space between it and the bone was filled with purulent fluid ; the bone itself was of a deep red colour, which could not be wiped away, and was evidently produced by blood stagnant in the vessels. (See London Med. Gaz. vol. xx. p. 497.) And, in another place, he remarks, that the canals, transmitting the vessels in bones, are larger than the vessels themselves, which thus have space afforded for enlargement, so that the bone will contain more blood. It may be pre- sumed too, that vessels, which previously could not admit the red globules of the blood, are now pervaded by them, and hence the bone acquires a deep red colour. Tims, in a bone, from which the periosteum had been stripped, Mr. Stanley observed first a pale rose, and afterwards a bright red colour'produced ; and, "in an operation to extract a sequestrum, a flow of blood from the cut surface of the surrounding inflamed bone as free as from a divided muscle." (Vol. cit. p. 422.J The external causes, which injure the perio- steum and medullary structure, and thus produce necrosis, are wounds, contusions, pressure, fractures, comminutions, acrid substances, caustics, and ex- treme degrees of heat or cold. When the periosteum, in consequence of an external cause, inflames and sloughs, or is at once deprived of its vitality, as it may be by the action of caustic, fire, or intense cold, the vessels which conveyed nourishment to the bone are destroyed, and the death and exfoliation of the denuded por- tion of the bone are inevitable. But, if the de- tachment of the periosteum be not extensive, the patient young and healthy, and the treatment cal- culated to prevent inflammation, and preserve un- injured the vessels distributed to the bone, hopes may be entertained, that no part of it will die, but that granulations will very soon arise from its surface, being adherent to it as the periosteum was, and that they will grow to, and cicatrize with the surrounding parts. VVeidmann has explained, that the fact of bones not always exfoliating when deprived of the periosteum, which is a point ot practical importance in the treatment of wounds, was inculcated by Felix Wurtz, Ca:sar Magastus, and Belloste, at a time when the contrary opinion prevailed. Weidmann also adverts to his own experience and to the experiments of Tenon, in further proof of the preceding fact. {Mevi. de l'Acad, des Sciences, \lb^,-9.''^'t'^-) , . . . On the other hand, when the detached piece ol the periosteum is large; when the bone itself is contused; or when it has been long exposed to the air; when the inflammation is violent and extensive; when the patient is old, decrepit, or of bad consti- tution; and, more especially, when improper appli- cations are used, necrosis cannot be avoided. An internal necrosis, adecting the spongy tex- ture of bones, generally arises from constitutional causes- thou"h sometimes an external cause, which seems to affect only the surface of a bone, extends its action to the interior, so as to destroy the me- dullary membrane, and produce an internal necrosis. , , , i. In external injuries of the head, where the peri- cranium is lacerated, contused, or otherwise hurt, or where the outer table, or the diploeof the skull, is injured, the inflammation frequently extends to the inner table, and the dura mater Ijecomes de- tached. Hence, a collection of matter forms, which raav occasion many bad symptoms, aud even death itself ; or, if the patient survive, ex- foliation of part of both tables of the skull is the consequence. (See PoK's Chir. Works, Lond. 1779, vol, i. p. 32.) The same thing may occur in other bones, as well as in those of the cranium. Bromfield had an opportunity of seeing a necrosis of the spongy tissue of the upper and internal part of the tibia, brought on by the improper mode in which an issue was dressed. In order to keep the peas from slippin"- out of their places, a compress with a shilling in it, and a tight bandage were applied ; but the part was attacked with excruciating pain, and the spongy texture of the tibia in the vicinity became affected with necrosis. {Chir. Ohs. and Cases, vol. ii. p. 9.) This circumstance, as Weidmann observes,_ouglit not to surprise us: as numerous vessels quit the periosteum to descend into the substance of the bone, to ramify on the medullary cells themsdves, and freely anastomose there, it cannot be diflicult to conceive how inflammation, which is at first confined to the outside of the bone, may (through the medium of the vessels, which serve as con- ductors to it) penetrate more deeply, and extend its ravages in every direction. As a general rule (Mr. Stanley observes) when the walls of a cylindrical bone perish in their whole extent, the medullary texture suffers with them ; but he met with one remarkable exception, in which, in consequence of the application of nitric acid to a phagedenic ulcer of the leg, the whole of the periosteum of the tibia became inflamed the walls of the bone perished ; yet the medullary texture remained entire and with its vitality un- impaired {loo. cit. p. 82). fThe medullary membrane performs the same functions with respect to the internal lamolhe of the bone, that the periosteum does to the external; when, therefore, inflammation is excited in it, whetlier by disease or injury, necrosis of the ayers which form the walls of the medullary canal will occur, giving rise to the severe symptoms hereafter mentioned as distinguishing an internal necrosis. Operations upon the bones, amputations, and fivac- tures may cause this : it may follow a violen co - ussion, as from a fall, a blow from a &c., by which the membrane ,s detached fiom its connexions, and death of that part of the bone a s Xe Suppuration of the medullary texture eie ^.m % of these causes, and is attended bv very grave local and constitution.il results.J_ '^B I'ne'crosis may proceed from a-ther de-np tiou of causes, which are of a >'"'^''"^,^"^^ ua-e. In fevers of ^^^^ ^Se:SS=t Scrofiila syphi- rrli^'matism, and scurvy, also frequently pro-