INTESTINAL into another, commonly the upper into the lower part Of about fa'OO neciopsies of internal intestinal ob- structions analysed by Dr. Brinton, the frequency was in favour of intussusception, being 43 per cent., while the different parts of the intestinal canal are atlected with the following proportionate frequency:—" In 56 per cent, the ileum and CEecum are carried into the succeeding large intestine; the coscum and colon becoming inserted to a variable distance from the ileo-csecal valve inwards, to form a middle layer, the interval between which and the ileum contains a variable length of the vermi- form appendix. There the ileo-csecal valve gener- ally forms the lower end of the intussusception. In 32 per cent, the small intestine forms all the layers, and of these 32, in 25 the ileum is speci- fied (though, I think sometimes inexactly) as the seat of the lesion, the jejunum only three times. "In 12 per cent, the colon including the end of its sigmoid flexure is the bowel exclusively in- volved. The rectum scarcely ever forms more than the outer layer of an intussusception which has descended into it from above. Half the large class of ileo-csecal intussusceptions are infants under seven years of age ; many but a few months old. In them the occurrence of the lesion imme- diately followed a casual or artificial diarrhcea ; a coincidence which also obtained in some of the adults."J On this subject, Mr. Langstaff remarks, that the small _ intestines of children are so often affected with intussusception, in a slight degree, that most practitioners must have had opportunities of observ- ing this form of the complaint. The greater part of three hundred children, who died either of worms or during dentition, at the Hopital de la Salpe- triere,and came underthe examination of M. Louis, had two, three, four, and even more examples, with- out any inflammation of the parts, or any circum- stances leading to a suspicion that these affections had been injurious during life. "These cases (says M. Louis) seem to prove, that intussusception may be formed, and destroyed again by the mere action of the intestines." {Mem. de I'Acad. de Chirurg. 4to. t. iv. p. 222.) This opinion is confirmed by the authority of Dr. Baillie {MorUd Anaiomy, 2d edit, p. 162), who observes, that in "opening bodies, par- ticularly of infants, an intussusception is not unfre- quently found which had been attended with no mis- chief ; the parts appear perfectly free from inflam- mation, and they would probably have been easily disentangled from each other by their natural peri- staltic motion." A rare example is on record, •where the displacement existed at birth. (Beircil, Delnteslinisseintussiiscipieiitilius, Sfc. Helmst. 1769.) According to Mr. Langstaff, the disease assumes a more dangerous, and, indeed, generally a fatal form, when it occurs at the termination of the small intestines' in the cacum. A contracted state of the part to be intussuscepted, and a dila- tation of that portion of the canal, into which this part must pass, are essential conditions to the for- mation of an intussusception; and they existnowhero so completely as in this situation. The extent to which the affection here proceeds would appear almost incredible, if it wore not proved by well- authenticated facts. A person who considered the natural situation and connexion of the parts, would of course require the strongest evidence before he would believe that the ileum, ca;cum, ascending and transverse portions of the colon, may descend OBSTRUCTIONS. 91 into the sigmoid flexure of the latter intestine ; nay, more, that they may pass through the rectum, and be protruded in the form of a procidentia ani. Such cases, however, are recorded. (See Lellsom's Case in Phil. Trans, vol. Ixxvi.; and Langstaff, in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, No. xi.) Mr. Langstaff relates the case of a child three months old, the body of which he inspected after death, and found to confirm the truth of the pre- ceding account. The example was particular, in there being, in addition to an extensive intussus- ception in the usual way, a smaller invagination in the opposite direction, like what probably occurred in the case related by Mr. Spry. {Med. and Phy- sical Journal, No. xi.) Sir E. Home mentions a retrograde intussusception, in which a worm was found coiled up round the intussuscepted part. The disease took place in a boy who had swallowed arsenic. (See Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knoivledge, vol. i.) If the following mode of accounting for intus- susception be just, it will most frequently happen downwards, although there is no reason why it may not take place in a contrary direction ; in which case, the chance of a cure will be increased by the natural actions of the intestinal canal tend- ing to replace the intestine ; and, probably, from this circumstance, it may oftener occur than com- nionly appears. When the intussusception is downwards, it may be called progressive, and when it happens up- wards, retrograde. The manner in which it may take place is, by one portion of a loose intestine being contracted, and the part immediately below relaxed and dilated ; under which circumstances, it may very readily happen by the contracted portion slipping a little way into that which is dilated, not from any action in either portion of intestine, but from some additional weight in the gut above. How far the peristaltic motion, by pushing the contents on to the contracted parts, might force these into the relaxed, Mr. Hunter could not determine, but he was inclined to sup- pose that it did not have this effect. Mechanism.—An intussusception is composed of three layers of bowel, an inner, middle, and outer: the inner, being a prolongation of the upper portion of the intestinal canal into the lower or receiving portion; the middle, being the inverted portion, having its mucous surface di- rected outwards towards the mucous surface of the outer layer, and its serous surface directed in- wards towards the serous surface of the inner layer; the outer contains the middle and inner folds of bowel. The outer fold is the only one which is active, the inverted portion being per- fectly passive, and squeezed down by the other which inverts more of itself, so that the annle of inversion in this case is always at the angle of re- flection of the outer into the middle portion or in- verted one, while the innermost is drawn in. From this wo can readily see how an intussuscep- tion, once begun, may have an}^ length of gut drawn into it. The external portion, acting upon the other folds in the same way as upon any ex- traneous matter, will, by its peristaltic motion urge them farther; and, if any extraneous sub- stance is detained in the cavity of the inner por- tion, that part will become a fixed point for the outer or containing intestine to act upon. Thus it will be squce/.cd on, till at last the mesentery