! li oui it than twice its principal focal length, and on the same level as the eye to be examined. By loosening the screw the mirror is set obliquely to the lens and to the eye of the patient; and when It is rightly directed, we see, by casting the en- larged image of the flame upon the patient's cheek, a luminous circle with a dark central spot corre- sponding to the hole in the mirror. The patient must now look fixedly at an object behind the observer, and on the side opposite to that of the eye under examination, and the dark spot must then be thrown upon the centre of the pupil, while the observer, with his 03^6 as close as possible behind the mirror, looks into the eye of the patient. Dilatation of the pupil by atropia is not necessary. For examination of the inverted imat^e, a convex lens of 2^", or less, often of 2", is used, and is held, either between the thumb and fore- finger of the free hand, in front of the eye ex- amined, or upon a handle 6" long, with a spring- clip at the top ; while, in examination of the short-sighted, concave glasses are used, such as Nos. 12, 8, 6, 4, 3, or 2. The Ophthalmoscope of Epkens and Bonders.— A plane mirror perforated in the centre is placed in a cubical chamber, and turns by means of a milled head. One opening in the side of the chamber is turned towards the eye of the patient, and the observer looks through the opposite opening, which is furnished with the revolving disc of lenses contrived by Rekoss for the instru" ment of Helmholtz. Donders places in this disc three positive lenses, of the respective focal lengths of 20, 3, and 4 centimetres (about 8", 1 J", and 15"), and three negative, of 16, 10, and 6 centimetres (about 6|", 4", and 2|"). Epkens has united to the cubical chamber a cylindrical tube, at the farther end of which, where a micrometer is attached, the lamp is placed. At this end of the tube when necessary a positive lens can bo inser- ted, the focus of which should be a short distance from the flame ; so that a person looking into the mirror sees the whole lens illuminated, by which means a larger surface of the retina is lighted up. The whole apparatus is placed upon a stand, which is secured by a screw to the table, and on which the tube can be raised and lowered at will. At the micrometer end is a circular screen, covered with black stuff, and serving to exclude direct or superfluous light ; a.id, on the under part of the tube, and from a bar, there is suspended a curtain of oiled silk, that separates the faces of the patient and the observer. In order to give greater mobility to the instru- ment, Donders and Van Trigt made the tube to which the micrometer is atttiched turn in a ring, and the cubical chamber turn upon an axis. The lamp is separate from the instrument ; and for the examination of eyes with widely dilated pupils, Donders has lately added to the tube which holds the micrometer a cup-shaped dilatation, with a collecting lens of larger aperture than the one placed before the micrometer, in order to illuminate a larger portion of the fundus oculi. The disadvantages of this instrument are, that from the number and complexity of its parts, its consequent costliness, its somewhat alarming size and appearance, and its want of portability, it Is little suited to the wants of the practical surgeon. It 13 eminently fit for physiological research, and^ »or this purpose, especially, as it admits of mens- OPHTHALMOSCOPE, ggg uring the parts it exhibits, it cannot be too highly extolled For the purpose of taking measure- ments, the instrument is furnished with a micro- meter attached to the outer end of the cylinder and scarcely requiring explanation. The points of the micrometer, placed between the flame and the eye observed, are in proper accommodation clearly seen (in shadow) upon the retina. Their position may be changed by moving the tube which carries the micrometer, upon a tube within. Upon the latter is a graduated scale, showing the distance of the points from the crossing-point of the lines of direction of the observed eye. The points can be separated or approximated by a micrometer screw, which is furnished with a scale to show their dis- tance apart. Further, the cylinder with the micrometer revolves on the cylinder within, on its own axis ; so that the two points can be brought into any part of the field of vision. If n be the distance of the points asunder, so their distance from the anterior nodal-point of the observed eye, 15 millimetres the distance of its posterior nodal- point from its retina, and y the distance between the retinal images of the points of the micrometer, then y x 15 millimetres. By placing at the opening through which the observer looks, a tracing apparatus such as is used for a microscope, and marking the distance of the points across the vessels of the retina, it is possible to determine the exact size of these vessels, and of other structures of the fundus oculi. Tlie \Ophthalmoscope of S'dmann. — A little cylinder, that, as in Helmholtz's instrument, carries a convex (collecting) lens, is joined to a hollow cube, that turns on its horizontal axis, and has round openings in two of its opposites. Within, this cube contains a mirror, placed on a vertical axis. This mirror consists of a plate of silvered ailass, the foil being removed from a small elliptical portion in the centre. In front of one of the openings of the cube, is a little frame, open above, in which necessary lenses can be placed, and from' which they may be readily removed. Like^ Burow, Samann has found the revolvintr Rekoss's discs, to carry lenses, very convenient to handle. But a combination of two concaves on account of the stratum of air between them, does not give a perfectly exact image ; and if twelve concaves were inserted in a single disc, this would be too large, especially as it would be required to carry convex lenses also. Burow has, therefore, fixed his lenses in a straight slide, which, when' their use is required, can be moved up and down in a frame. The Ophthalmoscope of Meyerstein.—Not satis- fied with the working of his first ophthalmoscope which will be described hereafter, Meyerstein constructed a second instrument. It consists of a cup, which serves to screen the patient's eye from light, so that this ophthalmoscope can be used in any room in the day-time. Immediately in front of the cup is a perforated plana mirror, enclosed in a rectangular box, and fixed at nn angle of 45° with the axis of the instrument. The side of the box opposite to the reflecting surface of the mirror contains a collecting lens. On the opposite side of the box to the cup, is a second cup, which receives the eye of the observer, and cuts ofl'' false licht' or the light of the lamp. ' For more exact examination of the retina, the