VISION. 100-t Convulsions, " epilq->lic Jits'"-of olJtcrwiso heallhy or of paralysed parts.—Neither their character nor tiieir frequencj' is a guide as regards the nature of the lesion which may have given rise to defec- tive vision. If confined to one side, we may suspect the cause of impaired vision to lie near or at the corpus striatum. The fit, sometimes, is preceded by complete blindness, the latter being attributed to temporary anaamia of the retina from spasm of the coats of its blood-vessels. Hemiplegia is a frequent forerunner or com- panion of disturbances of vision. If the two appear simultaneouslj', they are attributed to apoplexy near or in the corpus striatum or thalamus opticus. If the hemiplegia precedes the amaurosis for a long time, then we may attribute the latter to secondary cerebral lesions, and to fresh apoplexy if it occurs suddenly. In amaurosis, with hemiplegia of the right side, and with loss of speech, both hemispheres have re- peatedly been found diseased. Amaurosis, when occurring on the same side as the hemiplegia, is attributed to embolism. Amau- rosis from inflammation of the optic discs of both eyes without anomalies of locomotion, is generally complicated with, or caused by, lesions of the cere- bellum or of the hemispheres. Ataxy of locomotion. — Of patients suffering from this anomaly, fourteen have come under ob- servation within the last four years. They were middle-aged persons, and complained at first of great general weakness, including that of the genital organs; of a sensation of "pins and needles" in the lower extremities preceding numbness, accompanied by a painful feeling of constriction of the chest. Then followed cramps in the feet, and trembling of the hands, especially when attempting to seize any object. Two mouths after the first symptoms of ataxy, vision became impaired, a mist " appearing before the eyes," which gradually got thicker, and rapidly reduced vision in some to perception of light, in others destroying it completely. The blood supply to the retina and choroid remained normal, but the optic disc rapidly became ansemic, and re- mained so even in the cases where the aciiteness of vision rose from to ^. The treatment of these cases by nitrate of silver has given favourable results. It is supposed to have restored the normal relation between the optic nerve-fibres and the nerve cells in the cor- pora quadrigemina. Ill the cases in which there was no perception of light, no effect was produced, while in those who could still read large letters, the acuteness of vision rapidly (within from four to ten days) in- creased from to i. After six weeks, all signs of tlie ataxy liad d'isappcared. The nitrate of silver is given twice daily, at first in doses of ^ of a grain, gradually increasing it to one grain. 'Tlie Causes of Amblyopia and of Amaurosis.— (1) Ocular (retinal, clioroidal, or in the optic nerve). {1) Extra-ocular (orbital). (3) Cere- bral, or spinal. In cerebral changes accompanied by great dis- turbance of the circulation within the head, as ob- served in rapidly growing tumors, and during meningitis, hypertemia of both the retina:, rupture of the blood-vessels, swelling of the optic discs, are anions the frequently observed ocular affections. In chronic cerebral changes, ansemia and atrophy of the optic nerves are the usual changes observed with the ophthalmoscope. The changes may be far away from the optic fibres, and yet through pressure impair their func- tions. There may be extensive disease of the hemispheres with perfect vision. Morbid changes of the right iiemisphere are more often complicated by amaurosis. Changes confined to one side of the brain may cause hemiopia, but never complete amaurosis, un- less the latter appears secondarily. Amixurosis, or Amhlyopia (ci) from various kinds of intercranial and cerebral tumors.—The usual seat of such tumors is tlie basis cranii, especially the sella turcica and the neighbourhood of the cerebellum. They produce loss of vision, either mechanicall}-, by pressure, impeding the functions of the optic nerves or the circulation; or by becoming compli- cated with inflammation of the optic nerves, with meningitis, &c. The latter complication frequently prevents our drawing conclusions from the nature of the impairment of vision as to the seat of the tumor. The most frequent changes observed with the ophthalmoscope in the course of cerebral tumors are—hyperfemia, or oedema, or inflamma- tion of the optic disc and retina, and anaemia, or anaemia with atrophy of the optic disc. Slight protrusion of the eyeball, with fulness of the veins about the eyelids, is an occasional complication of tumor at tlie sella turcica, or at other parts of the basis cranii. (6) From morbid changes at the base of the brain. —The most frequent is meningitis (tubercular, pyseraic, typhoid). In some cases the impairment of vision appears at the time of the meningitis ; in many, however, long after it has passed. Both optic nerves, or one, or only part of an optic nerve, may be affected. Amaurosis of both eyes in these cases is gene- rally complicated with paralysis of other cere- bral nerves. (c) Following apoplexy, softening, tuberculosis, abscess of the brain.—The lesion of vision is often complicated with paralysis of separate spinal nerves, or of other cerebral nerves with hemi- or paraplegia. Apoplexy is a frequent cause. It may appear simultaneously in the eye and brain. Monolateral hffimorrhage into the thalamus opticus causes hemi- opia. To produce blindness it must aftect both sides. Hasmorrhage into the chiasma may cause blindness. When occurring at other parts of the basis cranii it generally also affects the third nerve. (d) Amaurosis through constriction of both optic nerves, causing indentation, partial, or total de- struction, through the two arterial comuiunicantes posticas. . . (e) Amaurosis or Amblynpia follorving injuries, especially hlotvs or falls, causing concussion of the brain, pain in the head, fits, peculiar anomalies ot locomotion, frequently accompanying the impair- ment of vision. AU'hope of recovery of vision is lost, if once atrophy of the optic disc and reima has set in. • f „m if) Hereditary amaurosis or amblyopia, J lom incomplete development of the brain or eye, <»i- crophthalmus, hydrophthalmus {coloboma), or Jrm morbid changes appearing in the brain (liyd'O- cephalus), or eyes during growth or in adnwcM life,—One or several members of the same faniuy