376 OPHTHALMOSCOPE. iris, and nnt at all upon a more abundant reflection, in consequence of the deficiency of pigment, of the rays enterine through the pupil. It has been shown hy Bonders, that such eyes present the ordinary complete darkness of the interinr, as soon as they are protected by a screen having a small circular opening, through which light is admitted to the pupil Hlone, the general surface of the iris being in shadow. Lastly. Helmlioltz lias suggested the experi- mental proof fi.irnislied by taking "a small camera obscura (for exnmple, an artificial eye) well black- ened within, and having an opaque white surface, such as a piece of thiik drawing paper, placed in the po>itii>n to receive the image. The eye- piece of a microscope, with the drawing-paper substituted for the ocular glass, will usually answer tlie desired purpose, as its tube mostly corresponds exactly with the focal length of its objective. It follows that this objective will form upon the white paper clear images of surrounding objects ; and yet, if we attempt to look through the objective, the interior of the tube will appear absohitfly dark. We have in this an apparatus analogous to the eye, the objectis'e representing the cornea and crystalline lens, and the white paper representing the retina ; and we find in it the same complete interior darkness as in the eye itself, so long as the paper is accurately placed to receive clear images of external objects. But if the objective be removed from the tube, or if its distance from the paper be considerably varied, the bright whiteness of the latter becomes imme- diately visible to the spectator." Of the light reflected from the ocular back- ground, a portion returns through the dioptric media, and passes out of the eye. But, in conse- quence of the action of the refracting apparatus, and especially of the cornea and crystalline lens, the incident aiid emergent luminous cones coincide precisely ; insomuch that, if the eye be exactly accommodated for any luminous point, the rays leaving the organ will return to and be again united in that point itself. The object and its retinal image are in the position of conjugate foci, and the rays proceeding from either focus are remitted in the other ; so that every ray in its exit from the eye follows precisely the same course as in its entrance, and the image of the retinal image is formed only at the luminous object point. In order to perceive the returning rays, it is evident that the eye of the spectator must be in- terposed between the source of light and the eye that is illumiiuvted, which cannot be done without cutting off the illumination from the latter. It is just as little possible to perceive light from ihe eye of another person when the latter is exactl v accommodated for the pupil of the observer. For, under these circumstances, a perfectly dark image of the pupil of the observer will be formed on the retina of the eye that is observed. Conversely, the dioptric media of the latter will return an image ol this dark pmiion of the retina to the former, and the observer will, therefore, see nothing but the reflection of his own dark pupil. Under certain conditions, however, vre may see the fundus of the human eye shine with a reddish lustre. This is the case, if light, say from a lamp, is leflected with a glass plate into the observed eye ; part of the light returns to the glass plate and is reflected back to the lamp ; part passes through the glass plate and cnmes to a focus behind it. If we place our eye behind the gJass plate into the course of the rays returning through it from the eye, we see the pupil of the observed eye shine. Alter this principle was announced by Von Erlach, Professor H. Helmholtz, then of Konigs- i)erg, and since of Heidelberg, was the first to dis- cover the reason why the retina was not distinctly seen, and to find the means of rendering it visible. The problem was threefold : the observed eye must be sufficiently illuminated, the eye of the observer must be placed in the direction of the emerging rays, and these must themselves be changed from their convergence, and Trendered divergent or parallel. The solution ot the main difficulty was obtained, when in a darkened cham- ber the light of a lamp was allowed to fall on a well polished plate of glass in such a manner, that the rays reflfcted therefrom entered the eye to be observed. The observer placed himself on the iithi r side of the glass plate, and made the con- vergent rays divergent by a concave lens. The combination of such an illuminating appara- tus with suitable lenses forms an instnunent by which it is possihle clearly to see and examine the details of the background of the eve of another person. To this instrument Helmholtz gave the name of " Eye-mirror," or " Ophthalmoscope." Oplithalmoscdpes, loith reflectors formed hy paral- lel surfaces of glass. Helmholtz's Oi'Mhalmo- scope.—This instrument consists of reflecting glass plates, which form the hypoihenuse of a prismatic box, the section of which is a right-angled triangle. The other surfaces of this hollow prism are com- posed of metal, and in order that fhej' may absorb light as completely as possible they are lined with black velvet. The smaller of the two sides that contain the right angle is so connected with the basis of the instrument that it can turn freely on its optical axis ; and it has an opening corresponding to this axis. The glass plates are held together by a rectangular frame, which is secured by screws to the prismatic bo.x. In order, with the unsilvered mirror, to reflect half of the incident rays, we may employ either a single plate of glass, or a greater number, lying super- imposed upon one another. The necessary angle of incidence of the rays to be reflected is, for one plate 70°, for three plates 60°, and for four plates 56°. In the metallic framework of the instrument is an axis, on which two discs revolve, termed Re- koss's discs, each of which has five openings, and in eight out of the ten are placed a series of con- cave lenses, of from 6" to 13" focal length, the other two openings being empty. By turning the discs these openings can be brought one after another into the optical axis of the instrument, so that the observer, applying his eye to a basin-shaped eye- piece, may lonk through any of them, and also through the glass plates. In order that the discs may not change their position, they have indenta- tions on their margins to receive the ends of two springs. . In using this Ophthalmoscope the observer sits close in front of the patient, and places at his side a brightly burning lamp. An opaque screen js then so arranged that it shades the face of the patient. The observer first brings the mirror nearly into its right position before the patient's