UTERUS, formed by tlie tiiLerculnr matter still in a crude state, or in course of softening. These scrofulous ulcerations are almost always accompanied by con- siderable engorgement of the cervix uteri." On tiie other hand, under the microscope, the softened matter is found not to consist of the elements of tubercle, but of eiiithelial cells similar to those of the uterine mucous membrane, while the indurated callous structure which forms the base of the ulcer is formed ofa mixture of fibro-pl.istic and epider- moid materiiils. Robin says tliis kind of ulcer is to the uterus what lupus or cancroid ulcers are to the face. Lebert, Hannover, and Dr. Charles West support the testimony of Robin. The Corrudiny Ulcer of Dr. John Clarke, or rodent ulcer.—Opportunities for observing this form of ulcer on tlie cervix uteri are exceedingly rare. But the observations that have been made justify the conclusion that the disease, when affecting the uterus, is similar to the rodent ulcer of the face or other parts. Its aspect, rate and mode of progress are unlike those of cancer, while neither cancer-cells nor epithelium formations are present in the adjacent tissues. It begins at tiie mucous mem- brane covering the os uteri, involving the whole circumference of the os, and utterly destroying both it and the subjacent parts, but tliere is no thickening, hardness, or deposit of new matter in the vicinity. Unlike cancer, the rodent ulcer may I continue for years, without causing any very for- midable symptoms. _ The lymphatic glands of the pelvis, and espe- cially those which surround the uterus, are fre- quently the seat of cancerous extension. The invasion proceeds step by step, successively catch- ing the glands situated by the lumbar vertebrse, and following the course of the large vessels, which may be compressed or ulcerated. Sometimes the inguinal glands become cancerous. This is espe- cially the case when the disease has attacked the vagina and vulva. I have described two cases in which the glands in remote parts of the body were also affected. It may, however, have happened that, in these cases, the enlargement and indura- tion were due to iriitation from the alisorpiiou of the fluid element (the cancerous ichor) of cancer, and not to the actual spread of cancer-Ctlls. In forming the diuynosis of cancer, the speculum is commonly useless—except in the very earliest stage—and may be injurious. The tissues often bleed freely on the slightest touch of the finger ; and if the speculum is introduced greater injury is caused, and the effused blood obscures what might otherwise be seen. The finger by the vagiiui and rectum tells all that is necessary to establish the melancholy diagnosis. I believe the sign that most frequently arrests attention in the first place is hcciiiurrhuyc; and then, when we examine, we find the disease far advanced. In several cases the first thing to sugnest the presence of disease has been ha;mor- rhage on sexual intercourse, rain of a marked ch;iracter, even the stalibing, lancinating pain described as almost pathognomic of cancer, is often absent for a long time. It is rather a con- coniitiint of the later stages. The pains have a radiating character, starting as it were from the centre of the disease, iind shooting to the sacrum, vertebral column, loins, groins, and thighs. In the early stages, no particular od')Hr is per- ceived, but when ulceration has begun, an odour, CANCER OF. 0C9 penetrating and offensive, is almost certain to be emitted. It is so peculiar that frequently by- it the presence ofa cancerous patient in the room is made known. In advanced cancer the aspect of the patient is often enough to excite a strong suspicion of the nature of the disease. Emaciation is gene- ral, but not constant. The skin acquires a dirty straw tint, indicative of a profound alteration in the properties of the blood, and of impaired nutri- tion. It is true that a very similar tint is often seen in women who have long been draining from polypus or inversion of the uterus. But internal examination at once clears up the diagnosis. The alteration referred to is due to three causes : the influence of the cancerous cachexia, which, as Becquerel has shown, first destroys the globules, and afterwards diminishes the quantity of albumen; the htemorrhages, which very quickly diminish the globules ; the serous discharges. Thus the water of the blood increases ; the globules and the albu- men diminish. The cancerous cachexia is sooner or later followed by hectic or irritative fever. What is the dunUion of cancer of the uterus As the early stages so often escape detection, it is not easy to determine the total duration, it is probable that the stage before ulceration, of limi- tation to the cervix, may last for some months, even two or tliree years. When ulceration has begun, the downhill course is often rapid. But it: may be protracted for a year, or even two years, the disease being at times apparently suspended, feeding the eager sufferer with the hope that the treatment is working a cure. Cancer is not, indeed, absolutely incurable. The morbid mass may destroy and eliminate itself. Dr. Habit relates a case which is not altogether unique. {Monatssch: fur Gehurishmdc, 1862.) Cancerous matter united the uterus to the sur- rounding structures ; the vagina was filled with large granulations and fungous growths. Gra- dually all was replaced by firm cicatrix, and the uterus could no longer be felt. The Treatment.—The question of amputation has been amply discussed above by Cooper. It may still, after more recent experience in this country, be doubted whether a. permanent cure has been effected by this method. But there can be no doubt that by it, in favourable cases, suffering has been mitigated, tlie disease suspended, and life prolonged. Probably the disease will reappear and run its course in a year or less. But I have known a respite of two years and more to have been gained. The prospect is best in the case of cauliflower excrescence. Gooch urged removal by ligature, as giving the patient a chance of life ; and if failing, by the excrescence growing again, it does not render the case worse than it was before. Dr. Emmet, of New York(^)«c;'. Juurri. of Obst. 1869), says that where he has been able to ampu- tate in healthy tissue above the disease, he has known several cases where no return has occurred several years afterwards, but that as a rule the disease returns in four or six months. Dr. C. West gives a table of recorded cases of total extir- pation of tlie uterus on account of cancerous disease. In three cases only did the |.atient survive the operation ; in twenty-two death was the conse- quence. The amputation of cauliilowcr excrescence is best effected by the galvimic cautery. Caie is ic-