JOINTS, DISEASES OF. the disease described cannot be confounded with any other ; but tlie formation of an abscess external to the joint, yet close upon its capsule, may closely simulate disease of the articulation. Such cases have occurred, and have puzzled able surgeons : one in particular in a patient of Mr. Stanley's we would refer to. A large abscess formed external to the knee-joint of a young man, a slioeraaker, aged 22, who was well a fortnight before its appearance. It existed irregularly on either side of the joint ; the patella was not prominent, and the joint could be flexed and straightened without any assistance, or any pain. The position of the leg was natural, lying on its posterior surface, and not on its side. Flexion and extension had been perfect throughout the disease ; fluctuation was very distinct, and it did not occupy the usual situation of the fluid of synovitis. It was looked upon as an exceptional case, and four gentlemen believed the matter proceeded from the interior of the joint, whilst three pronounced it outside. An exploratory opening was made and a little pus let out ; a free incision was now made bv Mr. Stanley, and the abscess evacuated itself, and was found to be wholly external to the articulation. {The Lancet, voi. ii. 1856, p. 162.) The absence of serious con- stitutional disturbance, the irregularity of the swelling, greater on one side than the other, its extension over bony points, as the patella or olecranon, the superficial character of the fluctua- tion, the absence of all rigidity about the joint, and of other severe local symptoms, such as pain, starting, looseness, or grating, and more par- ticularly the occurrence of easy flexion, as in the above case, will enable the surgeon to effect a correct diagnosis. , In the Pathology of arthritis, when acute, such appearances are noticed as might be anticipated from the nature of the inflammation: thus the car- tilages will be found in a state of ulceration and erosion, in disseminated patches ; the bone is ex- posed and f.mnd to be rough and vascu'ar. What cartilage is left is soft, inelastic, opaque, and thick- ened, and can be readily detached from the rough and grating subjacent bone. The synovial mem- brane is generally thicker than natural, and very vascular, the latter condition being more distinct about those parts where the erosions and grooves in the cartilage are deepest, and the membrane often assumes a fringed or dentated appearance. Ab.ni the circumference and other parts of the jo nt masses of plastic matter are deposited underneath, and upon the synovial membrane ; these masses are smooth and semi-transparent, possessing a somewhat fatty or gelatinous look ; the ligaments are relaxed vascular, and softened, and the interior of the joint is filled with thin, flaky, and ligl>V'=°'°"''f J,'!: Tlie capsule and the various areolar and other surrounding structures arc thickened, anf >imi- tiated witlf pus, or clogged with the -me kmd of plastic matter that is seen in the interior of the omt The articular end of the bone is '="""rged, soft, and vascular ; and in strumous cases may be the scat of tuberculous infiltration. {Enohsen op. at^) As the principal changes in arthritis arc ound to take place in the cartilages, we F"' « « quiring into the nature of these ; but it " ■'.} ''^ « be mentioned that the various changes which a,e noticed iu-them are not always the result ot m- place independent of that process. This is believed sometimes to arise from disuse- of a joint. In old people, again, on the articular ends of the bones a porcellaneous or ivory-like deposit is commonly met with, which allows motion, associated with stiffness and pain. Mr. Quekett has shown this porcellaneous deposit to be of two kinds: one consisting of unorganised earthy matter, the other of true bone, the Haversian canals being filled with phosphate of lime. Nature of the changes in cartilage.—TVa conflict- ing opinions which have long prevailed upon this subject, constitute the chief reason of the difficulty in classifying many of the diseases of joints The doctrine 'held by many persons, that cartilage is extra-vascular, and therefore that the changes which take place in it are secondary to disease m the synovial membrane or bone, is disproved by the re- searches of many of our most accurate and careful observers. We therefore adopt the conclusion ot Mr. Erichsen, that disease of cartilage may arise in three ways: 1, through the medium of the syno- vial menibrane; 2, through the medium of the subjacent bone; and 3. by means of changes taking place in the cartilage itsel. The correct- ness of this will he shown by the observations which now follow:—] •.• r 1 Disease of cartilage through the medium ot the synovial membrane.—WVxht acknowledging that ulceration of cartilage proceeds from disease in the subjacent bone, extending to the under surface of the cartilage, and that it is occasionally a primary affection independent of other textures of the joint, Mr. Aston Key was led to believe, from the examination of many diseased joints, and the history of the cases, that inflammation ol the synovial membrane is the most frequent cause of ulceration of the cartilage. After nolicnig the symptoms of the acute, chronic, and subacute forms of svnovii^ inflammation, as a cause of ulceration of cartilage, he describes the different degrees of the latter as observed on opening the joint. His state- ment agrees with that of Cruveilhier, in represen ing the inner part of the knee-joint as usually exhibiting the most extensive ulceration, " on account of the oblique bearing of the femur, and ■t^'^X'S of unequal pressure on the inner part of the head of the tibia. We therefore find the inner sem.-lunar cartilage more often destroyed than the outer, and a rre^onding destruction of the cartilage cove - hig the inner condvle of the f.mur, and inner par 7tl e head of the tibia." Of the patella, the firs part that ulcerates is commonly the margin ot he cartilage, where the synovial membrane is reflected fnm, it "At this point sulci, of difterent dep hs ue formed, which cannot be always distinguished until the thickened edge of the synovial membrane is raised. The ulcerated surface sometimes ex- hibits parallel vascular lines, verging towards the centre, and having their origin from ^ membrane. The synovial membrane at tli s pait, if the vessels are iell filled with fine injection, appears highly vascular, and fnnged or villou., li^'c a mucous niembiaiie. This i->-<=Xl If "e laiity is particularly noticeable at the ejg^ ° ^ membrane, and in those portions o J>e J"' f ^ marc^in that correspond to the ulcerated '^'^^^ the cartilage; the other parts of the synovial mem- l u e havf. their vascularity but slightly increa^ed^ This highly vascular f-ge ci^ J-^^- n;tic;dr;hem';;e^ ;;t always the result 1 ^^^^SsJ^^u^a ^ and will be found in flammation, for erosion and absorption may take j newlj-organised suDSia ,