ORTHOPiEDIC SURGERY. 403 tne be8t, one of the chief being that the semi- paralysed tongue is very likely to act as an effec- tual plug to the windpipe, if artificial respiration is carried on, whilst the patient remains supine. (Marshall Hall on Drowning. Churchill.), Jilec- tricity may be used to arouse the circulation, and then by degrees small cups of strong coftee, with or without a little brandy occasionally, tea, &c Ammonia and caffeine may be given in small and repeated doses, or injected subcutaneously. The frequent application of cold water to the hands, face and head, and chest, to be continued as long as the respiration shows a tendency to stagnation.] (Charles Hunter.) [Bibliography.—Hi>i)ocra<ej, De Vict. Rat. lib- ii. p. 357, ed. Foes. Jones' Mysteries of Opium Re- vealed, 1770. A new Medical Dictionary, vol. ii. 1809. Elements of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, by Pereira, vol. ii. 3rd edition, 1853. Pliny, Hist. Nat. lib. XX. cap. 76, ed. Valp. Pharm. Journ. vol. xi. p. 205 et passim. Journ. de Pharm. vols. xiii. xxi. xxiv. &c. Orfila. Toxicol. G^n. Journ. de Chim. M^d. ix. X. &c. Christison on Poisons. Crumpe's Inquiry into the Nature and Prop, of Opium, p. 33, 1793. Phys. by£(iZjr, vol. i. p. 630. jBariier, Traitfe £le'm. de Mat. M^d. vol. ii. Thompson, Element. Mat. et Therap. On the Modus Operandi of Opium, by Ward, vols. vii. viii. andix. of the Lond. Med. and Phys. Journ. 1799. 0'Shaughnessy on the Prep, of Indian Hemp, 1839. Latham on the use of O. in Fevers, Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. x. Holland, Med. Notes and Reflect. 1840. Vr. Young onOpium, p. 169,Lond. 1755. Edwards, De I'lnfl. des Ageiis Physiq. 1824. Curling, Treatise on Tetanus, p. 151, 1836. Prout, Inq. into the Treat, of Diabetes, p. 74,1825. DeQuincy, Confessions of an Enslish Opium Eater. Opium et ses Alcaloides, par CI. Bernard, Archiv. G^n^ral. de M^d. 1864. Ozanam, surl'Action des Alcaloides de I'Opium, ibid. 1864. Anstie on Stimulants and Nar- cotics, Lond. 1864, p. 114 &c. Charles Hunter on the Speedy Relief of Pain by the Hypodermic Method, 1865. Chas. Line, Etudes sur la Narc^ine, 1865. Bois, sur la M^thode des Injections sous cutan^es, Paris 1864. La M^thode Hypodermique, parJoussei de Bellesme, 1865. Ruppaner on Hypodermic Injec- tions, 1865. Broion-Sequard, on Functional Nervous Afl'ections, Lancet, March 10, 18R6.] [ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. Orthopeedy, a term which appears to have been first used by M. Andry, Dean of the Medical Faculty of Paris, who in the year 1741 published at Paris a work in two volumes on " Orthopffidy ; or, the Art of Preventing and Correcting the Deformities of the Body." He derives the terra from opQls, straight, and iraiShs, genitive of Trais, a child ; others, however, derive it from hpObs and trovs, or foot, but as the practice ■which it represents is by no means limited to the cure of deformities of the feet, there appears to be sufficient reason for retaining the former definition. Onhopjedic Surgery has for its objects the scientific treatment of deformities, congenital and non-congenital, whether affecting the feet, hands, spine, neck, eyes (as in squinting), knees, hips, or other portions of the body. Many of the af- fections whicii the term is thus made to include are more intimately allied than at first sight might appear, and not uiifrequently their mutual de- pendence upon each other may be traced. Having frequently the same origin, depending upon the same laws, and affecting structures physiologically similar, they will be found to be amenable to the same principles of treatment. For a detailed description of some of the more important subjects included in Ortiiopredic Surgery, seearticles Talipks ;—Spink, Curvature op ; —Spine, Disease of. The origin and development of Orthoptedic Surgery is but a portion of the general history of the progress of pathology and scientific surgery, in which it forms an important part. The treatment of deformities was limited to mechanical means, and was essentially conducted by the instrument-makers, and a class of practising empirics previous to the introduction into this country of subcutaneous tenotomy, in the year 1836, by Mr. Whipple, of Plymouth. In the following year, 1837, Dr. Little first divided the tendo-Achillis in London, and introduced the prin- ciples recommended by Stromeyer in the treatment of clubfoot. This led, in the year 1838, to the establishment in London of the Royal Orthopaedic Hospital, and subsequently several other similar institutions. There can be no doubt that Orthopsedic Surgery is mainly indebted for its existence, as a branch or department of practice, to the discovery of sub- cutaneous tenotomy, an operation which was per- fected by Stromeyer, and performed by him in the year 1831; although he freely admits that, in the performance of this operation, he was guided by the principles laid down by Delpech in his work L'Orthomorphie (-1829). Delpech first divided the tendo-Achillis in the year 1816. The operation, however, was not sub- cutaneous, the limb being transfixed with a common scalpel, and the wound on either side of the tendon an inch in length. Serious inflammation followed, and Delpech had not repeated the operation when he published his work in 1829. By the employment of subcutaneous tenotomy, as now perfected, and rendered free from all risk of local inflammation, and from any danger to the patient, the surgeon is enabled to treat successfully the more severe cases of deformity which were previously incurable—not only the severe cases of clubfoot and wryneck, but especially contractions of the knee-joint, elbow, fingers, and toes; and in the latter class of deformities, many fingers and toes, which formerly would have been amputated, are not only restored in form, but also in usefulness, free motion existing when contraction has been removed. In severe cases of contraction of the knee-joint, also, useful motion is frequently restored. Orthopffidy, therefore, embraces a large field of practice :—tlie removal of congenital deformities, as well as those acquired from disease or injury— the latter, whether resulting merely from weakness of bones, ligaments, or muscles ; or from spasmodic and paralytic affections, which frequently give rise to severe contractions and deformities, Asa general rule in the treatment of deformities, it is necessary to combine with tenotomy the employ- ment of instruments and mechanical supports ; and therefore the scientific construction and adaptation of instruments is an important department of study, in which great advance has been made of late years, more especially in the construction of light and at the same time powerful instruments used in the treatment of lateral curvature of the spine ; and also the instruments at present in use for the treatment of wryneck, contracted hip, and con- tracted fingers, are especially worthy of mention. By the use of these improved instruments, the necessity for operating in many cases of severe deformity has been done away with, especially in contractions of the knee-joint when occurring in young people; and in these cases it has been found the contraction may generally be cured by I) D 2