VENEREAL DISEASE. .915 sides; l)ut first on that side which is next to the exttrnal siirl'ace. It was Mr. Huiitei's belief, how- ever, that the susceptibility of particular bones did not altogether depend upon their nearness to the skin, but upon this circumstance and their hardness tojrether. The foregoing account by no means agrees with the results of modern in(iuiries into the nature of the venereal disease; for unless mercury be given, it appears that the bones are very seldom affected by it. Thus, in the cases which were treated by }>lv. Rose without mercury, he observes that " the constitutional symptoms were evidoitly not such as could be regarded as venereal, if we give credit to the commonly received ideas on the subject. Caries of the bones, and some of the least equivo- cal symptoms, did not occur. In no instance was there that uniform progress with unrelenting fury, from one order of symptoms and parts affected to another, which is considered as an essential cha- racteristic of true syphilis." ( Med. Chir. Trans. vol. viii. p. 4-2'i.) We learn also from Mr. Guthrie that the bones were not affected in any of the cases cured entirely without mercury in the York Hos- pital, though there were several other cases ad- mitted " in which a few mercurial pills had been tiiken, and the mouth not affected, and in which the primary symptoms were followed bv eruptions, both papular and scaly, by ulcers in the throat, by nodes, and, in one case, by inflammation of the periosteum covering the bones of the nose, and ulceration of the septum nasi. Mercury neverthe- less was resorted to for its cure." (Vol. cit. p. SbO.) The late Sir Patrick M-Gregor, howeverj informed me of one or two cases in which a node took place, though no mercury had been used. [The editor has seen several cases of caries of bone, combined «ith other tertiary symptoms, where no mercury had been previously taken. In one instance a child was born with nodes, the mother havmg never taken mercury, although she laboured under caries of the palate, and a small communi- cation existed between the mouth and nostrils, ad- mittmg a director to pass between the two cavities. Another similar case occurred of caries and fistu- lous communication between the mouth and nostrils in a lady whose husband was diseased. The lady had never taken mercury; after two or three abor- tions she again became pregnant, and, under a course of mercury, gave birth to a healthy child. In the foil >wing well-marked instance, the editor was consulted by Dr. Weber. A gentleman had suffered for years from nodes and severe pains in the tibia: and bones of the fore arm, without syphilis being suspected as the cause of the symp toms. When the nature of the complaint was ex- plained to him, he recollected not only having had i a small sore on the genitals, which healed without I treatment, but also a rash which did not inconve- I nience him much, and disappeared in a month or six weeks, and for which he took no medicine, not t thinkingitof any consequence. A detailed account ' of this case, written by the patient himself, is in the possession of the editor.] [n the cases treated without mercury, under the superintendence ot Dr. Hennen, this gentle- man did not see "a single one w luhich the hones of the nose were afecled; some cases of pe- riostitis, and of pains and swellings of the hones of the cranium and extremities, were met with; but except in two, he never remarked any nodes which VlJI.. 11. could be regarded as unequivocally syphilitic." Oiie of these yielded to blisters and sarsapariila; the other, after resisting guaiacum and sudorifics, was dispersed by mercury. {On Miliiary Surgery, 2nd ed. p. 581.) Dr. Hennen's statement on this subject would have been more satisfactory had it comprised his opinion of the characters of an unequivocally syphilitic node. On the whole, it appears tolerably certain that mercury, especially when employed unmercifully, and even when employed in moderation, if the patient exposes himself to damp and cold, tends to promote the frer|uency of nndes, as a sequel of the venereal disease; though, as the long and abundant use of the same mineral does not cause the same consequence after other complaints, and venereal ulcers, treated altogether without mercury, rarely lead to nodes, it would seem as if these swellings were not unfrequently the product of the combined action of syphilis and mercury together. The infre- quency of nodes in the strictly non-mercurial practice is one of the most important facts yet established in its favour, and it is curious to find, from some quotations made by Dr. Hennen, that it was well known in former days. Fal- lopius, in his 96th chap, De Ossium Currup- Hone, speaking of the loss of the bones of the nose and palate, says, " et sciatis quod non in omni inveterate gallico hoc tit, sed ta7itum in illis, in quibus inuncUo facta est cum hydrargyro." And Fernelius, in speaking of the injurious effects of mercury, observes, "recidiva raro similis est ra- dici neque iisdem symptomatibas exercet, sed fere distillatione, arthritide, tophis, vel ossium carie." {Aphrodisiacits, vol. iii. p. 146.) And Palmarius, ill considering the affection of the bones, as Dr. Hennen has noticed, uses, the following remarkable words: "Sed hoc iis duntaxat contingit, qui olim a lue venerea hydrargyrosi vindica,ti putaren- tur, non qui decocto guaiacino et alexipharmaco curati fuissent." {De Morb. Contagiosis, cap. vii. lib. ii. p. 124. Parisiis, 1578.) Dr. Hennen expresses his own conviction, in which I entirely agree, that the carious affections of the bones, which are so common in persons treated by long mercurial courses, proceed not from the disease, but from the remedy rapidly and irregularly thrown in while periostitis exists; and he has not seen a single case of carious bone in the militarj' hospitals since the non-mercurial treatment was adopted, e.rcept where inemtry had formerly been used. {On Miliiary Surgery, 2nd ed. pp. 505, 506.) Nor will the results of modern experience and inquiries, made on a very extensive and impartial scale, allow us to consider the venereal disease as regularly and unavoidably leading to any se- condary symptoms, even though no medicine at all be employed for their prevention. This is fully exemplified in the official reports of the army hospitals. The particulars of 5,000 cases, spoken of by S r James M'Grigor and Sir W. Franklin, lead to the opinion, " that the frequency or rarity of secondary symptoms would seem to depend on circumstances not yet sufficiently understood or explained, although the following fact would tend to the belief, either that the constitutions of the men or the mode of conducting the treatment without mercury, are the causes that possess the greatest influence in their production. In on,, regiment, four secondary cases out of twenty-four treated without mercury, supervened." In another a P