a small circle; a curve, it is almost unnecesBuy to add, in which it is impossible to use it. But on proceeding to pass it the stilet is removed, the upper part or handle of the catheter is bent baclc- wards, and the instrument possesses a form which enables it in most cases easily to ride over any obstacle at the neck of the bladder, without causing injury or drawing blood, as in these circumstances is sometimes the result of the silver instrument. But in some exceptional, and particularly in greatly advanced cases, the long prostatic silver catheter, with a large and prolonged curve, is the best and, indeed, a necessary instrument. It is not very frequently necessary to use the long prostatic cathe- ter; most cases of prostatic retention are readily relieved by a No. 9 or 10 of ordinary form and length; it should be warmed and oiled before using, and its point kept along the upper aspect of the urethra during its passage towards the bladder, and its handle well depressed to avoid obstruction at the neck of the bladder; and if it is consider- able the introduction of left index finger into the rectum sometimes aids the operator to carry the beak of the catheter over the tumor at this point. Generally speaking, it will be necessary in these cases to pass the instrument two, three, or more times daily afterwards for some time; and it is of great importance to discover the kind and form of catheter which causes least pain and disturbance to the patient. While in many cases the well- curved gum catheter answers the purpose best, it is equally certain that the straight but very flexible instrument of the French goes more easily than any other. Retention may occur from over-disten- sion of the bladder, from atony, and from true paralysis, no change in the prostate gland e-xisting. The catheter need not have any special form; an ordinary gum-elastic instrument, of small -but sharp curve, is the preferable kind as a rule. Retention may be occasioned by rupture of the urethra, as after a severe blow on the perineum, by fracture of the pelvis, &c. The one important point is, to be exceedingly careful on the first in- troduction of the instrument. If the true course is not hit at the first trial, it is rare indeed that the surgeon succeeds. Once let the catheter pene- trate far through the breach, among the lacerated tissues outside the urethra and the right passage is more difficult to find. The best plan is to take a silver catheter, about No. 9 in size, and pass very lightly and gently in the known direction of the canal ; it is the best chance of succeeding, and if it does so must be securely tied in. If any ob- •struction to the point is felt, force is sure to be prejudicial, for the certainty is obtained that a lacerated part is encountered ; the point of the cathi-ter must be withdrawn, and gently directed on the opposite side, in hope of finding a portion of unbroken urethral mucous membrane by which to slide on the instrument into the urethra. If there is no success, the treatment for extravasation of urine may be necessary ; generally, there is much ha:morrhage in such a case among the tissues of the perineum, and urine may soon follow the track of the blood and do infinite mischief, if not evacuated by incisions there.] Ilmry Tliompson. UTERUS, ANTEFLEXION AND ANTE- VKRSION OF. (See Uterus, RETiioFi.is.xiuN OP.) UTERUS, CANCER OF. CCS (See Utehus, UTERUS, ATROPHY OF. Pkolapsus op.) UTERUS, CANCER OF. The disease gene- rally first attacks the cervix, and especially the posterior lip or margin of the os tincae. In the be- ginning the symptoms are attended with ambi- guity, and cannot be discriminated with any de- gree of certainty from those arising from various other causes productive of irritation of the womb. Most frequently the disease is ushered in by irre- gularity of menstruation, a sauious bloody dis- charge, or a profuse leucorrhcea ; together with an annoying sensation of tension, weight, and drag- ging pains in the lumbar and hypogastric regions, extending frequently to different points of the pel- vis and hip ; frequent desire to make water; te- nesmus ; and lancinating pain in the cervix uteri. On examination, the portion of it towards the va- gina is perceived to be either hardened at every point, or indurated in some places and softened in others. The os tincse is likewise indented, irre- gular, and half open. When pressure is made with the finger, a sauious bloody matter is dis- charged. The disease may continue in this state for several months, or even years ; but, at length, the symptoms become more aggravated ; the darting pains, which now affect also the groins and thighs, occur with increased violence ; and the discharge becomes exceedingly ichorous and fetid, blended with sloughy matter and clotted blood. Some- times profuse haemorrhages come on. The consti- tutional impairment becomes more and more serious, and is accompanied by the carcinomatous hectic, and the pallid sallow appearance of the countenance so characteristic of organic disease. Uiimately death takes place, either suddenlj', from profuse bleeding, or, as more usually happens, the patient dies hectic, in a state of horrible suftering. If, in this advanced form of the disease, a post mortem examination is instituted, the portion of the uterus connected with the vagina is found ul- cerated, or more or less destroyed, and fungi, or indurated masses, extend from this point within the cervix. The uterus, or upper portion of the vagina is frequently much hardened ; and the ul- ceration may even be continued into the rectum and bladder, so as to form new communications between one or even both these viscera and the vagina, and account for the involuntary discharge of urine and fasces by the latter passage. When the disease commences in the cavity of the uterus, the cervix remains for a long while unaffected, while the body of the womb enlarges m every direction, and may attain considerable magnitude. In such a case the swelling is some- times distinctly perceptible through the parietes of the hypogastrium. Cancer of the uterus may originate at any pe- riod^after puberty (Chelius, Handb. der Chir. b. ii. s. 630) ; but the time of life between the ages of 40 and 50 is that in which its commencement is most common. [A specimen of cancer affecting the uterus and vagina in an infant nine months old was exhibited l)y Mr. Heckl'ord, surgeon to the East London Children's Hospital, to the Ob- stetrical Society (see Oljstctrical Tiansaclioiis, IflO'fi).] I have attended not less than three women' wliu died under the ago of 30, from the effects of cancer of the womb. Cruveilhier observes, that from the age of 35 to that of 50 is the prin-