£98 SKIN, DISEASES OF. tincture of the perchloride of iron, while the best local applications are flour and the solution of nitrate of silver, as recommended by Iligginbot- tom. Urticaria in an acute form requires the treatment suitable to erythema, and roseola, which runs a specific course, is to be managed by the aid of salines, after a thorough clearance of the primce vice. In urticaria ab ingestis, vomiting is to be promoted, and, in its chronic forms, the disorder requires the tonic influence of bitters, with the mineral acids, of quinine, and, in some instances, of arsenic. The local irritation is best relieved by spongings with hot water, either simple or containing ammonia or vinegar. Of the bullous affections herpes zoster is local and runs a specific course; hence the treatment must be directed to the regulation of temperature and the prevention of friction. Dredging with flour sometimes answers admirably, and covering up with cotton wool secured by a bandage, or a moderately thick coating of the benzoated oint- ment of oxide of zinc. A solution of nitrate of silver, when applied early, sometimes acts the part of an ectrotic, and neuralgic pains must be combated by quinine or arsenic, and by the local application of morphia, belladonna, or aconite. Mi- liaria is a clinical debility, for which the appro- priate remedies are tonics, such as cinchona with sulphuric acid, tepid baths with the use of the juniper tar or carbolic acid soap, or spongings with a hot solution of ammonia or vinegar. Pem- phigus, as a disease of debility, requires a tonic course of treatment, and the external use of oxide of zinc or peruvian bark powder, after previously puncturing and emptying the bullae. The f uruncular affections are diseases of asthe- nia, and call for a tonic regimen, and local aid, in the first place to retard the advance of the morbid process, and secondly to relieve tension and give exit to the sphacelated fibrous tissue and pus. Boils and anthrax may often be retarded by the local application of liquor plumbi, by a solution of nitrate of silver or tincture of iodine; but at a later period they must be opened either with the knife or potassa fusa, and afterwards dressed with the yellow basilicon ointment. Anthrax may also be treated with success by graduated pressure. Nervous affections must also he treated with the ■view of invigorating the nervous system, constitu- tionally and locally, by means of sedatives and stimulants; among the internal remedies are qui- nine, strychnine, iron, arsenic and cod-liver oil, while the local sedatives are aconite, belladonna and hydrocyanic acid,aud the local stimulants, chlo- roform, tincture of tar, tincture of iodine, and the whole family of antipruriginous applications. Other remedies are the shower-bath, cold douche, hot-air bath, sulphur vapour bath, and stimulant soaps, particularly the juniper tar soap and carbolic acid Boap. Pruritus of a part, as of the anus and vulva, is not uncommonly the result of a reflex irritation derived from some internal organ in a morbid condition, as of a hajmorrhoida.l congestion of the rectum or vagina, or of an uterine congestion, in which case, while we do our best to alleviate the apparent evil, we must at the same time direct our attention to the exciting cause of tiuit evil. Vascular affections, for example, liypertrophy of the ^mall veins and of the capillaries, may require the employment of pressure with or without as- tringent applications, the use of a caustic, or of tho knife. Isolated venules, such as are often met with in association with hypertrophy of the skin of the nose, may be cured by the application of a fine point of potassa fusa, to coagulate the stream of blood and produce obliteration of the vessel. The same procedure is applicable to the smaller nievi in which a single vessel only is implicated as a uEevus araneus, and a similar principle, namely that of setting up inflammation in the abnormal tissues, and thereby bringing about obliteration of the vascular structure, is the basis of the treatment of every form of vascular njevus; to this end are the inoculation with vaccine lymph, the injections with astringent and stimulant fluids, and the break- ing up of the tissue by means of a fine tenotomy knife. In infants, vascular ntevi left to themselves will often get well spontaneously; at other times it may be necessary to remove them by ligature, the ligature passing beneath their base being the best adapted for that purpose. The hmmodyscrasio affections are essentially as- thenic in their nature, diseases of cachexia; some- times induced by bad air, bad food, and insufficient clothing; sometimes by sameness of an innutritions food, as in the case of sea scurvy; and sometimes by an idiopathic depression of vitality depending on feebleness of constitution, and producing the same physical eff'ects as the causes above stated; a cachexia in which the blood loses its plastic and its nutritive properties, and the capillary vessels and the tissues their tone and their powers of re- sistance. Sometimes, as in purpura febrilis, there are feverish symptoms, but depending on irrita- bility of system and weakened vitality, and bearing only the mildest form of antiphlogistic treatment, conjoined wiih tonic remedies. The constitutional treatment of purpura calls for the use of the sesqui- carbonate of ammonia, with or without cinchona or calumba in the acute period, and in the chronic forms, of the mineral acids, and especially sulphuric, with liquor cinchonse or quinine, the citrate of quinine and iron, and cod-liver oil. In those forms of the complaint which originate in bad or insufli- cient food, and general perversion of the laws of hygiene, the treatment is obvious, good food, proper clothing, and proper ventilation. Sea scurvy may be checked and even prevented by the addition of lemon-juice and potatoes to the ordinary diet. The local treatment of purpura must consist in the use of those means which harden and give tone to the skin; such are, the use of soap with cold ablutions, the shower bath, and sponging the surface with the sesquicarbonate of ammonia lotion. In pur- pura urticans it may be necessary to prescribe the juniper tar liniment or lotion, or a lotion of hy- drocyanic acid. Developmental and nutritive affections originating out of deficient vital power, necessarily deraajid the aid of a tonic treatment and regimen, and especially the adoption of nutritive tonic remedies, such as arsenic. On the same principle the local treatment must consist of baths, soaps, and mild stimulants applied to the skin. Tepid water w;th abundance of soap speedily removes all epidermic and sebaceous sordes and. concretion from the skin, and a softening oleaginous pomade or gly- cerine paste, prevents their renewal, while the atmosphere and friction perform the part of loc.-il tonics. The same plan of treatment is applicable to cachex ia cutis, with the addition of the stimu-