30 INFLAMMATION niation with free exudation in general affords its certain degree of relief to tlie part : it conveys away from it a great part of tlie noxious matter with which it is clogged, and the part, therefore, appears comparatively to suffer much less than that which is the seat of parenchymatous disease." (Virchow, CellularFath.,^. 392-4.) . First in the category of parenchymatous mllam- mation, not only hecause in it the process is trace- ahle in all its stages, hut also because it was the first to he recognised and traced out hy Dr. Ked- fern, is inflammation of articular cartilages. In fact, the best illustrations of the process would naturally be expected in the least vascular tissues In the ulceration of cartilage Dr. Redfern found that the first departure from health (at the point of cartilao-e most distant from the ulcer) consists m an enlargement of the cells to five or six times their natural size. At the same time, they become irregular in their distribution in the cartilage : their nuclei divide so that, according to their size, they contain a smaller or greater brood of new cells. As they advance towards the surface, they enlarge stiU more, till the original cell-wall disappears. And in the larger cells, the nuclei or new ce Is, gradu- ally degenerate into the form of pus cells, the re- maining contents of the cell becoming granular. At a later stage still, the whole cell and its contents become nothing more than a mass ot glistening granules, or large bright drops more or less scattered, which are readily recognisable as fa slobules. Meanwhile "thehyaline (or mtercelkilar) lubstance splits into bands and fibres and is si^se- quently disintegrated, and removed from the part (Redfern on Abnormal Nutrition in Articular Cai- tilages, in Edinburgh Monthly Journal of mdical Science, 1849, p. 967, et seq.) R^df"-'^/^;"^; that so long as cartilage alone was affected no pus could be produced. But it appears that the de- generated cartilage cells may themselves become pus cells. (See a paper by Professor Weber, in Virchow s ArcMven, vol. xm.) , . n Similar changes are observed m the inflamed cornea, changes which have been followed out e pecially b/ Strube and His An admirable example of the kind is mentioned by Virchow ; a specimen from a case of keratitis. If, says he " in this case we follow the process with a higher power, we discoyer, what may easily be shown to be the case in every form of keratitis, that the_ change is essentially seated in the corpuscles o cells of the cornea, and that, in VroVO^^'^^ ^t Z approach the clouded spot either from without or within, the little narrow cells continually become larger and more cloudy. At last we find them presenting almost the appearance of Baccula ed canals or tubes. Whilst this enlargement of the elements, this acute hypertrophy, it you will, is S on the contents of the cells are at the same W becoming more cloudy, and it is this cloudi- ness of the contents which i"^ opacity of the whole coat, for the proP" ha^^ substance appears to be altogether ^^^^Mcd^ This cloudiness of the contents is in part occasioned by particles which are of a fatty nature, so t , t the process seems to have begun to »ss'm Jhc cMi racter of a degenerative disease:' {Cellular J ''°So^; h^td inflammation of tendon, the liest changes arc seen to be overgrowth and opacitj of the normally transparent so-called nuclei tendon. And these bodies may be seen gradually to assume varied forms of degeneration, to that ot genuine pus. A precisely similar process, viz. the generation of pus from the natural elements of the textures themselves by " proliferation," or excessive en- do<renv within the cells of the part, and their sub- sequent degeneration, has been traced in mucous membranes. Dr. Burckhart has described mi- nutely the stages of the process in the mucous membrane of the bladder, showing that the deeper cells, having their origin in the dermis, divide, and multiply, and gradually degenerating, are "1 i- mately cast off as pus cells. (See Burckhart s paper in Virchow's Archiven, vol. xvii.; and a review of it in Br. and For. Med. Revieic, \P.o9.) And Virchow well traces the process in various membranes. " If," he says, " we investigate the history of suppuration, we immediately discover that we must distinguish two different modes of pus formation, according as pus proceeds from epithelium, or from connective tissues. W he_ther there are also forms of suppuration proceedmg from a tissue of the third class, from muscles, nerves, vessels, &c., is at least doubtful. _ As long as the pus is formed out of epithelium, it is naturally pro- duced without any considerable loss of substance, and without ulceration. But this is in every in- stance the case when pns is produced in connective tissue Ftis is not the dissolving, but the dissolved, ie. the transformed tissue. If you follow the de- velopment of pus upon the skin, when the process is unaccompanied by ulceration, you will constantly see that the suppuration proceeds from the re.e Malpiffhi. It consists in a growth and develop- ment of new cells in this part of the cuticle. In proportion as these cells proliferate, a separation of the harder layers of the epidermis ensues, and they are lifted up in the form of a vesicle or pustule In the deeper layers we may watch how tlie cellulai elements, which originally have only single nuclei divide, how the nuclei become more abundant, and single cells have their places taken by severa, which in their turn again provide themselves witli dividing nuclei. Precisely the same is the case with mucous membranes. A mucofls menibrane is all the more in a condition to produce pus withou. ulceration; the more completely the epithelium it nosses es is stratified. The intestinal^ mucous S ane, especially that of the small intes me. ever produces pus without ulceration; while on other raucous membranes, as, for ex- ample, on that of the urethra, we see enormous ouantities of pus secreted, as m gonorrhrea, without even the slightest ulceration being present on the <;iirfice This depends essentially upon the pre- sence of several strata of cells, the upper fornnng a kind of protection to the deeper ones, of which the proliferation is thus for a time secured. K, now, pus, mucus, and epithelial cells he compared with one another, it appears that there certainly does exist a series of transitional forms, or intermediate .tages, between pus corpuscles and the ordrnary epithelial structufes. Pus, mucus, '^"d ^pUhelial cells are therefore pathologically ''q;''^"!'^"''^J winch may, indeed, replace one g.r 2>«- perform eacli other's functions. {^aiMar I a rto/oflv, p. 455, et seq.) „„ftV,iQnrn. hrothcr te..tures, the ear .es stnges of th s pro cess have not been so distinctly 'raced ,perhap^ because the textures themselves have not the same