BSTRUCTIONS. 88 INTESTINAL O: and anxietj' o? countenance be present, and be at- tended sooner or later by sj-raptoms of inHammation. It will be convenient to refer to these symptoms in relation to the particular form of obstruction with which each may be associated, and in the order of frequency in which each lesion is supposed to occur in the human subject. It will also obviously be a matter of first importance to determine the seat of obstruction, whether it be in the small or large intestine. Obstnidions in the Small liitesline.—This portion of the alimentary canal will probably be the seat of mechanical obstruction, if the above symptoms set in rapidly and with great severity. Constipalion will be obstinate, but occasionally, not imtil the lower bowel has disposed of its contents, as is ob- served in certain cases of external hernia. Vomiting will set in after the lapse of from one to several hours, in proportion as the obstruction to the onward passage of the contents of the bowel be near, either to the stomach or to the ilio-cEecal valve, and in a similar degree will the nature of the vomited matters be changed from the simple contents of the stomach to bilious matter, and the contents of the small in- testine. Even to this rule an exception exists, and, as in a case recorded by Dr. Bird and Mr. Hilton, vomiting may not set in until after the lapse of days from the supposed date of obstruction. This delay depends probably upon the empty condition of the stomach and bov/els above the seat of stricture at the time the lesion occurs, and upon the patient subsequently partaking of food, which gradually ac- cumulates and becomes a source of irritation. Thus, at length, peristalsis is excited and vomiting super- venes. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxx. p. 51.) The presence of the contents of the bowels in the ejecta is usually ascribed to the reversed action of the intestines ; but this so-called theory of anli- peristalsis is believed by Dr. Brinton to be founded on error. " The movement proper to the healthy intestine is a circular constriction or peristalsis, which, travelling slowly down its muscular wall, propels its contents in a direction from the stomach to the anus, and, when any part of the intestine has its cavity obliterated by an immovable mechanical obstacle, its contents, propelled by such a peristalsis, are stopped at the obstructed point. Here theygradu- ally accumulate, so as first to fill and then to distend a variable length of the canal, with a more or less liquid mass. But a peristalsis, engaging the wall of a closed tube filled with liquid, and falling short of obliterating its calibre, sets up two currents in that liquid : one of the surface or periphery of the tube, having the direction of the peristalsis itself, and one in its centre or axis, having precisely the reverse course. Those particles of the liquid which are in contact with the inner surface of the tube, are propelled onwards by the muscular contraction of its walls, .and the propulsion is necessarily ac- companied by a backward current in those particles which occupy the axis or centre of the canal. . . . Amongst the circumstances which modify this pro- cess are the following:—!. The dilatability of the obstructed bowel, which, on the one hand, by yielding to the pressure of peristalsis, delays and opposes the axial current, while on the other (since the intestine acquires much of its increased width at the expense of its normal length) it diminishes the length through which this current must extend to provoke fiecal vomiting. 2. The paraly sis, which sooner or later results from increasing distension, removes, as it were, the point of reflection of the peristalsis, or the commencement of the axial cur- rent to a higher point of the bowel. 3. In the large intestine, the presence of ffeces above the obstruction seems sometimes to have a temporary eifect of the same kind; the impacted mass forming a secondary obstruction, to and fcom which the peris- talsis and its reflected current respectively tend." (See Croonian Lectures, irace^, April 30, 1859.) Dislensio7i of the Abdomen consequent on the accumulation of gases and fluids in the bowels, will be less remarkable in obstruction of the small than it will be in a similar condition of the large intes- tine, in proportion as the obstacle be near to or at a distance from the stomach. It will also increase with the duration of the disease, bj' the gradual failure and cessation of the peristaltic action of the bowel, the muscular coat of which, becoming fatigued and paralysed by its unsuccess- ful endeavours to overcome the obstacle, gradually yields to the increasing accumulation within, and is no longer able to maintain the natural calibre of the tube. This distension is more distressing than absolutely painful to the sufferer, excepting when the bowel repeats its eftbrts to liberate'itself, rolling, tumbling, and compressing its contents so as to give rise to unpleasant sensations and gurgling noises, attended by cramps, as they are termed; and presently perhaps to be followed by eructation and an interval of abdominal repose, while the im- prisoned bowel recovers its strength for a fresh at- tempt. These fits of peristalsis are of use in a diagnostic point of view, not only from the fact that they may sometimes be both seen and felt through the abdominal wall, but because the patient is often able to indicate the course of the contents of the intestine by these movements and the sensation communicated by the passage of gas through fluids, causing gurglings. The greater amount of uneasi- ness is experienced at the close of this fit; doubt- less at the moment when the portion of bowel immediately adjoining the stricture becomes the seat of this action. Again, gurglings in the small intestines are usually referred to the umbilical region, the greater protrusion of the abdominal wall being also umbilico-hypogastric, with a correspond- ing flattening along the course of the colon. The possibility of introducing a flexible tube per anum to the extent of several inches, and of injecting a copious enema into the larger bowel, will direct the surgeon's attention to the small intestine. Pain in connexion with mechanical obstruction of the small intestine, varies greatly both in degree and character. In one instance it will be severe localised, and attended by prostration, indicating most probably a sudden and tight constriction of the higher bowel; at another time it is paroxj'smal and contemporaneous with peristalsis; while at a later period it is constant, augmented by pressure, and apparently increased by peristalsis, indicating the accession of inflammation. Unless always referred to one spot, pain is not a valuable symptom in reference to the locality of the obstruction. Secretion of Urine.—It is worthy of note that, in very many instances of obstruction in the higher part of the small intestine, attended by vomiting, very little if any urine is passed. This circum- stance is thus accounted for by Dr. Barlow {Gui/'s Hospital Reports, series ii., vol. ii.): —" In cases of this nature, where no fluids can pass into the alimentary canal, and where, in consequence,