586 times unequally and exposes more of the eyeball than natural; and when it reaches the lips it draws them apart and brings the teeth into view; induc- ing considerable deformity of the features. L. exedens presents itself as a single dull red tu- bercle developed on the nose. The tubercle be- comes inflamed, suppurates in the centre and forms a scab; under this scab a small but deep ulceration takes place; another scab is formed of larger dimensions, and so the disease moves on slowly for years, without making much perceptible progress. At other times the ulceration is more rapid, the nose loses shape; first, one ala is de- troyed or perchance the tip of the organ, then the other ala or a part of the columna, and in this manner the nose is entirely destroyed. Occasion- allj' the ulceration is rapid and warrants the ap- pellation which has been bestowed on this variety, namely, lupus vorax. 12. Carcinomatous Affections.—Carcino- ma cutis usually makes its beginning as an epithe- lioma of the follicle of one of the sebaceous glands, and forms a small hard transparent tubercle, be- coming by degrees an indolent ulcer bounded by a prominent margin and gradually spreading into the surrounding skin. It is limited to the skin ; rarely affecting the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and only in its latter stages attacking the deeper seated textures. 13. Zymotic Affections are the exanthe- matous fevers, originating in a special organic poison, communicable by contagion, and develop- ing certain phenomena on the skin. They are : rubeola, scarlatina, varicda, varicella, vaccinia, equinia, and possibly framboesia. 14. Syphilitic Affections.—Syphiloder- MATA or syphilitic eruptions, in their evolution on the skin, follow the tj'pe of cutaneous eruptions in general and are presented to the eye in five principal forms :—namely, erythematous, papulous, tuberculous, pustulous and ulcerous, to which may be added alopecia and onychia. S. erytliematosum occurs either as an erythema or roseola ; S. fajm- losum,as'a lichen; S. tuberculosum, as tubercles of various magnitude and number, which run their course as tubercles or pass into ulceration; S. pus- tii/osum, which is represented by ecthyma and rupia ; and S. ulcerosmn which begins in the tu- bercular form and passes into the state of ulcera- tion ; one while sinking deeply into the skin, another while creeping along its surface in a semicircle ; or, as a phagedsena, destroying every- thing in its course. Syphilitic eruptions are characterised by a dull tint of redness, which is Commonly denominated "copper-coloured;" by the absence of pruritus which exists in nearly every other variety of eruption ; by swelling of lym- phatic glands in the regions chiefly affected, and by the presence of other symptoms denoting sy- philis, for example, sore throat, neuralgia, and periosteal pains. 15. Leprous Affections.—Elephantiasis or elephantiasis Grtecoruni is the leprosy of the middle ages ; a disease, happilj\ lost in Britain, but still active in Norway, Svveden, the north of Russia, on the coasts and islands of the West Indies and Indian Ocean, and generally on the coasts of hot climates. It presents two varieties, E. tuberculosa and anaBSthetica, which are founded on tlic two most striking symptoms of the com- plaint, namely, tubercles and insensibility of the SKIN, DISEASES OF. skin. The tubDrcles of elephantiasis begin as erythematous spots, which subsequently increase to tlie size of tubercles ; the tubercles are brown or bronzed in colour, and are commonly developed along the line of the eyebrows, on the forehead and cheeks, along the ala; of the nose, along the lips, and upon the ears. Loss of sensation com- mences in the hands and feet, and gradually ex- tends to other parts of the body, in the anajsthetic variety to the whole body. The tubercles are apt to pass into a state of ulceration which lasts for a time and then heals ; and in anaesthetic leprosy the ulceration extends into the joints (E. nodosa) and the bones of the extremities are not unfre- quently denuded and expelled through the ulcer- ated openings. Morph^ea, nigra and alba, are the vitiligo melas and leuce of Celsus : the melas and the leuce of the Greeks ; both occur as symp- toms of elephantiasis Grsecorum ; and morpliaea alba is not uncommon in Britain, where, as a na- tive disease, elephantiasis is unknown. 16. Pigmentary Affections. — Dyscliro- maioderinala, or discolorations of the skin from changes of pigment, are referrible to three heads, augmentation, diminution, and morbid alteration. Augmentation of pigment produces a dark state of the skin, variously designated melanopathia, me- lasma, and nigredo cutis, and gives the dusky hue to pigmentary moles or spili. Dimhiution of pig- ment, orachroma,is seen in leucopathia, leucasraus, alphosis, or albinismus, and is either general, as in the albino, or partial, and occurs in patches of various size and extent. Morbid alteration of pigment, or dyschroma, is shown in the develop, ment of hues differing from the natural type of colouration of the skin, the chief alterations of colour being black, white, yellow, blue, or com- pounds of black and yellow, giving rise to various tints of brown and green. The principal varieties of these affections are—ephelis, or sunburn; len- tigo, or freckles; a black discoloration, or melasma; and a blue discoloration, described by Billard d'Angers under the name of cyanopathia cutanea. 17. Phytodermic Affections, or dermato- phyta, are diseases involving the structure of the rete mucosum and epidermis, and possessing the character in common of developing a morbid tissue resembling a fungous plant or mucedo ; hence another appellation for these affections, namely, nosophyta. The phytiform tissue has received the names of microsporon, trichophyton, and achorion, and the diseases with which it is identified, and of which it is the especial pathognomonic sign, are favus, tinea, sj'cosis, and phytosis versicolor. All these diseases are affections of the hair-follicles and hairs, hence their fuller consideration will be found in the group of " Affections of the hair system." 18. Ungual Affections.—Affections of the nails and nail-follicles include morbid aberrations of the cuticular margin of the nail-follicle; of the struc- ture of the nails as respects development, growth, colour, and texture; and inflanmiation, suppuration, and ulceration of the matrix and adjacent soft parts. Growth of the cuticular margin of the follicle forwards with the nail is termed pterygium while the shredding of this portion of rise to agnails, and eversion of the to expose to view the nail- Abnormal development's ungitis. cuticle gives cuticular edge so as follicle, ficus unguis rccoijnised in conjcnilal absence of the nail; in fall