SPINA VENTOSA Amongst the curious facts adverted to by Mr. colour in the skin Diiwson. " In tliis instiuice, there was not more functional dIsturlKince present than is often met with in cases of hysteria ; while the post-niorti'm ex-ainination unfolded an extent of actual disor- ganisation of the nervous centre of a most appalling character : to such an extent, indeed, as niiirht have been believed to be, not only incompatible with the exercise of voluntary power, but with life. There was no paralysis of the lower ex- tremities, nor of the sphincters. The inability to empty the bladder indicated some want of consent of parts ; but not more than is frequently met with in hysterical females, or after a tedious labour." (See Trans, of Ptov. Med. and Surg. Association, vol. i. p. 219.) G, G. Gascoyen. RituscJin, Obs. Anat. Warner's Cases in Surgery. B. Ue/fs System of Surjcery, vol. v. Acre/, in hchwed. Ahhancll. b. x. p. 291, &c. Murraii, Opusc u. No. 5. et. M^d. Pract. Jiibl. iii. p. 612.' Portal Lours d'Anat. Aled. t. iv. p. 66. Lassits, Pathologie Clur. t. 1. p. 260, et seq. edit. 180j. Aberiiethi/'s burjical and Pliysiological Essays, parts i. and iii J. I . Okes, An Account of Spina Bifida, with Rp. niarks on the Method of Trealment proposed by Mr Aberneth!i,Hvo. Cambridge, 1810. R/c/ifer, Anfaiigsgr der Wuiidurzu. b. v. kap. 17. Sir A. Cooper, in iMed. tliir. Trans, vol. ii. p. 322, &c. H. Karlc, in the same Work, vol. vii. p. 427, &c. Edinb. Med. and bars. Journal, No. 67. J. A. Murrat), De Spins JJinda; ex mala Ossmm Conformatiune Initio. Gott. 1779. Fteinchmaun, De Vitiis Con?enitis circa Ilioracem et Abdomen. Erlang. ISIO. Otto, in Seltenen Beobacht. Breslau, 1816. P. Haves, in New England Journal, 1817, vol. i. No. 3. Neiien- dorff, De S[iinae Bifida? Cuiatione Radicali. Lips. 1820. W. Law. in EJinb. Med. and Surgical Journ. No. ion. (A case in which punctures, followed up by pressure, were tried ; but though the child went on favourably for a time, suppuration afterwards occurred, and death look place rather suddenly.) [Mori/affiu, De sedibus et causis Morborum, 1761, epist. VII. .7. F. Meckfl, Handbook of Patholo<'ical Anatomy. Leipzig, 1816, vol. i. Dover, Traitt? de Maladies Chirurgicales, 1818. C. P. Ollivier, Traiti? de la Moelle Bpiui^re et deses Maladies. Paris, 1827. C. J)/. Billaud, Traits des Maladies des Enfans nouveaux-n^s et a la mamelle. Paris, 1828. Finher Loud, and Edinb. Phiios. Mar. and Journal of fecience, 1837, vol. x. Vinchou, Gazette des H6i)i- taux, 1838. Mou'inM, Bull. M^d. du Midi et Gaz. M<5d. 1838. [Heynard, Gaz. M^d. de Paris, 1811. vol. IX. LoHffet, Anat. et Physiol, du sysleme nerveux de I homme et des aniujaux vert^br^s. Paris, 18+2. vol. 1. Prescott IJewett, Cases of Spina Bifida, with Remarks, Lond. Med. Gaz. 1844, vol. xxxiv. Alnlfiaigne, Sur la nature et le traitement du Spina Bihila, Journ. de Cliir. Paris, Feb., 1845. Nilalon, lilemens ile I'ath. Chir. 1»47, vol. li; Chelius, Sy.^t-jm of Siirgtry, by South, 1817, vol. ii. CrnvciUaer, \rml6 d'Anat. Pathol, ^r^ntrale, 1849. liokUanski/, Manual o( Pathol. Anatomy, 1850, vol. iii. ftnlh/, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xl. 1857. JJielwis, Hull, de la ftoc. de Chir. Paris, i860. Eric/iseu, Sy.steui 01 Surgery, 1861. Brainard, Amer. Journ. of Medical science, I8C1I, vol. xlii. Gros.i, System of Surgery, 18-i4, vol. ii. Holmes, System of Surgery, 1864, vol. iv. Pal/i. Soc. Trans, vols. iii. viii. xl. xiv.j SPINA VENTOSA. The Arabian writers first employed this term to express a disease in which matter formed in the interior of a bone, and afterwards made its way outward beneath tlie skin. Until the matter had escaped from within the bone, tliese authors describe the pain as being incessant and intolerable; but that, after the pus liad made its way outward by fistulous openings, the patient's suffering underwent a consid<'rablc diminution. The matter sometimes insinuated itself, from the interior of the bone, into the cel- lular substance, so as to render it soft and ilabby, though not always attended with any chiinge of VOL. II. 60.9 The swelling had somewhat' the apjiearance of emphysema. To express this state, the .'\rabians added the term voUnsa to that of spina, whi'ch was employed, bijfnre their time, to e.'cpress the nature of the pain attend:int on the disease. (See an account of this subject in tlie Encyclnpidie MiiUodique, Part. Clur. art. Spina Venlosa.) The term spina ventosa has, since the time of the Arabian writers, been used by many to sig- nify the disease named ivMla sivelling; and the former may have intended to express by it a similar affection, though the contrary may be in- ferred from their account of the matter forming in the interior of the bone and passing thence under the integuments, a thing which, \ believe, never yet happened in any case of white swelling. An- other, and perhaps a decisive argument, against the original signification of the word being the same as that of white-swelling, is, that it was not restricted to diseases of the joints and heads of the bones; but was also applied to abscesses, which commenced in the cavities of the middle portions of the long bones, where, I need hardly observe, white swellings are never found. For these reasons, many respectable authors have implied, by the term spina venlosa, an ab- scess in the interior of the bone. (See Latla's System of Surgery, vol i. p. 165.) Cases of this kind are rare compared with that common disor- der, white swelling; and I am certain, from the descriptions given by some authors, that their cases of spina ventosa were in reality only in- stances of necrosis. But, that abscesses do some- times occur in the interior of the bones, more par- ticularly of those of young persons, cannot be doubted by any surgeon of experience. [This very indefinite expression has been ap- plied to almost every description of tumor which occurs in bones, and its indiscriminate application has been a source of confusion in the pathologv of these cases. When a tumor forms in bone,, slowly and gradually expanding its tissue, and causing swelling of the soft parts over it, no mat- ter what the real nature of the growth may be, the symptoms and appearances are for a time very similar for each; and this incidental resemblance between them formerly led to the application of the term spina ventosa to any morbid enlargement of bone which presented certain appearances and cer- tain symptoms. The disease which has been described under this name consists of a growth or deposit within the substance of a bone, and, by its gradual in- crease, causing expansion and thinning of the os- seous walls, with separation of the cancellated texture. The portion of bone affected becomes much enlarged, and forms a smooth round or oval swelling; as the disease advances, the spong\r tissue may undergo complete absorption, leaving a largo single cavity surrounded by the thinned os- seous walls, or the cancelli may be expanded until several of them are blended together, forming thus a number of cysts or cells of various sizi-s, encased by a delicate fragile shell of bone, which yields under pressure with a peculiar crackling s(uind, like a piece of parchment, or as if air were cnntained in the swelling. Occasionally, this bony envelope is more or less absorbed, the periostonni alone forming the wall of the tnnuu-, and it is usually pierced by luimermis openings. When 11 K