INFLAMMATION of skin disenses the reader is referred to tlie Art. Skin, and to the works of Erasmus Wilson and otliers. Here we shall only speak of them so far as they illustrate the doctrine of iiiflaniniation ; and more especially the law of the specific difference of various disease-creating causes, in the time, place, form, colour, and size of the effects. Of the forms of inflammation of the skin, some can be produced at will by applying various irri- tants, as erythema; some depend on internal causes of which we know nothing definite, as urti- ciiria ; and some of the latter cannot be caused at will, and hence are called specific, as psoriasis. Some are evidenced by heat, pain, swelling, and red- ness of the most transient character. Thus urticaria is a transient congestion of the skin, with redness, burning, and tingling, similar to that caused by the poison of the nettle. Wheals of a ligli ter colour, round, oval, or linear, appear on the red surface. Its most common exciting cause is indigestible food—especially some kinds of shell-fish. It is most common in summer, and is usually accom- panied by severe gastric irritation and some con- gestion of the fauces. Vomiting often puts an end to the disorder, which, however, sometimes becomes chronic and troublesome. We may fairly assume the evolution of some poison in the system, which, circulated with the blood, acts on the skin as nettles do, and to which ammonia is the best antidote. Roseola is a clustered, punctated rash nf various degrees of brightness, strongly resembling measles. It is associated with congestion of the mucous membrane of the fauces, and with a moderate amount of general feverishness. There is commonly tenderness of the submaxillary and neighbouring glands. Roseolous rashes are sometimes met with in small-pox, cow-pox, rheumatism, and cholera. Many forms of transient inflammation of the fikm, which derive their name erytUma from the pro- minent symptom, redness, vary from a slight and fleetmg redness to the remarkable and persistent Bwelhngs of erythema nodosum. This sometimes assumes a more or less perfectly annular shape, from the subsidence of the inflammation at the centre while the edges of the patch continue to spread. In erythema nodosum hard oval patches of a bright red colour, most prominent in the centre, and ap- parently involving tissues deeper than the skin, form on the front of the legs or arms, their long axis corresponding with that of the limb. This form of inflammation chiefly affects young and weakly persons, and is preceded by considerable derange- ment of the digestive organs. It is often asso- ciated with rheumatism. In scarlatina the dis- turbance of luitrition is usually enough to detach the cuticle, and lead to desquamation. In lichen the mtiammation is localised in the orifices of the follicles, forming papula:, which end by the desquamation of a petty sciile of cuticle. There is a numerousset of inflammations in which tlie primary effect IS a crop of vesicles. These consist of ex- udatmns of sermn under the cuticle, just as after the application of hot water or Spanish flv. In scabies they are very minute ; in heipes t'hev occur in clusters or patches of reddened skin ;"in chicken pox, small-pox, and vaccinia, the vesicles are dotted over the surface, but are accompanied with more or less deep-seated inflammation of the cutis vera and with destruction of its surface, leading lo a pit or cicatrix. Vesicles may attain the size of eK«» in pemphigus. 51 Those are examples of acute Inflammations, most ol them possessing natural limits of place duration, and violence, so that their course can be calculated within a few hours. There are other skin diseases which present the characters of chronicity to an equally remarkable degree, as, for instance, the chronic eczema. The essence of eczema seems to be an infiltration of the cutis with unhealthy serous fluid, accompanied by more or less of palpable inflammation ; and the papules, exudations, vesicles, pustules, fissures, desquama- tions, and other phenomena which give names to so many varieties of the disease, are nierelv its accidents, arising from difl'ereiit degrees of inflam- mation of the hair-follicles and minute glands, the position and circumstances of the eruption as re- gards friction, exposure, moisture, and the like, and the state of health of the patient. Eczema is' contagious ;—it is undeniable that the contact of an eczematous surface with the skin of a person of suitable constitution, will produce eczema at the spot subjected to contact ; and few contagious diseases can do more. Whereas the surface in eczema is wet and oozing, in psoriasis the skin is leathery, and gives out moisture only on being rubbed. The epithelial scales die and be- come detached in a dry powder. Pityriasis most commonly affects the scalp and hairy parts of the skin; it differs from psoriasis chiefly in the greater size and copiousness of the scales thrown off by the epithelium, and by the smoothness of the surface left. Further examples of specific forms of skin in- flanimation depending on constitutional causes are afforded by the elephantiasis {E. Arahum) of hot climates, a disease probably of malarious orio-in (see ScROTUM),andby the true \e'^vosy,0TElephantiasis (xrcBcorum, which is supposed to be identical with the leprosy of the Old Testament. It now pre- vails chiefly in the West Indies, and in Iceland and Norway. It commences with an erythematous spot, which proceeds to a reddening of a patch or patches of skin, with hyperaisthesia, followed by numbness and thickening, loss of hair, and dry desquamation. The skin sometimes ulcerates over farge surfaces. In another variety of the disease the nerves are chiefly attacked; the degeneration accompanied by a viscous exudation into the sheaths, beginning in the cutaneous nerves, and extending along the trunks to the spinal cord and brain. The nerves first present red spots at irre- gular distances, and then become nodulated and hardened, and of a brownish colour, especially at the points of junction of cutaneous branches Anas thesia and local paralysis follow, and sometimes a bone or entire limb dies and is separated The face is often attacked. The disease is liere'ditarv and perhaps contagious. The inflammations of the throat convey the same lesson, viz., that every distinct cause pro- duces its own phenomena. Acute tonsillitis or quinsey is generally ascribed to cold, and usually affects plethoric persons; is attended with high fever, and often ends in abscess, A superficial inflammatoiy blush of the mucous membrane with more or less swelling and tenderness of the t'msilg and adjacent glands, accnmpanies many fevers and constitutional diseases, as erysipelas, small-pox measles, and particularly scarlatina. Everv degree of putrid miasm pniduces corresponding degrees of sore throat, and the prevalence of this ulfeclion iu u 2