VISION. the ejre under examination, if healthj-, should recognise each letter of the series, and the acute' iiess of vision is normal if No. 1 can be recognised 1 \ / 2 at at 1' (V = J ) ; II at 2' (V =j2) ; XX 20' (V = ; C at 1«0' (V = ^°*'). By this method the degree of acuteness of vision is expressed by a fraction, of which the number above the horizontal line represents the distance at which the test letters can be recognised by the i-ye under examination, and the number below the horizontal line the distance at which the test betters can be recognised by the normal eye ; e.g. = -, or V = 1, signifies that at 1 foot, letters <if No. 1 (i.e. those which at 1 foot should be recognised by a normal eye) can be recognised by tlie eye under examination, and that therefore that eye is normal as far as acuteness of vision for ibjects placed at 1 loot from the eye goes. Instead jf writing V = we may, then, write V= 1. V 20 V = signifies that at 20 feet letters of No. ■?0 (i.e. those which at 20 feet should be recognised : y a normal eye) can be recognised by the eye under examination, and that therefore the eye is normal, as far as acuteness of vision for objects placed at "20 feet from the eye goes. Instead of writing 20 V = write V for distance =1. If letters which should be recognised at 20 feet can Illy be recognised at 10 feet, we write V = 4-7 or Ag, or V = i ; if they can only be recognised at 5 feet, we write V = —, or or V = ^, XX &c. &c. The number above the horizontal line always expresses the distance at which the test Iptters can be recognised by the eye under exami- ation, and the number below the horizontal line ihe distance at which the test letters can be recng- iiised by the normal eye, or ought to be recognised by the eye under examination if normal. The acuteness of vision is somewhat influenced ny tlie size of the pupil. It is increased in weak light when the pupil is dilated, and in strong or diffused light when it is contracted. We should therefore pay attention to the degree of light employed in the examination. The range of accommodation and the acuteness of vision diminish as age advances. The former is shown by the necessity of holding small objects further from the eye in order to see them dis- tinctly, tlie latter by the eye being no more able to distinguish objects of certain sizes nt the same distance at which they could be recognised in youth. The images formed in and perceived by the retina and the functions of the optic nerve-fibres become less pi,rfect. Up to the age of forty, vision remains about normal. At the age of sixty it has already much decreased, so that, for instance, !etters of No. 20 can only be recognised at from ]6 inches to 16 inches. At the age of eighty, the acuteness of vision is about half as good as it was at forty. The field of vision (F).—We distinguish be- tween direct and indirect vision. In direct vision the object perceived lies opposite the yellow spot of the retina, one or both the visual lines being directed to the same point of the object. In in- direct vision objects are perceived which lie opposite other parts of the retina to those used in direct vision. In indirect vision the images of objects are formed on more eccentric parts of the retina. The place occupied by the image on the retina determines the part of the field of vision upon which the image is projected. Any object perceived indirectly, while one or both visual lines are directed to one point of an object, lies in the field of vision. Having determined V, or the acuteness of direct vision, we proceed to ascer- tain F. The limits or boundaries of the field of vision (F) are given by the most excentrically placed point of an object which can still be perceived while one or both visual lines are directed to a point of an object. We must distinguish between F, or field of vision, and field of fixation ; the latter comprises those points in the field of vision, which without altering the position of the head or body can still be seen directly. The field of vision of one eye and that of both eyes together have been measured. That of one eye is sharply divided into lateral halves, a tem- poral and a nasal half. (See Hemiopia.) A line drawn through the points which limit the field of vision forms an ellipse. Vertically, the field measures about 160° ; horizontally, about 170°. Great prominence of the margin of the orbit and of the bridge of the nose limit the boun- daries of the field. The percipient elements of the retina decrease in a certain proportion from the centre, or yellow spot, towards the periphery, and more rapidly in the vertical than in the horizontal direction. Having ascertained the extent or boundaries of the field of vision, we may wish to determine the acuteness of the retina as regards the perception of objects situated in different parts of the field. Modes of ascertaining the extent of the sensi- tive part of the retina, or the field of vision of one eye.—A record of the extent of the sensitive por- tion of the retina, to enable us to compare the course of retinal and other changes, the effect of treatment, &c., may be made in the following manner:—A sheet of dull dark blue paper, size two feet square, with a small white cross traced in the centre, and a vertical and horizontal line inter- secting each other at the centre of the cross and dividing the paper into quarters, is fixed upon a wall. The patient stands at the distance of 12 inches from the paper, facing the white cross, which should be on a level with the eye under examina- tion, while the other eye is kept closed. The patient is directed to look steadily and con- tinually at the cross while we move a piece of white chalk fixed on a black handle, from the margin of the blue paper towards the cross, A mark is made at the spot where the white disc of chalk becomes first visible, liepeating this move- ment from different parts of the margin of the paper towards the cross, and not from the latter towards the margin, we obtain a series of points which correspond to the most peripheral sensitive portions of retina. Through those we draw a line and the figure thus obtained represents the extent of the sensitive portion of retina, or in other words