519 RECTUM, DISEASES OF, vomiting, and pain and difficulty in passing the urine. " Difficulty in making water, sonietnnes amounting to complete retention, and requiring tlie catheter to be introduced (according to the observ- ation of Mr Syme), very frequently occurs, but seldom continues beyond the first twenty-four hours. In two cases, I have found it last for nearly a fortnight." (See Syme, On Dis. of the Rectum, p. 85.) With the exception of two instances, Sir B. Brodie never knew any ill consequences arise from tying piles. He saw one patient, who died after the operation, in consequence of diffuse inflam- mation of the cellular tissue running up on the out- side of the gut, as high as the mesentery; but it was in a constitution broken down by long con- tinued hajmorrhage, and in whom any slight accident might have produced equally bad conse- quences. He saw another patient, who, a week after the operation, and after having been quite well in the interval, had an attack of pain in the abdomen, and shivering, attended with fever, and who died. An examination of the body not hav- ing been allowed, the precise cause of death was not ascertained. The following is the treatment recommended by Mr Syme for the alleviation of some of the unpleasant consequences occasionally following the operation :—"An opiate, containing thirty or forty drops of the solution of muriate of morphia, should be administered to the patient, if he complains of pain, and be repeated from time to time, if it con- tinues severe; or a somewhat larger dose may be injected into the rectum with a teaspoonful or two of warm water. Fomentations may be at the same time applied to the anus. And if, notwithstand- ing these means, much suffering is still experienced, the hip-bath of poppy-head decoction should be em- ployed. The retention of urine, if slight, may be relieved by giving the spir. aetheris nitrici, or the camphor mixture; and, if more obstinate, will re- quire the catheter to be introduced occasionally as long as it lasts. The patient should restrict him- self to the antiphlogistic regimen, and drink freely of simple diluents, such as barley water, or linseed tea. He should also confine himself to the hori- aontal posture, until the ligatures separate." {Op. cit. p. 85.) [An operation which is a kind of combination of excision with the ligature, and which to a consider able extent combines the advantages, while it avoids the disadvantages of both plans, has been devised by Mr. Salmon, and practised by him at St. Mark's Hospital for many years with admirable results It has also been adopted by the writer in many hundreds of cases. Tlie tumors being protruded they are seized in succession with a hook or vul- sellum, and are separated with scissors from the subjacent parts along the line of union of the skin with the mucmis membrane. The cut mad witii the scissors should be sufficiently deep and free to detach the tumor from the muscular tissue on wliich it rests to an extent equal to about three- fourths of its base, leaving it attached l)y its upper fourth only. The ligature is placed in the deep groove thus niiide,and is tied tightly round the upper part of the tumor. The danger of hicmorrhage is effectually provided against, because the vessels which supply the tumor do not enter it indis criminately at its base, but descend from above close beneath the mucous membrane, and their trunks are therefore necessarily included in the ligature. After the ligatures have been applied the bulk of the tumors may be cut away, care being taken to leave sufficient tissue beyond the ligature to prevent it from slipping,, and the parts may then be returned within the sphincter. This operation is preferable to the usual method ot strangulating the whole base of the tumor by trans- fixing it with a needle and tying it in two halves— first, because it is accomplished in less than half the time; secondly, because scarcely more than one- fourth the amount of tissue is strangulated by the ligature; thirdly, because the ligature is tied round mucous membrane at some distance from the anus, where the sensibility is much less acute, and consequently the after pain and irritation are very greatly diminished. Instead of the whole of the base of the tumor being converted into a slough- ing wound, the sloughing process is confined to the upper part only. As evidence that the irritation is much less after this than after the old operation, maybe mentioned the fact that the urinary organs are rarely affected by it, whereas after the ordinary method retention of urine is certainly tlie rule rather than the exception. Whichever method be adopted the mode of dealing with the inflamed and swollen skin is a point of great importance to the ultimate success of the operation. All pendulous or projecting por- tions,—" external piles,"—should be removed freely by excision, but the collar of everted skin sur- rounding the protruded haemorrhoids should on no account be interfered with. The removal of this kely to be followed by a cicatricial contraction of the anal aperture whicli will be as painful and distressing to the patient as the original disease. The error is one not unfrequently practised by in- experienced operators. It maybe best avoided by returning the ligatured parts within the sphincter before meddling with the skin. The surgeon will then be able to judge without difficulty how much of the latter is really redundant and requires to be removed. It might be expected that there would be risk of a similar contraction taking place within the rectum when there has been a free removal of the raucous membrane. Practically, however, this is not found to be the case. Occasionally a certain rigidity may be met with for some time from this cause when the disease has been extensive, but the parts by degrees regain their elasticity,and the inconvenience disappears. The cicatrices of mucous membranes seem not to have the same tendency to contract or to remain firm and rigid which is found to be the case in cicatrices of the skin. In cases where any tendency of this kind is observed, the introduction of a full-sized rectum bougie every second or third day will be found beneficial. There is probably no operation in surgery which affords so much relief at so small a cost of suli'er- ing and risk as the removal of ha;morrhoidal tumors with tlie ligature. On this point Sir B. Brodie has expressed himself very strongly. Having operated on between 200 and 300 cases, he " con- ceives that this is not only one of the most elTec- lual but one of the safest operations in surgery." He was cognisant of two fatal cases, wliich have been already alluded to, one from diffuse inlhim- mation the other apparently from pya;uiia, but with these exceptions he never knew any ill con- sequences arise. He contends therefore that the