[66] INFLAMMATION, amongst which are comprised copious draughts of water, either pure or in the form of toast- water, barley-water, seltzer and soda-water, lemon- ade, apple-tea, tlie (jumines, tisanes, and Ihe de tilleul of the French, and other means of \va-,liing out the blood and increasing perspiration and urine. With these are generally combined saline medi- cines, and especially the nitrate of potass, or the carbonate or bicarbonate of potass, more or less saturated with lemon-juice. Concerning the choice of them, the patient's taste should be con- sulted, and if the tongue be mawkish lie will probably desire acidulous drinks, as lemonade, cream of tartar, or tamarind-water, hot or cold. If the tongue be red, and bowels loose, he will probably prefer something alkaline, as barley-water or seltzer-water. If the urine be very loaded, or if there be a gouty or rheumatic taint, it will be convenient to give the nurse a small bottle of bicarbonate of potass, and some slips of litmus- paper, and desire a small teaspoonful of the potass dissolved in any light drink to be given every fmir hours till the urine ceases to be acid. ihe thousands of sick and fevered patients who have felt the benefit of effervescing saline medicines for the relief of vomiting, thirst, dry hot skm, and scanty urine, ought to bless tlie name of Lazarus Riverius, who, about 16S0, taught his brethren to mix a scruple of salt of wormwood (i.e., carbonate of potass) with a tablespoonful of lemon-juice. The Liquor Ammonia: Acetaiis, or Spint of Mmde- rerus (Raymond Minderer was Physician to the illustrious Fuager family at Augsburg at the begiii- niiio- of the seventeenth century), and the carbonate of ammonia are medicines of great power in pro- moting perspiration and expectoration. ihe nitrate of potass has long enjoyed reputation as a " refrigerant " It is said to hold fibriiie in solution, and has been used with equivocal benefit by Dr. Basbam and others, as a specific in acute rheuma- tism. Certain it is that it has a calming effect on the heart, and seems to clean tlie tongue ; and i have alwavs thought that its virtues as a calmant were of the same order, though less in degree than those of the bromide of potass. It gives oft oxvgen,incontact with carbon, at a red heat, but not in the blood ; yet it has a marked effect on the colour of the blood corpuscles. The third class of remedies for inflammation are .uch as allay pain and nervous imtation, to the intent, to use Hunterian phraseology, that the system at large may be kept in ignorance ot injnrj' 0 a part. All that we said of soothing remedies as preventives applies to them with double force as curative remedies. They are required to «1 ve pain and spasm, to divert mental anxie y, to pio- cure sleep ; and they liave the P'-OP"-'^' diffusing the circulation, keeping the skin and extremities warm, and P™"-'-g P^^^" f They make the breathing slower, and the ncc o o™ less urgent. They go with any otli i eniedy. Thus! if it be deemed expedient bleed, a full dose of opium P-'e^e."'^ ^''^I"^' ^ which may possibly follow ^I'^P"'™'^ io of the circuktion. In idiopathic ""'^ "^j' will generally be expedient to purge h. t o u but a dose of opium may l^e eonibuied th ^ calomel or other purgative which is '^^ministucd. With nauseating diaphoretics they act ia » plementaiy manner. Perhaps the diaphoretic ot greatest celebrity is the powder of Thomas Dover, M.B. {Ancient Physician's Legacy, 5th ed. 1733.) This is now commcmly prepared of sulphate of potass, with opium and ipecacuanha; the original must have contained carbonate of potass. Dover used it in gout ; be first of all purged freely, and then allayed pain and irritation by full doses of his powder. The practice was well devised, and successful. In inflammations following injuries of the head opiates may be used freely in conjunction with purgatives or depletion. They are necessary to allay hard, dry cough; but the practitioner must be aware that in any chest inflammation attended with copious secretion, as old bronchitis, very small doses take very great effect, and that if the patient be so narcotised as to take away the desire to cough, he may soon die stertorous, and drowned in his own secretions. In pleurisy, following broken rib or blow on the chest, they may be used freely, with or without bleeding. But it is in abdominal inflammations of all sorts that opiates act most beneficially. "Independently," says Sir T. Watson (in a letter dated 1838, in R. Ferguson, op. cit., p. 291), " of its controlling power over one of the elements of inflammation, I apprehend that opium is highly beneficial in peritoneal in- ilammation in another and more mechanical way ; namely, by arresting the peristaltic movements^ of the bowels, and so preventing tension and friction of the parts actually inflamed, which should be kept , asabsolutely atrest, if possible, as an inflamed joint." Sir T. Watson quotes Bates, of Sudbuiy, as a little-known writer who early developed this doctrine. In dysentery especially, and in inflam- mation of the bladder, opiates are requisite to prevent the distress and mischief from frequent straining. In inflammation of joints, and after injuries and operations generally, opiates not only allay pain, but take away the tendency of the patient to shift his posture, as well as^ the spasms and twitchings dependent on reflex irritation. The best forms of opium have been already mentioned, as the Liquor Opii, and the salts of morphia, as being more likely to agree with deli- cate persons than the crude opium. Of the dose we can only say generally that it should be suffi- cient ; but treating of general principles, cannot enter into details. In order to economise the dose, the remedv should, if possible, be applied near to the diseas^. Thus, a lozenge of gr. of morphia, will allay tickling cough, and an enema ot 10 minims of " liquor" will allay irritation of the rec- tum, or bladder, or womb, better tlian double the dose'through the stomach. The .subcutaneous in- jection of i gr. of acetate of morphia is serviceable in local affections of bones, and joints, and nerves. The patients who require opium most are tho most irritable, exhausted, and intemperate. But this remedv gives the best example of tolerance ; the more it is needed, the better it is borne, ihe youngest infants may take it in appropriate doses, if needed, with the utmost safety; and the rule of preventing inflammation by allaying the initial irritation applies to no case more forcilily than to threatened head mischief from teething, M hen the Kum is divided and the bowels opened, it is better to procure sleep by the compound tincture of camphor, or conium, than to allow the child to pass a restless night through that fear of ojiiates which is taught in books on materia medica. Opium furnishes a racaus of diagnosis in some cases, it