478 PREGNANCY. same point: 1st. In a large proportion of cases nature solves the problem, takes the case into her own hands, and finds relief by the spontaneous induction of prematiu'e labour ; 2nd. In another series of cases where labour has been induced artificially, immediate relief and safety have been obtained ; 3rd. In another series of cases where labour has not occurred spontaneously or been induced by art, formidable catastrophes and even death have happened. Examples of all these issues have been observed in cases of ovarian dropsy complicating pregnancy. Nature can rarely tolerate the simultaneous growth of two tumors in the abdomen such as a cystic ovary, and the gravid womb. The power of adaptation of the ab- dominal and thoracic organs and the extensile capacity of the abdominal walls are alike apt to fail under the enormous and rapid eccentric pressure caused by the double growth within. " Haud bene conveniunt, nec in una sede mo- rantur." One or the other must give way. If the tumor do not so press upon the uterus as to cause it to expel its contents, the growing uterus will act upon the cyst ; it may displace this by pushing it upwards, stretching the pedicle. In one patient, the wife of a surgeon, distress having become urgent, I advised induction of labour. This was not acceded to ; a fortnight later, shock and collapse set in, giving rise to labour at seven months. Death followed speedily. Dissection showed extensive peritonitis with effusion of blood in the abdomen ; the ovarian cyst had ruptured, and the pedicle was not only greatly elongated, but twisted twice upon its axis, strangulating the vessels. The tumor had of course been rolled over, as well as pushed up under the diaphragm by the uterus advancing from below. In such a case it might fairly be contended thatrelief would equally be attained by puncturing the cyst without interfer- ing with the womb, and it may be freely admitted that under some circumstances this proceeding will be preferable. But the following considerations must satisfy us that it is generally safer to empty the uterus first: 1. The displacement of the tumor by the gravid womb, the difficulty of de- fining exactly the line of contact of the two and to what extent the tumor is solid or fluid, must render paracentesis a hazardous step. 2. If the cyst be tapped, it may be only partially emptied, and no sufficient relief is then obtained. 3. The cyst may fill again rapidly, and then the dis tress and the necessity for further proceedings return. 4. A great portion of the cyst may be solid, and then the tapping will have done no good. 5. To empty the uterus is an easy, certain,- and safe operation. 6. The uterus emptied, and the case brought to its simplest con- dition, immediate relief is obtained, and time is gained to watch indications for further action. 7. Opportunity is given to institute accurate examination of the tumor. In addition to these reasons, there is the fact that where tapping of the cyst is practised first, abortion is very likely to follow. Aran relates a case in illustration iLeqons cBiiques siirjes Maladies da IWtiriis, 185«-1860.)] Robert Barnes. PROBANG. A long slender piece of whale- bone, with a bit of sponge at its extremity, in- tended for the examination of the ajsophagus, or the removal of obstructions in it. PROSTATE GLAND, DISEASES OF. [The diseased conditions to which the prostate is liable will be treated in the following order:—Pao- bTATiTis, acute and chronic; Suppuration of the Prostate, Diffuse, and Abscess; Ulcbra- tion; Hypertrophy of the Prostate; Simple Tumors; Atrophy; Cancer, Tubbrcle, and Calculi of the Prostate. Acute Prostatitis is by no means a common affection, if regarded as distinct and unassociated with inflammation of the urethra or bladder. When the latter organ is inflamed, the prostate appears sometimes to suffer, altliough in a secondary man- ner and degree. Sometimes, however, the pro- state is inflamed apparently as a purely idiopathic occurrence, and not from continuity of tissue with adjacent parts. This, excepting the cases produced by violence, as by instruments, &c., is extremely rare. Causes.—The pre-existence of acute inflamma- tion of the urethra of any kind, but especially the gonorrhoeal. Urethral stricture, in an aggravated form, tending as it does to the production of in- flammation and disorganisation of all the parts posterior to it, especially those more immediately adjacent, as the prostate and bladder. The direct application of irritating agents in the shape of strong injections, cauterization, and mechanical violence of various kinds. Inflammation and cal- culi of the bladder. The application of cold and damp to the perinaeum, as by sitting for a long period on moist ground, perhaps most frequently in gouty and rheumatic subjects. Horse exercise is said to be a cause, by means of the concussion occasioned, but evidence is wanting to establish this. That it may aid in producing it when some inflammation of the urethra already exists, is quite possible. Alcoholic drinks may induce prostatic inflammation, gonorrhoea already existing, but only on this condition. Inordinate sexual intercourse, under the last-named circumstances, may also act in a similar way. The symptoms are, at first, a sensation of weight and fulness about the rectum and perinEeum, with pain and uneasiness referred to the neck of the bladder. The patient requires to pass water more frequently than natural, and does so with an in- crease of the existing pain, especially at the close of the act. Subsequently the pain becomes more severe; the act of relieving the bowels at stool produces considerable distress; the stream of urine becomes small, much straining accompanies it, and the pain is exquisitely acute. At a later stage, jf suppuration has taken place, the rectal swelling is softer, local throbbing is experienced, and should a catheter be passed, the patient will complain of excessive pain when the instrument reaches the prostatic part of the urethra. General fever, in a greater or less degree, manifests itself, and rigors mark the onset of suppuration. The treatment should be at first moderately antiphlogistic, alkalies and small doses of antimony- should be given frequently, while the bowels are to be freely opened at the outset, and a gentle ac- tion upon them maintained afterwards. Bleeding by leeches, 10 or 15 in number, roimd tlie anus and on the perineum, often affords greater re let than any other single agent. AfterNvards a hot hip-bath should be taken, a large poultice or hot flannel placed on the perina;mn, and the patient be wrapped up warmly in bed. If retention of urine is urgent and distressing, and is not relieved by