EASES OF. S89 SKIN, DIS decalvans), alopecia areata, or area, is a complete i loss of the hair on one or more circular patches of | the skin of gieatL'r or less dimensions. The hair falls out by the roots, it does not break off as in trichonosis tonsurans, and it leaves the skin smooth, shining, paler than natural, commonly depressed below the surrounding level, and less sensitive than the adjacent skin. Taking the loss of sen- sation and defective nutrition of the skin, with total loss of the hair and absence of colour, as the leading characteristics of this disease, we have been in the habit of regarding it as of neurotic origin, as being in fact a consequence of loss of tone in the branch of the nerve which supplied the faulty skin, as in fact, a kind of limited paralysis of the skin. But the phyto-pathologists claim it as one of their parasitic affections, as the conse- quence of the devouring operations, according to Bazin, of the microsporon Audouini. Gruby de- tected the fungus to which this name has been given on the surface of the epidermis in area; and although the hairs generally fall out by the roots, often attenuated by insufficient nourishment, never- theless some are discovered in the circumference of the patches, which are broken off, and others en- larged at a short distance from the surface ; and on examination, found to owe their varicose con- dition to the presence of granules or sporules in the midst of their fibrous tissue. There are two forms of area; one circular, the other oblong and extending in a serpentine course for some distance upon the head, generally in the direction of the longitudinal nerves of the scalp. To distinguish these latter the ancient name ophiasis has been retained. Bazin gives the title of teigne pelade to porrigo decalvans, and describes two varieties, one simple or ophiasic, the other achromatous: the achromatous form being especially distinguished by deficiency of pigment; and he further divides tlie achromatous form into two sub-varieties, one in which there is no alteration of thickness of the scalp; the other in which the skin is thinned and depressed. Trichonosis versicolor (phy tosis seu pityriasis ver- sicolor) is, as its name implies, unfixed in its pa- thognomonic characters; it is furfuraceous without being a pityriasis, and it is something more than a mere alteration of the pigment of the skin. It has been classed heretofore with diseases of chro- motogenesis; but the presence of that peculiar granular condition of the exuviae of the epidermis, which is the leading character of the dermatophytic diseases, has obtained for it a place in the present - group. Trichonosis versicolor is known by the presence of brownish yellow, greenish and some- times blackish blotches (pityriasis nigra), which take their origin in the cutaneous follicles, where they are deeper in colour than elsewhere, and spreading by the circumference unite with similar blotches to form map like patches of consider- able extent; often occupying the greater part of the trunk of the body. The seat of election of the eruption is the front and sides of the chest, whence it extends to the axilla; and neck ; the shoulders and spinal region of the back, upon which it often descends like a tippet; the flanks, the lower part of the abdomen and inguinal region of the thigns, on which it occupies tiie position ol a short apron, and the bend of the elbows. It is remarkable for its symmetry, corresponding pretty accurately in size and general appearance on both sides of the body. The eruption is accompanied and sometimes preceded by pruritus, and the pru- ritus increases with the progress of furfuraceous exfoliation; sometimes the pruritus is absent, and sometimes the exfuliation; the discoloration being the only symptom of the disease. In this latter case, the affection seems to belong rather to the dyschromatousthan to the pruritic and furfuraceous group, with which it is at present associated. The fungus attributed to trichonosis versicolor is tlie microsporon furfur; the epiderraophyton of Bazin; and, according to tiie doctrines of the supporters of the vegetable theory, the disease never pro- ceeds beyond the first period of eruption in conse- quence of the deficiency of hair on the parts of the skin attacked. According to the views of the supporters of the vegetable origin of the dermatophytic diseases, they are all necessarily contagious; the conclusion is inevitable, for if they produce sporules or seeds in myriads, and these seeds have the property of taking root whenever they rest upon the skin in a favourable spot, they must be highly contagious; the only protection against them being a state of the humours unfavourable for their nutrition; that is, we apprehend, a state of perfect health. In a practical point of view this theory of contagion is not supported; we are not prepared to declare that none are contagious, although we should incline rather to that view than to the opposite. Sub ju- dice lis est. Triclmiosis plica, vel plica polonica, is a disease of the hair, apparently due to granular degeneration of structure; the shaft of the hair is tumid and filled with a viscous sanguineous ichor; the scalp is inflamed and excessively tender, and the hair becomes matted into one or several masses, P. caudiformis et iimltiformis. 20. Affections op the Sebiparous System present considerable variety. They are charac- terised by;—augmentation, diminution and altera- tion of secretion,aiid inflammation and disease of the glands and their adjacent structures. Augmentation of secretion is represented by the term stearrhoea simplex, indicating an excess of secretion which produces an unnatural greasy moisture of the skin. Diminution of secretion, occasioning dryness of the skin, is expressed by the term xeroderma, and is the reverse of stearrhoea. Alteration of secretion is usually accompanied with excess; the secretion is sometimes changed in co/o«r giving rise to tints of yellow or black, stearrhcea flavescens and nigricans; and, sometimes, in consistence, producing a spurious ichthyosis (I. sebacea) of wliich the scales re- semble those of a lizard, sauriosis, rather than of a fish. In sauriosis the dried sebaceous concretion assumes the shape of the interlinear arejE of the skin, and is of no great thickness, sauriosis squamosa ; while in other parts of the same skin, and particularly where tlie sebaceous secretion is more abundant, the scales are lengthened and columnar and assume the shape of spines, sauriosis spinosa, the porcupine disease. RdMion of secre- tion results from alteration in the qualities of the sebaceous substance and its detention in the ex- cretory duct and sometimes in the proper ducts of the gland. This pathological condition of the se- baceous substance may exist without any change in the excretory ducts or it may be the consequence of closure of the apertures of those ducts. Of the former kind are the accumulations known as come-