JOINTS, D or loiig-continuod iutiammatioii, which lias this termination in the membranes of joints." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 216.) When coagulablo lymph is effused, the whole of it does not always adhere to the inflamed surface, but some of it forms flakes which float in the fluid within the joint, in masses large enough to be felt through the capsular ligament. In other instances, the lymph becomes solid, adheres to the inside of the synovial membrane, and becomes vascular. The surface of this adventitious coating is some- times smooth; but occasionally it forms thick projecting masses of different degrees of thickness and length, and so numerous as -to conceal every part of the original smooth surface of the synovial membrane. (See Wilson, On the Skeleton, &c,, p. 319.) [As uncomplicated acute synovitis is never a fatal affection, it is seldom that we have an oppor- tunity of studying its pathology. It would, how- ever, appear from the result of the examination of joints in cases of synovitis from injury, as well as from the result of experiments of Richet, Bonnet, and others, who have induced traumatic synovitis in animals, that there is in the first instance an in- flammatory congestion and vascularity of the membrane, attended by a loss of its peculiar satiny polish. The synovia is then increased in quantity, as well as altered in quality, becoming thin and serous, and after a time intermixed with plastic matters, which are poured out with it. If the dis- ease progress favourably, these products are more or less completely absorbed. If, however, as is more rarely the case, the inflammation go on to an unfavourable termination, the vascularity and swelling of the synovial membrane increase, un- til at last it becomes so turgid and distended with blood and effused fluids that a kind of cheraosis of it results ; a thin, purulent-looking fluid, composed of granular corpuscles floating in a serous liquid, is poured out, and disintegration, with thinning and erosion of the cartilage, and probably complete destruction of the joint, ensues. In other cases, granulations are thrown out on the looser portions of the membrane, which, becoming supplied with blood-vessels, constitute fringed and villous membranous expansions, lying upon the subjacent disintegrated and eroded cartilage. (See Eric/isen's Science of Surgery, ed. 3. p. 678.j] "When the inflammation attains a high pilch, an abscess may occur in the cavity of the joint; the synovial membrane and capsular ligament at length ulcerate ; the pus makes its way beneatii the skin, and is sooner or later discharged through ulcerated openings. An abscess rarely takes place in an important articulation, in consequence of acute inflammation, without the system being greatly deranged. Severe febrile symptoms always afflict the patient, and occasionnlly, delirium and coma taking place, death Itself ensues. Two rapidly fatal cases of ulceration of the synovial membrane, where inatier had formed within it from a sprain of the hip and a contusion of the shoulder, are recorded by Sir Benjamin Brodie, (See Path, and Sitrn. Obs., ed. V. fi5.) [In some of these cases, the inflammatory fever is quickly converted into hectic fever, and ge- nerally hectic symptoms almost immediately begin to show themselves when an abscess has taken place in a large joint. The cartilages now become ISEASES OF. Ill affected, and are either absorbed or ulcerated de^ luiding the surface of the bones. At length' the heads of the latter inflame, and become carious • or the result may be ankylosis. Sir Benjamin Brodie believes that in most cases of caries of the joints the disease begins in the harder textures, subsequently extending to the cartilage or synovial membrane. The same surgeon has also noticed the occasional termination of acute synovitis in suppuration, without its having produced ulcera- tion in the soft or hard textures of the joint. In many cases of pya2mia and phlebitis, pus is found in the joints, as an effect of synovial inflammation without the presence of ulceration. Ordinary synovitis is a disease that seldom attacks young children, but is frequent in adult persons ; this is the reverse of what happens in some of the other diseases of the joints.] The following are the chief symptoms of the acute form of the complaint, described by Sir Benjamin Brodie:— There is pain in the joint, sometimes referred, In the first instance, to a particular spot, afterwards to the joint generally, and it is not at its height before the end of a week or ten days. Sometimes even at this period the pain is trifling, but some- times it is considerable, and every motion of the joint is distressing. In a day or two after Ihe commencement of the pain, the joint is affected with swelling, which at first arises entirely from a collection of fluid in its cavity ; and in the super- ficial joints an undulation may be distinguished. However, after the inflammation has prevailed for some time, the fluid is rendered less perceptible, either in consequence of the synovial membrane being thickened, or the effusion of lymph ; and the more solid the swelling is, the more is the mobi- Wtj of the joint impaired. The form of the diseased joint does not correspond to that of the heads of the bones ; but as the swelling is chiefly caused by the distension of the synovial membrane, its figure depends in a great measure on the situation of the ligaments and tendons, which resist it in certain directions, and allow it to take place in others. Thus, when the knee is affected, the swelling is principally observable on the anterior and lower part of the thigh, where there is only a yielding cellular structure between the extensor muscles and the bone. It is also often consider- able in the spaces between the ligament of the patella and the lateral ligaments ; because at these points the fatty substance is propelled outward by the collection of fluid. In the elbow, the swelling occurs principally above the olecranon, under the extensor muscles of the fore-arm ; and in the ankle it is between the lateral ligaments and the tendons in front of the joint. In the hip and shoulder where the disease is less frequent, the fluid can- not be felt, but the swelling is perceptible through the muscles. In the beginning of this disease in the hip, a fulness is remarked in the gruin, and sometimes also in the nates. The pain is referred, not to the knee, as in casus of ulceration of the car- tiliiges, but to the upper and inner part of the thigh. The pain is aggravated when the patient stands erect, and allows the limb to hang without the foot resting on the ground. It is also increased by motion, but not by pressing the articular siir- fnces against each other. The pain is often very severe, yet not equal to that which occurs when ulceration of the cartilages has taken place. From