JOINTS, DISEASES OF opinion in which we, in common with many others, are fully disposed to concur. This material lias been carefully exiimined by Mr. Erichsen, in an elbow-joint which he excised, and the morbid appearances were so characteristic that, he observes, they may he taken as the type of this peculiar morbid condition, which he has since repeatedly met with in other articulations besides the elbow, more particularly those of the fingers and the knee, and which always, he believes, constitute an incur- able form of disease. He has met with this con- dition only in instances in which the 'articular affection has been of very old standing, and has fallen into a truly chronic state. In the following account of the pulpy degenera- tion of the synovial membrane of Sir B. Brodie, it will, of course, now be understood tiiat the disease occasionally commences in the cartilage itself pri- marily, as already mentioned, but we will not alter Sir Benjamin's account of it.] "The disease originates in the synovial mem- brane, which loses its natural organisation, and becomes converted into a thick pulpy substance, of a light brown, and sometimes of a reddish- brown, colour, intersected by v/hite membranous lines, and from ;J to of an inch, or even more than an inch, in thickness. As this disease advances, it involves all the parts of which the joint is composed, producing ulceration of the cartilages, caries of the bones, wasting of the liga- ments, and abscesses in different places. The complaint has invariably proved slow in its pro- gress, and sometimes has remained nearly in an indolent state for many months, or even for one or two years ; but" (says Sir Benjamin Brodie) " I have never met with an instance in which a real amendment was produced ; much less have I known any in which a cure was effected." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 220, &c.) The whole, or nearly the whole, of the synovial membrane has always been found affected; though if a very early examination were made. Sir B. Brodie conceives that this might not be the case; and in one ex- ample he found only a half of the membrane thus altered, while the rest was of its natural structure. {Path, and Surg. Ohs. p. 94.) This gentleman further acquaints us, that the preceding affection of the synovial membrane is rarely met with except in the knee ; that he has never known an example of it in the hip or shoulder; that it is peculiar to the synovial membrane of the joints; that he has never known an instance of it in other serous membranes, nor even in the synovial mem- branes, which constitute the bursse mucoste and sheaths of tendons; and that it generally takes place in young persons, under or not much above the age of puberty. In fact. Sir B. Brodie has not met with more than one instance in which it occurred after the middle period of life. Mr. Hodgson, of Birmingham, met with one example of it in the ankle, and another in one of the joints of the fingers. [Mr, Pirrie, of Aberdeen, possesses a well-marked example of the disease affecting the synovial membrane of the shoulder-joint, which ho took from a male subject in the anato- mical rooms of the university. (See Prin. and Pnw ofSuryery, ed. 2, p. 422.)] « In the origin of this disease there is a slight degree of stiffness and tumefaction, without pain, and producing only the most trifling inconvenience. These symptoms gradually increase : at last the joint 127 scarcely admits of the smallest motion, the stiffness being greater than where it is the consequence of simple inflammatiiin. The form of the swelling boars some resemblance to that in cases of inflam- mation of the synovial membrane, but it is less regular. The swelling is soft and elastic, and gives to the hand a sensation as if it contained fluid. If only one hand be employed in making the examination, the deception may be complete, and the most experienced surgeon may be led to sup- pose there is a fluid in the joint when there is none ; but if both hands be emploj'ed, one on each side, the absence of fluid is distinguished by the want of fluctuation. " The patient experiences little or no pain, until abscesses begin to form and the cartilages ulcerate, and even then the pain is not so severe as where the ulceration of the cartilages occurs as a primary disease; and the abscesses heal more readily and discharge a smaller quantity of pus than in cases of this last description. At this period the patient becomes affected with hectic fever, loses his flesh, and gradually sinks, unless the limb be removed by an operation." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 251—2.) In the majority of cases Sir Benjamin Brodie believes, that the gradual progress of the enlargement, the stiffness of the joint without pain, and the soft clastic swelling without fluctuation, will enable the practitioner readily to distinguish this from all other diseases of the joints. However, when the diseased syno- vial membrane happens to be distended with a quantity of turbid serum and flakes of coagulable lymph, the complaint somewhat resembles, in its feel and appearance, that stage of common inflam- mation of the synovial membrane, where this part is left thickened, and more or less distended with coagulable lymph ; but the impossibility of reliev- ing the former case by the same means which cure the latter, and due attention to the history of the disease, will prove the difference between them. {Path, and Surg. Ohs. p. 87, ed. 3.) In its early stage, by means of rest, attention to the general health, and cold lotions, the disease may be stayed, but Sir Benjamin Brodie has never known it to be cured. After dwelling upon the partial benefit of treatment, he says :—" But no method with which I am acquainted is capable of doing more than somewhat checking the progress, and somewhat relieving the symptoms of the com- plaint. In every case of which I have had an opportunity of seeing the termination, the ulcera- tion of the cartilages, the formation of abscesses in the cavity of the joint, and the consequent disturb- ance of the patient's general health, have ulti- mately rendered the amputation of the limb neces- sary in order to preserve the patient's life. At this period, therefore, the surgeon is called upon to reconinieiid and urge an operation; but at an earlier period it is a matter of choice with the patient, whether he will live with the incumbrance of a useless limb till the advanced stage of the disease renders its removal imperative, or whether he will submit to the loss of it before the absolute necessity for losing it exists." {Path, and Surn. Ohs. ed. 5.) In' speaking of this form of disease of the joints, Mr. Pirrie observes that he has found it necessary to amputate in every instance which has come under his observation ; he agrees with Sir Benja- min Brodie, therefore, in considering it incurable,