MERCURY. S89 luelannid cancers must be the same as for the medullary." Melanosis was regarded by Laennec as a spe- cies of cancer. {AuscuU. t. ii. p. 33.) The carciite melan':i} of Alibert, and the cuncf.r anthra- ci'/ie o-f .lurine, like other cancerous affections, are reproduced in oiher parts after extirpation, are disposed to soften and be accompanied by ulcer- ation, and all the evils peculiar to cancerous dis- eases. At all events, then, it would seem as if there are modifications of melanosis, which are of malignant character, whether we adopt the doctrine or not, that they are combinations of cancer and melanosis together. The fact of melanosis taking place chiefly in white, gre)-, or light bay horses, is a curious one, seeming to prove that the black matter of this ac- cidental production is deposited in internal organs, as it were, in consequence of such colouring mat- ter not being secreted by the skin. Perhaps, how- ever, as M. Andral observes, there has been too much disposition to generalise on this point ; for M. Rodet has published instances of melanosis in horses of all colours. (See Anat. Paihol. t. i. p. 475; and Rudet. in Journ. deMed. Veterinuire, par M. Dupuy, t. ii. p. 273.) As in other cancerous affections, surgery pos- sesses no means of dispersing a melanotic tumour, tlie only plan of cure being that of removing the new production with a knife. The practicableness and propriety of this will depend upon the situ- ation and extent of the disease, and the inconve- niences experienced from it. (See Cancer.) See Laennec, Bulletins de la Soc. de I'Kcole de iM(5ri., 1806, No. 2, et Traits de I'Auscultnlion, t. i. Gilbert Breschet, Sur une Alteration Orffanique, ap- peieeD^S^n^rescence Noire Mfelanose, &c. 8vo. Paris, Cullen and Carsweil, in Edinb. Med. Chir 1821. Trans, vol. i. 8vo. 1821. MM. Trousseau et Le Blanc, Archives de M^d., Juin 1828. London Med. Reposi- tory, 1823. M. Chomel, Nouv. Journ. de M^d. t. iii. M. Andral, Precis d'Annt. Pathol, t. i. p. 446 8vo. Paris, 1829. Hoberl Carsweil, Illustrations of the Elementiiry Forms of Disease; Fasn. on Melanoma. David Williams, in Trans, of Med. and Surg;. Assoc. i. p 244 Svo. 1836. lii/denham Society's Edition of Rokitanskji, vol. i. p. 279, 1851. I'ayeVs Lec- tures on Surfrical Pathology, vol. ii. p. 483, 1853. MELICERIS (from fieXi, honey, and icripos, w-ax). A tumour of the encysted kind, filled with a substance resembling wax or honey in consist- ence. (See Tumors, Ency.'jted.) MENINOOPHYLAX (from a^JI^iyI, a mem- brane, and <pv\ao jco, to guard). An instrument used by the ancients for guarding the dura mater and brain from injury, in their mode of trepan- ning. MERCURY. (Qaichilve,, Mcrcurius, Hy- drargyrum.) The medicinal virtues of this nn'neral were almost totally unknown to the ancients, who considered it as a poison. It was first employed for purposes of medicine by the Arabians, who made use of it in the form of ointments for the cure of certain diseases of the skin. From the writings of Theiidoric, it appears that mcrcnrv v/as employed in the practice of medicine and surgery as early as tiie thirteenth century. But its use in venereal cases was (irst mentioned in a tract by Almenar, published in l.^lfi. (See Thomson's Dispensatory, p. iO.j. ed. 2.) In mo- dern limes it is one of the nmst important articles of the nuvteria medica ; and though recent inves- tigations will not strictly allow it to be regarded VOL. 11. " i as a specific for the venereal disease, still mercury retain,s the character of being generallv the most expeditious and permanent means of relief. The alleged possibility of curing the venereal disease without mercury by no means cstahlishes the propriety of abandoning this remedy, any more than its unfitness for certain states of the same disease ought to be a reason for not availing our- selves of its superior utility in others. Mercury, taken into the stomach in its metallic state, has no action on the bod}-, except what arises from its weight or bulk. It is not poisonous, as was vulgarly supposed, but perfectly inert. But, in certain states of combination with iodine, chlorine, cyanogen, oxygen, and acids, it produces potent efl'ects on the human frame. [The efiTcct of mercury is to produce rapid transformatiim of tissue, to check effusion, and promote molecular absorp- tion. Mr. Lawrence ascribes to it "the power of arresting that disturbed condition of the capillaries which is the essence of inflammation." {Lectures, p. 100.)] According to circumstances, the habit of the patient, the temperature in which he is kept, the nature of the preparation, and the quantity in which it is exhibited, its action varies. Sometimes it more particularly increases one secretion, sometimes another; but its most cha- riicteristic effect is the increased floAv of saliva, which it generally excites, if given in sufficient quantity. It has been said, that the efficacy of mercury ill curing the venereal disease was an accidental discovery ; but it seems more probable, that the good effects which it produced in cutaneous dis- eases first led to the trial of it in venereal cases which, being frequently attended with eruptions,' ulcers, &c., seemed to present an analogy to the affections in which mercury had already been found successful. In the times immediately following the sup- posed origin of the venereal disease, practitioners only ventured to employ this remedy'with timor- ous caution, so that, of several of their formula, mercury scarcely composed a fourteenth part; and either on this account, or some difference in the disease itself at that period from what is now re- marked, few cures were effected. On the other harui, the empirics, who noticed the little efficacy of these small doses, ran into the opposite extreme, and exhibited mercury in quantities so large, and with so little care, that most of their patient's were suddenly attacked with violent salivation.';, IVe-- quently attended with very dangerous and even fatal symptoms; or such as, after making them lose their teeth, left them pale, emaciated, ex- hausted, tind subject, for the rest of their lives, to tremblings, or other more or less dangerous afiec- tions.^ From these two very opposite; modes of practice, there originated such uncertainty, re- specting what could be expected from meVcurv, and such fears of the consequences which might result from its employment, that every plan was eagerly adopted which offered the least chance of cure without having recourse to this mineral, A medicine, however, so powerful, and whose salutary cflS^ects had been watched by attentive practitioners amidst all its inconvenienceSs could not sink into oblivion. After efforts had been uwde in vain to discover an equally cllicacious siibslitule for it, a medium was pursued between the timid methods of those practitioners who liad first nd- .1