3 0 ' t- 8 serves, gradually and perceptibly into the siir rounding parts ; but teriiiiitatiny rather abruptly. Its base is hardy and the edges a little jirominent. When it begins on the frienuin, or near it, that part is very commonly wholly destroyed, or a hole is often made through it by ulcenition. When venereal matter is applied to the body of the penis, or front of the scrotum, where the cuticle is thicker than that of the' glans penis and pre- puce, the chancre generally makes its appearance in tlie form of a pimple, which commonly forms a scab, in consequence of evaporation. The first scab is generally rubbed off, after which a second, still larger one, is produced. When the disease is more advanced, it is often attended with inflammation peculiar to the habit, becoming in many instances more diffused, and often producing pliymosis and paraphymosis. However, according to Mr. Hunter, there is yet a hardness around the sores, which is peculiar ta such as are caused by tlie venereal vivus, particularly those on the prepuce. Mr. Carmichael also, in his arrangement of primary ulcers on the penis, considers the true chancre as being particularly distinguished by its hardened base, which be compares to a piece of cartilage under the skin. It is to be observed, however, that, by the true chancre, or primary syphilitic ulcer, he does not signify that it is the only sore from which secondary symptoms may arise; but his observations lead him to regard it as the cause of such constitutional effects as belong to what he deems the true form of syphilis, or that in which the use of mercury is the moat decidedly indicated. It would give me sincere pleasure to find any agreement, on this part of the subject, amongst other observers. The reader, indeed, must already know that the hardened base, which both Hunter and Caimichael have regarded as a distinguishing characteristic of a true chancre, is not found to be so by other gentlemen, who have most impartially investigated this point. Thus, Dr. Hennen observes, '• We are not in possession of the knowledge of any invariable characteristic symptoms, by which to discriminate the real nature of the primary sore, and we are equally at a loss in many of the secondary symptoms, I am well aware that some practitioners have assumed to themselves the possession of a 'tactus erudi- tus,' by which they can at once distinguish a chancre, or a venereal ulcer, or eruption, in which mercury is indispensable, from one of a different nature; but I have seen too many instances of self-deception to give them all the credit that they lay claim to. It would be by no means difficult to show that the high round edge, the scooped, or excavated sore, the preceding pimple, the loss of substance, /lie hardened base and edge, whether circumscribed or dijf'used, and the tenaciously ad- hesive discharge of a very fetid odour, are all ob- servable in certjiin states and varieties of sores unconnected with a venereal origin. The hardened edge and base, particularly, can be produced artifi- cially by the application of escharotics to the glans, or body of the penis, of a sound person, and, if any nlceiation, or warty excrescence, previously exists "II these parts, this effect is still more easily pro- luced." (Oh Military Surgery, 2nd ed. p. 5] 7.) Now. if it be asked whether the chancre with a i'ardeiied base and prominent edge is distin- guished by its not admitting of cure without vo;.. II. VENEREAL DISEASE. o-i'j mercury, and by any regularity or peculiarity in the nature of the secondary symptoms when they originate from such an ulcer, modern experience denies the validity of both these criteria. If Mr. Rose's excellent paper be consulted, the reader will find that this gentleman certainly cured, witPi- out the aid of mercury, ulcers which had a de- cidedly marked induration of the margins and bases, by which the syphilitic chancre, according to Mr. Carmichael, is easily distinguished. {Med.~ Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 421, &c. ; also Guthrie, vol. cit. p. 576.) Sufficient evidence has already been detailed to satisfy any impartial mind that, so far as the eye can teach us, no kind of primary sore has yet been satisfactorily proved to be the cause of only one set of peculiar constitutional symptoms ; but, on the contrary, that a great variety of appearances in the skin, throat, &c. may follow sores which, in- asmuch as their external characters are concerned, seem exactly alike. The only partial exception to this remark is the great frequency of papular eruptions after superficial sores^a point on which both Mr. Carmichael and Mr. Rose agree, though the latter gentleman does not represent even this connection as constant. Dr. Colles joins several other modern writers in the statement, that ''•pri.inai-y venereal ulcers present an almost endless variety of character. I would define a primary venereal ulcer (he ob- serves) to be one which is remarkably slow in yielding to ordinary, mild, local treatment, but which is curable by mercury, and which, if not so cured, is lilxly to be followed, in two or three months, by secondary symptoms, which again are also curable by mercury. If then there be, as I affirm there is, an almost endless variety in chan- cres, how can we decide on the nature of primary ulcers, so as to pronounce some to be syphilitic, and others to be mere common sores, or simple excoriations B I reply, that we are to be guided in our deci sion, by observing, first, that inany of these luspioious. ulcerations cannot be referred to any class of common ulcers, as they strikingly differ from them ; and, secondly, by attending to the course which tliese take, tvhen not interfered with by any stimulant, or caustic application, and when treated only with some mild ointment, or cold water. If, under these circumstances, we find that, a,fter eight or ten days, such ulcers shoiv no disposition to heal, and if, at the same time, there be o total absence of any cause, such as defect in tlie general health, to account for this obstinate con- dition of the local disease, we may t/ien pronounce them to be syphilitic. But 1 repeat that the local applications must have been of the mildest kind • for almost any primary venereal ulcer may be made to heal by the use of stimulating applica- tions, even for so short a time as one or two days " (Dr. Colles, On Ven. Dis., p. 75.) These remarks of Dr. Colles appear to me ju- dicious, though they involve some questions at which we shall presently arrive. On this part of the subject, Mr. "Wallace took great pains to throw useful light, and especially by attempting a classification of primary phagedenic venereal ulcers. For some forms of these diseases he may, however, have been too partial to mer- cury, as it was one of his maxims sometimes to aim at bringing the patient as rapidly as possible under its inliucnce. " When (tays he) a pliaije-