1 LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. pus ; the two latter being often rather sudden in their appearance, and often following immediately on a cold or catarrh or some stomach-derangement. The moment the secretions from the lining of the sac become too thick to escape easily, either through the canaliculi or nasal duct, they appear at once to aggravate the inflammation hy mechanical disten- sion ; and I was enabled to assign much benefit to the opening of the punctum, merely on the ground of the greatly increased facility, with which the discharge could then escape on to the eye, either spontaneously or on slight pressure. The punctum too, having, no doubt, the attributes of a spliincter, is often highly sensitive, and its lips turgid and angry, when the passages are inflamed ; and great immediate relief to the whole disease seems often to follow its division—much, perhaps, of the same kind as that which follows the division of the sphincter ani in irritable fissure of the rectum. The punctum is most conveniently slit up as follows:— The patient sits in a chair and leans the head against the chest of the siu-geon, who stands behind and bends over. For dividing e. a. the left lower punctum, the ring finger of the Mt hand is placed on the skin over the lower edge of the orbit and fixes it there, while tightening or relaxing the lower canal by a sliding movement of the skin upon the bone, the punctum being at the same time everted. The right hand now inserts the No. 1 probe while the canal is relaxed, and then places the probe between the hinder finger and thumb of the left hand, which holds it in the canal, and further everts the punctum by turning the probe downwards on the cheek, while the ring finger stretches and fixes the canal by a sliding movement of the skin outwards, toward the malar bone. A fine, sharp-pointed knife held in the right hand now slits up the canal on the everted conjunctival aspect, from the punctum, as far as the caruncule, and the probe is raised on its point out of the canal, to make sure that the edge of the punctum has not escaped division. Care should be taken not to slope this little incision obliquely th rough the tissues it severs, as there is then a broader surface exposed and greater chance of union by the first intention. To avoid this, it is in all cases desirable to pass a probe across the line of incision, on each of the few ensuing days, to break through the adhesions if they form, and to secure patency. If the punctum is slit up when already inflamed and discharging pus, there is much less disposition to this primary union than when it is done for simple epiphora. Having slit up one or both punctn, as may seem desirable, the canals are at once probed to ascer- tain whether they are of full size. Where the muds of the sac regurgitate towards the eye, there is usually no contraction that may not be at once overcome by a full-sized probe (No. 6): but it is well to have noted beforehand, whether regurgita- tion occurs from both puncta, and in the first in- stance to be content, in ordinary cases, with slitting up the lower punctum, inasmuch as this usually suffices for the cure, and it is through this that the passages can be most conveniently probed in their whole extent, down to the nose. _ In examining the canal for stricture, some expe- rience and tact are requisite to avoid errors, just as in the examination of urethral strictures. The iii- 17;i strument should be handled very delicately, and the probe held by the surgeon in the same way as when the puncta have to be slit, and he should of course have in his mind's eye at the moment the anatomy of the parts with which he is dealing—no force should be used. If No. 6 will not pass, No. 4 or No. 2 may be tried, and if these fail, it is better to postpone further proceedings, till a few days have elapsed and the slit in the canal is per- manently established. Speaking loosely of the general result of a great many cases, I may say that I have not found any stricture in the canals in more than one-fourth, and that the common situ- ation of the stricture has been close to the sac, less frequently about the middle part of the canal. The stricture of the middle parts is commonly in old cases, where there is rigid thickening of the coats, and probing by instruments successively larger suffices to dilate it. The canal should be stretched lengthwise as the probe reaches it, as its passage is thereby facilitated; for it is easy to fold the canal before the point of the probe. The greatest care is to be taken to proceed gently and not too rapidly; as, if a false passage be formed and the wall of the canal torn, the injured part is liable to become more rigidly occluded. If the exploratory probe is arrested at the point, where the canals coalesce and join the sac, the fact may be known, by noticing that the skin near the tendo oculi is moved when the probe is moved and an elastic resistance is experienced; whereas, if the probe has entered the sac, it hits against the inner bony wall, and the skin is motionless. Where the sac is not distended, attention to this point is par- ticularly necessary, and it is also requisite that the canal should be held on the stretch by the finger on the cheek, otherwise the outer wall of the sac may be pressed against the inner, and give a wrong indication, for the opposite walls are very near each other. Care must also be taken, when an obstacle is encountered, to turn the point of the probe in different directions, urging it gently for- wards in each, for otherwise it may merely be caught in a fold of membrane at the orifice of tlie sac. If there is decided obstruction still, the probe may be forced here, and if it does not then at once pass into the sac (and particularly if, the sac being distended, there is no regurgitation by the canal) I have recourse to the canula lancet described in the Annules d'Ocuiislique of 185S-G, and, after piercing the obstruction, immediately pass the largest-sized probe (No. 6). Such strictures of the canals, when once they admit a No. 6 probe, are treated by its repeated use at suitable intervals, in conjunction with the treatment of the passages below, and therefore they need not be further separately dwelt upon. I have now to describe the subsequent" steps of the treatment. In all cases I prepare to explore the nasal duct, by pushing down the No. 6 probe into the nostril. When the sac discharges pus or mucus, this always has to be done again and again, in order thoroughly to open the duct, and even where the sac is not inflamed, it is satisfactory to have passed the probe once. The passage of a probe or style in the old method, through an orifice in tlie skin, is not always an easy task. There is frequently a firm closure of the nasal duct, requiring the use of con- siderable force to overcome it, and a surgeon with-