22S and therefore ought to he completely divided, (p. 7); hut he contends that two, and sometimes three lines of the substance of the base of the gland should be left undivided; which, he asserts,is a matter of great importance, because the untouched portion around the orifice of the bladder prevents effusion of urine and the formation of gangrene or fistulae between that part and the rectum, (p. 22.) After this statement of one of the great prin- ciples which Scarpa wishes to be observed in the performance of the lateral operation, a question or two naturally arises. Are we then to conclude that the plan of making a free and direct incision into the bladder ought to be abandoned ? We have seen that an apprehension of effusion ■f urine, gangrene, fistute, &c., is the only reason nssigned by Scarpa for his aversion to making a complete division of the side of the prostate gland and orifice of the bladder. But, I would inquire, do we find extravasation of urine between the rectum and the bladder, and gangrene, and fistulas, 8 3 frequent after lithotomy in England, as to render it probable that these ill consequences can ever proceed from our usual mode of dividing completely, not only the side of the prostate gland, but also the adjoining part of the bladder ? Are such bad effects so often experienced jn this country as to constitute a material source of un- easiness in the mind of a surgeon about to under- take lithotomy ? Do they form a substantial reason for abandoning the maxim of always endeavouring, as far as circumstances will allow, to make an incision of sufficient size for the easy removal of the calculus ? And would not Scarpa's method of stretching and dilating the wound, in order to get the stone out of the bladder, often dangerously prolong the operation, lead to much mischief from the repeated use of the forceps, cause serious con- tusion and laceration of the parts, and, for all these reasons, render inflammation of the bladder and peritoneum very likely to follow I have seen the lateral operation performed an immense number of times, either with various kinds of gorgets, beaked knives, the lithotome cache, or common scalpels. In most of these ex- amples the avowed intention of the surgeon was to make a free opening into the bladder. I do not mean, however, to say that this was always actually accomplished, since the had construction of the instruments employed, and other causes, sometimes frustrated the wise design of the opera- tor. But what was the consequence ? Generally speaking, those surgeons who made only a small incision into the bladder, and kept their patients a long while upon the operating table ere they succeeded in getting out the stone, by the repeated and forcible use of the forceps, had the mortifica- tion to see very few of their patients recover, a large proportion of them being carried off' by peritonitis on the third or fourth day after the operation. On the contrary, when the incision was ample and direct, so that the" calculus could be easily and gently removed, the patients were almost always saved. For the first six or seven years of the long time during which I enjoyed frequent opportunities of seeing lithotomy performed in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, gorgets were invariably used, most ol which made an insufficient opening. The conse- qvioncc was that many of the patients were de- LITHOTOMY. tained a long while upon the operating table before the stone could be extracted ; and some considerable numbers were lost by peritonitis. Afterwards, however, in the same institution, common scalpels and beaked knives were gene- rally used ; a freer opening was mostly made ; and the proportion of deaths from peritonitis was strikingly lessened. The following observation, made by Mr. Mar- tineau, is also worthy of particular^attention:—"In the first years of my practice," says he, " I was not very successful; and often witnessing many iin- toward circumstances in myself and others, which appeared to arise from the use of the cutting gorget, I determined to lay that instrument aside, and employ the knife only, and the blunt gorget as a conductor for the forceps." (Med. CItir. Trans. p. 405.) Now, when we remember that this gentleman lost only two out of eighty-four patients on whom he operated, his remarks are of great importance; and his cases, and the other facts, which I have specified, strongly impress my mind with the truth of all that I have urged respecting the advantages of making a free opening, and in the best direction for the easy passage of the stone outward. In Mr. Martineau's manner of operating, it is true he does not make the external wound parallel to that in the bladder, as I venture to reconnnend, but directs it nearly in a line with the raphe, a circumstance which ma}--, perhaps, account for his continuing the use of the blunt gorget as a con- ductor for the forceps. Neither is his internal incision carried downwards and outwards, as Bertrandi, Desault, and many other judicious sur- geons, consider most advantageous. But these defects (if I may presume to call them so) are rendered of less consequence by the rule, which Mr. Martineau observes, of making his first inci- sions long and deep, and avoiding all stretching and laceration of the parts. Like Langenbeck, he uses a staff, the groove of which is much wuler and deeper than usual, and therefore more easily felt. This instrument his assistant holds, in tlie way preferred by Scarpa, and nearly in an upriglit straight direction." After the first incision (says Mr. Martineau), I look if the staff is not altered in its situation, and then, feeling for the gi-oove, I introduce the point of the knife into it, as low down as I can, and cut the membranous part of the urethra, continuing my knife througli the prostate into the bladder, when, instead of en- larging the wound downwards, and endangermg the rectum, I turn the edge of the blade towards the ischium, and make a lateral enlargement of the wound in withdrawing the knife." (See Medi Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 409.) This description is particularly interesting, as coming from a gentle- man who had so much experience and success. With respect to the degree of importance which ouRht to be attached to the fear of effi.sion of urine between the bladder and rectum, gangrene, fistula?^ Sic, I believe that they are inconveniences which are not commonly observed after lithotomy in tins country. In two or three instances only 1 lia>e known the urine come through tli« wound longer than usual, and these cases ended well. As lor the extravasation of urine and sloughing, 1 hall merely remark, that although there cannot be n doubt of their occasional occurrence, they have not taken place after any of the numerous opera-