726 THORAX, INJURIES OF THE. the air gaining admission into the posterior media-' stinum and hence into the cellular tissue of the neck, and thus over the whole body. The treatment of pneumo-thorax will depend on its extent, and the urgency of the effects it pro- duces. If slight, and causing little annoyance, it may be left alone, as the air will in time become absorbed, but if the quantity be great, and the effects such as to threaten life, vent must be got either by enlarging the original wound if there was one, or by'piercing the chest with a trocar and canula. Emphysema is most apt to occur in those wounds ■which do not allow of a free external escape for the air which passes from a wounded lung, and it is commonly combined with pneumo-thorax. Its occasional connection with injuries other than wounded lung has been already alluded to, as well as to its being usually local, but sometimes it is general over the greater part of the body. When emphysema occurs after a wound pene trating the chest we find an elastic, puffy, crack ling, painless swelling, covered by unchanged or unusually pale skin. This swelling is compres- sible, but rises again so soon as the pressure is removed ; and it may occasionally be made to change its position by pressure applied along its surface. The swelling begins in the lips of the wound, and spreads therefrom. It may cause great oppression and even danger by the compression it gives rise to, and the asphyxia thus produced. The recognition of this affection is easy. It is to be managed by removing the cause as much as possible, and jhen, if necessary (which it seldom is), by punctures or scarifications setting free the air. These punctures should be made as near as possible to the point at which the air escapes into the cellular tissue, if that can be determined and got at, care being, however, taken not to open up the seat of fracture if a rib is broken. Bandages do little good, and may be highly injurious, as they usually greatly increase the oppression; but if pressure over the swelling or fixture is wanted, strips of adhesive plaster will be sufficient. If the air is being sucked in during respiration, the wound must be carefully closed so as to prevent it. If required by the urgency of the case the congestion of the lungs must be relieved by general bleeding, but it is the rare exception that emphy- sema alone calls for constitutional measures. It is in large, free, direct wounds of the thorax that the lung is apt to collapse, and if this occurs then the breathing space may be so diminished as to become dangerous. The greater the extent of the lung thus collapsed the greater tiie evil. The dyspncea, prostration, restlessness, and anxiety which attends such interference with the respiration will of course be proportioned to the extent of lung substance involved. By ausculta- tion and percussion we can recognise the absence of pulmonary tissue, and the-substitution of air or fluid at the part where the lung should be. The ribs are motionless, and the decubitus is on the affected side. In large open wounds the lung ■will probably be seen in action through the aper- ture, when from adhesions or other cause it does not collapse. If not bound down by inflamma- tory adhesions a collapsed lung will in time pro- bably regain its position, and no attempt to distend it by any such absurd and futile measures aa making the patient blow into a bottle, or applying a syringe or cupping glass to the wound to draw it out, should be tried. Pneumatocele, or protrusion of the lung into, or through the parietes, may be either primary or secondary—occurring either at the time when the wound has been received, or at a late date through the cicatrix. In rare cases it has been seen when no external wound existed at all, but where the ribs have been fractured ; and it has been known to arise even after severe straining, as in child- bearing. The size and shape of the protrusion may vary considerably, according to the nature of the wound, and it may be reducible or not. It is where the free edge of the lung comes into con- tact with the chest that this accident is most apt to occur. The usual seat is in front, on a level with the nipples. There adhesions are not so common as in other parts, and the lung move- ments are more free. When primary, and in an open wound, the nature of the tumor cannot be mistaken, as it can be seen and handled, but when covered with soft parts it is recognised by being elastic, non-fluctuant, and soft. It is in- creased by cough and expiratory efforts, and recedes on suspension of the respiration, and on pressure applied during inspiration, and it can be kept reduced by pressure. When it has been reduced the finger can discover the hole by which it es- caped. An impulse is observed on coughing. If the tissues are not much thickened a peculiar sen- sation of fine crepitation suggestive of its nature is communicated to the hand passed over its surface. The percussion is clear, and the respiratory move- ment strong, especially during expiration. The overlying skin retains its natural colour. It is only with pointing empyoema that this affection can be confounded, but empyoema is dull on percussion, there is absence of the respiratory murmur and thrill, and there is fluctuation. If the collection contain both pus and air, then the emphysematous crackle observed in such circum- stances might mislead, but there will be, when such a tumor is reduced, a distinctive gurgle which is not noticed in protrusion of the lung. Again, an abscess in the walls of the chest has no impulse communicated to it by a cough, nor will it possess a vesicular murmur, and it cannot be reduced by pressure. There will also be fluc- tuation. When a pneumatocele is stnuigulated, then its character will vary considerably. It will become congested and dense, and ultimately may become gangrenous and slough. The treatment of pneumatocele consists m gentle reduction, the wound if necessary being cautiously enlarged to enable this to be accomplished. It may be returned wholly within the chest, or only just within the wound, where itmay remain, and by con- tracting adhesions serve to close the aperture herme- tically. The external wound should then be closed. If the protrusion has been strangulated and become gangrenous, it should be allowed to separate spon- taneoush', and a graduated compress applied u necessary to counteract aaiy further tendency to protrusion. If tlie part is long of separating, ana any harm arise therefrom, we may apply a ligature to the protruded portion or excise ' serious evil is likely to attend the delay, it is better to wait for spontaneous separation. Foreign bodies should, at as early a date as pos sible, be removed from wounds of the cliest, whether such bodies lie in the external wound, or