f VARICOCELE, the action of the muscle otherwise tends to ecpa- riite the surfaces, nnd especially to open the lower angle of the wound, but an incision on one side only is sufficient for the purpose; it is unnecessary to cut it through on both sides, as has been re- commended. In the still more severe cases in which the recto-vaginal septum is torn for a greater or less extent upwards, the operation above described will be insufficient, as a recto-vaginal communica- tion would be almost certain to remain. It is therefore necessary iirst to unite the recto-vaginal septum, and afterwards to restore the perinteum. To unite tiie recto-vaginal septum, the edges must be pared on each side, and a sufficient number of wire sutures inserted. These may be secured by simply twisting their ends, no quill suture being required. When union is complete and firm, which will usually be at the end of about three weeks, the second operation for the restoration of the perinccum may be undertaken on the plan already described. In the rare case of central rupture of the peri- nseum, the better plan will be to divide the re- maining anterior portion and then to proceed in the ordinary way.] James R. Lane. 901 VAGINA, PROLAPSUS OR INVER- SION OF.—According to Sabatier and Levret, the lining of the vagina is alone displaced; but Richter, Chelius, and other writers describe the vagina as liable to two kinds of prolapsus: in one, all its tunics are included in tlie protru- sion; in the other, its lining membrane only is relaxed. In the first case the inversion of the vagina is associated with prolapse of the uterus, and is a necessary consequence of that condition (see Utkrus, Prolapsus op). It is only in the latter case that the uterus may not be involved. {Chelius, Handb. der C/iir. b. i. p. 771.) ' Occasionally a prolapsus of the posterior portion of the vagina is observed in consequence of vaginal /jerai'a (see Hernia) ; though in some cases of dropsj-, a circumscribed protrusion of the vagina, in the form of a cyst filled with fluid, is sometimes observed. [Again, a prolapsus of the anterior wall of the va- gina, together with the bladder, is not unfrequent, and constitutes the condition known as vaginal cystocele (see Dladder, Diseases of), while, similarly, prolapse of the posterior wall with the rectum forms a vaginal rectocele (seeliECTocELE). A prolapsus of the inner membrane of the va- gina is seldom more than half an inch or an inch ill extent, and is usually limited to the posterior and lower part of the canal, which is somewhat loosely attached to the rectum ; whereas the ante- rior wall being firmly connected with the neck of the bladder, and with the urethra which passes throii|^h it, is seldom, if ever, displaced,] This condition, while small and recent, may siimetiines be removed by astringent applications. When, how- ever, it is of long standiug, much expectation of success from this treatment cannot be entertained, and in such a case a prolapsus of the inner mem- brane of the vagina, when limited to one part of it, may always be safely extirpated. (See Rickkr, An- fammjr. der Wttndarzn. b. vii, chap. 4. J. C. L'ider, Pio<jr. \-3. Bj Var/incB Ulcri ProcidciUia. Jen. 17yl. A/. J. Chelius, Ihmdb. der Cltir. b. i. p. 770. Ileidelb. 182e.) VARICOCELE (from vario), a disteiuled vein, and ktiAt], a tumor); sometimes called Cirsocele (see the word), is a varicose distension aud en- lar|iement of the spermatic veins; and, wliether considered on account of the pain which it some- times occasions, or on account of the wasting of the testicle, which now and then follows, it may truly be called a disease. It may readily be mis- taken for a descent of a small portion of omentum. The uneasiness which it occasions is a dull kind of pain in the back and testicle, which is generally relieved by suspension of the scrotum. In the course of the cord, an irregular swelling, consisting of several enlarged vessels, can be felt, which swelling has a pyramidal shnpe, with the broad part towards the testicle and the narrow part toward* the abdominal ring. When the patient lies on his back, the tumor diminishes, or disap-' pears altogether, because this posture promotes the return of the venous blood; but when the patient stands up it reappears, because the column of blood in the spermatic vein has then to ascend against its gravity. Moderate pressure with the hand will make the tumor disappear, not all at once, but gradually; and, when the pressure is taken away, the swelling reappears ; not sud- denly, but in a slow and gradual manner. It has been fancied to resemble a collection of earth- worms; but, whoever has an idea of a varicose vessel will not stand in need of an illustration by comparison. It is most frequently confined to that part of tlie spermatic cord which is below the abdominal ring; and the vessels generally become larger as they approach the testis. M. Blandin refers to instances of varicocele of both sides so large as to conceal the testes and the penis. (See Did. de Med. ei de Chir. vol. xv. p. 566.) In the greater number of cases, the disease remains stationary and occasions no serious incon- venience, so that many persons have it without being aware of the circumstance. In other in- stances, however, it produces a sense of weight, and even acute pain in the testicle. Sir Benjamin Brodie had a patient in whom the pain was very severe, in consequence, as was suspected, of the varicose cluster pressing on some nervous filament. (See Land. Gaz. Med. vol. xiii. p. 378.) [Occasional sharp neuralgic pains are not un- frequent in this affection, but the pain is not dependent upon the size of the tumor, for it is generally most severe in recent and rapidly formed cases where the varicocele has not attained a large size, and is due, no doubt, to the sudden compres- sion of a branch of nerve: the co-existence of varicose veins and neuralgic pain is often met with in the lower extremities and other parts of the body from a similar cause. As a rule, a large varicocele which has been gradually formed is not a painful affection, and is productive of incon- venience simply from its weight and the sense of dragging upon the cord.} When a varicocele becomes large and is of long standing, it is apt to produce atrophy of the tes- ticle, in cunscqucnce of the imperfect circulation of blood through it, resulting from the dilated condition of the spermatic vein and its branches. Pott had seen this organ so wasted as hardly to be discernible; and Mr. S. Sharp noticed the same tiling. Pott had also observed the same effect from the injudicious application of n truss to a varicocele; tlie vessels, by means of the pres-