730 THROAT, WOUNDS OF. from doing anj-thing to the breach of continuity ill the tube itself. The best plan would be to have recourse to antiphlogistic means, and to introduce a flexible elastic gum catheter, from one of the nostrils into the oesophagus, for the pur- pose of convej'ing nourishment and medicines into the stomach, without any risk of their passing out at the woimd. An instrument of this kind will lie in the above situation for any length of time, with- out occasioning much inconvenience ; and besides being advantageous for injecting nourishment and medicines down the passage, and keeping them from issuing through the wound, it prevents all necessity for the wounded oesophagus to act, and become disturbed by the action of the muscles of deglutition, when there is occasion to take any kind of liquids, whether in the way of medicine or food. The outer wound should be brought together, and treated on common principles. When persons cut their throats, as I have ex- plained, they do not often divide the carotid artery, owing to their incision being usually made high up in the neck, where this vessel has attained a more backward situation. When any serious hse- iTiorrhage does arise, it is sometimes from the lower branches of the lingual artery, but more frequently from the superior thj^roid arteries. Such arteries may occasion a fatal bleeding, which indeed would more frequently be the event than it actually is, did not the patient often faint, in which state the bleeding spontaneously ceases, and gives time for the arrival of surgical assistance. I need hardly observe, that these arteries are to be tied, and that this important object is the first to which the surgeon should direct his attention. The danger of bleeding to death being obviated, as soon as possible, the other requisite measures may be more deliberately executed. With respect to extensive wounds of the trachea, or larynx, the same plan of conveying food and medicines into the stomach, through an elastic gum catheter, introduced from one of the nostrils down the oesophagus, is highly proper, though too much neglected ; for nothing creates such dis turbance of the wound as the convulsive elevation and depression of the larynx and trachea in the act of swallowing. When the larynx or trachea is cut, the patient's power of forming the voice is more or less im- paired, in consequence of the air passing into and out of the lungs, chiefly through the wound. Be sides air, a considerable quantity of the natural mucus of the passage is also continually coming out of the wound. The grand means of healing wounds of the larynx and trachea, are a proper position of the head, and a rigorous observance of quietude. By raising the patient's head with pillows, and keeping ills ciiin close to his breast, the edges of the wound in the skin, and in the trachea or larynx, are placed in contact, even without any other assistance, un- less the division be exceedingly large. Some sur- geons endeavour to promote the effect of a suitable position with strips of sticking plaster, and some- times with a suture or two, but not always. These strips, however, are not perhaps of much utility at first, and mnny practitioners omit tliem altogether. On this point, Mr. Listen believes that " no pur- pose 18 to be gained by closing the wound accu- rately by stitches and plasters. If it extend late- rally to a great extent, a single point of suture may be inserted near each extremity, of course onlj' through the integamcnt; but the centre cannot heal, and no attempt need or ought to be made to close it." {On Praclical Surgery, p. 339.) Qyt the necessity for sutures must depend on the ex- tent of the division ; for unless most of the circle of the larynx or trachea be cut, and position be neglected, the wound in it will not gape. The stitches should never be passed through the lining of the trachea, as this method would be likely to make it inflame, and occasion considerable cough- ing and irritation, attended with pernicious effects. The plan of completely closing wounds of the larynx and trachea with sutures is much less fre- quently followed at the present day than formerly^. I have seen many cases in which the patient would have died of suff'ocation, if the stitches had not been quickly removed. Perhaps no surgical writer has insisted upon this danger so much as Mr. Liston. " The immediate apposition of the di- vided surfaces (he observes) is attended with great danger, the blood as it flows from the vessels, and encouraged by the confinement of soft coagulum, passes by suction into the windpipe : some of it may be ejected ; but the lower part of the tube is not very irritable, and the power of coughing is diminished, so that great part trickles down, and fills gradually the extreme branches of the tube. The breathing is quickened and slightly embar- rassed ; yet everything may be supposed to promise well: the patient, however, in making some slight exertion, without warning to the inexperienced, falls suddenly into a state of asphyxia, and is lost. The same thing happens at a later period from the secretion of serum, or the accumulation of muco- sity." A case then follows, in which a young woman in University College Hospital, who cut her throat, and had had the irregular incision in thyroid cartilage closely sewed up previously to her admission, was at the point of death from asphyxia from this cause and the further inter- ruption of respiration by a clot of blood. The patient was saved by instantly cutting the stitches and taking away the coagulum. " By position of the head, by approximating the chin to the top of the sternum, securing it there by the turn of a double-headed roller, the ends being fixed to a band embracing the chest, gaping and retraction of the edges are prevented, and the parts put in a favourable state of union by the second intention." So long as air passes through the wound, no dress- ing need be applied, the discharges being wiped away, and the neck covered " with a muslin or gauze handkerchief, a worsted comforter, or Jef- frey's respirator." (See Lislo7i on Practical Surgery, p. 338—40.) Mr. Liston notices an error sometimes commit- ted of feeding the patient through the wound in the neck, and not promoting the healing of the part by position, so that the surfaces cicatrise separately. " The voice is consequently lost, the patient is rendered perfectly incapable of exertion, not having any control over his respiration, and being thus unable to keep his chest expanded. The patient is moreover put in great jeopardy ; he is subject to bronchitic attacks, and to inflammatory oedema of the orifice through which the air entere. He may thus be cut off suddenly if in the hands ot ill-informed or inexperienced surgeons, or he may be worn out by cough, and profuse expectoraUon. It is possible occasionally to remedy even such