199 LITHOTOMY. bliuklei' and tlic sensation of pressure on tlie rectum are I'requentiy owing to the weiglit of tlie stone, &f., but these may proceed from a diseased en largemont of the prostate ghuid. Cliildren gene rally, and grown persons frequently, are subject to a prolapsus ani from the irritation of a stone in the bladder; but it will likewise be produced by any irritation in those parts." (Sir J. JEar/e.) The rest of tlie symptoms arc equally fallacious; a scirrhous enlargement of the os tincie, and disease oftiie kidneys may occasion a copious quantity of mucus in the urine, with pain, irritation, &c. "The least fallible'sign (says Sir James Earle) whidi I have remarked, is the patient making the first portion of urine with ease, and complaining of great pain coming on when the last drops are expelled. This may readily be accounted for from the bladder being at first defended from contact with the stone by the urine, and, at last, being pressed naked against it. But to put the matter out of all doubt, and actually to prove the exist- ence of a stone in the bladder, we must have recourse to the operation of sounding." [The rational sj'mptoms of stone may be thus briefly described. Pain and a sensation of weight about the neck of the bladder are two of the earliest symptoms. At the very early stages, while the bladder may be supposed to be as yet health}', the pain is dull and heav}'; but this symptom is liable to many variations, being some- times sharp and acute I'rora the commencement. As the disease advances the pain nsually be- comes more severe and constant—circumstances which depend rather on the lesions produced by the stone, than on simple increase in size of the foreign body. The pain now begins to extend to the hypogastric region, to the perineum, groin, and thighs. Distiu'bance of tlie functions of the urinary organs now manifests itself. The bladder becomes more or less irritable and cannot retain its con- tents, the calls to make water are frequent, and the expulsion of the last drops is attended with pain, which shoots along the perineum and penis, and centres in the glans. From this period the ■sufferings of the patient steadily augment, but, as we have remarked, tliey are chiefly dependent on or proportioned to the morbid conditions of the genito-urinary organs. Some of these conditions, however, tend to diminish, rather than to increase, the sufferings of the patient. Thus, sliould the calculus become fixed, as is the case witli encysted calculi, it may remain for years in the bladder without giving any indication of its presence. Again, when the prostate is enlarged, the bladder partially para- lysed, and the power of expulsion in a great mea- sure lost, the patient's sulForingi are much loss intense than in subjects in whom no such changes have taken place. On the other hand, gouty and rheumatic or nervous patients often experience excessive pain, or, at least, describe their feelings in exaggerated terms. We also find tliat phospliatic calculi are attended by more pain than the lithic acid, or oxalic; but this dill'erence de- pends not on tlio physical properties of the stone but on the circumstance that plinsphatic calculi are usually attended by sonic morbid corulitlon of the bhtdder or kidneys. Sudden arrest of the How of urine and lu'ema- turia ^are symptoms whicli often present them- selves during the progress of stone ; yet not con- stantly. The sudden and complete stoppage of the flow occasioned by an impediment at the neck of the bladder, may bo regarded as nearly decisive of the nature of the case, since it seldom arises from any other cause,except, perhaps, the presence of a pedun- culated tumour near tlie neck of the organ. 11 is par- ticularly worthy of note that the stoppage of urine now alluded to does not last for more than a few moments; it disappears either of its own accord, or from some change of posture which removes the foreign body from the urethral orifice. Hrematuria must be regarded as an occasional symptom of stone only. In the advanced stages, however, when the mucous lining of the bladder has become congested or diseased, any violent exercise, the jolting of a carriage, &c., commonly produce bloody urine.] A stone in the ureter or kidneys, or clironic in- flammation in the bladder from any other cause, will sometimes produce the same effects; but if the patient cannot void his urine, except in a cer- tain posture, it is a strong indication that the orifice of the bladder is obstructed by a stone. If he find ease by pressing against the perineum with his fingers, or sitting with that part upon a hard body, there is little doubt the ease is procured by taking off the weight of the stone; or, lastly, if, with the other symptoms, he thinks he can feel it roll in his bladder, it is hardly possible to be mistaken; how- ever, the only sure judgment is to be formed from sounding. Enlargement of the prostate gland is attended with symptoms resembling those of a stone in the bladder; but with this difference, that the motion of a coach or horse does not increase the grievances when the prostate is affected, while it does so in an intolerable degree iu cases of stone. It also generally happens, that the fits of the stone come on at intervals; whereas, the pain from a diseased prostate is neither so unequal nor so acute. (Sharp, in Critical Inquiry, p. 1G5, ed. 4.) Though, from a consideration of all the circum- stances above related, the surgeon may form a probable opinion of there being a stone in the bladder, he must never presume to deliver a positive one, nor be so rash as to undertake lithotomy, without having greater reason for being certain that there is a stone to be extracted; and this certainty "s only to be obtained by sounding the patient. The sound is an instrument made of highly polished steel, in order that it may convey to the surgeon's fingers the sensation of anything against which its end may strike. It is generally rather less curved than a catheter, so that its extremity may be more easily turned from side to side, or inclined to the lower part of the bladder, where the stone is most frequently situated. Some sur- geons prefer a sound which is straight, except a small portion of it, about an inch in length, near the beak, which, after the introduction of the in- strument, can be turned down to either side, or even completely round, so as to touch any calculus lodged just behind the prostate gland. When a patient is to be sounded, ho is usually put in a posture very similar to that adopted in the lateral operation for stune, with the exception that he is not bound in this position, as there is sometimes an advautiigo in making the patient stand up, in order that the stone may come into