314 MORTIFICATION. sation of urine in the scrotum, all scarifications, wliich penetrate to the living parts are often pro- ductive of the most serious mischief, instead of advantage. Such incisions cannot be practised without occasioning a great deal of pain, nnd pro- ducing inflammation, wliich often makes the morti- fication spread still further. But as parts which are in a complete state of sphacelus are absolutelj- extraneous substances in regard to those which still retain their vitality, all such portion of them as is already loose should be removed. By lessen- ing the size of the putrid mass, the fetor is dimin- ished. An outlet may sometimes be made for the escape of a great deal of putrid discharge, which, being confined, might have a bad efi:ect on the neighbouring living parts; and the latter are en- abled to free themselves more easily from the rest of the sloughs. . . The too common practice of accelerating with a cutting instrument the separation of the mortified parts previously to the completion of the process by which nature breaks the connexion between them and the living flesh, in general ongV.t to be strongly reprobated, as causing unnecessary pain, and irritation, and creating the risk of a renewal ol the sloughing. So far as my experience goes, gan- grenous phagedena is the only instance in which it seems useful to remove the sloughs before they are loose, so as to let the topical applications extend their actions without delay to the subjacent living surface. (See Hospital Ganghene.) Potts sentiments, with respect to the danger and inutility of cutting the tendons and ligaments, in the morti- fication of the toes and feet, are well known. _ If the surgeon prudently let nature work, with- out disturbing her, the separation of the mortified from the living parts will soon follow the establish- ment of inflammation and suppuration at the edges of the slough. . T 1 • c But when the whole thickness of a limb is af- fected with mortification, ought the surgeon to leave things to nature ? or ought he to have recourse to amputation In general, the performance of amputation is in- dispensable; not that nature would not m many instances detach the sphacelated part; biit be^cause a great length of time would be required for the corn- Jletion ot- the process, and a servicable stump would rarely be left. . r i j Another important question then arises—should the surgeon amputate while the mortification is in a spreading state ? Or, ought he to defer the ope- ration until a line of separation begins to foim between the dead and living parts? In the mortification of the toes and feet, m old persons. Sir A. Cooper forbids amputation whether there be healthy granulations or not, and he de- clares that if the operation be done, mortification of the stump, and the patient's death, will certainly follow. . ... (. "Amputation (says a distinguished profes or was long regarded as one of the most cfiectual means which could be employed to prevent the ex- tension of gangrene. This practice, however, has not received the sanction of experience; on the contrary, it has been generally found, wherever it has been practised, in either acute or chronic gan- grene, to accelerate much the progress ot the disease; and in this way to hasten the deatli ot the patient. The parts, which were divided in amputation, though at a distance from n spreading gangrene and from sphacelus, were found speedily to assume the appearance of the affection for which the operation had been performed. TiU,iher(fore, (he adhesive wjlummalion comes on, and a dislindhj marked separation of the dead from the sound parts takes place, amputalion is,infnv, if in any cases of mortification admissible. We never know, pre- viously to this, where a gangrene or sphacelus is to stop, nor whether the powers of the constitution be sufficient to sustain the injury that the mortifica- tion has inflicted. Even when the adhesive in- flammation comes on, it is in most cases best to allow some time to elapse before we operate, partly with a view to give time for the constitutional symptoms to abate; in other instances, to allow the patient's strength to be recruited by nourishment and cordials; and partly also with a view to learn whether the constitution of the patient be indeed capable of so great a fresh shock, as that which amputation must necessarily occasion." (See Thomson's Lectures, p. 582.) A different doctrine and practice are now sanc- tioned. " Writers on gangrene or sphacelus of the extremities (says Larrey) indiscriminately recom- mend the amputation of a sphacelated limb never to be undertaken before the mortification is bounded or limited by a reddish circle, forming a true line of separation between the dead and living parts. This circumstance can only occur in a case of spon- taneous gangrene from an internal cause ; or if it happens, as is very unusual, in a case arising from a wound, its progress is different, and it would be exceedingly imprudent to wait for it. The gangrene from external injuries cchnost abvaT/s continues to spread; the iffeclion becomes general; and the pa- tient dies." {Mem. de Chir. Miliiaire, t. in. p. 142.) , , In cases of mortification, arising from external injuries, Larrey maintains, that, "notwithstanding any thing that writers and practitioners may allege to the contrary, we should not hesitate about promptly performing amputation, as soon as the necessity for the operation is decidedly established. There is no reason to apprehend, that the stump will be seized with gangrene, as in the spontaneous mortification, which has not ceased to spread, he- cause the traumatic gangrene, after having arisen from a local cause, is only propagated by absorption, and a successive aftection of the texture of parts by continuity of the vessels. Amputation, performed in a proper situation, stops the progress and tatal consequences of the disorder. , " Supposing, then, the lower half of the leg should be aftected with sphacelus, in consequence of a gunshot injury, attended with a violent contu- sion of the part, and a forcible concussion of the vessels, nerves, mid ligaments, if the skiu is else- where uninjured, the operation may be doiie lu the place of election, without any fear of the stump becmuing gangrenous, notwithstanding the cellulai tissue of Uie upper part of the member may b al- ready aftected. But, when the skm of the whole Ucr is su-uck with mortification, tlie oper.-xtion must be done on the thigh, and no time should be los . The same practice is applicable to the upper ex- tremities. We must be careful not to mistake a E afttcted with stupor, for one tl.at is acttja^ly snliacclated. In the first case, warmth, motion, •u d e sibi ity are still retained, althoi^h the skm i b blackisli and the parts may be swollen. Besides, if there were any doubt, it would be pro-