NECROSIS. 342 piece of bono, which has been a source of discora- fort for months or years, is cast off. In cases of necrosis from general causes, there is seldom much attempt at repair, and this circumstance is observed in traumatic cases occurring in unhealthy persons : also when there is much destruction of the soft parts, whether resulting from the injury^ or from the violence of the inflammation succeeding to it; and again, when followed by very slight inflam- matory action, the necrosis may assume a chronic form, and give rise to morbid changes in the bone itself and the tissues about it. In such instances, large portions of bone may be lost without further attempt at repair than is afforded by means of a fibrocellular structure, or even without any at all. In some cases of acute necrosis, the disease follows a very rapid course, necessitating ampu- tation of the limb within a few days of its commencement, or else the patient succumbs to its violence. In most of these instances, the whole shaft of the bone is implicated, and is found de- nuded of its periosteum, and bathed in pus : here there is no attempt at repair, and even when sufficient time has elapsed for the reproductive process to have established itself, the severity of the inflammation has usually prevented any forma- tion of bone. Although the destruction of the shaft is so complete and rapid, the articular ex- tremities are very rarely attacked, showing well the power possessed by the cancellated structure of bone to resist the invasion of disease. Occasionally these acute cases of necrosis have given rise to pysemia, and thus destroyed life {PatJi. Soc. Trans, vol. xiii.), but purulent infec- tion is not a frequent consequence of diseased bone. The new bone which replaces the old, after a ne- crosis, maj"^ itself be attacked by the same disease. Where this has happened very little, if any, at- tempt at repair has been observed.] Let us next consider the states and circumstances of necrosis, in which surgery may be advantage- ously exerted in the assistance of nature, and the means which may be employed for the purpose. In some instances, the shaft of a cylindrical bone may have perished, and become completely sepa- rated from the living ends, and yet the process of reproduction may take place to onlj' a limited ex- tent, or it may entirely fail. In some other eases, and under whatever circumstances the death of the bone has occurred, whether from constitutional or local cause, from external violence or otherwise, the necrosed portion may still retain its connexion with the living bone, and no exfoliation ensue. In University College Hospital I lately had a patient with necrosis of the thigh bone, which had con- tinued fourteen years, without any sequestrum having become loose. In manj-- examples, the cause of this failure of separation seems inexplica- ble : "In some, (says Mr. Stanlej-,) it may arise from simple debility, or a peculiar derangement of the system; or it may be the effect of a diseased condition of the soft parts surrounding the dead bone. This is perhaps capable of illustration by those cases in which necrosis takes place from the influence of the venereal disease. In these, a por- tion of the front of the tibia, for example, having perished, and the skin covering it ulcerated, dead bone is exposed, and becomes perfectly black; but It undurgoea no further change, till mercury is exhibited." (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xx. p. 579.) Weidmann strongly advocated the plan of con- fiding the process of separation, or exfoliation, to nature. In what other manner, he asks, could it be more safel)' accomplished, without ha;morrhage, or pain to the patient—without any risk of a re- currence of inflammation, or of a fresh necrosis ? He admits, however, that the process frequently requires a considerable time; and that it would be desirable to accelerate it, if possible. " Will any topical applications have this effect ? They are put upon the inert surface of a dead piece of bone, in which no vital power or action can be again excited. When acrid, they prove irritating, inflaming, and destructive of the neighbouring flesh, without any utility—and cause pain to the patient, which is compensated by no good. Would the perforations recommended by Celsus, Belloste, and many others, have the desired effect ? If, says Weidmann, tliey are confined to the dead bone, they cannot have more effect than the scarifica- tions which were formerly practised in cases of gangrene; and, if they extend to the living bone, this will be injured. Lastl}"-, Weidmann inquires, whether the separation can be accelerated by the actual cautery, which cannot act upon every point of the necrosis, and which, unless applied with the greatest precautions, will bum the subjacent parts, and bring on a new attack of inflammation, with- out forwarding the exfoliation in the smallest degree. Of what use, says he, can rasping and scraping in- struments be, which act merely upon the dead part ? Or will the gouge, and other cutting instruments, do more good ? They cannot take away the whole of the dead portion, without injuring the adjacent living bone, and causing a risk of another necrosis. And, if they leave any piece of the old dead bone behind, nature will be as long in effecting the separation of these, as she would have been in detaching the entire necrosis." A certain degree of irritation in the soft parts around a necrosis is set down by Mr. StanW as a necessary condition for exfoliation. I believe that the process is frequently expedited by it; and that it is on this principle that perpetual blisters, issues, setons, mineral acids, the cautery, and some other plans above specified, have occasionally proved serviceable. " In cases of slight superficial necrosis, siu-geons have frequent opportunities of trying every kind of topical application; and when the cure takes place, during the use of any of them, the benefit is as- cribed to whatever happens to be in use. But in numerous and far more serious examples of necrosis, it is impossible to make these applications reach the whole surface of the dead bone; yet notwith- standing this circumstance, the separation is not impeded. Some exfoliations happen, without our knowing of their occurrence, and without a thought having been entertained of promoting them by any vaunted applications. We even see necroses sepa- rate, whose situation rendered them inaccessible to our remedies : such are the necroses which occur within the long bones, and comprehend the whole of their cylindrical shaft or body. What surgeon can boast of having effected, by topical applications, the separation of the whole lower jaw-bone; a thing which nature has very frequently accom- plislu d ? And when, as often h.appens, the entire diaphysis of the thigh-bone, tibia, or other long bone comes away or splits longitudinally, and such bone loses a half of its cylinder, how is it possible