or menorrhagic. This is very common, but not constant. 2' Leucorrhcea, of a mucous purulent, or serous character; at times t.nged \vith blood J very offensive, owing to the discharge being ,etained^ in the vagina and decomposing the.e 3. Bearing-down or expu s.ve pains 4. Perhap, some distress in micturition f bladder; and in some cases where the tumoi has been very large, so as to compress the bladder and rectum against the walls of the pelvis, syniptoms like those of retroversion of the gravid womb have been developed, as retention of unne, uroemia, and intense pelvic pain. Gangrene and sl«"gh>ng of the vagina have even been known. 5. When hsemorrhage and leucorrhoea have continued some time the phenomena of antemia, blood-degradation, and impairment of digestion follow. The aspect may become sallow, the patient emaciated, and the discharges offensive. These, together with pain, constitute a series of symptoms that have often given rise to the conclusion that the disease was cancer. In the case of intra-uterine polypus, all the foregoing symptoms may be present; but in addition there will commonly be enlargement of the body of the uterus, and expulsive pains of a spas- modic character—uterine colic. Another not un- common symptom is vomiting. This appears to be due to distension of the uterine fibre. Physical exploration is essential in all cases to arrive at a safe conclusion. This is carried out by the hand, the uterine sound, and speculum.] A polypus situated in the vagina, or protruding from it e.Kternally, is liable to be mistaken for a prolapsus uteri. The polypus is softer and less sensible than the uterus in the state of prolapsus. The imperfect prolapsus uteri, in which this viscus POLYPUS OF THE UTERUS. 471 in women who have been recently delivered, and has generally been preceded by a very rapid deli- very, or the use of too much violence in the ex- traction of the placenta. While the inverted uterus lies in the vagina its shape is broad above and narrow below; whereas the polypus is thin above and broad below. Hence, in cases of very large polypi in the vagina, the os uteri is but little di- lated ; while it is extremely distended by the incomplete descent of the inverted uterus itself. Here, likewise, the reduction of the part is at- tended with relief; while every effort to push back a polypus causes an aggravation of all the complaints. . c When the inverted uterus hangs out ot the vagina, its figure, like that of the polypus, is thin upward and broad downward; and, like the latter tumor, has no aperture at its lowest part. An attentive observer, however, will easily avoid a mistake. The inverted uterus includes a circular fold at its upper part, next to the orifice of the vagina. This fold is nothing less than the os uteri itself, through which the body of this viscus has descended. There is nothing of this kind to be felt in cases of polypi. By the side of a poly- pus the finger or probe may be passed deeply into the vagina ; but not so by the side of the uterus. The root of the polypus is firm and hard to the touch; the upper thin part of the uterus, which is hollow, has a soft flabby feel. [Many cases are notwithstanding recorded in whicli the inverted uterus has been ligatured in mistake for polypus. See Denman, Gooch (pp. 151. 137), Wm. Hunter. The intra-uterine polypus may, under certain favourable circumstances, be felt or seen ; for ex- rSSr^Ct:;:;^ b^t^ro: amp,, at the menstma, penods. under the com j8 liui, niiii^" .... .., , 1 ,. , „o,f inflnpiiPBu nf incn^nspfl tnrcescenre or tui tincse, which is plainly perceptible at its lower part. In this situation the polypus may have a depression resembling the mouth of the womb, but easy of discrimination from it. A probe can be passed deeply into the os tincffi; but not so into this other opening. The polypus resembles an inverted pear; that is, it is thickest below, and becomes gradually thinner upward. The above species of the prolapsus uteri is thinnest below, and gradually increases in width upward. The fallen uterus may easily be pressed back, and when it is so, the patient experiences relief. The polypus does not admit of being pressed back, and during an attempt to do this, the patient is put to much inconvenience. A probe may be introduced by the side of the polypus deeply to the fundus uteri. When passed by the side of the fallen uterus, it is very soon stopped at the upper part of the vagina, which has sunk down with the cervix of the uterus. „ . . A polypus, protruding externally from the va- gina, may be much more easily distinguished from a perfect prolapsus uteri, without inversion. The OS tinciE at once characterises the uterus, as it can not only be felt, but seen. A probe may be passed deeply into the vagina, along the side of the polypus; but not so by the side of the uterus, for reasons easy of comprehension. The figure of the tumor, and the state of the patient, on an effort being made to reduce the protruded part, also betray its real nature. With the exception of a few examples, in which an inversion of the uterus is caused by the descent of a large polypus into the vagina, it happens only bined influences of increased turgescence of the uterus, in which the polypus sliares, and of uterine contraction, the os opens a little, the polypus is forced down upon it, and even a little through it. Examination at this time will enable the finger to feel a ball resting on the ring of the OS uteri, and through the speculum it may be seen. The colour is usually pale pink. After the men- strual epoch, the os closes, and the tumor recedes out of toucli and sight. Repeated heemorrhages, uterine colics, and enlarged uterus, should, how- ever, lead to further exploration. The sound will gauge the length of the cavity, and perhaps reveal the presence of a globular movable body inside. Or the cervix may be dilated by inserting in it sponge-tents, or the laminnria tent, or by incisions. In this way room may be easily made to admit the finger, either with or without passing the hand into the vagina. Ergot or galvanism has occasionally so far aided the contractions of the uterus as to drive the polyfius down witliin reach. Polypi in wiiicli the fibrous element predomi- nates occasionally grow from the walls of the vagina. They are not so apt to cause hfemorrhage as are the uterine; but sometimes occasion distress by their bulk and pressure upon the pelvic organs. 2. Another form of polypus is the villous. It appears to be simply the result of hypertrophy, or projection of the cervical mucous membrane. All the elements of mucous membrane are found in it. It occurs as the result of the partial eversion of the cervix attending congestion and prolapsus, It is very common in senile prolapsus or hyper- trophic elongation of the cervix uteri.