JOINTS, DISEASES OF. 117 the synovial membrane, unless nn absolute neces- sity exists; and if such palliative measures as just mentioned suffice to prevent any serious inconveni- ence being felt from the presence of this foreign body, Buch a necessity is not present." {Op.cil.p. 151.)] Mr. Hey, aware of tlie dangerous symptoms which have occasionally resulted from the most simple wounds peneirating the knee-joint, was induced to try the efficacy of a laced l^nee-cap; and the cases wliich he has adduced clear)}' demon- strate that the benefit thus obtained is not tem- poraiy, at least so long as the patient continues to wear the bandage. In 'one case the metliod had been tried for ten years, with all the success wliich the patient could desire. Boyer also made one patient use a knee-cap for a year ; after which it was left off, the patient appearing cm'ed. And in a second instance the same practitioner tried the same plan, which put a stop to the pain, and enabled the patient to walk with ease; but it was not known whether the method answered perma- nently. (Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 444.) [Chelius remarks on the subject of bandages, that although in many cases they are of no use, and even increase the pain, yet should they be tried, as in several instances they effect not merely momentary but permanent relief.] Contemplating the evidence upon this point, and the perilous symptoms sometimes following wounds of the knee-joint, I am decidedly of opinion that the effect of a knee-cap, or of a roller and compress, ap- plied over the loose cartilage, ought generally to be tried before recourse is had to excision. I say gene- rally, because the conduct of the surgeon ought, in such cases, to be adapted to the condition and inclin- ation of the patient. If a man be deprived of his livelihood by not being able to use his knee; if he cannot or will not take the trouble of wearing a bandage; if he be urgently desirous to undergo the operation after the risk and danger have been impartially explained to him; if a bandage shouid not be productive of sufficient relief; and, lastly, if excessive pain, severe inflammation of the joint, a great deal of symptomatic fever and lameness should frequently be produced by the complaint (see Tirodie's Pathol, and Surg. Ohs. ed. S, p. 2.5,3), I think it would be the duty of a surgeon to ope- rate. Under such circumstances, I lately- removed a loose cartilage of considerable size from a gentle- man's knee, without the previous trial of pressure; and the result was perfectly successful. It is very certain that success has generally attended the operation; but, small as the chance is of losing limb, and even life, in the attempt to get rid of the disease, since the inconveniences of the complaint are, in most cases, very bearable, and are even capable of palliation by means of a bandage, en- dangering the limb and life in any degree must seem to many persons contrary to the dictates of prudence. At all events we must agree with Boyer, that as the laced knee-cap can do no harm, we ought always to make trial of it, and never perform the operation except when pressure does not answer, and the return of frequent and violent pam makes the employment of the knife necessary (Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 445.) _ [Wlicn it has been determined to adopt opera- tive proceedings, gome preliminary steps must be taken before putting them into effect. The patient should be kept quiet in bed for a few days pre- viously; cold lotions may bo applied to the knee during the same time, and a saline purgative may be exhibited. If the joint be painful and inflamed this state must first be got rid of b}' strict rest leeches, cold applications, and the like. No opera- tion should be undertaken for extraction of the loose body so long as the joint is in an irritated state, as the result of a recent attack of pain; this must be first subdued. It should be ascertained by careful examination whether there be not several such bodies in the joint, or only one, and its size should be made out if possible. Sometimes the loose body cannot be found, and we have seen patients re- moved from the operating-table in consequence. The patient therefore should arrest it when in a favourable situation, and retain it till the surgeon arrives.] I shall next introduce an account of the plan of operating, as described by various surgeons. [On the knee-joint it is performed in the follow- ing manner:—The patient, being placed on a table in the horizontal posture, the fureign body is pressed to the upper part of the knee-joint, on one or other side,—according to Abernethy, on the inner, but according to Schreger, best on the outer side— towards the condyle of the thigh-bone, and fixed with the fingers of the left hand, so that it cannot escape; if there be several bodies, they must all be fixed in the same way. An assistant now draws the skin as much as possible upwards, and the operator makes, with a convex bistoury, a vertical cut through the skin and capsular ligament, of suffi- cient size for the loose body to be easily pressed out, or removed with forceps. If the foreign bodj- slip away the very moment the cut is made, which Chflius has seen, it must directly be brought back to the cut, but the wound must be at once closed if this cannot be easily and quickly done. When the-loose body has been removed the wound must be cleaned, the parallelism between the in- ternal and external wound got rid of, by letting go the skin which has been drawn up, and then closed most carefully with sticking-plaster. The limb is to be kept strictly at rest. If no inflammatory symptoms come on, the wound unites by the first, intention in a few days ; but if inflammation should set in, it must be counteracted by active antiphlo- gistic treatment, as leeches and cold applications. [Cheluis' Si/stei)i of Surgery, translated by South vol. i. p. 709.) " In the cases in which I have operated," Mr. South remarks, " the loose substance was placed most conveniently in the little cleft between the edges of the condyle, and the head of the shin- bone and the margin of the knee-cap; and instead of drawing the skin up, as Chelius recommends, I drew it tightly to one side. I do not know, how- ever, that it is of material consequence in which direction the skin is drawn; and the best rule would seem to be, to draw in that direction in which the skin yields most readily, so as to keep the outer and inner wounds farthest apart. This will principally depend on the size and seat of the loose substance, which will also decide whether its removal siiall be effected on the iniusr or outer side of the knee-cap. The operation applies only to the loose, cartilaginous, or bony bodies, and not to the malignant growths to which Schreger refers for which amputation is the only remedy." The operation as performed by Desault, Aber- nethy, Chelius, South, and many others is a valvular one; for as the integuments are gently