THYROID CLAN probable, and to be nstDiiislied that the ingre- dient should Iiave escaped notice. He was there- fore lit once induced to think of its use in medicine; and in the same paper, from which we obtain these facts, impressed with the poisonous quality ascribed by Orlila to iodine, he recommended, first the trial of its salts, especially the hydriodates of soda and lime, and then that of the substance itself. " The communication of Dr. Straub is dated Dec. 181,9, and was actually published in Pro- fessor Meisner's periodical work in February, 1820 ; five months, at least, before the first memoir of Dr. Coindet was communicated to the Helve- tian society of Natural Sciences at Geneva. It IS unnecessary to have recourse to any supposition of injustice done to Dr. Straub ; much less would It be right to deprive Dr. Coindet of the merit of originality in substituting the direct and certain action of iodine for the irregular, and sometimes inert, qualities of burnt sponge in the treatment of goure. Coincidence of this kind is not uncom- mon in science: in the present instance, the inge- nuity of Dr. Straub does not diminish the merit of Dr. Coindet." (See Edin. Med. and Sura i/o«raa/, No. 80. p. 210, &c.) In the Archives Generales de Medecine for July, 1823, Dr. Coster mentions the opportunity which he had had of remaining eight months at Geneva with Dr. Coindet, and of observing correctly the good effects of iodine in enlargements of the thy- roid gland, and in scrofulous tumors. Dr. Coin- det first of all employed this medicine under the form of alcoholic tincture, and obtained very sur- prising effects from its administration in goitre. He next tried friction on the tumor itself, with an ointment, composed of the iodide of potassium and lard ; and the success of this practice was so great, that of nearly one hundred individuals af- fected with gf.itre, whose cases Dr. Coster col- lec,ted, more than two-thirds were completely cured by it. Soon after these successful results, iodine was employed, sometimes internally, and sometimes in the form of friction, in scrofula. " I shall not affirm (says Dr. Coster) that success Tvas as uniform in the latter, as in the former dis- ease ; but it is certain, that scrofulous tumors yield sooner to the action of iodine than to that of any other remedy at present known : when the tumors, whether of the thyroid gland, or of the lympathic glands, are hard and renitent, experi- ence proves that the effects of iodine are much more prompt, when the frictions are preceded by the application of leeches, and a low regimen. Notwithstanding these precautions, however, the tumor sometimes continues stationarj-." In such a case, Dr. Coster put the tumor twice a da}-, for ten or twelve minutes, under the influence of the positive pole of the voltaic pile, taking care to change sides each time of using it: so that, in the morning, he made use of friction with iodine on the right side, and the action of the pile on the left ; and, in the evening, applied the friction to the left side, and the galvanism to the right. In twenty days, not the least trace of the broiichocele was left. It is stated, that, in this instance, the voltaic pile, unassisted with the frictions of iodine was as ineffectnal as the friction by itself had been. I{y the internal and external use of iodine, I once dispersed a bronchoccle, which had formed' in the neck of a young ludy, aged about 12 VOL. II. D, DISEASES OF. 737 The disease began to diminisli in less than a wei-k from the commencement of the treatment, and in six weeks the cure was complete. Since this I have treated several other cases with an equa'lly favourable result. An interesting case, in which a similar plan was attended with success, is recorded by Dr. Roots. (See Mod.-Chir. Trans. vol. xii. p. 310.) Another instance of its de- cided efficacy is reported by Dr. Barlow, of Bath (see Edin. Med. Journ. No. 79. p. ,337.) ; but, whoever wishes to have a large and convinc- ing body of evidence on this point, should consult the cases and observations published by Dr. Man- son, of Nottingham, where bronchocele is said to be endemic. He gives the results of one hundred and twenty cases of bronchocele in which he administered iodine. Fifteen were in males, and one hundred and five in females. When the disease was complicated with diseased lymphatic glands, the thyroid gland first yielded, and then the others. In the fourth case, a scrofulous swell- ing of the foot yielded during the use of iodine. Of the hundred and twenty cases referred to, eighty-8e9en were cured, ten much relieved, and only two or three discharged without relief. (See Manson or Medical Research on the Effects of Mine in Bronchocele, Paralysis, Chorea, Scrofula, Fistula Lacrpnalis, Deafness, Dysplutyia, White ^«-elhnffs, and Distortions of tlie Spine, Lond. 1 o2o.) In South America a remedy for bronchocele, called aceyte de sal, was found, by M. Roulin, to contain a proportion of iodine. (See Magendie, Journ. de Physiologic, t. v. p. 273 ) The same gentleman has also proposed the trial of chlorine or the free hydrochloric acid. Notwithstanding the numerous cures of bron- chocele accomplished by means of iodine, the plan fails m many instances. As Dupuytren ob- serves, the disease depends on different causes. Sometimes it is a simple hypertrophy ; sometimes a scirrhous degeneration ; and, on other occasions. It IS composed of cysts, filled with matter of dif- tereiit kinds. Iodine cannot answer equally for so many afl^ections of diverse character. (Clininue t. IV p, 467.) According to Dr. Sacclii, iodine is chiefly useful in the hypertrophic and scrofulous forms; less so in the lymphatic; and per- fectly ineffectual against small isolated hard goitres 1 lie best mode of using iodine seems, to Dr. Sac- chi, to be friction, with an ointment of hydriodate of potass, continued from one to several months Petit, Heister, and Schmucker make mention of inveterate bronchoceles, which gradually sub- sided, in consequence of suppuration. Volni states, that such ulcerations are not unfreqnent He has published two facts of this kind, which occurred after a nervous fever ; and he records a third case, where the swelling inflamed in conse- quence of a blow, suppurated, and sloughed, so as entirely to disappear. (See Le^eiul Nouveu" Doj^trine Chir U iv. p. 128). A similar fact i b!T p J^'PP- ^Sichold, Samml. Chiv. Beob. The disease, in its inveterate form, has also been sometimes removed by the application of caustic • (Mesny in Journ. de Medecine, t. xxiv p 75 ! hmwus, Cas. p. 230.); the establishment ofissues into the swelling, or the introduction of n seton through It. i^Fodcri, Essai sur Ic Goitre ct Ic Cri •i2