739 THYROID GLAND, DISEASES OF. stance, the irritation broiin;ht on sloughing, and the patient nCter ii time died. The particulars of this case, and of three successful examples of the practice in England, iiave been recorded One of the successful cases was treated by Mr James, of Exeter, another by Mr. A. Hutchinson, who has taken the trouble to collect the history of them, and the third, by Dr. A. T. Thomson. (See Mc<(. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 235.) Percy and Dupuytren also employed setons in bron chncele with success. The" plan, however, is sometimes inefficient, as is proved by two cases under Dr. Kennedy, of Glasgow. (See London AfeJical Repository, No. .99. Feb. 11)22.) The exact nature of cases relieved by this practice, and their difference from other examples, which are benefited by treatment of a different kind, sire still desiderata in surgery. When a seton was pnssed through the thyroid gliind, Dupuytren always noticed a copious dis- charge of venous blood; but, he found it soon stop, on desiring the patient to make full inspirations, and applying cold water, and moderate pressure. (See Cliniqm Chir. t. iv. p. 4/0.) Dupuytren would not have the seton looked upon as capalile of curing every broncliocele. Of course, it will produce no favourable change in the scirrhous de- generation of the thyroid gland ; but, in cases of hypertrophy, cysts, and hydatids, where iodine and other specifics frequently fail, the disease will be more likely to yield to the seton. (lb. p. 471.) Ligattire of Thyroid Arteries.—When broncho- celes by their pressure dangerously obstruct respi- ration, deglutition, and the return of blood from the head; and when the disease resists the efficacy of iodine, a seton, blisters, and every other plan of treatment found deserving of trial, the operation of exposing and tying one or both of the upper thyroid arteries has been practised. When the quantity of blood flowing into a tu- mor is suddenly, and greatly, lessened, the size of the swelling commonly soon under;^oes a con- siderable diminution. The experiment was once made by Sir W. Rlizard : he tied the arteries of an enlarged thyroid gland, and in a week the tumor was reduced one-third in its size. The ligatures then sloughed off, repeated bleeding took place from the arteries, and, by the extension of hospital gangrene, the carotid itself was ex- posed. The patient died; yet, as Mr. A. Burns observes, this does not militate againsta repetition of the experiment; as the same thing might have liappent'd from merely opening a vein, and, in the confined air of an hospit.-il, has actually hap- pened. {Hurfficat Analoiny of Ike Head and Neck, p. 202.) In fact, the rationality of the experiment pre- v('nt''d surgeons from being intimidated by the failure in question, and other gentlemen were soon found who had judgment enough to make further trials of the practice. In a young man, twenty- fiiiir years of age, whose breathing was much im- peded by a broncliocele, and whose upper thyroid ;n teries were very large, and affected with strong pulsations, Walther of J,andshut tied the left of Uieae vessels, the left side of the gland being the largest. The operation wiia done on the 3rd of June, 1814. An incision, iin inch and a half in length, was made in the direction of the inner edge of the sterno-cloido nmstoid muscle, where the throbbing of the artery was quite distinct. Uy a second stroke of the knife, the platysma- myoides was divided in the same direction, and to an equal extent. The vessel was then exposed by a cautious dissection, and separated from the sur- rounding parts, and one arterial branch, which was divided, was immediately secured. A ligature, composed of three silk threads, was then conveyed with an aneurism-needle under the left thyroid artery, and tied with two simple knots. The wound was then closed with adhesive plaster, and the ends of the ligatures brought out at the angles. The ligature on the large artery came away on the twelfth day; and, without any febrile symptoms or other bad consequences, the wound was perfectly healed on the 23rd day. As early as the third day after the application of the ligature, the left part of the tumor began to bo less tense, and the throbbing feel in it soon ceased. By degrees, it dwindled away, becoming, as it lessened, harder, and, as it were, cartilaginous. In a fort- night, the left half of the swelling was one-third smaller than before the operation; and, at length, only one-third of it remained, while the right side also was somewhat smaller. On the 17th of June Walther took up the right superior thyroideal artery, which was more difficult to get at, as it lay more deeply, and was much concealed under the enlarged gland, which had pushed it out of its natural situation. The operation lasted three- quarters of an hour; and several large and small arteries which were cut were tied. With respect to the thyroid artery itself, it could not be tied without including a part of the gland in the liga- ture. No unfavourable symptoms followed this second operation; the ligatures were detached in good time, and the wound healed up very well. The right portion-of the bronchocele also now diminished: but, though it was originally smaller than the left, it did not dwindle away so com- pletely as the latter. The remains of the tumor, however, two years afterwards, produced no incon- venience, and respiration was quite easy. (See Neue Ileilart der Kropfes, Sfc. von Ph. Fr. von Walther, p. 26, &c. 8vo. Sulzbach, 1817.) On the 28th of December, 1818, Mr. H. Coates, of Salisbury, took up the superior thyroideal artery for the cure of a bronchocele, which, in a youn.r woman, aged seventeen, made pressure on the trachea and oesophagus, attended with a great noise in breathing. The superior thyroideal arteries were in this instance largo, and pulsated strongly Mr. Coates cut down upon the left of these ves- sels, and pnssed under it a small round lioature which was drawn moderately tight, and tied. The next day there was headache, and some swelling of the neck and .side of the head, with increased difficulty of swallowing, and febrile symptoms. These complaints, however, were relieved "by bleed- ing and antimonial medicines. The ligature came away on the 9th day; and, on the Mth,tlie wound was completely healed. On the 14th of February the breathing being much improved, and the tu'. mor reduced nearly to one-half of its former size the patient was well enough to bo discharged from the infirmary. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. p. 312.) The late Mr. Rose once nientionud to nie a case, in which a similar operation, dune by Sir Henji imin Brodie, did not produce any material diminutiim of the tumor. Two successful caees^o^ ligature of the superior