200 LITHOTOMY. contact with the end of the sound. The instru- ment liiiving been introduced, its extremity is to be turned, and moved in every direction, when, if there be a calculus, its presence will usually be indicated by the collision against the beak of the sound. When the symptoms afford strong evi- dence of the presence of a stone, which cannot be detected in these ways, the patient should be sounded, while his pelvis is raised, and his chest depressed. He should also be sounded both in the full and empty state of the bladder, and both in the erect and recumbent positions, with sounds and catheters of different shapes. Stones have sometimes been found in the blad- der after death, although they could never be dis- covered with a sound while the patient was alive, suffering all the symptoms of the complaint. The celebrated French surgeon La Peyronie was thus circumstanced : he was so fully convinced of there being a stone in his bladder, notwithstanding nei- ther he, nor any of his friends, could feel it with a sound, that, on his deathbed, he gave directions for ascertaining the fact. Hence, when the usual symptoms of a stone in the bladder continue, pa- tients should be examined several times, before a positive opinion is delivered respecting the nature of the case. When, during the operation of sound- ing, all the vu'ine has escaped from the bladder, the inner surface of this viscus comes into contact with the end of the sound, and such a sensation may be communicated to the surgeon's fingers, as leads him to suspect that a fungus, or some other hardish extraneous substance, is contained in the bladder. In such cases, patients have actually been cut for stone, Avhen no foreign body what- ever was present. I know of at least seven cases (and at two of them I was present) where the patients were sub- jected to all the torture and perils of this opera- tion, without there being any calculi in their bladders. The maxim, therefore, cannot be too strictly enforced, that the operation ought never to be attempted, unless the stone can be distinctly felt with the sound or staff. In one of the ex- amples of whicli I was a spectator, not only the symptoms, but the feel which the sound itself communicated when in the bladder, made the sur- geons imagine that there was a calculus, or some extraneous body in this organ. Most of the above cases, I understand, recovered, which may be con- sidered fortunate; because, when the stone cannot be found, the disappointed operator is apt to per- sist in roughly introducing liis fingers, and a variety of instruments, so long, in the hope of catching what cannot be got hold of, that inflammation of the bladder and peritoneum is more likely to fol- low than when a stone is actually present, soon taken out, and the patient kept only a short time upon the operating-table. In a valuable practical work is recorded an in- stance, in which what is called a horny cartilaginous state of the bladder made the sound communicate a sensation like that arising from the instrument actually touching a stone, and the surgeon at- tempted lithotomy. The patient unfortunately died in twenty-four hours. (See DesatiWs Parisian Cliir. Joiirn., vol. ii. p. 125.) [The rugom bladder, not unfrequently met with iu children, and more rarely in adults, has been alluded to in this Dictionary. (See Art. Bladder, ■^ol- 1, p. 306.) It is an irritable and contracted condition of bladder, with projecting rugas on its inner surface, communicating a sensation through the sound which an inexperienced person might mistake for a calculus, and the more so that the symptoms attending it very much resemble those which a stone would produce. It is useful to know that this condition of bladder is not often coexistent with stone.] However, were the symptoms most unequivocal, there is one circumstance which would always render it satisfactory to touch the stone with an instrument just before the operation; I mean the possibility of a stone being actually in the bladder to-day, and not to-morrow. Stones are occasion- ally forced, by the violent contractions of the bladder, during fits of the complaint, between the fasciculi of the muscular coat of this viscus, to- gether with a portion of the membranous lining of the part, so as to become what is termed en- cysted ; or, as there is reason to believe, the cyst is sometimes produced first, and the calculus is formed in it, as a kind of effect of the existence of the separate pouch. The opening into the cyst is frequently very narrow, so that the stone is much bigger than such orifice, in consequence of which it is impossible to lay hold of the extraneous body with the forceps, and the operation would neces- sarily become fruitless. (SIiarp''s CriticalInquiri/, p. 228, ed. 4.) In the article Urinary Calculi, I have no- ticed the probability of this having occurred in some of the instances, in which Mrs. Stevens's medicine was supposed to have actually dissolved the stone in the bladder; for, an encysted stone is not likely to be hit with the sound, nor to cause any inconvenience, compared with what a calculus, rolling about in the bladder, usually occasions. The degree of pain experienced by the patient depends, not only on the state of the urine and bladder, but on the size, shape, chemical qualities, and situation of the calculus. " A patient with a simple lithic acid calcidus, suffers less than one with a calculus composed externally of the triple phosphate; and the latter, less than one with a fusible calculus. The oxalate of lime, or mulberry calculus, on the whole, occasions more distress than the lithic acid calculus, probably on account of the irregularities which so frequenth-- exist on the surface of the former; but it occasions less distress than calculi composed of the phosphates." (See Sir B. Brodie, Op. cit. p. 229.) According to the same authorit}', patients with diseased prostate gland do not generally suffer more from stone in the bladder, when it afflicts them, than other individuals; and perhaps less, in consequence of the swelling of the prostate hindering the stone from falling on the neck of the bladder. He lias, however, seen three cases, in each of which there was a calculus in the bladder, complicated not only with an enlarged but an ulcerated prostate; and the sufferings were in these instances horribly severe. la two of them litho- tomy was performed: one of the patients died in five minutes after the operation ; and the other became inmiediately comatose, and sunk in a few hours. It is remarked by Deschamps, that when the stone is lodged in a particular cyst, or depression of the bladder, when it projects but verj' little; when it cannot shift its situation in the bladder, so ns to fall against the orifice of this viscus;