INFLAMMATION, stated that the flow of blood was accelerated during constriction; but this is now well known to be an error. " Nor am I sure (says Mr. Paget) that I have ever seen what is commonly described, the acceleration of the flow of blood in the con- tracting vessels." {Pac/el, hect. i.) " When the constriction of an artery is taking place (says Mr. W. Jones), the flow of blood is sometimes seen to become at first retrograde, sometimes at once in- terrupted. The retrograde movement seems to be owing to the constriction of the artery taking place from the branches towards the trunk." (Supra, p. 17.) The opposite idea appears to have arisen from a hasty application of the physical principle of the adaptation of the velocity of a stream to the calibre of its channel, and perhaps from a compari- son of the relative rapidity of the stream in the constricted arteries and the non-constricted capil- laries arising from them, in which it was, of course, comparatively slow. After a longer or shorter interval, then, this con- striction gives way, and is succeeded bj' actual dilatation of all the vessels, arteries, veins, and capillaries. And such dilatation, unlike the pre- liminary constriction, is a constant and necessary phenomenon of inflammation; for " although (says Mr. Paget), in certain parts, as the cornea, and vitreous humour, and the articular cartilages, some of the signs or effects of inflammation may be found where there are naturally no blood-vessels, yet I doubt whether these ever occur without enlargement of the vessels of the adjacent parts, and especially of those vessels from which the diseased structure derives its natural supply of nutritive material." {Paget, ut supra, Lect. i.) The dilatation always extends some way beyond the actual focus of the inflammation. Its amount is various. " It may be hardly perceptible, or it may increase the vessels to twice or three times their natural diameter." {Paget.) In consequence of this general enlargement, several capillaries which previously contained only the fluid portion of the blood are now able to admit red corpuscles, and thereby are rendered visible. This has given rise ■ to a statement, by Kaltenbriinner and others, that new vessels are formed. But although new vessels arise in the subsequent organisation of inflammatory effusion, all modern observers agree that nofie are formed so long as the inflammation lasts. The vessels, at the same time, not unfrequently undergo two other changes, secondary to this dila- tation. ]gt. They are commonly enlarged in all respects: in other words, they are elongated as ■well as dilated, and thus are thrown into curves, and those which are naturally curved become more tortuous. This is readily seen in an inflamed con- junctiva in man. 2nd. The other change is the formation, in the small arteries, of aneurismai dilatations, involving the whole, or a part onlj', of the circumference of the artery. " All the varieties of form which wo find in tl:e aneurisms of the great arteries are here found in miniature. This may (Mr. Paget suggests) be a mere acci- dent to tiie inflammatory process, due to some Weakening of the vessels;" or it may perhaps be " a Qisturbcd effort for the production of new blood- vessels by dilatation or out-growth." Of course, to this dilatation of the vessels are to be ascribed the redness and much of the swelling Of an mflamed part. But Mr. Paget points out that 'he redness is always out of proportion to the 25 enlargement of the vessels, being increased by two other causes—viz. crowding together of the red corpuscles, and sometimes an " oozing of the colouring matter of the blood into the interspaces between the corpuscles, and through the walls of the small vessels into the adjacent tissues." Some of the dilated small vessels maj', indeed, burst — in many inflammations they always burst — either in this or the next stage, and then h?emorrhage into the tissues is added to the other changes. The dilatation of the vessels is alwa3's accom- panied by an immediate and great acceleration of the flow of blood towards and through them {active congestion, or determination of blood, of authors), so that the inflamed part not only contains, but is also traversed by, an increased amount of blood. But, in a space of time, short in proportion to the intensity of the irritation, the flow of blood is again retarded, without, however, any further change in tlie calibre of the vessels, which continue fully dilated. This retardation is coincident with a marked change in the properties of the blood itself, manifested by a tendency, in the corpuscles to adhere to each other and to the sides of the vessels. In a healthy state of the circulation, the corpuscles keep in the centre stream of the capil- laries, where they cannot be individually distin- guished, in consequence of the rapidity of the flow. But now they lag behind, as though the liquor san- guinis was draining off from them, as Mr. W. Jones expresses it; and, becoming "applied to each other by their flat surfaces, with their diameters more or less nearly at right angles to the axis of the vessel," they accumulate in gradually increasing quantity, encroaching more and more on the marginal streams of the liquor sanguinis, becoming m'ore and more sluggish in their course, oscillating backwards and forwards, till at length they stagnate, entirely blocking up the streams of the invaded capillaries. Then is seen the condition known as capillary stasis, or stagnation. Whole groups of capillaries, more or less extensive in proportion to the severity of the inflammation, are thus blocked. From the capillaries the stagnation extends into the small vems and arteries. " The stagnant red corpuscles are so closely agglomerated together that they present the appearance of a uni.form red mass " ( WMrlon Jones.) The condition of the neighbour- mg parts is thus described by Mr. Paget: " As one surveys an area surrounding the part in 'whicli the blood is stagnant or moves slowly, one sees the streams increasing gradually in rapidity; and often, when there is stagnation in a considerable artery one may see the blood above or behind it pulsatMig with every action of the heart, driven up to the seat of stagnation, and then carried off by the collateral branches ; while, in the corresponding veins, it may oscillate less regularly, delaying till an accumulated force propels it forward, and, as it were, flushes the stream. Again, in the same area or in the area beyond it, one sees the full and rapid and more numerous streams of active congestion and this may extend over a Space altogether un- certain." {Paget, Lect. i.) Thus, at the very height of the inflammation, there are always to be seen some fcapillaries per- vious, v/liicli the blood is traversing with extreme rapiditj-. This is more manifest in the bat's win- than in the frog ; hence (says Mr, Paget) "my impression is, that in strong and active warni- blooded animals, stagnation of blood would bo