79 G TUMOR. woman's tliigli. The swelling w.is removed by an operation; but. the wound afterwards degenerated into a malignant ulcer, attended with considerable induration of the surrounding parts, and the woman died of the disease in two months. [Probably the growths we describe as recurrent fibroid at this day.] Mr. Abernethy conceives that tlie whole of the morbid part had been cut away, but that the contiguous parts had a disposition to disease, which was irritated by the operation; and that, if the nature of the case could have been known beforehand, it would have been right to have made a freer removal of the substance surrounding the tumor. Mr. Abernethy. places the mammary sarcoma between those sarcomatous swellings which are attended with no malignity, and the following ones which have this quality in a very destructive degree. [M. Robin has described, under the term heteradenoid growths, tumors which, although developed in regions destitute of glands, yet pos- sess the structure of glandular parenchyma. They are very rarely met with. See Fullin, t. i. p. 194.] The iuherculaled sarcoma is composed of a great many small, firm, roundish tumors of different sizes and colours, connected together by cellular substance. Some of the tubercles are as large as a pea; others equal a horsebean in size; most of them are of a brownish red colour; but some are yellowish. Mr. Abernethy met with this species of sarcoma chieflj' in the lymphatic glands of the neck. The disease proceeds to ulceration; becomes a painful and incurable sore; and ultimately oc- casions death. [This was probably cancer of the cervical lymphatic glands.] Another kind of sarcoma, mentioned in Mr. Abernelhy's classification of tumors, is distin- guished by the epithet meckiUary, from its having the appearance of the medullary matter of the brain. It appears to be an exceedingly malignant disease; communicates to the lymphatic glands a similar distemper; ulcerates and sloughs, and at last proves fatal. It is treated of in other parts of this book. (See Cancer, Fungus H^ematodes, Mamma, and Testicle, Diseases of.) Mr. Abernethj' includes .also in his classification, carcinomaloiis sarcoma. (See Cancer.) This last term is not consistent with other names adopted in the classification, which are taken from anatomical comparisons. Abernethy's arrangement omits, likewise, various new growths, whicli, ac- cording to his own principles, are tumors, and ought to have been included, as, for instance, those now frequently called morbid erectile tumors. (See Aneurism by Anastomosis, and NiEvi.) Mr. Lawrence has published a description of a tumor which occurs in that kind of cellular tissue which does not contain fat, and which he proposes to name the cellular lumoi; Like the adipose, it is not attended witii pain, may attain a considerable size, and becomes troublesome or dangerous only in consequence of its bulk. A case is detailed, in wliich such a tumor occupied tlie labium pudendi and buttock. Between this cellular tumor and the enormous swellings in whicli tlie male organs of generation are sometimes involved, it seems to Mr. Lawrence that there is tliis dis- tuieliou, that while the former are new productions, rising and increasing insensibly, without local or general disturbance or pain, the latter are mere enlargements of the cellular and cutaneous tissues, resulting from interstitial deposition, consequent on repeated attacks, or a long continuance of more or less violent inflammation, attended with the usual symptoms of it in the part, and in tlie constilu. tion. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 17.) All hypertrophies of the scrotum would not, however, agree with this description. (See Scrotum.) [Certain growths composed of very definite elements have been for some years distinguished by characteristic names from those tumors formed of solid substance, and grouped by Abernethy in his division of saicomatous and fibro-cellular. They <ire termed fibro-plastic, myeloid, recur- rent fibroid, and myxoma. Fibro-plastic growths, plasmoma.—M. Lebert distinguishes three varieties—1, fibro-plastic tissue having an inflammatory origin; 2, fibro-plastic liypertrophy; 3, autogenous fibro-plastic formations. This division, as M. Follin observes, may be very good in a treatise on pathological anatomy, but in a book on pathology it is only necessary to study tlie tumor composed of an accidental accumula- tion of fibro-plastic tissue. The}' grow in connection with the fibre tissues, and are generally enveloped in a well-defined capsule, often very delicate, however. Their sur- face, as long as the growth is small, is regular; but when large, marked irregularities arise upon their exterior. They are not very firmly attached to the organs, amongst which they intrude them- selves ; but they frequently have a basal attach- ment to the fibrous tissue from which they originate. Their vascular i^upply sometimes con- sists of innumerable minute vessels, at other times two or three or more principal trunks run into the mass, and ramify therein. They increase often very rapidly, and when not interfered with attain enormous proportions, v.'eighing many pounds. laf their early stage, and when small, they are firm^' and resist pressure; but as they increase they become softer and softer, and more and more lobulated. When the integuments covering them,, which never become infiltrated with their growth,} ulcerate, they form great outgrowths which retainj their vitalitj-, and from which serous fluid oozes.^ A section of one of these tumors is more or less, smooth, having, occasionally, here and there spaces; or cavities,'rather than well-defined cells. It is usually juicy, more or less so according to the quantity of fibre tissue present. The juice is never milky, but char and pale yellow. Nucle- ated, oval cells; elongated, fusiform, spindle-shaped fibres, of variable length, and with one or two nuclei and nucleoli, constitute, together \vi:h deli- cate fibre tissue, the elementary structure of theso growths. The clinical history of these tumors deserves close attention. Unlike the growths called can- cer, they do not appear to infiltrate organs, or to infect the lymphatic system. Consequently, "'^ neighbouring lymphatic glands are not affected uy their pro.Kimity. But, like cancer, they enjoy an undoubted tendency to local recurrence; and, cy*" associated with the'ir formation in the extremities, indisputable evidence exists to prove that tlicy may become developed in some of the internal organs after the removal of the first growth. The treatment of these growths consists in early