RECTUM, DISEASES OF. 526 indeed it is probaLle tliat mtinj'cases of irritation in the rectum accompanied by bleeding, observed in cliildren,depend upon the presence of these growths, and that a spontaneous cure not unfrequcntly takes place from the accidental rupture of the slender pedicle, without the real nature of the case having teen made out. In children they occasionally give rise to procidentia, but in that case the pro- cidentia will ordinarily cease on the removal of the polypus. Polypi in the rectum are not severely painful unless they are protruded through the anus, but when protruded they are liable to become in- flamed and to cause great irritation with spasm of the sphincter muscle. In many cases they are not protruded at all, the length of the pedicle not ad- mitting of it; or if occasionally protruded during the action of the bowels, they are immediately afterwards drawn back again within the rectum. But whether protruded or not, when they occur in adults they are exceedingly liable to irritate the sensitive region of the anal aperture, and to cause a tissure. This indeed would seem to be their ■very common result, for it has been present in about two-thirds of the eases of polypus in the adults which have come under the writer's notice. When a polypus of the rectum is combined with anal fissure, the acute symptoms occasioned by the latter condition are apt to cause the polypus to be overlooked, and it is of importance that this error should be avoided, for the surgical treatment ap- propriate to the fissure will be of no avail as long as the polypus, which is its exciting cause, is allowed to remain. Practically then, in every case of fissure of the anus, it is desirable that a careful examination of the rectum should be made, to ascertain whether a polypoid growth is or is not present. When the two conditions are combined, an inquiry into the history of the case will usually show tliat there has been some feeling of irritation about the rectum for a considerable period, often wiih loss of blood, but at a later date the acutely painful symptoms of fissure have been superadded. The earlier and milder symptoms have doubtless been caused by the polypus, and this by con- tinually falling against and irritating the anus, has in course of time produced the fissure. The above remarks on the combination of polypus with fissure refer especially to adult patients. It is never seen in children. In examining the rectum to ascertain the pres- ence of a polypus some care is required, for these little pedunculated growths, being very moveable, are apt to recede before the finger, and thus to elude detection. Treatment.—Tlie only saysfactory treatment of a rectal polypus is the application (jf a ligature around the pedide at its point of attachment. By the administration of an enema of warm v/ater the patient will usually be able to protrude the poly- pus, and the proceeding will be easy; but some- times it cannot be made to appear externally. In that case a speculum may be introduced to bring the tumor into view, when it may be seized by a vulsellum; or the vulsellum may be introduced into the rectum guided by the finger without the specu luM. In the softer tumors in children much trac- tion must not be used, or the pedicle will be liable to give way. Very little pain or inconvenience follows the operation; the ligature si'parates in t few days, and the patient is speedily and effoc tually cured. It is not safe, even when the polj'. pus is small, to remove it by excision; in one case where I did so, thinking tlie little tumor too insignificant to deserve a ligature, hajmorrhage to a serious extent followed, wiiich was only arrested with great difficulty, and by the application of the actual cautery to the wounded spot. In tliose cases in which a fissure is present, it should of course be treated by incision at the same time.] [Villous Tumor of the liectum.—This very rare disease mny be appropriately described under the head of polypus. A case has been described by Mr. Quain occurring in a lady Ait. 68, in whom, at each evacuation, a tumor of considerable size was protruded from the bowel. Its descent was attended with a discharge of slimy mucus, and often with considerable loss of blood, by which the patient had become much enfeebled. The tumor when partially prolapsed was found to be a large pulpy mass separable into several loosely-connected lobes, consisting of pencil-like processes. It was connected with the posterior part of the bowel about three inches from the anus. The tumor was about five inches long by two in breadth. It was composed of elongated slender processes, hanging loosely together on a basis of white fibrous tissue. The principal characteristics were, the being formed of elongated processes—villi—the want of solidity or firmness, from the small amount of connective tissue; great vascularity, with slight restraint to the escape of blood, on account of the coats of the vessels being thin, and but slightly protected from without. The tumor was removed by Mr. Quain with the ligature; the patient recovered favorably, and was ascertained to be free from any return of the disease, or inconvenience in the part, eighteen months afterwards, (See Quain, On Dis. of the Rectum,, p. 295.) A tumor of similar character, about the size of an orange, was removed by Mr. Gowlland in St. Mark's Hospital from a middle-aged male patient. The ligature was so applied as to separate the root of the tumor into four portions, each of which was tied separately. The patient recovered with- out any untoward symptoms. The tumor was cut off beyond the ligature, and was examined by Dr. Andrew Clark, who describes it as essentially an outgrowth of dense areolar tissue, permeated by bloodvessels and assuming a papillary form, the papillre being flattened and curled so as to repre- sent hollow cylinders, and being clothed with layers of epithelium, the free layers being cylin- drical; its minute structure closely resembling the soft polypus. Another case of villous tumor occurring m an elderly female, was under the care of the writer in St. Mark's Hospital. Here the growth was not so circumscribed, but was diifused so as to involve nearly the whole circumference of the bowel, and . ™ , 1 ■. P »^/^..n1 It was It was not .t therefore did not admit of complete removal. Two masses,however, were treated by the ligature, and the rest was afterwards lightly cauterised with nitric acid. By this means the bleeding arrested and the patient much relieved thought advisable to reapply the acid, or to use it with sufficient freedom to destroy the growth com- pletely, for fear of inducing a circular contraction of the bowel. When the patient left the hospital she was suffering but trilling inconvenience. Mr, Syme mentions three cases of vascular I