264 LITHOTRITY and the other portion reduced to fragments. It was a lithic acid calculus of oval shape and mo- derate size. The symptoms were immediately relieved by the operation ; the urgent straining, irritability, and pain ceased. The patient made a good recover)', and at the end of six weeks re- turned to the country perfectly cured. At the present time, more than five years after the opera- tion, he continues to enjoy good health, and is free from all symptoms of stone. The advantages of having recourse to lithotomy in this case are manifest. It was the only re- source. The mortality of lithotomy after lithotrity is much less than could, a priori, have been ex- pected. M. Civiale has had twenty-eight cases : of which nineteen recovered, and nine ended fatally. M. Souberbeille succeeded in ten out of twelve cases. M. Velpeau had three cases, which did well. In M. Bancal's work on lithotrity there are three cases related where excessive irritation of the bladder compelled him to give up crushing and have recourse to lithotom}'. These cases terminated favourably. The writer per- formed lithotomy in three cases after the first sitting in lithotrity; two recovered; and in the case which terminated fatally, the stone was large, weighing a little above four ounces. From the above it will be seen that M. Civiale regards all cases as simple, in other words, as emi- nently suited for lithotrity, when the stone is of moderate size and density, and the organs free from serious disease. What serious diseases he here includes are not described, but on looking at the observations at- tached to the tables we find ' irritability of the organs, enlargement of the prostate, catarrh of the bladder, sluggishness of the bladder, constitution somewhat enfeebled by the disease, yet not contra-indicating the operation. It would ap- pear indeed, that M. Civiale looks rather to the degree than to the nature of the affection of the genito-nrinary organs, the influence of which is to be taken into consideration. Complicated cases, as distinguished from simple, present themselves whenever the existence of stone is attended by certain morbid states which compel the surgeon to modify the manipulations, rendering these latter very painful, difKcult, or even impos- sible. M. Civiale passes in review these vjirious states, commencing with the least serious ; each state constitutes a series. I. Excessive sensibility of the Urethra and neck of the Bladder, ivith or witJiout increased contract- iiity of the Bladder.—These conditions do not centra-indicate lithotrity, but when they exist the surgeon must be prepared to find that he is com- pelled to abandon the operation, especially in those cases where the excitability of the organs depends on organic disease. The degree of irritation and its effects offer the principal circumstances to be taken into consideration, but in all cases it is ne- cessary that the stone be small and not hard. '2. Atony of the Bladder.—This condition is not rare amongst calculous patients, and it renders the manipulations easy; but it is always an unfavour- able circumstance, as it may at any time give rise to complete retention of urine. Atony of the bladder does not contra-indicate lithotrity, but llie results of the first manipulation must be watched, as they will show what the surgeon has to expect from the operation. Success is the rule, if we can prevent accumulation of urine in the bladder and the arrest of fragments in the urethra; but in some cases, nervous or inflammatory accidents supervene with such intensity that the operation must be aban- doned, and lithotomy becomes our sole resource. 3. Strictures and oilier abnormal states of the Urethra.—The complication of stone with stricture of the urethra is extremely frequent, yet prelimi- nary treatment seldom if ever fails to bring the canal into such a state as will admit the introduction of instruments. 4. Enlurycment of tlie Prostate Gland.—This complication exercises a great influence over the performance and the results of lithotrity. As the obstacle is chiefly of a mechanical nature, its in- fluence is to be estimated by its extent. At the same time the co-existence of organic lesion of the bladder must be taken into account. The first point which the operator has to determine is whether the size of the gland be sufficiently great to prevent the working of the litbotrite in the bladder without danger. He should then ascertain the degree of sensibility of the parts, the size, density, and number of the calculi, and other cir- cumstances calculated to impede the operation. If these circumstances be not of sufficient importance in themselves to contra-indicate the operation, it may be proceeded with. Considerable enlargement of the prostate will often render necessary the employment of a pecu- liar litliotrite, which the writer introduced to the notice of surgeons some years ago {Lancet, Jan. 30, 1858). A constant effect of prostatic enlarge- ment is elongation of the urethra. This length- ening of the canal may be connected with several conditions of the enlarged gland ; it is, however, mainly confined to the prostatic portion of the urethra, and occurs in one of two ways. As the enlargement pushes the neck of the bladder under the arch of the pubes, it necessarily draws up and elongates the vesical end of the urethra; or, while the gland is slowly enlarging from before backwards, that portion of the urethra which tra- verses it must necessarily follow the abnormal de- velopment of the prostate, and become elongated. In his work on the prostate {The Enlarged Prostate, p. ?3, 1858), Mr. Thompson observes that ' in some preparations which he examined, the uretlira measured three inches from the orifice of the bladder to the membranous portion, instead of an inch and a half, which is the normal length.' In all cases of this kind, more especially when the middle lobe is affected, the orifice of the bladder is thrown backwards in proportion to the development of the enlarged lobe; and hence the point of any instrument used is apt to catch against the walls of the canal before it enters the bladder. The effects of the morbid growth on the cavity of the bladder will depend on the degree of prostatic enlargement, and on the lobe principally affected. When the enlargement is chiefly confined to the middle lobe of the prostate, which encroaches on the floor of the bladder, the capacity of that viscus at its lower part is propor- tionably diminished, and the effect of this extension of the middle lobe of the prostate backwards is to form a reservoir or sac beliind the enlarged gland. The floor of the bladder is here greatly depressed; the urine remains as in a sac; and here a calculus may be lodged, the detection of which is often ex- tremely difficult.