TUMOR. satisfactorily established, one important step will be made to a knowledge of the differences between acute and chronic inflaramation, but much would yet remain for explanation, before our ideas of the latter process would be at all complete. On this part of the inquirj-, different pathologists entertain very different views. Three explanations liave been offered of the mode in which tumors originate and grow. " First, the effusion of blood and its coagulation, and the subsequent organisa tion of the coagulum ; secondly, the effusion and or ganisation of coagulating lymph; thirdly, chronic in flammation." (Lawrence, Med.Chir. Tram. vol. xvii p. 6.) According to these explanations it seems to Mr. Lawrence that tumors ought to pass tiirough successive stages, and to present different appearances at different periods of their develop, ment. For instance, we ought to find them at first, as masses of coagulated blood, or coagulating lymph, and then to observe various degrees of transition from those substances to the textures which characterise the perfect growth. But, says he observation discloses nothing of this kind : tumors, in their earliest state and smallest size, have their peculiar structure as well marked as in their sub- sequent progress and full development. A fatly tumor, not exceeding the bulk of a pea, differs only in size from one as large as the head. Effu- sions of blood into the cellular texture from exter- nal violence are of daily occurrence : if sueh ex- travasations could become organised, and then form tumors, it appears to Mr. Lawrence, that the latter should prevail almost universally. *'We see, however, that the blood, thus poured out, either disappears by absorption, or irritates the fiurrounding parts, and causes suppuration, by ■which it is expelled." The explanation of the origin of tumors from the organisation of effused blood, «eems to Mr. Lawrence to have been sug- gested by the statements of Mr. Hunter, respect- ing the production of vessels in coagulated blood, the agency of this process in effecting the union of wounds, and its occurrence in effusions of blood into serous cavities. Mr. Lawrence has never seen any satisfactor}- proof of blood becoming or- ganised, when effused in wounds, bruises, or into serous cavities, or when deposited in aneurisraal sacs. Nothing, he observes, is more frequent than the interstitial effusion of lymph, in consequence of inflammation; the substance "thus poured out is not formed into tumors ; it is absorbed as the in- flammation subsides, or its partial organisation causes the enlargement and condensation of the affected structure. None of the phenomena usually considered as characteristic of inflammation are observed to precede the formation of tumors. These growths occur insensibl}', and often arrive at considerable size before persons are aware of their existence. If the preceding views respect- ing the origin and growth of tumors were cor- rect, the attempts to check their production and increase by leeciies, cold applications, and the antiphlogistic treatment generall}-, would be ra- tional; we find, however, that such means exert no influence over accidental productions, although they may be employed with advantage in some of swellings caused by changes of structure tl ana this marked difference in the effects of ticat- inent 13 a further reason against confounding to- gether the two kinds of disease.'" (Lataence, vol. cit. p. 8.) It would appear, however, that coagula of blood and fibrine are capable of becoming organised under particular circumstances, though, perhaps never, or very rarely, under those adverted to by Mr. Lawrence. Even in the production of some kinds of tumors and new forinutions, little doubt, I think, can be entertained, that the organisation of these substances, and especially of coagulable lymph, or fibrine, is an essential part of the pro- cess. Thus Dr. Carswell, who adopts the expres- sion analogous tissues, to signify all solid, morbid products which resemble the niUural elementary tissues of the body, remarks that they present two important differences in regard to their origin. " Theplasticelenientof the blood,thespontaneously coagulable part of this fluid, or the fibrine, is by far the most frequent source, and furnishes the materials for the formation of the most perfect ex- amples of the analogous tissues. It is to those which have tliis origin that the term analogous, accidental, adventitious, or psf.udo-formalions, is correctly applied. Another and entirely different origin of many of these tissues, is a change taking place in the primary or existing elementary tissues, and even in organs, b\- means of which they are converted into tissues of a different kind, as, for example, when cartilage is converted into bone, or cellular into serous or fibrous tissue. The ana- logous tissues which have this mode of origin, are, in order to distinguish them from the former, called analogozis transformations.''' The analogous tissues are subdivided by Dr. Carswell; for he observes, that "although originating in tlie plastic element of the blood, they may be formed out of this substance, whether it be separated from the blqod, and effused on the surface of organs in the state of coagulable Ij-mph, in consequence of in- flammation ; or whether it be separated from this fluid, which had ceased to circulate in the vessels, or had escaped from them in consequence of mere physical causes. The evidence (says this distin- guished pathologist) in support of the doctrine, which maintains that analogous formations ma\- originate in the fibrine of the blood, is derived from the changes which are observed to take place, in the blood which has ceased to circulate in the heart or blood-vessels, or which has been effused into the substance of an organ. The cessation of the circulation, which precedes these changes in the blood, may be effected by the operation of me- chanicil, physical, and vital agents, which act either on the blood itself, or on the vessels in which it is contained. The most obvious ex- amples of the operation of the first kind of agents, are those in which the circulation is at once ar- rested either in an arter)', or a vein, or both, bj' the application of a ligature; or those in which the blood stagnates in the veins, for example, of the nfeiior extremities, from a mechanical obstacle to ts return situated in a remote part, or in the heart. The first change, which the blood is observed to undergo in these circumstances, is coagulation, the extent of which in an artery is .almost always determined by the situation of the first branch of considerable size sent off from the obstructed vessel between the ligature and heart, but which, in the veins, varies with the situation of the obstacle,and the greater or loss facilities ailbrded for the deve- lopment of a collateral circulation. 'W'hatever may be the extent of the coagulation, the subse- quent changes which take place in the blood are