WOUNDS. 10-2-2 general system. If death follows, it may be in a few days, or not for weeks, when the patient is finally worn out by the suppuration and hectic. In forming an opinion of the final result, we must take into account not merely the violence of the local and constitutional symptoms, but also the power of resistance possessed by the patient, and the risk that may attend the separation of sloughs after the brunt of the attack has passed away. Purulent infection may occur, and in any case the recovery cannot fail to be very slow, and often unsatisfactory. Even if not the precursor of incurable disease of the lungs or otiier internal organ, severe local in- jury often results from the accident. Lastly, Malignant pustule is another result of the inoculation of an animal poison. In this case it is derived from contact with murrained cattle. The hides, hoofs, horns, hair, and even the flesh and blood, of such animals, have the power of convej'ing it to man ; but he in turn does not, so far as is at present known, transmit it further. This poison appears to be very powerful, as it is capable uf being carried even by insects. There is reason also to think, that fences or posts with which the diseased oxen have been in contact may serve as media for conveying the contagion to man. The dis- ease first siiows itself by local signs in from twelve to sixty hours after contact, and the constitutional symptoms do not appear usually till the local have made some progress. The inoculated spot gets irritable, itchy, and somewhat painful. It becomes red, a small vesicle forms which is filled with turbid serum, and this passes into the pustular stage, with a red hard base. The inflammation extends, and if it be a limb which is affected, it will swell, become red, (Edematous and painful—though merepainful- nessis not usually a leading sign of this complaint. The lympliatics and veins are affected, and as the pustule breaks, a dark dry gangrenous spot is found on the surface, which soon implicates the skin throughout its entire thickness. Crops of vesicles or bullae appear around the original spot of inocu- lation, and the constitution soon becomes gravely affected. Fever of a low form sets in with a rigor and great disturbance, and leads with much rapidity to prostration, delirium and sinking. The evidences of blood-poisoning are well marked, before death, in the deep prostration of the powers of life, and the " post mortem " appearances correspond. When inoculation takes place on the face, the disfigure- ment is hideous in the extreme. Cojislitulional Effects of Wounds.— Besides the special consequences produced by poisons inocu- lated on wounds (and which have been in the preceding paragraphs sufficiently alluded to\ ex- tensive incised, lacerated or contused wounds may be followed by shock and by fever. The shock may be violent and the reaction proportionately trying. The usual remedies for such conditions must be employed. Depressing treatment should as far as possible be avoided, as the powers of life will soon require all the sustaining support they can receive. The fever, at first sthenic and threatening, will in the prouress of the case be apt to assume the typhoid or hectic type, and will require to be treated accordingly. During convalescence every means of recruiting the genera) vigour must be sedulously employed. Tonics, generous food, cod-liver oil and country air are the remedies conunonly enjoined, and are, if judiciously used, sufficient to meet tiie needs of the case. The appearance of any internal disease, the result of the traumatic lesion, must be watched for and combated. The Repair of Wounds.—The mode in which wounds heal is evidently a subject of the highest interest and importance. Only a brief sketch of the process can be here attempted. Mr. Paget, in his " Suigical Pathology," has most fully and most ably described the whole, and he has shown that open wounds heal in one of five ways: viz., im- mediate union ; primary adhesion; granulation ; secondary adhesion, or the union of granulating surfaces ; and, lastly, by scabbing. The blood which is poured out in varying quantities between the lips of a recent wound, and which is always an obstacle and hindrance to its repair, till it is removed or organised, is got quit of either by being thrown out mechanically by the swelling which attends i.he inflammation set up by its presence, or it is absorbed by the vessels of the organising reparative material which comes to be poured out, and which encloses the blood within Its meshes. The clot is decolourised, altered, de- generated, and finally absorbed. In rare cases the blood is neither ejected nor absorbed, but be- comes organised, and takes part in the recon- struction of the breach. The material by which wounds are repaired is fibrinous organisable coagulable lymph, and the more perfect it is in its intimate organisation— in its vitality—and the more truly those conditions requisite to its sound development are supplied, the more rapid and complete will the result be. In open wounds, Mr. Paget, following the obser- vations of Schwann, has described the lymph as passing through a structure of nucleated cells to fibrillation, the cells undergoing elongation to form the filaments of the coiniective tissue which re- sults. Virchow, on the other hand, concludes from his observations, that the bundles of fibres are formed, not by the cells, but by the intercellidar substance. The cells he represents as constitut- ing the corpuscles of the connective tissue and as throwing out processes from their ends and sides to unite with one another, and establish a stellated network between the masses of fibrillse formed as above stated. In subcutaneous woimds, Mr. Paget states that the lymph is transformed, not from nucleated cells, but from nucleated blastema—a molecular homo- geneous matrix of fibrine, which developes clear oval nuclei in its substance. Fibro-cellular tissue is formed from the blastema assuming a filamen- tous disposition. This process of development is, as iMr. Paget points out, more p. rfect and com- plete than that occurring in open wounds, and both may be observed simultaneously in the same wound. . . Let us now give a short resume of the diflerent ways in which wound-" heal. i. /mmedialu Union" of Macartney, i e. llie growing directly together of the divided surtacc.', without the intervention of any new agency what- ever. This was the " union by the first intention of Hunter. The disjoined parts adhere " muuc- diately " and directly. In order that this ni"'-' complete, perfect, and rapid issue should he »D- tained, it is evident that all foreign bodies must tie carefully and completely removed from lie'"'^'''"^^ the cut surfaces ; that the vitality of these sij'- faces must be wholly uncomproinisea ; tliat the