876 UTERUS, INVERSION OF. Denmnn thnuglit tliat, if two lioiirs had clnpsetl, reduction could hardly be effected. Crosse, even, a s\irgeon neither desponding nor unskilful, says: " You can only expect success by attempting the reduction within the first few hours;" and tliis refers only to partial invei'sion. In total inver- sion he was strongly impressed with the opinion that replacement could only succeed by attempts made almost immediately. When reduction is effected, tlie prospect of recovery rises greatly. But still many die of the shock or htemor- rhage. If not reduced, the patient has to run the hazards of gangrene (this is rare); of ha3morrhage, and mucous and purulent discharges; of irritative fever. Cases aie recorded of spontaneous reduc- tion taking place months and even years after the accident. That the minor degrees, depression and iuLroversion, may be spontaneously cured, it is not difficult to understand. Crosse says, " There is not a shadow of evidence of tidal inversio?!, in the strict sense, replacing itself spontaneously." A few cases, as those related by- Boyer {Maladies chirurgicalcs) and Baudelocque (Daillez, These), are examples of reduction following external force in the form of a blow or succussion. Dr. Meigs, nevertheless, relates several cases. Of such cases Dr. West remarks that " it is easier to conceive that an experienced man should commit an error of diagnosis than to understand how any efforts of nature could cure a chronic inversion of the womb." The error may be one of the two fol lowing. Either the tumor was a polypus, whicli has disappeared by being spontaneously cast oft'; or it was a true inverted uterus, which has been separated by sloughing, and cast off in like manner. In some instances the subject of inversion has evinced more or less perfect toleration of her in- firmity. This was the result in a case reported by Guyon {Journ. de Cldi: et de Med. prat. 1861), in which inversion had existed twenty years will: out alteration of health; in one by Dr. Comstock (Bcsion Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. viii.), the patient followed her occupation as a dairymaid; in one by Dewees {Midivifery), she was enjoying good health ten years after the accident ; in one by Ramsbotham, the patient regained flesh, hei health became good; in one by Lisfranc {Clin. C/iir. 1843), he examined the body of an old ■woman at the Salpetrieie, the uterus was com- pletely inverted, it had not been suspected during life; in one by Dr. C. H. Lee {American Journ. of Med. Sc. 18C0;, inversion remained undetected for twenty-five years, ablation was given up, the patient was so well; in other cases referred to by Gregory Forbes ; and in one reported by Dr. Woodman {Ohslet. Trans, vol. \x.), brought to the London Hospital whilst I was obstetric physici.in there. When reduction has been effected, the uterus may recover its function, and pregnancy ensue. Many such examples are known. There is also a probability, not, indeed, high, but suggesting caution, that' inversion will again take place during labour. For a long time after replacement, the cavity of the uterus probably remains shorter than normal. The thickened walls take time to resume their natural condition. I state this from the observation of u case reduced by myself. This depends, no doubt, in some instances upon the re- duction being imperfect, the fundus remaining in the state of depression, or squatting. What has been said will indicate some of the principles of treatment. Attempt to reduce should be made as early as possible; but success should never be despaired of. In the recent accident, we may or may not have the attached placenta complicating the case. Should we first detach the placentaIf we do, we lose a little time. If we do not, there is the greater bulk to pass back through the os uteri. I believe it is the better practice to get rid of this complication first. To effect it, look for the margin of the placenta, in- sinuate one or two fingers between it and the globe of the uterus; supporting this organ by the other hand, continue to peel off the placenta by sweeping the fingers along. When it is wholly detached, proceed to reduction. The mode of manipulation must var}' according to circumstances. If the uterus is large, flabby, and the cervix di- lated, it may be quickly replaced by depressing the fundus with the fingers gathered into a cone, and carrying the hand onwards through the os. Lazzati recommends to apply the closed fist to the fundus. This is better than the fingers, which, as he truly says, might perforate the uterine wafl. lii executing this, two things must on no account be omitted : one is to support the uterus by the other hand, pressing firmly down upon it from above the symphysis pubis externally, lest we lacerate the vagina ; the other is to observe the course of the pelvic axes, and the form of the pelvic brim. Pressure will first be made a little backwards towards the hollow of the sacrum ; then the di- rection must be forwards to the brim, and at the same time to one side, so as to avoid the sacral promontury. As in attempts to reduce a retro- verted gravid uterus, faiiijre has often ensued from not understanding tiiis latter point. It w.as first, I believe, pointed out by Dr. Skinner of Liver- pool. I can testify to the value of the rule from per- sonal experience. By attention to it mainly, I was enabled to reduce an uterus in fifteen minutes which had been inverted for ten days, defying re- peated efforts of other practitioners. The patient made a good recovery. When reduction has been completed, the hand, following the receding fundus, will occupy the cavity of the uterus, and the organ will be grasped between the hand inside and the hand fupporting outside. The opportunity should be taken to in- duce contraction by pressure externally, and by excitation internall}-. But I would not withdraw the hand from the cavity, lest re-inversion take place, until I had taken the following further security. Pass up along the palm of the hand an uterine tube, connected with a Higginson's m- jecting-svringe; throw up by means of this six or eight ounces of the weaker solution of perchlorii e of iron {Brit. Pliar. 1867), so os to bathe the whole inner surface of the uterus. The eftects of this are, to instantly constringe the mouths of the \es- • sels, to stop bleeding, to excite uterine contraction, and to corrugate the tissues. Wlicn this state is induced there is safety. Or the styptic may be applied by swabbing, by means of a pledget ot cotton or lint carried on a probang. 1 lowed this practice in numerous cases ot post partum luemorrhage. It has never failed to aire^t htumorrhago ; and if the vital powers weic