POLYPUS. 464 where it had annihilated 'the anterior lobe of the left hemisphere of the brain. Yet, notwithstanding this effect, the boy was not comatose, nor insen- sible, till a few hours before his decease. All the surrounding bones had been more or less absorbed, and the place from which the excrescence first grew could not be determined. Richter has denied the validity of the objections urged by Pott against attempting to relieve some forms of nasal polypi; and he declares that neither the malignant nature of a polypus, its adhesions, immoveableness, ulcerations, nor disposition to hse- morrhage, &c. are any just reason for leaving the disease to itself. (See Anfmgsgr. der Wundarzn. b. i. kap. 21.) This declaration, however, at least with reference to any operation, is quite repugnant to the advice delivered by all the most experienced surgeons in England, who, in cases of decidedly malignant polypi, always restrict their interference to palliative means. [ As Mr. Cooper does not refer to polypi of a fibrous character, the editor relates a case which occurred in hia own practice, and which will contrast well with the one just described by Mr. Cooper. For two other cases see Nose. In all these, operative procedure was had recourse to, and proved success- ful where the disease could be completely removed. A patient was admitted into St. Mary's Hospital, in 1860, with a large tumor impli eating the two superior maxillary bones, filling both nostrils, and encroaching considerably on the cavity of the mouth. The features were much dis- torted by the growth, the nose being projected forwards and the superior maxillary bones made to bulge both forwards and laterally, so as to produce a very peculiar and hideous deformity. On ex- amining the growth in the buccal cavity, it was found to form an extensive convex, irregular swelling, pressing down the tongue and completely concealing the soft palate. Three loose teeth still remained attached to the alveolar process on the right side; on the left the teeth had all disappeared, The position of the orbitar plates was but slightly interfered with—very little bony material could be distinguished by the finger in the position of the palatine processes of the superior maxillary or palate bones. The growth which occupied their place was soft and elastic, and was ulcerated in two or three spots of the size of a fourpenny piece. A small portion of the tumor taken from one of these spots was submitted to examination under the microscope by Dr. Handfield Jones, and was considered by him to be a specimen of albuminous sarcoma. Deglutition and respiration were seriously interfered with by the locality of the growth. The senses of taste and smell were greatly impaired, the eyelids were occasionally cedematous and the conjunctivae inflamed; but the sight remained perfect, indeed the floors of the orbits were but slightly, if at all, displaced. Th growth first showed itself within the left nostril five or six years ago, and presented the appear- ance of an ordinary nasal polypus. It gave him no pain at this early date, but as it inconve nienced him by blocking up the nostril, he ap- plied as an out-patient at this hospital, where he was under the care of Mr. Spencer Smith The polypoid growth was removed several times by Mr. Smith, at intervals of four or six months, always with considerable relief, and was attended by no unusual symptoms either at the timo of the operiition or al'tcrwiirds whicli could lead to the suspicion that it would ultimately involve the bones of the face. Both superior maxillary bones, both palate bones, both inferior turbinated bones, the vomer, and a con- siderable portion of the ethmoid bone, were involved in the tumor. These, together with the entire mass of the tumor, were removed by operative procedure on the 2l8t of November. The patient was placed in the sitting position, and chloroform having been administered, two corresponding incisions were made on either side of the face, commencing a few lines internal to the angles of the mouth, and con- tinued upwards and slightly inwards by the side of the nose to the inner margins of the orbits. These incisions allowed of the reflection of a central and two lateral flaps. The lateral flaps, composed of a small portion of the upper lip and of the cheek, served when reflected to expose the portions of the tumor corresponding to the tuberosities of the superior maxillary bones; while the central flap, composed of the bulk of the upper lip and of the soft parts of the entire nose, when dis- sected up, fully laid bare the cavities and osseous boundaries of both nostrils. A strong pair of bone forceps were now used to detach the superior maxillary bones from the malar bones at the infra orbitar fissure on either side. The as- cending nasal processes of the former bones were next divided. Pressure being now made on the entire mass in the downward direction, the substance of the tumor gave way, leaving about one third of its bulk connected with the palate bones and part of the tuberosities of the superior maxillary bones. In order to remove the remainder of the tumor, the forceps were again used on either side between what remained of the tuberosities of the maxillary bones and the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid and palate bones. The rest of the tumor was now displaced, but was still held by the soft palate. This was divided by a scalpel, and the whole removed. On examining carefully the im- mense cavity from which the diseased structures had been removed, the mucous membrane covering the vomer, where it is attached to the body of the sphenoid bone, was found thickened and diseased; the vomer, with its diseased covering, was conse- quently taken away. This state of membrane, however, was continued on to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and could not be entirely re- moved. The htemorrhage, though profuse, was much less than could have been expected, and no ligatures were required. The flaps were supported by compresses of lint introduced into the mouth and nostrils, and their edges were brought together by interrupted sutures. No hare lip pins were used. The patient recovered after two separate attacks of erysipelas, which however did not prevent the flaps uniting, although they endangered his life and rendered his convalescence very tedious. The por- tion of the tumor attached to the occipital bone was, at a later date, when he had recovered his strength, touched weekly with the potassa fusa. The whole had sloughed away before he left the hospital in April, 1861. He is now, six years from the date of the operation, living, and imsnaa no return of the disease. Two other cases of fibroid polypus of less extent, but miplicatmg the lachrymal passages, orbits, and frontal snmscs oc- curring in the practice of the writer, and requuing Nose of this dictionary. Three other very inter-