•18 attempt to dn this alwaj'S brings on a violent pa- roxysm of spasms, attended with such a sense of suftocation that it cannot be endured. The expe- rience of the late Mr. Cruttwell, of Bath, and .that of Baron Larrey, fully prove that no assist- ance can be derived from the use of flexible tubes. (See Mem. de Chir. Militaire, t. i. p. 247.) Some- times, however, the obstacle to the administration of medicines, arising from the closure of the jaw, is prevented by loss of some of the incisor teeth, and, in a few instances. Baron Larrey adopted the plan of extracting two of them. This would be useless, however, when deglutition is totally hin- dered, <as happened in one instance recorded by the latter eminent surgeon. [Op. cit., t. iii. p. 301.) Clysters are the only resource, when the spasm of the fauces cannot be overcome. In this way, as much as a drachm of the extract of opium has been introduced into the bowels at one dose. Opiate frictions upon the jaws, throat, and other parts of the body, have been practised. Opiate plasters have also been applied to the masseter muscles, and behind the ears. This external use of opium, however, can only be regarded as a feeble and probably useless means. A curious fact, noticed by Abernethy, seems to offer some explanation of the little effect of some of the most powerful medicines in tetanus: on opening the stomach of a patient who had died of tetanus after taking large doses of opium, thirty drachms of this substance were found undissolved in the stomach. I believe it to be now generally admitted, that opium answers only in the milder or idiopa- thic form of the disease. The testimony of Rush, McGrigor, and Fournier-Pescay, is decidedly against the efficacy of this medicine in other ex- amples of tetanus. As the costiveness always produced by tetanus is rendered still more obstinate by opium, laxative medicines and clysters should constantly accom- pany its employment. It is on this ground that opium is frequently objected to as rather injurious. The testimony of the army physicians, as we learn from the report of Sir James McGrigor, is highly in favour of a rigid perseverance in the use of purgatives, given in adequate doses to produce daily a full effect. Dr. Forbes states, that a solu- tion of sulphate of magnesia, in infusion of senna, was found to answer better than any other purga- tive ; and it was daily given in a sufficient quantity to procure a copious evacuation, which was ahvaj's dark-coloured and highly offensive ; and to this practice he chiefly attributes, in one severe case, the removal of the disease. {Med. Chir. Trans. vol. vi. p. 452.) Dr. Good condemns drastic purgatives, seemingly in forgetfulness that mild ones have no effect. Strong cathartics have, in- deed, frequently proved of great service, and none has higher repute than croton oil. Thus, in a case recorded by Dr. Briggs, half a drachm of calomel, as much scammonj', and fifteen grains of gamboge, were given in one dose, followed by a clyster of half an ounce of turpentine, and two drachms of aloes. As these powerful means pro- duced no effect, two drops of the oil of croton were given in llie evening, and a clyster of four ounces of sulphate of magnesia in a pint of infu- sion of seima. In less than an hour, a black stool was voided, and relief immediately experienced. (See £</,„6. Med. Journ. No. 05, p. 277.) TETANUS. A spasmodic rigidity of the muscles being the most prominent symptom of tetanus, it was natural for practitioners to try the efficacy of some other antispasmodic medicines besides opium; and those which have been principally the subject of ex- periment, are castoreum, a;ther, conium macula- tum, musk, camphor, and latterly digitalis. In many cases, opium .and camphor have been ex- hibited together. Indeed, Larrey asserts that, of all the medicines hitherto proposed by skilful prac- titioners, the extract of opium combined with cam- phor, and the nitrate of potash, dissolved in a small quantity of the almond emulsion, and given in doses more or less strong, produces the most favourable effects, since patients, who have an aversion to otlier fluids, take with pleasure this mixture, the action of which must be promoted by bleeding, if necessary, and blisters, under the cir- cumstances which have been specified. (See Mini, de Chir. Militaire, t. i. p. 271.) In the same work several cases are detailed which were bene- fited by such treatment. Although some practitioners have fancied that they saw good effects result from musk, yet the majority, who have made trial of both this and camphor, in cases of tetanus, have found no reason to recommend these medicines. One hundred and fifty grains of musk were given, in the space of twelve hours, to a girl thirteen years old, affected with incipient tetanus ; but no salutary effect was produced. We learn also from Sir James McGrigor, that sether, camphor, musk, and other antispasmodics, as likewise the alkalies, were tried by our military surgeons in Spain, and found unsuccessful. (A/e- dico-Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 458.) From the same authority we find that digitalis, in large doses, was tried in several cases in the Peninsula ; and that it, with several other medi- cines enumerated, failed in almost every case of acute tetanus which occurred. (P. 454.) In one case, the jaw remained fixed to the last, and the patient was never entirely free from spasms. (P. 458.) Prussic acid and belladonna have been tried, but do not retain at present many advocates in this country. Prussic acid vv.as tried, however, by Dr. Rees, in America, in combination with the application of caustic along the spine, and the patient recovered. Analogy has led to the employment of the warm bath, as a plan which seemed to promise great benefit, by producing a relaxation of the contracted muscles. But, notwithstanding this means has appeared, in a few instances, to occasion some little relief, particularly when the practitioner has been content with mere fomentations, it generally fails, and often has even done mischief. This may per- haps be, in some measure, ascribable to the dis- turbance and motion which the patient must ne- cessarily undergo in order to get into the bath; for it is very well known, that every exertion on the part of the patient is apt to excite most violent paroxysms of spasms. The author of the .nrticle Teianus, in the Encydopalie Mclhodiquc, had seen the warm bath do harm in two or three cases, in which it was expected to liave done good. Though numerous writers have recom- mended the trial of the plan, it would be cult to trace, in their accounts, any decidedly show that its .adoption lowed by unequivocal benefit. The wiirm bath difli- facts which was ever fol-