MOLLITIES the bone has taken place, fragility no longer exists, having gradually given way to the extreme flexibility ■.viiicTi ia the cliaracteristic feature of this atfectioii.j The causes of this extraordinary disease are buried in obscurity. It is supposed, however, to depend upon some peculiar state of the consti- tution, and the individuals, attacked by it, have beeen remarked to be mostly about, or rather beyond, the middle period of life {J. Wilson, vol, cit. p. 252), and generally women. (Neii- munn, in Abhaiidl. der K. K. Josephs-Acad.'h. ii. p. 173. Portal, Coars d''Anaiomie, t. i. p. 15.) One instance, however, is reported, in which the patient was a young man, seventeen years of age {Thomassln, in Jourii. de Med. t. xliii. p. 222) ; and other cases where men have been the subjects of tins disease are on record. [Several patients have referred the commencement of the disorder to a previous injury or illness {Med. Chit: Trans. vols, xxvii., xxxiii., xlv. ; Lancet, 1852, vol. i.). Pregnancy would seem to be an exciting cause, and especially in those who have borne many children. Occasionally the disease has appeared to be here- ditary {Brit. Med. Journ. Sept. 1859). Severe continuous pain in the affected parts is usually the earliest symptom, with wasting of the muscles, and great general debility; the urine is often highly charged with phosphates (/V/ei^. Chir. Trans. vols, xxvii., xxxvii.; Lancet, \Vio'2, vol. i. ; ibid. 1862, vol. ii.), or more rarely with a peculiar animal matter, closely resembling albumen {Philos. Trans, vol. Ixvi. ; Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxiii.). Gradual softening and yielding of the bones then follow, or, in some few cases, these have been the first manifestations of the disease. In some instances, the bones become so soft that they may be bent in any direction, and the most fearful dis- tortion takes place; in others, they are more brittle, and even will break spontaneously, so that several fractures have occurred at once in the same patient. Death generally results from exhaustion, or from the etfects of pressure upon the viscera through deformity. After death the bones are found softened to such an e-xtent that they may be easily divided by a knife; the cells are ex- panded and filled with a red pulpy material, which is largely mixed with a soft fat or oil; in this oily semifluid matter, blood corpuscles and nucleated cells are seen under the miJroscope, whilst the minute osseous structure is very indistinct. In more advanced cases the bony tissue has almost disappeared, a mere shell remaining attached here and there to the periosteum; this membrane is generally much thickened, so as to retain the shape of the bone and to form a dense envelope to the fatty gelatinous substance above mentioned. In a few ppeciuiens of the disease, this fatty matter has been replaced by a more liighly organised structuri', which contained a large cpiantity of oil, and was not dissimilar in colour or consistency to a pirce of liver. {Couch's Siir./cri/, vol. ii. p. 402; Trans. Med. Chir. Soc. Jidiii. \q\. ii.).] As a detailed description of a case will give n fuller idea of the disease, I shall quote that of Madame Supiot. In the year 17-17 she had a full, whicli occasioned her to keep lier bed for some time, and left great pain and weakness in her loins and lower extreniitii s. In about a year and a half afterward.", she began to perceive her left leg particularly ;ill"ccted. Along with this weak- ness, she had violent pains over her whole body, OSSIUM, 297 which increased after a miscarriage, and still more after a natural delivery, in the year 1751. She was now seized with starting;., great inquietude, and such violent heats that she was almost con- tinually in a sweat, and could not bear the least covering even in the coldest weather, and while her pains continually increased, she noticed that her urine precipitated a white sediment. Her pains abated on the appearance of the sediment, but she now observed that her limbs began to bend, and from this time the softness of them gradually increased till her death. In the month of April, 1752, the trunk of the body did not exceed 23 inches in length, the thorax was exceedingly ill formed, and the bones of the upper part were very much distorted; those of the lovver p:irt were considerably bent. At length, the thigh-bones became so pliable that her feet could easily be laid on each side of her head. The right side did not, till after some time, become so deformed as the left; but it was surprising to ob- serve the alterations which daily took place, and the different figures assumed by the limbs, in con- sequence of the increased softness of the bones; so that, when the sediment in the urine was consider- able, the disease of the bones seemed to be at a stand, increasing considerably when it was sup- pressed. Besides this, she had violent pains, startings, difBculty of breathing, spitting of blood, and lastly, a fever, with convulsions. She died in Nov. 1752, and on dissecting her body, the follow- ing appearances were observed : 1. The muscles in general were of a very soft and pale consistence; the vastus externus, snrtorius, quadriceceps, bips, and external_ parts of the gracilis, were much shorter than in their natural state, and more firm and tense; while those on the opposite side were much elongated, thin, and very tender; in short, the whole muscular system had suffered more or less, according to the action of the muscles in her lifetime. 2. The bones had entirely disappeared, whilst the periosteum was thickened but otherwise unchanged, so as to present the form of a cylinder. 3. The heart and principal blood-vessels, both veins .and arteries, contained large black masses, of a viscid consistence, and very unlike the clots usually found in dead bodies. A case of softness of the bones is related by Mr. Gooch, but considerably different from the above, as it was attended with a remarkable fra- gility of them before they became soft. It like- wise began with pains through the whole body, attended with feverish symptoms; but, after some weeks, these pains were confined chiefly to the logs and thighs, and they were not increased by pressure. This fragility of the bones does not appear to have bemi the case with Madame Supiot. In the month of .Tune, 17.19, Mr. GoocU's patient broke iier leg in walking from her bed to a ciiair, and heard tlie bone snap. No callus was formed, though the fracture was instantly reduced, and treated by one of the best snri;eon3 in her part of the country: but, instead of this, the bones began to grow flexible, and, in a few imniths were so from the knee to the ankle. The disease still continued to iMcrea>,e, so that, in a short time, the other leg and thigh were affected in the same manner, after which both leus ami thighs became ajdeinatous, liable to excoriations, and discharged a thin yellow ichor. Scorlmtic symptcuns began to appear in the winter after the log was broken,