999 VISION. ject depends upon the muscuLir power which is required to niiiiiitain a distinct view of the object in motion. The sensation of the movement of our muscles gives rise to the idea of motion. To form an idea of the r;»te at which other objects move, we must either be at rest, or we must know our own rate of motion. Perception of Colours, and its Atiomalies.— Colours, to be recognised as sucli, must occupy a certain amount of surface, and be illuminated by a certain quantity of liyht. These conditions vary with different colours ; e.g., a red square figure of a certain size, and on a white greund, if badly illuminated, or verj- small, may still be recognised as regards its square shape, but no longer as regards its colour, which appears black. A blue square figure appears black at a shorter distance from the' eyes than a red one. The power of distinguishing colours is greatest in the region of the yellow spot, and decreases to- wards the periphery of the retina, though not with equal rapidity in all directions. A square figure of any colour painted on a white background, when carried slowly from opposite the yellow spot to op- posite the more peripheral parts of the retina, gradually becomes indistinct, and finally black. It at first appears smaller, and becomes at last ill- defined. The colour of the figure becomes indis- tinct sooner than its shape. A yellow, green, blue, or red square on a black background gradually becomes white. The larger the coloured surface, the further from the yellow spot can its colour be recognised. No exact relation exists, however, betwem the rapidity with which the power of recognising a colour de- creases, and the size of the coloured surface. The power of recognising colour is limited by the time during which it is exposed to view, and this varies for different colours. Any colour when looked at for a certain time, gradually fades. We distinguish, as regards an'imalies in the per- ception of colours, between those cases in which, in the course of a gradually increasing amblyopia, the perception of tints, and finally that of pure colours, is lost; and those in which vision, as regards acute- ness, is not at all, or but slightly impaired. To the latter group the term Daltonism, or colour blindness, is applied. There may be complete loss of percep- tion of colours, or only loss of perception of some colours. Complete colour blindness—achroma- topsia—in which condition only black and white can be recognised, is rare. Generally the defect is confined to a few colours, while varieties in the intensity of those colours which can be recognised are often more rapidly perceived than by a healthy eye. Red or yellow are distinguished with diffi- culty, or not at all, from grey, blue, and other colours. Frequently red and orange cannot be re- cognised, rarely green. Some eyes can only dis- tinguish tints of yellow or blue j few can distin- guish yellow. In tlie slight degrees much light is required to recognise the colour for which the sensibility is diminished. Daltonism is congenital, and is ob- served in children from parents of blood relation- ship ; it is frequently hereditary ; it is incurable, and continues for life. Chromato-dysopia means the mistaking of colours which in the solar spectrum are very dis- tant from each other. More frequently colours ■which are related to each other, or shades of the same colour, pnrticularly violet and lilac, are mis- taken. Coloured vision (Chromopsia, or Clirupsia).—• Persons suffering from this affection complain that all objects appear of one colour—yellow, green, or red. Coloured vision may be intermittent, or •hange from one colour to another. It occurs in the course of cerebral diseases, after undue exer- tion of the e3'e8, and after operations for cataract. To persons who have taken a large dose of san- tonin, grey objects appear greenish-yellow. Pure white santonin, if exposed to light as in the media of the eye, turns yellow. In some cases benefit has been derived from pre- scribing spectacles with tinted glasses of the colour complementarj' to the one under which objects ap- pear to the patient. Cases of coloured vision have occurred in which, in a word, or in a series of fiiiures, different letters or figures appeared of different colours, Fkoiopsia (Spintkerismiis, Phosplienes^flanhes of light).—Fhotopsia is observed in blind as well as in seeing persons. " Fiery wheels," " halls," " stars of yellow, green, and red colours," " flashes of lightning," " rain of fiery sparks," " a mass of fire floating in the eye," " an appearance as if the eye were lighted up by moonlight," and similar pho- topsiae are observed during sudden movements of the eyes, after blows on the eyes, after undue exer- tion, especially in bright light; during inflamma- tory changes, affecting the relations of the rods and bulbs to the adjoining parts, during extra-ocular changes causing hyperasmia of the optic nerve- fibres, after poisoning by various gases, by alcohol, &c. To test the power of the retina for perception of light, we use artificial light. A record of the de- gree of this power becomes necessary if the patient has onlj' perception of shadows, or can merely dis- tinguish light from dark, as in advanced cataract, or in amblyopia. The patient being placed as for ophthalmoscopic examination, we throw the light of the ophthal- moscope upon the different parts of the sclerotic, iris, and pupil, and var}' the quantity of reflected light by decreasing the intensity of the flame, or by holding the instrument further from the eye. The experience obtained from the comparison of different eyes, with or without cataract, but having healthy retinae, examined in this way teaches us the quantity of light which should be perceived bv a healthy retina. If no light at all can be per- ceived, e.g., when thrown from above upon the upper half of the sclerotic, se that it should reach the lower half of the retina, while the direction from whence it comes is readily recognised when it is thrown on other parts of the sclerotic, we may rest satisfied that the lower half of the retina does not perceive light. Duration (persistence) of retinal impressions.— Many of us nmst have observed that after looking for a short time at the red disc of the setting sun, the disc often remains visible for a few minutes, though the eyelids be closed; the retinal impression having remained persistent l)eyond the usual time. One-eighth of a second is the average time during which a retinal impression at the yellow spot persists before another one can take its place. The time of persistence can by practice (by looking at a clear line on a dark back-ground for a certain time), be increased to half n minute.