TETANUS, was tried in Spain, and found to produce only momentary relief. {Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. -157.) Dr. Hillary, who practised a long while in the warm climate of America, where tetanus is very common, disapproves of this method of treatment. He observes that, although the use of the warm batli may appear to be very rational, and promise to be useful, he always found it much less serviceable than emollient and anti- spasmodic fomentations ; and he also mentions, that he had sometimes seen patients die the very moment when they came out of the bath, not- withstanding they had not been in it more than twenty minutes, the temperature of the water being likewise not higher than 29 or 30 of Reau- mur's thermometer. (See Hillary on the Air and Diseases of Barbadoes.) De Haenalso relates a similar fact of a patient dying the instant he was taken out of the warm bath. Hippocrates was an advocate for the application of cold water. The advantages of the cold bath were first particularly explained by Dr. Cochrane, in ih^ Edinh. 3Iedical Commentaries; and the plan subsequently received the praises of Dr. Wright, Dr. Currie of Liverpool, and others. Of all the remedies which have been employed in cases of tetanus, the cold bath is represented by some authors as that which has been attended with the greatest success. Dr. Wright published, in the Med. Ohs. and Inq. vol. vi. a paper, containing a narrative of the first trials of this method, which were all successful. The plan is said to be preferred throughout the West Indies. It consists in plung- ing the patient in cold water, and in that of the sea, when at hand, in preference to any other, or else in throwing from a certain height several pails of cold water over his body. After this has been done, he is to be very carefully dried with a towel, and put to bed, where he should only be lightly covered with clothes, and take tvventy or thirty drops of laudanum. The symptoms usually seem to give way, in a certain degree, but the relief which the patient experiences is not of long duration, and it is necessary to repeat the same measures at the end of three or four hours. They are to be repeated in this manner until the intervals of freedom from the attacks of the disorder increase in length. This desirable event, it is said, generallv soon follows, and ends in a perfect cure. Wine and bark were sometimes conjoined with the fore- going means, and seemed to co-operate in the pro- duction of the good effects. Dr. Wright concludes the account with the following remark, sent to him with a case, by Mr. Drunmiond, of Jamaica :—" I am of opinion, that opiates and the cold bath will answer every intention in tetanus and such like diseases ; for whilst the opium diminishes the irritabilitj', and gives a truce from the violent symptoms, the cold bath produces that wonderful tonic effect, so observable in this and some other cases. I'erhaps the bark, joined with these, would render the cure more certain. May wo not then have failed in many cases, by using" opiates alone in large doses, or, what probably is worse with the warm bath instead of the cold bath ? ' And have we not reason to suspect, that the increased doses of opium, which seemed requisite when the warm bath was used, may have proved pernicious?" (Vol. vi. p. lOI.) Our army surgeons, however, who wore in Spain, found the cold batii worse than uselci 719 L'83. {Med. Cldr, Trans, vol. vi. p. 254.) Dr. Parry's testimony is almost as condenmatory of it. Mr. Morgan relates an instance that occurred in St. Thomas's Hospital, in which a tetanic patient was plunged into a cold bath at his own request; all the symptoms disappeared in a moment, and he was almost immediately taken out of the bath; but he was taken out lifeless." {Lectures on Tetanus, &c.) Dr. EUiotson also relates a case, in which, after a pail or two of water had been dashed upon the body, the patient fell down dead, as if shot. Here I beg to remark particularly, that the plan seems to present no hope of benefit in cases of tetanus from wounds, however strong the evidence may be of its utility in other examples of the dis- ease. This was the opinion of Hippocrates, and, in modern times, that of Dr. Cullen, Callisen, &c. "I in mors io subita iterata totius corporis in aquarn frigidam in tetano a causa interna mire prodest, in tetano a causa externa minorem effectura pra:- stat." (St/stema Chirargice HodierncB, pars i. pp. 169, 170, edit. 1790.) On the subject of cold effusion and bathing, there are on record two cases which are curious. One is related by Baron Lar- rey. It was an instance of tetanus from a gunshot wound. The cold bath was used. The two first trials gave the patient extreme pain, and no amendment followed. The sight of the bath the next time filled him with an invincible dread of the water, into which he refused to be put. He was covered, however, with a blanket, and im- mersed. The tetanic stiffness was immediately increased, and dreadful convulsions excited. It became necessary to remove him directly from the bath, and put him to bed. Deglutition was from this moment utterly impeded, and the contraction of the muscles carried to the most violent degree. A turnour, about as large as an egg, suddenly made its appearance near the linea alba, below the navel. After death this was found to be caused by a rupture of one of the recti muscles, and a consequent extravasation of blood. (See Mhn de Chir. Mil. t. iii. pp. 287—209.) Tin's case is decidedly in support of the truth of the sentiment expressed on this subject by Hippocrates, Cullen, and Callisen. The next is not so : it is mentioned by Sir James McGrigor, that, in the march of the Guards through Gallicia, one of them was attacked \v\l\\ tetanus, in consequence of a slight wound of the finger. As it was impossible to think of leav- ing the man in the wretched village where he was taken ill, he was carried on a bullock car, in the rear of the battalion. Dm'ing the first part of the day he was drenched with rain, the thermometer standing at 52°; but, after ascending one of the highest mountains in Gallicia, the patient was in a cold of 30°; to which he was exposed from six in the morning till ten at night, when he was found half starved to death, but free from every sym- ptom of tetanus. (See Mid. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 450.) Mr. Abernethy, in his lectures, expresses his conviction, that in tetanus, and all nervous ailec- tions, it is a most material point to operate on the brain, through the medium of the digestive organs, and that the production of secretions from the ali-- nientary canal has a more beneficial effect than any other meims. lie particularly commends tlia exhibition of calomel and jalap, mixed with trea- cle, as answering better than salts. Where much didiculty occurs in making the patient swallow