INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. Colour externally, and brown within. A third i of a deep brown or green colour. (See lire's Did. q/'C/iemintn/, art. Oall-sio/ies.) The smaller intes tiual concretions, examined by Dr. T. Thomson destitute of coatiny, resembled bad yellow ochre the larger were encrusted witli an earthy matter, of a coftee colour, and purple, or sometimes white. (See jSIoni-o on the Human Gullet, S^c.; and Meil. C/iir. Journ. vol. iv. p. 188.) Third criterion. The presence or absence of a nucleus, will enable one to judge whether a cal cuius be gastric or hepatic. A biliary concretion has no nucleus, properly so called ; that is to say, it has no foreign body in its centre. When a transverse section is made of «uch a calculus, one finds either a cavity in its middle, or else nothing by which this part of its substance can be distin- guished from the rest; or, if a nucleus, different from the other part of the concretion, be apparent there, it consists merely of bile, either grumous, differently coloured, or more or less fluid than the rest of the calculus, but which is nevertheless in- variably bile. On the contrary, every gastric con- cretion has, as it were, an e.xtraneous nucleus, as Fourcroy and Vauquelin have explained in their essay upon the intestinal calculi met with in ani- mals. Ruysch, in the Phil. Trans, gives an ac- count of some alvine concretions, which were formed round grains of seed. Birch records an example of a crystallised calculus, formed round a leaden bullet. Haller mot with a calculus, in the centre of which was an iron nail. Concretions, formed upon fruit-stones, are recorded by Clarke, White, and Hey, and also in the Edin. MeJ. Essays. Instances in which the nucleus was a small portion of bone, are related in the latter work, and also by Hooke and Coe. Homberg and others describe alvine concretions, formed round indurated excrementitious matter: and many similar cases are specified by Vallisnieri, Van Swieten, and others. In the hepatico-gastric cal- culus, the biliary concretions serve as a nucleus for the gastric. According to Dr. T. Thomson, the nucleus is commonly a cherry-stone, a small piece of bone, or a biliary calculus. (See Med. Chir. Journ. vol. iv. p. 188; Cruveilhier, Anut. Pathol. livr. xxvi.) In the work last referred to, the nu- clei were cherry-stones, retained in the colon by an obstruction of it from cancerous disease. A fourth criterion is deduced from a certain unctuosity, which belongs to biliary calculi, but not to those of the gastric class. This character is more palpable when the calculus has been re- cently voided, or when it is handled with warm lingers. The unctuosity is still more evident wiien the concretion is cut or sawn, as then the knife, saw, or fingers, become smeared with saponaceous particles which adhere to them. In order to de- note an hepatic calculus, however, the unctun.= ity must pervade its whole substance, and not merely appear towards its outside ; for a gastric, earthy, saline concretion, may by accident become coated, as it passes through the bowels, with a stratum ol bile, or saponaceous matter. When the unctuosity IS deficient exteiniilly, or in the outer lamina; of a calculus, but is found in its interior, it is a clear indication of the hepatico-gastric formation of the concretion. Fifth criterion. The specific gravity of a calcu- lu.s, the property which it has of floating or sink- ing in water, has been long considered as a test of 85 its species. The hepatic calculus is generally specifically lighter ilian water, as most oily sub- stances are: on the contrary, gastric calculi are specifically heavier than water, like all earthy saline matter, and of course sink in that fluid. This criterion was often employed by Reverherst' Femelius, and others, for distinguishing various concretions. But it is by no means regular, as many biliary calculi swim only a little while and then sink. The specific gravity of that analysed by Dr. Ure of Glasgow, was 1-0135. (See Med. Chir. Jotcrn. vol. iv. p. 179.) As Rubini observes, this test will not answer for hepatico-gastric cal- culi, which are subject to great anomalies. {Peii- sieri, c^c. p. 22.) Nevertheless, the most correct modern examiriations prove, that gastric concre- tions have a specific gravity, varying from 1-37G to 1-540 {Dr. T. Thomson, in Monro's Mori). Anat. 4-0.); and, consequently, their general cha- racter is to be heavier than biliary calculi. A sixth criterion is that proposed by Vicq d'Azyr in the Mem. de VAcad. Roijale de Mid. and deduced from the figure of the crystallisation. According to this writer, intestinal concretions crystallise in concentric lamina;, shaped like a cock's womb, while the crystallisations of biliary calculi are radiated and needle-shaped. Although this criterion is ingeniously founded upon the known laws by which every crystallised substance assumes a peculiar and determinate shape, yet it may be generally observed with respect to the mark of distinction here proposed, that the con- cretions of which we are now speaking are usually too compound, and too much disturbed in their crystallisation, to exhibit a regularity, for which simplicity and quietude are indispensable. Hence, many of these concretions do not present the slightest vestige of crystallisation, while others scai'cely show a trace of it, in the midst of a large misshapen mass. The white-coloured hepatic c<S- culus, when broken, is said to present crystallin& plates, or stria;, brilliant and white like mica. The round, or polygonal one, which is often of a grey colour externally, and brown within, is de- scribed as consisting of concentric lavers of in- spissated bile, usually with a nucleus of the white crystalline matter in the centre. Lastly, the hepatic calculi, of a deep brown, or green colour, when broken, are said to exhibit a number of crystals of the substance resembling spermaceti mixed with the inspissated bile. (See Ure's Diet. art. Gallstones.) With respect to the special shape, assigned by Vicq d'Azyr to the two classes of alvine concretions, it maybe observed, that his specimens were taken from animals, and that consequently, the inferences made from them are not applicable to substances of an analagous na- ture discharged from the human body ; because .■IS the bile varies in dilferent animals, so must the formative principles of the calcuhnis crystallisa- tions. It is furtlier remarked by Rubini, that the substance termed adipueire, which is the basis of biliary concretions, was not found by I'ouUeticr in hepatic calculi taken from horned cattle. A seventh criterion is founded upon the in- flammability of an alvine calculus. A biliary con- cretion, being commonly made up altogether of unctuous matter, liquefies when subjected to heat smokes, emits a flame, and burns. When this ex|ierinient is made in close vesscds, the pro- ducts arc hydrogen, carbonic acid gas, oil, and