G42 SUPPURATION. nature, is living material, and capaWe of increase and multiplication as such. "Pus corpuscles," says Dr. Beale, " should be obtained from a mu- cous or other surface at the time that they are growing and multiplying. Pus which is usually examined consists of dead, not of living corpuscles. These are spherical as represented in books, and many have a sharp, well-defined outline, owing to coagulation having taken place upon their surface. Thus the so-called cell-membrane or cell wall of the corpuscle has resulted." Pus (or rather Us pus —r . germinal matter) shows its living properties in three ways: by movement, by multiplication, and by those powers of propagation which it exhibits when acting as contagium. The most convenient form of pus for exhibiting its movements and mul tiplication, is said by Dr. Beale to be that from the mucous membrane of the bladder when chronically inflamed. " So far from the corpuscles being sphe rical, as usually figured and described, in many specimens not a single coi-puscle of this form is to be detected. Every cerpuscle exhibits little ' buds, ' offsets,' or protrusii)ns at every part of its circum- ference ; and attentive observation, even under moderate magnifying powers, will convince the observer that the corpuscles are slowly undergoing alterations in form." The similarity of the be- haviour of the germinal matter of pus to that of the amoeba is pointed out. " One of the smallest par- ticles detached from a pus corpuscle is capable of absorbing nutrient material, and growing into a corpuscle, having all the properties and powers of that from which it was derived." {Ibid. p. 6-t.) Under inflammation the living germinal matter of an epithelial cell may absorb the surrounding substance, and may increase in size at the expense of the formed material it has already produced. Thus the germinal matter in one epithelial cell may row and separate into many pus cells. must return to this point when treating of the qualities of pus ; meanwhile, we may complete this section with a short account of suppuration within blood-vessels, in clots, &c. This may be of three kinds: 1, an accumulation of white cor- puscles of the blood ; or, 2, a fluid formed by the softening down of previously existing clots ; or 3, genuine pus. The while corpuscles of the blood exist in uncertain quantity, and of unknown use. They were early recognised by observers of the modern microscopic school, and thought to be pus, and many interesting but false conclusions were founded on these observations. For in- stance, Herbert Mayo, in 1839, pricked the skm in the vicinity of an ulcer of the leg, and having found white globules, which were conceived to be pus, announced the discovery of pus in the blood of the skin adjoining ulcers. In like manner the discovery by Galliou of similar bodies in the blood of patients who had died of puerperal fever and pyaemia, was thought to give a ready ex planation of' the pathology of' those disorders (.See R. Ferguson on Puerperal Fever. Lond 1839.) But it became known at length that they are a fluctuating constituent in all blood, and that an excess is connected with disorder of those duct- less glands so called, the spleen, thymus, thyroid, and lymphatic glands, whose function is supposed to be the elaboration of the blood. Nevertheless, when the existence of that remarkable disease LciicocylJuBmia was discovered by Drs. Craigie and Hughes Ben- nett, of Edinburgh, in 1841-45, they mistook it for pyaemia, and described it as such: it was Vir- chow who, in 1846, observed the disease inde- pendently, and gave it its true interpretation. We cannot enter into details here, except to state that Leucocythffimia is a kind of cachexia, at- tended with enlargement of the above-mentioned blood-making glands; that the blood drawn from a prick shows a large proportion of white globules; that if blood be taken in quantity and whipped to free it from fibrine, the red corpuscles sink, whilst the white float in the serum, which they render milky —a milkinesa not removed by ether, as it would be if it were fat globules—and that the clot of blood, whether taken during life or found in the veins after death, contains large loose soft yellow coagula, consisting almost entirely of colourless corpusdes. (See Gulliver, Lectures on Blood, Chyle, Lymph, (fc. Medical Times and Gazette, 1863, vol. ii.; Hughes Bennett, Lectures on Molecular Fatlialogy, Lancet, 1863 ; Virchoiv, Cellular Pathology, by Chance, ^c. ; and a very useful and fair rdsumd in Aitken's Science and Practice of Medicine, 4th ed. vol. ii. p. 67.) A fluid formed by the physical and chemical disintegration of clots may have most of the out- ward properties of pus, without the presence of the characteristic globules. Such a fluid may be pro- duced by allowing fibrine to putrefy, and may be got from ulcerating, softening and decaying tissues, and from blood clots in veins in cases of pya;mic and blond infection. It presents under the mi- croscope, oil globules, granules, amorphous par- ticles, or in some cases imperfect cells something like those of pus, but without nuclei. (See Henry Lee, Pathological atid Surgical Observations, Lond. 1854, p. 91 et seq.) True pus is, however, often found in veins, sometimes in the open orifice of veins in a wound, or on the inner surface of the womb, sometimes in other parts of the venous and portal systems, which may have been implicated, contiyuity with an ulcer, abscess, or other suppurative disease. Thus, in a case of chronic ulcer of stomach, reported by Dr. Bristowe {Pathological Transactions, vol. ix. p. 275), suppurative inflammation of the entire thick- ness of the walls of the viscus was accompanied by fibrinous clots containing distinct pus, in many ot the branches of the portal vein. This pus presented the ordinary reaction on the addition of acetic acid. " In the present state of our knowledge, says Dr. Dickinson (Pathol. Trans.yol xvii. p. /8), we must confess to some uncertainty whether pus may be pro- duced by the breaking down of fibrinous coagulum. But all evidence is tending to the fact, that though not every co.ngulum can soften into pus, yet that true pus mav be produced by growth within some coagula. It has already been stated, in accordance with the doctrines ably laid down by Mr. Henry Lee, that healthy blood, by coagulating in pus and other foreign substances, has the power of preserv- ing itself from admixture, and the whole system from the peril of contamination. But the coagiUa, the safeguards of the venous system, ™«y be d.s^ placed by mechanical means, and floated mto the general venous current, and then "''^"X likely to follow : for instance, the symptoms of cm diac and pulmonary embolism-with sudden death if the disjlaced clots be suniceut to fil tl e l^^t right cavities or pulmonary vein; "[^'"J^^J^'^^ if\hey block these P^'^'^g^^ ^^rjnf fibrine • serve as nidus for the deposit of layers of fibrine,