RECTUM, DISEASES OF. Iiittcr dill, will in any way afiL-ct the claim of the former to the merit "of first suggesting a valuable iiniirovement. They erroneously observe, that lley's practice only related to prolapsus ani, as a consequence of piles ; whereas that ot Dupuytren is particularly adapted to examples, in which there aie no piles. (See Cliniijiie Cliir. t. i. p. 166.) [Dupuytren's method is imperfect in its opera- tion, inasmuch as it only fulfils one of the indica- tions required, namely, the contraction of the relaxed anal aperture itself; but has no influence on the dilated and relaxed mucous and muscular coats of the bowel within. To remedy the latter condition, the removal of portions of the raucous membrane will be found the most etfectual prac- tice. This should be done by ligature, and not by excision, the latter proceeding being attended, as in the case of hajmorrhoids, with the risk of serious bleeding. A portion of the mucous mem- brane, about an inch in circumference, just above the sphincter, should be raised with the vulsellum forceps, and strangulated by a ligature. It will be found convenient to transfix with a needle the base of the portion of mucous membrane which it is intended to ligature, and to tie it in two halves. Two, three, or four pieces of membrane, according to the size of the prolapsus, may be thus treated. The ligature of the mucous membrane should be accompanied by the excision of portions of the integument surrounding the anus, in a direction radiating from that aperture, as recommended by Hey and Dupuytren. This will often be followed by a complete and permanent cure. In cases where the disease is of long standing, however, even this will sometimes prove insufficient, or if sufficient for a time, the prolapsus will gradually be reproduced. In the case of a female, aged 27, with a very large prolapsus, which had existed from infancy, the writer has operated on four suc- ■ cessive occasions in the way above described, at intervals of eight or- nine months. The result, after each operation, was a diminution in the size of the prolapsus, and an alleviation of the symp- toms, but the upper part of the rectum still con- tinued to descend, although the lower part, which had been treated by the ligature, was sufficiently contracted and consolidated with the surrounding parts to retain its proper position. Another mode of treating aggravated cases of prolnpsus, is to paint the whole prolapsed portion lightly over with strong nitric acid. This will in many cases produce sufficient contraction of the relaxed coats of the bowel to cure the disease. It is important, however, not to use the acid too freely, or deep ulceration may take place, and be followed by deep ulceration and permanent stric- ture; while, on the other hand, if enough has not been accomplished at the first attempt, the acid can easily be applied a second, or, if necessary, a third time. Tlie pain after this operation is not nsually very severe, a superficial ulceration is induced, but this rapidly heals. The recum- bent position should l)e enjoined until the heal- ing is completed; the bowels should be kept con- fined for three or four days, and then acted upon by a mild aperient such as castor oil. Straining to evacuate the bowels should be carefully avoided for some time, and the motions should be passed while the patient is in the horizontal position. The writer has adopted this method in many cases; in all of them great advantage has been obtained. in some the disease appeared to be completely cured; in none were any bad consequences, such as protracted ulceration or stricture, observed. Perhaps a still better method is to apply the actual cautery to the prolapsed bowel. It shciuld be applied in the longitudinal direction, in two, three, or four lines, as the case may seem to re- quire. The cauterised surfaces should be each about half-an-inch broad, and they should be at equal distances from each other. When cicatrisa- tion takes place, sufficient contraction will probably be induced both in the longitudinal and transverse directions to prevent a recurrence of tlie prolapsus. Circular contraction or stricture is not likely to re- sult, if the cautery is applied in longitudinal lines, with a sufficient space of mucuous membrane in- tervening between them. Operative proceedings for the cms of prolapsus are seldom required in children. In them due at- tention to the action of the bowels, the application of astringent lotions and injections, and the re- moval of any exciting cause, such as worms, poly- pus of the rectum, or vesical calculus will, in most cases, be found sufficient. The evacuation of the bowels into a flat vessel, while the child lies on its back, is also a very important ingredient in the treatment. Tonics, especially the vinum ferri, in combination with cod liver oil, are often of the greatest services in such cases.] Rectum, Polypus op. [Growths of a polypoid or pedunculated form are occasionally met with in the rectum. They are com- monly described as of two kinds, the vascular and the fibrous, the former being more common in chil- dren, the latter in adults. It was stated by Sir A. Cooper, and his opinion has been very generally adopted, that the affection is more frequent in children. It is doubtful, however, whether this is really the case; on the contrary, in the expe- rience of the writer, out of about forty cases which have come under his observation, more than three- fourths have been in adults. The polypi met with in children differ some- what from those seen in adults. They are softer and more vascular, with a greater tendencj' to bleed; they are usually attached by a very slender pedicle, -which readily gives way. Those which I have seen have been of about the size of a rasp- berry, and of very much the same appearance. The polypoid growths seen in the adults are usually smaller than those met with in children—seldom larger than a nut, the majority being of about the size of a horse-bean. They are firmer in tex- ture, but not sufficiently so to warrant the distinc- tion which has been made between them by calling one the " fibrous " and the other the " vas- cular " polypus. Indeed they appear to be es- sentially similar in structure, both being composed of fibrous and fibro-nudeated texture continuous with the submucous areolar tissue, with an ad- mixture of bloodvessels in varitible proportion, and a covering of mucous membrane. Their point of attachment is usually from an inch to an inch and a-half within the anus. The symptoms produced by polypi in the rectum are not tisually severe. They consist of irritation and uneasiness in the part rather than actual pain, with frequent desire to evacuate and occasional loss of blood. The loss of blood is an especial characteristic of the disease in children;