NECROSIS. 334 [Two circumstances may be specified as having an important influence upon the process of regenera- tion, viz. tlie structural peculiarities of the bone effected, and the manner in which the necrosis has oc- curred. The cases of necrosis most favourable to the reproduction of bone, are those in which it rapidly and completely perishes, witiiout the occurrence of anything calculated to interfere with the inflamma- tory action in the periosteum and adjacent soft parts, since a due amount of inflammation in these tissues constitutes the first step in the process of regeneration. " When the bone has perished very slowly, or when its death has been preceded, or is accompanied by morbid changes in its tissue, or in the surrounding soft parts, the reproductive process will probably fail." {Stanley, op. cit. p. 113.) Again, the structure of the bone, whether it be light and cancellated, or solid and compact, determines very materially the amount of reparative action.] For instance, a portion of the cranium dies, and exfoliates, but is rarely or never regenerated. This may be, according to Mr. Stanley, because the pericranium perishes, and leaves no cellular tissue as a matrix for the reproductive vessels. But, there are other instances, where no repair takes place, and in which such an explanation cannot be admitted. Why is the upper jaw never reproduced, while, in the lower, the process constantly succeeds? [And why are the extremities of the long bones rarely attacked by necrosis, and, when so, never re- produced ; whilst their shafts arefrec[uently the sub- jects of this disease, and almost as constantly re- newed? It will be observed that it is in the flat, short, and irregular bones, whose structure is mostly can- cellous—and with these must be included the epiphysial ends of the long bones—that this com- parative fi-eedora from necrosis exists, and in which, when it does occur, the process of regeneration fails. The greater vascularity of the cancellated tissue will account for its partial exemption from this disease, as also for the slow and gradual pro- gress of necrosis in a bone of this varietj'. It therefore happens, Aat the inflammatory action in the periosteum—the principal agent in the reproduc- tion of bone—is not sufficiently acute to promote the free exudation of lymph, and the quantity effused from this membrane is very limited ; the structures again, which surround the short and flat bones, are, with few exceptions, entirely of a fibrous character, and these tissues, being highly un- vascular, are incapable of contributing much to the regenerative process in which ordinarily the soft parts take so large part. These circumstances, together with others of minor importance, are un- favourable to the formation of bone, and osseous tissue is very sparingly developed in these cases. The flat bones most frequently attacked by necrosis, are those of the cranium and the inferior maxilla, but the phenomena presented are very different in each. The course of the disease in the lower jaw is precisely similar to that observed in the shaft of a long bone. Its destruc tion is generally rapid, whilst being invested by periosteum, and surrounded by muscles, favours its complete restoration. In the cranial bones, on the contrary, necrosis proceeds very slowl}', and tliere is but little attempt to renew the lost bone : the dura mater and tlio pericranium, which here "^substitute the periosteum, are insuflicient for the purpose, whilst the thin covering of soft parts can aid but little in the reproductive process. The length of time required for the complete de- struction of a cranial bone, no doubt depends greatly upon the presence of the diploe; tliis structure, being extremely vascular, long resists the extension of the morbid action.] In order that a new bone may form, Weidmann thought that the periosteum and other membranes, concerned in the nutrition of the original bone, must be spared from destruction. In fact, he says that, in cases where the shaft of a long bone has suffered necrosis, the bone is never reproduced, f the periosteum has been destroyed by inflam mation, or other causes. [When the innermost layers of a long bone perish, while those which compose the outer walls are preserved, the latter become consolidated and thickened by the deposit of osseous matter between their layers, and upon their surface, so as to re- semble a new bone.] Several round apertures are observable upon the surface, which serve for the transmission of vessels, and are larger than those which perform this office in the natural state. Large openings, or fistula, are likewise formed, which, as in a new bone, lead to the medullary canal, and afford an outlet for the matter. Here it would be erroneous to conclude, that an entirely new bone has been pro- duced ; and a very little attention will discover; that all is limited to some changes in the external part of the bone, which the necrosis has not affected. [When, therefore, the internal lamellte of a long bone are destroyed by a necrosis, which does not extend to the external layers, the osseous case, or involucnim, as it is termed, enclosing them is not altogether a production of new bone,] If, however, we find a cylinder of dead bone in- cbided in a sort of osseous shell, and its surface smooth, like that of a bone in the natural state, we may be certain that it has been detiiched directly from the periosteum, and that its bony investment is a new production. On the contrarj'y if the surface of the dead bone be rough, we may infer, that the separation has taken place between the innermost layers of the bone, and those which are superficial, the latter composing now the osseous shell, in which the sequestrum is included. {Weid- mann de Necrosi Ossiuni, p. 31.) This last theoiy, concerning the production of the involucrum in necroses of long cylindrical bones, is adopted by Richerand as the true one, not only in the instances specified by Weidmann, but, in every other example, where the old bone forms a seques- trum, and is surrounded by an osseous case, which has the appearance of being a new production, and which was supposed by Troja, David, &c. to be formed by the vessels of tiie periosteum. (See Nosogyapliie Chir. t. iii. p. 158. 101. edit. 4.) The short or cuijoid bones are very imperfectly reproduced; in some of them no attempt at repair has been seen after necrosis. {Duvcrney, Maladies des Os. p. 450.) Weidmann never witnessed a reproduction ol the spoMuy substance, such as it was before its destruction, round the medulla. He always found the newly formed bone dense and compact, at least, for some time after its formation. It is now admitted that in process of time, the inner surface of the new bone becomes cellu-^ lar and is lined with a membrane containing mcduUii. 1'hc regeneration of the medulla waBi