992 VESICO VAGINAL FISTULA. Physicians, vol. ii. Duncan, On Diffuse Inflamms- tion of the Cellular Membrane, in lidin. Meil. Cliir. Trans, vol. i. Medical Communications, vol. ii. Jiicherand, Nosoe;r. Chir. t. ii. p. 41fi, edit. 4. J. Hodgson, On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, 8vo. Lond. 1815. B. Travers, in Surfficnl Kssays, part i. 8vo. Lond. 1818. Chapman, in i^hiladelphia .lourn. Feb. 182+. Fretcaii, Sur I'Eniploi des Emissions sanguines, etc. Svo. I?aris, 1816. [VESICO-UTERINE FISTULA. This con- dition will be treated of in the article on Vesico- Vaifinal Fistula.] [VESICO-VAGINAL FISTULA. Under this head will be noticed several varieties of urin- ary fistula in the female. Abnormal communica- tions are met with between the urethra and vagina, uretliro-vayinal fistulcB; between the bladder and vagina, vesica-vagina I fistitlcB, whicli is the most common form ; there are also vesicoutero- vaginal fistula, which involve the upper part of the vagina and the lower pnrt of the anterior lip of the cervix uteri, and are tolerably frequent ; and vcsico-tUerine JistulcB, verj' rare, in which there is a communication between the base of the bladder and some part of the canal of the cervix uteri. These several conditions are almost always the result of injury inflicted on the parts during parturi- tion ; either by laceration from the incautious use of instruments or otherwise ; or by slmighing from long-continued pressure in cases of tedious labour. Exceptionally they have been known to result from the pressure of a large vesical calculus, or from abscess in the vesico-vaginal septum, or venereal ulceration perforating that part ; but fistulse from abscess, or from non-malignant forms of ulceration, are much more common between the vagina and rectum than between the vagina and bladder. Cancerous ulceration is another occasional cause, but cases of this class are obviously beyond the reach of curative surgical measures. The condition of a female suffering from urinary fistula is most distressing. The urine flows away as fast as it is secreted ; or if, in certain positions, a portion of it can be retained, any movement or change of posture will cause it to escape. Her clothing by day and her bed l)y night are con- stantly saturated, and the labia and thighs often severelv excoriated. When the fistula is caused by laceration, the incontinence of urine is noticed immediately ; but if it is the result of sloughing, there may be no escape for several days, until the separation ol the slough takes place. It is only within the last twenty years that any effectual methods of dealing with this class of affections have been adopted. Previous to this, notwithstanding the persevering efforts of DielFen- bach, Jobert and others, the failure of all opera- tive procedure was so constant, that the bulk of the profession were content to regard vesico-vaginal fistulas as practically incurable. It is to the use of metallic sutures that the now very constant success of plastic operntions for the cure of these affections must be ascribed, and to Dr. Marion Sims belongs the credit of bringing prominently before the profession, not only this important element of success, but of bringing to bear an amount of perseverance and mechanical ingenuity upon the details of these difHcult opera- tions, of which it is impossible to speak too highly. Dr. Sims, however, was not the first to employ metallic sutures for the cure of vesico-vaginal lis- tiila. Mr. Gosset of London operated successfullj', in May 1834, with silver gilt wire, fastening the sutures by simply twisting their ends. His plan of operation, and his after treatment, was in all essential particulars the same as is now practised ; and the following remarks made by him are remarkable from their coincidence with the result of subsequent experience, as to the advantages of metallic sutures. "The advantages of the gilt- wire suture are these. It excites but little irrita- tion, and does not appear to induce ulceration with the same rapidity as siik, or any other material with which I am acquainted ; indeed it has scarcely any effect of the kind, except when the parts brought together are put much on the stretch ; you can therefore keep the edges of a wound together in close contact for an indefinite length of time, by which tlie chance of union is greatly increased." Mr. Gosset used the wire . suture for various operations, such as removal of tumours, &c., but did not recommend it for general employment on account of the greater difficulty of applying it. He says, " it is in minute and delicate operations, such as hare-lip, staphyloraphe, and for the closure of fistulous openings, where success mainly depends upon a speedy union of parts, that the advantages of the gilt suture ate most manifest." (See Lancet, Nov. 29, 1834, p. 345.) Mr. Gosset'.s very instructive case, however, appears not to have attracted much attention in this country, and abroad was probably altogether unknown. Dr. Marion Sims, after repeated failures during four years with sutures of other materials, obtained his first success by using silver wire in 1849, and full details of his mode of operation were first published in the American Journal of Medical Science for January 1852. In his early operations, when practising at Montgomery, Alabama, Dr. Sims used leaden cross-bars or clamps, on the principle of the quill suture. The cross-bars were perforated with holes through which the sutures, after having been in- serted through the opposite sides of the fistula, were passed, and their ends were fastened by means of split or perforated shot. Further ex- perience, however, at the women's hospital, New York, induced Dr. Sims to give up this and other complicated mechanical contrivances for fixing the sutures, and to trust to the wire alone, used as an interrupted suture, and fastened by simply twisting the ends, a method now adopted by the great majority of surgeons. Dr. Bozeman, who had witnessed Dr. Sims' early operations, find who succeeded him in Mont- gomery, used a leaden plate or button perforated with holes along its centre, the holes being placed about one-third of an inch apart. The ends ol the sutures were brought thro\igh the holes in the plate, and fastened by split or perforated shot. This was on the principle of the interrupted suture, with the addition of the button and shot, the button, when the sutures were fastened, being firmly pressed against the wound. Dr. Uozeman's plan was adopted in this countr by Mr. Baker Brown, who had already made trial of Dr. Sims' early method. Mr. Brown ob- tained signal success in his operations at St. Mary's Hospital, and afterwards at the London Surgical Home, and it was mainly through his writings and published cases, that the profession became aware of the ease with which most of