MAMMA, DISEASES OF. 276 and passed it inwards for nearly an inch and a half, in a slanting direction. On withdrawing the stilet, out came a drop of pus. I next enlarged the orifice with a narrow bistoury, and gave exit to about a couple of drachms of purulent matter. By suitable treatment, the abscess healed up, the intumescence subsided, and the patient left the , hospital cured, after the lapse of a few weeks. As a general rule in the instance of abscess situate behind the gland, care should be taken in pressing out the purulent matter that no air be allowed to enter, as is prone to happen through expansion of the mammary gland on the pressure being removed. If air finds admission, the pus becomes decomposed, and induces serious constitu- tional disturbance, as well as a persistence of the secretion of matter, thus rendering the case both more tedious and severe. Inflammation of the Mammary Gland. Mastitis. This is of frequent occurrence during lactation, find usually terminates in the formation of matter, varying in quantity and situation. _ The glandular abscesses form in "the adipose cavities, which are channeled in the thickness of the fibrous capsule of the glandular mass. M. Giraldes (Man. dela Soc. de Chir. t. ii. p 198) describes these as commencing in shut sacs and tortuous cavities which traverse the _ whole thickness of the gland. In the first case the inflara nation assails the cells in cul-de sac, the pus is pent up by the fibrous bands which connect the gland with the skin. The cells do not communicate with each other; thus, the opening of one cell does not allow of the discharge of pus contained in the contiguous cell. When the inflammation is seated in the depth of the parenchyma of the gland, the pus makes way round the inflamed tissues, and reaches before long the subcutaneous fatty layer ; it there forms a se cond collection, which communicates with the first by a canal more or less straight or winding. The pus is found mixed with a certain quantity of milk depending on the rupture of one or several of the lactiferous tubes. Women wjio have never been pregnant are liable to mammary abscesses depend ing upon derangement of the health, gastric, or uterine disorder; and even men now and then have abscesses of the breast.] When the breast inflames, the part enlarges, becomes hard and painful, as the inflammation assails each lobule in an isolated manner, and by the side of an inflamed lobule may be found a healthy one. The enlargement is proportionally irregular, and seems to consist of one or more hard tumours situate in the substance of the part. The pain often extends to the'axillary glands. The secretion of milk is "rndually lessened, and usually suppressed as the complaint gains ground. When the symptoms of inflammation continue to increase for four or five days, suppuration may be expected- unless the progress of the inflammation be slow and its degree moderate ; in which circumstances; resolution may often be obtained, even as late as a fortnight after the first attack. Acute inflamma- tion of the breast is generally attended with more or less sympathetic inflammatory fever. Sir Astley Cooper describes the inflammation as adhesive in the second, and the first stage, suppurative in ulcerative in the third. Swelling is followed by a blush of inflammation upon the surface of the breast, and very acute throbbing pain. " A par- ticular prominence and smoothness are observed at one part of the tumour, with a sense of fluctuation from the presence of matter. The constitution is also highly irritated, which is evinced by the oc- currence of shivering, succeeded by heat and pro- fuse perspiration. Over the most prominent part of the swelling, the cuticle separates, ulceration follows in the cutis, and the matter becomes dis- charged through the aperture thus produced." {Illustrations of Diseases of the Breast, p. 7.) Women are most liable to mammary abscesses within the first three months after parturition; but they are also much exposed to the disorder so long as they continue to suckle. The most common causes of mammary abscess, as enumerated by writers in general, are—repress- ing the secretion of milk at an early period, mental disturbance, fright, &c., exposure to cold, moving the arms too much while the breasts are large and distended, and external injuries. The causes are not always obvious. [M. Nelaton considers that, in a majority of cases, the real starting-point of suppurative inflammation of the mamma is an excoriation of the nipple, kept up by the efibrts of suction on the part of the infant, and unceasingly fretted by the contact of milk and saliva. Inflam- mation of the absorbents is set up ere long, and rapidly spreads to the depths of the organ. The course of the lymphatics accounts for this par- ticular circumstance. M. Sappey has, in fact, demonstrated that nearly all these vessels origi- nate in the areola, or in the nipple itself.] In Sir Astley Cooper's opinion, the principal Cm se of acute inflammation and suppuration of the breast, is " the rush of blood, which takes place each time the child is applied to the bosom, and which bv nurses is called the draught, and is the prepa- ratory step to the secretion of milk." He also adverts to the frequent exposure of the bosom in suckling, and the active exertions of the child in sucking, as promoting the origin of the complaint. The nurse, he says, often produces these abscesses immediately after the lying-in, by not putting the child soon enough to the breast, and by giving the mother strong drink. (See lUustratiotis of Diseases of the Breast, p. 8.) The matter is sometimes contained in one cyst, or cavity—sometimes in several, but the abscess generally breaks near the nipple. As all inflammations of the mamma are attended with considerable induration, they should be care- fully distinguished from other swellings of a more incurable kind. Glandular tumours of the mamma, which have existed a long while, often disappear after the occurrence of a milk abscess. Treatment of Mastitis. [In treating this afltec- tion it does not appear that much advantage is gained from even local abstraction of blood. Warm fomentation, saline purgatives to unload the bowels, antimonials to diminish the impulse of the heart, and promote cutaneous secretion, a spare diet, to abate the flow of blood to the part, and rest in tlie re- cumbent posture, are the principal means lor tlie purpose of procuring resolution in the early stage. It is also recommended to have the milk, when overabundant, tenderly sucked out at proper in- tcrvjils . • • X A speedy check may often be put to «" "^i" mastitis b/rubbing the affected o^^-yf^^'^' several times a day, with warm or! audanum or mild ammoniacal 'j" ^J^rts. tha't made in the direction ot tlie i.icmen