52 INFLAMMATION. crowded houses is almost as sure a sifjii of the presence of sewer vapour as are dianlinea and dysentery—both, by-the-bye, often attended with sore throat. There is a sore throat which aggra- vates the last stage of phthisis, and is caused by contact with the decomposing pus hawked up from the lungs, besides that which accompanies aphtha, and arises from hectic and absorption of miasm. There is a flabby (Edematous sore throat, with great pain and copious viscid mucus, affecting weakly persons after cold, and readily cured by wine, purgatives, and a swab with nitrate of silver. Many sore throats are attended with pellicular exudation, slight, partial, and easily de- tached ; but there is one in particular, caused by specific contagion, to which the special name diph- theria has been given on that account. Some sore throats are remarkable for the rapid formation of a slough. Every kind of constitutional taint, especially syphilis, has its peculiar variety of sore throat; and so have many poisons, especially mercury, iodine, and arsenic. Of the eye, we need only say that every local and constitutional cause of inflammation produces its own cha- racteristic changes. Section 8. Theories and Literary History of In- flammation and its Treatmeul.—lTi the present section I propose to give a succinct bibliographical account culled from a select set of authors, showing the various theories which have been held from the earliest times as to the nature of inflammation and its treatment. No branch of medical study is more instructive. The errors into which various sects and schools have fallen, arose not from causes peculiar to them, but from certain propen- sities inherent in the human mind. Hence, though the details may vary, errors of the same kind are incessantlv coming to the surface in diiferent ages. Such a sludv furnishes a refutation both of those who despise medicine altogether, and of those who despise all before our own time. It shows that unbiassed observation has led shrewd and able thinkers to virtually the same conclusions in all ages ; thus proving that the practice of medicine is based upon truth, and that in every age sensible physicians have practised ne:irly iJi the same way. Be it observed that the word theory is used in two senses. In the first sense, e«very rational being must have a ilieory, that is, must devise some such way of viewing any given facts as will connect them with other facts. The other kijid of theory signi- fies a set of doctrines, borrowed from the physical and physiological doctrines of the day, which pro- fesses to account for disease and dictate treatment h priori. Such were the theories of Boerha^ive, CuUen. Broussais, and Rasori. But there is tins cardinal doctrine to be observed willi respect to medical theories. I'hiquiries into the nature of disease, and observations on the efl-'ects of remedies, constitute two independent lines of study, the results of which may often seem contradictory. But the rational man will rather bend theiiries to suit the effects of treatment, than make treatment suit theory, llobert Whytt, spenkmg of Mailer s theories, said, that if they were true, surgeons must certainly alter their treatment, " wherel.y, if there be a mistake in the doctrine, many lives may be endangered or losi." {Essays, S^c, l^diu., 17ii(), p. y'2.) ■i'he effects of remedies on diseased persons are ultimate facts, to be learned by observation and experience and not to be gathered with certainty from any a priori argument without experimental proof. That enlarged acquaintance with chemistry and physiology which each suc- ceeding age gives us, widens the field of obser- vation, enables us to find differences in diseases, and gives us means of accurate diagnosis ; but cannot dictate treatment. Theories of disease cannot be perfect or final till physiology is an exact science. But the pro-, pensity to base treatment upon uncertain and fluctuating theory, which renders every age of physic ridiculous to the succeeding ones, arises from one of the chronic imperfections of the human mind. The three leading Medical Sects of the Ancients after Hippocrates, flourish to this day. There are the Dogmatists, or Rationalists, each with his '•sound pathological theory," which he affirms to be a necessary guide to "successful practice." There are the Empirics, or Practical Men, who try to find " what will cure what," and despise the flickering light afforded by theory. And there are the Methodists, who have a short cut, iiido^ov, to practice, whether by the lancet, brandy, blisters or globules. A minute classification of the opinions held during twenty-five centuries would be impossible. For our purpose we may make a rough division of the surgical doctrines of ^inflammation into seven classes. The first is that of ancient surgery, more particularly as represented by Galen, whose doctrines, classi'fication, and very words were copied bv succeeding writers, and only became obsolete in the time of Cullen and Hunter. The second began with the beginning of modern science in the seventeenth century, and adopting a vitalistic, or pneumo-pathological basis, continued down, through Ciillen and Hunter, to Cooper, Abernetliy, and the great surgeons of the last generation. A third may comprise the early microscopic school, by which the capillaries were chiefly studied. A fourth coincides with the. development of the " cell " doctrine. A fifth in- cludes the later ideas of the activity and power of protoplasm or "germinal matter," indepei:- dently of the formation or function of '-cells formally so called. A sixth will treat of chemi- cal theories. A seventh of the now popular neuro- pathology. Subsection 1.—.Ancient Surgery. We find Hippocrates (B.C. 460)in his Treatise on Ancient Medicine, rebuking those physicians who pretended that it was necessary first to form some philosophical conception of man in the abstract, b r'l icrrtv &v9^cnros, and of his relation to the hy- pothetical elements of hot, cold, moist, and dry., and to deduce from this a priori the nature of disease- and the method of treatment. On the contrary, he declared that the nature of man could be learned d posteriori, by the study of medicine ; and that the physician should know man practically, in his relation with food and drink, and his entire mode of life. We find that he, like all true physicians- down to our own times, treats of the great idiopa- thic inflammations, the pleurisies, pneumonias, phreiizies, quinsies, and erysipelas, not as so many local diseases, with constitutional symptoms, but as tn.e fevers, true constitutional diseases fV„m the first. He speaks of persons ' levered with ardent fevers, and pleiu-opneumonias,-