51(5 RECTUM, D: caused hy the protnisum of tlie mucous membrane, and when the tumors are returned it is no longer to be seen. A deep groove usually indicates the line of separation between skin and mucous mem- brane. It is important not to mistake the ring of everted skin for " external piles ;" these latter, however, are very frequently present, but in the form of irregular and pendulous projections.] In general, internal hcemorrhoids are less pain- ful than those situated externally, and sometimes the patient is not conscious of having them till he begins to void blood from the rectum. In the former case, the veins or tumors are surrounded by soft and yielding substances, which do not make any painful pressure on them ; but, when they are situated opposite or external to the anus, they are liable to suffer painful constriction from the action of the sphincter muscle. [Pain is certainly not a prominent symptom in this complaint, unless the hamorrhoids become in- flamed, or descend and become strangulated by the sphincter. The sensations are rather those of ex- treme annoyance and irritation than of acute suffering, accompanied often, especially in the edu- cated classes, with extreme nervousness and mental depression. If, independently of inflammation, there should be acute pain in defsecation and sub- sequently, it will generally be found that they are accompanied by an anal fissure, for which the appropriate treatment must be adopted.] Internal piles sometimes occasion frequent de- sire to make water ; or, by bringing on spasm of the muscles which surround the membranous part of the urethra, they may cause complete retention of urine. They are" also liable to discharge a great quantity of blood, which, according to Sir Ben- jamin Brodie, is not venous, but arterial. " Piles (he says) do not bleed in the early, but in the advanced stage of the disease, when there is an increased determination of blood, not only to the veins, but to the mucous membrane, and cellular texture by which they are surrounded." Some- times they bring on serious complaints, either by bursting and discharging blood so profusely as dangerously to reduce the patient ; or by exciting inflammation of the adjacent parts, and causing abscesses and fistulte ; or, lastly, by becoming strangulated by the contraction of tlie sphincter imi, so as to occasion great agony. Piles, which Weed but little, and remain in a quiet state, are not of much consequence ; but those which bleed profusely, cause violent pain, or which induce in- flammation, and all its eifects, demand the greatest attention. Lieutaud mentions a person who lost three quarts of blood from some piles in the course of a couple of days ; and both Arius, and the celebrated philosopher Copernicus, thus bled to death. I do not know what credit ought to be given to the extraordinary case cited by Panaroli, in which a Spanish nobleman voided every day, for four years, a pint of blood from some haemorrhoids, and yet enjoyed perfect healtii ! (See Obs. Chir. pen- tec, ii. obs. 46.) For other curious facts of this nature, see Diet, des Seiences Mid. t. xx. p. 458. [The statement of Sir Benjamin Brodie that piles do not bleed in the early but in the advanced stages of the disease, is not quite in accordance with the experience of the writer. Tiie account given by the majority of patients is that they lost blood in the early stages, but that after the pro- [SEASES OF. trusion became habitual the bleeding was less fre- quent. The reason is, probably, that after habitual protrusion and exposure externally the mucous membrane becomes thickened, and is less easily abraded. lu the later stages, indeed, the mucous membrane is often seen to have become almost cutaneous in its appearance. This appears to be the general rule: it is quite true, however, that in those cases where copious and iilarming bleeding takes place, the disease has usually been of long standing.] It sometimes happens, when hajmorrhoidal swellings are protruded, and attacked with inflam- mation, they become so violently strangulated bj' the spasmodic action of the sphincter ani, that the parts undergo a spontaneous mortification, and a radical cure is the result. {J. Hmvsldp, On D s. of the Lower Intestines., <5-c. p. 210. ed. 3.) Sir Benjamin Brodie has known several cases cured in this manner ; and observes, that there is little or no danger in the process. Amongst the patients of the Bloomsbury Dispensary, I have noticed similar occurrences : one of these was in a man who suffered from internal piles, one of which, in its inflamed and protruded state, equalled an egg in size. The strangulation of it produced morti- fication, followed by immediate relief, and a speedy cure. [More frequently the sloughing is less com- plete than this, and only extends frjm the surface to a limited depth into the tujnor, so that when the slough separates, further measures are neces- sary for the removal of the remainder.] Treatment.-—-Wlien piles are in their earlj' stage, and the patient has merely a slight protrusion, or none at all, but is complaining of heat and itching about the anus, the bowels are to be kept gently open. The best medicine for this purpose seems to Sir Benjamin Brodie to be an ounce and a half of confectio sennse, half an ounce of sulphur prse- cipitatum, and a sufficient quantity of mel ros£e, to make an electuary, a teaspoonfid, or any requisite quantity of which is to be taken every evening. The patient shoidd also avoid taking wine freely, and all sedentary habits. If this plan should not afford relief. Sir B. Brodie recommends the injec- tion of half a pint of cold pimip water, as a lave- ment., every morning after breakfast. In some cases, the injection may be rendered astringent with alum, or the tinct. ferri muriatis, or cold lime- water may be used. In certain instances, the confectio piperis comp., which resembles Ward's Paste, proves beneficial, the dose being a piece of about the size of a nutmeg, three times a day. According to the observations of Sir Benjamin Brodie, this substance passes into the large intes- tines, and gets into contact with the piles, acting directly upon them. As it is apt to accumulate in the bowels, its employment should always be accompanied by the occasional exhibition of some mild aperient. Cubebs pepper, he believes, acts in the same way as ^Vard's Paste. In some cases, where there is a great deal of irritation, the patient will derive benefit from taking, thrice a day, 5 ss of balsam of copaiba, and 15 drops of liquor po- tassa;, rubbed down with two or three drachms of nuicilige and one ounce of cinnamon water. (/}nW(e, O/). et vol. cit. p. 747.) Gentle laxative medicines, and an horizontal position of the body, commonly alleviate the un- easiness resulting from hremorrhoids. Ihe appli- cation of an ointment, composed of equal parts of