312 MORTIFICATION. always an evil, but in this pnrticulav case I look upon it as being singularly so. Whatever heats, irritates, stimulates, or gives uneasiness, appears to nie always to increase the disorder, and to add to the rapidity of its progress; and, on the contrary, I have always found, that whatever tended merely to calm, to appeiise, and to relax, at least retarded the mischief, if it did no more." Indeed, tlie very nature of the disease, as al- ready described, leaves little hope of essential good from topical applications. All that can be expected from the best of them is, some diminution of pain, and from the 'worst of them, an increase of it, with a more rapid extension of the gangrenous mischief. In Greenwich Hospital, I understand that gan- grsena senilis is not unfrequent amongst the old pensioners, and that one of the surgeons of that establishment finds enveloping the foot and leg with lamb's wool, or other soft materials, calculated to maintain its temperature and circulation, better than the usual applications. The practice seems rational, with reference to the pathology of the disease. For this information 1 am indebted to Sir Benjamin Brodie. [This surgeon was the late Mr. Vance, as we learn from Brodie's lectures. The whole limb was enveloped in loose flakes of carded cotton, and sewn up in a silk handkerchief, and allowed to remain undisturbed for some days ; thus the ex- posure and irritation and fatigue of repeated dress- ings are avoided, the patient and his friends are saved from excitement, and the surgeon from im- portunate inquiries. If there be no offensive smell, the dressings may be left many days; if there be, they should be changed often. A lotion of chloride of soda, or an oint- ment of resin ointment mixed with creosote, may be used in such cases, or a light jacket filled with pow- dered peat charcoal. The patient should remain in bed, and the digestive organs be carefully attended to ; the quantity of nutriment be sufficient, but anything like over-stimulation avoided.] When the toes are, to all appearance, perfectly mortified, and seem so loose as to be capable of being easily taken away, some surgeons remove them". But, however loose they may seem, if they be violently twisted off, or the parts by which they hang be divided, a very considerable degree of pain will most commonly attend such operation, which therefore had much better' be avoided ; for Pott had seen the pain thus produced followed by fresh mischief of the gangrenous kind. If the patient does well, these parts will certamly drop ' off ; if he does not, no good can arise from re- moving them. The slightest hairaorrhage is to be avoided. Dr. Kirkland observes, that w6 must be cari-tul not to force tiie doses of opium, especially at first; and that the medicine does more harm than good when its soporific effects go so far as to occasion delirium, take away the appetite, or cause aftec tions of the heart. I may state, liowever, that thi patient should in this, as well as in otlier examples of mortification, be kept contiimally under tiie in- fluence of opium, by a proper repetition of the 'doses from time to time, as directed by Pott. [The object is to avoid pain. For tliis purpose small repeated doses of opium to begin with, increased by degrees, are cnougli. There is no foundation for the belief that opium checks the disease; and it is of no use to keep a patient on his death-bed druuk and delirious with drugs.] In a case which I lately attended with Sir A. Cooper, the medicines which seemed to have most effect in prolong- ing the patient's existence were opium, the sul- phate of quinine, and castor oil, with otlier mild aperients. This species of mortification rarely attacks both feet. One example of mortification of both feet, supposed to have been mainly induced by want of the common necessaries of life, presented itself a year or two ago in a woman in University College Hospital. The patient was a female about 30; the mortified parts of the feet separated, and she recovered. This case was not, perhaps, the kind of gangrene now under consideration. But one uneqiiivocal instance of such disorder attacking both feet, I attended, in the summer of 1828, with Mr. Hughes, of Holborn; and the gentleman, who was the subject of the disease was also visited by Sir Astley Cooper. Both feet and legs were at- tacked, and gradually destroyed nearly up to the knees. The patient lived a month after the com- mencement of the disorder. During most of this time the pulse was from 100 to 130; and the stomach so little disturbed, that the patient used generally to eat a mutton chop for dinner, until the Fast two or three days preceding his death. Until the final stage, there was scarcely any delirium. Two circumstances were particularly noticed; first, that the disease never extended itself, without being preceded by violent pains in the parts about to be destroyed, so that a judgment can always be formed beforehand from the degree of sufferuig, whether the spreading of the disorder would be considerable, or not. Secondl}-, that the process of mortification, and its appearances in one leg, were totally different from those exhibited m the other. In the left, the disorder began on the inside of one of the toes, and followed the course described by Pott; in the right, a general diminu- tion of the temperature of the foot and leg \yas the first thing noticed, without any discoloration of the skin, or any vesications, or spot on the toes. The coldness, after increasing very much, was followed by total loss of sensibility in the parts, and the cessation of the circulation and every other action in them; the fiesh being little more changed in its appearance than that ol the limb oi a dead subject. The parts, as the French surgeons would say, were mummijied. , , . . 2 With respect to the external or local treat- ment of mortification, the first indication consists in removing, if possible, such external causes as may have occasioned or kept up the disorder ; as the compression of bandages, ligatures, tumours; all irritating substances, &c. When mortification arises from mfiammation, which still prevails in a considerable degree it is evident that the dead part itself only claims secondarv consideration, and that the prmc.pal des derat\nn is to prevent the mortification from spreading to the living circumlcrence, by lessening the iufiamraation present. However eligible the employment of cold appli cat ns may bein theory, in "-' tification attcn^^^^^^ with inflammation fomentations and cm U c- nnulticcs are commonly preferred m piattice. Be des bread and water and linseed meal poul- ce the c are several others, which have acquired elcbr ty Of this kind are the Cataplasma car-