11 perform the first successful operation in London in November 1842; and he had two other successful cases in May and September 1843. In that year and in 1844, Dr. Frederic Bird had three and Mr. Lane two successful cases. Mr. Lane's first patient is now (18(57) still alive and has had seven children. In 1843 and 1845, Mr. Southam, of Salford, and in 1845 Mr. Dickson, of Shrewsbury, published successful cases. In 1846 Mr. H. E. Burd had a case which is published in the thirtieth nnd thirty-second volumes of the Medico-Chimr- ffical Transaclions, the patient having recovered and had a child two years after the operation. In the same year Mr. Solly assisted materially in the progress of ovariotomj', by pointing out one of the causes of danger and the means of avoid- ing it ; taking advantage of an unsuccessful case ■which occurred in his practice in St. Thomas's Hospital, to teach his pupils and professional brethren, that retraction of the pedicle behind the ligature is very likely to occur, and to lead to fatal haemorrhage, unless prevented by great care. His clinical lecture, published in the Medical Gazette in 1846, contains a masterly review of the argu- ments for and against the operation, which must have had considerable effect upon the mind of the profession at the time. The year 1846 is also noteworthy in the history of ovariotomj', as in that year Mr. Csesar Hawkins performed the operation successfully in St. George's Hospital, this being the first successful operation in any of our metropolitan hospitals. But Mr. Haw- Kins did not repeat the operation, and his example was not followed by others for several years ; Dr. F. Bird and Mr. Lane being the only operators in London, except Dr. Protheroe Smith, who had a successful case, although Dr. Clay continued his operations at Manchester, and successful cases were recorded by Dr. Elkington of Birmingham, and by Mr. Crouch in 1849, and by Mr. Cornish of Taunton, and Mr. Day of "Walsall, in 1850. In 1850 Mr. Duffin inaugurated a new era in ovariotomy, by pointing out the danger of leaving the tied end of the pedicle to decompose within the peritoneal cavity, and by insisting upon the im- portance uf keeping the strangulated stump outside. He acted up to this principle in a case which was published in the thirty-fourth volume of the Medico-Chiritrgical Transactions. On the r2th of November of the same year, a memorable discus- sion took place in the Medico-Chirurgical Society after Mr. Duffin's case and Dr. Robert Lee's'table of cases of ovariotomy had been read ; which led to the common belief, not yet overcome, that we have no means of determining whether an ovarian tumor can or cannot be removed without the pre- lude of an exploratory incision. The debate was closed by Mr. Lawrence, one of the oldest, ablest, and most experienced Fellows of the Society, pro- posing the question : " Whether the attempts at treating diseased ovaries by surgical operation can be encouraged and continued without danger to the character of the profession ? " No wonder that this discussion acted most unfavourably on the progress of ovariotomy. Meanwhile Dr. Clay continued to operate at Manclicster, but as his cases were not brought before any influential society, and only about twenty were published in detail, and as his operations were not performed in an hospital, his example led only very few surgeons to follow him; while his OVARIOTOMY, 411 adherence to the long incision maintained the dread with which the operation was regarded both by the profession and the public, long after chloro- form had done so much to lighten apprehension, to abolish pain, and to lessen shock. Here and there an occasional case was recorded. Mr. Beale, of Halesworth, had a successful case by the small incision a fortnight after the above-men- tioned memorable debate ; but Dr. F. Bird himself either ceased to operate or to report his cases. In 1852 Dr. Tanner had a suc- cessful case, and a second in 1853. In the same year (1853), Mr. Borlase Childsand Mr. Erichsen had each one successful case. In 1855 Mr. Garrard of Halesworth had another, and in 1857, Mr. Humphrey of Cambridge and Mr. Hunt of Ashton-under-Lyne had each a successful case. Between his first case in 1852 and 1856, Mr. Baker Brown operated on nine cases; but his re- sults were so disastrous, seven of nine patients having died, that the operation fell into still greater discredit, and an influential reviewer wrote, that " though it may excite the astonishment of the vulgar, it calls neither for the knowledge of the anatomist nor the skill of the surgeon," and that whenever an operation was performed " so fearful in its nature, often so immediately fatal in its re- sults, a fundamental principle of medical morality is outraged." In some of the most recent surgical works the operation was not even alluded to ; in the best works on diseases of women it was con- demned. No successful case had occurred in Scotland since Mr. Lizars's partial success in 1825. Ovariotomy had only once been performed in Ireland. In London, Mr. Walne, Mr. Lane, and Dr. F. Bird had either ceased to operate or to publish their cases, Mr. Baker Brown had not operated for more than two years, and Mr. Caesar Hawkins's was still, after twelve years, the only successful operation which had been performed in any of our large metropolitan hospitals. But with the year 1858 a new era began for this operation. The writer, on his return from the East after the Crimean war, resuming his duties as surgeon to the Samaritan Hospital, became strongly impressed by the miserable end of some patients who died worn out by the ordinary progress of the disease, by the inutility of palliative treatment, and by the danger of iodine injections. This led him, in December 18S7,after carefully considering the evidence adduced for and against ovariotomy, to put the operation to the test of personal experience, pledging himself to make the results fully known to the profession. His first attempt was not en- couraging. Finding the intestines in front of the tumor, he was induced to close the wound without proceeding further, on the representation that the tumor could not be ovarian. The patient re- covered well, but died.four months afterwards, from spontaneous rupture of a cyst into the peritoneal cavity, and he had the mortification to find that the tumor might have been easily removed. Tiie three following cases were successful ; the first was in February 1858. The tumor was ex- hibited at the Pathological Society ; the case was fully reported in the Medical Times, and more than one writer has traced to that case the com- mencement of what has been termed on the conti- nent " the revival of ovariotomy in England." The fifth case, or fourth case of completed ovari- otomy, was fatal. These five cases were brought