ISO JOINTS, EXCISION OF. The following observations were recently made by Mr. Syme upon excision of the elbow joint:— " There is no operation in which the mode of making the incision is of more consequence. TTnless tbey be sufficiently free, the portions of bone cannot be removed without risk of injury to the remaining parts, and unless they be properly directed, the resulting cicatrices will interfere with the free mo- tions of the limb; and we are not satisfied here with the result unless there be perfect flexion, ex- tension, and rotation, with the full natural amount of strength. I believe the only incisions by which this perfect result can be obtained are those ori- ginally practised by Moreau, which are, a trans- verse one, carried across the back of the articulation immediately above the olecranon, from the ulnar nerve to the external condyle, and two longitudinal through the extremities of the transverse, so that the incision altogether has the form of the letter H. When the flaps have been raised, free access is'gained to the articulation, and when the opera- tion is completed, the edges of the transverse in- cision, if brought accurately together, generaUy adhere by first intention, instead of healing by granulation and adhering to the bone, so as to pre- vent free motion. Having dissected up the flaps, do not attempt to remove all the articulation_ at once, as otherwise there will be a risk of cutting the ulnar nerve, with consequent deficiency ot sensation and atrophy of the limb; but havmg ex- posed the olecranon, cut it off in the first instance, so as to get free access to the joint, then divide the external lateral ligament, and having pushed the ulnar nerve over the inner condyle, free the end ot the humerus and saw it off on a line with the tuberosities ; and, lastly, remove in succession the ends of the radius and ulna on a line with the base of the coronoid process. More than the extent thus defined would be unnecessary and mjurious, while less would hardly remove the disease, and^even it it did, would incur the risk of ankylosis. (bee Svme's Lectures on Clinical Surgery in ihn Lancet. vol i 1855 p. 231 ; also Treatise on the Excision of'Diseased Joints. ^so.'&A\nh. 1831; and P™- ciples of Surgery. e&. i.) It is seldom that there is any bleeding of conse- nuence, occasionally it becomes necessary to tie two or three vessels. The wound is now to be closed by sutures ; and the arm laid m a semi- flexed position upon a well-padded angular splint. Or a box may be used with moveable sides, as re- commended by Mr. Butcher of Dublin. In many cases a stiff arm has resulted from the operation ; this it is important to guard against if possible. and with the view of obtaining a false or new joint in this locality, Mr. Fergusson and many other surgeons employ an instrument invented by mr. Christopher Heath, and which is called Heath s splint, which serves to prevent the bones from coming into. close contact, and yet Permits d flexion and extension. (See /<"»'"^^°" " Surgery, ed. 4, p. 303.) A description ot this splint, with a drawing, is given in ^ ' ' />f several cases of excision of the e bow joint in the Lancet. (See vol. ii. 1857, p. 546.) In that report, three cases are detailed in which excision was performed through a l»"g' "dinal in- cision, with the most satisfactory results. Now, although every form of incision is practised, the single longitudinal incision has latterly received the preference in the hands of Mr. Pirrie ot Aber- deen, Mr. Fergusson, and many others. In adopt- ing it, the soft parts are left in the best possible state for steadying the cut ends of the bones. Mr. Erichsen employs the T incision, but has occa- sionally adopted the longitudinal. When the reparative stage has fairly set in, passive motion should be used from time to time so as to insure the formation of a false joint. Upon the care and attention bestowed in the after treatment will depend much of the success in the result of the operation. Of cases which have been dissected some years after the operation, the ends of the bones have been found rounded and smooth, and firmly united by a dense fibroid or ligamentous structure, per- mitting of all the movements that occur in a healthy joint. ° A good dissection of the kind by Mr. Lister is given in Mr. Syme's clinical lectures previously referred to. Excision of the elbow, although most frequently required for disease, is sometimes performed for compound fractures and dislocations, and for osseous ankylosis in a faulty position. We have now seen it done many times for the last con- dition, and with equally good results as when resorted to for disease alone. But it was not practised for ankylosis till long after it had been adopted for disease. On this point Mr. Syme observes that he had operated more than a hun- dred times for disease before he did so for ankylosis. "Though often requested to excise the joint under these circumstances,*' says Mr. Syme, " I had not been prepared to interfere with the healthy integuments merely for the convenience of the patient. But at last a j^oung man from the High- lands of Perthshire came to consult me, with both aims permanently extended, one immovably so, and the other admitting of but a very slight degree of motion at the elbow ; resulting m the one case from fracture with dislocation, in the other from dislocation onty. It is impossible to imagine a greater degree of helplessness than this young man's, who was obliged to seek assist- ance in the performance of the most ordinary oftices. This case called loudly for interference, and I performed excision of one elbow The result was an arm so perfect that it could not be distm- Kuished from a sound one till his sleeve was removed." (See Lectures on Clin. Surgery, Lancet, vol. i. 1855, p. 231.) This operation is asserted to be most successful in young patients; the records of surgery, however, rive ample proof of its advantageous employment in -idults The experience of most hospital sur- geons has been extensive in this operation, and although there are no regular statistics of it pub- lished, this we believe is in consequence of its being looked upon as almost invariably successful in its results. Bad consequences have certainly followed sonic examples, but in these amputation would not, in all probability, have been attended with better results.] [Eacision ofiUc Wrist Joint was tirst performed by Moreau, revived by Mr. Fergusson m 18.1 and has been occasionally practised of late y ars bj Stanley, Butcher, Erichsen, and other s geoi^s. Of all -the joints f^^^::'tr^'i^^ misos to be the least satislactorj, i<u hitherto have been by no ''l'^^d h re pated. A successful case appears recorded here