734 THYROID GLAND, DISEASES OF. several of their villages. He found also that the disease resembled that seen in Europe in respect to its varieties. In North America, bronchocele attacks persons of every age, but it is most fre- quently seen in adults ; a difference from what is noticed in Europe. Bronchocele is said to be fre- quent in Lower Canada. Bonpland, the companion of Humboldt, informed Alibert that the disease was endemic in New Granada, and that it pre- vailed in such a degree in the little towns of Honda and Monpa, on the banks of the Magdalen river, that scarcely any of the inhabitants were free from it. The blacks, and those who led an active laborious life, however, are reported to escape the complaint. Some of the natives of the Isthmus of Darien are said to be terribly disfigured by it. (Aliberi, Nosol. nat. t. i. p. 469. Also, Observa- tions sur quelques Phhiomenes peu connus qu'offi-e le Goitre sous les Tropiqiies, dans les Plaines el stir Ics Plateaux des Andes, par A. de Humboldt, in Journ. de Physiologie, par F. Magendie, t. iv. p. 109. Paris, 1824.) In European women, bronchocele usually makes its appearance at an early age, generally between the eighth and twelfth year, and it continues to increase gradually for three, four, or five years, and is said sometimes to enlarge more during the last half-year, than for a year or two previously. It does not generally rise so high as the ears, as in the cases mentioned by Wiseman. Sometimes, however, this happens, as we see in the case of Clement Desenne, of whom Alibert has given an engraving. In this patient, a part of the tumor, as large as a hen's egg, projected into the mouth. {Nosol. nat. t. i, p. 466.) The swelling extended from the ears to the middle of the breast. A seton produced a partial subsidence of it ; but, when it was withdrawn, the orifices closed. After two years more, the swelling became painful, suppura- tion took place, and fifteen pints of matter were discharged ; and six ounces every day after the swelling had burst, came away with the dressings for three months ; but, notwithstanding all this suppuration and more afterwards, the tumor was only partially lessened. The disease mostly has a pendulous form, not unlike, as Albucasis says, the flap, or dewlap, of a turkey-cock, the bottom being the largest part of the tumor. Alibert mentions a case in which the swelling hung down to the middle of the sternum, and the large mass, which was quite a burthen to the patient, used to become hard, and, as it were, frozen, in very cold weather. {Nosol. nat. t. i. p. 466.) In another curious instance, the tumor formed a long cylinder, which reached down to the middle of the thigh, the diameter becoming gradually smaller downwards. (P. 46(5.) The common seat of bronchocele is the thyroid gland ; but, frequently, the surrounding cellular membrane is more or less thickened, and contributes to the swelling. Sometimes also the neighbouring lymphatic glands are affected, wlien its base is widened, and extends from one side of the neck to the other. In this circumstance, the swelling gradually loses itself in the surrounding parts, and is not circumscribed, as in ordinary instances. {Postiglione, Mem. sulla Natura del Oozzo, p. 20.) When the disease is very large, it generally occasions a difficulty of breathing which is increased by the patient catching cold or at- tempting to run. In some subjects the tumor is so large, and alfects the breathing so much, that a loud wheezing is occasioned ; but there are many exceptions to this remark. Sometimes, when the swelling is of great size, patients suffer very little inconvenience ; while others are greatly incom- moded though the tumor is small. In general the inconvenience is trivial. The voice is sometimes rendered hoarse ; and, in particular cases, the difficulty of speech is very considerable. (See Flaja?d, Collez. d' Oss. t. iii. p. 271.) The difficulty of respiration, produced by the pressure of the tumor, and the enlargement of other glands, as this author remarks, is the most danger- ous effect of the disease, since, by disordering the pulmonary circulation, it renders the pulse irregular and intermittent, and a strong throbbing is excited in the region of the heart, followed by fatal disease of the lungs themselves ; consequences often not suspected to have any connection with the bron- chocele, though it is in reality the immediate cause of them. (Vol.cit. p. 278.) The causes of bronchocele are little known. To the doctrine, that bronchocele is brought on by the earthy impregnation of water used for drink, the followin? objections offer themselves:—1. The water of Derbyshire, in districts where this disease is considered endemic,contains much supercarbonate of lime ; but that in eommon use about Notting- ham, where the disease is also prevalent, is im- pregnated with sulphate of lime. However, that the disease is not produced by water, impregnated with sulphate of lime, is evident ; for, as Alibert observes, the waters of St. Jean, St. Sulpice, and St. Pierre, where bronchocele is frequent, contain much less of this earth than the waters of Upper Maurienne, where the disease is hardly ever noticed, though the houses are built upon a vast quarry of gypsum. The same fact was observed by Bonpland in New Granada. {Nosol. nat. t. i. p. 471.) Nor, as Fodere explained, can the cause of the disease be correctly referred to the use of any particular kind of food. Certain localities, how- ever, seem to contribute to its frequency ; for this author observes, that the disease is not prevalent in very high places, nor in open plains ; but that it becomes more and more common as we descend into deep valleys made by torrents, where there is a good deal of marsh and abundance of fruit trees. The air is here constantly humid. 2. Abstinence from unboiled water does not diminish or interrupt the gradual progress of the disease. 3. Patients are cured of the disease who still continue to drink water from the same source as before, without taking any precaution, as boiling, &c. 4. The disease in this country is less frequently found among men. 5. Many instances may be related of a swelling in the neck, sometimes very painful, and generally termed bronchocele, being produced very suddenly, by difficult parturition, violent coughing, or any other unusually powerful effort. (See Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., vol. iv. p. 279.) In Derbyshire, Genoa, and Piedmont, bronchocele has been attributed to drinking water cooled with ice. To this theory, many of the objections, concerning the earthy impregnation of water, stand in full force; with this additional re- flection, that " in (ireenland, where snow-water is commonly used, these unsightly protuberances are never met with ; nor (says Watson) did I ever see one of them in Westmoreland, where we have higher mountains and more snow than in Derby- slure, in which country they are very common.