37 INFLAMMATION. Diseases Dysentery Diarrhoea Cholera Influenza Typhus Plasue dysenteria' diarrhffia ' cholera > influenza typhua pestis Zi/mniic Principles Enterine Cholerine Infliicnzine Typhine Pes tine The existence of gangrenine, crgotine, ophthal- niiue, tetanine, miliarine, diphtherine, parotine, aphthine, traclieine, may also be admitted. It is maintained by some pathologists, that the same specific poison produces several of these diseases— erysipelas, necusia, and raetria for instance; but while the diseases are described asdistinct, it will be most convenient to consider their exciters as distinct, although thej' may be convertible into each other, and be as nearly related as varioline andvaccinine. "The chemical composition of these principles is at present unknown, but as salts are distin- guished from each other by their relations to other bodies, and, though they may have the same appearance in solution, are found to differ by the compounds which they form with other bodies in solution, so the existence is demonstrated by the effect, of the matter here called ' lyssine,' on animals, although it cannot be detected by the rough analysis of artificial chemistry. The small est quantity of ' lyssine ' imaginable inserted imder the skin of a dog produces hydrophobia ; and the bites of the infected dog will throw other dogs, and even human beings, into a state similar to that of the dog from which the charge of lyssine originally came. Varioline in the same manner produces small-pox, if the patient has not previ- ously undergone its influence or the influence of vaccinine, a modification of varioline " It must be admitted, with respect to all the forms of these diseases, that the body, in the cj-cle of external circumstances through which it passes, may run into them spontaneously; for it is im- possible to trace them invariably to infectious sources ; it is not d priori more improbable that they, than other diseases, should arise sponta- neously, and it is impossible to account for their existence in the world upon any other principle than that of spontaneous origin. Still the property of communicating their infection and effecting ana- logous transformations in otiier bodies, is as impor- tant as it is characteristic in these diseases, which It is proposed therefore to call in this sense zymotic. " Some of the morbific principles are fixed, others are volatile ; but the greater part of them are fixed and volatile in different circumstances. Necusine, pestine, syphiline, lyssine, cquinine, and vaccinine are must frequently fixed ; they give rise when placed on the skin, particularly ■when the epidermis is removed, to their peculiar diseases; but contagion is not invariably the result of their contact; indeed, in several of them it is the exception rather than the rule. Either there 18 no matter in the organisation susceptible of transformation, or the specific transformation is overpowered by the vital energies; for in every wse, if the morbific principle tends to impart its movement to the organisation, the organisation, anmiated by the natural forces, has a tendency to continiie its own processes, and to impart its conservative movements to all the organic matters Which are brought within its sphere. . . . " The blood which pervades the whole system is the primary seat of zymotic diseases; but this does not diminish the importance of the local phenomena with which they commence, proceed, and terminate; for they affect (as poisons do) particular organs more extensively and frequently than others, give rise to specific pathological forma- tions or secretions, and derive their character from the lesions and affected organs."—Fourth Report to Registrar-General, quoted also in Cholera Re- port, 1849-54. Thus the poisons which may be supposed by hypothesis to be the causes of various inflammations, may either be introduced or set going from with- out, or may arise by spontaneous change within. In the latter case it may be supposed that they maybe constituted by "retained secretions;" or, as we prefer to say, by changes which take place in the blood in consequence of the presence of matters which ought to have been excrete.l. The excretions, whose retention may give rise to inflammation, are those of the liver and bowels, the skin, the kidneys, and the womb. Retention of the excretions of the liver and bowels, indicated by furred tongue, fetid breath, muddy complexion, and fetid dejections, predis- poses to low and irritable inflammations generally, especially of the eyelids, gums, and sebaceous fol- licles of the skin. Retention of the exhalations of the skin, and especially of oily and odoriferous matters, may be caused by neglect of exercise, washing and friction, and by exposure to cold. The former condition,viz., that of a dry, rough, hide- bound skin, like a torpid state of the bowels, predis- poses to any disease. As for cold, the suppression of cutaneous exhalation is, as we shall show presently, but a very small part of its morbific effects. The in- fluence of the womb, as an excrementitious organ, as I have shown in a paper read before the Medi- cal Society of London, amounts to this: That whenever the blood is in a morbidly loaded state, as shown by acne or other signs of irritation; or when the secretions of liver and bowels are de- fective, then the womb acts as an occasional organ of elimination; and monorrhagia, with membranous exfoliation, or purulent discharge, or diseased pla- centa and abortion if the patient should be pregnant, are the consequences. Nimiberless con- gestive and nervous disorders, and threatenings of inflammation, are relieved by the appearance of the menses. Hippocrates declared that hcorao- ptysis in women was relieved by the breaking forth of the menses; and, conversel}-, that women are seldom liable to gout unless their menses be stopped. There is a kind of rheumatism, or rheu- matic gout, to which women are subject—petty annoying pains in the joints, attended with head- ache, or with dyspepsia, and in which menstruation often carries off all the symptoms for the time. But of all the secretions, the urine is that which seems to have the greatest relation to inflamma- tion ; and although the subject is still too obscure to admit of positive statements, it seems probable that there are two distinct sets of conditions which may be met with. One is that which exists in certain persons whose blood appears to be loaded with superfluous matter, which ought to undergo the change into connimn urinary matter, but does not; this on some provocation breaks down into poisonous matters, which create inflammation or other disease; until at last they ore more fully