rSEASES OF. 536 RECTUM, D plete it, and M. Be'clard, who about the year 1022 or 182a advocated its porforniancp, never had the opportunity of practising it himself. It appears to have been first executed with success by M. F;iget in 1739, who removed an incli and a half of the whole circumference of the bowel. The evacu- ation and retention of the faeces were accomplished in this patient as well after the operation as before it, notwithstanding nearly all the external sphincter had been taken away; and Paget declared his own belief tliat the removal of a much more con- siderable portion of the rectum might be effected. It remained for M. Lisfranc to furnish a proof of this : his first patient, operated upon in February 1826, was perfectly cured by the 13th of the fol- io vving April. In January 1828, he operated on a woman ; and in the following October on another female ; both cases ending successfully. In a fourth patient the result was doubtful. A fifth died in March 1829, four days after the operation, with abscesses in the pelvis and pro- bably of phlebitis. The sixth patient, a man 72 years of age, died the day after the operation, and no post-mortem examination was instituted. The seventh patient died on the 2Sth day, with sup- puration in the pelvis and inflammation in the veins. In addition to these cases, M. Lisfranc had two other successful ones, so that the total result is, five cures, one case doubtful, and three deaths. (See Velpeaii, in Nouv. JElem de Med. Optr. vol. iii. p. 1,033.) The patient being placed in the position usually chosen for lithotom}', two semilunar incisions are made, about an inch from the anus, on each side of it. These cuts, which are to extend through the skin and cellular tissue, are to unite behind and in front of the rectum. The end of the bowel is then to be separated by careful dissection from all the surrounding parts. The forefinger, half bent, is then passed into it, for the purpose of drawing it downwards, and, by this means, the raucous coat, which may be the part alone, or prin- cipally, diseased, may be made to descend a good way ; and a considerable portion of it may be easily removed with scissors curved sideways, or with a bistoury. Even if the cancerous aflfection should implicate the whole thickness of the parietes of the rectum, the advocates for the operation assert that the rectum may be turned inside out, and the whole of the disease brought into view, provided it does not extend more than an inch above the anus. When all the coats of the bowel and some of the adjoining cellular tissue are involved, the surgeon, after making the semilunar incisions, and detaching the end of the bowel, at the whole of its circumference, is to pass his forefinger into the bowel in order to serve as a guide for a pair of strong straight scissors, with which the gut is to be divided parallel to its axis, tlir iugh its entire thick- ness, and as far as the limits of the disease. This incision is to be inclined towards the posterior wall of the bowel, so as to be further from the vessels and the peritoneum. The latter cut enables the surgeon to unfold the gut, and expose the disease through its whole extent; but if it should be con- cealed by the hifimorrhage, a sponge, full of cold water, must be held for a few niiiuiles on the wound, for the purpose of stopping the flow of blood ; and the lower portion of the rectum is to be kept downwards with hooks. In operating on a female, the assistant's finger introduced into the vagina, will be of service. When the patient is a male, it is prudent to intro- duce a catheter into the bladder, which sliould be entrusted to an assistant. The surgeon then pro- ceeds to dissect away the cancerous parts, which is difficult and tedious, epecially near the vagina and urethra. Every vessel that bleeds copiously should be at once secured. Thus M. Lisfranc has removed portions of the rectum extending upward from one to three inches from the anus. If the hasmorrhage is not entirely commanded by ligatures, a sponge dipped in cold water is to be applied. M. Lisfranc, fearful of exciting inflam- mation, is never in a hurry to plug up the wound; and, whenever he is compelled to resort to this proceeding, he discontinues it in a few hours. He employs superficial dressings, and changes them thrice a day, so as to let the pus be discharged ; but, as soon as all risk of inflammation is past, he introduces a thick roll of charpie into the rectum, and advises the patient to continue to wear it for some time after the cure. This usually takes place in the course of two or three months. " The func- tions of the rectum are preserved ; a new mucous canal becomes a substitute for the portion removed ; and a ring, in the form of a sphincter, capable of retaining the faecal matter, if it be not liquid, is produced from the muscular fibres of the rectum, and perhaps also from the insertion of the levator ani." (See /. F. Malgaigne, Manuel de MLd. Opir. p. 591-592 ; ed. 2.) [Excision of the lower extremity of the rectum, as above described, is, in this country at least, now entirely abandoned. The only cases in which any operation of the kind is admissible are those of epi- thelial cancer, commencing at the anus and ex- tending only a limited distance into the rectum. Several such cases are mentioned by Mr. Curling, in which the disease was completely removed, and did not return. These cases show that a con- siderable portion of the sphincter muscle may be excised without seriously weakening the retentive power of the anus, or contracting the orifice so as to produce any important impediment to the pas- sage of the stools. (See Curling on Dis. of tlie Rechim, vol. iii. p. 154 ) In these cases onlj' a portion of the circuujference of the bowel was im- plicated in the disease. The incisions should be made in the healthy structures beyond the limits of the disease, and the greatest care should be taken to insure the complete removal of every portion of it. Bleeding vessels should be secured, if possible, with the ligature ; or, if there is much difiiculty in getting at them, the actual cautery may be used with advantage. The writer has recently removed a growth of this kind from the neighbourhood of the anus, extending about an inch within that aperture. It was distinctly circumscribed, and admitted of complete excision without difiiculty ; but deep incisions were found necessary, and one-half of the sphincter required to be taken away. When the wound healed, the power to retain the foBces was found to be but slightly interfered with. No vessels required a ligature. In some cases of cancer, the obstruction is so complete that the life of the patient is in innnc- diate danger, and the question will then arise as to the propriety of opening the bowel above the obstruction. Of late years the operation of colo- tomy has been practised somewhat frequently iu