NOSE, HvPERTROPHy, or Lipoma op tiik. Tlie growth, or enlargement, seems to be restricted to the skin and subjacent cellular tissue. These textures become thickened ; and " the sebaceous crypts are enlarged and distended with their Secretion, some of them to a considerable degree, and forming encysted tumors of the size of a garden pea ; the cellular tissue is loaded with serosit3', and, in some places, there is fibrinous deposit. The arterial capillaries are not much enlarged ; but when the part is dependent, or the circulation much excited, or the return of blood prevented by violent exertion of the lungs, the veins are much enlarged, giving the tumor a more blue and distended appearance. Ditferent parts become affected in succession, and tlie mass is made up of many growths from the point and sides, of various sizes, separated by fissures, in which the sebaceous secretion, often rancid and offensive, lodges. These swellings, though attached by pretty broad bases, are loose and pendulous." (See Liston on Pract. Surgery, p. 237.) In some instances, the tumor has been known to e.xtend over the mouth and nostrils so much, that the patient could not breathe well, especially during sleep, unless a tin tube was placed in one of the nostrils. If the tumor were not sup- ported with the hand, it also became immersed in any liquid that was brought towards the mouth to be drunk. (See Hey's Stirgery. ed. 2. p. 565.) In one of ^the cases, under this last practitioner, . the disease appeared to be^ nothing more than an enlargement of the common integuments of the nose. The bones and cartilages seemed to be in their natural state. For, though the latter were buriedj in the mass, yet, when the tumor was supported, Mr. Hey could distinctly trace, with his finger, the border of the cartilages. The tumor was divided in the middle ; and, at the origin of this cleft, he could discern a small por tion of the tip of the nose. The sebaceous crypts were so much enlarged, that some of Jhem would admit the end of a crow's quill. Mr, Hey ope- rated as follows :—Having felt, with his finger, the border of the cartilaginous part, which gives the nose its proper figure, he marked out this bor- der upon the inferior surface of the tumor with a pencil moistened with Indian ink. Then, allow- ing for the thickness of the ciirtilage, and a proper covering of adipose membrane, he made his first incision parallel to the line marked out. He next pursued the dissection upwards, aiming at preserving the natural figure of the nose. When the principal mass had been removed, he reduced the remaining part of the adipose substance to an even surface by means of the tonsil scissors. The hfemorrhage, which was considerable, was stopped during the operation by the pressure of the fingers of the assistants. The patient, though a stout man, nearly fainted from the loss of blood ; but, after the completion of the operation, the bleeding did not return. The case succeeded perfectly. I have seen the operation performed in one or two instances by Mr. Liston. The following is the method preferred by him. " An incision should be made through the diseased integument and cellular tissue in the mesial line upon the cartilage of the apex and columna, not however so as quite to reach them. An assistant places his forefinger in one nostril, and the surgeon, seizing the mass with his fingers, or with a small vul- NOSE. ' sellum, proceeds to dissect it off with a scalpel. The nicismns must be carried pretty close to the cartilages of the ala, until the one side is cleared the edge of the opening being well observed, and neither that, nor the cavity encroached upon The assistant will give warning if the knife, at any stage of the proceeding, approaches his finger. The surface is trimmed a little, if occasion re- quires, with a pair of thin slightly curved or knife-edged scissors. A similar proceeding is observed on the opposite side, and they (tho^'two sides) are to be made as symmetrical as possible. A few vessels may bleed ; but the bleeding is easily restrained during the dissection, by placing the small spring forceps (Graefe's) upon their mouths, or they are compressed by the point of the finger. Ligatures are afterwards placed upon them if they still persist in bleeding. Should the ligatures not hold, the cut ends (of the vessel) not being readily drawn out from the condensed tis- sue, a fine cambric needle may be passed across the bleeding point, and a ligature tied under it, the ends of both the needle and thread being cut off. Any troublesome general oozing may be stopped by plugging the anterior nares, applying a compress of lint, and a double-headed roller. Difiiculty and pain are experienced in removing this dressing, and, it is much better, if possible, to apply frequently and assiduously for a few hours, pledgets of lint, moistened with cold water, and' after coloured discharge has ceased, to substitute the tepid dressing, and thus encourage suppuration as speedily as possible." The exposed surface having granulated, the zinc lotion may be used. Mr. Liston has removed many of these growths' without any untoward accident. In only a single case, a repetition of the operation became neces- sary after an interval of nine or ten years A tumor of large size had been removed from the apex of the nose, leaving the integuments of the alai slightly thickened. These afterwards increased so as to form a bulky swelling on each side of the apex. (See Liston's Practical Surgery, p. 240.) See also Civadier, in Mhn. de I'Acad. de c'ldr. X. ill. p. 511. Imhert Delonncs, New Progress of Surgery in Frmice ; translated by T. Chaventac 4to. Lond. 1801. Nose, Hjemohiihage prow. Epistaxis. In consequence of the bleeding being sometimes'pro- fuse, and incapable of being stopped by other means, it becomes necessary to plug up the nostril and corresponding posterior opening of the nasal fossa. A loop of wire, or a bougie, may be intro- duced along the floor of tlie nostril from before backwards ; and when it reaches the pharynx it may be taken hold of with a pair of forceps and brought forwards in the mouth, so as to allow a strong ligature to be attached to it, which is iie.-tt drawn into the nasal fossa, and out of the nostril' by means of the wire, or bougie. This now becomes useless, and may be cut off. To the middle of the ligature, a dossil of lint is fastened, and the ligature being then drawn more out of the nostril^ fixes the lint in the posterior aperture of the nares. The nostril itself is then to be closed with a plug of lint. The dossil of lint may easily be removed from the posterior opening, when no longer required, by displacing it with a probe introduced through the nostril, and the aid of the portion of the ligature in the mouth. This part of tjie ligature phyuld bQ kept agniijDt the roof of