NEURALGIA, 348 •to indicate that there was some disease in tlie brain, and the suspicion wns confirmed soon afterwards by the occurrence of epileptic fits, from wliich the patient continued to suffer during the few remaining years of his life." (Op. cit. p. 6.) [In such cases, however, the nem'al-fia is due to direct pressure, or irritation about llie roots or origins of the nerves. But should no cause of irritation manifest itself in the course of the aii'ected nerve, it is verj' probable that a careful examination in the neighbourhood of other nerves, prone to neuralgic affections when irritated, will result in tlie discovery of the cause of the pain. The neuralgia is then called rrjleiv, indirect, or re- mote, to distinguish it from the direct or peripheral neuralgia first described.] Caries of a tooth may give rise to direct neuralgia, that is of the dental nerve implicated ; or the impression may, as it so often is, be reflected to one or other of the superficial branches of the fifth pair of nerves. The same cause, dental caries, may give rise to still more re- mote neuralgia. Two cases are, for instance, given by Parsons,* of pain in the arm resulting from a decaj-ed tooth. Sciatica lias been found due to the same cause, by Dr. Castle, of New York.f The teeth when decayed are indeed most fruitful sources of neuralgia, so that oftentimes patients have sacrificed many sound teeth to get rid of the pain really due to some other cause. Thus, pressure from a small tumour on the scalp may give rise to tic douloureux,t and the writer has found sciatica due to simple pressure from a small tumour imbedded in the flexor muscles behind the femur; a neuroma of one nerve may cause indi- rect neuralgia of another nerve. {Gay.') Neuralgia may affect different nerves alternately. Thus Sir B. Brodie (who had also observed neuralgic aff'ections to alternate with insanity) gives the case of a gentleman who laboured under severe pains in the left side of the face, a kind of tic douloureux. While under the influence of this pain, he was suddenly seized with a pain in the calf of the left leg, having precisely the character of that in the face. When the pain in the leg attacked him, that in the face abated, so as to cause little or no inconvenience ; but in a few days, when the pain quitted the leg, that of the face returned with its usual severity. [Neuralgia of a sharp tic-tic nature may alter- nate with headache of a severe kind. The writer has had a case of this kind, in which the facial neuralgia or tic douloureux would last for twelve or more hours at a time, and occasionally be re- placed by a dull heavy pain or aching within the cranium. The patient was a lady, whose nervous system had been functionally weakened through repeated attacks of fever some time before.] • Sometimes an impression made on one part of the body will produce a nervous affection in a distant situation, whore no explanation of the fact can be afforded on the principle of the trunk of the nerves supplying such part being compressed or irritated. Thus disease in the liver produces a pain in the right shoulder, a disease in the heart pains in the back. Acidity of the stomach, or indigestible articles in it, have bepn_ known to cause pain in the foot, which subsided directly the cause was obviated. In one case a simihir symptom appeared to depend upon a stricture, and yielded as the latter gave wa)-. {Brodie, ib.) A curious form of neuralgia of the uln.ar nerve is mentioned by Dr. Pute'gnat, of Lunevilie, the attacks having for their exciting cause the act of micturition, as well as the desire to pass water. (Gaz. HM. de Med. ei Chir. 18C4.) One remarkable feature of these neuralgic diseases, adverted to by the same ex- perienced surgeon, is that they seem to be suspended during sleep. A patient suffering from the pains of tic douloureux in the face may, for a time, be prevented from falling asleep ; but if once asleep, his sleep is likely to be sound for many hours. [In severe cases, the pain will often wake the patient many nights in succession at the same hour.] Even when the patient is awake, the pains usually have intermissions, and occur in 'paroxysms. Tlie intervals of cessation, or abatement, vary in different cases from a few minutes to several hours, or even to several days. The pains in neuralgic affections are sometimes dull and wearying, but more frequently sharp, darting, or stabbing. Occasionally they are periodical, and then, as Sir B. Brodie notice.', quinine and arsenic, which would cure the inter- mitting fever, will also cure the intermitting pain. Neuralgia of the i;ice, from being often attended with twitches of the small muscles of the part, has received the name of tic douloureux ; which consists in severe attacks of pain, affecting the nerves of the face ; most frequently, the filaments of that branch of the fifth pair, which comes out of the infra-orbital foramen ; but sometimes the other branches of the fifth pair, and occasionally the numerous filaments of the portio-dura, which are distributed upon the face. Some doubt its ever being felt in the portio-dura. " An hospital patient of ours complained of it not only in the cheek, but in the course of the portio-dura from the stylomastoid foramen. We do not see why the disease should be confined to nerves of sensa- tion. Two or even all the three branches (of the fifth pair) are sometimes aftected, and the pain may extend even to the other side of the face. We have known it extend down the neck to the shoulder, and all along the inside of the arm to the ends of all the fingers and the thumb. Various nerves of the legs, arms, fingers, or toes are occasionally the seat of the disease ; and an intercostal, a lumbar, and even the spermatic nerve has been attacked. The pam may be con- fined to one nerve, or to it and its branches, may extend to other nerves in the neighbourhood, or at a distance ; or itmay aftect nerves at a distance from each other, simultaneously or successivcl.v, and change its seat backwards or forwards. The pain does not always shoot in the course of the nerve, but frequently in the opposite d.i-ection. (,T. Elliotson, in Cyclop, of I'ract. AM., art. N'curalyia.) * American .Tour, of Hied. Science, 1854. t Lancet, 1816. ? Ur. Hunt Oh the Treatment of Tic Douloitretur, 1854. [Neuralgia affects certain nerves, as well as cer- tain localities, more than it does others ; it like- wise affects certain parts of nerves more than other The superficial nerves of the body, as in are L-haps first pointed out by Vallei.v, are no. affected than tliose of deeper parts : tl-^ may be part explained, in that the cutaneous "«ves a * 4 l,o it and CO d, to nlmospherio more exposed to neat anu >• f 1 vw iis tudes of weather, cec. clmnees, to the Mtissiuiu^-^ j " " • i^iders that there are four points M. Vallei-t cons