832 URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. introduction of an instrument be attended with so much pain and distress to the patient, and keeps the passage in a state of irritation so great, that the intervals necessary for its subsidence are unde- sirably long. This treatment is, perhaps, one of the best that can be adopted. In putting it into exe- cution, a week or two of confinement within-doors must be reckoned upon by the patient. Having succeeded in carrying a catheter into the bladder, the next step is to fasten it by one of the several methods which are adopted. Few are better than that just described, or if preferred, it may be secured by tapes to a bandage passed round the waist. A little peg must be neatly fitted to the orifice of the catheter, for the purpose of pre- venting the constant escape of urine ; or a piece of india-rubber tubing may be attached to the end of the catheter. This instrument should not be per- mitted to project into the bladder, as its point may then injure materially the coats, and produce inflammation, or, at least, much distress. It is Iiorne much better, and for a longer period, when the point just reaches the neck of the bladder and requires to be pressed in for half an inch whenever the patient desires to pass water. Catheters which are not quite so long as those usually employed answer the purpose rather better, since the instru- ment lies more securely and more easily to the patient, when a short portion only projects from the external meatus. If the catheter is silver, the patient lies on his back, with the shoulders a little elevated, the knees raised, and inclining outwards. If it be of gum-elastic, which is generally much better borne, and is equally serviceable, he may lie in any position, and even sit up for a change. The length of time the instrument is permitted to re- mafn will depend much upon the ability of the patient to retain it. If necessary, we should alleviate irritation by giving opium by mouth, or suppository ; also by freely administering diluents, as bariey-water, rendered either alkalme or acid, as the case may require. If, however, the pani is severe after a few hours, it will be safer to with- draw it, and after resting a day or two the instiu- ment may again be tried. Sometimes an attack of orchitis results, as occa sionally happens also after the mere passage of a soimd, or its retention for a few minutes only. The cause must be iirst removed, and the alFection combated in the usual way. An attack of rigors may supervene within an hour from the introduc- tion of an instrument, in which case hot blankets and bottles should be applied to the body, and a full dose of opium given; if they then continue or become severe, it will be necessary to take out the catheter at once, although, especially if much ob- struction be presented in effecting its passage, i will be undesirable to remove it on account ot a slight attack of shivering, which may be only transient effect of that operation. Also, when the urine becomes deeply tinged with blood, as it sometimes does after forty-eight or seventy-two liours, it is advisable to remove the catheter, and discontinue the treatment for a few days. But all these are exceptional results. Gene- rally speaking there is little or no pain, and after the lapse of twenty-four or thirty-six hours, a punileut discharge is seen around the instrument, which soon becomes loose in the canal, and, if not properiy lied in, may readily slip out, allhoiiyh when first introduced it was firmly retained by the stricture. Speaking in general terms, for it will be obvious that no positive directions as to time can be given, in about thirty-six hours from the time of introduction it may be withdrawn and replaced by another a size or two larger, which will probably enter easily. If the discharge con- tinues profuse, and the urine flows by the side of the catheter, it may be again exchanged for a larger. Usually, however, after three or four days, it is prudent to let the patient rest awhile. A good-sized stream will most likely now be passed, accompanied by some smarting along the canal. He should be permitted to enjoy undis- turbed sleep for a night or two, after which the catheter may be again tied in for thirty-six or forty-eight hours more; the discharge will become again profuse, and the canal more patent. The exact time which it is desirable to carry on the process must depend upon the patient's gene- ral condition, the absence of symptoms of cystitis, and the progress made in dilating the stricture. Nos. 8 or 9 having been reached, as will probably be the case in a few days, the patient may be allowed to move about. The introduction of an instrument must now be regularly resumed, at first every day, and then every second or third day, in order to secure permanency in the results already obtained, gradually lengthening the inter- vals as before described, but not wholly discon- tinuing the use of the sound for a considerable period ; for it must not be forgotten that the sub- sequent tendency to contract is at first strong, although in this manner it may generally be ob- viated. The great secret of conducting continuous dilata- tion with ease to the patient, and with success, is not to increase materially the size of the elastic cathe- ters employed. Much augmentation of size when the catheter is changed is not necessary, and if insisted on often produces pain. I have found by experi- ence that the smallest catheter, say No. 1, if maintained in the stricture for a sufficiently long period, say five or six days, dilates it almost, if not quite as much, as if the instrument had been ex- changed for larger ones. It is the fact of the catheter being there, and not its size, which effects the dilatation of the stricture. It can scarcely be necessary to say much ot forcible catheterism for the treatment of stricture, except for the purpose of discountenancing all such attempts. Formeriy it was the custom among some surgeons to force a way through the opposing obstacle, either by means of a succession ot catheters rapidly following each other, or by one or two large conical sounds pressed with consider- able violence until some obstructing part gave way. Severe inflammation often followed these attempts, while false passages were very commonly pro- duced. Only a small proportion, indeed, oi the force employed was expended on dilatation of the stricture, most of it telling on the sides and sub- mucous connexions of the urethra, which were dragged downwards towards the bladder m these efforts. Hence, in order to supersede these clumsy and dangerous proceedings, various forms ot appa- ratus have been at difterent times devised to d. ate carefully, but efficiently, an obstinate stricture Among\hese is the plan by sliding tubes seNxral times applied both in this country and abroad during the last sixty or seventy years, but sys-