TUICIIIASIS, individimls that Deer Las ever seen the repeated and careful exlruction of the cilia effect a radical cure. (See Lehrc von den Aiiyciiki; b. ii. p. 1'2\.) Ill the iuskance of this form of the disease, which Scarpa met with, only tivo or three of the eye- lashes inclined against the eyeball, lie found, on turning the eyelid a little out, opposite to the situa tion of the i'aulty hairs, that he could not, indeed, completely put them in their natural position; but he saw that he could thus remove them so far from the cornea, that they would not rub against it, without altering the position of the eyelids so much as to occasion a perpetual discharge of the tears over the cheek. And as, in the patient alluded to, the skin about the eyelid was very tense, Scarpa made an incision with the back of the lancet, near the tarsus, three lines long, and took asvaya small piece of skin of the same length, but very little more than one line broad. When the cut heaJed, the operation was found to answer as well as the nature of the case would allow, though the cure was not complete. According to Mr. Guthrie, when chronic inflam- mation prevails, and there is a commcQcing but incomplete general inversion of the cilia, the cure of the inflammation will restore the conjunctiva to its natural state, and the cilia to their original direction, without any especial means being em- ployed for the cure of the beginning inversion; but, when these changes proceed too slowly, the nitric acid should be applied, and will always be found effectual. Indeed, in cases where the incurvation of the cartilage is slight, and the contraction of the angles moderate, Mr. Guthrie finds that such treatment will render another operation unnecessary. It should be ap-plied as follows: 1st. A small quantity of concentrated nitric acid is to be applied, by meajis of a piece of smooth solid wood, to the centre of the affected part of the lid, and rubbed along on an oval space, a little exceeding in length the part on which the inverted hairs are situated, and from three to four or six lines in width, according to the inveteracy of the disease. The part ought to be wiped dry, after the acid has been applied about ten seconds, in order to prevent any of it from getting into the eye. 2nd. The application of the acid is now to be repeated, care being taken that it approach the edge of the eyelid, and touch the parts immediately over the inverted eyelashes; and it is to be continued, or repeated a third, or a fourth time, until the contraction of the parts draws the hair from within outwards, or to their natural situ- ation; then the operation is completed, and the part ought to bo again perfectly dried. [If tlie turned-in eyehishes are scattered over the entire margin of the lid, and if for this or other reasons we determine upon their entire removal ; we must take great care to spare the mairgin of the tarsus so as to preserve its width as much as pos- sible and to keep its inner edge intact, otherwise obliieration and atrophy of the Meibomian glands, or thickening and distortion of the tarsus with ac- cumulation of the secretions of these glands, be- neath the skin along the margin of the lid, or cversion of the conjunctiva with irritating cicatrices or epiphora, if the lower lid was operated upon, may follow the operation. 77ie Operalimi.—In this and other operations on the eyelids, to avoid troublesome bleeding a com- pressorium forceps is applied. It should not be voi„ 11. tightened more than will suffice to stop bleeding, otherwise much inflammation or even sloughing of the lid may follow. This forceps being applied, the margin of the lid is split with a cataract- knife, so as to separate the skin, orbicmlaris muscle and eyelashes, their hair-follicles included, from the tarsus ; tiiking care not to wound the lachrymal canaliculi, nor to leave behind any eye- lashes or their roots, which latter appear as little black dots on the surface of the tarsus. The sepa- ration is carried to about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the lid, so as to remove all hair- bulbs. An incision, a quarter of an inch from the margin of the lid, and parallel to the first one, is then carried through the skin' &c. down upon the tarsus, and the parts including the hair-bulbs and eyelashes removed. No suture need be applied. The profuse bleeding is arrested by means of wet lint tied over the closed lids. The lint should be changed three times daily. The patient may go about. The wound will have united after two or three days. Eyelashes that may have been left behind, must, if irritating the eye, be extracted with the forceps.] Some new methods of performing the operation for the cure of trichiasis have been proposed by Mr. Crampton, Mr. Saunders, Dr. .Jaeger, Schre- ger, and Mr. Guthrie. With respect to that of Mr. Saunders, however, its novelty is denied by Graefe, who states that the practice is as old as the time of JEtius. The follo^wing is the account which Mr. Cramp- ton gives of his plan, which he tried in one in- stance with complete success. "Let the eyelid be well turned outwards by an assistant ; let the operator then, with a lancet, divide the broad margin of the tarsus completely through, by two perpendicular incisions, one on each side of the inverted hair, or hairs ; let him then, by a trans- verse section of the conjunctiva of the eyelid, unite the extremities of the perpendicular incisions. The portion of cartilage, contained within the in- cisions, can then, if inverted, with ease be restored to its original situation, and retained there by small strips of adhesive plaster, or perhaps, what is better, by a suspensorium palpebrfe, adapted to the length of the portion of the tarsus which it is intended to sustain, should one or two hairs be displaced without inversion of the tarsus." {Essay on ilie Entropeon, p. ho.) Mr. Travers informs us, that, in cases of a cir- cumscribed inversion, " produced by cicatrix from burn or wound," he has found Mr. Crampton'a method an effectual remedy. It is added, that the complete division of the conjunctiva and tarsal cartilage, including the inverted portion, and pa- rallel to its border, with the aid of sticking-plaster sometimes proved sufHcient. Mr. Travers also sees no objection to tlie entire removal of that portion of the tarsal edge which is incorrigibly in- verted from such a cause, especially when com- bined with a preternatural growth of cilia from the Meibomian border of the tarsus. {Synopsis, &.C. p. .356.) In one inveterate case, wiiich was not effectually relieved by the frequent extraction of the cilia, cauterising the edge of the tarsus, the excision of a slit of skin, and smearing the eyelid with concentrated sulphuric acid, as proposed by Helling {Iliifeland's Journ. St. 4, p. 115), Schre- ger, with a pair of curved scissors, cut out a trian- gular piece of Iho cartilage of the eyelid nt the 3 E