' SPINA similar case, twenty years of age, is reported in the Path. Sjc. Trans, vol. iii. p. 10. Spina bifida generally occurs during the latter months of foetal life, and, although rupture of the cyst soon proves fatal after birth, it is not neces- sarily so in utero; if it take place during parturi- tion the child is generally still-born, or speedily dies from convulsions in consequence of the sud- den removal of the pressure exercised by the fluid upon the brain.. Vinchon, in the Gazelle des llopitaiix, 1838, relates an instance where a large spina bifida opposed so complete an obstacle to the passage of the child during labour that he was compelled to puncture it, when delivery readily took place and the child lived fifteen hours after its birth. The causes of this disease are very obscure. Some authors are of opinion that it depends upon, and follows hydrocephalus: the fluid in that affection, gravitating from the cranium into the spinal canal, distends the meninges and projects as a tumor, separating the laminoe of the vertebras or preventing tlieir development. (Acrel, Mor- gagni.) Mechanical causes, whether the result of external violence, or of mental emotion on the part of the mother, have been considered to produce this deformity. (Hoffmann, St. Hilaire.) Cruveil- hier regards the malformation as due to an acci- dental adherence of the spinal marrow and its membranes with^the skin, in early foetal life, befoie the development or ossification of the laminae has taken place. Fisher classes the disease with those of the nervous system, and considers that the arrest of development in the spine is due to an imperfect or irregular development in the corre- sponding part of the medulla spinalis, and not to any special defect in the ossific process. (Land, ami Edin. Phil. Mag. and Journ. of Science, vol x. 18;J7.) Instances have been known of the same woman giving birth to two, or even more, children in succes- sion who were thus deformed,and Camper mentions a case of twins, both of whom had spina bifida.] If we draw our inferences from tiie cases and remarks, offered by most writers on spina bifida, we must regard the attempts to cure this disorder, by making any kind of opening into the tumor, as exceedingly perilous, and generally fatal. It is to be observed, at the same time, that some practi- tioners have not altogether abandoned the hope of accomplishing a cure, at least in some instances. Mr. B. Bell, says, that if the tumor proceed from disease of the spinal marrow, or its membranes, no means of cure will probably ever be discovered. But, if the deficiency in the spinous processes of the vertebrse with which the disease is always accompanied, be the cause of the complaint, and not the effect of it as was commonly imagined; and if the collection of fluid take place, from the w.mt of resistance in the dura mater, in conse- quence of the imperfect development of the bones, Mr. Bell questions, whether it would not be proper to tie the base of the tumor with a ligature, lint merely with the view of removing the swelling, but in order to resist the propulsion of the cyst further outward. He acknowledges, that the re- sult of this practice must be considered as dubious; but expresses his wish to devise any plan that Would alford oven the least chance of success, in a case which must otherwise terminate in an unfa- vourable maimer. lie further stated his iiiten- BIFIDA. G07 tion of putting the method to a trial on the first opportunity, and after the detachment of the swel- ling on the outside of the ligature, he intended to keep a soft compress on the part with a proper bandage. It is objected to by the author of the article Spina Bifida in the EncyclopCdie Mulho- diqiie Part. Chir., because the disease is often at- tended with other mischief of the spinal marrow and brain, and the base of the swelling is almost always too large to admit of being tied at all, or not without hazard of dangerous consequences. [Ligature of the base of the tumor has been often practised, but always with a fatal result when the strangulation has been immediate; it is only adapted for those caseswhich are pedunculated, and even then is most hazardous. Beynard strangu- lated the pedicle by means of quills, placed on either side of it, and sutures which he gradually approxii-.iated;;in one instance with success. (Gaz. Mtd. de Paris, 1841, vol. ix. p. 573.) Dubois cured a patient by compression of the base of the swelling with a clamp: and a very similar case is related in the 14 th vol. of the Path. Soo. Trans. p. 214, by Dr. Wilson, which also terminated suc- cessfully.] Richter proposed the trial of two caustic issues at a little distance from the swelling; but I am not acquainted with any facts in favour of this practice. [This method of treatment has been tested, but found to be useless, as also have blisters to the tumor, frictions with stimulating applications, &c. The passing of a seton through the swelling was proposed by Chopart and Desault; this practice has been followed by others, but has long been abandoned as too dangerous. Excision is a simple and quick proceeding; it counts a few successful cases, but also a considerable proportion of fatal ones. Incision with a lancet has been tried, and in one or two instances the patients were cured, but the dangers attending it are too great to justify its adoption.] Mr. Abernethy first suggested the trial of a gentle degree of pressure on the tumor from its commencement, with the view of producing ab- sorption of the fluid, and preventing the further distension of the unsupported dura mater. Were the fluid to continue to increase, notwithstandino- such pressure, Mr. Abernethy thinks, that as death would be inevitable on the tumor burstin?, it might be justifiable to let out the fluid, by means of 3 puncture, made with a finely-cutting instru- ment. The wound is to be immediately afterwards closed with sticking-plaster, and, if possible, healed. Another accumulation of the fluid is then to be prevented, if possible, with bandages and topical applications. Mr. Abernethy actually made the experiment of a puncture in one hopeless instance in which, indeed, the swelling had just begun to give way. The puncture was repeated, every fourth day, for six weeks, during which time the child's health continued unafixicted. The wounds were regularly healtd; but the plaster having been rubbed off one of the punctures, the part ulcerated and the opening could not be healed; the discharge, from having been of an aqueous quality, became purulent, and death ensued. This case was un- favourable for the trial of the method, as the in- ti'guments covering the tumor were diseased, and had no disposition to contra t. [Sir Astley Cooper coiiiidered spina bifida as