230 LITHOTOiMY. with its blade. His favourite gorget is double- edged, the edges being turned downwards at an angle of 45°, and when used its beak is so placed that two-thirds of the incision of the prostate will be through its left side. However, as nothing can justify the exertion of great force in pulling out a stone, if the operator should be afraid of making the wound more ample (it being already large and direct), he must break the stone, as above described. As many of the fragments are then to be extracted with the com- mon lithotomy forceps as can be taken away by this method, after which the surgeon should introduce his finger, in order to feel whether any pieces of the stone still remain behind. Perhaps some of these may be most conveniently taken out with the scoop; but if they are very small it is best to inject lukewarm water with moderate force into the wound, for the purpose of washing them out. [There are many strong objections to this ancient mode of reducing large calculi to fragments. It is an operation of lithotrity performed under most unfavourable circumstances. When the calculus is very large, and the bladder hypertrophied or strongly contracted on the foreign body, it is nearly, if not quite, as difficult to seize the foreign body with the forceps passed through the prostate, as with the lithotrite introduced through the urethra; and the manipulations are just as likely to excite inflammation of the bladder in the one case as m the other. The necessity of a frequent introduc- tion of the forceps is also a strong objection; as is likewise the possibility of relapse from retained fragments—an accident much more likely to occur than when the lithotrite is employed, because the forceps can never reduce a hard stone into fine fragments. . The plan which the writer recommends is the following:—After the division of the left portion of the prostate and the withdrawal of the staff, he introduces the left forefinger as far as he can into the wound, carries along it the button-headed bistoury, and divides the right side of the gland in the same manner as the left. He has had recourse to this proceeding in two cases of large calculi with favour- able results.] An occasional embarrassment is the circumstance of stones in the bladder not being always free and detached; some are tightly embraced by its coats, others are partly engaged in the ureters: they are sometimes fixed in the neck of the bladder, and arc not unfrequently found lodged in sacculi ac- cidentally formed. These cysts are of diftereiit sizes : some arc small, and exist in a considerable number; some are deeper, with an orifice smaller than their base. They appear to be formed by a prolongation of the internal coat of the bladder; other sacculi are occasionally found, which seem to be composed of all the tunics of the bladder, and they are sometimes of such magnitude that the bladder appears as if it were divided into two or more cavities of nearly equal size, btones found in these sacculi sometimes present depres- sions and irregularities in which fungi ol the bladder have been received. When tins happens, a portion of such fungous productions is olten extracted with the stone; a circumstance that has deceived some practitioners, and led them to suppose that the calculi actually adhered to the coat of the bladder. (See DescadCs Farisian CInr. Jotirn. vol. ii. pp. 386, 387.) The extraction of encysted stones requires dif- ferent modes of proceeding from those which liave been related. Littre' conceived that they might be removed in two ways. When they made only an inconsiderable projection into the bladder, he recommended the introduction of a probe, with which the membrane covering the calculus was to be rubbed, a finger being put into the rectum in order to keep it down, and facilitate the action of the probe in opening the cyst. When the calculi were very prominent, Littrd recommended taking hold of them with a pair of forceps, and contusing and breaking the membranous pouch with the points and asperities upon the inside of the blades of the instrument. He conceived that suppura- tion would then destroy the internal parietes of the cyst, and that the stone would fall into the bladder and admit of being easily extracted. As Sabatier observes, it is plain that this theory, which is founded on the idea entertained by Littre' of the manner in which stones become en- cysted, is totally inadmissible in practice. Garengeot ventured to pass a bistoury into the bladder, for the purpose of disengaging a calculus lodged in a particular cyst at the fundus of this organ, behind the piibes. The knife had some tape twisted round the greatest part of its length, and was introduced under the guidance of the left index finger, which was passed in as far as it could reach. The patient was not more than ten or eleven years old, and consequently of a size which favoured the operation. The stone was loosened and taken out, and the child recovered. However, as Sabatier remarks, there are many instances in which this mode of proceeding cannot be imitated ; for, if the calculus should be in a sort of cul-de-sac, as often happens, the entrance of which is narrower than its bottom, and the stone be of considerable size, the incision cannot be made large enough, without risk of cutting through the whole thickness of the bladder, and producing death by cifusioa of urine in the abdomen. Other practitioners fancied that the calculus might be taken hold of with the forceps and turned about in difli;rent directions, so as to lace- rate its connections, or even that it might be forcibly extracted without any serious ill conse- quences. Houstet mentions (see Man. de VAcad. do Chir. t. ii. p. 307, &c., ed. 12mo.) that Peyronie adopted this method on a patient thirtj--one years of age. The calculus did not resist long, and its surface was found covered with ileshy subst.ances, which formed the adhesions to the bladder. The operation was painful, followed by considerable hajmorrhage, tension of the belly, hiccough, cold extremities, and death. There are some examples, however, in which this bold practice had better success. In 1730, Le Dran extracted from a woman an enormous stone, adherent to that part of the bladder which lies upon the vagina. The irritation oi the in- equalities of the stone had produced ulceration of the bladder, and fungous growths, which in- sinuated themselves into the substance of the extraneous body. The adhesions readily yielded, and the excrescences came away witli the cal- culus. Ten days afterwards, some thick mem- branous sloughs were voided. This calcdus is engraved in Le Dran's Treatise on the Opera- tions.