826 URETHRA, STB JCTURE OF. a very temporary palliative in dilatation. These phenomena seem to arise from elasticity in the materials of the constricting tissue itself, which appears to possess almost the mechanical properties of india-rubber. The urine itself also exhibits a tendency to change, which becomes more marked in proportion aa the case advances without relief being afforded. Owing to the retention of a portion of urine in the bladder, from a deficiency of power on the part of the organ to empty itself, partial decomposition of the secretion follows, which in consequence irri- tates the mucous membrane with which it is in contact; and thus urine, cloudy, emitting a pun- gent ammoniacal odour, and depositing, a? it cools, a quantity of pus and mucus, the products of in- flammation of the bladder, is not an unfrequent accompaniment of stricture. This is the origin of the slimy tenacious deposit found adhering to the bottom iind sides of the vessel containing it, and which is exceedingly characteristic. The urine is then alkaline, and usually deposits the triple phosphates. But in almost all cases some pus, however small in quantity, is present. Hsematuria is also one of the occasional concomitants of stric- ture, although it is rare, except in advanced disease of the mucous membrane of the bladder. As tiie case advances, attacks of complete re- tention become more frequent,leaving the stricture narrower than before. Tiie urine is at length discharged by drops, so that a stream cannot be said to exist; sometimes it passes away involun- tarily during the unconsciousness of sleep; and at length the patient loses the power to retain it altogether. This condition is often described, but not very correctly, as one of " incontinence." The symptoms on the contrary indicate that the bladder is distended, and that the surplus only runs off in the manner described, while the organ is constantly filled with the staler and more noxious portions of the uriue, unless it be fre- quently emptied by the catheter. Thus it is a state of engorgement of the bladder with urine rather than of incontinence. The extent of dul- ness on percussion over the pubes will indicate not only that this condition exists, but what is the size of the tumor formed by the distended viscus. Under these circumstances, disease of the bladder is increased, and disorganisation more readily induced both in it and in the urethra than before. Thus the occurrence of extravasation and the formation of abscesses are favoured. (See UaiNARY Abscess, etc.) Causes of Stricture.—Mo&t writers of eminence agree in considering organic stricture as the result of a previous inflammation of the urethra. Among these may be named Home, A. Cooper, Abernethy, C. Bell, Lawrence, Brodie, Liston, Civiale, and Leroy d'Etiolles. I have made some researches on the subject, and some years ago collected 220 carefully observed cases of urethral stricture, with the fuUowing results. Inflammation of the urethra, most commonly gonorriioeal, was the chief and prominent cause. Next came injuries producing traumatic stricture ; these were usually blows on the perineum, occasioning rupture or bruising of the canal. Cicatrices following chancres at or near to the orifice of the urethra were not im- frequently causes. Caustic injections also, when producing inflammation; tlie judicious employment of weak astringent solutions, on the other hand, in controlling and subduing inflammation, may cer- tainly be regarded as prophylactic against stricture. In some few cases the affection has appeared to be ' almost congenital ; that is, a strong disposition to discharge and inflammation of the urethral mucous membrane has been observed from childhood. Spasmodic Stricture.— It is an open question whether any temporary narrowing or occlusion of the urethra, which is not due to a permanent deposit of organised material, in and around the passage, should be comprehended under the term stricture^ It has been the custom, however, to use the term spasmodic stricture to denote tem- porary narrowing caused by abnormal muscular action, and hence the term has still been employed here. These cases are certainly very rare, and the student will do well to bear in mind that the great majority of cases of stricture consist in organic and permanent obstruction to the passage, and very few in mere muscidar spasm. Further, that there are many instances of difficult or im- peded micturition which are not due to stricture at all, and which may be erroneously regarded as the effect of spasm. Thus, many are caused by enlarged prostate gland (see Prostate Gland, Diseases of); others are due to inflammation of the urethra; others to want of tone or power in the bladder to empty its contents ; in some the cause is calculus in its interior; and in some the difficulty is due to tumor, or to other affection of the viscus itself. All authorities, however, have recognised the fact that, any degree of organic stricture existing, the urethra is liable to be the subject of variation in its calibre from two complicating circumstances; viz. muscular contraction, and inflammatory action. And these two act conjointly, not often altogether alone. It is the former which we have novv to consider. John Hunter believed muscular action of the urethral muscles sufficient in some few cases to occasion retention of urine {O.i the Venereal, 2nd edit. p. 229). Sir B. Brodie says,—" Instances are not wanting of persons who have been for a considerable time liable to oc- casional attacks of retention of urine from spas- modic stricture of the urethra, although in the intermediate periods there was no perceptible diminution of the stream of urine, and hence we are justified in the conclusion that a spasmodic stricture may exist independently of any actual organic disease. At the same time it must be acknowledged that tlje existence of a purely spas- modic stricture is of rare occurrence." {Urinai-y Orga?is, 4th edit. p. 6.) Modern anatomical researches, especially those of KoUiker and Mr. Hancock, have established the fact that the whole urethra is surrounded by muscular tissue, which may have some share in accounting for the spasmodic action referred to. But the main seat of such narrowing is, un- doubtedly, the membranous portion which is habitually closed by the voluntary muscles of the part (constrictor urethra;), and which may be more firmly closed under the influence of irritation, either direct or reflex, so as to produce the ab- normal obstruction denominated spasmodic stric- ture. The treatment must depend mainly on the cause which has occasioned the obstruction. If the urine is unduly ncid or irritating, or loaded with lithates, we should act without delay on the liver and bowels; administer diluent drinks, small