TR away from the part which they are designed to coiii[iress. Sometimes they slip downwards, and this, in fat subjects, is generally caused by the pro- jection of the abdomen. Occasionally the fault consists in the instrument becoming displaced in the direction upwards, which mostly happens in thin persons, aaid is produced by the flatness of the abdomen. In the first case, the displacement is to be prevented by the u«e of an elastic scnpulary; in the second, the slipping of the pad upwards is to be prevented by the employment of a thigh strap. When a patient is afHicted with a rupture on each side, the twa protrusions may be very well kept up by means of a single truss, made with two pads, which are joined together, at the exact distance of the rings from each other, by a piece of steel, applied over the convexity of the symphysis of the pubes, and proportioned in length to the space between the two openings through which the viscera descend. la such cases, however, it is absolutely necessary to have the spring stronger than if there were only one rupture. The truss should also be put on that side of the body upon which the hernia most difficult to retain is situated. Some practitioners, however, give the preference to the use of two single trusses joined together in front and be- hind with suitable straps. [The truss invented by Mr. Coles, winch in addition to the usual steel spring has also a spring in the pad, may faiily be considered as an im- provement on the ordinary truss. M. Bourjeaurd has succeeded in combining with hi-s elastic web- bing, fitted exactly to the thighs and around the pelvis, india-rubber air-pads, which are placed and fixed over the site of the hernial protrusions, and in some cases this method may be found prefer- able to a spring truss.] The fullowing remarks are contained in the American edition of this work. " Our profession is very largely indebted to Dr. Amos G. Hull, of New York, for the valuable service he has rendered the cause of humanitj-, as Y.-ell as the science of surgery, by the indefatigable labours and persevering ingenuity which he has devoted to this interesting department of chirurgery. After experiencing in his own practice the defects of the various kinds of trusses ordinarily employed, and suffering the inconveniences of which surgeons and patients have so long complained, he was in- duced to attempt the construction of an instrument which should fulfil the surgical indications in the treatment of reducible hernia; an object which seemed to have been ovoilooked by previous in- ventors, and to accomplish which /v knowledge of the anatomy of the parts and the mechanical oper- ation of the truss was alike indispensiblo. "Dr. Hull brought to this subject a mechanical genius of more than ordinary acuteness, and, at the same time, an intimate and accurate knowledge of the intricate subject of hernia itself, and succeeded in constructing an instrument which is not only applicable to ever)' species of rupture to wliich a truss is adapted ; but, in recent cases, and young children, is fully adequate to elfect a radical cure, as proved by experience and attested by the leading surgeons of the present day. " Dr. Hnll claims for himself the merit of ac- complishing the true indications in the surgical treatment of reducible herni;^, by the four following distinctive peculiarities embracid in the truss, viz. USS. 789 " 1st. The concave internal surface of llie ruptura pad, from its pressure being greatest at the circum- Jereiwe, tends constantly to approximate the hernial parietes, affording them rest and mechanical support. "2d. Tlie combined hinge and pivot mode of connection between the spring and pad, by means of a tenon and mortice, so constructed as to preserve a double hinge and limited joint acting in every direction, thereby seouring the uniform pressure of the spring on tlie pa 1, and sustaining the same nice coaptation of the pad and rupture opening, as well under the varied ordinary muscular actions as when the body is in a recumbent posture. " 3d. The graduating power and fixture of the pad to the spring, rendering, as will be readily perceived, the condition of the pad perfectly con- trollable, even to nameless minuteness. Also re- sulting from this mechanism is the advantage of accommodating a large truss to a small person; hence the facility of supplying, without disappoint- ment, persons at a distance. 4th. The double inguinal truss, being simply the addition of another pad attached to a short elastic metallic plate: this plate with its pad move on the main spring by the same power of adjustment and fixture as the first pad,the pressureof the padsbeing graduated at pleasure by an interveningcork wedge. "■ In the article IIernia I have hinted at the importance of a eoncavc rupture pad, instead of a convex one, so universal, and once thought in- dispensable. It is no marvel that so few radical cures were ever known by the truss, when the con- vex pad of the instrument was fitted to the mouth of the rupture^ thus enlarging the hernia opening. By this instrument the-elevated circular margin of the-concave pad ia made to approximate the°sides of the hernial opening, closes the aperture, and hence results in a permanent cure of the disease. I have known many instances o-f radical cures by this instrument, and in some of them, the truss has bee-n laid aside for several years without thesmallest return of tlie disease. It is to the interest of the profe-ssion universally to become acquainted with this in-strument, and to profit by its superiority." , Reese. With respect to the application and use of trusses, tlie following instructions merit attention. 1. A truss should never be first applied or changed except when the patient is in the horizontal posture, and unless it is known with certainly that all the contents of the rupture are completely reduced. 2. The first applications of a truss should ba made under the superintendence of the surgeon himself ; and care should be taken to put on the instrument in such a manner that the pad will compress tlie neck of the hernia sac; and with this view, if the hernia be of tlie oblique inguinal kind the chief pressure should be made over the situation of the internal ring and the course of the inguinal canal; when, on the other hand, the case is a direct inguinal hernia, the pad should make pres- sure exactly on the external abdominal ring. The patient should be made acquainted with the right manner of applying the truss; the principles on which it keeps up tlie bowels, and affords a chance of a radical cure; the requisite cautions to be ob- served, &c. When he begins to wear a truss lie should be particularly careful not to bo guilty of. imprudent exertions, and he ought to observe most attentively that the iuBtruinent docs not slip IVoiu,