none can be absorbed, we should be led to expect, a priori, that the urine would be very little in quantity. We have, then, rational grounds for believing that in cases of constipation, where the urine is very deficient in quantity, the obstruction is probably at the upper part of the canal; and that where it is abundant, at the lower." In re- ference to the above explanation, Dr. Brinton says —" I should substitute for it on grounds strictly pathological, at least three or four contingent causes; among which suppressed or restricted ab- sorption by the bowel would find but a very subor- dinate place. That it has no share in causing such a diminution of urine would be a hardy assertion. But contrasting the copious vomiting seen in some of these cases with the moderate ingestion of fluid often accompanying it, and with the enormous quantity of liquid further found distending the bowel after death, it does seem to me that the eft'usion of such vast quantities of liquid from the affected tube constitutes by far the most obvious and simple cause for a diminished secretion of urine, especially when viewed by the light derivable from the analogous diminution seen in Bright's disease and Asiatic cholera, in which we mny often notice the same mucous surface acting vicari- ously to the kidney, on the one hand, and depriv- ing it, by a similar process of effusion and expulsion of the watery materials which conditionate its function, on the other hand." Prostration and Anxiety of Countenance.—These constitutional indications of local lesion will be severe in proportion as the obstruction is situated near to the upper end of the intestinal tube, and consequently in proximity to the solar plexus. A similar effect is often produced in cases of strangu- lated umbilical hernia, and probably for a similar reason. Also, the tighter the stricture is the more firmly are the filaments of the sympathetic nerve compressed, and probably in an equal ratio will prostration ensue. Obslructions in the Large Intestine.— The symp- toms indicative of sudden mechanical obstruction in the course of the small intestine, are more or less common to obstructive disease of the larger bowel, but in the latter case they are usually less severe in their character, though not less sure to present themselves, if sufficient time be afforded to fulfil their anatomical requirements. Constipation is of course decided; wndting sni extreme distension set in after the lapse of days rather than of hours; the vomiting being later in its appearance by reason of the greater length of tube which must be filled before that peristalsis can produce the backward current already referred to. For instance, in a case recently in the London Hospital,in which constipation had existed nineteen days, and where the obstruction was believed to be at the upper part of the rectum, sickness had oc- curred once only, and then after a dose of croton oil. Mr. Adams performed Amussat's operation upon this case on December 4, l!j(il, and relieved the constipation. The distension at length becomes excessive, partly from muscular fatigue and relaxa- tion, and partly in proportion as the whole or por- tion of the large as well as small intestine become occupied by gases. The pain is rarely severe, while the passage of these gases to and fro through the more or less fluid contents of the large intestine is appreciated by the patient, and will often assist the practi- INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS. ~ gg tioner to recognise the scat of obstruction. In some instances, the abdominal wall being thin, the sacculi of the distended transverse colon may be recognised by palpation, while percussion may enable us to detect, by the varying sounds which it elicits, the local obstruction. Thus, supposing the seat of stricture to be in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, the larger bowel may be distended and re- sonant up to or near to the left iliac region, while that region itself yields a didl sound on percussion, from the detention of solid and fluid matters above the seat of stricture. Dr. Brinton is of opinion that fluctuation of the fluid contents of a distended bowel, may sometimes be detected. If so, it would be local, and distinguishable from general peri- tonitic effusion. Diagnosis.—The above described symptoms refer generally to obstructive bowel disease ; but, in order that treatment may be at all appropriate to any particular instance, the practitioner must enlist other assistance in his service, and in contemplat- ing a case of obstinate constipation should endea- vour to reply to the question, ivhere is the obstruc- tion seated ? Let hira ascertain, whether or no the patient be the subject of external hernia, and if he be, what is the normal condition of that hernia, and if any alteration have taken place in it, whether or not the alteration and onset of the symptoms of obstruction have any relation in re- ference to cause and effect. Should strangulation exist, the course to be adopted is evident. But, to the enquiry, are you ruptured ? an answer in the negative should not sufBce; a careful manual ex- ploration must be instituted of all the regions, common and uncommon, in which hernia taay oc- cur, and this exploration is more absolutely neces- sary in the case of females, who, from timidity or delicacy are induced sometimes to make a false statement. The case of Queen Caroline, consort of George IL, is a remarkable instance. Failing to detect an external strangulation, the pathological history of the patient must be interrogated wfth a view to determine the cause of the symptoms. Thus early age will suggest the possible presence of intussusception ; a previous dysentery or peritc- nitis will indicate false bands of organised lymph or a glueing together of the abdominal contents' provided that there be little distension; a severe' but perliaps short illness, attended by excruciatiiio. pain in the region of the liver with or witliou°t jaundice, will suggest the presence of a gall stone These are some of the many sources of obstruc- tion in the small intestine. A comparison be- tween the present and past state of health in reference to the possible presence of malir-nant disease leading to stricture, probably of the colon at some point, and if so, tlie nature of the alviiie evacuations lately passed, must be enquired into, while the condition of the rectum and its relation to other organs is ascertained by a careful digital examination. Any unnatural discharge from the rectum should be examined by the microscope These and a few others are sources of obstruction in the largo intestine. Having thus thoroughly examined every feature of tlie case, both as exhib- ited by the condition of the patient and his past history, the piactitioner arrives at the conclusion that one or other form of obstruction is present but he cannot determine precisely its etiology. ' Prognosis.—The probable termination of a case of obstinate constipation, so wrapped in obscurity