Denonvilliers, Dieffenbach, and Langenlieck, have ilone much to perfect the details of rhinoplasty, biephaniphisty, stapiiyloraphy, cheiloplasty, and liare-lip operations. Fergusson in this conntry, and Vinson AVarren in America, may be said almost to have created pleiiranoplasty. Roux and Graefe disputed the honour of introducing stapiiyloraphy in IfilO', but the success of Roux has found few imitators in France; and wliile Fergusson and Pollock have rendered it one of the most common and successful of operations here,it has almost died out in France, from the frequency of failure amongst French surgeons. A reparative operation equally new and important id perinaeoraphy, of which the lionour belongs to Fricke of Hamburg, Roux in Paris, and Baker Brown in London. James Lane has introduced some valuable modifications, and this operation is, in his hands, one of the most brilliant and successful in surgery. For vesico- vaginal fistula, utero-vesical fistula, &c., we owe success mainly to the genius of Marion Sims, whose speculum, metallic sutures, and general sur- gical inventions have removed these distressing and formerly irremediable affections into the class of those which are perfectly and rapidly curable. From restorative we may pass to conservative surgery. And here the greatest advances have been made, and mainly by British surgeons. The practice of resecting joints was due to White of Manchester, and Park of Liverpool. It remained an exceptional operation until the striking successes of Jones of Jersej', the brilliant and persevering labours of Feri^nsson, Syme, Butcher, Hancock, and other British surgeons established resections of the great joints as among the most valuable operations in surger}-, to the great saving of life and limb. In the most severe forms of hip and knee- joint diseases these conservative procedures are eminently successful. In traumatic injuries, espe- cially in gunshot wounds, the results are equally sa- tisfactor)'. Esmarch, Stromeyer, Lnngenbeck, Long- more, Macleod, Muir, Blenkins, Williamson, and others have rendered great services to this depart- ment of surgerj'. The snccess of our British surgeons in the Crimea was by far greater than that of the French, as is recorded in the great work of Ciienu, and by Legouest, Baudeus, and others. For the treatment of tumors of the jaws partial resec- ti'ms have been introduced with equal success by Fergusson (following Lizars and Gensoul), who has greatly simplified and improved the incisions and the mode of excising the bimes. The principle of preservation has led to the aban- donment of " places of election" fur amputation, and to the adaptation of methods of operation by various flaps to all parts of the limbs. Among the great and permanent improvements in surgery is to be reckoned Syme's operation on the ankle- joint, which gives a result unequalled by any other proceeding. This tlie experience of the American ■war has amply confirmed. Trale of Leeds, and Garden of Worcester, have successfully modified our flap-operations. l^issiiig to special operations, we must speak only briefly of strabotomy, due to Dieffenbach, studied with great care by Bonnet (who explained the relation of the muscles with the capsule of Tenon), and still further by Critchett and by Von Graefe. It is now admirably successful; and the use of appropriate glasses, such as Bonders has shown to be desirable to correct the optical defect 3ERY. 667 which frequently causes the deviation of the eye, tends to make the vision binocular, and the cure permanent. Bowman has greatly facilitated the cure of lachrymal inflammations, strictures and fistuIcB, by his method of dividing the canaliculi, to which Weber has added, with advantage in some cases, the subcutaneous division of the tendo oculi, which facilitates the catheterisation and topical me- dication of the naso-lachryraal duct. Graefe, by his operation of iridectomy, has enabled us to transfer acute glaucoma to the list of remediable diseases. The extraction of cataract is being actively studied with a view to the improvement of the methods of extraction. Linear extraction with iridectomy, has advantages for certain difficult cases, but in ordinary cases extraction under chloroform by the flap operation is so brilliantly successful as to leave little to desire. Reclination is abandoned (almost, and ought to be entirely). Discission is valuable for soft cataracts. The surgery of the ear has been reconstituted by Toynbee, Politzsr, and Von Troltsch. The catheterisation of the Eustachian tube, the pathology, diagnosis, and treatment of these diseases, has been studied anew; and not without good results, although they still remain among the least tractable. In the surgerj' of the air-passages, trachseotomy has become an ordinary operation, and its application to the treatment of certain diseases and accidents determined. Here we are much indebted to Bretonneau and Trousseau. In strangulated hernia the chief progress has been made by Luke and Gay, who have shown that femoral hernia is sometimes strangulated by the fiiscia cribriformis, and that it is commonly not necessary to open the sac in order to restore its contents. The operations for artificial anus have been studied with good effect by Callisen, Amussat, and Curling (for adults) in the" lumbar region, and by Litire', and Holmes-(for infants) in the groin. The surgery of the genito-urinary organs owes its greatest progress to Civiale and Heurteloup, who may be said to have created lithotrity (1820- 32), and to have since brought it to great perfection. Except for the perfection of instruments by Weiss and by Henry Thompson, little has been done else- where to improve this operation; although it has been studied with great skill and success, and valuable rules laid down for its performance by British surgeons, especially by Brodie, Coulson, Fergusson,and Henrv Thompson. It has, indeed' been more completely studied and more success- fully practised in England than in any part of the world. Strictures of the urethra are now treated by gradual dilatation, sudden or forci- ble dilatation, or by section. Syme, in ]iJ44 introduced external urethrotomy with a conductor- but, except in very severe cases, it is now rarelv practised. It is partly superseded by internal urethrotomy, if not by dilatation. Internal ureth- rotomy by Civiale's (or Maisoniieuve's) instru- ment, is a valuable resource: its effect is limited to the strictured part. Forcible dilatation by Holt's dilator, produces excellent results in very severe cases; but so also does slow dilatation. In neither case does the patient escape the tendency to sub- sequent contraction. The use of M. Segalas's " bougies h boule" has greatly facilitated the ex- ploration and diagnosis of strictures; and the soft polisiied French bougies are great improvements on the ordinary gum bougies still in use in Kiiglnnd. Amongst the most notable conquests of surgery