100 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS iojnose {nleslinale." This operation consists in opening the tube both above and below the obstruction on its free border, to the extent of an inch, and in uniting them by means of sutures. Thus a communication is established between the segments of bowel on eitlier side of the lesion. iNtlat07i, Elem. de Pathol. Chir. torn. iv. p. 402.) This operation appears to be the most dangerous of any yet recommended. . £nterolowi/.—Th\s term is usually associated with opening the colon in either loin, with a view to the formation of an artificial anus. The history of this operation dates from the time of Caliisen who says (Systema Chirurg. vol. ii. p. 688 :) " Qufe pioposita sub hoc rerum statu (imperfora- tionis ani) fuit incisio intestini creci vel coli^ de- scendentis, sectione in regione lurabari sinistra ad marginem musculi qiiadrati luniborum facta, ut anus paretur artificialis, remediura prffibet omnino incertum, atque hac operatione vix vita miselli servari poterit. Quanquam intcstinum m hoc loco facilius attingatur, quam supra regionem in- guinalem." There is no evidence to show that Caliisen himself performed this operation; but in 1839 Amussat proposed and executed a modifica- tion of Callisen's. In this, as in the previous operation, the intestine should be opened as near as possible to the seat of stricture, i.e. on the left Bide, should the rectum or sigmoid flexure be the seat of obstruction; on the right side, should the obstacle be beyond the ascending colon, but on the proximal side of the sigmoid flexure. , Choice of operation.' Amussat s and Caliisen s methods. ^ •/- • ; d ■ Amussat [Memoire sur VAnus Arlificiel. ir'aris, 1839) describes and draws a comparison between his own and Callisen's method, thus: " For Calli- sen's method the external border of the qiiadratus lumborum cannot be taken as a guide, as is commonly said, because it is not possible either to see or to feel this muscle through the integuments, and it is very difficult to cut exactly upon its outer border. Besides, this border is only exposed in its lower half. On cutting deeply, the latissimus dorsi, generally the external oblique, always the internal oblique, the transversalis, some vessels, the aponeurosis of the transverse, some nerves are divided, and at length one falls upon the fatty cellular tissue which covers the intestine, and then upon the bowel itself if it be dilated. Should it not be dilated, it must be sought for posteriorly under the quadraius lumborum. By my method the site for the opera- tion is more easily defined. The transverse inci- sion is made two fingers' breadth above the ilium; or better still, at the centre of the space comprised between the last false rib and the crest of the ilium. It should be begun at the external border of the erector spin8e,and be prolonged as far as tiie middle of the upper border of the i mm or indeed as far as the lateral line of the body, thus gn.ng it an extent of four or five fingers b^ead lumbar spines, the last false nb, ''"^ .'t''"^f °' the ilium, are the bony pomts, which may be taken as landmarks. Nevertheless th« the ilium is the safest guide ; and it may be a d that the transverse incinion ought to correspond to th. middle third of this bone. Af er having di- vided the skin and the superficial tissues, the deeper structures may be cut crucially, in oraei better to discover the intestine; by means ot tiie transverse incision the operation is performed in a large space from before backwards ; the external border of the quadratus can be readily raised and be incised, if necessary. ... By my method, the latissimus dorsi is divided transversely in the posterior third of the incision, and the external oblique in the two anterior thirds, the internal oblique and the transverse longitudinally and somewhat transversely; sometimes the quadratus, few vessels and nerves, the aponeurosis of the transverse muscle, then the fatty cellular tissue and the areolar tissue which immediately covers the intestine; at lengtli the colon itself is found." The conclusion drawn from the above comparison cannot but be accepted by us, and therefore in favour of Amussat's method. At the same time, Mr. Hilton gives the preference to Callisen's or to tiie longitudinal incision, and describes its perform- ance as follows {Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. xviii. 1853, p. 189): " If it be important, in cutting down upon the subclavian artery, to reco'-nise the omo- hvoideus and scalenus anticus muscles, so, in the operation of opening the colon in the lumbar region, behind the peritoneum, it is essential towards an exact and proper perfoimnnce of this operation that the surgeon should bring into view by his in- cision the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum. In a thin patient, the outer edae of the erector spinse muscle may be distinctly felt, as also may the apices of the transverse processes of the verte- brffi; and these signs will be sufficient guide to the position of the quadratus lumborum muscle. But in a very fat person, in whom neither of these points can be determined, it will be.necessary to draw a line parallel to the spinous processes, di- rectly downwards from the angle of the seventh, eighth, or ninth rib, across the costo-iliac space,_to the crest of the ilium. This line corresponds with the outer edge of the erector spina; and the apices of the transverse processes; and a measured inch from it outwards corresponds with the outer edge of the quadratus lumborum. I assumed that the quadratus lumborum might be about one inch wide, and therefore made a vertical incision nearly two inches long between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, extending nearer to the ilium than to the rib. One well-directed cut divided the skin and cellular tii^sue, the tendon of the internal obliqne muscle, and exposed the outer edge of the quadratus lum- borum". Two small arteries required ligatures. The last dorsal nerve lying across the upper part of the line of incision was divided. The trans- versalis abdominis muscle was divided vertically, to tlie extent of nearly two inches, parallel to the outer edTe of the quadratus lumborum; a consider- able quantity of loose lobulated fat was exposed, a nart of which was taken away, and the rest dis- placed by the blunt end of a director, in accordance with the direction of the original incision. An artery required to be ligatured at both ends, and then the intestine was clearly and perfectly brought into view, of a greyish pink hue, and somewhat buiging. A director and forceps cleared a portion ol the surface of the intestine of fat and areolar tissue to the extent of an inch at least. The intestine was now rendered more prominent at the bottom of the wound by the anterior part of the abdomen being pressed upon, so as to push the intestine towa ds he opening in the loin. A long curved needle, armed with silk, was passed through the intestine and then through tiio integuments at the point