SPINE, CURVATURES OF. 615 termed, Scoliasis, from crKo\i6a>, to make crooked, muy be defined as ii case of deformity, or contortion of the spine, in which tlie bodies of the vertebrEe de- viate liiteriiUy in a horizontal direction, with or without a corresponding deviation of the apices of the spinous processes. In many severe cases of sco- liasis the spina] column presents on its anterior as- pect a large sigmoid curve, whilst posteriorly very little deviation exists in the perpendicular line of the apices of the spinous processes; and in slight cases, whilst an internal curvature affecting the bodies of the vertebrse essentially exists, thei'e may be no external curvature or lateral deviation of the apices of the spinous processes. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OP CASES INCLUDED UNDER THE TERM " LATERAL CURVATURE OV THE SPINE " WEAK SPINES EXCLUDED. Now by the definition above given, it will be obvious that in speaking of lateral curvature of the spine, a condition is referred to necessarily asso- ciated with certain structural changes, and that there can be no curvature of the spine, how- ever slight, unaccompanied by such structural changes; iu other words, lateral curvature of the spine never exists merely as a functional condi- tion. According to the generally received opinion as to the mode of production of lateral curvature, this deformity is supposed to depend primarily and es- sentially upon muscular debility, with a lax con- dition of the ligaments of the spine; structural changes in the bones and intervertebral cartilages taking place only at a late period. There is no doubt that muscular debility frequently coexists with spinal curvature, as seen in young ladies from twelve to sixteen years of age, and that in such cases it may be regarded as largely contri- buting to the production of curvature, though not the only cause; but it is equally certain that la- teral curvature of the spine as frequently, if not more frequently, exists in individuals who do not exhibit any indications of muscular debility; and it is by no means uncommon to see this form of spinal distortion in girls, and also in boys of a healthy and robust appearance, associated with more than ordinary mu.scular strength. On the other hand, physicians and surgeons can hardly have failed to observe how frequently general muscular debility exists in very delicate boys and girls, often with a marked consumptive tendency, without any disposition to lateral cur- vature of the spine. It is certain that only a small percentage of such delicate children with feeble muscular power, ever become the subjects of lateral curvature. Of all the cases of lateral curvature which have passed under my notice, less than half of them have exhibited any marked indication of muscular debility. Something more than muscular debility, then, is required to produce lateral curvature of the spine, and the additional cause will generally be found either in some constitutional condition marked by an hereditary tendency to spinal curvature, or in the existence of some local cause acting mechani- cally so as to produce a long-continued irregular distribution of weight through the spinal column; or both of these causes may coexist with muscular debility. . In the description of lateral curvature of the spine, now given, let it be understood, then, as my intention to exclude a large class of cases fre- quently simulating lateral curvature, but which, I think, should be more properly grouped as a special series, and described as weak spines, or cases of threutencd lateral curvature. It is doubtless true, that of such cases a certain proportion will terminate in the formation of la- teral curvature, if this event be not prevented by proper treatment, and cases thus originating, will be included in my description of lateral curvature generally; but by many writers on spinal curvature, all such cases are absorbed into the class of la- teral curvature, of which they are described as tiio first stage, and hiagnilied into an undue importance. The result is, that they are very unnecessarily sub- mitted to a long course of treatment required only by cases of actual curvature. Proceeding now with the description of cases of undoubted curvature of the spine, let us first trace the EXTERNAL CHARACTERS IN CASES OP SINGLE CURVATURES IN DIFFERENT REGIONS, AND IN CASES OP DOUBLE CURVATURE. Several forms of lateral curvature of the spine as judged of by the more obvious external charac- ters, are generally described, the most frequent arrangement being into si7igle curves and douhle curves; the single curve generally existing in the lumbar, but sometimes in the dorsal region, and occasionally involving both the lumbar and dorsal regions; the double cm've generally consisting of a deviation to one side in the dorsal region, and a deviation in the opposite direction, i. e. the lum- bar region, so that one curvature compensates for the other with more or less mechanical ac- curacy. Triple curves, quadrvph and quinliiple curves are also described by those who aim at further re- finement. In reference to the division into sinyla and doid/le curves, it is only necessary to observe that anatomically it is impossible that any such condition as a single curve can exist in the spine, so long as the individual is able to maintain the equilibrium of the body and keep the erect posi- tion; at ea.h extremity of the so-called single curve, a return curve, or deviation in the opposite direction must take place, though this may not be very obvious externally; however, as we cer- tainly have the external appearance of single and double curves, and as the terms are well under- stood, there is some advantage in retaining them for descriptive purposes. Other writers more frequently speak o{primary and secondary curves, or as the latter are fre- quently called the consecutive and compensating curves, the secondary curve being supposed to take place after the primary curve, as a mechanical compensation for the latter; but I doubt whether it can rationally be inferred, or in any way de- monstrated by cases, that a second curvature takes place after the first is formed: to me it appears that both curvatures take place simultaneously, or very nearly so. It is evident that, as soon as a curvature begins to form, say in the lumbar region, the necessity for a second curvature immediately exists, for the purpose of maintaiinng the equilibrium of the body, and such a curve as quickly begins to form. The rate of increase, however, will vary according to a variety of circumstances, and ultimately the