1010 act on the supposition that the accommodation (the contraction of the ciliary muscle) i» still too strong. This is the result of habit, through the patient not having worn spectacles, or not tiie proper kind. The patient, although the spectacles remedy the latent hypermetropia, exerts the accom- modation too much. Vision thus becomes indis- tinct, and the book, to obviate this, is brought nearer and nearer. " The eyes ache " partly fruni undue contractiun of the ciliary muscle, partly from the effort which the internal recti muscles have to make to maintain the convergence of the eyes which is necessary for reading when the book is held too close. In such cases, we at first try spectacles with con- Tpx lenses; e.g. in manifest hypermetropia of 5^0' prescribe, instead of No. 20 convex, No. 30 con- vex, for reading. The spectacles are to be used for all near-work. The work should be inter- lupted frequently, to rest the eyes, and also as soon as, through vision becoming indistinct, the desire arises to bring the work nearer to the eyes. In this way the action of the ciliary muscle—the accommodation—is gradually regulated. "We give stronger lenses and proceed as directed above as goon as near work can be performed without fatigue. Such cases appear to recover more rapidly •when wearing the spectacles at first continually, assisting the efforts of accommodation at all dis- tances. Myopia ( = M.) (Short-sight. Brachurae- tropia.) In many of the modern books on ophthal- mology we still find it stated that myopia is the re- sult of too great refractive power of the cornea and kns causing the image of objects to be formed in front of the retina. A faulty state of the light-re- fracting portions of the eye is supposed to be the cause of myopia. Dissection, measurements,and oph- thalmoscopic examinations have, however,'shown that in nearly all cases of myopia the light-refracting parts are normal as regards their curvature, but that the retina (and the adjoining tunics) lie at too great a distance from the cornea and lens. The principal focal distance of these (of the dioptric system) thus comes to lie in front of the retina. No doubt cases occur in which myopia arises from too great convexity of the cornea (as in conical and globular cornea), or from displacement or too great convexity of the lens, e.g. during spasm of the ciliary iiuiscle. , • , • We shall speak here of the myopia which is the result of an anomaly of the shape, and with it, of the position of the tunics (sclerotic, choroid, and retina). This anomaly is the opposite to the one found in hypermetropia, and consists in an undue extension of the sclerotic, choroid, and retina, espe- cially round the optic nerve and in the region of the yellow spot. If in the latter part the exten- sion is prominently great, it is described as pos- terior staphyloma (staphyloma posticum). The hypermetropic eye is small (short from before backwards) ; the myopic eye is enlarged or elongated (long from before backwards — egg- shaped). Connected with this abnormal shape are alterations of the, tunics and of vision, and a series of morbid changes. The diagnosis of myopia is made out of the distance of the tunics from the dioptric jsystem VISION. (cornea and crystalline lens), and out of the alte- ration of these tunics, especially round the optie disc and in the region of the yellow spot, as seen by the ophthalmoscope. In this we are assisted by the state of vision, and by the trial with con- cave lenses. Examination with the ophthalmoscope. — An observer with normal eyes can by direct examina- tion with the ophthalmoscope recognise the shape of every eye, whether the eye be too short, normal, or too long, as long as the optic diss is visible. He can, after some practice, in the myopic by this means even determine the aver- age degree of the myopia. The sooner, during direct examination, the well-defined outlines of the inverted image of the optic disc of the myopie eye (under the influence of atropia) appear indis- tinct, when a(ipi'oachiiig the eye from the distance at which they were seen distinctly with tlw ophthalmoscope, the higher is the degree of the myopia. In slight degrees of myopia (of -^g and less) the erect image can also be seen ; in the higher degrees, to do this, a concave leii» strong enough to neutralise the myopia must be placed behind the sight-hole of the ophthal- moscope. The indirect ophthalmoscope examination is conducted in the usual way. The optie disc, &c., of the myopie eye generally appear small. A convex lens of from 6 inches to 10 inches focus is placed behind the sight-hole of the ophthalmoscope, if it is thought desirable to make the optic disc, &c., appear larger. While holding the convex lens, as is usual during ex- amination of the inverted image, we approach the eye up to from 2 inches to 3 inches, while looking through the sight-hole of the ophthalmoscope aud through the convex lens behind it, when we per- ceive the magnified inverted image of the optic disc. The different paits of the myopic eye are ex- amined in the succession usual in ophthalmoscopic examination, paying particular attention to the outer margin of the optic disc when examining the erect, and to its inner margin, when examining the inverted image. Alterations of the tunics—l:\i<& following de- scription of the alterations of the tunics of the myopic eye is the combined result of dissection and of ophthalmoscopic examination. The abnormal shape of the myopic eye (of the curvature of its tunics, especially of the part which extends from the outer margin of the corne» towards the optic nerve) is as readily perceived as that of the hypermetropic eye. By directing the myop to turn the eyes in different directions, we readily observe the abnor- mally great distance which exists between the (iiargin of the cornea and the region near the opOC lU'rve. Combined with this we find a too slight ciirvaturi? of the sclerotic. Generallv, all diameters of the myopic eye are enlarged, but as a rule the one from below backwards most. The sclerotic in the region of the yellow spot appears bluish and thinnta distension of the tunics m that par considerable. In some cases nearly' transparent. the if is very leen found it has Inflaiumation may cause this part to become swollen and ffidtf- ^ ■ • ■ ' than other parts oj uiiusuiu iiatous, and to appear thicker 1 the sclerotic. This, however, is a very