PHLEBOTOMY. 455 curved bistoury. In some cases I have no doubt that this method would coiuplatoly an- swer, and enable the surgeon to throw a lotion under the prepuce, and even to uncover the glans sufficiently to bring it fairly into view. The method of M. J. Cloquet also merits notice : it consists in slitting the lower portion of the pre- puce upon a director, in a line parallel with the frzBuum. When this latter part is very short it is to be divided with the scissors. The longitudinal wound thus made becomes transverse when the prepuce is drawn back ; and scarcely any de- formity is the consequence. This method, which is advocated by Mr. Wallace, of Dublin, is some- times practised in University College Hospital. In performing this operation, great care is to be taken not to let the director enter the urethra, in- stead of passing by the side of the frsenum; a se- rious mistake, which is alleged to have really hap- pened. (See Lidon on Pracl. Surgery, p. 479.) With the view of preventing the deformity re- sulting from the angles of the wound occasioned by slitting up the superior portion of the prepuce longitudinally, M. Lisfranc has recommended the mere excision of a semicircular slice from the an- terior and dorsal part of it, by means of a pair of laterally curved scissors; and of repeating this proceeding if the first excision should prove in- sufficient. M. Velpeau approves of this plan when the prepuce is long, and the phimosis is slight ; but, under other circumstances, when a loss of substance is desirable, he prefers the re- moval of a triangular piece of the prepuce. This practice he deems, indeed, positively necessary in operating upon a phimosis attended with chronic induration, as he once did at the hospital St. An- toine, in which example the whole of the lining of the prepuce was transformed into a fibro-car- tilaginous sac. (See Nouv. Elirn. de Med. Op. t. iii. p. 557.) In nine cases out of twelve in which the ex- perienced Mr. Hey had occasion to amputate the penis for cancerous disease, the patients were also affected with a natural phimosis. {Pract. Obs. in Surgery.) M. Roux has noticed the same thing in three similar examples; and, as he conceives that phimosis may be conducive to carcinoma of the penis, he thinks that it should always be remedied in time. {Farallkle de la Chir. Angloise, p. 30e. Also Travers, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii.) See Penis, Cancer op. Treatment op Paraphimosis. The removal of the stricture in this case should al- ways be effected whenever its continuation threatens to produce a mortification in the parts, between the stricture and the glans. The reduction of a paraphimosis may be effected in most cases, and especially when recent, by compressing with the fingers all the blood out of the swelled glans, so as to render this part sufficiently small to allow the constricting prepuce to bo brought forward over it. [The best way to do this is to draw the prepuce forwards with the fingers, and at the same time to use the thumbs to compress the gUiiis and press it backwards.] In a former edition of this work, as Mr, Dunn of Scarborough has reminded me, the power of cold applications, in promoting the reduc- tion of the glans, should have been mentioned. This method should always be put in practice before the reduction by compression is attempted, as a preliminary measure, which sometimes suc- ceeds of itself, and renders unnecessary any pain- ful handling of the parts. When the reduction cannot be accomplished by these means it becomes necessary to divide the stricture; but from the great success which I have seen attend the first mode, I should not conceive the second one to be so frequently necessary as Mr. Hunter seems to lay down. This operation is always troublesome to accomplish, because the swelling on each side of the stricture covers or closes the tight part, which cannot be got at without difficulty. The directions given by Mr. Hunter for its performance are the best: he advises the surgeon to separate the two swellings as much as possible, where he means to cut, so as to expose the constricted part ; then to take a curved and sharp-pointed bistoury, and to pass it under the constriction and divide it. [Instead of passing a curved knife under the con- stricted skin, it will, we think, be found more convenient to use a straight sharp-pointed knife and to cut from without inwards. Having sepa- rated the two swellings as far as possible, the skin at the bottom of the groove between them should be divided in a forward and backward direction to a sufficient extent to relieve the stricture. The tension being relieved, the edges of the incision gape widely apart, making it appear transverse instead of longitudinal in its direction. When the stricture is very tight it is sometimes advisable to divide it at more than one point. One incision may then be made in the centre and one on each side of the penis.] The prepuce may now be brought forward, unless it be thought more convenient, for the pur- pose of dressing the chancres, to let it remain in its present situation. (See Hunter on the Venereal Disease, pp. 238, 239.) In recent cases, the reduc- tion is then easily accomplished ; in others, it will follow gradually under the use of cold or warm applications and antiphlogistic treatment ; but, as the stricture has ceased, the dangers from that cause are obviated. [After the stricture has been divided, it is never advisable to use any force to reduce the paraphi- mosis. The inflammatory effusion renders the prepuce very rigid and resisting, whereas the cause of mischief having been removed, the inflam- mation speedily subsides, and the prepuce will return spontaneously to its natural position.] The original disease producing phimosis and paraphimosis must always be attended to, according to the nature of the affection of which these are only effects. One of the most interesting of the old writers on Phimosis and Parnphimosis, is J. L. Petit, Traitd des Mai. Chir. t. ii. Consult also .7. Hunter, On the Venereal Disease. Sabaticr, Mddecine Op^ratoire, t. iii. 8vo. Paris, 1810. Travers, in Surgicul Essays, part 1. 8vo. Lond. 1818. There is a valuable chapter on this subject in Richtcr's Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. b. vi. Also, ii. Liston, On Practical Surgery, p. 477. 8vo. Lond. 1837. PHLEBITIS (from ipx^, a vein). Inflamma- tion of a vein. (See Veins.) PHLEBOTOMY (from <p\^, a vein; and refxvoi, to cut). Tlie operation of opening a vein for the purpose of taking away blood. (See Vene- section.) PHLEGMASIA DOLENS. A swelling of the lower extremities, the consequence of crural