506 TYiEMIA. tlic Wood takes place through minute vessels of a wound hidden from our sight; and the occurrence of severe constitutional symptoms is the first signal of a malady to which, only too often, there is but one end. When there are indications of the ex- tension of inflammation along a vein, the mode of treatment formerly adopted in this country was the administration of calomel and opium ; and in France, general bleeding, but especially the appli- cation of large numbers of leeches. Such treatment was based upon false pathologi- cal views. The use of calomel and bleeding has now been generally abandoned, and a stimulating plan of treatment substituted for it. Although a careful comparative experience be still wanting, the numerical evidence which we have in some diseases tends to indicate the plan of treatment which is most in accordance with the views now held and taught. At a period when puerperal fever was rife, forty cases attacked with some form of the disease, says Dr. Ferguson, " were treated without any bleeding or leeching, or without any attempt to induce the constitutional effects of mercury, and of these only two died." So long as there are the local plienomena of venous obstruction from the presence of blood-clots, mercury is not only useless but injurious ; and when the constitutional symp- toms would indicate a general infection of the blood, the case can certainly no longer be termed one of inflammation at all, but it comes within the category, and requires the treatment of a blood disease of typhoid type. The cases in which purulent deposits usually form, indicate a debilitated state of constitution. They are of much more frequent occurrence in large towns than in the country, and in hospital than in private practice. The depressing influences which give rise to erysipelas, and puerperal fever, will also predispose to the formation of these ab- scesses, and as scanty diet, loss of blood, debilitat- ing surgical operations, and overcrowded rooms, luive been found among the causes of the former, so may they be looked upon as favouring the pro- duction of the latter. There are several very important points con- nected with the etiology and causation of these diseases, which have not yet been at all satisfac- torily worked out. There appears, for example, to be some intimate etiological connection between such diseases as phlebitis, inflamed lymphatics, the different forms of erysipelas, pyaemia, and putrid infection. They all seem to depend, to a very great extent, upon the presence of specific morbid materials in the blood, which are either introduced from without, or generated within the animal economy. The diseases we have named frequently occur simul- taneously, and their prevalence and spread—if not their generation—would often seem to depend npon peculiar conditions of the atmosphere, particularly the atmosphere of hospital wards. What is the exact determining cause or causes of these disorders is beyond our knowledge, for we have not yet ascertained what the changes in the Secretions of a wound are, which precede the general lilood contamination. Of one thing the author fuels quite certain, tliat when one of them, as for example erysipelas, has once originated, it is communicable. It is not an essential character of such commu- nication that the disease which follows should be exactly the same, for it has happened in tlie author's experience (in common with that of others), to have observed the appearance of cases of pya;mial disorder, after exposure to the erysi- pelatous poison. The two disorders are frequently combined in the same patient: a wound exhibiting the local characters of erysipelas, and the consti- tution e.xhibiting the symptoms of pya;mia. Professor Simpson, in some suggestive papers upon surgical fever, has advanced some very co- gent evidence upon the spread and communica- bility of these disorders. The most important practical lesson to be learnt is, that this group of diseases is preventible to a great extent. What- ever ministers to a defective hygiene, the presence of decomposing animal matter in the atmosphere —in one word, dirt—supplies the exlenial con- ditions most favourable to their occurrence, and whatever ministers to the accumulation of those effete and waste products which produce an in- stable condition of the blood and tissues, 8uppli<-s the most favourable hUcrnal couditions. It is too much to hope that we shall be enabled to prevent these accidents to surgery by the most rigorous application of the most sagacious rules : but no one can doubt that much may yet be done. When we take the lowest rate of the recorded mortalities in some English hospitals, and contrast them with the highest rate of the continental hospitals, we cannot avoid perceiving the existence of external causes which are within our control, and remediable. It becomes an interesting subject for inquiiy, whether the application of acupressure, instead of ligature, for the arrest of hffimorrhage, will at all lessen the mortalitj' in surgical practice. In many cases the disease which gives rise to pysemia has its origin in the interior of a bone. The veins are here held open by their solid walls and are placed under circumstances most favour- able for the extension of disease after it has once commenced in their cavities. M. Jules Roux read a memoir before the Imperial Academy of Medicine at Paris, in 1860, in which he showed the great liability of what he termed osteo-myelitis to extend throughout the cancellous structure of any bone that has become affected by it, and he consequently recommends that where amputation is performed it should be done through the joint above the affected bone. This is the only mode we have in cases where absorption of morbid matter is taking place from the diseased cancellous structure of a long bone of preventing the further contamination of the general system. An abundant supply of food, fresh air, a nutri- tious and stimulating diet, and the most scrupulous attention in preserving a cleanly state of all wounds are the main prophylactic measures. The treatment of inflammation of the veins, in which purideut deposits so frequently originate, is thus spoken of by Sir B. Brodie, after matured observation: " All" the experience that I have had on this subject would lead me to believe th;it, like erysipelas, it has its origin in a low asthenic state of the system, and that those per^onsare especially liable to it who have been much lowered by hiemorrhagc at the time of an operation, or by too scanty a diet afterwards. An oijeratDii is a shock upon the nervous system, making a great deniana upon the vital powers. The eirccts of this shock