PHIMOSIS. 454 tliinka the performance of this operation for the mere purpose of applying dressings unnecessary, as the sores may be washed with injections, by means of a syringe. [In all ordinary cases of phimosis with concealed chancres any operation for the phimosis is not only unnecessary but in the highest degree in- jurious. The cut surface is immediately ino- culated from the sores, and the mischief thereby greatly increased. By attention to cleanliness, washing away the discharge with injections of cold or warm water, and by the frequent injection also of slightly astringent or stimulating lotions, such as the Lotio Plumbi Diacet., or the Lotio Nigra, the inflammation will subside, and the sores will heal in due course. When the sores are soundly healed, the phimosis often disappears spontaneously, and no operation is required. It is only in those cases where there is persistent con- traction of the preputial orifice after the healing of the sores that surgical interference should be thought of. r On the other hand, there are cases in which the division of the prepuce for the purpose of exposing concealed sores should be resorted to without delay. These are cases in which there is much swelling aiid redness, with acute pain in the part, and a dirty sanious discharge from under the pre- puce. When these symptoms are present, there is usually sloughing either of the glans or of the interior of the prepuce, to prevent the spread- ing of which it is very important that the diseased parts should be exposed, and proper dressings applied to them. Haemorrhage from sores beneath the prepuce is another good reason for dividing the latter ; it rarely occurs, perhaps never to any serious amount, except when slough- ing is present, and it is a tolerably sure indication that the glans penis is affected. By exposure of the bleeding surface to the air, the heemorrhage will often cease ; should it not do so, it can without difficulty be arrested by the application of ice, or of styptics such as turpentine, or the perchloride of iron solution.] The common operation for the cure of phimosis consists in slitting open the prepuce, nearly its whole length, in the direction of thepenis. For this purpose a director is first to be introduced under it, and the division is then to be made with a curved pointed bistoury, from within outward. This, after having been introduced along the groove, as far back as the corona glandis, with its edge turned upwards, is then pushed through the prepuce over the corona, and the division is completed by the surgeon cut- ting forwards. After this, some surgeons apply a suture on each side for the purpose of prevent- ing the skin and lining of the prepuce from becoming separated ; while others dispense with sutures altogether. As the skin is usually divided further than the mucous membrane, which is apt to form a small cul-de-sac beyond the incision, it should be divided with scissors. If the frajuum reach over the orifice of the urethra, it also should be divided. [When the part is in a healthy condition, three or four sutures may be used with advantage. Im- mediate union is best promoted by an accurate adaptation of the cut edges. But when there are chancres, sutures had better be dispensed with, as the punctures will only serve as additional points for inoculation. Also, when there is much inflam- mation or sloughing, sutures are useless; imme- diate union is not to be expected, aud they will only increase the irritation.] Many surgeons object to this operation, be- cause the prepuce continues afterwards in a very deformed state ; and they perform circumcision, or amputation of the prepuce iu the following manner :—The prepuce is first taken hold of with a pair of forceps, as much of the part being left out as is judged necessary to be removed. The removal is then accomplished by one sweep of the knife, which, directed by the blades of the forceps, is sure of making the incision in a straight and regular manner. A fine suture is next passed through the edges of the inner and outer portions of the skin of the prepuce, so as to keep them together. [When circumcision is performed in the manner above suggested, it will be found that the circum- ference of the incisions in the outer and inner skin do not correspond in extent, that of the outer skin being very much larger than that of the inner. The outer skin will readily retract, but the inner will be still to a considerable extent phimosed. To remedy this the inner skin should be slit up in a longitudinal direction as far as the corona glandis; this will enable it to be everted, and stitched to the outer skin, which should be done by five or six fine sutures of silk or silver wire. The appearance of the part will be improved if the angles caused by the longitudinal incision in the mucous mem- brane are rounded off before the sutures are in- serted. Another convenient mode of performing circum- cision, is to commence by slitting up the prepuce longitudinally as far as the corona, and then to remove the lateral portions in a circular direction with the knife or scissors. The edges are then brought together by sutures as in the former method. In this operation more of the inner and less of the outer skin is removed than when the prepuce is drawn forwards previous to its removal ; the incisions in the two la3'ers correspond in extent, and there is no necessity for a longitudinal divi- sion of the mucous membrane before inserting the sutures. In cases of congenital phimosis, adhesions are not unfrequently met with between the prepuce and the glans. In most cases these will give wa)', and by the employment of a little force the pre- puce can be peeled off the glans, but where this is impracticable, the adhesions must be sepmrated bj' the knife. After the operation, lint dipped in cold water should be applied to the penis, the patient should be kept in bed, and the part supported against the abdomen. By careful management for the first forty-eight hours inflammation and swelling may in most cases be prevented and immediate union secured. A pill containing three grains of camphor and one grain of opium is very useful at night to prevent erections. The sutures should be removed on the second or third da}'.] Dr. Ryan recommended a plan of operating for phimosis, which is less severe than the conmion ones, and attended with no mutilation. It con- sists in drawing back, as far as practicable, the external skin of the prepuce, and then msmuating a'director, with an open termination, under its internal duplicature, and dividing )t with a