RICKETS, to which this excess in thickness is carried, beiira an cxnct ratio to the degree of curvature which the bone has undergone." Mr. Stanley's observations also demonstrate that the bony fibres are arranged obliquely across the axis of the bone, in a direction calculated to rnig- nient its strength. Lastly, if a long bone, like the tibia, be very much bent, while it has to support a great superincumbent weighr, the deposition of the bony matter may not be confined to the thick- ening of the walls of the concave side, but may extend across the medullary cavity, rendering the bone here perfectly solid, and thereby greatly strengthened. (See Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. iii. p. 40-i, et seq.) We k'arn from the late Mr. Wilson, that, for many years, he had also exhibited in his lectures preparations illustititing the fact of the abundant deposition of osseous matter, " when the bones begin to recover from the disease, at the part where it is most wanted, viz., on the inner part of the concave surface of their curve." (On Hie S/cele- ton, 4-c., p. 167.) [Deformity of the long bones takes place mostlv in the direction of their natural curves. In the very young child it may be produced by the weight of the legs and leet hanging down, but after it has begun to walk, the weight of the body pressing upon the softened bones, and musculai actiiin determine it. In the upper limbs, it is also generally caused by the child supporting its weight upon them, as in crawling, &c. When the spine is affected, the normal curves of its several regions are exaggerated, and antero- posterior curvature is commonly pruduced : this variety is much more frequent in the young child than the lateral deviation. The increase of the curves is due to muscular weakness, and softening of the bodies of the vertebrre, and is also, to a very considerable degree, compensatory. The constant tendency of the head to fall for- wards of its own weight, requires a corresponding muscular effort to prevent it, and an anterior curve in the cervical region is thus normally produced. In rickets, the muscles are weakened, and fail to maintain the head erect, so that it sinks forwards for falls backwards, according to circumstances. The child instinctively throws the head back- wards, so as to raise the eyes from the ground, and at the same time to balance the weight of the ; head upon the spinal column, by which posture it rests the extensor muscles, and avoids fatigue. The cervical curve is thereby much increased, and a posterior curvature compensatory to it is produced; this is often very considerable, and is continuous throughout the dorsal and lumbar regions when the child is still unable to stand or walk, but limited to the dorsal vertebras, with an anterior curve of the lumbar spine, if it has begun to do so. When there is softening of the bodies of the vertebrcB, they yield under pressure, and the cur- vatures are further increased, permanently re- ducing the length of the spinal column to a varying degree. It occasionally happens that the spine alone is implicated, the long bones escaping the disease. In this case the height of the trunk may be much diminished, whilst the extremities attain their full development. Lateral curvatures of the spine, though some- times dependent upon rickets, are more u»iiall\ met Willi towards the age ot puberty, and are VOL. u. referable to muscular debility, weakening of the spinal ligaments, and a habit of constantly in- clining in the same direction, so as to throw the weight of the body upon the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae : interstitial absorption of the bone on one side is thus ultimately caused, and permanent curvature results, but this condition is essentially distinct from rickets. Whin rickety bones are examined, the periosteum covering them is found to be much thickened, highly vascular, and more adherent than usual. Uuges and some other authors deny that the disease causes any alteraiiim in this membrane. Jenner describes the periosteal thickening as being greatest opposite the point of junction between the bone and its cartilaginous extremity. The bones are softened, sonietunes to such a degree as to resemlde one which has been steeped in acid; they may then be readily cut with a knife or bent in any direc- tion, and in this condition are very liable to frac- ture : when this occurs the fracture is usually incomplete, of the so-called ffreenatick variety, is not attended by laceration of the periostrum, and readily unites. The softening is due to a diminu- tinn in the amount of earthy salts supplied to the bone. The analyses of Lehmann and others show that rickety bones do not contain more than one part of the inorganic element to three or four of the organic, the normal proportion in health being two parts of the former to one of the latter, and a still greater deficiency in the mineral consti- tuent has been related. (Simon's Cliemistiy, by Day, Si/d. Soc, vol. ii. p. 284.) The bone itself is redder and of a darker colour than usual, from the presence of a pulpy san- guineous substance which completely infiltrates the osseous tissue. At first this material is fluid or gelatinous, but it ultimately becomes organised, and, according to certain observers, converted into bone. _ Under the microscope, this pulp is seen to con- sist of nucleated colourless cells, with numerous blood corpuscles, some granular matter, and often a large quantity of oil globules. It more or less completely replaces the marrow occupying the medullary canal, the cancelli, and even the in- terstices of the compact tissue. The disease of the bones is usually preceded by general cachexia, and first manifests itself by a swelling of their articular extremities. This swelling depends upon the presence of an elastic reticulated structure first observed by M. Rufz who described it as resulting from hvpertrophy of the normal cancellous texture of the bone. Dunds and Stanley incline to this opinion, attributing the enlargement partly to this cause, and partly to an expansion of the osseous cells. Guerin considers this spongy tissue to be derived from the organ- isation and ossification of the real pulpy matter above mentioned. Bouvier states that it is formed by the original bone, which is first rarified and then transformed into fibrous tissue by the loss of its calcareous element : as recovery takes place this fibrous material slowly undergoes ossification' enclosing small round cellules, thus presenting the sponge-like appearance of bone which has been the subject of inflammation. Ne'laton is disposed also, to favour this view. Gerdy regards it as ati entirely new product, lesultuig fnim inflammatory action of a specific character. Jeniier (/,oc. CiV. p. 261) mentions tiie lame develupmeiu of the N N