574 SKIN, DISEASES OF ment of its functiojis, namely, sensation and secre- tion, the secreted products of the skin being the epidermis, nails, sebaceous matter, and perspira- tion. A classification of diseases of the skin, founded on a view of the structures involved in ih5 morliid phenomena, would constitute a phijsioloyicul classi- fication, and mi«ht be detailed as follows :— 1. Diseases of general structure, includnig in- flammation and its consequences. 2. Diseases of special structure; namely, of vessels, for example, nsevus; of necrcs, for example, hyperffisthesia and anaesthesia; of papilla, for ex- ample, verruca and clavus; of hairs, lor example, tine.i tonsurans; of glands, for example, acne and molluscum adenosuni. 3. Disorders of function ; namely, sensation, which might be referred back to diseases of nerves; and srcielion, for example, secretion of epidermis, of nails, of sebaceous matter, of perspiration. Diseases of the general structure of the skin present special and characti ristic signs, such as redness, papulation, lymph-efFusion, suppuration or pustulation, and desquamation; and these five signs of disease, or lesions, are the ground\york of the classification which is in common use in this country, a pathological classification, the so-called classification of Willan. This classification, which is purely artificial, may be called the classification of pathological signs or appearances, and its appli cation is as follows:—/W«ess is the type of one of the eight orders of diseases of the skin of Willan, the order Exanthemata; papulation supplies him with two orders, Papulce, or small punples, and Tubercula, or large pimples; lymph-efusion also constitutes two of his orders, namely, VesiculcB,^<x small vesicles, and BulloB, or large vesicles or blis- ters; puiiuhitim suggests a sixth order, PiistiiicB; and dei^qiianmtion a seventh, Squamai; the eighth, and remaining Willanean order, namely, Ma- culcB, includes stains or marks of the skin and ilis- colorations not due to simple vascular congestion or inflammation. , The pathological classification, in other words, the classification founded on the elementary patho- logical lesions of the skin, dates back to an early period of svstematic medicine. Riolanus, an au- thor of the sixteenth century, informs us that some phvsicians include all diseases of the skin under three genera, namely, alterations of smoothness, ol co/oKr, and magnitude; but, as this arrangement afi-ords no place for disorders of the hair, others prefer to distinguish the groups under the three heads of Puxtules, Deformities, and Tubercles; pus- tules, comprehending all eruptions attended with roughness of the skin, whether pimples vesicles pustules, or scales; Deformities, marks of all kinds, n.orbid coloration, and diseases of the hair; and Tubercles, warts and condylomata. At a later period, 1776, Plenck amplified this simple grouping into fourteen classes, which he then suD- divided into one hundred and fifteen genera, ms fourteen classes are as follows r—Maculce, Pustulffi, Vesiculce, BuUaj, Papulte. Crusta;. Squnmse, Oallo- sitates, Excrescentiaj, Ulcera, Vulnera, Insecta, Morbi unguium, and Morbi pilorum. And Willan, in 1798, reduced this number of groups to the eight orders already enumerated, discarding, with more or less reason, crusts, callositates, excrescen- tice, ulcera, vulnera, insecta, morbi unguium, and morbi pilonim. The Willanean system of classification, or, as the French writers term it, the Teutouic-Ang'ican classification, resembles, in most respects, the Liu- na:an classification of plants; it gives a speedy help to the discovery of the name of the disease, but it affords no furthi-r information; it neither assisis the learner to a knowledge of the natural affinities, nor of the cause of the complaint, and it is therefoie of no value as an aid to medical treatment. Its peculiar adaptation to diagnosis, however, is a great temptation to retaining it, and to this its popularity and universality are consequently due ; it is essentially the classification of diagnosis ; a merit of no mean significance. The mode of application of the "Willanean clas- sification is as follows:—The student has exhibited to him an eruption, the leading character of which is redness, without perceptible elevation of surface; a redness which is cleaily due to hypersemia, or congestion of the vascular system of the skin; he perceives at once that he has to deal with a disease which belongs to the order Exanthemata. Or, the predominant character of tiie eruption may be pimples, raised above the general level of the skin; the pimples are of small size, probably mnmte, there is more or less redness of the ground from which they spring, and the pimples themselves are more or less red; the case is one, obvinusly, be- longing to the order Papiila. Or, instead of being small, the pimpl.-s are large and broad, probably tiie size of a split pea, may be some are smaller and some larger; these are no longer pimples, tliey are tubercles, and their specific designation will be found in the order 'fuhercula. Or, perchance, in- stead of little hard pimples, we find minute tiesute, rising from a red, and, possibly, somewhat swollen ground; they are minute bladders of lymph or serum, and, where they are broken, there is a watery-looking fluid exuding from the skiii; here then, is a member of the order Vesicula:. But if the vesicles, instead of being small and usmilly congregated, are large, forming blisters, varying m size from the hemisphere of a pea to that ot an e<rg, they are termed buUte, that is, bubbles and the dis. ase to which they belong will be found under the order Bailee. Or, the vesicles and smaller bullffi, instead of containing sejum or Ivmph, may be filled with pus; then they are pusiules, and are grouped in the order Pustu cB. Seventhly, instead of simple redness, or papul.x, or vesicul£e, or bulla, or pustolfe, the morbid skin may exhibit, as a principal character whitish scales, of a certain thickness, but variable in size and shape; the eruplinn distinguished by scales i. therefore to be looked for under the head of Squam.: or, eighthly, and lastl>^ the Fedonm an character may be discoloration of the skin; it m j be brown or red, purple or blue, yelK.w or black or even white; this is a case belonging to the ler Afaculce. So that with the most moderate study of this classification t'- learner may be u a position to distinguish, in other words, to deter Lne the diagnosis of diseases l^«l"X"°k n- eiuht Willanean orders of diseases of tne skin he hr niy to assure himself as to the eruption before him being simple redness, a crop ot pm P cs, le^clS'of sma^ller.or ^^^^^t^^^^