TREPHINE. 772 beneath tlie sound contiguous part of tlic cranium, it frequently happens, tliat the extraction cannot be executed without removing some of tlie unbroken part, luider wliicli the fragment is depressed. This might generally be effected with very little loss of sound bone, if a narrow portion of that which lies over the broken fragment could be removed. But such a portion cannot be removed with the tre- phine. Tills instrument can only saw out a cir- cular piece. And, as in executing this, the central pin of the saw must be placed upon the uninjured bone, it is evident, that a portion of the sound bone, greater tlum half the area of the trephine, jiiust be removed at every operation. Wlien tiie bi'oken and depressed fragment is large, a repeated application of the trephine is often necessary, and a great destruction of sound bone must be the con- secjuence. Wlien the injury consists merely of a fissure ■with depression, a small enlargement of the fissure would enable the surgeon to introduce the point of the elevator, so as to raise the depressed bone. But a small enlargement of the fissure cannot be made with the trephine. When it is necessary to apply the elevator to different parts of the de- pressed bone, a great deal of the sound cranium must be removed, where a very narrow aperture would have been sufficient. " The same reasoning will appl_y to the case of openings made for the purpose of giving a dis- charge to extravasated blood or matter. "If a saw could be contrived which might be worked with safety in a straight or gently cur- vilinear direction, it would be a great acquisition to the practical surgeon. Such a saw I can now with confidence recommend, after a trial of twenty years, during which time I have rarely used the trephine in fractures of the skull. Its use has been adopted by my colleagues at the General In- firnuiry in Leeds ; and will be adopted, I hope, by every surgeon who has once made trial of it." Mr. Hey next informs us, that the instrument was first shown to him by Dr. Cockell of Pontefract ; but that there is a saw, formed on the same prin- ciple, in Scultetus's Armainenlarium Cldrurgieum. The saws alluded to are very short ones, fixed at the end of a longish straight handle ; their edges are made either straight or semicircular. The latter construction qualifies the instrument for cutting in a curvilineal direction, which is often proper. The edge of the saw should always' be made a little thi';ker than the rest of the blade, liy which means it will work in the groove, which is cut, v/ith more facilit}-. The semicircular saws do not, however, answer so well as the straight ; and iVIr. Liston dechu'es them to be utterly uselesB. (0« Praciical Surgery, p. AG.) Saws made on the principle just described, are also of infinite use in cutting away diseased por- tions of other bones, besides the skull, exostoses, &c. In necrosis, when a dead part of a bone is quite Wedged in the substance of the surrounding new bony matter, I\Ir. Uey's saws may often be advan- tageously employed for cutting away the parts which mechanically prevent the detachment of tiie dead pieces. Tiie saws invented by Mr. Macliell and Professor Graefe are also highl}- ingenious, and particularly merit attention, when there is ■Very httlo room for the working of the instrument, »'id tlie bone to be cut lies deep. They are ■*vhecl like saws, turned by machinery. Besides trephines of various sizes, and the saws just now noticed, the surgeon should also take care to have in his case of trepliining instruments a little brush for occasionally cleansing away the par- ticles of bone frovn the teeth of the saw, in the progress of the operation ; a pair of forceps for extracting the round piece of bone after it has been detached by the saw ; a lenticular knife for re- moving any inequalities which may present them- selves round the sawn edge of the cranium, after the circular piece has been taken out ; a raspatory for scraping the bone, in order to see v.'hether it will bleed, which is a circumstance deemed by Abernetliy in some cases important to be attended to (see Head, Injuries op) ; a largish common scalpel for dividing the scalp, &c. ; and some eleva- tors for raising depressed pieces of bone. The raspatory and the lenticular knife are dis- approved of by Mr. Listim ; the requisite de- nudation of the bone to a small extent, he ac- complishes with the point of the knife and the dissecting forceps ; the lenticular he does not em- ploy, because it cannot be used without unneces- sarily detaching the dura mater. Any sharp spine in the opening (he says) can be easily re- moved by the careful employment of the elevator." {On Practical Surgery, p. 45.) The common elevator is now generallj' used : but several others have been proposed, as, for in- stance, the tripod elevator; and another invented by J. L. Petit, and afterwards improved by M. Loui?. Before beginning the description of the ope- ration, I think it highlj' proper to remind the reader of what has been so fiircibly dwelt upon in the article Head, Injuries op,—that, generally, the removal of pressure from the brain, which pres- sure must also actually occasion dangerous symp- toms, can form the only true and vindicable reason for employing the trephine, or sawing away any portion of the skull. There are hut few exceptions to this remark : it may, indeed, be now and then proper to saw away the hony edges around some fungous excrescences, which grow from the dura mater and make their way outward by occasioninij an absorption of the part of the skull immediately over them. (See Dura Mater.) It may also bt> necessary to saw out a necrosis involving both tables,if it were the occasion of irritation of the dura mater and much cerebral disturbance : under oliur circumstances, it may generally be more prudent to leave the detachment of the dead bone to be com- pleted by the process of exfoliation ; though .^[. Velpeau is inclined to maintain that a necrosis of both tables of the skull is of itself, whether at- tended or not with symptoms of compression, a well-founded indication for the trepan : and he rc^ lates three cases in support of tliis view. (Sec Alf. Velpeau, do I'Operation dii Trepan, p. 23.) A mere necrosis of the outer table, abstractedly considered, can never be an adequate reason for the application of the trephine. Loose splinters should generally be removed. But though this is the common nile, there are exceptions to it. 1' the bone were broken into several loose pieces, but not exposed by any wound of the scalp, and the case not accompanied by any urgent symp- toms of compression, an operation for the removal of the fragments of lione would, in my opinion, be uiiadvisablc. A very interesting case has been published by Mr. Crampton, proving that, even, though such injuries of the bone may be altcuUea