SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION. 630 noticed the same occurrence in iinimals, and Proschaska gave an instructive description of such a case. In Van Hoorne's work are excellent engravings toaethcr hy adhesive straps. of this condition of the nerves, as well as of the os- seous deposition at the end of the bones of stumps, and of necroses in various degrees and stages. In Froriep's Chir. Kupferta/eln, pi. 113, the same things are represented, accompanied by an account of two preparations of stumps, preserved m the Museum of the University of Bonn by Professor Mayer, the particulars of which merit the attention of all who are investigating the present^ subject. Cruveilhier has published a representation of a shoulder-stump, after an amputation, performed many years previously by Larrey. The changes in tLe muscles, and ends of the vessels, are care- fully drawn and explained, as well as the ganglionic enlargement of the nerves. {Anat, FathoL t. i. livr. vi. pi. 5.—Paris, 1829, 35 Fol.) When the severe neuralgic aifection of a stump, sometimes attended with convulsive twitches, is de- pendent upon the bulbous enlargement of the end of a nerve, it may sometimes be cured by the repeti- tion of amputation, or even by the mere excision of the extremity of the nerve. The latter operation, I think, with Mr. Mayo, is to be preferred if the symp- toms are clearly attributable to an affection of one nerve. {Human Patliology, p. 139.) In support of this advice, Mr. Mayo gives an interesting ex- ample of the success of the practice. He likewise adds the particulars of a case, in which the source of the painful aifection of the stump was not con- lined to the cut extremity of the nerve. A second amputation had been performed. " On examining the amputated part, the sciatic nerve and the saphenous nerve were found to terminate in large callous bulbs. In the second operation, care was taken to draw out and remove a considerable por- tion of the sciatic nerve, which retracting lay well covered among the muscles. Nevertheless, when the stump had nearly healed, the old pain again commenced ;" but was more circumscribed. Mr. Mayo now cut down to the sciatic nerve, where covered by the lower fibres of the glutseus max- imus, and divided it. A portion of it was then re- moved. The benefit was only temporary. Mr. Mayo suspects that amputation at the hip might cure this patient, though loth to recommend this formidable proceeding; and refers to a case, in which a neuralgia, which had followed an ampu- tation above the wrist, had returned after a second amputation, but been permanently cured by am- putation of the shoulder. Sometimes the relief, afforded by excision of the bulb of the nerve, is not complete, as we find exemplified in the case under Mr. Palmer, who removed from a stump a portion of the fibular nerve. " The stump is still occa- •ionally agitated by slight spasms, and the nerve, for above two inches above the cicatrix (as may be perceived by feeling through the integuments), is still enlarged and very sensitive. Unquestion- ably the relief afforded has been immense; but I now regret, that I did not in the first place remove a greater length of the nerve, so as completely to obviate the possibility of its being again involved in the new cicatrix." {Palmer, in Lorul. Med. Gaz. vol. xvii. p. 220.) When the soft parts are deficient, and the bone prominent on the face of the stump, _ forcible at- tempts are often made to bring the integuments lu-ci-i.ti V,, r These endeavours (as Mr. James correctly obser\'es) commonly fail, and are indeed mischievous; for, if the straps are brought over the surface of the bone, then they bind down this thin and irritable covering upon a broad surface, which is sure to indispose them to unite; and, if applied at the sides, although they may bring the edges together, yet they will force the soft parts still more back than the bone. The only remedy for such stumps, according to Mr. James, is to be found in the skilful application of a bandage, and a proper position; and these failing, in sawing off the bone higher up. (See Provincial Med. and Surgical Trans, vol. iii. p. 228.) Mr. Benjamin Phillips has written some good remarks on inflammation of the medullary mem- brane succeeding to amputation; one of the most serious, and, as it appears to this gentleman, not the least frequent of the accidents, which follow this operation. It is from this cause that necrosis of the whole thickness of the sawn bone mostly arises. The several stages of the case are well described by Mr. Phillips, as that of simple con- gestion of the medullary membrane; another, leading to osseous deposit; a third, attended with the formation of pus; and a fourth, with gangrene of the texture in question. Mr. Phillips ascribes the disorder to the violence inflicted upon it by the saw. An anxiety, he observes, is felt to pre- vent such action of the saw upon the periosteum; " but the action of the instrument upon this mem- brane would notbring about those formidable conse- quences, with which such injuries to the medullary membrane are pregnant." He notices the custom, followed in many parts of the continent, of apply- ing a very tight bandage round the stump, for the purpose of preventing the retraction of the muscles. This system, he states, exists at La Charitd in Paris, where the proportion of unfortunate termi- nations in cases of amputation is very great. Dr. Carswell thinks it probable, thatr the tight band- ages there used, produce congestion, and a tendency to inflammation of the medullary texture of the sawn bones. {B. Phillips, in Lojid. Med. Gaz. vol. xiii. p. 189, &c.) When the end of the femur, tibia, or other bone of a stump, is affected with necrosis of its whole thickness, and this for some extent, the excision and removal of the sequestrum is the most expeditious means of cure. [Further informa- tion on this subject will be found in art. Amputa- tion.] , STYE. A little inflammatory tumor on the eA-elid. (See Hordeolum.) SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION. — Local Naivolic Injection of Wood. The Subdermal Method. The Hypodermic Method of Treatment [Hunter).—It is but a few years since injections into and beneath the skin were employed with an object very difi'erent from that for which they have now come into extensive use. Formerly they were only employed to produce local irritation and co- agulation of tissues beneath the skm—to inflame perhaps a serous membrane, to obliterate veins, and coagulate blood in njevi and aneurismal tumors —in a word, these injections were simply used for their local eff'ects. • . j . In 1843, Dr. Wood, of Edinburgh, pointed out another local use for the syringes then employed for injecting caustics into nnevi, namely, a new method of treating neuralgia by theldircct applioa-