both to the abdominal walls and to a hard tumor which reached below into the pelvis, and was ol the size of two fists. The tumor was knobby on the surface, of a white colour, and hard ; it was intimately connected with the fundus of the uterus, from which it seemed to spring. The mner sur- face of the uterus appeared natural, the raucous membrane unaltered. In its cavity, however, was a round tumor the size of a billiard-ball, hard, ot a bluish-white colour, and covered with a yellowish purulent matter. It lay free in the cavity of the womb, without any attachment to the walls. The substance of the uterus was much thickened ; the thickness was not uniform, but in many places it was three inches. In the substance were many round tumors of the size of a pea, a bean, a walnut, up to that of a billiard-ball. These tumors were for the most part free, or at least could be easily detached from the surrounding substance of the uterus. They were of a white colour, and very firm texture. They were in general bullet-shaped, but most of them knobby. On section they showed interiorly the same hard glistening tissue as the outside; but a fibrillation or distinct texture could not be distinguished by the naked eye. The large tumor first described as arising from the fundus was softened in parts ; it exhibited irregular, eroded excavations, traversed by bands which were soft at the surface, but hard in the interior. These cavities were some empty, some filled with a soft bkod-coagulum, or a greasy, purulent grey matter. The softened tumor was broken above, and had emptied a part of its con- tents into the cavity of the peritoneum, whence secondary peritonitis and death. Another tumor of the size of a pigeon's egg was found in the vaginal portion of the uterus ; this was softer, and could not be separated from the uterine substance. It was white, and consisted of a fibrous web with large meshes filled v/ith a thick albuminous fluid. The substance of the uterus consisted of the ordi- nary organic muscular fibres. In some places brownish cells in great numbers were found between these fibres. The mass contained in the cavity of the uterus showed quite the same struc- ture, the same fibres, and the same brown cells. The tumors in the substance of the uterus, both great and small, were exactly similar. The upper softened part of the large tumor contained, toge- ther with blood-clots and isolated blood-corpuscles, many pus-globules, which underwent the ordinary change with acetic acid. The softening of the tumor was plainly occasioned by inflammation. The traversing bands and threads in the cavities of tlie softened portion were recognised as the ddbris of organic muscular fibres and connective tissue which had withstood the destruction of the surrounding tissue. The softer tumor in the vaginal portion appeared to be a fibrous tumor; the fibrous portion consisted of organic muscular fibres and connective tissue; the albuminous- looking fluid in the meshes showed numerous round or ehiiigaled cells, sometimes solitary, some- times in groups, probably primary, which, later, would liave been developed into muscular cells and fibres. Some of the tumors in the substance of the uterus were carefully enucleated, cut into small pieces, repeatedly washed in water, and submitted to chemical investigation. They were gradually dissolved in boiling concentrated hydro- chloric acid ; the solution was colourless. In POLYPUS OF THE UTERUS, 4G9 acetic acid they swelled up, became translucent and gelatinous; but a perfect solution was not obtained at the end of a week's treatment. Simi- lar pieces, carefully washed with water, then dried between pieces of blotting-paper, were weighed and completely dried at 100° in a water bath, and again weighed. 1000 parts of the fresh substance gave 220 of dried residuum." Lebert (1852) describes these fibroid polypi as consisting of: 1. cellular tissue and fibrn-plastic elements ; 2. of muscular fibre-cells like those of the uterus. Robin (1854) says the muscular fibre-cells are larger than those of the empty uterus, but smaller than those of the gravid uterus ; that they constitute from a fourth to a half of the morbid mass ; they further contain a large pro- portion of finely-granular amorphous matter, very tenacious, half-solid, binding the fibres of the cel- lular tissue together, and also the fibre-cells. This granular amorphous matter tends to grow with the growth of the tumor. These tumors form distinct masses of uterine tissue, surrounded by a species of envelope or capsule formed of con- nective tissue, and a layer of the proper muscular wall. It is owing to this encapsulation that they become capable of travelling from their primary seat. How are these growths fed ? Their structure is dense, possessing commonly no vessels of any size, and they are quite insensible. Cru- veilhier pointed out that it is in these tumors that the vascular system of fibrous bodies in general can best-be studied. A considerable vascular net- work envelopes them. This is entirely venous, and communicates with the veins of the uterus, which acquire a calibre proportionate to the de- velopment of the tumors. Occasionally, how- ever, vessels of considerable size have been seen penetrating the substance of fibroid polypi. The growth of fibroid polypi, like that of fibroids still imbedded in the uterine wall, is stimulated by the ovarian or menstrual nisus, and still more actively by pregnancy, the same impulse as that which governs the cognate muscular tissue. In like manner, they are disposed to undergo a similar re- trogression or decline when pregnancy has passed, and even atrophy or calcareous degeneration when the period of menstrual life has ended. The fibroid polypus having undergone a certain degree of severance from the uterus, is in corresponding measure withdrawn from this influence, but never entirely. Dr. R. Lee (Med. Clnr. Trans, vol. xix.) cites Dr. Sims as describing the distinction of a fibroid tumor in the following manner:— 1st. If it happen to be developed in the centre of the muscular wall, it grows there ; 2nd. if near the outer wall, it expands into the cavity of the abdomen, covered by the peritoneum ; 3rd. if near the mucous surface, then it projects into the uterine cavity, protruding before it a layer of muscular tissue, so that tlie neck of the tumor would be formed by a portion of the substance ot the uterus. Boivin, Duges, Breschet, and others have entertained the same view. Two factors con- cur in the production of this migration. Sometimes this takes place as the result of the different ratio of growth of the tumor and of the uterus. A dense solid substance, distinct from the uterine wall in which it is imbedded, and continuing to grow, whilst the uterus itself partakes to a less degree in the process of enlargement, will in time form a projection upon one or other surface of the