dragging it down, as " it wiis on]y suspended by a common sling, and the patient not at all con- fined to liis bed ;" the cure was a good one, for the patient could afterwards carry heavy weights, and regained every motion of the arm. (See White's Cases and Obs. Phil. Trans, vol. li,v). This joint was excised by Mr. Bent of Newcastle, in [n\, and by Mr. Orred of Chester, in 1778, for compound dislocations of the humerus. In 1786 M. Moreau of Bar-sur-Ornain excised the head of the humerus and the glenoid cavity ; this was one of the very few examples in which the whole joint was excised, for although excision has frequently been performed of late years in this joint, it has been mostly confined to decapita- tion of the humerus. In the operation, however, there is this similarity to that of the hip-joint : if the glenoid cavity participates in the disease it can be gouged away, as is frequently done in the acetabulum, and should the disease be extensive the glenoid cavity can be entirely taken away by the cutting forceps. In studying the statistics of excision in th shoulder, it soon becomes apparent that in the great majority of cases it has been performed tor fracture of a compound and comminuted cha racter, the result of gun-shot injury. Disease in the articulation is of comparativelyrare occurrence and the cases which present themselves in practice are those in which the disease very often is confined to the bony structures surrounding the joint, as the acromion and coracoid process of the scapula or the spme of that bone. The operation for disease has however been very frequently done in civil practice, and with such results «that it is justly esteemed one of the most legitimate and brilliant operations of modern surgery" (See Fergusson's Practical Surgery, ed. 4, p. 304) In military practice, the success of this operation has been astonishing ; in 14 cases related by M 1 h1'.^' 7'=';."i"g in the Crimea tliere was but 1 death; and ol 14 cases in the British army, 12 recovered. Mr Barwell {op. dt.) refers to 84 cases collected by Paul, in which there were 23 deaths. In performing the operation, removal of the head ol the bone has been accomplished in various ways. White made a single longitudinal incision • Moreau made a square shaped flap, one incision in front of the articulation, another behind, both being united above by a transverse division of the aeltoid a few lines below the acromion. Other surgeons practised different forms of incision - Sa- batier recommended a V incision. It may resemble a I or an but as Mr. Fergusson observes, the Burgeon ought not to limit himself to any one mode of procedure ; but should rather, trusting to his suresTnT "1"'"P1''»"^<= «kill, adapt his mea- sures to the peculiarities of the case. semi LTnr?^'' performed as follows: a aniciilation fully exposed. /, the "ps,?!" JOINTS, EXCISION OF. spatula behind it, may be removed with a narrow saw. In doing this care must be taken to en- croach upon the healthy shaft of the bone as little as possible. The glenoid cavity must now be ex- amined, and any affected part carefully gou-red away. (See Erichseiis Science and A rt of Surgery, p. 702.) The flap must now be adjusted, and its' edges brought together by several points of suture; the arm is to be well supported in a sling, with the elbow sufficiently raised. Very little dis- turbance ensues, the wound unites by granulation, and in the course of two or three weeks the patient may be allowed to sit up with his arm in a sling Usually a very good arm is obtained with a false joint, the limb becoming drawn upwards to a slight extent. On the whole it proves the most successful of all the excisions]. lip.eiUsared.tro3!ed',;^tl.;^;:iS:S head of the bone may readily be turned tu of the glenoid cavity; and, being freed hv Te touches of the knife, and isolLd^'y ^^Ing I ExcisioJi of the Elbow Joint.~\T:he operation of excision of the elbow was first done by Mr. Wain- man of Shripton, in 1758, in a compound dis- location of the joint. In 1775 the olecranon and two inches of the ulna were cut out by M. Justa- raond for diseased elbow joint. In 1782, Mr. Park of Liverpool proposed to excise the elbow and other joints, and in his paper detailed the steps of the operation on the dead body.! In the same year, 1782, in an elbow case operated upon by M. Moreau, the patient went on so favourably that he was allowed to go about wherever he' pleased, with his arm supp,.rted in a case. The limb was at first powerless, but it slowly regained Its strength, and the man could ultimately thrash corn with it, and hold the plough. Seven months atter, m another operation of the same kind, per- formed by M. Moreau the father, the patienJ was completely well, and in two years more, the flexion ot the arm was very distinct. In another case, the patient got well in six months, and in three months more joined his regiment. In all Moreau's cases, the flexion and extension of the fore-arm were preserved, which circumstance, no doubt, de- pended very much on the insertion of the b ceps not being destroyed. After the excision of the knee, however, the bones grew together. L1 be elbow joint has now been so frequentlv excised that It would be a superfluous task t^o en r in 0 a detail of the names and number of cases fn which surgeons have resorted to it. The records of surgery show that it has been extensively prac! tised in all countries, with a very large amount of success, and with such results as gave^n the great majority of instances good and useful arms to the patients, with a false joint possessing all the d f- terent powers of motion.] There is not, in reality, a new joint with a cap- sule formed, but the ends of the bones become con- nected by ligamentous fibres, and a sufficiently firm substance is produced to serve as a fi.xed point fo the muscles,which execute the flexion and extension of the forearm. {he<^ A. Velpeau, Noiw. Elhn Sec t. 1. p. 56'4.) ■ • ["To M. Roux and Sir Philip Crnmpton," ob- serves Mr. lergussoii, « we may he almost said to be indebted for the revival of excision of the elbow- but to no one, so far as I am aware, is there so much merit due on this score as to Mr. Syme who has, I believe, within the last thirty j-ears had more personal experience in this proceeding than any other practitioner." (See Fergusson's pT^ ■"""■gery, cd. 4, p. 2!)7.)