320 NECROSIS. by gratmlatioiis, that tliey cannot be foU with a probe ; but, their existence may then be suspected from the fistula; not healing, which can be ascribed to nothing else. It is also necessary to distinguish with the greatest attention the different stages of the dis- ease. The^'/-si stafje may be considered as exist- ing, when the attack is yet recent, and the inflam- mation and its concomitant symptoms, the pain, swelling, and symptomatic fever, prevail in a high deirree, and no suppuration has taken place, or at ]ea°st no discharge of matter. The second period, in which the dead bone is undergoing the process of separation, is indicated by a diminution of the inflammation, a partial subsidence of the swelling, and the discharge of purulent matter. When a probe is passed into the sinuses, the bone is felt bare and dry, and, towards the limits of the swelling it is" rough, where, as will be afterwards noticed, an excavation is formed. Every part of the bone, however, which is to be detached, still continues adherent to the rest of the living bone. At length, the surgeon knows, that the disease has reached its last stage, or that in which the dead portion of bone is entirely separated, when suffi- cient time for the completion oC this separation has transpired, and when the dead bone can be distinguished with the finger, probe, or even the eye, to be loose and free from all connexions. Although a necrosis must generally be classed with diseases which are serious and of long dura- tion, yet the character of the disorder is not es- sentially bad, since it is often cured by nature, or with the assistance of surgery. Confident hopes of a cure may be entertained when the necrosis is confined to the external part of a bone ; when it is simple and of moderate extent ; when it is not situated near any organ, that may be injured by it ; and when it proceeds from an external cause, and the general health is good. On the contrary, the cure is difficult and the prognosis doubtful, when the disease is extensive and complicated with other affections, either of the same, or differ- ent bones ; when it attacks bones, which are of high importance on account of their functions, or situation ; when it is situated in the interior of the bone, affects several parts of it, or implicates a large joint ; when .it arises from an internal cause of constitutional origin ; when the patient is weak- ened by age, or disease ; and especially when the sinuses extend into the neighbouring articulations. the constitutional irritation and inflammatory symp- toms are generally moderate. Nor is this state of tranquillity disturbed till the sequestrum, in mak- ing its way outward, again produces irritation. At thts second period of urgency, extensive inflamma- tion may arise, ulceration spread widely over the limb, assume an unhealthy appearance, violent fever succeed, and the patient either perish or sink into a state, in which he must consent to an oper- ation, as the only means of saving his life. This is the last crisis of imminent danger ; but in general it less imperils life than when the inflammation occurs in the earliest stage of necrosis. {Russell, Practical Essay on Necrosis.) In the treatment of necrosis, the first object of the surgeon should be to aid nature in her endea- vours to effect a cure, and not to disturb her opera- tions by any superfluous or unseasonable interfer- ence. The second should be to assist her sometimes by operative proceedings, when she cannot by her- self accomplish what is n'ecessarj'. But in order not to attempt anything wrong, it must be cor- rectly understood what nature does in this disease; what she has in her power to perform ; what she cannot accomplish at all, or not with any degree of certainty : and, lastly, the circumstances in which she may err, and endanger the patient's life. "When a portion of bone dies, nature uses all her endeavours to bring about its separation from the part of the bone, which still remains alive. Surgeons have denominated this process, which {Weidmann de Nccrosi Ossium, Tp. 22.) [The period required to effect a recovery in these cases varies very considerably, but the process of cure generally takes place more rapidly in the lower jaw than in any other bone of the body.] Mr. Russell has never known a necrosis of the tibia get well in less than a year ; but, in general, the case is protracted to a much greater length of time. Here, however, much will depend upon what can be done by the surgeon for the removal of the dead portion of bone. Necrosis of the lower jaw and clavicle rarely or never proves fatal ; that of the lower extremi- ties is far more formidable, but seldom destroys life; when death'occurs it is either from the violence of the first inflammatory symptoms, or from the profuse suppuration followed by hectic fever, which sometimes proves incurable, unless its local cause be removed by timely recourse to amputation. When the violence of the first stage, however, has abated, resembles the separation of the soft parts aft'ected with sphacelus from the living, exfoliation, (see this word.) The exfoliation of bone, however, proceeds much more slowly than the separation of a slough. Exfoliations are not completed at any regular and fixed period ; of they proceed most quickly during youth, when the constitution is usually more full of energy, the bones more vascu- lar, and less replete with solid inorganic earthy matter. On the other hand, the process is slower in old debilitated subjects, whose vitality is less active. A thin small scale of bone separates sooner than a large thick portion ; and the most tedious exfoliation is that of a thick bone, from which a portion, including its entire diameter, is coming away. The separation of a necrosis takes place more expeditiously in bones of a light texture than in those of a solid structure ; and sooner in the less compact part of bones, such as the epiphysis and spongy substance, than in those of greater density. . [When necrosis arises from syphilis, scurvy, &c. the appropriate remedies for these diseases must bo administered, to assist nature in her endeavour to cast off the dead bone ; since, in these cases, with- out the aid of constitutional treatment, her efforts are generally insufficient to accomplish the pro- cess, and life becomes imperilled.] The separation happens precisely at the differ- ent points where the living and dead parts of the bone come into contact; and it is obvious, that the particles of the dead bone which are at a distance from that portion which retains its Yitalitj', can- not be acted upon by it. . A variety of opinions have been entertained concerning the means employed by nature m eftecting this separation. Hippocrates be leveil, that the dead part teas pushed am'y byajlcsh/ sub- stance which qrew underneath it. (De Cap ] uln. cap. xxiv.) Ludwig, Aitken, Bonn, and many