260 LtTHO' rRITY. not violent, but no perspiration follows ; the febrile symptoms are more continuous, without being severe ; the tongue is white ; there is thirst; and the patient is restless at night. This state continues for several days, after which the symptoms subside. —Lastl}"-, the fever may attain a high degree, and present itself with the well-known characters of constitutional irritation. The practical conclusion to be drawn from the nature and causes of this fever is, that, to prevent it, we should avoid everything calculated to excite or increase irritation of the bladder during the sittings. Formerly, when the manipulations were long, or repeated at short intervals, irritative fever was of much more frequent occurrence than it is now. The treatment of this condition is modified chiefly according to the severity of the symptoms. Many practitioners give a dose of opium after the first sitting, as a means of diminishing the tendency to rigor; or a tumbler of brandy and water. The principal remedies are, of course, such as are best suited to calm the local irritation on which the irritative fever depends. This fever often puts on the inteimittent type, commencing with rigors, ending with perspirations, and appearing at tolerably certain intervals ; and this form usually yields to quinine. The reason why this irritative fever is so apt to assume the remittent or even the intermittent type is unknown, but the same forms prevail after irritation of the urethra produced by simple sounding or the passage of tlie catheter. The irritation of a calculous bladder increased by frequent manipulations, may pass quickly into inflammation, in which case we have fever of a different kind. We have at first the same rigors, feverish paroxysms, and perspi- rations as in the former kind, but the attack soon becomes more permanent, and the peculiar signs of local inflammation are superadded; or the inflam- matorj' fever may assume a very different form, likely to deceive the most observant practitioner. In these cases the initial rigors are irregular, or very slight; the fever is not high, but it is con, tinuous; there are no perspirations ; the signs of vesical disease are not very prominent, yet the patient rapidly sinks. Latent disease of the kidney has probably been developed under the influence of the operation. The most violent fever which occurs during lithotrity is that which is symptomatic of acute cystitis, but this is fortunately rare. The fever in these cases is of the pure inflammatory type: the skin is hot, the tongue dry, the pulse quick, above 120. This state continues for a short time only, for unless the inflammation be speedily arrested, symptoms of sinking set in, the pulse becomes small and weak, there is delirium, and, after the most intense local suffering, the patient dies in a state of coma. The severity and continuous type of this febrile attack, in conjunction with the local symptoms, will serve to distinguish it from any other form. But, dangerous as is the symptomatic fever of acute cystitis, the danger of pya;niic fever is much greater, while the difficulty of forming a correct diagnosis can only be appreciated by those who have had to deal with this linfortunate complication. Sir B. Brodie says that 'inflammation of the mucous coat of the bladder occasionally exists, nfter the cure is completed or supposed to be com- pleted.' This ia indicated by a frequent desire to make water, and a deposit from the urine of adhesive mucus. The inflammation may arise from the pre- sence of a fragment which has been overlooked, or because the calculous disease has been complicated with disease of the prostate or of the bladder itself It may again arise from rough manipulation or too protracted operations. If merely the result of the operation, these symptoms, Sir B. Brodie sa3-s, ' generally subside in the course of a fortnight with little other treatment bej'ond repose on a sofa.' As the operation of lithotrity cannot be consi- dered to be complete until the whole of the frag- ments and detritus have been discharged from the bladder, any impediment to such evacuation becomes the cause of an accident. It is one, the frequency of which has been over-stated ; yet it requires attention, as fatal effects have more than once arisen from impaction of fragments in the canal of the urethra. Many surgeons formerly held that, even if the calculus be broken up without difficulty into small fragments, some of the detritus must inevitably be detained in the bladder. In practice this is not found to occur. There is more danger of over- action on the part of the bladder than of atonj'. But this latter condition may exist; and, when the prostate is more or less enlarged, the fragments do not come away readily. Sir B. Brodie re- commends ' that the patient should be directed to void his urine stooping forwards, or even in the recumbent posture, lying with his face down- wards. Tepid water should, also, be injected through a large silver catheter, having a wide aperture near its extremity on the concave side; by which means fragments below a certain size may be washed out of the bladder. This may be done daily, the injection being repeated on each occasion, three or four times.' The bladder, however, may act with sufficient force, but the fragments become impacted at some point of the canal of the urethra. The most common seats of impaction are the neck of the bladder, the membranous portion, the middle of the sp(mgy portion, and the fossa navicularis. The accident occurs more frequently in the young than in the adult; and when it does happen, means must be promptlj"- adopted for its effectual relief The foreign body maj' be pushed back into the bladder, extracted through the orifice of the urethra, or cut out. The choice of method will be chiefly influenced by the seat of the impacted bodj'. In a great many cases it will be found near or just behind the fossa navicularis, when its removal can be effected by a pair of long narrow dressing forceps. When the fragment lies deeper, that is, at a point between the fossa and the bulb, its ex- traction presents more difficulty, to overcome which a great variety of instruments have been invented. M. Civiale employs a modification of Hunter's urethral forceps ; the branches approach each other more closely at the extremities than at the centre, and cff"ectually prevent escape of the fragment. A central stylet is added, to push back the fragment if neccssarj-, or to determine its actual presence in doubtful cases. M. Civiale has also constructed n small urethral litiiotrite. the curved portion of which is extremely short. M. Leroy d' Etiolles recom- mends apointed cuvette, which is introduced straight into the uretiira, and then bent at the cvtremity to a right angle by a simple contrivance. The