detected on the front of the thigh of the same limb ; here an inflammatory swelling took place, and suppurated. It was opened, but the original lump did not disperse. Within six months after the healing of the wound in the ham, the patient returned with an enormously swollen limb, and a large elastic morbid mass in the back part of it. A bleeding fungus protruded, and the disease was soon fatal. The original tumor (in Mr. Listen's collection) is soft ar i bloody, but that on the fore- part of the thigh was fibrinous, ovoid, larger than a hen's egg, and involving the anterior crural nerve. It seems extraordinary that in this case the remo- val of the tumor from the ham, with at least three inches of the tibial nerve, should not have been followed, even for an instant, by any loss of power or sensation in the limb or foot. {Lisioti on Prac- tical Surgery, p. 294.) [Romberg also speaks of neuromas of a fungous and scirrhous nature, in the interior of which tumors he observes that cavities and cysts not unfrequently occur, containing fluids of great variety. _ Dr. Remak is quoted by Romberg, concerning a neuroma of scirrhous nature, in which yellowish-green fluid filled up the fibrous trabeculffi. The ordinary fibrous neuroma IS looked on by Romberg as the painful or subcutaneous tubercle — by Wood as distin- guished from neuromas of other origin. When these tumors are of a cystic nature, Rokitansky says it is at once clear, from the condition under which the cyst is developed, that it performs the office of a bursa. But such can hardly be called true neuromata, or painful tubercles, which are either fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous, and have, according to Paget, the following microscopical appearances:— One finds the fine stiflp undulating filaments or fila- mentous appearance ; with these nuclei or elon- gated cells, or other probably rudimentary or developing structures, are usually found some elastic fibres in them; some present mixtures of cartilage or of bone." (P. 48 3.) Causes of Neuroma.—The causes of idiopathic neuroma are not known. When it occurs in a stump, or after an operation upon any part, the direct violence or irritation, either during the ope- ration, or afterwards from the sutures, the dis- charge, &c., are believed sufficient to excite the production of a neuroma. In the case above alluded to, under the care of Mr. Moore, a blow from a pump-handle excited the neuroma, which was of a cystic nature. Dr. Robert W. Smith clearly shows that neither neuritis nor rheumatism are ordinary causes of neuroma. On the other hand, there are those who think, with Copland, that it is undoubtedly a consequence of chronic inflammation of the tumefied part, inasmuch as the changes observed in it are similar to those which result from chronic inflam- mation in other parts of a like structure. " He looks on it as a result of chronic neuritis. But Paget thinks its origin usually appears to be ■ spontaneous, tiiat is it is unknown." (P. 484, On Tumors, Holmes' Sure/cry, vol. i.) Neuromata may sometimes be referable to an injury, but there is no general rule. When they occur in a stump, after amputation, they are usually of a fusiform shape, varying in size from that of a pea or cherrystone, to that of a pigeon's egg. In such NIPPLES. 359 discharge, or inflammatory products in contact with the nerve, or thrown out among its fibi-illa. In many cases they are not attended by inconve- nience or pain; at others they are productive of most severe suffering, even on the slightest pres- sure.] This pain may, as Mr. Lawrence conceives, be due to the cicatrix involving the bulbous swellings of the nerves, or to their being pressed by the con- traction of the cicatrix against the sawn end of the bone. For further remarks on this matter see Stump. [The cure for neuroma and subcutaneous tubercle is to remove it, when removal is possible. Brown- Sdquard says there is no other treatment than extirpation of the tumor, or amputation, if the first operation is not possible. The operation of removal should be carefully performed, as it inay not be necessary to divide the nerve, the swell- ing being usually on one side of the tmnk, if not in the centre of the nerve. But even when the nerve is quite divided, the patient has a good chance of recovery of sensation and motor power, by reunion of the divided ends and regeneration of the portion of nerve excised. " There are many cases showing that after excision of one or several inches of the ulnar, the median, the radial, posterior tibial, and even sciatic nerves, reunion or regeneration has taken place, and sen- sibility and movement been recovered." {Brown- Sequard.) If the neuroma gives rise to no irritation, or pain, of course no operation is required, unless dis- figurement is produced by its bulk.] If completely implicated with the whole structure of the nerve, it should be removed, with the portion of the nerve involved in it. " if so implicated, and the nerve, the sciatic, and the tumor or cyst, the cyst might be punctured, and the fluid evacuated, and pre- caution taken to unite the wound by adhesion. In the last case, supposing the tumor to be solid," Mayo questions whether it is not better to divide the nerve between the neuroma and tbe brain before proceeding to remove it by dissection. (J\fayo''s Human Pathology, p. 146.) In the neuromata of stump, the treatment must likewise be removal. For engravings of the ap- pearances of the ends of the nerves in stumps, consult G. P. Van Hoorn, Be Us qum in partibul memhri prcesertim osseis ampulaiione vulnerutis notanda sunt. (Lugd. Batav. ISOiJ. 4to.) C/iarks Hunter. cases ttie cause may be tlie division or tearing of the nerve-tissue by the knife, or irritation from the BiDLiOQRAPHY.—Browii-Sdguard, art. Neu- roma, vol. iii. Holmes' Surgery. Dr. Robert W Hmiih, A Treatise on the Pathology, Dingn6sis and Treatment of Ncnromn, Dub. 1849. Paget on Fibrous Tumors, vol. i. of Holmes' Surijery, pp.'480,483. Carl Rokitanski/, PotliolOKicnl Anatomy, vol. iii. p. 464 Wedl's Pathological Histology, p. 605. Romberg on Diseases of the Nervous System, 1853, vol. i/Bn 27, 204. Wood, Edin. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. lii' Liston,On Practical Surgery, p. 294. Mayo's Human Pathology, p. 146. Lanfistaff in Med. Chir. Trnns. vol. xvi. p. 155. P. G. Van Hoorn, Lugd. Batav. 1803 Erichsen's Science and Art of Surgery, 4th Edit. &c'. Case of nrterio-venoHS cyst in the Popliteal nerve* Chas. Moore, and a case of multiple neuromata by tieptimus Sibley, Med and Chir. Trans. 1S6G. NIPPLES. In addition to what is stated upon the subject of sore nipples in the article MAi\tMA, I may observe that the nitrate of silver is an e.xcellent application for the cure of tin's painful and some- times obstinate complaint. Dr. Ilnnnay, of Glas- gow, strongly nvnmmpiuls its ii<!o in the following