0 0 2 PHARYNX, SURGIC (especially if any part of the liquid has penetrated to the etoraach) employ such a chemical prepara- tion as may tend to neutralise its effects, or employ sorao bland mucilaginous liquid for the same purpose. If the destruction of the mucous mem- brane be great, it will be dangerous to attempt to pass a stomach pump tube. Means such as are above described are energetically employed to allay the indaramatory action, and the strength is upheld by the use of milk and uninitating food by the mouth, and (if necessary) strong beef ten and brandy injections into the bowel. After the acute stage has passed, counter-irritation to the throat and nape of tiie neck, and the use of bougies, in order to retain the integrity of the passage till all fear of contraction is passed, will be required. If an impassable stricture becomes established, we have the most hopeful case for making an artificial open- ing into the stomach, as no disease is present which of its own nature tends to kill. In the chronic form of pharyngitis, which appears to be due to scrofula alone, remedies which will correct the cause must be employed, and the guarded use locally of caustic solutions. The in- flammation and ulceratipu which attend syphilis will demand treatment appropriate to that ma- lady. In those forms of disease which are accompanied by great effusion of plastic matter, the mechanical removal by forceps of the false membrane when loose,—the application of strong acid to the part, chlorate of potash internally and as a gargle,—nourishment and stimulants, and perhaps tracheotomy, form the outline of treatment demanded. Pharyngeal Abscess may result from inflamma- tion in the soft tissues, or be caused by the presence of disease in the base of the skull, or the upper cervical vertebrae. It occasionally occurs in the progress of low fevers, and is often connected with the scrofulous diathesis. It is most frequently situated behind the pharynx, and is thus termed " post-pharyngeal" or " retro-pharyngeal abscess." This affection is often a serious one, both from the danger it directly causes, and more especially from the more serious bone disease, of which it may be a mere consequent. It sometimes becomes estab- lished, in the most insidious manner, and is often difficult to recognise in its early stage. It occasion- ally forms with great rapidity, and irom the pressure it e.xercises on the larynx, threatens suffocation, especially when the patient is in the recumbent position. The peculiar nasal tone which abscesses in this situation sometimes cause may lead to a suspicion of their presence. When large, the voice may be suppressed and deglution impossible. These abscesses are in general small, but occa- sionally attain a great size. To recognise the presence of a pharyngeal abscess is not by any means always easy, although in general the finger will be able to distinguish the fluctuation. They ought to be freely opened, at aa early a period as the fluctuation becomes evident, by means of a bistoury covered up to near its point with adhesive plaster,—a precaution it is a.i well to take in order to avoid injury to the tongue. The pus that escapes is usually foetid, especially if the accumulation depends on affection of any of the bones. It has been pro- posed to open pharyngeal abscesses if possible from the side of the neck, from the fear (generally imaginary) that the food would gain admittance AL AFFECTIONS OF. 461- into the wound and set up further irritation Such n practice is certainly bad, unless the pus point in the neck. If- any feur really exists as to the entrance of the ingesta into the wound made within the canal, a tube may for a short time be passed beyond it, when food is to be introduced. Pharyngeal abscesses should alwaj's be opened early, as if abandoned (although they may burst spontaneously into the pharynx yet) there is great risk of their burrowing far and wide among the tissues and, it may be, opening ultimately in the neck, into the anterior mediastinum and pericar- dium (as in one case which fell under the notice of the writer), or into the cavity of the chest. After evacuation, disinfecting gargles will be of use, and means should be employed to remove the cause of the accumulation, whatever that may be. Ulceration may follow inflammation in the pharynx, and is not uncommon in scrofulous children whose health has been much depressed. It is occasionally in such cases very extensive and destructive, and very difficult to manage. It may spread far and wide, penetrating into the nostrils, and eventuating in destruction of the bones. It more commonly, however, remains superficial, and causes much foBtor in the breath and expectoration, an annoying cough, and depression. It is to be treated qs other strumous affections, with the addition of chlorate of potash or chlorinated gargles, and the use of the former internally with tonics, cod liver oil, &c. Caustic should be avoided if possible, in these cases, or at least very spar- ingly used. Syphilis, either in its secondary or tertiary stage, is in adults not an unfrequent cause of pharyngeal ulceration, The ulcer is then often deep and foul, and may be attended with extensive sloughing. It may cause much difficulty in swal- lowing. Its character would be rendered apparent by its association with other evidences of the con- stitutional cause, and its treatment would depend on that connection, and on the stage of the affection with which it is associated. The local application of nitric acid and the use of chlorinated gargles will be beneficial. During cicatrisation, if the ulceration has been extensive, annoying adhesions may occur, causing displacement of the canal and partial closure. Tumors of various kinds are met with in the pharynx. These are frequently malignant. Thev may be of the character of fatty growths, or of fibrous or malignant polypi, and originate in the pharynx, or be connected with the posterior nares or the oesophagus. Tumors in this region may spring from the base of the skull, or the vertebree or have their seat in the loose sub-mucous cellular tissue, and they cause a greater or less impediment to the functions of deglutition and respiration, ac- cording to their size and position. They may also affect the voice, cause regurgitation, or vomiting of the food, irritating cough, and even push the tongue forward, so as to cause it to project from the mouth. These growths, which arc commonly pedunculated and narrow-stemmed, may be in~ general detected by drawing the tongue well for- ward, or by introducing the finger into the throat. They demand removal by twisting, division with scissors, strangulation with the simple ligature or the " tumor tourniquet," or it may be by in- cising the soft palate, or even by excising a portion of the upper jaw. It is fortunately seldom neces- sary to have recourse to such violent measures as