799 TUMOR. j ouiids and three quarters. The patient, a woman 4-t years of age, went on very well for eight days ; but, on the ninth, she was constantly complaining of uneasiness in the foot of the ati'ected limb ; her pulse became weak and intermitting ; and she sank in the most unexpected manner. (See Journ. fur Cldrtirgie. Herattsgcgchen von D. L. Graefe und D. 1\ F. Wallker, b. i. p. 106, &c., 8vo. Berlin, 1820 ; or Quarlerli/ Journal of Fo- reign jSIediciue, &c., vol. ii. p. 373, &c.) In the autumn of 1823, M. Bc'clard is stated to have removed the whole of the parotid gland, which is described as being in a truly scirrhous state: the disease, however, returned, and the pa- tient ultimately died of it. (See Arch, gin, de jl/erf. Janvier 1824.) Dr. Warren, of the United States, relates an in- teresting but formidable case, in which he removed a glandular tumor from the neck, situated so closely to the vessels and nerves that it was diffi- cult to distinguish them. The jugular vein was obliterated, the carotid artery diminished in size, and the pneumogastric nerve so closely mixed with it, that, though separated from, it was not wholly cleared of the tumor ; while the gustatory nerve required tobe divided, and the pharynx was opened, yet the patient recovered from the immediate effects of the operation. After an interval of some months, however, ulceration took place, and destroyed the patient, about one year from the date of the opera- tion. (See Warren, on Tumors, &c., 8vo. Bos- ton, 1837.) [Another case is related by Dr. Warren in which, during an operation for the removal of a large tumor from the cervical region, the internal jugular vein was cut and tied. (P. 182.)] In the removal of a tumor from the neck. Dr. A. H. Stevens, Professor of Surgery in the Uni- versity of New York, had occasion also to tie the internal jugular vein at an earlier period than Dr. Warren. " A man of middle age (he states) came under my care in the New York Hospital, during the last winter (1830), with an extensive flattened tumor under the sterno-mastoid muscle, formed of the chain of lymphatic glands, which accom- panies the great vessels on the left side of the neck, in a state of great enlargement. It had been the subject of a previous unsuccessful ope- ration, and was then alarmingly obstructing the powers of deglutition and respiration. In the course of my operation for the removal of this tumor, after it had been detached, except at its inner and posterior edge, I drew the tumor out- wards and forwards, and divided a vein of con- siderable size passing horizontally outwards, near its junction with the internal jugular. Half an ounce of venous blond escaped, and in an instant afterwards, a peculiar sound was heard, like tiiat occasioned by drawing into a syringe the last por- tions of water from a basin. It was a moment of intense anxiety, for the fate of Dupuytren's pa- tient was fresh in my recollection. I immediately placed my finger on the aperture in the vessel, seized the pulse with the other hand, and watched the patient's countenance. All seemed well, &c. After a moment's deliberation, I determined to pass a ligature around the internal jugular, below and above the junction of the wounded branch. It was accordingly separated from the par vagum and carotid with the blunt point of an eyed probe, armed with a double ligature, and one of the ligatures was secured below, the other" above, the wounded vessel. The operation, of which little remained to be done, was then completed. The man suffered from cough and difficult respiration between the fourth and seventh days after tlie ope- ration, for which he was twice bled, and saline purgatives administered. The ligatures came away on the fourteenth day, and the case went on without any peculiarities. " If the par vagum can be divided on one side, without endangering life—a question, I believe, not yet settled by positive experiment—the propo- sition will be established, that many tumors in the side of the neck (the removal of which is now deemed impracticable) may be successfully extir- pated." (^Hees's Amer. ed. of this Dictionary; Suppleinentan/ Appendix.) I suspect, that many accounts published of the removal of the whole parotid gland did not truly relate to the body itself, certain portions of which seem to be beyond the reach of the knife in tha living subject ; for who could cut out the portions ofit between the articulation of the lower jaw and the pterygoid processes ? Such accounts, I think, refer to the taking away of tumors which have grown, and more or less displaced, or produced, absorption of the parotid. I find in Listen's Practical Surgery several good remarks on tu- mours formed over the parotid, and behind the ramus and angle of the jaw. " These (says he), whether enlargements of the lymphatic glands, or adventitious formations, are bound down by a strong, condensed, cellular sheath, or fascia, and also by the fibres of the platysma myoides, which pass upon the side of the face. Their growth and prominence externally is equally extensive among the deep-seated parts. The parotid gland is dis- placed and absorbed ; the diseased mass is im- bedded in its substance, and ultimately occupies its place. The vascular supply is abundant, and the nerves become intimately attached to the pos- terior surface of the condensed cellular cyst. The tumor is firmly fixed in all ways by its strong in- vestments, firm adhesions, and by its being, as it were, dovetailed by its processes between the bones. I have sometimes, after the removal of tumors of long standing in this situation, found exposed the whole cavity betwixt the mastoid pro- cess and the ramus of the jaw, the styloid and pterygoid processes, muscles, &c. The interfe- rence with these growths (parotid tumors, as they are called, though the parotid gland itself is not very subject to disease) requires no small degree of consideration. If there be reason to suspect that the disease is of a malignant nature, and not strongly limited by a cellular cyst, no interference is admissible. If, on the contrary, it be at all moveable, has advanced slowly, possesses a smooth surface, and is firm (neither of stony hardness nor pulpy), then the operation may bo contem- plated. A very free division of the superimposed parts is essential to the success of tiie proceeding. For this object, a perpendicular incision is first made, and others added, so as to form two or more flaps. The incisions must penetrate to the sub- stance of the tumor, and divide its immediate in- vestments ; it being a more easy matter to turn a diseased part out of its cellular cyst, than to dissect that out of the parts to which it adheres, and from whence it draws its supplies. " The dissection should now be carried deeply