from a swelling on tlie back of the hand that had probably been part of a tendon sheath, and had inflamed. They are composed of fibrilie of or- dinary type, and have hollow centres. In another, in which many little bodies were in the wrist-joint about the size of flattened peas, their surface had a cartilage-like appearance, and, when cut through, their substance was seen to consist of concentric layers of fibrin, with a small central hollow. In other preparations of larger size the central hollow has disappeared, and the whole mass seems homo- geneous, and resembles cartilage. There is also a fine example of the result of synovial inflammation of the-knee-joint, in which a large portion of the cartilaginous covering of the joint-ends of the bones has been destroyed; but on several parts of the synovial capsule numerous bunches of grape- shaped growths, with more or less thick stems, have formed, and one of these, as big as a bean, has become detached, and is loose in the cavity of the joint. Mr. South does not think, however, that this condition can be fairly taken as an example of the ordinary mode of production of loose carti- lages, though it certainly explains the process very well. (See System of Surgery by J. M. Chelius, translated with notes by J. F. South, vol. i. p. 708.) There is a preparation of the knee-joint in St. Mary's Hospital Museum, laid open with the patella turned down, in which the synovial mem- brane is actually studded with melonseed-shaped growths, no doubt the result of former attacks of synovitis. There is also a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital, where seven of these bodies are seen in various stages of growth, attached to the crucial ligaments and sy- novial membrane. In regard to their origin, Mr. Barwell remarks that " It would be hardly war- rantable to assert that all false bodies in joints are of rheumatic origin; but it is certain that they are chiefly found in connection with that diathesis; they are very fully and largely developed in the disease called chronic rheumatic arthritis, and are in that malady frequently bony; moreover, they are found external to the articular cavity, that is, developed and lying among the peri-articular tis- sues." (See Diseases of the Joints by Richard Barwell, p. 206.)] Sir Benjamin Brodie met with two cases, in which the loose bodies were of a different nature, and had a different origin from that referred to by Sir E. Home. Sometimes disease causes a long ridge to be formed, like a small exostosis, round the margin of the cartilaginous surfaces of the joint. In the two examples alluded to, this preternatural growth of bone had taken place, and in consequence of the >notion.of the parts, portions of it had been broken off, and lay loose in the cavity of the joint. {Alcd Chir Trans, vol. iv. p. 276, and Path. Obs. ed. v. p. 2S5.) And in a more recent publication he remarks that, in the majority of cases which he has met with, no inflammation preceded the formation ot these preternatural substances, and therefore he thmka ,t probable that, in some instances, they Zf^r^'w '.'■''r'^T ''—'^M some dilVerent process. He further observes, that they appear to be situated originally either on the external sur- ■lace, or in the substance of the synovial mem- brane, since, before they become detached, a thin (Pa,l. tmay be traced over them. KPath. and Sury. Observ. p. 250, ed. 5.) This statement also agrees with the views formerly JOINTS, DISEASES OF. 115 promulgated by Laennec and B^clard (see Andral, Anai. Pathol, t. i. p. 28G), and with that of Cruveilhier. (See Anat. Pathol.) The latter gentleman indeed has given an engraving, repre- senting some of them as situated not only in the synovial membrane, but also in the cellular tissue external to it. All those which become detached and loose in the joint are covered by synovial mem- brane, and for some time were adherent by means of a slender pedicle formed of it. (See Mayo's Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 108.) [Rokitansky speaks of these bodies under the name of articular mice. He describes two va- rieties of them, and believes they have different origins. The first variety, comprehending the fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous, some of which con- tain bony concretions, he believes to originate either in the cellular tissue external to the synovial membrane, or in the substance of the synovial membrane itself. As they increase in size, they press the membrane into the joint, becoming covered with a replication of it; by-and-by they retain a communication with the membrane only by a small pedicle, a condition not nnfrequently revealed by dissection; and eventually, by the pedicle being ruptured, or worn away by friction, they become free in the joint. They have a proper synovial covering, which often bears a trace of this mode of development in being deficient at the spot where they were separated from the pedicle, it is there completed by loose shreds of cellular tissue. Those of the second variety are fibrillated and albuminous coagulations and precipitates, which are believed to take place in consequence of some abnormal products in the synovial fluid. They are distinguished by their uniform smoothness through- out, by a delicate albuminous investing membrane, and frequently by their manifest arrangement in concentric laminae. Rokitansky therefore agrees with Laennec, Be'clard, Cruveilhier, and Sir B. Brodie in regard to the first variety being formed on the outsid°e of the synovial membrane. (See Path. Anai. vol. iii. ■ Sydenliam Soc. Edit. p. 41 & 295.) Indeed this is the general opinion of pathologists at the present day. One of the latest and best accounts of their minute structiu^e is by Mr. Rainey, who examined several successfully removed from the elbow-joint by Mr. Solly, eight in number. To recapitulate : These loose bodies in joints may originate I. In the forni of small plastic tumours outside of the articulation (the most common), or within the synovial membrane itself. 2. From some morbid deposit within the joint derived from the synovial fluid, or perhaps in some rare instances from blood. 3. From a fragment of bono or of cartilage de- tached by violence.] The symptoms by means of which we recognise this affection are seldom obscure. When the forma- tion of the extraneous substances follows a fall or blow upon the joint, the complaint begins with a swelling of the surrounding soft parts, and upon the subsidence of this swelling the presence of the little cartilaginous tumours is indicated by certain symptoms which are peculiar to them. In persnns who liavo had no blow or fall upon the knee, the disease Bometinies commcncos with a more or less acute pain in the joint, with or with- out swelling of the surrounding soft parts, and which affection is usually regarded as rheu- matism. To these first symptoms, which aro I 2