188 LARYNX, OUNDS OF. grow very insidiously, and death takes place •without the true ailment having been discovered. Polypous growths in the larj'nx, if left alone, in- variably prove fatal. The solitary ease or two in which they have been spontaneously expelled can hardly be considered to invalidate this statement. The rule then is to remove them. This can some- times in favourable cases be accomplished by tlie mouth. The tuniour has been seized as it pre- sented itself by the side of the epiglottis, and its pedicle cut or twisted so as to allow of its entire removal, the point from which it grew being after- wards touched with a strong solution of nitrate of silver. Most commonly the windpipe has to be opened in order to allow of the growth being reached, and this opening is made in whatever part of the tube best suits the site pf the polypus. Ehrmann re- commends us to perform tracheotomy in the first instance in such cases, and having thus secured free access of air to the lungs, to split the cricoid cartilage, and prolong the incision as far upwards as may be required to remove the tumour; the latter part of the incision and the removal of the growth being, however, postponed till the fatigue and exhaustion of the first proceeding is recovered from. Having reached the growth, we may either remove it by excision, or cauterise it if it has a broad base. Warty cauliflower-like excrescences, similar to those so often seen on the vulva, occur in the larynx, and are of venereal origin. They give rise to obstruction, but have no other distinctive sign. If remedies addressed to the constitution fail to remove them, they must be got at in the same way as was described with regard to polypi. Car- tilaginous tumours, if they obstruct the windpipe, must be removed in like manner. Larynx, Injuries of the. The larj^nx generally participates in the severe injury which the pharynx receives from the accidental inhalation of hot steam, or flame, or the attempt to swallow caustic solutions or boiling water. The most common of these imtoward events is that in which children try to drink from a kettle or tea-pot containing boiling liquid. In such a case (and the same is true of caustic solutions) a spasmodic action of the pharyngeal muscles almost immediately rejects the fluid by the mouth and nose, so that little or none passes downwards, but part is thrown into the upper part of the larynx, which pait of the wind- pipe generally alone receives immediate injury. So soon as tiie violent pain caused by the act has subsided, there is usually an interval before the influence of the injury becomes fully apparent, and then violent inflammation and sub-mucous effusion sets in, and ere long threatens suffocation. The inflammation may ultimately invade the bronchi and lungs, but in the first instance the danger arises from the inflammation and effusion in the upper part of the windpipe. The mucous membrane of the mouth and tongue is in such cases raised into blisters, and presents to the eye a white or ash-coloured appearance ; afterwards it becomes sloughy, S'^ft, and easily detaciied. In the treatment of this accident, some command over the iiiflaiumution has been said occasionally to have been obtained by the use of leeches and blisters to the throat; and Mr. Wallace, of Dublin, and others in imitation of him, have advised calomel and opium'to be given from the outset, in small oft-repeated doses; but as the first mentioned remedies have been by no means universally bene- ficial, and as their employment greatly interferes with the performance of the important operative step immediately to be referred to; and further, as in such cases the difficulty and pain of swallowing is considerable, and the time too limited for any advantage to be obtained from calomel and opium (at least as regards the immediate danger), the true and only reliable remedy, if the symptoms are for- midable, is bronchotomy. This should in all severe cases be performed at once, and not delayed till its performance is of no avail. When the immediate and pressing danger is thus overcome, we may employ remedies to subdue the inflammation and its consequences with more hope, perseverance and success. Sestier strongly advocates cold agents introduced into the mouth, hot mustard pediluvia, and afterwards calomel and opium to remove effusion. The treatment of those cases in which steam, caustic solutions, or flame have been drawn into the gullet and windpipe, is precisely the same as that which has been just related. Violent contusions of the larynx, as by a blow, may cause very serious symptoms, in consequence generally of the spasm of the glottis which is set up. Urgent dyspnoea may then arise and demand bronchotomJ^ Paralysis of the larynx may in like manner arise from violence or result from irritation in the digestive organs or nervous system. If the cause is corrected, the laryngeal affection will disappear. The cartilages of the larynx and the hyoid bone may be fractured by violence, or the latter may be dislocated. Fractures may be followed bj' severe inflammation and embarrassed deglutition and respiration. The fractured part is to be " set" by manipulation, and the efifects treated according to their nature. Dislocation of the hyoid is put right by throwing the head backwards so as to stretch the muscles, and then, gradually relaxing the lower jaw, and at the same time manipulating gently, so as to restore the normal relationship of the bone. If from any cause the fractured or dislocated por- tions cannot be easily restored, and if dangerous pressure is produced on the windpipe, the trachea may have to be opened in order to overcome this danger. Wounds of Larynx. Wounds of the larynx may be of any of the various kinds into which wounds are divided, but incised wounds, self- inflicted or caused by a murderer, are those which most usually fall under the notice of the surgeon. Punctured wounds of this region are however occasionally met with, and are chieflj' dangerous on account of the inflammation and emphysema which may follow them. The constant movement of the windpipe in respiration is very apt to destroy the parallelism between the wound in the canal and that in the overlying parts; and the cellular tissue external to the windpipe is so loose that emphysema is readily produced. Incised wounds, if they are placed above the hyoid bone, will enter the mouth and probably wound the tongue. Suicidal wounds are generally situated between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage. They are for the most part oblique in direction and frequently neither extensive nor