816 ULCERS tliat being emploj'ed fail. After .a time we are alile in manj' instances to return with advantage to tlie remedy we set out with. So soon as the sore ceases to respond to the application we are for the moment using, we should employ another, and thus by varying the remedy judiciously we advance the cure. The very act of changing tiic dressings is to some extent stimulating, and should only be re- peated more frequently than actual necessity de- mands when such an action is desired. Great gentleness in manipulation is called for here, as in all surgical interference, and it is especially requisite to avoid injuring the tender granulations in a healing sore. We must renew the dressings so as to obtain cleanliness and to promote the patient's comfort, as well as to ensure the accurate adjustment of the dressings ; but we must avoid interfering too fre- quently, otherwise we will irritate, increase the suppuration, and injure the granulations, and so hinder healing. We should not scrub, or in fact interfere with the surface of the ulcer, wlien being dressed, further than allowing a stream of lukewarm water (if necessary, from the foulness of the sore, having a disinfectant in solution) to flow over it ; then wipe the discharge from the skin round its margin, and apply our new dressings. It is not desired to remove the pus which adheres to the granulations, but the excess merely, and this the gentle stream of water will accomplish. Various operations have been performed in order to close ulcers which were from their size, position, or nature peculiarly difficult to heal. Plastic opera- tions (" Elkoplasty," as it has been absurdly termed), either by sliding or transposition, have been employed for this purpose; and incisions made parallel to the sore, and at some distance from its borders, have been found useful in allowing the tissues around to be relaxed and the edges of the nicer approximated. The incision is carried into the plane of sub-cutaneous cellular tissue, and should exceed the ulcer in its length. When healed, the part where the sore was placed will require careful and methodic support till the new tissues are quite consolidated. If this is not done, the ulcer will readily reappear. It is occasionally, though rarely, requisite to amputate limbs on account of ulcers which, from their great size and incurability, render life miser- able or threaten to destroy it. In old chronic cases of an inveterate character the textures get so dis- organised, and the very bones destroyed, that nothing short of separation of the limb can save the rest of the body. Recovery after amputation is then commonly rapid from tlie rebound after so long and serious a drain. There exists in not a few cases of old ulcers a strong popular prejudice, with which not a few professional men sympathise, against the closing of old ulcers. The "long existence of these sores is thought to beget a claim on the economy which cannot be denied without risk; and in some cases, occurring in old men, they have been supposed to exercise a vicarious action with the urinary secre- tion. If the whole truth were told, we suspect that in not a few cases the practitioner disapproves of closing the sore more because his applications fail to affect it than from any real objection he has to bring it about. The patient, however, not un- commonly dreads the closure of the sore. The must extensive experience would probably not Buflico to give anyone a right to dogmatise on the point, yet surgeons of the largest experience de- clare their want of belief in the popular idea. It has certainly never fallen to the lot of the v/riter, among the very large number of old ulcers lie has seen closed, to observe one case of danger arise therefrom, even in old and feeble persons, and when the ulcer was an eczematous one, to which the objection is said chiefly to refer. It is to be remembered that these sores do not, and cannot be healed quickly, but, on the contrary, that they are very slow and gradual in their progress of amendment; that their continuance often depends solely on a local cause; and that we have the means of guarding against internal congestions by the management of the diet, maintaining a free action of the bowels, and possibly applying a few leeches. It has been proposed to insert issues near the ulcer (which is the only effectual way of using them for such a purpose), or in some dis- tant part to obviate harm, and we are instructed to re-establish the original drain by applying a fly- blister in the event of evil threatening. Some of the cases in which it is said internal congestions followed on the closure of old sores were probably mere coincidences, while the pernicious influence of prolonged recumbency (so often seen in the treat- ment of accidents in the old) had likely more to do in causing the congestion of the lungs than the healing of the ulcer. Let us now add to the foregoing some remarks on the management of the difi'erent classes of ulcers before described. 1. Healing ulcers, as a rule, require only pro- tection from the air, cleanliness, the support of the capillary vessels which a bandage secures, and rest. In very many cases, if properly bandaged, the patient can follow his occupation without harm. Water-dressing is especially useful in these cases, particularly when applied, as was before described, by means of strips of lint. 2. Ulcers failing to heal from excess of action.— As these ulcers occur in very different and even opposite states of the system—in the full-fed and plethoric and in the starved, overworked, and ir- ritable—the general treatment must vary greatly, and be regulated by the condition of the patient. If there is inflammation, it must be subdued by appropriate internal, and above all local, anti- phlogistic measures—elevation, rest, soothing ap- pliances, such as fomentations or poultices, and possibly leeches (cautiously, however, and only if urgently required, and not close to the sore, but at a short "distance); scarifications or punctures in rare cases; cold, too, in the form of evaporating lotions, ice, &c. No constriction or pressure by bandages should be used till the too violent action has sub- sided. Intcrnallv, if the patient be of a plethoric habit, salines, spare diet, &c., will be called for; but if, on the contrary, the local excess of action be but one evidence of an enfeebled vitality, then generous food and tonics will be more appropriate. Anv ulcer may become inllamcd, and demand the measures above referred to for a time. Opium given freely has a very beneficial effect on these inllamcd sores, and should not be omitted. lUc state of the tongue, pulse, skin, and secretions wiU guide us as to diet and stimulants. Poultices made of bruised succulent vegetables, such as raw potatoes, carrots, turnips, leeks, cVc., applied cold, are often used in Scotland with ad- vantage in these cases. Hot applications of the