926 VENEREAL DISEASE. 3. Mr. Wallace deems it unnecessary to exa- mine the third nrgument, because, supposing yaws, sivens, and some other diseases to exist in other countries, and that each of them arises from a spe- cific and distinct morbid poison, no argument can be deduced from these circumstances of the plu- rality of venereal poisons. 4. In relation to the fourth argument, Mr. Wallace observes, that it does not follow of ne- cessity that, because the disease produced by one moibid poison exhibits great uniformity of cha- racter, that produced by. another should follow a similar course. Waiving, however, the considera- tion of this question, and granting to the advo- cates of the doctrine of a plurality of venereal poisons every advantage afforded by the analogy of other diseases produced by morbid poisons, Mr. Wallace proceeds to inquire whether diseases caused by morbid poisons are, as stated in the argument, always uniform in their appearances ai-,d progress. He begins with noticing the ad- mitted truth, that impressions which result from causes exactly similar, produce upon different per- sons verj' dissimilar consequences, as illustrated in the effects of punctured wounds. In cow-pox and small-pox, which depend upon specific morbid poisons, he points out the numerous varieties and anomalies to which these diseases, as well as the venereal, are liable. Amongst other inferences made by Mr. Wallace are the following:—!. The effects of the morbid poison which produces the vaccine disease are subject to numerous varieties ; and therefore analogous varieties in the appearance of the symptoms which result from the syphilitic virus, cannot be considered as any proof of the existence of different venereal poisons. 2. However various the eruptions may be which are caused by the venereal poison, they do not exhibit greater varieties than those produced by the variolous poison; and as this poison, influenced by extrinsic circumstances, is sufficient to produce all the varieties of small-pox, one poison, if in- 'Huenccd by similar circumstances, may produce analogous varieties of syphilis. " Should it be urged against the above conclusion, that remark- able varieties of vaccina and variola are seldom to be met with, but that remarkable varieties of sy- philitic diseases are of daily occurrence, I would answer, that this circumstance will be easily ex- plained to the reflecting reader by the number of modifying causes, which influence venereal mala- dies, being much greater than those which influ- ence variola or vaccinia. " To adduce one illustration : when the matter or Ijmph of small-pox or cow-pox is used for in- oculation, the greatest care is in general taken, not only to obtain it at a certain age, and from a vesicle or pustule, possessed of what are considered the specific characters, but also to insert it into a healthy subject; whereas the venereal infection is applied during various states of the health of the'recipient, and the poison is taken during every stage, and from every possible form of disease." This last remark may not, however, strengthen Mr. Wallace's views, as it implies differences and modifications of the virus itself, which is, in reality, an approximation to the doctrine of a plurality of poisons. The san.e idea was long ago suggested, and especittlly by Mr. Wellbank, as will be pre- sently seen. 6. The assertions in the fifth argument, for the doctrine of Mr. Carmichael, Mr. Wallace sets down as not having been verified by the experience of other practitioneis. (See W, Wallace, On tite Ven. Dis. p. 14-24.) In a very ingenious paper by Mr. Wellbank, I find several observations well deserving attention. Amongst other things, he suggests a plan of inves- tigating venereal diseases, which, if carefully fol- lowed up, might throw considerable light on their diagnosis. "Instead of recording with laboured minuteness the resemblance or dissimilarity, con- fessedly sometimes fallacious, of primary sores, of eruptions, or of other really or seemingly conse- cutive diseases, in the cases oldiffcrent individuals, we should (says he) faihfully chronicle the diver- sity of disease existing at the same time in i/icsajne person. We should note, for instance, the various character and progress of a phagedsenic sore, as it attacks different tissues, or the phenomena of se- veral of these sores, when they have occurred &t the same time, in different situations, from the same infection. Let us also record the multiform secondary effects of the same disease, contempo- raneous in their appearance or coexistent in the same system, and various as they are manifested in absoi bents, mucous membrane, skin, cellular tissue, fibrous membrane, or in the bones. From re- peated observation of collective phenomena, we shall soon arrive at the inference that many affec- tions, often noticed in conjunction, but various in their apparent characters, are in reality the con- stant result of one or other distinct stimulus, acting upon a diversity of organisation. By a patient and unbiassed prosecution of this mode of mquiry, we cannot fail soon to acquire diagnostic data, which will enable us to solve some of the most difficult problems in the distinction of venereal complaints." (Med.Chir. Trans.\o\. xiii. p. 566.) Amongst other doctrines, Mr. Hunter inculcates that the venereal matter, when taken into the constitution, produces an irritation, which is ca- pable of being continued, independent of a conti- nuance of absorption, and Ike consliiidion has no power of relief; therefore a hies venerea continues to increase." The same criterion was proposed by Mr. Abernethy, who states that the "constitu- tional symptoms of the venereal disease are ge- nerally progressive, and never disappear unless medicine be emploj-ed." {Surgical Ohs. p. 137.| And notwithstanding some dissent may be traced in both old and modern writers, from the beliet that mercury was absolutely essential to the cure of the venereal disease, and an opposite conclusion might easily have been drawn from the whole his- tory of this subject, including the practice ol former and present times, the contrary hypothesis was that always taught in all the great medical schools of this country, even down to so late a period as fifty years ago. But the error no longer prevails ; and no facts are more coniple «ij established, than that mercury, however use u > may frequently be in the treatment of the veucre disease, is not absolutely necessary for the cur either of the primary or secondary. P'"^ ' and that the disease, so far from al".''?^ t 3 worse, unless mercury be administered, " ' gets vUll without the aid of this or any otjie medicine. If any man yet doubt ti e g n^^^^^^^ truth of this statement, let him '"'P«'''^f ^.rward in the many facts and arguments brought lorw^i