24 INFLAM to a change in the state of the blood itself, pro- duced by the action of the salt—a change consist- ing in inspissation of the plasma as regards its albuminous and fibrinous constituents." He was led into this belief from the fact that the adhesive- ness of the corpuscles, out of the bodj-, is increased by the addition to tlie blood of albumen, gum,&c. He continues : " The mode in which the salt acts in producing inspissation of its plasma I consider to be principally by withdrawing water from the blood by endosmose." {}V. Jones, On the State of the Blood and Blood-i-essels in Inflammation, Guy's Hosp. Reports, New Ser., vol. vii.) But the error involved in this purely mechanical view is fully exposed by Mr. Lister, who observes that not only are the effects of other irritants, which cannot act by endosmose, as chloroform, mustard, and especi- ally mechanical and chemical irritation, precisely similar to those of the salt; but also the unbroken web of the frog's foot is only with great difficulty permeable by liquids. Some substances, as chloro- form, which produce rapid stasis, with well-marked cohesiveness of the corpuscles, actually diminish or entirelj"- destroy this cohesiveness when added to the blood out of the body. "That the effect on the blood within the yessels of a part inflamed by chloroform is secondary to a change in the tissues is further proved by the circumstance that ab- normal accumulation of slowly-moving corpuscles may last for hours together without stagnation, as a consequence of the application of this irritant for an extremely brief period. Long after all the blood which could possibly have been directly acted on by the chloroform has left the vessels, successive fresh portions continue to experience precisely similar changes in passing through the irritated area." {Lister, On the Early Stages of Inflamma- tion, Phil. Trans. Part ii. for 1858, p. 663.) Kaltenbriinner, in fact, long ago pointed out the relation of the degree of inflammation and of its accompanying fever to the intensity of the local irritation." He showed that the first effect of a drop of alcohol applied to a frog's foot was merely acceleration of the circulation—active congestion. If the dose of alcohol be increased, the congestion increases, and extends over a larger space, till at length points of stagnation appear. And if the dose be still further augmented, not only does the inflammation extend, but the whole circulating system partakes in the excitement. The circula- tion in the web of the opposite foot is as much accelerated as in the foot irritated. " If the word congestion had not a local meaning (says he), we might call fever a general congestion." {Kal- tenhrunner''s Rij)ert. Gen. d'Anatomie, torn, iv.) Mr. Paget, in comparing and confirming previous observations, endeavoured to set aside the objec- tion founded on the circumstance that the frog, on which most of those observations had been made, is a cold-blooded animal, by making his experiments on the bat's wing. He found only a few small and unimportant differences, depending chiefly on • the peculiar arrangement of the vessels, which have much freer anastomoses than in the frog's foot. (Paget, Lectures on Iiflammation.) Not long after this, a very important addition to the knowledge of the subject was made by Dr. H. Weber, of Giessen, who discovered that complete stasis, in all respects identical with that observed in the ordinary experiments, may be induced in the frog's foot by irritation, after the entire arrest of the circidation by ligature {Weber, in Muller's Jrchiven, 1852) ; and Schuler afterwards ascer- tained that the same thing occurs in an ampu- tated limb. {Wurzhurg Verlumdlungen, 1854.) There is now such a general agreement as to the principal phenomena of the circulation in inflamma- tion, that a general account of them, culled from the works of the later writers, may be given. For the purpose of observation, various methods of irritation have been employed :—mechanical violence ; the galvanic shock ; desiccation of the tissues; dry heat; the actual cautery; hot water; intense cold ; and numerous chemical irritants, such as alcohol, caustic ammonia, a strong solution of common salt, carbonic acid, acetic acid, tincture of iodine, chloroform or its vapour, oil of turpentine, mustard, capsicum, tincture of cantharides, and croton oil—anything, in short, which impairs the integrity of the tissues. If, then, the web be irritated by any of these means, the first effect observed is, generally, con- striction of the small arteries and veins of the part. The amount and duration of this constriction (which of course does not affect the non-muscular capil- laries) is very variable, depending on the nature of the irritant and the degree of irritation. Mr. Wharton Jones mentions four varieties of it. " 1 St. Constriction may take place slowly, and be slowly succeeded by the normal width." This is the effect of sulphate of atropia. "2nd. Constric- tion may quickly take place, and be soon succeeded by the normal width, or a width not much ex- ceeding the normal," as after the application of mo- derate cold, mechanical irritation, and galvanism. " 3rd, Constriction either does not take place at all, or it rapidly yields to great dilatation," as is seen after a strong solution of chloride of sodium, o<c a solution of sulphate of copper mixed with vinum opii, or spirit of wine. " 4th. Dilatation slowly yields to permanent constriction." This is the eftect of concentrated sulphate of copper. {Guy's Hosp. Rep. vol. vii. p. 8.) The constric- tion produced by the actual cautery lasts for several hours. But that after many stimuli it is very slight and transient, is proved by the fact that it appears to have been altogether overlooked by so careful an observer as Mr. Travers, who not only makes no mention of it anywhere, but distinctly says : " The first effect of a drop of stinuilant fluid or of a wound upon a transparent web is to arrest the circulation of the part: the vessels are dilated, and in proportion their fulness is increased, and their pink colour heightened." ( The Physiology of Inflammation.) And Virchow says : " In small vessels with few muscular fibres, it often seems as if the stimuli induced no contraction, in con- sequence of the extreme rapidity with wh'ch a state of relaxation is seen to set in." ( Virclioiu's Cellular Pathology, by Chance, 1860, p. 119.) The veins appear in general, according to Paget, to contract less than the arteries, and in the frog often not at all. The same observer states that, after constriction has yielded to dilatation, a higher stimulus than before is requisite to reproduce it. In some of Mr. Lister's experiments, however, water of the same temperature (100°), produced constriction of the same vessels again and again (see Lister, ut supra, p. 659)—a difference due, perhaps, to the more rapid exhaustion of irritability in the warm-blooded animal. Some of the early observers of these phenomena