688 TALIPES proverbially flatfooted, and frequently suffer from its worst elTects. Dancers frequently exhibit this condition, but suffer less in consequence of their great muscular strength, in some degree, compen- sating for the weakness of the feet. Class 2.—Rachitic valgus is, at the time of its production, essentially similar to the form just de- scribed as depending upon ligamentous and mus- cular debility, but becomes of a more severe and intractable nature in consequence of a terations occurring in the form of the bones. It is always as- sociated with rachitic curvature of the long bones, especially with the sharp, flattened, anterior cur- vature of the tibia and fibula in their lower and middle thirds. Rickets being an affection pecu- liar to childhood, rachitic valgus can only take place at this period of life, and, like the other deformities of rickets, remains as a persistent con- dition after the spontaneous cure of the disease and solidification of tiie bones. Class '6.—Paralytic valgus.—In that peculiar and obscure form of paralysis which occurs only in childhood, and has been already described as in- favldc paralysis, and which furnishes us so large a proportion of all the non-congenital deformities of the foot, the anterior tibial is sometimes the only muscle paralysed, and then the foot becomes everted, producing valgus. Occasionally, the mus- cles of the calf, as well as the tibialis anticus and posticus muscles, are also paralysed; in such cases the tuberosity of the os calcis falls down, and cal- caneo-valgus is produced—a most intractable de- formity. Paralytic valgus of one foot frequently coexists with paralytic equino-varus of the opposite foot. ~, . ■ J v. Class 4.—Spasmodic valgus—lh\s is undoubt- edly the rarest form of non-congenital valgus, but it occasionally occurs in the class of cases already described as deformities rviihrigid 7«!(sc/es, generally consequent upon fits or con\ulsions during teeth- ing; the deformity, however, nmre frequently pro- duced in this class of cases, is talipes equinus or equinO'Varus. Class b.—Tranmatic wfcias.—Persistent ever- sion of the foot is a frequent result of injuries involving the ankle-joint and the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula, such as fractures of these bones, or fracture and dislocation combined. In ■ these cases, eversion of the foot from the ankle- ioint is first produced, a condition different from that described as essential to valgus, in which the transverse tarsal joint is the principal centre ot motion However, in these traumatic eversmns ol the foot, the arch gradually gives way, in conse- quence of the weight of the body being thrown upon the inner border, and a true valgus is pro- duced, in consequence of which the patient is sometimes unable to walk more than a short dis- tance, even some years after the accident. Class 6.— Valgus consequent upon disease of the " antde-joinl or surrowidiiig ^iss«es.—Persistent ever- sion of the foot, which subsequently becomes flat- tened in the form of valgus, is a common result ot chronic inflammatory affections of the ankle-joint, and also of strumous abscesses in the neighbour- liood of the joint, periostitis, caries, or necrosis of the fibula, etc. The causes nameti, therefore, either directly or indirectly affect the joint in the produc- tion of the deformity, and the prognosis and treat- ment of such cases will vary accordingly. Numerical Importance. — Non-congcniial valgus is the most frequent deformity of the font, next to talipes equinus, which constitutes nearly half of all the non-congenital cases of talipes. In the table of 1009 eases of non-congenital deformi- ties of the foot previously referred to, 181 cases of talipes valgus are recorded. In more than half these cases both feet were affected. Treatment.—In the different forms of non- congenital valgus above enumerated, the treatment will necessarily vary; but essentially it will consist of the mechanical, operative, and physiological means, either separately or in combination, already described as necessary to the cure of the congenital form of valgus. The principles and, in most re- spects, the details of the treatment are essentially- similar in both the congenital and non-congenital forms of valgus; but in the different classes in which these cases have been arranged, some spe- cial points of treatment require to be adverted to. Class 1.—Depemling upon muscular and liga- mentous dehilily.—Cases of valgus depending upon this cause are frequently seen in children from two to five years of age; in youths from fourteen to eighteen years of age; and in young adults. In delicate children of lax fibre the eversion of the foot is readily controlled by what is known as a valgus bout; a convex pad made of vulcanised indiarubber is placed inside the boot, in the normal situation of the arch of the foot which it is intended to sup- port or remodel. The heel of the boot must be carried forwards on the inner side, so as to give it an oblique instead of transverse direction, and it may also be raised on the inner side about a quar- ter of an inch, so as to twist the foot inwards, and throw the weight on the outer rather than the inner side of the foot. In these cases no steel supports are ever necessary, nor is there any muscular contraction to call for tenotomy. The valgus boot will probably be required to be worn for about two years. In youth, wlien the cases are seen at the coin- inencement of the deformity, the same treatment is indicated, and is generally snfiicient not only to prevent increase, but completely to restore the form of the foot. In girls it is seldom necessary to do more. The walking exercise must be diminished, and frequent rest enforced. Horse-exercise should be ordered, and every means taken to improve the general health by appropriate tonics, country and sea air, &c. . ,, • , i, ► In more severe cases, especially in boys, Dut previous to the stage of fixed deformity with con- traction ofmuscles.itis necessary to add a steel support attached to the outer side of the boot, and cairied up the calf of the leg, where it is con- nected with a semicircular steel plate, and a strap which encircles the leg. A free-joint should correspond to the ankle-joint; and a leather strap, attached to the inner side of the boot, should pass across the ankle-joint and buckle outside the steel support. . . . • In the next grade of the defonmty—viz , tVat n which the arch of the foot is more completely flattened, and extension of the foot cannot be per- fi.rined to the natural Aegvee-muscular coM,o^ will be found to have taken place; and in tl e erect position, or when extension of the foot .8 attempted by manipulation, the endons of the extensor-longus and perone. muscles nmU appear more or less prominent and tense. Now these cases may be treated either b)