UTERUS, CANCER OF. 864 cipal season for tliis cruel disease, though he has known one woman of the town die of it, whose age was only 26 ; and has seen it in women as old as ()0, 70, 80, and even 83, In University Col- lege Hospital, I lately had a case in a woman about 70, in whom it proved fatal about two years after its first attack. In this case the disease had implicated the whole of the vagina and even the labia. One j'oung woman whom I attended in Great Ormond Yard for a cancerous womb, of whicli she died, had an aged mother who had suffered se- verely fioni carcinoma of each breast, but had lat- terly been freed from the disease by a sloughing pro- cess ; an event which is uncommon, but does now and then happen. (See Cancer.) Next to cancer of the breast, cancer of the womb is the form in which the disease most frequently presents itself. Sometimes the disease takes place in the womb and breast together ; and Cruveilhier records an instance in which cancer uteri was accompanied by a medullary tumor in the substance of the left hemisphere of tlie baain, so that, in the latter stages of the case, the patient was attacked with convulsions and hemiplegia. According to this distinguished pathologist, however, notwithstand- ing the tendency of cancerous diseases in general to affect the whole economy, by extending from the point first attacked, as from a centre, cancer of the womb is but rarely accompanied by this general implication of the ^system, and especially of the breast. It appears also, from Cruveilhier's researches, that the vagina is as frequently the aeat of cancer as the neck of the womb. " Its anterior paries is much more frequently attacked than its posterior ; and hence it is rare to find instances in vi^hich the lower portion of the bladder does not participate in the disease." {Anat. Path. liv. xxiii. pi. 6.) Cruveilhier finds, that what he terms the areolar puliaceaus cancer is the most frequent of all the forms of cancer to which the uterus is liable. In this the uterus is transformed into a spongy tex- ture, from which a cancerous substance, of greater or less consistence, may be compressed in the shape of small worms; so "that, when this texture has been emptied by suitable preparation, a hollow cellular structure remains. Cruveilhier conceives that he has made out the fact that cancer of the uterus begins in the venous system. However this may be, he notices another foct, which is o greater importance to the practitioner, viz. that the It/mphiitic glands in the pelvis are almost con siardly affected in cancer of the womh. He spe- cifies in particular two, si;uated one to the right and the other to tlie left, at the sides of the pelvis, on a level with the highest part of the iscliiatic foramen ; these, he says, are often the only lym- phatic glands implicated. The lumbar glands he finds less frequently diseased than the pelvic ; and he states, that they may be enlarged and red with- out presenting any vestige of cancerous structure. The inguinal glands are on'y involved when the disease attacks the external pudenda, and the ori- fice of the vagina. In only one dissection lie found the cancerous substance in the thoracic duct, though he examined it at every opportunity ; and, in another instance, he traced the same sub- stance in many of the lymphatics, which proceeded from the diseased parts. (Op. cit. liv. xxvii.) In one case, dissected by Cruveilhier, one ureter was enormously dilated, and the corresponding kidney wasted. " The relations of the ureters with the lateral and superior part of the vagina, and with the lower part of the bladder which is often im- plicated in cancer of the uterus, account for the impediment to the flow of the urine through the ureters, the lower portions of which are often sur- ounded by cancerous masses, which compress them. This compressinn may take place in so great a degree, tliat the lower part of the ureter is completely obliterated ; and, what is remarkable, such compression does not produce the fatal con- sequences which theoretically might be expected. The urine dilates the ureter (see liv. xxvii. p|. 2, fig. 2), which at the same tirne that it becomes dilated, is lengthened and rendered tortuous or i spiral, like a varicose vein. The pelvis and I calices in their turn are also expanded, so as to ; acquire a considerable capacity. The kidney, compressed by the urine accumulated in the di- lated calices, gradually wastes away, and is con- verted into a mere shell or husk of a pale )'ellow, having some resemblance in colour to the changed i state of the kidney known of late by the name of i Bright's Disease ; and such atrophy may proceed i so far that no urine can be secreted, or so little i that any redundance may be easily prevented by i absorption." The possibility of life continuing j long, with an obstruction of both ureters, would : be, however, a very different case from that de- scribed by Cruveilhier. Gangrene, consequent on cancer of the womb, is found by Cruveilhier to be very common, , sometimes destroying the cancerous structure, layer by layer, and, in other instances, attacking i the whole mass of it. In both cases, the discharge i becomes horribly fetid, and when the finger is with- drawn from the vagina, it brings away a sloughy i putrid detritus, which Cruveilhier says can be com- pared to nothing more like it than the substance i into which hospital gangrene transforms the tex-: tures invaded by it. The sloughing may advaiice slowly or rapidly ; a difference which has vast in- fluence on tile intensity and acuteness of the sym- ; ptoms. When gangrene attacks the whole of the cancerous mass, and nearly annihilates it, the case i might be mistaken for one of primary mortifica-1 tion ; and, in many examples, the cancerous stale of the pelvic and lumbar absorbent glands is the only criterion of the gangrene having been pre-1 ceded by a cancerous affection of the uterus. {Cruveilhier, Anat. Pathol, liv. xxiv.) As I have never seen more than palliative re- i lief derived from medicines or local applications, in the treatment of true cancer of the womb, I shall not dwell long upon this part of the subject. So far as my experience goes, temporary relief is to be sought principally in the judicious employment: of narcotics and purgatives as occasion requires, the horizontal position, leeches on the hypogiistnc region in the early stage, fomentations, and frequent ablution with tepid water, or decoction of poppies. 1 have not generally found the chloride of soda lotion, nor any astringent injection, superior to tepid water in the temporary relief afforded ; but when the discharge is copious and exceedingly tetid, they may be tried. The tincture of lo.iine, t ie hydriodate of potash, the iodide of mercury, the carbonate of iron, tlie liquor arsenicaiis, the aqua laurocerasi, and almost all the medicines .spc'^"";'! in the article CanceA, I have seen tried, but without any permanent benefit.