JOINTS, DISEASES OF. 110 the bones not participating in the morbid action. This is reversed in disorganising idiopatliic iii- flfimmation; the mischief then usually commences in the osseous articular ends, or in the cartilage, the synovial membrane being often the last affected. " In the traumatic form the diso;ise may be said to radiate from the circumference of the joint; in the idiopathic from the centre." In the treatment of wounded joints, the first point to be determined is whether amputation should be performed, or an attempt made to save the limb. Without here going into this question, •we may remark that the former must be discarded if the joint is not extensively opened, if the soft parts are not much contused and torn, and if there is no dislocation or extensive fracture of the bones. If the wound is a puncture or a clear incised wound, an effort must be made to heal it by the first intention, by bringing the edges together, and " placing a piece of lint soaked in collodion upon it, or a strip of plaster washed over with resin-varnish, the inflammatory action being sub- dued by continuous irrigation with cold water: no poulticing or warm fomentations should ever be allowed during this stage." (Ericlisen, op. cit.) ] When the edges of an incised wound of a joint are immediately brought together, the cavity of the joint has not been long exposed, and blood ia not extravasiited into it, the prognosis is mostly favourable. This last source of danger is also exaggerated, as will be noticed in speaking of collections of blond in joints. With these excep' tions the wound may heal as readily as if the joints were not opened. In a sabre, or cut wound, the principal object is to heal the wound by the first intention. The rest of the treatment consists in using every possible means for the prevention of inflammation, as perfect quietude of the part, the use of cold application?, leeches, &c. [If suppuration supervene,' it has been recom- mended to make free incisions into the joint so as to procure an early outlet for the pus ; the part must now be well poulticed, and an attempt made at procuring ankylosis by the granulation and cohe- sion, through fibrous tissue, of the articular surfaces. The decomposition of the pus, and its absorption into the system, are no doubt greatly lessened by free and early incisions into the joint after suppu- ration has once been set np. The constitutional irritation produced by the tension of the parts is likewise at once removed.] The experienced Mr. Hey has noticed wounds of the joints, and made some pertinent remarks on them. He states that, in these cases, the utmost care should be taken to prevent inflammation. " Upon this circumstance chiefly depends a suc- cessful termination. I have seen (saj's he) many large wounds of the great joints healed without the supervention of any dangerous symptoms where due care has been "takoi to prevent inflam- mation in the joints after a wound, and to arrest its progress when once begun. I speak now of inflamo.ation affecting the capsular ligament. A slight degree of redness and tenderness in toe integuments only is of little consequence; but when the capsular ligament becomes inflamed, the formation of abscesses, attended with a high de- gree of frver, and ultimiitely a stiffness t'»;, joint, are the common consequences, if the life of tlie patient is preserved." (See Fraclkal Obs. in Surgery, p. 334, edit. 2.) In speaking of cartilaginous substances in the joints, I shall have occasion to advert again to the danger attendant on wounds of these parts; and the same fact is still further considered in the articles AinpiUalion, Dislocations, Fractures, and Gun-shot Wounds, in which last part of the Dic- tionary the sentiments of Baron Larrey, and other writers on military surgery, are laid before the reader. Inflammation of Joints, or Synovitis. [This is the most common perhaps of all-the articular affections, and may be acute, subacute, or chronic in its charac- ters. Whatever form it assumes, synovitis usually results from exposure to cold, especially in rheu- matic constitutions. In these cases it commonly happens that more joints than one are implicated at the same time ; and the affected articulations are most frequently those that are most exposed by the thinnest covering of soft parts, and by being especially subjected to transitions of tempe- rature ; such as the knee and ankle. Injuiies of joints, as blows, bruises, wounds, or sprains, will also frequently occasion this inflammation; but when arising from such causes, it is seldom of an unmixed kind, being usually associated with in- flammation of the other textures that enter into the composition of the articulation. (See Ericlisen, Science and Art of Surgery, p. 678, ed.3.)] No cause, however, is so frequent as the application of cold ; and hence Sir Benjamin Brodie explains the frequency of synovial inflammation in the knee, and its rarity in the hip and shoulder, which are covered by a thick mass of flesh. [Mr. Coulson has known long-continued pressure to give rise to it; thus it has been caused by kneeling for a long time on damp earth,] The synovial membranes are naturally not ver)' sensible; but, like many other parts simiharly cir- cumstanced, they often become acutely painful when inflamed. The complaint is accompanied with an increased secretion of the synovia, which becomes of a more aqueous and of a less albuminous quality than it is in the healthy state. Hence it is not so well calculated for lubricating the articular surfaces and preventing the eftects of friction, as it is in the natural condition of the joint; a circumstance which may explain why a grating sensation is often perceived on moving the patella. ]t has been explained by Sir Benjamin Brodie, that the usual consequences,of inflammation of the synovial membrane, arc: 1. A preternatural se- cretion of synovia ; 2. An cftiision of coagulated lymph into the cavity of the joint; 3. A thicken- ing of the synovial membrane, and conversion of it into a substance resembling gristle, and an effusion of coagulated Ivmph, and probably of serum, into the cellular texture, by which it is connected to the external parts; 4. In some in- stances, adhesion, more or less extensive, of the opposite surfaces of the reflected membrane to each other. " These effects of inflammation of the syno- vial very much resemble those of inflammation of the serous membranes. There are, however, some points of difference. In the former. I have reason to believe that suppuration rarely takes place in- dependently of ulceration; but this is a frequent occurrence in the latter. Inflammation of the peritoneum or pleura, though very sliglitin degree, and of very short duration, terminates in the effusion of coagulable lymph; but it is only violent,