438 within Di-. Seymour's knowledge. Occasionally the complaint has disappeared after the receipt of an accidental blow ; and, as a case related by Dr. Blundell tends to prove, the cure may here arise from rupture of the cyst, and effusion of the fluid in the cavity of the peritoneum, followed by ab- sorption of it. I have tapped several ovarian cysts, and dis- charged from them, at repeated operations, incal- culable quantities of fluid. In a case, recorded by Mead, a lady was tapped sixty-seven times in five years and a half, and 1,920 pints of fluid discharged. In another instance, detailed by Martmeau, the patient lost, by [tapping, 6,631 pints of fluid in the course of twenty-five years. Sir A. Cooper has known several examples of the spontaneous ciure of ovarian dropsy. In one case, the fluid was for a long time voided through an ulcerated opening at the umbilicus. He has also known the water to be discharged by the Fallopian tube ; and he attended a lady in whom an ovarian cyst burst into the intestinal canal: for several years afterwards, she was subject to occa- sional returns of the disease, but ultimately re- covered. {Lectures, vol. ii. p. 384.) In the year 1836, a woman was under my care at the Blooms- bury Dispensary, with an ovarian cyst of immense size, filling the abdomen, and protruding partly at the navel, where ulceration had formed an opening into it, from which a pint or two of glutinous fluid was discharged every day. She lived in this state about three months, and was seen by the students of University College Hospital. Dr. Addison has recorded an instance in which an ovarian cyst was burst by an accidental blow, and a cure followed. The first symptoms were those of peritonitis. Bleeding, fomentations, calo- mel, antimony, and] opium, were the means em- ployed. (See Guifs Hospital Reports, vol. i. p. 41.) The passage of the fluid of an ovarian cyst into the cavity of the peritoneum may prove fatal in a few hours, occasioning sickness, vomiting, giddiness, colliquative sweats, and extreme prostration. A case, related by Dr. Barlow, in which paracentesis had been delayed too long, and the ovarian fluid escaped through an ulceration of the cyst into the cavity of the peritoneum, fully exemplifies the foregoing statement. (See Prov. Med. Trans. vol. iv. p. 402.) [The subject of ovariotomy will be found fully treated by Mr. Spencer Wells in a separate article in this dictionary. Some of the matter here introduced under the heading paracentesis might therefore have been omitted. The very interesting historical sketch, however, given above by Mr. Cooper of ovarian dropsy and its treatment during his time, has induced the editor to retain it.] PARACENTESIS OF THE THORAX. The necessity for this operation is indicated when the heart or lungs are oppressed by any kmd of fluid confined in the cavity of the chest. Everybody knows that the free and uninterrupted performance of the functions of these organs is es- sential to the support of life. When their action is perilously disturbed by the lodgment of fluid in the thorax, no internal medicines can be much depended upon for procuring relief. The only means from whicli benefit can be rationally ex- pected, ia letting out the fluid by making an open- ing in the parictes of the chest. PARACENTESIS. The nature of the effused fluid can make no diflference, in regard to the propriety of discharging it in this manner ; and though some authors de- scribe this operation as only applicable to cases of hydrops pectoris and empyema, it may also be of the greatest service when air is confined in the chest. (See Emphysema, and Pneumothorax.) It is now seldom executed for blood extravasated there. (See Wounds op the Thorax.) The case in which it is least likely to be followed by a perfect recovery is hydrothorax ; and Sir A. Cooper, in his vast experience, has not known more than one operation performed for it which proved successful. This he considers by no means surprising, as the collection of fluid is the effect of disease of the thoracic viscera, the heart or lungs, &c. (Zeo^MJ-es, vol.ii. p. 385.) A case of success, however, is mentioned in the references at the end of the present article ; and in the Berlin Med, Trans, a case is recorded, in which a cure was efi'ected by an accidental wound of the chest, by which the whole of the water escaped at once, {Act. Med. Berol. t. x. dec. 1, p. 44.) A case of successful paracentesis of the thorax is recorded by Dr. Archer, where eleven pints of an inodorous fluid were drawn off, and in a few weeks the patient was quite convalescent. (See Trans, of King's and Queen''s College of Physicians, Dublin, iii.) A patient, under Dr. Croker, of Dublin, was operated upon by Mr. Cramptom, and fourteen imperial pints of pus were discharged. (See Empyema.) The idiopathic form of hydrothorax, or that case in which it constitutes the original disease, is set down by Laennec as very rare. He has often known hypertrophy of the heart, aneurism of the aorta, irregular consumption, and even scirrhus of the stomach or liver, mistaken for this disorder, when there was no coexisting effusion in the pleura, or at least none except what took place imme- diately before death. S3'mptomatic hydrothorax, he admits, is frequent. {On Dis. of tlie Chest, p. 484, ed. 2.) In this work the learned translator, Dr. Forbes, recommends the use of the stethoscope for discriminating diseases of the heart from hy- drothorax, as the means adapted to the relief of dropsy of the chest would be useless with regard to them. ,, VT. J In this place I shall content myself with de- scribing the methods of performing paracentesis thoracis, referring the reader to the above articles, and the valuable work of Laennec, for the particular symptoms and circumstances which may render the operation proper, and the rest of the surgical treat- ment peculiar to each affection. It has been the common maxim to recommend tUe space between the sixth and seventh true ribs as the safest and most convenient situation for making an opening into the chest on either side, as cir- cumstances may render necessary. The surgeon should always recollect that the two cavities o the pleuraj are completely distinct from each other, and have no communication whatsoever ; so tnat if fluid were contained on the left side of the tuo- t Huid were coniaiiieu uu ...v. - .•ax, making an opening into the ^^S^'\<^'i:'}\^°^^ not serve for discharging the The practitioner should also '^^f I^^ee thore'is a fluid on both f oiu! of C t^^ tesis must never be done for the rem collections, at the same time j f^^J'^^^^'* great reason to believe tliat, as the lungs on one