£132 VENEREAL DISEASE. Chancres have been noticed in the vagina; but Mr. Hunter suspected that they were not original ones, and that they had spread to this Bituation from the inside of the labia. M. Ricord (who assures us that, with the aid of a speculura, he has frequently detected them in this situation in women who had also gonorrlicea) believes that this combination accounts for those otherwise perple-^cing facts, to which I have already adverted as taking place in individuals who con- tract venereal complaints by intercourse with one woman, and, as is assumed, with no others. Before any of the virus has been absorbed, and conveyed into the circulation, a chancre is entirely a local affection. From the Hunterian doctrines, however, it would appear that absorption must generally soon follow the occurrence of the sore ; though it may be remarked that, as the first effect of such absorption—the production of a bubo—does not usually take place in the early or ulcerating stage ofa'chancre, and not till granulations have formed, such doctrines may not be correct. 1 Icnow, however, that rather an opposite conclu- sion has been arrived at by M. Eicard, as will appear from the latter part of the following pas- sage :—" A chancre (says M. Ricord), whicii is, in relation to constitutional syphilis, what the bite of a rabid dog is in relation to hydrophobia, does not, however, produce a specific pus, except at a cer.- tiin epoch of its duratiou ; and it is certainly from so simple a fact not being recollected that the re- sults of inoculation have been disputed, or ren- dered uncertain. It is very manifest that a primary venereal sore cannot be the same in all its staged, and that, if it did not pass into the state of a simple ulcer by the destruction of the cause which tended to keep it up, it would ne,yer heal. Similar chiv- racters and similar results cannot be expected from these different phases: it is at the period of pro- gress or of ihe statu quo of ulceration, when there is no work of cicatri.^alion going on, that .the chancre secretes the venereid virus." .{Ph. Ricord, Mai. Ven. p. 85.) Notwithstanding the admitted fact that a chancre frequently loses its venereal character, and becomes a simple ulcer before it heals, so tliat the pus secreted by it, after a certain time, does not contain the venereal poison, there would ap- pear to be exceptions, unless we are to set down certain accounts as incorrect^ and, so f3,r as the absorption of the poison is concerned, I believe, with Mr. Aston Key and Mr. Wallace, that the production of a bubo from this cause rarely or never occurs until at least some points of the chancre have begun to granulate. Another ex- perienced surgeon informs us, that he has known some young men led to suppose that " when a chancre had lost its venereal characters, and had got into the state of a granulating ulcer, it was devoid of all venereal virus, and therefore inca- pable of conveying infection. In the early part of my professional life, I have known more mstances than one which provi-d the fallacy of this notion. I had once an opportunity of learning that a chancre, even ichcn recently healed, teas stilt ca- pable of communicating the venereal disease, if the cuticle chanced to he riMed of. A young man whom I was treating for a chancre had the impru- dence to marry privately in a day or two after iiis cliancre had healed ; the cuticle was rubbed off, and I was called upon, in a fortnight after, to treat his wife for a chancre and bubo." (^ALr. Collea, M.D., On tlui Ven. Dis. p. 80.) When no secondary symptoms take place after the cure of chancre witliout mercury, I believe few surgeons of the present day would attempt to account for the fact by the hypothesis of the mat- ter not having been absorbed; and this observation is made with every di-spositiou on my part to ex- press my assent to the truth of another circum- stance, viz., tiiat some persons appear much more susceptible of the effects of the venereal disease, than other individuals. It is remarked by Mr. Hunter that the interval between the application of the poison and its effects upon the parts is un- certain, but that, on the whole, a chancre is longer in appearing than a gonorrhoja. However, the nature of the parts affected makes some differ- ence. When a chancre occurs on the fr£Bnuin, or at the termination of the prepuce in the glans, the disease, in general, comes on earlier ; these parts being more easily affected than either the glans penis, common skin of this organ, or the scrotum. He adds, that, in some cases, in which both the glans and prepuce were contaminated from the same application of the poison, the chancre made its appearance earlier on the latter part. Mr. Hunter knew of some instances in which chancres appeared twenty-four hours after the application of the matter; and others, in which an interval of seven weeks, and even two months, elapsed, between the time of contamination and that when the chancre commenced. It was one of Mr. Hunter's opinions that the ulceration arising from venereal inflammation ge- nerally, if not always, continues till cured by art; and his theoretical reason for this circumstance was, that, as the inflammation in the chancre spreads, it is always attacking new ground, so as to produce a succession of irritations, and hinder the disease from curing itself. It was, no doubt, the foregoing opinion of Mr. Hunter, which formed the authority for the posi- tion which was always forcibly insisted upon in the surgical lectures of Mr. Abernethy, which I at- tended many years ago, viz. that all truly venereal complaints, when not counteracted by remedies, invariably grow progressively worse, which is not the case with pseudo-syphilitic diseases. But mo- dern experience apprises us that this doctrine is completely erroneous ; that truly venereal com- plaints will get well without mercury ; and conse- quently that the phrase pseudo-syphilitic lias, in this respect, no foundation. As I have noticed in the foregoing pages, Dr. Fergusson assm-es us that, in Portugal, the disease, in its primary state amongst the natives, is durable without mercury, and by f simple topical treatment ; that the aiitisyphilitic woods, combined with sudorifies, are an adequate remedy for constitutional symptoms ; and that the virulence of the disease has there been so much mitigated that, after running a certain course (commonly a mild one) through the respective orders of parts, according to the known laws of its progress, it exhausts itself and ceases spontaneowsly. (See Med. and Chir. Trans, vol. iv. p. 2-5.) In the third edition of the First Lines of the Prac- tice of Surgery, it was sufficiently proved, froin several conclusions drawn from the writings of Mr. Pearson (Ots. on the Effects of Various Ar- ticles in the Cure or Lues Venerea), that venereal sores might be benefited, and even healed, under