INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS. undue pressure of the outer fold upon its contents may have led to sloughing of the latter, and thus the only chance of recovery offered to the patient is the maintenance of the continuity of the canal, by the effusion and organisation of lymph, to unite the free edges of the portions of intestine situated on either side of the invaginated bowel. The attempt to withdraw the invagination would probably load to rupture of the bowel in most instances, although a successful case has been mentioned above. Olistruction from Bands, Adhesions, tJ'C.—Bands, adhesions, diverticula, lesions of the peritoneum, and impacted gallstones, come next in order of fre- quency as sources of intestinal obstruction, being, according to Dr. Brinton's .analysis, 32 per cent. Tiiese sources of obstruction usually affect the small intestine, and may well be considered toge- ther. The symptomatology of these lesions has already been referred to generally under the head of obstructions of the small intestines; and I fear the present state of our knowledge will scarcely enable us to indicate the symptoms by which either of the above ma}- be individualh' recognised during life as a source of strangulation. (See Case by Mr. Bryant, in Lancet, Feb. 25, 1860.) Pathology of Bands. — The diagnosis will be assisted by a careful enquiry into the history^ of the patient in reference to the possible occurrence at one time or other of certain diseases or injuries which favour the effusion of lymph in the abdo- minal cavity; such as blows and wounds, hernia, disease of the mesentery, peritonitis, dysentery, or typhoid fever. These affections in some instances lead to the effusion of lymph upon. the serous surface of the peritoneum at one or more points, and this exudation, according to its extent and situation, may tend to the glueing together of more or less of the abdominal viscera, and to constrictions of the same during the process of organisation. Also a mass of lymph originally localised and adherent to one organ, or to one por- tion of intestine, may by contact acquire a second point of attachment to another organ, or to another coil of intestine, and by the change of place of one coil of intestine (for example) in the performance of its functions may become stretched into a band attached at both ends, or, yielding to tension, may give way at one extremity and float loosely in the abdomen, to become, porhapg, in time, the source of strangulation. Mr. Gay has endeavoured to show that " this band is usually solitary {Trans. Med. Soc. London, vol. i. part iii.) and differs from common plastic exudations in the fact that it is rarely, if ever, attached but at its extremities; in having a dis- tmctly glistening surface, as though it possessed a peritoneal investment, continuous with that of the abdominal viscera; in the fact that it is frequently found to be tubular when it stretches from one holbw viscus to another, and forms a channel of communication between them." lie also quotes Andral, to show the order of frequency in which the different portions of intestine become the seat of ulcerative and perforating affections: ' The jejunum in one; the rectum in four; the colon in twenty-three; the ileum in thirty-eight: and pro- ceeds to show that the production'of these hands is the process by which such lesions have been re- paired.' 95 In a similar manner, diverticula and the appen- dix vermiformis may become adherent by their originally free extremity to some adjacent organ, and form loops and sources of intestinal obstruc- tion. But although these bands and adliosions may be accounted for by previous disease, instances arise in whicii the obstructing band may very pro- bably be a relic of foetal life. (Seejl/ecteZ, Manual d'Anato/nie, vol. iii. p. 431); also, Struthers {Anat. and Phys. Observ. Part I. p. 137, &c.), wlio says, " Diverticula are of two kinds, true and false." He quotes Monro, who has observed : 'There arc two kinds of diverticula, original malformations, and those formed consequent upon the protrusion of the intestines. The preternatural appendices occasionally found within the sac of a liernia are generally formed as stated by my grandfather, viz. by. the gradual elongation of the side of the intes- tine, which being tied down becomes gradually elongated into a cul-de-sac of some length. There is also another species of appendix, which seems to be formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane through the outer coats of the intestine.' The true diverticula are congenital. Meckel says,' that their character indicates them to be primitive forma- tions, having the same structure as, and continuity with, the intestinal coats; that they occur almost always at the same part of the intestine, and that the connexion between the umbilical vesicle and the bowel occurs at this same part, viz. on the ileum, near the caecum; that we sometimes perceive in very young foetuses a canal which goes across the umbilical sheath, from the vesicle to the abdo- men, and by which we can at pleasure empty the vesicle of this fluid and fill it again; that it is not unfrequent, proportionally speaking, to find in the full-grown foetus a canal which extends from the intestine to the umbilicus, which opens in the latter place, and is always attended by the om- phalo-mesenteric vessels.' " The occurrence of a ■ cord or ligament passing from the extremity of the diverticulum is a point of considerable interest. This cord, which may be called the terminal liga- ment, may be looked upon as the remains either of the early vitelline canal or of the more persistent pedicle of the vitelline sac, and of the omphalo- mesenteric vessels which passed along it. Its presence was distinctly noted in only five out of the twenty cases of the true diverticulum above recorded by me. It might also have been present ill the now dried preparations, and removed in the dissection, without leaving any trace." Struthers quotes cases in which fatal strangulation resulted from the passage of intestine through a loop formed by the adhesion of the extremity of the terminal ligament to an adjacent organ. Referring to the omphalo-mesenteric vessels, Carpenter {/Iicman Physiology, p. 1030) says: "It was formerly be- lieved that the nutrient matter of the yolk passes directly through the vitelline duct into the (future) digestive cavity of the embryo, .and is from it ab- sorbed into its structure; but there can now be little doubt that the vitelline vessels are the real agents of its absorption, and that they convey it through the general circulating system to the tissucB in process of formation." Diagnosis.—A proximity to the truth as.regards the seat, if not of the naluro of the obstruction may be arrived at by a careful investigation of the pathological history of the patient, as well as by an account of the mode of onset of the complaint.