668 SURGERY. has been the successful introduction oi operations for the removal of omn'uH iimors. Clay of Manchester, Walne, Samuel Lane of London, Baker Brown, and SpencerWells are the names which nmst be chiefly connected with the history of this operation. By the two latter especially it has been studied with ^reat care, modified with great ingenuity, and performed with nifirvellous success. Frederick Bird, Keith of Edinburgh, Tyler Smith, Kosberle' of Strasburg, Boinet, Atlee of Pliiladeiphia, and his countryman Peaslee, are names which ought to be honourably mentioned in connection with the introduction of this operation. It is, however, essentially English; and it needed the visit of no less eminent a surgeon than M. Ne'laton to giveit currency on the Continent. In nothing have we made more promising progress than in the after treatment of peisons wounded and operated on. The principles laid down by Jack- son and Hanen and other of our military surgeons are now firmly established tiiroughout the world as canons. The effective ventilation (and, for this purpose, sufficient cubic space of wards% tlieir con- venient installation, and the importance of absolute purity of air, water, and dressings, have done much to banish hospital gangrene. But more remains to be done. The carbolic acid dressings of Mr. Lister, of Glasgow, promise to render great ser- vice in preventing the suppurative and putrefactive changes in injured parts, and have already pro- duced results justly characterised as "astoiniding." The nutritious aliinenlation which we afford to our patients is very generally', though gradually,being followed abroad. The statistics of British opera- tions are by far more favourable than those of the continent, especially of the French surgeons. In the treatment of fractures important improvement has been effected by the use of immovable bandages —starched, gummed, or stiffened with plaster of Paris, as advised 1 y Baron Senten. Gutta- percha has provided us with a substance easily moulded to limbs and joints, and affording great support. The American surgeons have greatly simplified the apparatus of retention and ex- tension, by the employment of weights for ex- tension, and the substitution of cane splints and straps of plaster for the more cumbersome splints and bandages commonly employed. Brodhurst has shown in selected cases with what facility under chloroform movement can be ■ restored to anhjloscd joinis, by breaking down the adhesions. Finally, we must dismiss in a few words the great advances made in rectifying dcformtiies gene- rally, or what is called orthopajdic surgery. Of this department of surgery, Stromeyer is the father. His disciple in this country was Dr. Little; and Tamplin, Adams, and Brodhurst, fol- lowing him, have done much to erect it into a science. There is perhaps a tendency to over-much instrument-making here; and the Swedish system of exercises introduced by Ling is too little em- ployed for vertebral deviations. But the most serious deformities of the limbs are now cured by division of the tendons and subsequent rectification of malpositions which were formerly beyond the reach of art, and the treatment of spinal curvature is both successful and free from cruelties. The comparative impunity with which the "subcutane- ous" division of tendons is effected, has led to the generalisation of the method, and in the removal of loose cartilages from a joint in the operation of strabismus and torticollis, as in other opera- tions of surgery, the " subcutaneous " method is found to have many advantages. I will conclude by asking indulgence for this rapid summary, which the necessity for extreme condensation (amongst other reasons) has in my hands rendered even more imperfect than it might otherwise have been.] WMte''s Cases in Surgery, 1770. Cheselden's Trea- tise on the High Operation forthe Stone. Lond. 1723, in 8vo.; and his Treatise on the Anatomy of tlie Human Body; S/iarp's Treatise of the Operations, and his Critical Inquiry into the Present State of Surgery. Mo7iro's Works, by his son ; Wanicr't Cases in Surgery, 1754; and his Description of tlie Eye and its Diseases, 1775. Alanson's Treatise on Amputation. Pott's Chirurgical Works. Kirklund's Obs. on Fractures, 1770; his Thoughts on Amputa- tion, 1780; and his Medical Surgery, 1783. Smcltic's Midwifery; awiXJohn Hunter, On the Blood, hitlam- mation, &c.; his Treatise on the Venereal Disease, Animal Economy, the Teeth, and all tlie papers written by himselfand his brother, in the Phil.Trans., Med. Obs. and Inquiries, and Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, are productions which reflect the highest credit on the state of surgery in England. Ernest Hart. SUSPENSORY. A bandage for supporting the .'Crotum ; a bag truss. In cases of inflamed testis, varicocele, some particular hernias, and several affections of the testicle and spermatic cord, a suspensory bandage is of great service. SUTURES (from sua, to sew). A mode of uniting the edges of a wound, by keeping them in contact with stitches. Mr. Sharp remarks, that " when a wound is recent, and the parts of it are divided by a sharp instrument, without any further violence, and in such manner that they may be made to ap- proach each other, by being returned with the liands, they will, if held in close contact for some time, reunite by inosculation, and cement, like one branch of a tree ingrafted on another. To maintain them in this situation, several sorts of sutures have been invented, and formerly prac- tised, but the number of them has, of late, been very much reduced. These now chiefly de- scribed are the interriqiled, the glover's, the quilled, the Itvisted, and the dri/, sutures ; but the interrupted and twisted are almost the only useful ones, for the quilled suture is never pre- ferable to the interrupted; the dry suture is ridiculous in terms, since it is only a piece of plaster, applied in many different ways, to re- unite the lips of the wound; and the glover's, or uninterrupted stitch—which is recommended in superficial wounds, to prevent the deformity of a scar—does rather, by the frequency of the stitches, occasion it, and is therefore to be rejected, in favour of a compress and sticking plaster." {Oper. of Surgertj.) The twisted suture is described with hare-lip; and Gastror.^phe forms a distinct article in this Dictionary. Lderrupted Suture.—wound being cleansed from all clots of blood, and its lips being brought evenly into contact, the needle, armed with a ligature, is to be carefully carried from without inwards to the bottom, and so on froin within outwards. Care must be t^iken to make the punc- ture Pir enough from the edge of the ;vo..nd, les the ligature should tear quite through the skni and flesh. The distance, according to Mr. bhaip, may be three or four tenths of an inch. i he other stitches required are only repetitions of the