210 LITHOTOMY. and was easily poised between two fingers, one placed in the rectum and the other in the wound. On opening the bladder, a considerable quantity of urine escaped, which the operator conceives must have been derived from the ureters, as the bladder had been emptied previous to the opera- tion by the catheter. The thickened coats of the bladder embraced the stone so closely, that a considerable time elapsed before the foreign body could be removed with the forceps. It was nearly egg-shaped, weighed rather more than an ounce and a half, and appears to have measured two inches by one inch and a half. Precautions were taken to favour the flow of urine through the wound, but they failed, and the syphon was removed on the second day. No se- rious accident occurred, and in about two mouths the patient was able to leave his bed, the wound having granulated and healed up. Dr. Humphry refers to the well-known fact, that the success of thelateral operation varies greatly with the size of the stone, so nmch so tliat of twenty cases operated on in the Norwich Hospital, in which the stones weighed more than three ounces, only eight recovered; whereas thedangers of the high operation do not appear to increase in so great a ratio with the size of the stone, for of twenty-one cases, wliere the stone weighed more th;m three ounces, fourteen recovered. It was from this comparison of the two operations, and from the consideration of the evils resulting from the laceration and bruising of the soft parts in the lateral operation, in extracting a large stone entire or in breaking it up, that Dr. Humphry Avas induced to practise the high opera- tion in this instance, and thinks it worthy of adoption in cases where there are good grounds for believing that the stone is of very large size. (See Trans, of Frov. Med. and Surg. Assoc. vol. xvii., 1850, p. 103.)] Lateral Operation. This mode of operation is so named from the prostate gland and neck of the bladder being la- terally cut. [To Pierre Franco, a celebrated surgeon _ of Provence, is undoubtedly due the merit of having first described, if he did not invent, an operation which contained the principal elements of thelateral operation as practised at the present day. (-4 Treatise on Hernia and Slone, 1561). From his description it appears that Franco employed a scalpel, gorget, and grooved director ; that he made an oblique incision, then divided the membranous part of the' urethra and the prostate, introduced the gorget, and then passed the forceps along tlie hollow of the gorget and withdrew the stone,] But though Franco appears to have practised the lateral operation, he never established the method as a permanent improvement in surgery, which mea- sure was left to be completed 50 years afterwards by an itinerant lithotomist, who called himsclt I'rere .Jacques. He came to Paris in 1697, bringing with him abundance of certificates of his dexterity m operating; and having made his history known to the court and magistrates, he got an order to cut at the Hotel-Dieu and the Charite, where ho oper- ated on about fifty persons. His success, however, did not equal his promises, and, according to Dionis, some loss of reputation was the conse- quence. Frere Jacques used a large round staff without a groove; and when it was introduced into the bladder, he depressed its handle, with an in- tention of making the portion of this viscus which he wished to cut approach the perineum. He then plunged a long dagger-shaped knife into the left hip, near the tuber ischii, two fingers' breadths from the perineum, and puehing it to- wards the bladder, opened it in its bodj% or as near the neck as he could, directing his incision upward from the anus. He never withdrew his knife till a sufficient opening had been made for the extrac- tion of the stone. Sometimes he used a conductor to guide the forceps, but more commonly dii'ected the last with his finger, which he passed into the wound after withdrawing the knife. When he had hold of the stone, he used to draw it out in a quick rough manner, heedless of the bad conse- quences. His only object was to get the stone ex- tracted, and he disregarded everything else, all preparatory means, dressings, and after-tieatment. {Allan, p. 23.) But although Frere Jacques, totally ignorant of anatomj', and rude and indiscriminate in practice, sunk into disrepute, some eminent surgeons con- ceived, from a consideration of the parts which he cut, that his method might be converted into a most useful operation. The principal defect in his first nianner of cut- ting was the want of a groove in his staff, and the consequent difliculty of carrying the knife into the bladder. At length, Frere Jacques was prevailed upon to study anatomy, by which his judgment was corrected, and he readily embraced several improvements which were suggested to him. In- deed, we are informed that he now succeeded better, and knew more than is generally imagined. Mr. Sharp says that when he himself was in France, in 1702, he saw a pamphlet pubHshed by this celebrated character, in which his method of oper- ating appeared so much improved that it scarcely diifered from later practice. Frere Jacques had learnt the necessitj of attending to the wound after the operation, and had profited so much from the criticisms of Mery, Fagon, Felix, and Hunauld, that he then used a staff with a groove, and had cut 31 patients successively without losing one. (Sharp-'s Operalious.) In short, as a modern writer has observed, he lost fewer patients than we do at the present day in operating with a gor- cret." He is said to have cut ueariy 5,000 patients in the course of his life, and though persecuted by the regular litliotomists, he was imitated by Marechal at Paris, Raw in Holland, and by Bamber and Cheselden in England, where his operation was perfected. [Allan.) [Frere Jacques' second method, adopted after a course of two years' study of anatomy and opera- tive surgery, at Versailles, may be thus briefly described :-He passed a grooved start into the bladder, made an oblique incision from the raphd towards the tuberosity of the ischium, then cut down between the oiector penis and accelerator urina<, until he arrived at the groove of the sta t, divided the neck of the bladder in its whole length, and introduced the forceps along Ins fi"R<^'';-J , For a particular history of Fre.e /"'^q '"'^ his operations, see Bussicre's Letter to Sn Ha Sloaiio, P/ifc. Tr.^ns. ]699 ; J-Mer,y, Obs su jTManiere de TaiVer dans les den. Sees, prat.,^> par F. Jacques ; i'V^v's Jourmy to Pans, 1690,