« 3. The nervous 'nnd vascular e(Tf cts of local irritation cannot be directly described as successive stages of one process, for the determiiiation of lilood to the seat of injuiy, which is the sole result, and, if I may so speak, purpose of the vaso-motor disturbance, has no relation to the local vascular changes, excepting in so far its it tends to make the exudation more abundant. Exudation of iiquor sanguinis, although favoured by increased arterial afflux, may occur without it, and as a rule, continues after the afflux has ceased. The vascular and textural clianges, on the contrary, may be regarded as successive stages of one process, for they are connected b\' a causal relation—the exu- dation of liquor sanguinis in which the former end being the determining cause of the latter. " 4. The mode in which an injury changes the living substance of the vascular walls so as to make them permeable to the blood is unknown. The nature of the change itself is also tmknown, the only clue which we have to its character being those afforded by the structural alterations to which it tends in certain organs, and particu- larly by those which are observed when the process of reparation, attended with the forma- tion of new capillaries, is commencing. From these appearances we are led to infer that the primary change consists in the transition of the material from the formed to the plastic condition —from a state in which it is resistimt, because inactive, to one in which it is more living, and therefore more labile. " 5. In all living tissues the effect of inflamma- tion manifests itself in a modification of the action and properties of individual cells. In cells which form part of permanent structures the protoplasm increases in quantitj', and becomes more or less contractile. Subsequentl}' it is converted entirely or partly into young cells, either by cleavage or by endogenous germination." (//o/»i«s, vol. v.) Subsection 6.—Chemical Theories of Inflammation. We have noticed the successive theories by which inflammation was regarded as a stagnation of hu- mours, or as the effervescence of some vital agent, corp;)real or spiritual; or as a consequence of per- verted action of the various powers that move the blood, or of change of the fluidity of the blood, or of the nutritive action of the tissues outside the vessels. We must next notice the theories based upon changes not merely in the mechanical condition, but in the chemical composition of the blood and tissues. That there is a change in the blood was palpable from its buffed or " sizey " appearance ; and, to explain this, philosophers in every age used the chemical lights at their disposal. Butchemistry, as an exact science, is of very late growth, and the earlier experimenters were most imperfectly acquainted with the nature of the objects they had to deal with. In the 17th century the four ancient elements, earth, air, fire, and water, were discarded, and spirit, sulphur, salt, water, and earth were assumed to be elements existing more or less in all created things. ( Wd/is on Fermenta- tion, ^'c, op. cil.) Soon afterwards a hypothetical acidity was conceived to be the secret of cacoelu/inij, or disordered humours. Acids curdle milk, there- fore acids were supposed to cause other coagula- tions.^ Ktmiiller, for example {Mcdicus fiixlniclus, part ii. cap. ii. S. 21, KilJjj, declared that pleurisy NATION. 75, arose from "peccant" acid, which curdled the serum of the blood and "vellicated" the pleura. Amoniist the causes cold air is reckoned the first. "But," asked Pitcairn {Op. cit. p. 146), "what is there acid in cold air?" F. Sylvius (6. 1GI4, d. 1672), who is usually considered the chief pro- moter of iatroohemistry, uttered the valuable maxim that nothing should be held true in medicine that is not attested by the senses, and that clinical observation, anatoni}', and chemistry were the foun- dations of the science. Good words, truly. But in his Praxeos MediccB Idea Nova (lib. i. cap. 40, Opera, Amsterdam, 1G80) he treats of inflammation under the head of obstructed return of venous blood to the heart. " Blood, or perhaps phlegm— or chyle absorbed from the small intestines "—he says, " stagnates in the small vessels and inter- stices of a part, heats and corrupts. Its volatile and spirituous parts are lost which were wont to mitigate the acid and saline elements; these effervesce with each other and with the oily parts." Bleeding was prescribed in the early stages ; in the later the volatile alkaline salts distilled from animal matters, hartshorn, &c., for- asmuch as, he saj's, they have egregious power of dissolving all things coagulated and conglutinated in the animal body. Books of the date 1 670-1750 treat of "sharp acrimonious juices," "hot raging salts," " sulphureous particles in the blood," and the like. About 173"2 the real nature of the blood- clot, and the existence of coagulable lymph, wag made known by Petit; this knowledge was ex- tended by Quesna}-, Senac, and Dr. Richard Davies, of Bath, whose Essay on the Ejrperi- menial Analysis of (lie Human Blood, Bath, 1760, is as good a description as can be given of the division into serum, gluten, fibrine, and globules^' {Gulliver, Prcfaee to Hewson, op. cit.) We find ammonia recommended in order to hold the fibrin of inflamed blood in solu- tion by Dr. Hugh Smith, physician to the Middlesex Hospital, who published in 1761 some " Essays, Physiological and Practical, on the Na- ture and Circidation of tlie Blood, and the Effecls and Uses of Blood-Letting.'" Dr. Whytt, of Edin- burgh, is right, he says, when he attributes to an increased osciUatory motion of the smaller vessels the cause of inflammation ; but Haller's idea is better—that an effusion of blood into the cellular membranes from the ends of the arteries which exhale into their cavities is brought about by un- usual irritation. The heat is due to the increased and quickened contraction of the vessels, and the consequent accelerated motion and friction of the fluids. Blood-letting, antimony, and volatile alkaline salts—the purpose of which last is to dis- solve the " inflammatory gluten " and to render the blood more fluid—are the modes of treatment recommended. "It may appear contradictor}'," the author says (p. 110), " to prescribe the vola- tile alkaline salts in a disease where the circulation is already too rapid, and the vis vitre much too excited ;" but after the pulse has been lowered they will tend to resolve the inflnmmation. He agrees with Dr. Huxham in supposing that even the most sizey blood out of the liody is prevented from coagulating, and the tone of the fibres ami power of the vessels in the body is diminished by these salts, and that the dissolution of the blood may be hastened, and the momentum of the circvb lation reduced, by the same means.