765* TRACHEA. lacerating the mucous lining of tlio canal must be borne in minJ, and all such manipulative efforts should be desisted from if one or two fair attempts fail. jMuch harm may attend their continuance. If the foreign body lie above instead of below the aperture made in the windpipe, then we may be able to push it upwards into the mouth or down- wards to the artificial opening. If the intruder is not removed by one of the above-described means, the aperture should be kept open by appropriate means; no tube of course should be introduced, but a piece of wire gauze, arranged so as to form a bag, should be put over the wound, and the temperature of the apartment kept steadily at from 60° to 80° Fahr. There is very considerable danger of inflammation of the lungs and pleura arising, and this must be jealously guarded against and carefully treated, if it occur. Its progress is often very rapid after tracheotomy, and demands prompt measures to command it. After the foreign body has been expelled, the •wound must be at once closed, and an attentive supervision of the breathing apparatus long main- tained. The instruments best fitted for the removal of foreign bodies from the air passages after tracheo- tomy, are strong but slender silver forceps, which can be bent to a curve suited to the case, and of different lengths, so that the hinge shall be outside of the wound. A loop of wire has been sometimes found to succeed well. In all cases the utmost gentleness and patience must be exercised. If the foreign body has been long present in the passages and the lungs have become seriously af- fected, there is very little ultimate good to be got from any operation, and the surgeon must ihen be guided in judging of the advisableness of inter- fering by weighing the immediate risk of the body's sojourn against the ultimate hope of success with the existing stage of the secondary disease. If the latter is so evidently the leading affection as to throw the former into the shade, then it will be a point of much niceness and difficulty to decide what alternative to choose, the patient's welfare being his first consideration, but the reputation of his art not being forgotten. Wounds and Fistula (see Larynx). Ihniia.—Rarely a protrusion of the lining mem- brane of the trachea takes place between its rings, giving rise to a tumor usually of small dimensions, of soft consistence, and augmenting when the mouth and nostrils are closed, and a strong expira- tory effort is made. Pressure diminishes its size, and thus alone can we exercise any influence over its progress or hope to cause it to disappear. Such accidents are said to arise occasionally suddenlj', after violent efforts of the voice, but they are more likely to occur when repeated prolonged expiratory efforts are made, as in blowing wind instruments. It is, however, a very rare accident indeed, and is very unfitly designated a hernia. Pneumatocele occasionally forms on the wind- pips from its perforation and the escape of air into the surrounding parts, and being thus circiun- scribed it forms a tumor, which is soft, easily effaced by pressure, tympanitic, and occasionally transparent (if prominent). If effaced by pressure it soon reappears on coughing.] [Tracheitis Infantum; Tracliealia; Croup; An- gina Trachcalis; Angina Mcml/iaiiacea vol IS'iffb- caioria; Ci/nanclie Stridula vel Lari/ngea; Laryngite Slridukttse; Diphtherite Tracheale, ^c. ^c. In this specific inflammation of the trachea in children, a whitish-grey albumino-fibrous mem- brane forms in the interior of the windpipe, im- plicating its surface more or less extensivelj-. Sometimes this deposit takes place in patches or stripes, at other times it forms a complete cast of the inside of the tube. It may be confined to the upper part of the air-passage or penetrate deeply into its ramifications. Sometimes it extends up- wards into the nasal cavity and downwards into the oesophagus. In thickness and adhesion to the underlying surface this deposit varies considerably. Its age chiefly regulates this. If fluid is effused below it, as sometimes happens, the attachment of the false membrane is much loosened. Croup only began to be carefully studied about the middle of the eighteenth century. It belongs more to the province of the physician than the surgeon, and will only be shortly described here, and that in order to render more complete the account given of the affections of the trachea. As few details as possible will be given. In the usual form of the affection seen abroad, the secretion does not partake of the tough ad- herent character it so often assumes in Great Britain, and consequently the danger attending it is not so great, in its early stages at an}' rate. Croup is frequently epidemic, and attacks almost exclu- sively children from one to seven years of age (and especially those of two and three), and kills on an average the half of those seized. It appears to prevail in some families, and in certain localities, especially those which are cold and damp. It constitutes about a twelfth part of the acute affections of childhood, and it is very apt to recur. Croup may set in suddenly, with little or no warning, but more usually it begins with syinp- toms of catarrh,—feverishness,—running at tlie nose and eyes,—hoarseness,—wheezing respiration, — rough dr}' cough,—soreness in the windpipe,— some redness in the fauces, followed by spasmodic action of the laryngeal muscles. The pyrexial symptoms may be wholly absent, or at least not attract attention for twent3'-four or thirty-six hours, and then manifest themselves by hot skin and quick pulse. The violence and pro- gress of the disease may be slight and slow, or severe and rapid. It frequently begins at night, and the interference with the respiration is its characteristic and leading feature. The inspira- tion becomes shrill, hissing, and crowing, and a peculiar hoarse " brassy " clanging cough is very distinctive. The voice, at first husky, at last dis- appears. The respiratory murmur is found to be deficient over the chest, and the expiratory sounds are prolonged. The attacks occur in paroxysms, with intervals of comparative rest, especially dur- ing the day. The dyspnoea, however, thimgh diminished in violence, never wholly disappears. The distress during the paroxysm is very great and most heart-rending to witness. The child grasps the windpipe with the energy of despair, cr inserts the fingers into the mouth in the vain hope of removing the obstruction to the breathing. 'J'he face swells and becomes oodematous and dis- coloured,—the veins of the neck are prominent and the eye-balls injected and staring. Occasionally thick mucus or portions of the fibrous casts from the air-passages, mixed with blood, arc expector-