C9-1 TENDONS tension, and to counteract the action of the above muscles. The action of the muscles may be opposed :— 1. By keeping them in a continual state of relaxa- tion. For this purpose, the leg must be kept half- bent upon the thigh.—2. By applying methodical pressure to the muscles; methodical, because it is to operate on the fleshy portion of the muscles, ana not on the tendon, the ends of which, being de- pressed by it, would be separated from each other, and, instead of growing together, would unite to the adjacent parts. The pressure should also ope- rate so as to prevent the ends of the tendon from inclining either to the right or left. J. L. Petit first devised the plan of treating the ruptured or divided tendo-Achillis, by keep- ing the leg and foot in a particular posture, with the aid of an apparatus. Seeing that the exten- sion of the foot brought the ends of the tendon into contact, it occurred to him that such exten- sion should be maintained during the whole of the treatment, in order to bring about a permanent union. This aim is, in fact, the common basis of all the numerous methods which have since been recommended. Dr. Alexander Monro (primus) happened to rupture his tendo-Achillis. When the accident took place, he heard a loud crack, as if he had suddenly broken a nut with his heel, and he ex- perienced a sensation as if the heel of his shoe had made a hole in the floor. This sensation, he says, has also been observed by others, though some have complained of a smart stroke, like what would be produced by a stone or cane. Immediately sus- pecting what had happened, the doctor extended his left foot, in which the injury had taken place, as strongly as he could with his right hand; while with the left he pressed the muscles of the calf downward, so as to bring the ends of the broken tendon as near together as possible. In this posi- tion he sat, until two surgeons came to his assist- ance. They applied compresses and a bent board to the upper part of the foot and forepart of the leg, both which they kept, as nearly as possible, in a straight line, by a tight bandage made with a long roller. But as this mode of dressing soon became very uneasy, it was changed for the fol- lowing one:—A foot-sock, or slipper, was made of double-quilted ticking, from the heel of which a belt or strap projected, of sufficient length to reacli over the calf of the leg. A strong piece, of the same materials, was prepared of sufficient breadth to surround the calf, and this was fastened with lacings. On the back part of this was a buckle, through which the strap of the foot-sock was passed, so tiiat the foot could be extended and the calf brought down at pleasure. The leg and foot were wrapt up in soft flannel, fumigated with benzoin, and the bandage was kept on day and night—the belt being made tighter when the doctor was about to go to sleep, and loosened when he was awake and on his guard. For a fortnight he did not move his foot and leg at all, but was con- veyed in a chair on castors from one part of the room to another. After this he began to move the ankle-joint, but in such a gentle manner as not to give any pain. The degree of motion was gradiiiiUy increased, as the tendon became capable of be;iriiig it, care beinc taken to stop when the motion began to create uneasiness. Tiie affected limb was moved in this way for half an hour at a time. In a few days the hollow, between the separated ends of the tendon, became imperceptible, though the part continued soft much longer. It became, however, gradually thicker and harder, until a knot was at last formed in it, apparently of a cartilaginous nature. Though this was, at first, as large as a middling plum, and gradually became softer and smaller, yet it did not disappear entirely. Having occasion to go out six weeks after the ac- cident, the doctor put on a pair of shoes, with heels two inches high, and contrived a steel machine to keep his foot in the proper position. This machine, however, he afterwards changed for another, made of the same materials as the former. It was not till five months after the accident that he thought proper to lay aside all assistance and to put the strength of the tendon to a trial. (See Monro's Works, p. C61.) The following was Desault's method, which, though it was expressly designed to fulfil the above- mentioned indications, may not be a more valuable practical plan than what was adopted by Dr. Monro. After the ends of the tendon had been brought into contact by moderate flexion of the knee, and complete extension of the foot, Desault used to fill up the hollows, on each side of the tendon, with soft lint and compresses. The roller, applied to the limb, made as much pressure on these compresses as on the tendon; and hence this part could not be depressed too much against the subjacent parts. Desault next took a band- age, about two inches broad, and long enough to reach from the toes to the middle of the thigh, and placed it under the foot, over the back of the leg and lower part of the thigh. He then began to apply a few circles of a roller round the end of the foot, so as to fix the lower extremity of the longitudinal band. After covering the whole foot with the roller, he used to make it describe the figure of 8, passing it under the foot, and across the place where the tendon was ruptured; and the method was finished by encircling the limb up- ward, with the roller, as far as the upper end of the longitudinal bandage. At the present day, it is usual not to confine the patient in bed very long; but after the inflam- mation, immediately following the accident, he is permitted to sit up, the heel being kept up- wards and the foot extended by means of a slipper and a strap, or band, which is connected to an- other strap, or band, applied round the lower part of the thigh. He should also soon avail himselt ot the aid of a high-heeled shoe. A rupture of the tendon of the extensor mus- cles of tiie leg requires nearly the same kind oi treatment as a fracture of the patella. However, pressure exactly on the broken part of the tendon should be avoided; the limb should be kept ex- tended, and Bomewliat raised; cold lotions appliei, and afterwards bleeding and leeches employed, if necessary, with other antiphlogistic measures. No bandage should be put on till the inffamraa- tion has subsided. In the course of two or three weeks, the surgeon should cause the jmnt to be gently moved, without any muscular exertion on tne pnrt of the patient himself. , . . ^ When the tendon of the triceps ^-^'^"^"^^ f'''' is ruptured, the limb is to be kept ^"-S >';,^^ applications are to he used for a few d J f'^f necessary, strict antiphlogistic treatment P" ^i ^-^- The ojcralion of dividing tliC tendon o/ Ackllcs