404 ' oscheocel:^. mechanical means alone, acting on the principle of gradual mechanical extension, even when the leg is flexed upon the thigh at a right-angle. Tenotomy may also be dispensed with, as a general rule, in cases of Talipes valgus, or flat-foot, even when severe, if occurring in young people. In these cases the contraction of the Achilles and peronei tendons, or, more properly speaking, of the muscles with which they are connected, may be overcome, and the arch of the foot completely restored, by mechanical means alone. . . With the operative and mechanical, it is gene- rally necessary also to combine what may be termed the physiological means, consisting of a well- regulated system of gymnastic exercises and passive motions, for the purpose of increasing muscular strength, and of obtaining an increased range of motion in the joints implicated in the deformity. In many cases the mechanical and physiological treatment may be conducted simul- taneously, when the more severe part of the con- traction has been overcome; and with the resto- ration of form we may also obtain restoration ot motion. This may frequently be accomplislied in contractions of the knee-joint, also m the elbow- ioint, and at the articulations of the hngers. The combination of mechanical support with gymnastics will also be found extremely useful m cases of incipient lateral curvature of the spine, and cases may thus be cured when gymnastics alone, or in combination with lying down, would certainly fail. These principles of treatment, which theoretically have generally been thought to be antagonistic to each other, have been found practically to be of the utmost service when iudiciously combined ; and there can be no doubt the gymnastic treatment of deformities has of late years been too much neglected in English Ortho- pffidv, which has relied almost exclusively upon mechanism and tenotomy. The further cultivation of gymnastics, and an investigation into tlie practical advantages to be derived from the so- called special systems of gymnastics or movements which have been advocated by various authorities on this subject, will no doubt be accomplished by those engaged in orthopedic practice, and by so doing one of the present strongholds of quackery will be destroyed. . . i • i Galvanism is another therapeutic agent, which ought to be employed to a greater extent than it has hitherto been, in tlie treatment of that large class of contractions and deformities depending upon infantile paralysis, and met with in the latei stages of that affection. I.n these cases the natural tendency is towards recovery which is sometimes complete; but partial restoration ot power always occurs, and this may be either pro- moted or retarded by the treatment adopted There can be no doubt of the advantages o galvanism when commenced early enough, aim properly applied in these cases; it should be applied thiee times a day, for a quarter of an hour each time, when the limb is immersed in hot water; or, when both legs are affected, two cans ot hot water should be used, and one of the galvanic wires dropped into the water in each can. With galvanism, in the treatment of these cases, should also be associated the daily employment ol shampooing, passive exercises, systematically con- ducted, warm clothing, and in some cases the use ot mechanical supports, to aid in the attempts to walk Where the loss of temperature is Vefy marked, as in the more severe cases of infantile paralysis, great advantage is to be derived from the use of Dr. Junod's ha;mospatic or exhausting apparatus ; by the employment of which, for a quarter of an hour every morning, the blood can be drawn into a paralytic leg in sufficient quantity to raise its temperature to the natural degree, and this it will afterwards maintain with little diminution for twenty-four hours. The apparatus is but little used at the present time, its advantages not having been sufficiently brought under the notice of the profession. By a judicious employment of the various means which modern science has placed at the disposal of the surgeon, he is now enabled to cope successfully with the large class of congenital and non-congenital deformities, which within our own recollection were always regarded as hopeless and incurable ; and the special study of this department of practice falls within the range of Orthopaedic Surgery.] {William Adams.) OSCHEOCELE. (From o(rxeov, the scrotum, and icri\v, a tumour.) A hernia which has de- scended into the scrotum. OSTEOSARCOMA or OSTEOS.\RCOSIS. (From bariov, a bone, and (rhpl, flesh.) [A term originally intended to express the conversion of the osseous tissue into a mass of less solid con- sistence than its original structure, whereby a soft or Jleshy tumour is formed along the course of the affected bone. This very indefinite term was at first employed chiefly to designate the tumors produced by the cancerous affections of bone, in which the osseous texture becomes expanded, absorbed, and replaced by a soft material, in all respects similar to carcinoma of the other tissues, but in course of time it was applied to any growth, regardless of its nature, which caused enlargement oflhe bone, and swelling of the soft parts covenngit. Much confusion has arisen from this indis- criminate use of the word, as cartilaginous, osseous, cancerous, cystic, and other growths in bone have been comprised under this common title without regard to their pathological distinctions. Although still occasionally employed in a wider sense, the term is now generally restricted to the cancerous tumours of bone ; and to these affections the present article alone has reference. Amongst the writers of the last century, Heister, J L Petit, and Duverney have particularly de- scribed this disease under the name of carmticaUon of ihe bo,ics, but they did not altogether distin- guish it from certain cases of caries and exostosis ; nor did they recognise its malignant charactei-.J Callisen regards osteosarcosis as a disorder by which the texture of the bones is converted into a fleshy or lardaceous substance, accompamed with a tendency to carcinoma. {Syslem Ch,rurg,a, klWp. 204. vol. ii. edit. 1800.) e are to understand by osteosarcoma, says JioH'r' «i alteration of the osseous structure, in which, alter more or less distension from separation of its layers, the substance of the bone degenerates, and is transformed into a mass, the texture of jhaj ^» "til!.»««.t.u. ttat .11 ih. tan,.».