OPHTHALMOSCOPE, coptible b}' nn inexperienced observer, Klaunig uses a second mirror in tb^ manner following : 'I'lie mirror for the reception of the imiige is placeii as near as possible to the eye of the patient, 111- about ]^" distant from it, and at the same !uMght. Tlie ej-e of the observer being now placed lii the proper direction, about 9" or 10" from this tirst mirror, a second concave perforated mirror of about 0" focal length is held before the observer's eye. Upon this second mirror the light of a lamp is allowed to fall, from a distance of 8", and this light is reflected to the first mirror, and from that iji a concentrated cone, into the eye of the patient. In this way, the eye is thoroughly illu- minated, and the retinal image, reflected from the first mirror, is seen by looking through the per foration of the second. T/ie Ophihatinoscope of Diirmv.—This consists of a simple lens, silvered upon one side, with the silver- ing removed in a central circle of Ji" in diameter, and fixed in a setting of blackened brass. It is so ground that its focal distance for transmitted light is 5"; but tlmt its silvered surface acting as a con- cave mirror, will bring rays received from a flame 10" distant to a focus at 6". To examine the fundus oculi, a convex lens of from 1" to li" focus is held before the patient's eye, and the mirror moved farther or nearer, ac- cording to the state of refraction, until the in- verted image is seen in the focus of the lens. Burow claims as the advantage of his instru- ment, that it facilitates ophthalmoscopic study for beginners—that is, that unpractised persons, by its means, can learn to perceive the retinal image with great readiness. The OpfUhalmoscope of Hasner.—This form of instrument is extremely simple. It consists of a circular periscopic dispersing lens, an inch in diameter, the convex side of which is silvered. In the centre, a small portion of the silvering is re- moved for a sight-hole, and the whole is put into a simple metal casing. For ordinary examination of the erect image, the surgeon should have four glasses, Nos. 4, 6, 8, and 12; but, for more exact exami- nation, it is wise to have in reserve the almost superfluous and seldom needed silvered concave glasses. Six or eight such glasses, fitted into a case, form the most complete and the most compendious apparatus for the examination of the direct image. In use, these glasses are held by the margin between the thumb and the index finger, and so turned obliquely towards the light, that a lumi- nous disc is thrown upon the patient's eye. The eye of the observer is placed close behind the glass. The simple application and easy change of glasses, the compact form of the whole, the correc- tion of reflectinns, the approximation of the observer's eye to the mirror, and of the mirror to the eye of the patient, are all reasons why this form of ophthalmoscope merits high commendation. (</) Prismatic Ophllutlmuscopcs. — Ulridh's /"mills.—Professor TJlrich, of Giittingen, has the merit of having been the first to apply the com- plete reflection cfTected by prisms, to the illumina- tion of tiie backgnuiud of the eye. He took two prisms of glass, presenting in section the forms of right-angled triangles with equal containing sides, ■'nul so iniitcd them, that one containing side of the upper prit-m corresponded with the lower, and that the hypothenuse of one intersected that of tlie uther at right angles. VOL. II. 385 The Ophthalmoscope of Fi-uMius.~rh\s instru- ment IS a nmdification of the original ophthalmo- scope ot Helmholtz, suggested by the need of a brighter illumination, and consists in this, that instead of four plates of glass, Friibelius fastened in front of the instrument a rectangular glass prism with plane sides, and drilled through from the hypothenuse to one side, so that rays from the flame, falling upon the hypothenuse, may be reflected into the patient's eye; and returning rays may be transmitted, without reflection, through the perforation of the prism and a concave lens, to the observer. For easy application of the con- cave lens, Frobelius employs a Rekoss's disc, with glasses of Nos. 6, 8, 10, and 12. The Ophthalmoscope of Meyerstein.—This, the first instrument contrived by Meyerstein, is formed of a plane-sided right-angled glass prism, per- forated from one side to the hypothenuse, and fixed in a setting. The rays of light fiilling upon the side of the prism, reach the hypothenuse, and are from tlience reflected into the patient's eye. The raj's returning from the eye pass in great part through a canal in the prism, and thence, through the tube of the setting, to the eye of the observer. The Ophthalmoscope ofCoccius.—It consists of a small rectangular unequal-sided glass prism, of which the hypothenuse is turned towards the source of light. The rays are refracted from the side next the observer, through the other side, to the eye of the patient. The prism rests on a short handle, which is screwed into a brass basis of the prism, and supports also the setting with a concave lens. The setting is open on the side next the prism, so that different lenses may be inserted and placed close to the prism. At the lower angle of the setting is a simple hinge-joint, by which the con- cave lens can be placed obliquely to the observer's line of sight, so as to obviate refraction. The flame is placed near the head of the patient, and at the same level. The eye of the observer must be held close to the reflecting surface of the prism, and must be directed close to its angle. For the sake of stronger illumination, Zehender employed prisms, of which the sides containing the right angle were ground to be either concave or convex as required. While, on account of their total reflection, the illumination by prisms is very good, yet still their application in practice has more disadvantages than benefits. They are high in price, their manage- ment is difiicult, and in repeated or very careful examinations, they become fatiguing, because, in order to inspect the whole surface of the retina, the position of the flame requires frequent altera- tion. Moreover, the observer loses the focus that is afl'orded by a concave mirror, or by a plane mirror united with a convex lens. _ (e) Solar Oiihthalmoscopes.— Under the expres- sive heading "A Sun Ophthalmoscope," Mr. Slreat- field has published a communication received by him from Dr. Macdonald, of New York, who states that he has been in the habit of using solar, in lien of artificial light, for the purpose of ophthal- moscopic investigation. The reflection from plane or concave mirrors being too dazzling, convex mirrors only are employed. Of these Dr. Mac- donald uses two—one with a curve of 4" radius, and tile other of 8". They are about 1" in diameter! composed of glass, and their silvering is removed from a central circle 1"' in diameter. The patient C C