C04 the symphj'sis as a centre. SPINA , - When it has pene- tiated to the proper extent, that is, from four to five inches, resistance is felt, the screw is then turned to open the blades at the uterine end ; the plug is projected by the contraction of the vagina, and per- haps by a bearing-down effort of the patient. If the instrument has been rightly directed, the os uteri will have fallen into the field between the ex- panded ends of the blades. Should it not be seen, it has been pressed behind one or other blade. It will sometimes be released and fall into view if you gently withdraw the instrument a little way. Or sometimes, the margin of the cervix only is caught, and it may be drawn completely into view by the sound. The sound is further of use by drawing the os open so as to enable the operator to see a little distance into the cervical canal. This object is still further attained by the use of a Metroscope, an instrument which may be de- scribed as a secondary speculum, whose function it is to open the cervix uteri, just as the primary speculum opens the vagina. To get a satisfactory view of the os, and especially of the state of the tissues, it is generally necessary to wipe away the secretions by means of a pledget of cotton wool, carried by the speculum forceps. "When the os and cervix uteri have been inspected, and, if neces- sary, treated by the application of medicaments, the screw is turned back to allow the blades to close, the instrument is slowly withdrawn, follow- ing the converse proceeding described for the intro- duction. This is the time to observe the condition of the vaginal canal and vulva. As the ends of the blades retreat, the walls of the vagina close in upon them, returning to their ordinary state of approximation. During this process, every part of the vaginal walls comes into view. It is not necessary to expose the patient in this opera- tion. The prelimiuary digital examination and the introduction of the speculum are performed under the clothes, part of which can be gathered round the vulva and the ,speculum, so as to leave no- thing but the mouth of the instrument exposed when the plug is withdrawn. With many others, I prefer the dorsal decubi- tus. The advantiiges are these: the superincum- bent weight of the intestines, aided by inspiration, press the uterus downwards, so that the os falls better into the field of the speculum ; the light, wliich generally comes in an oblique line from above downwards, penetrates directly in the axis of the speculum, to illuminate the fundus ; the operator, standing over the patient, is not in his own light,and has more perfect command in mani- pulation. The dorsal position and the bivalve specu- lum have this great advantage, that no special couch or preparation is necessary. Any sofa or bed will do. BIFIDA. \Sur(/eiy, 18G6.) This is a single-Waded instru- ment, and Its action is essentially different from that of the valvular or tubular specula. The pa- tient lies on her left side. The blade is guided into the vagina by the fingers of the left hand - and IS then held iirmly back against the perineum and posterior wall of the vagina. The patient leaning forwards a little on her abdomen, the intestines falling away from the pelvis, create a vacuum, which draws air into the vagina, and helps to keep tlie walls apart. For most operations that have to be performed on the cervix uteri and vagina, this instrument, by giving greater space, and exposing a larger surface of vagina, offers the greatest faci- lities. It IS especially useful in the operation for vesico-vaginal ' ■ ' A very useful form of instrument is the specu- lum known as Fergussoii's. It consists of a glass cylinder, silvered on the outer aspect, and strength- ened by a coating of vulcanite. It is recommended by its smoothness, cleanliness, the brilliant light thrown upon the parts to be inspected, and by its resisting the action of the acid caustics sometimes used. The expanding valves are, however, neces- sary when free access is required for the passage of other instruments, and generally for manipula- tion. A very distinct form of speculum is the duck-hill of Dr. Marion Sims. {Clinical Notes on Uterine ;sico-vaginal fistula, although sometimes simple It spatulas of different widths, bent at convenient ^"IdV^ convenient.] Robert Barnes. bPHA'CELUS. (from ff<p6.C<a, to destroy.) Complete mortification, as contrasted with that stage of It, in which the parts are not yet totally deprived of life, and sometimes termed ganarene. (See Mortification.) SPICA. (from (nraxus, an ear of corn.) A name given to a bandage, in consequence of its turns being thought to resemble the rows of an ear of corn. In order to apply the spica bandage to the shoulder, the margins of the axilla; must first be protected from the effects of the pressure, by means of soft compresses, and the end of a com- mon roller is then to be placed under the armpit, on the sound side. After conveying the bandage backward, obliquely over the scapula, the surgeon 18 to bring it forward over the injured shoulder. The roller is next to descend under the armpit, then be carried upward again, and made to cross on the deltoid muscle. It is now to be carried ob- liquely over the front of the chest, and under the opposite armpit, where the end of it is to be pinned, or stitched. The bandage is next to pass across the back, over the part of the roller previously ap- plied in this situation, and is to be conveyed round the head of the os biachii, so as to form a turn, or doloire, with the first circle of the roller. Three or four doloires, or turns, each of which covers about one-third of the preceding one, are to be made, and then the upper part of the arm is to be once surrounded with a plain circle of the bandage. This last circular application leaves between it, and the cross previously made, a triangular, equi- lateral space, technically uamed by writers geranis. The roller is now to be carried upward in a spiral manner; its head is to be brought to the opposite armpit, and the application of the whole concludes with a few turns round the bodj'. The bandage is to be fastened with pins at the place where it commenced. SPINA BIFIDA, (i.e. the Cloven Spine.) Hydro-Rachitis. An affection attended with an in- complete state of some of the vertebra;, and a swel- ling containing fluid, which is most commonly si- tuated over the lower lumbar vertebraj, but some- times over the dorsal or cervical, and, in some in- stances, over the os sacrum. An analogous tumor sometimes occurs upon the heads of children, at- tended with imperfect ossification of the craiiiiini. The malforniatiun of the spine seems to consist in a deficiency of one or more of the spinous processes and arches of the vertebra;. Sometimes, indeed, these processes are wanting, throughout the whole length of the vertebral column, as was seen in the