I I the white corpuscles of the blood are not aug- mented. That the organisation of the blood is deeply affected in leuka;mia, seems to be indicated by its 2^ost mortem examination. Soberer obtained blood from the body after death, in two cases, and submitted it to examination. It did not coagulate thoroughly, but formed a gelatinous semi- ' coagulated thick mass, with a surface at first blackish, and on exposure to the air it became more or less red and assumed a marbled appear- . ance. In one case it had a slightly acid reaction, ; and coagulated perfectly, when boiled with water. The filtrate contained many remarkable substances which do not occur in healthy blood. In the one i case: 1. Gluten, or a substance closely allied to it. ; 2. A peculiar organic matter forming an interme- 1 diate link between the albuminous bodies and i gluten. 3. Hypoxanthine amounting to 3 or 10 . grains to 4 ounces of blood. 4. Formic, acetic, and lactic acids. In the second case, there was no . gluten, but hypoxanthine, leucine, uric, lactic and ' formic acids were found; most of which substances I appertain to the splenic juice. {Dat/'s Physiological ' Chemistry, 1860, p. 248.) TJie treatment of this disease has hitherto proved t eminently unsuccessful, nearly every case observed i having proved fatal. Quinine has frequently been I administered on the ground of a malarious origin. Ilodine has also been extensively employed; but i the remedy which appeared to offer the best pro- tspect of success is bromine. One grain of the I latter has been given three or four times a day. [ Under these remedies the health has sometimes I improved, and the splenic tumor diminished, but I the symptoms have nearly always returned and 'pursued their fatal course. Leiicocytosis. A term lately introduced to re- • present a transitory condition in which an in- r creased proportion of the colourless corpuscles of ithe blood appears to be dependent upon an affec- 'tion of the lymphatic glands. {Virchov's Cell. ' PatMoyy, p. 167.) Erysipelatous and diffuse phlegmonous inflammations, and also typhoid diseases unattended with any local developeraent of fibrin, but early conjoined with swelling of the lymphatic glands, are attended with an increase of >the colourless col-puscles. In such cases the cells are ■represented as smaller than in leukaemia, their inuclei being proportionately large, and the cell wall often so closely approximated as to give them tthe appearance of free nuclei. The blood is at •the same time hypinotic. Virchov believes that lin such cases the enlarged glands furnish to the •blood, through the lymph, a larger number of cells, and that in proportion to the predominance of these white corpuscles the formation of the red icorpuseles is obstructed.] //. Ancell. [Bibliography.—Willcs, Guy's Hospital Reports, Ber. iii. vol. v. p. 109. 1859. Virchov, Cellular Fatho- lOCT, trans, by Dr. Chance, and J. Hushes Hcnnett, M.D. Wallace, Glasgow Med. Journiil, April, 1855 Kcase). Irwcll, Medical Times, vol. xxix. p. 430 \Leuk.-emia associated with goitre).] LIGATURE. In the article H/EiMORiuiAaE, it has been explained, that the immediate effect of a :;ight ligature on an artery, is to cut through its ■niddle and internal coats, a circumstance that lends very much to promote the adhesion of the ppposite sides of the vessel to each other. Hence i think with Dr. Jones, in opposition to Scarpa' •hat the form and mode of applying a ligature to VOI„ II. LIGATURE. j-gg an .artery should be such as are most certain of d.v.d.ng the above coats of the vessel in a regular manner. A broad flat ligature does not leem likely to answer this purpose well; because it is scarcely possible to tie it smoothly round the artery which is apt to be thrown into folds, or to be puck- ered by it, and consequently, to have an irregular bruised wound made in its middle and internal coats. (Jones.) A ligature of an irregular form is likely to cut through these coats more completely at some parts than others; and if it does not per- fectly divide them, though adhesion may yet take place, it is a slower and less certain event, and secondary haemorrhage more likely to follow. The fear of tying a ligature too tight may often lead to the same disadvantages. These and many other important circumstances are noticed in the article HEMORRHAGE. The principles which should guide the surgeon m the use of the ligature, were not known until the late Dr. Jones published his valuable treatise on Hajuiorrhage. As an able surgeon has observed, " He has banished (at least in this country) the use of thick and broad threads, of tapes, of re- serve ligatures, of cylinders of cork and wood, linen compresses, and all the contrivances which, employed as a security against bleeding, only served to multiply the chances of its occur- rence." (Laiorence, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi.' p. 162.) In the article Amputation, I have noticed the method of cutting off both ends of the ligature close to the knot, on the face of the stump, with the view of lessening the quantity of extraneous matter in the wound, and promoting the complete union of the divided parts, without suppuration. This plan was tried by Mr. Lawrence. "The method I have adopted," says this gentleman," con- sists in tying the vessels with fir,e silk Ugatures and cutting off the ends as close to the knot as is consistent with its security. Thus the foreign mat- ter 18 reduced to the insignificant quantity which forms the noose actually surrounding the vessel, and the knot by which that noose is fastened. Of the silk which I commonly employ, a portion suf- ficient to tie .a large artery, when the ends are cut off, weighs between and of a grain : a similar portion of the thickest kind I have tried weighs -V of a grain, and of the slenderest -gL." The kind of silk twist, which is commonly known in the shops by the name of dentist's silk and which is used in making fishing-lines, is the strongest material, in proportion to its size, and therefore the best calculated for our pui-pose which requires considerable force in drawing the' thread tight enough to divide the fibrous and inter- nal coats of the arteries. This twist is rendered ■ery hard and stiff by means of gum, which may be removed by boiling it in soap-and-water; but the twist then loses a part of its strength. 'The stoutest twist, which Mr. Lawrence has used is a very small thread, compared with ligatures made of inkle. The quantity of such a thread neces- sary for the noose and knot on the iliac artery, weighs J(j of a grain; or, if the gum has been removed, about Jj. But the finest twist, kept in the silk-shops, is strong enough, in its hard state for any surgical purpose; and the noose and knot, iiccordiiig to Mr. Lawrence's statement, would not weigh of a grain. It further appears, from the report of this cen- 0