URINARY CALCULT. 845 If they cannot be readily touched with a piobe, let not the surgeon rashly conceive, that he is jiistitied in endeavouring to discover them with his knife. Tlieir situation maybe such as to baffle all his endeavours, and the operation itself might cause a most dangerous hajuiorrhage, and other fatal mischief. Tile opening of an abscess of the kidney may remain a long while fistulous, and, indeed, war- rant the conclusion that the healing is prevented by the presence of some extraneous substances; but a prudent practitioner will never think of performing any operation for their extraction, un- less they can be distinctly felt, and nature has brought them tolerably near to the surface. (See Nephrotomy.) Sir A. Cooper, in his lectures, mentions a singular case, in which Mr. Cline was able plainly to feel, in a very thin patient, a cal- cuhis situated in the kidney. He adverts also to another example, in which a great deal of puru- lent matter had been voided from the bowels be- fore death, and, on opening the bod}', a calculus was found lodged in the ureter, between which tube and the colon an open communication ex- isted, through which the abscess of the kidney had discharged itself into the intestines. In one parti- cular ca^e, related by the. same experienced sur- geon, a calculus, fi.'ced in the ureter, gave rise to a renal abscess, which burst into the cavity of the abdomen, and the patient's death quickly followed. Urinary calculi, which form upon foreign bodies accidentally introduced into the bladder, and act- ing as nuclei, are always single, unless the num- ber of foreign bodies themselves happen to be greater It is curious also to find, from the ob- servations of Mr. Murray Forbes {On Gravel and Gold, p. 74, 8vo. Lend. 1793) and Dr. Marcet, that, in such instances, the deposition most fre- quently, if not always, consists of the earthy phos- phates, and especially of the fusible calculus. Thus, in the collection of Mr. R. Smith, of Bristol, there is a pin, a piece of bougie, and four pieces of stick, coated with fusible matter. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 11.) But when calculi originate from a particular diathesis, there may be many of them lodged in the bladder at the same time. Se- veral distinct nuclei may descend successively from the kidneys, and each may increase in a se- parate manner. Sometimes, however, calculi in the bladder, which are at first distinct and uncon- nected, become afterwards cemented together, so as to make only one mass. The magnitude of calculi in the bladder is ge- nerally in an inverse ratio to their number. Some hundreds have been found in one bladder; but they were not larger than a pea. One very remark- able instance has lately been recorded, in which 3.08 calculi, from the size of a pea to that of an olive, were found in the bladder after death. By analysis, they were found to consist of phosphate of lime, phosphate of magnesia, and uric acid. {Miuj. dcr Auslandischen Literalur, TIamb. Jan. Ftb. 1822; and Joiirn. of Foreiyn Med. No. 15.) It is observed by Sir Astlty Cooper, that when a great number of calculi are lound in the bladder, the circumstance is generally attended with an en- largement of the prostate gland, directly behind which a sacculus is formed. In cases of diseased prostate gland, the bladder can seldom be com- pletely emptied; and this partial stagnation of 'he urine in the sac, here alluded to, is supposed to facilitate the production of calculi. From their number and collision against each other, their sur- faces are generally smooth, and their shape is commonly roundish. (See Med. Chir. Trcms. vol. xi. p. 359; find art. Phostate Gland.) Other calculi have been met with of so large a size, that they were more than six inches in dia- n;eter. In Fonrcroy's museum, and in that of the Ecole de Me'decine, at Paris, may be seen some calculi, which filled the whole cavity of the blad- der; and, in the Phil. Trans, for 1009, the late Sir James Earle described an enormous stone which he extracted, after death, from the bladder of the late Sir David Ogilvie, who had been un- successfully cut for it. This calculus, which was of the fusible kind, weighed forty-four ounces, and was of an oval shape, its long axis measuring six- teen inches, and the shorter fourteen. The average size of vesical calculi may be compared with that of a chestnut, walnut, or a small hen's egg. Tlieir size depends very much upon their composition, the largest being of the fusible phosphalic kind. Their weight differs from a few grains to upwards of fifty ounces; but, on an average, it is from two to six ounces. Their weight is not always pro- portioned to their size; for substances of different qualities enter into their composition, and diversify their heaviness. The urinary salts, in calculous patients, are not continually precipitated in the same quantities: in some cases, indeed, the process appears to be even suspended for a considerable time. Hence, a stone of middling size, already formed, may increase but very slowly; and it has actually happened that a calculus, which could be plainly felt with a sound, has remained more than ten years in the bladder, and yet, after all this time, been only of a mode- rate size. According to Dr. Marcet, the form of urinary calculi is mostly spheroidal, sometimes eag-shaped, but often flattened on two sides, like an almond. (P. 50.) Sometimes the calculous matter, which descends from the kidneys, is in the form of minute spherical grains, which have a singular ten- dency to unite either to each other, or to calculi already lodged in the bladder. When there are several loose calculi in the bladder together, they seldom lie long in contact with each other while their size is diminutive, but are incessantly changing their situation, as the pa- tient moves about, or alters the position of his bodv. Hence their increase is at first regular and uni- form; but when they have attained a more consi- derable size, or by their numbers compose a large mass, their relative situation is more permanent and many of their surfaces being in this maimer usually covered, no longer receive any additional depositions. Every other part of these calculi, however, goes on increasing. It is thus that stones, with surfaces corresponding to those of other stones, are produced, and which are aptlv denominated by the French writers pierres d faceUos. Dr. Marcet has likewise taken notice of the angular shape of certain calculi, and remarked the rare occurrence of tlieir being sometimes almost cubic. His work contains the engraving of ii species of calculus, vvliich somewhat resembles a pear, with a circular protuberance at its broader end, apparently moulded in the neck of the bladder. The same intelligent writer has also particularly