c 2 of gnngrene as another of the consequences or re- sulls of inflammation. Lastly, inflammation may prove ftital to the life of the patient. This may happen — 1st, if the organ inflamed is necessary to life, as the heart, Iiuigs, and brain, so that life cannot go on if its functions be interfered with; 2ndly, \he pain, ir- ritation, and exhaustion may cause fatal syncope, as in the case of peritonitis and inflammation of the abdominal viscera; Srdly, exhaustion may occur through extensive spoiling of the blood, or the drain of large and long-continued suppuration. Section 5.—Minnie anatomi/ of uiflaiuedparls. ]st. Morbid appearances of various in/lamed tissues in various stages.—" Without doubt,'' says an eminent writer, " every tissue in which inflammation takes place has properties which influence its progress; without doubt, also, some tissues are prone to par- ticular modes of inflammation, and exempt from others." (James, On Injiammalion, p, 266.) Accordingly, in post-mortem examinations of in- flamed tissues, very different appearances are met with, depending not only on the stage which the disease had reached, but largely also on the nature of the tissue and organ inflamed. " If the palm of the hand be chafed by long- continued friction, as for example in rowing a boat, the first thing that will be observed will be that the skin is redder than natural, implying that the vessels are abnormally loaded with blood, and, if the irritation be continued, the cuticle will be raised m the form of a blister. If now the loosened epidermis be artificially removed on the earliest occurrence of effusion, a scarlet raw surface will be exposed; and, on pressing the tender dermis firmly with the finger and suddenly removing the pressure, it will be found that while the redness will, for the most part, have momentarily disappeared, there will be many minute red points from which the blood cannot be expelled. This shows that while the blood is in part still free to move, there are some minute vessels completely clogged with it " CLister On the Early Stages of Inflammation, in Phil, rrans. for 1858, p. 645.) Here are shown the simplest morbid appearances of an inflamed part—congestion, not wholly removable by pressure and efl'usion. But all inflamed textures, almost from the commencement of inflammation, present a third morbid characteristic; viz., a change in their own physical condition, consisting in a greater or less softening or breaking down of their intimate Structure. "This change commences in the first stage of inflammation, and may proceed to such a .degree in the second, as to render even the bones soft and fragile, and convert all the tissues into a mere pnlp. It appears to affl-ct the uniting cellular element, more than any other, of tissues and organs ; and to do so in proportion to the degree of mflammation by which it has been pre- ceded. {Carsioell, Elementary Form of Disease, J^asc. 1.) Microscopic investigation, however, Shows, as will presently be pointed out, that it attccts equally the minute structure of all tissues, fvery mflnmed tissue or organ, therefore, presents, m varying degrees, a combination of those three morbid chi.nges — a breaking up of its own struc- Hire, congestion, and effusion. A distinction has been drawn between the in- Hammation of the so-called 'parenchymatous' ?«an8, and that of membranous surfaces. lu the ««nierthe inflammatory exudations are neccssaiilv INFLAMMATION. jg retained in the part, mingled with the inflamed textures themselves ; in the latter, on the other hand, these exudations are, for the most part, poured out on the surface of the membranes and therefore become, as it were, foreign to the inflamed texture. It will presently be seen that the terra parenclymatous inflammation has been recently employed by Virchow in a very different sense. The precise morbid appearances of different in- flamed tissues are described at length under their several heads. {See articles on Ekysipelas, Scrofula, Carbuncle, Diseases of Bones, Joints, Eye, Testis, &o.) It is proposed here to bring together merely the leading peculiarities, so far as is necessary for a full comprehension of the pathology of the disease. Cellular or areolar tissue is liable to two general forms of inflammation — circumscribed and diffuse. The former has been adopted by us as the type of inflammation in general. If a part so inflamed be cut into, there ensues, from its whole thickness, an immediate copious flow of blood, still fluid, but containing numerous small reddish flocculi. The general appearances are well described by Gendrin: "If one dissects the cellular tissue round a large wound during the violence of the inflammation before suppuration, one sees that on the borders of the wound, beyond the granulations, the cellular tissue is red, hard to the touch, and yet easy to tear; it ia no longer extensible or retractile ; a homogeneous, opaque, and gelatini-form red matter is infiltrated in its areolse, and, as it were, incorpo- rated with it so completely that it cannot be washed out. Pressure only squeezes out a red, flocculent, opaque serosity, often bearing with it fatty detritus. Th ese characters are less and less marked in pro- portion to the distance from the wound." It is only at a considerable distance beyond the direct area of inflammation that the cellular tissue has recovered its normal elasticity. All the vessels are swollen, and more evident than in health. This ig rendered especially manifest by injection, which, however, cannot be made to penetrate the focus of the inflammation. The serous infiltration extends beyond the limits of inflammatory redness, more or less in proportion to the laxity of the tissues. Mixed with it are commonly air bubbles of post- mortem or\gix\. The oedema extends deeply between, and even into the substance of the muscles. " The' fatty tissue is converted into a reddish oryellowish soft, semi-diffluent pulp, which, at a later period, mixes with the pus." If the inflammation is con- tinued some days, the natural quantity of fat in the part appears to be considerably diminished. In the centre of the inflamed area, there are com- monly some small extravasations of black blood mixed with the serum, and some small vessels may be seen to be ruptured. (Gendrin, Hist. Anat. des Infammations, p. 14-16.) As the inflammation proceeds to suppuration, the redness is less intense, and still less so after the pus is fully formed. " The cellular tissue is then a spongy texture, penetrated and infiltrated with puriform serosity, which soon becomes true pus." At this time, the tissues bounding the inflammation arc found hardened from infiltration of fibrin, which at a still later period forms the boundary of an abscess. But, beyond this thickon- j ; ' J V...U VII ivi\i.-ii- ing, the cfl'usion is more and more serous, gradually losing itself in the surrounding cellular tissue. (See Art. AnscESS.)