698 TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE. muscles, and the various movements of the thighs, but the pain is thereby rendered more violent and the attacks more frequent than under ordinary circumstances, so that on this account it has occasionally been found necessary to remove the gland. In some cases the svmptoms will be very severe, and simulate those of a hernia, or of a bubo InUam- ination may also be excited in the testis during its descent, by its arrea and constriction at the ex- ternal abdominal ring, in which case great pamand swelling result. Spasm of the cremaster muscle will sometimes be excited by retention of the testicle in the narrow space between the abdominal rings, and if the organ be inflamed, much additional suffering is occasioned. Orchitis may be met with in infants and very young children, and in these cases it is often diffi- cult to assign a cause for the attack. "The symptoms were acute, and the swelling considerable,'" Mr. Curling remarks of certain cases which occurred in his practice, " but the disease soon subsided, and it was always confined to one testicle." (A Fraclical Treatise on Diseases of the Testis, p. 272.) Inflammation of the epididymis, or of the tunica vaginalis, Vugijialitis, as it has been termed by M. Bouchoux, is, however, far more frequent at this age than inflammation of the gland itself.] A patient with acute inflammation of the testicle should wear a suspensory bandage, and keep him- self quiet on a sofa, or even in bed in the recumbent position. Leeches should be applied to the scrotum, or along the course of the spermatic cord; and, if the local and general symptoms be severe, it may be necessary to take blood from the arm, or from the loins by cupping. When leeches cannot be obtained, the surgeon may puncture three or four veins of the scrotum, with the pomt of the lancet introduced transversely •with respect to these vessels, which will then bleed freely, more especially if the parts be placed in warm water; but this will not afford so much benefit as in epididymitis, unless the scrotum be also inflamed. The recumbent position does not obviate the necessity for supporting the testicle with a sus- pensory bandage or handkerchief; and the inflamed part should thus be brought towards the abdomen, and not suffered to fall between tlie thighs, which would destroy the salutary influence of the re- cumbent posture. When the patient has not a regular suspensory bandage, he may support the part very well with a handkerchief, which should be fastened at each end to another handkerchief, or band, placed round the loins. With respect to local applications, cold evaporat- ing lotions sometimes answer best ; and the use of ice has been strongly recommended, but it cannot be borne when the pain is very severe ; in most in- stances, warm fomentations and poultices are pre- ferable. When leeches are used, it is an excellent plan, after they drop off, to apply a poultice, into which the bites will still continue to bleed for some time very freely, without any occasion for the surgeon or patient to take further trouble to promote the hfemorrhage. Warm emollient appli- cations are supposed to act beneficially, by their relaxing effect, on the fibrous textures covering the swollen testicle. I'l addition to the foregoing means, the bowels should be kept open with antimonial saline parga- tives ; and, during tlie prevalence of severe pain, or great nervous irritation, opium or morphia should be freely administered. The liquor pluinbi subacetatis dilutus, with or without a small quantity of spirit of wine added to it ; or the liquor ammon. acet., if no leech-bites are present; or a solution of one drachm of the muriate of ammonia in a pint of water, are all of them applications in common use, when cold is judged advantageous. Should the inflammation not yield quickly, the local bleeding may be repeated, and even in some cases venesection. Emetics and nauseating doses of tartrate of anti- mony are occasionally resorted to. Mr. Hunter states that he has known vomiting to remove the swelling almost instantaneously. *• The effects of the vomit most probably arise from the sympathy between the stomach and the testicle." (fln the Venereal Disease, p. 91.) [Full doses of tartar emetic, frequently repeated, are of great value, and, generally, when nausea is produced, the pain is much alleviated ; in most cases opium may be advantageously combined with the antimony. Hot or vapour baths commonly afford relief and may be frequently resorted to. When there is pain or a colicky sensation in the bowels, hot fomentations, with opium or turpentine, ap- plied to the abdomen will speedily allay these symptoms. As previously mentioned, several punctures with a lancet into the body of the tes- ticle, and repeated, if necessary, are said to be of great service in relieving the pain, by diminishing the tension of the tunica albiiginea ; when there is much fresh effusion into the tunica vaginalis, re- moval of the fluid has been recommended, as in epididymitis.] Sir Astley Cooper notices certain irritalde con- stitutions, in which the continuance of depletion will not succeed. " Here," he says, " the best prac- tice, when the pulse is jerking, the patient irritable, and the part painful, is to give the submiuriate of mercury with pulvis ipecacuanhte comp.' As the inflammation subsides, ointments contain- ing iodine or the iodide of mercury may be employed wfth the view of dispersing the induration ; so like- wise the emplastrum ammon. cum hydrargyro, or a mercurial ointment with the extract of opium or belladonna. Sir Astley Cooper combines with local means constitutional treatment, as small doses of the bichloride of mercury, or pil. iiydrarg. gr. ij., ant. tart. gr. \ ; or extract, colocynth. comp. gr. iij. with ipecacuanh. gr. ij., made into a pill, and taken every nin-ht. If nausea be excited, this he deems advantageous. He speaks also favourably of the effects of the liquor potassfe, the pil. hydrarg. chloridi comp., and the tincture of iodine, its effects being carefully watched. . . e [In this stage the iodide of potassium is often ot great use, or if a mercurial treatment be indicated, the protoiodide or biniodide of mercury m small doses may be advantageously exhibited. If, as sometimes happens, after the acute attack; has passed awny, a disposition to a periodic return of inflammation in the testis be left, qu.nine, or arsenic, in the form of Donovan's or Fowler s solu- tions, will bo of service in checking it. When orchitis occurs in young children, icst, with a purgative saline and evaporating lotions, 18 usually a sufficient treatment.]