most frequently white fibrous tissue, iutermixcd with blood-vessels. It may become inflamed, or ulcerated, or thin portions may burst, the " aqueous" escape, and the staphyloma temporarily collapse, or the lens, the " vitreous," or all the contents of the sclerotic niay escape. The collapsed tunics may become distended again by fluid. In some cases bleeding from the choroidal veins between the sclerotic and choroid, sometimes to a considerable extent, or ophthalmitis, follows the rupture of the staphyloma. The basis of the staphyloma gradually, or abruptly, goes over into adjoining cornea or scle- rotic. Its posterior surface may be smooth or uneven. At the portions covered by the posterior elastic lamina, no adhesions of the iris are found, file debris of black or brown pigment on the pos- terior surface of the staphyloma belong to the distended ins. An instrument thrust through the stapiiyloma into the eye at once enters the pos- terior chamber, provided there be fluid intervening between it and the lens. The latter may have escaped, together with the capsule, or it may be opaque or adherent to the staphyloma, or more or less displaced, though not adherent. Recurrent attacks of ophthalmia or of iritis from partial adhesions of the margin of the pupil to the staphyloma from disturbances caused by displace- ment &c. of the lens, with or without sympathetic changes in the fellow eye, may occur. We fre- quently find that if the staphyloma appeared some time after " some inflammation of the eye," glaucomatous changes exist which, adding them- selves to those caused by the cicatrix in the cornea, produce a degree of impairment of sight which is not proportionate to that which would be caused by the staphyloma alone. In these cases, if abscision be performed, we often have intra- ocular hemorrhage or suppuration follow the operation. Treatment.—A staphyloma, if not treated, may remain stationary for years. It may burst fre- quently and occasionally give rise to the changes mentioned above. The bursting relieves the patient temporarily, and many patients to ease themselves soon learn to puncture the thinnest part, or the one they observe giving way spon- taneously. They thus for years alleviate the dis- tress caused by the size of the staphyloma. In patients with a fresh prolapse of the iris, or with sloughing of portions of cornea where a staphy- loma is likely to follow, we should never neglect to apply a bandage over the closed eyelids, to order instillations of atropia, so as to lessen the tension of the eye during cicatrisation. An iridectomy done at this stage, followed by gentle pressure, will be found of great service. The eyelids are kept bound up, until a firm cica- trix has formed and are kept closed again if any tendency of the cicatrix becoming staphylomatous shows itself. A staphyloma of long standing, part of the cornea being clear and the retina sensitive throughout, is treated by iridectomy with removal of the lens, and with abscision of the staphyloma. _ If its walls appear thin, a non-staphylo'matous cicatrix may be obtained by puncturing the staphyloma, to allow the fluid accuiiuilated behind to escape, and then by making with scissors n vertical incision througii the staphyloma from its apex to its base. Its walls, by properly applied STAPHYLOMA. 62? pressure, if necessary assisted by a suture, are then made to overlap each other, and are ex- pected to undergo adhesion (the anterior surface of the one with the posterior surface of the other half). The eyelids are kept bound up until all vascularity of the conjunctiva and sclerotic have subsided. Excision or abscision of the eyeball with inser- tion of an artificial eye are indicated if the staphy- loma causes pain or sympathetic irritation of the fellow eye. The patient, if he wishes the operation per- formed for cosmetic reasons, though there be per- ception of light with the staphylomatous eye, should be informed of the probability of losing the perception of light by the operation, and also of the trouble connected with the wearing of an ar- tificial eye. A better result, as regards appear- ance, IS obtained by abscision, but the repeated occurrence of suppuration of previously abscised eyes, or the non-cessation of sympathetic irritation, recommend in poor persons excision, as the quicker and safer treatment. Abscision should, however, always be performed in staphyloma following purulent ophthalmia. STAPHYLOMA OP THE SCLEROTIC. When meeting with this kind of staphyloma we must bear in mind that the sclerotic is not the only tunic altered in curvature, but that the staphylomatous condition extends also to the deeper tunics, e. g. in a posterior staphyloma, in the region of the yellow spot, also to the corre- sponding choroid, retina and vitreous substance. The portions of the sclerotic over the ciliary processes, round the optic nerve, especially over the yellow spot, and of the equatorial part of the eyeball, frequently become staphylomatous The first IS termed ciliary staphyloma, the second posterior staphyloma, and the third equatorial stapiiyloma. The entire ciliary region may be altered in curvature, or the entire sclerotic be changed in shape, causing protrusion of the eveball. A large staphyloma in the regu.n of the \-elIow spot may exist without any protrusion, though it impair the mobility of the eye. The spots of the sclerotic through which cho- roidal veins pass, become staphylomatous more frequently in the course of chronic morbid chances accompanied by increase of tension. The size shape, and colour of the staphyloma varies Small ciliary staphyloma appear as blueish-black hu\mns smooth spots or streaks, alternating with more healthy (white) portions of the sclerotic, and radiating from near the margin of the cornea These formerly were thought to be varicose veins of the choroid. They are caused by atrophic and staphylomatous portions of the tunics of the ciliary region separated from each other by more healthy parts, these latter corresponding to the non-staphylomatous (white) parts of the sclerotic Ciliary staphylomata lead to displacement "of the cornea, the distance between the insertion of one or several of the recti-muscles and the marcin of the cornea being altered. Tlie equatorial staphyloma we often find behind or at the side of the sclerotic insertion of he superior rectus muscle. It has been mistaken or intra-ocular tumor, of which, however, it may be a complication. All staphylomata of the scle- s s 2 I