I-JECROSIS, Troja, in liis tl,i,.(j expei-iraent upon the rege- iienition of bones, remnrkecl, that forty-two liours ivUer the destruction of the medulla, tiiere took pliice, between the bone and the periosteum, nn elhision of lymph, which was at first thin and in small quantity, but afterwards became thicker, lie noticed, in tlie midst of this gelatinous sub- stance, some small spaces, ivliere it ivas deficient ami u-hich hud, instead of if, a subtile, whitish dry incnislaiion, which, though tolerably adherent could be rtMvd off. These small spaces, according '0 Jroja, produce the apertures called the cloacw {iroja, p. 45.) In another experiment, he had an opportunltv of examnnng the above little spaces at the end of iorty-eight hours : he affirms, that they were re- placed by the large apertures, or cloaca, of the |iew bone (P. 47.), and that such openings were nivanably formed in the place of the small in- «ustfcd spaces already described. (P. 58.) As iroja took notice, that no lymph was efiused at these particular points, he was inclined to impute the circumstance to a defect in the ossification, ^n^, perhaps to tU death of some parts of the peri. i^n tvh!' 1 acknowledges, that the mode in which he formation of the cloaca happens is exceedingly obscure; and expresses his belief, that Irojas account of it is the nearest to the truth Jiut, says he, one thing is certain, namely, that tliese openings have no other use but that of conveying outward the pus, which collects in the cavity, and the small bony fragments, since, as soon as every atom of dead bone has passed out they d.mimsh and, at length, are totally ob- literated. (^Weidmann, De Necrosi Ossium, [Stanley considers that these openings are formed in consequence of the destruction of portions of tlie periosteum during the course of the inflam- mation which accompanies a necrosis : at these points no deposit of bone takes place, and it is imcertain whether the apertures ever close. Ne aton vol.,. p. 617, op. cit.) agrees with Troja, that small pieces of the periosteal investment re- main adherent to the necrosed bone and perish with It, and consequently there is an absence of ossifica- tion: but he states that, when the sequeslrum is expelled, the openings are filled up by ossification ot the granulations lining the cavity and fistulous sinuses. Gerdy (op. cit. p. 229.) is of opinion that they are formed by the mechanical action of the pent-up matter, which finds its way to the Burlace, after the manner of an abscess in the soft parts, and that they close ultimately.] It IS a remarkable circumstance in the history ot necrosis that, in favourable instances of the dis- ease, the inflexibility and firmness of the limb are preserved during the whole of the process by which the new bone is formed. Consequently, the new bone must have begun to grow, and have' acquired firmness before the old bone separated or w-as absorbed. Were this not the case, the limb mus become flexible and useless, the moment the dead bone is removed. Another consequence of he new bone being formed, before the removal of the old one, is that the former must surround and include the latter. For, since the lifeless portion ot bone completely occupies the space between the two living ends, these cannot be immediately con nected by the new bony matter. The connexion 841 can alone be completed bv ih^ i , ■ deposited on the outside of tt old T ^""'^ end to the other, and attach ng itsei? t which still remain alive. Tl e 1° ^""'""^ also be necessarily larger than t :,7on\""Lc"r mh ^.^"•"/'"^"'"■'^'ed; and hence the affec ed mb, after the cure is complete, will often con i, ue larger, clumsier, and less shapely than the oE The leng h of u, however, may remain unalte ed' because the old bone retains its attachment, w i le the rudiments of the new bone are lyin^ on ts outside, and connect the living ends^of^the o'd one by an inflexible mass, equd in length to the portion which is destroyed When the loss of bone has been very extensive It IS seldom completely restored, and, ff it be "e! produced Its shape is not exactly lik^ that of the original bone : the sides are flatter; the usr.al nngles depressions, and eminences are not ob- servable, and sometimes others are formed [Occasionally the shaft of a long bone is repro- duced, equal in size and shape to th.t which it teplaces; and, in rare instances, it may even ex- ceed Its original in length. Cloquet has recorded an example of this in a girl, is'years old, where; after necrosis of the tibia, the new bone was an inch and a half longer than that of the other L 1 We see that, m the process which nature fol- lows in the formation of the new osseous shell, the the first step of the process is to surround the old bone with an eftusion of coagulating lymph. (See Russell on Necrosis, p. 2 7.) o J e • V^^c _ When the sequestrum is thrown off slowly, the .nflammation ,s moderate; but when it sepinites quickly, while the new bone is in a soft state, the detachment is generally preceded by severe inflam- matory symptoms, and followed by a temporary loss of the natural firmness of the limb. This pre^ TZ' ^.^P'^f°f the sequestrum often occ^urs uentTv fallf H ' ^""'l '^e chin conse- quently falls down on the neck. In certain cases the sequestrum separates at each end f om the iving portions of the old bone, before the new ' sseous shell has acquired firmness, so that the limb . s, as It were, broken in two places. (^Russell.) I put-uion."'™ ''''' °^ description require am-' [The length of time required for the separation of asequestruni is most uncertain: in some ca es .t proceeds with great rapidity, whilst in othe^ many years elapse without its'detachment from the living bone Stanley (p. flc. op. cit.) e aZ one instance where a portion of the feLu was still m process of exfoliation thirty-five vea after he injury which caused the necrosis;- accord nJ 0 the same author, no explanation can be offe | or the varying periods of time met with in dif erent cases. Mr. Paget considers, that he , it dead and living portions remain continuou o I long ime, it is owing to a want of vital ^r e to dctad, them; and, until the general health s im! pioved no separation takes place. (Op. cit. vol I m.) This view receives confirmation in those cases of necrosis which proceed from constitutional eauses such as syphilis: here the process of exfolia oa y take p ace very slowly, or even be enti X ancsted, until the proper remedies for the disease be administered, and the patient's health improved^ the cl.mmnt.ng action is then expedited, Ld Ihe"