OPHTHALMOSCOPE, nrrangcd ns in the original (Wheatstone's reflecting) Ktfreoscope ; and tliat the outside mirrors would admit of adjustment, not only of distance, but, also, ot inclination. An instrument of this kind was manufactured under the superintendence of Mr. Jlcisch, of the firm of Murray & Heath, Picca- dilly, and succeeded admirably in practice. It was found, however, that the mirrors, if made pf metal, would be liable to tarnish, and difficult to clean ; and if made of silvered glass, they produced confusion by reflecting from two surfaces. Even- tually it was necessary to substitute prisms for the mirrors; and by the joint labours of Mr. Laurence and Mr. Heisch, the instrument has been brought to very great excellence. The power to vary the inclination of the ocular prisms, makes this ophthalmoscope independent of the decentred lenses required for Dr. Giraud- Fenlon's. Their places may therefore be filled by any spherical oculars that special circumstances may require. The instrument consists of a horizontal metallic plate 1 centimetre wide and 10 centimetres long, with a central perforation. Behind this plate the central prisms are fixed, and the lateral ones slide in moveable settings furnished with an index and graduated scale, by which their distance apart can be read off at a glance. Their inclination is regu- lated by a screw that acts upon both of them at once. The mirror turns upon a pin on the upper part of the plate, and the instrument is completed by a moveable wooden handle. The metallic por- tions are constructed of aluminium bronze, and the total weight is thus reduced to 2 ounces and SO grains. The case, as fitted up by Messrs. Murray & Heath, contains also an object-lens and the pairs of oculars, and is made of a shape and size convenient for the pocket. I have found by careful experiments, that the binocular ophthalmoscope may be constructed for lateral as well as for vertical illumination, and that it may be fitted with the mirror and collecting- lens of Coccius's or Zehender's instrument. In this way it becomes much more convenient for the direct image. It niaj- also be fixed to a stand, and rendered available for clinical demonstration. As regards the diflTerence between Dr. Giraud- Fenhm's instrument and that of Messrs. Murray & Heath, any comparison is greatly in favour of the latter. The power to alter the inclination of the reflecting surfaces is most valuable. It gives perfect rest to the ocular muscles of the observer, which have no longer to adapt themselves to pencils of a given divergence, but receive exactly what they.require. It allows of the ready displacement of reflected images of the mirror, and thus greatly clears the field of visfon. It also allows, by the removal of the ocular prisms, amplifying lenses of higher power than these prisms to occupy their positions, and thus alfords more enlargement of the imago. The English instrument is, moreover, much less heavy tlian the French one, which weighs four ounces, and which is, therefore, less convenient both fijr the hand and the pocket. A iilo-ophthahnascopes.—TheAulo-rplithalmoscope of Cocci us.—'V)\a lirtt complete instructions for self-examination with the ophthalmoscope were given hy Professor Cocciiis, whose statements are here followed. In commencing the examination, a plcinc mirror 13 held perpendicularly before the eye, close to it, 3»7 and in such a position that the optic axis is directed to the inner edge of tlie central perforation. A waxhght should then be placed behind the mirror, in the continuation of the optic axis, so that the inner edge of the mirror, the plane, and the optic axis are all in one line ; the mirror is then in- clined at a small angle from the eye (from the temporal side), upon which an image of the flame becomes visible in the mirror, close to the actual flame itself, and deviates inwards from the latter (towards the nose) as the inclination of the mirror is increased. A slight movement, which allows the image of the flame to deviate somewhat up- wards and inwards, will then bring the reflection of the optic disc and vessels into view. In order to follow the course of the central trunks, which mostly proceed upwards and downwards, it is necessary to guide the image of the flame upon them, after having first diminished the light by the interposition of a strong concave lens, or of a diaphram with a small perforation. For complete and thorough self-examination with the ophthalmoscope of the optic nerve, retina, and choroid, it is necessary to dilate the pupil, to use a lamp for illumination, and to place a convex collecting lens behind the mirror. Coccirs employs a steel plane mirror with a sharpened cen- tral perforation, and recommends, according as the observer can bear more or less dazzling (which cannot be entirely obviated), a collecting lens of from 2" to 3" focal length. The dazzling will then not be greater than that which ia experienced in being examined by another person with an object lens of 2" for the inverted image. The best view of one's own fundus is obtained by holding, with the free hand, a convex lens of 2" or S" focal length, at from 1" to L" behind the mirror ; or a weaker lens, of from 4" to 0" focal length, close to the lamp. For self-examination of the refracting media, Coccius employs with greater success two mirrors, in the manner first proposed by Leydeler. After having dilated the pupil of the eye to be examined, a perforated plane mirror is placed before the other, and so inclined that its image of the flame is reflected by the second large plane mirror, upon the eye under examination, an illuminated image of which will then be seen in the second mirror. If it be desired to inspect the media of the left eye, the perforated mirror is therefore placed before the right eye, and so directed that its image of the flame falls upon the second mirror at a proper angle to be reflected into the left eve. As soon as this is the case, the right eye, through the opening in its mirror, will toe the illuminated image of the left eye in the second mirror. In order to test accurately the transparency of one's own crystalline lens, Coccius employs as his second mirror a concave of -i" or 5" diametcr,.and 20" or •24" focal length. The lamp is best placed laterally, in front of the eye to be examined, which must be screened from its direct light. As advantages of autoscopy, Coccius points out that the examination aft'ords proof, by allowing the red vessels to bo seen when cither no part, or only a part of the flame itself is visible, that the fibrous layer (of the retina) is insensitive to light, and that the bacillaiy layer is not a simple cat- optric apparatus; since, if it were so, the experi- ment would not succred. It .-illows, nuireover, of r>iniultancnu8 subjective and objective examination, since the light from the optic nerve and its veffcls c c 2