VENESECTION. 991 success in his first case by having made tliis de- tachment. In the treatment of an inflammation of the fascia, or of an extensive quantity of the cellular mem- brane, in consequence of venesection, general means for the cure of infliimniation should be employed. The limb should be kept quiet, and the inflamed part relaxed. As soon as the inflamma- tion abates, the extension of the forearm and fingers ought to be attempted and daily performed, to ob- viate the contraction which might otherwise ensue. Sir C. Bell objects to calling the affection an inflammation of the fascia, because he sees no proof of this part being inflamed ; and he conceives that the symptoms proceed from the inflammation spreading in the cellular membrane and passing down among the muscles and under the fascia. On this point I believe him to be quite correct, and that the disorder partakes of the character of diffuse inflammation of the cellular membrane so well described by Dr. Duncan. (See Edin. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i.) Tiie fascia acts as a bandage, and from the swelling of the parts beneath it binds the arm, but is not itself inflamed and contracted. When necessary to divide the fascia. Sir Charles Beil thinks it would be better to begin an incision near the inner condyle of the humerus, and to continue it some inches down the arm, rather than perform the nice operation of cutting the fascia at the point where the expansion goes off from the round tendon of the biceps. When the elbow-joint and forearm continue stiff after all inflammation is over, Sir C. Bell recommends frictions with camphorated mercurial ointment, &c., and the arm to be gradually brought into an extended state by placing a splint on the forepart of the limb. (^Operalive Surgery, vol i. p. 65.) 6". Ill Consequences of a Wounded Nerve.—Mr. Pott used to mention two cases in which the patients suffered distracting pains, followed by convulsions and other symptoms, which could only be ascribed to nervous irritation, arising from a partial division of the nerve, and he recommended its total division as a probable remedy. Dr. Monro related similar cases, in which such treat- ment proved successful. Plence it is highly necessary to know the charac- teristic symptoms of the case, particularly as all the foregoing cases would be exasperated by the treatment just now alluded to. It is to Mr. Abernethy that we are indebted for several valu- able remarks elucidating this subject. He infonns us that the two cutaneous nerves are those which are exposed to injury. Most frequently all their branches pass beneath the veins at the bend of the arm ; but sometimes, although the chief rami go beneath these vessels, many small filaments are detached over them, which it is impassible to avoid wounding in phlebotomy. Mr. Abernethy thinks the situation of the median nerve renders any injury of it very unlikely. If, however, a doubt should be entertained on this subject, an attention to symptoms will soon dispel it. When a nerve is irritated at any part between its origin and termination, a sensation is felt as if some injury were done to the parts which it sup- plies. If, therefore, the cutaneous nerves were injured, the integuments of the forearm would seem to suffer pain; if the median nerve, the thumb and next two fingers would be painfully aifected. The extraordinary pain sometimes experienced in bleeding may denote that a cutaneous nerve is injured. The situation of tlie nervous branches is such, that they must often be partially wounded in the operation, though they probably unite again, in almost all cases, without any ill consequences. Yet, says Mr. Abernethy, it is possible that an inflam- mation of the nerve may accidentally ensue, which would be aggravated if the nerve were kept tense, after its partial division. The disorder, he thinks, arises from inflammation of the nerve in common with the other wounded parts. This gentleman supposes that an inflamed nerve would be very likely to communicate dreadful irritation to the sensorium, and that a cure would be likely to arise from intercepting its communication with that organ. The general opinion is, that the nerve is only partially divided, and that a complete division would bring relief. Mr. Pott proposed enlarging the original orifice. It is possible, however, that the injured nerve may be under the vein, and if the nerve be inflamed, even a total division of it at the aifected part would perhaps fail in relieving the general nervous irritation, which the disease has occasioned. To intercept the communication of the inflamed nerve with the sensorium, however, promises perfect relief This object can only be accomplished by making a transverse incision above the orifice of the vein. The incision need not be large, for the injured nerve must lie within the limits of the original orifice, and it need only descend as low as the fascia of the forearm, above which all the filaments of the cutaneous nerves are situated. As the extent of the inflammation of the nerve is uncertain, Mr. Abernethy suggests even making a division of the cutaneous nerve still farther from the wound made in bleeding. Perhaps this surgeon dwells too much on inflammation of the nerve. I have seen neuralgic affections of the arm brought on by venesection, where the pain had endured for years. Surely inflammation was in such cases not concerned. Examples are recorded in which not only extraordinary pain was occasioned by the prick of the lancet, but erysipelas, ending in gangrene of the whole limb, and the death of the patient. {Riclieraml, Nosogr. Chir. t. ii. p. 490, ed 2.) A case in which the greater part of the integuments of the arm had been destroyed by erysipelas thus produced, I once saw under the care of Mr. Vincent in St. Bartholomew's Hospital. In former times it was customary to refer many of the bad symptoms occasionally following vene- section to a puncture of the tendon of the biceps; but this doctrine is now in a great measure re- nounced, the experiments of Haller having com- pletely proved that tendons and aponeuroses are comparatively speaking, parts endued with little or no sensibility. See ft. Butter's Essay concerning Blood-Iettinff, &c 8vo. Lond. 1734. M. Martin, Traits rie In Plil^botc- niie et de I'Artdriotomie, 8vo. Paris, 17-tl. Qucsnau Trnitd (les Kll'ets et (Ic rUsaRe de la Saignt'e, 12ui'o' Paris. G. Vicussenx, l)e la Saigndc, et dc sou Usaco dans la I'lupnrt des Maladies, 8vo. Paris, 1815. ,/. j Walhnum, De Venajsectioue. Gott. 1749. (Ilaller IJisp. Chir. t. v. p. 477.) B. «c«'.vSystem of Snrifery' Kssay on the 111 Consequences sometimes followiiur Venesection, by J. Ahernctlni. Ii. Carmicliml (),, Varix and Venous Inflanimatiou, in Trans, of Assoc