706 TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE, equally, but suddenly becomes very painful and enlarges rapidly for a few days; it then subsides and remains stationary for a time, but does not altogether return to the same size it possessed pre- vious to one of these attacks. The health of the patient suffers very seriously as the affection progresses; and the cachectic ap- pearance and wasting so indicative of organic disease are especially well marked. Several cases of encephaloid disease occurring in a retained testicle liave been recorded. (Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xxx. p. 9, xlii. p. 15. Polt's Chh\ Works, by Earle, 1808, vol. ii. p. 241.) Virchow and others have even stated that a testicle which has been arrested in its descent is more, liable to malignant disease than one which has reached its usual situation in the scrotum. On examining a testicle which has been removed for this affection, the normal tissue is found to be more or less deficient, and replaced by a semi-solid mass of whitish cancerous deposit, from which a creamy fluid exudes when pressed ; interspersed ■with this are patches of an oily yellowish material, resulting from fiitty degeneration of the cancer tissue. Blood is sometimes effused into this pulpy substance, constituting the appearance described as fungus hcBinalodes. When the growth has been less rapid the tumour is of firmer consistence, owing to the development of fibrous tissue, and then cysts of varying size and containing blood, or blood-stained serum, are frequently formed. In some cases large masses of cartilage will be found in the midst of these fibrous and cancerous elements. This combination of enchondroma with cancer is not unfrequent, and the cavities formed during the growth of the tumour simulate very much true cystic disease of the testicle, and led to the old opinion that there was a cystic disease of a malignant character as well as the reverse. The history of the case, the condition of the cord and lymphatic glands, the pain, the rapid progress of the disease, and the health of the patient, but, above all, the microscopic examination of the matter obtained from the tumour by puncture, must be considered in the diagnosis between these two affections.] The only prospect of cure (and this is a very poor one) must be derived from the early perform- ance of castration, before the disease has extended to the lumbar or inguinal glands, or far up the sper- matic cord. Indeed, very little hope can be placed in tlie removal of the testicle, for the disease is constitutional rather than local. Nearly every case on record has terminated fatally; and, upon dissection, either the liver, the lungs, tlie brain, the lumbar or mesenteric glands, or some other in- ternal part, have been found affected with the same disease. In one case dissected by Sir W. Lawrence, cancerous tubercles were found in the lungs, heart, and, in short, in nearly all the thoracic and abdo- minal viscera, though the contents of the skull were free from disease. (See Cases recorded by Wardrop, Earle, Laivrence, and Langstuff, in Med, Chir Trans, vol. iii. and viii.) Mr. Travers states that he has never known an instance where the disease has not recurred after castration, (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 33.5.) This is the experience of most surgeons. Sir Astley Cooper observes, tiiat of all the operations of surgery, there is srtircely any which is so generally unsuccessful as that of cas- tration for this disease; and there is no hope of the patient's life being saved, unless the operation bo performed as soon as the nature of the complaint is ascertained. {Op. cit. p. 131.) In his valuable work on the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, there is an interesting plate (viii.) representing the appearances presented in an instance where excision had been performed, but a relapse occurred. There the end of the spermatic cord is seen forming a considerable tumour ; a large swelling may be noticed in the groin ; and a very considerable mass between the left kidney, ureter, and sigmoid flexure of the colon. Notwithstanding the deceitful feel of fluctuation, dependent on the elasticity of the swelling, a well- informed surgeon will generally arrive at a correct diagnosis; but if there be doubt, puncture of the tumour with a very small trocar may be practised. " If it be a hydrocele, the serum escapes, and the tiunour disappears; but if it be fungus hsematodes, there comes out a little blood, and that is all. No harm is done by the puncture." The bleeding soon stops, and the wound heals. (Sir B. Brodie, in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xiii. p. 407.) [A few instances are recorded in which cancer- ous disease has primarily shown itself in the tunica vaginalis, the testicle remaining unaffected for a length of time. Mr. Curling has directed attention to this variety, and described it under the name of Carcinoma of tlie TunicaVagiiialis. (Op.cit. p. 355.) Sir Everard Home relates a case which occurred ia his practice. [Observations on Cancer, p. 125.)] Sir Benjamin Brodie also refers to a specimen, which was seen and described by Sir A. Cooper (op. cit. p. 207), where the glandular structure continued sound, while there was a large medullary tumour completely occupying the cavity of the tu- nica vaginalis. " However distinct the testicle may have been in the first instance, it becomes at last confounded with the disease; and there is then a tumour of an oval shape, and in this respect dif- ferent from hydrocele. It is also heavier than a hydrocele, opaque instead of being transparent, harder at some parts than others, and without the smooth regular surface of hydrocele. The softness and elasticity of the tumour, however, have often caused it to be mistaken for hydrocele, and punctured." (See Wardrop on Fungus Hce- matodes; Earle, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. p. GO.) [Scirrhus of the Testicle. Under this headmg it was formerly the practice to comprise the several diseases of the testis which are accompanied by induration. (Pott's Chir. Works, vol. ii. edit. 1808.) Dr. Baillie mentions its frequency, and describe.s the condition of parts met with in the so-called icirrhous testicle. (Morbid Anatomy, p. 352, ed. 2.) Mr. Travers, however, declares himself "in- credulous as to the fact of the scirrhous cancer alfecting the testis " (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii, p. 327); and Sir A. Cooper remarks, "I much doubt the existence of this disease in the same form and appearance as it assumes in the breast. (Op. cit. p. 150.) Althounh this variety of cancer is exceediuglv rare in the testicle, yet undoubted specimens have been met with. The disease is distinguished by its slow growth, irregular shape, and the excessive hardness of the organ, accom- panied by occasional severe pain darting up towards the loins. The spermatic cord becomes enlarged and hardened, and the glands when involved ac-