1002 VIS choroidoretinitis, loss of transparency, followed by local pigmentation and atrophy. Ill those cases more peripheral parts of the retina sometimes arrive at a degree of acuteness wliich is not possessed by equally exceutric parts of the healthy retina. Another form of central scotoma is the one caused by cerebral or extra-ocular changes in which the ophthalmoscopic examination is often negative, and the boundary of the impaired portions of retina very irregular. The arrest of the func- tion of a certain number of optic nerve-fibres, e.g., from cerebral changes, give rise to impairment of the function of the retina, to which those fibres belong, and to a scotoma which lies opposite the impaired part of the retina, while the rest of the retina remains normal. But if a portion of the retina and of the entire adjoining layer of optic nerve-fibres is destroyed through intra-ocvdar changes, then the function of the more excentric part of the retina is abolished, as far as the nerve fibres are concerned, which have to pass from other parts through the destroj'ed portion. The following mode of ascertaining the extent of small central scotomata, the fellow eye being health}-, has been proposed :—The patient is directed to look with both eyes at a white spot on black dull paper. To healthy eyes the white spot, viewed through a blue-tinted glass, held before one, and through a yellow-tinted glass held before the fellow ej'e, appears of a dirty green colour ; while if the region of the yellow spot of e.g. the left eye is impaired, the healthy right eye looking through the yellow, and the left through the blue- tinted glass, at a piece of white chalk held at the side of the white spot, the spot and piece of chalk appear yellow. Now, on moving the piece of chalk along the black paper away from the white spot (both eyes fixed on the latter), the chalk appears of a dirty green colour the moment a point is reached where both retinaj participate in the act of vision. The shape of the impaired portion of retina can be found by ascertaining a certain num- ber of these points. 2. An amblyopic or amaurotic portion, i.e. a scotoma, adjoining the optic disc, and most fre- quently the portion next the yellow spot. En- largement of the blind spot." Small blind or impaired portions of the retina adjoining the optic disc are generally not noticed by the patient. Large ones, if encroaching upon the region of the yellow spot, betray themselves in consequence of portions of an object situatrtd out- wards from the paint of the object directly looked at appearing indistinct or missing. The impaired portion is rarely irregular, generally transversely' oval. Atrophic changes commencing at the cho- roido-retinal aperture, and following inflammation or simple distension, as in extreme myopia, are the usual cause. If recent and appearing rapidly, they for a time impair ("'dazzle") vision of the fellow eye. 3. Amblyopia or amaurosis of other parts of the retina; excentric scotomata; excentric inter- ruptions of the Held of vision. It' excentric portions are not destroyed, but only rnore or loss impaired, they appear ns difterently- shaped grey, black, or coloured spots, either entirely obscuring portions of an object, or causing them to appear indistinct, mistj', or distorted, or smaller or larger. Small impaired spots are often overlooked. especially if co;ifined to one eye, and are best per- ceived if the other eye is closed. They are gene- rally the result of choroido-retinitis. 4. Amblyopia or amaurosis progressing from the periphery (margin) of the retina towards the yellow spot; contraction or limitation of the field of vision. The impairment of vision—(1) May be confined to one half of the retina (" heraiopic limitation"). (2) It maj- advance to an equal extent from all points of the periphery of the retina towards the yellow spot (" concentric limitation"), as fre- quently occurs in both eyes of the same patient, a zone of amblyopic retina joining the amaurotic one. (3) It may advance more rapidly from one side ("irregular limitation"). Of this latter, difi^erent varieties occur, e.g., it may progress more rapidly from the outer margin of the retina, as in cupping of the optic disc ; or more rapidly from above and below, as in ansemia and atrophy of the optic disc; or irregularly from all sides, as in the different forms of choroido- retinitis. The "amaurotic" portions of the retina may join healthy portions, but more frequently' they are contiguous with "amblyopic" ones. Cerebral changes affecting vision lead simul- taneously to eccentric limitation and to impairment of direct vision; not so morbid changes in the retina. The prognosis is better if, from impeded inner- vation or from non-use, direct vision is much im- paired while the excentric parts of the retina re- main sensitive throughout, than if direct vision is good, but the excentric parts are much or irregu- larly impaired. 5. Hemiopia; half vision. The right half of the retina of the right and of the left eye (the outer or temporal half of the right and the inner or nasal half of the left retina) are supplied by the right optic nerve tract, and the left half (the outer half of the left and the inner half of the right re- tina) by the left optic nerve tract. The right and left optic nerve tracts meet at the chiasma. The fibres of the outer half of each tract go, those of the right tract to the optic nerve of the right eye, and thence to the outer half of the retina of the right eye, those of the left tract to the optic nerve of the left eye, and thence to the outer half of the retina of the k'ft eye ; while the fibres of the inner half of each tract cross each other at the- chiasma, those of the right tract crossing over to liecoine the inner half of the left optic nerve, and to go to the inner h:df of the left retina, those of the left to become the inner half of the right optic nerve, and to go to the inner half of the right retina. Non-crossing of the tracts of the optic nerves, or absence of the chiasma, with and without im- [)airment of vision, have been observed by several anatomists. There occur in the chiasma also libres, which go from eye to eye, and others which pass from one side of the bra n to the other. The varieties of hemiopia are in order of fre- quency—(1) Loss of vision of the outer half of the right and of the inner half of the left retinfW from paralvsis of the right optic nerve tract, and loss of vision of the outer half of the left and ot the inner half of the right retina, from paralysis of the left optic nerve tract. The line of demar- cation between the sensitive and blind part of "'^