caused by distension of an obstructed lactiferous duct or sinus, and this cavity is either completely closed, or is in communication vvith some of the lactiferous tubes more or less dilated. If the com- plaint is of short standing, the contents are usually milk ; otherwise it may contain a quantity of epi- thelial cells. The adjacent glandular structure is either somewhat condensed or wasted. The second form of this kind of swelling de- pends on rupture of one or more lactiferous tubes, whereby the milk elTused into the cellular tissue accumulates in larger or smaller cavities, becomes gradually inspissated, and in general induces sup- purative inflammation of the adjoining glandular structure. The first form is usually unpainful, comes on during or soon after lactation, may attain the size of the list, is attended with fluctuation, but is very different from an abscess, and should never be con- founded with it. To avoid error in diagnosis a tine trocar may be introduced, through thetube of which a liquid will be evacuated possessing the characters of milk. The second form supervenes after sudden inter- ruption to the flow of milk, accompanied with vio- lent pain and fever. There speedily forms in some part of the breast a circumscribed,uneven, nodulated swelling; the overlying integument becomes tense, and of a dark red colour, and in a few days shows several fluctuating points, which when opened emit milky fluid. There presently follows suppuration of the glandular texture, ulceration frequently takes place, and milk and pus are discharged together through one or more apertures. The result is, when the infant sucks, the nutritious food is either lost, or else deteriorated in quantity by admixture with pus.] The following treatment was advised by Sir A. Cooper :—If the chdd can be weaned, a simple puncture will suffice; but if suckling be continued a larger opening must be made, and the milk suf- fered to escape through it whilst the infant is sucking. Relief may thus be obtained, until the child is weaned, and the secretion of milk has been stopped by means of laxatives, such as the combination of sulphate and carbonate of mag- nesia. {Illustrations of Bis. of the Breast, p. 16.) It will sometimes be e.xpedient, alter'the incision has been made, to apply a suitable compres- sive bandage, and to inject the cavity daily, first with tepid water, and subsequently with solutions of nitrate of silver, or of alum, or with diluted tinc- ture of iodine. Otherwise the suppuration, if al- lowed to persist, will necessarily weaken the patient. [Scarpa has recorded a curious example of lacteal tumor, where not less than ten pounds of pure milk were at once evacuated. A countrywoman, 20 years of age, of small stature, of robust consti- tution, and in whom the breasts were naturally large, observed, ten days after a second confine- ment, a swelling in the left axillary region. This gradually spread to the breast, which, in less than two months, enlarged till it had acquired a circuin- Jercnceof tliirty-fnir inches; and when the woman was seated, the mamma was so clonirated that ii rested upon the left thigh. By puiicturiiig the axilla with a trocar, vent was given to the above mentioned quantity of milk. The patient cventu- &rr?3:)j^'''"''' ^"'«-'» The morbid dilatation of a lactiferous tube is obaorved by Dr. Cumin to approach sonK-wh'u MAMMA, DISEASES OF. • 8f§ to the natural structure of the mamma of one species of goat, of which there is a preparation in Dr. William Hunter's Museum. In this animal the nipple forms but one large tube about the size of the finger, and an inch and a halt in length. This tube enlarges into a bag, capable of contain- ing an orange; and on the sides of the bag a great many short thick tubes open. (See Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journ., vol. xxvii. p. 226.) [Ci/stsof the Breastocmv ihdependeiitly, or are associated with tumors both benign and malig- nant. The cysts are developed—1, in the cellular tissue which surrounds the mamma ; 2, between the lobules ; 3, in the parenchyma of the gland ; 4, in the acini obliterated at their orifice ; 5, in the dilatation of a lactiferous duct; 6, lastly, be- tween the mamma and thorax ( Velpeau). The cysts are unilocular or multilocular ; the liquid which they contain is sometimes serous and limpid (serous cysts), sometimes reddish or brown (sero sanguinolent cysts), sumetimes glairy or mucous (sero-mucous cysts). Occasionally fat, sebaceous matter, or even hair, has been found within maramaiy cysts. The cysts form vacuities in the connective stroma of the glandular tissue. The serous cysts are lined with a fibrinous layer ; the sero-san- guinolent have smooth walls. In a case of the latter description, a ha;matic cyst, occurring in a patient in St. Mary's Hospital, the cyst-wall was thin, of a brownish-red hue, like the inner lining of the heart, seemingly about the size of a walnut. The cyst membrane was smooth, and consisted of two parts ; an inner thin lining of an amorphous and granular character, showing no appearance of cell- tormat.on, and closely resembling the membrane'of a hydatid cyst. It did not, however, present a se- ries of lamiuffi as that does. The bulk of the cyst-wall consisted of fusiform fibre-cells, the whole inter- speraed with oily matter. In a case observed by M. Velpeau,^the walls of the cyst were converted nito a very flexible calcareous lamina, intimately adherent to the tissues. The multilocular cysts are constituted by pouches, which do not communicate one with an- other, and are separated by particions of variable thickness. They arise from difi'erent parts of the breast; when of rapid growth, and of considerable size, they induce interstitial absorption of the glan- dular substance, so that scarcely a trace remains The tissues which surround the cysts are dense' as If compressed by the progressive development' Ihe skill IS seldom discoloured till the growth has attained some size. Their origin has been sometimes traced to ex- ternal violence, and extravasation of blood. It iias also been referred to catamenial disorder but in nine cases observed by Scanzoni {op. cit. p. 556'), the women menstruated regularly, and v.'ere unable to assign any cause for the adventitious for- mation. They occur, though rarely, in the male breast. For example, a case of cystic tumor of the right breast of a man aged Gl years, as large as an orange, is reported in the Lancet for 1061. The skill over it was slightly discoloured. The growth was of nine years' standing. It was re- moved by Mr. Gowllaiul,at the London Hospital and the patient recovered. ' The patients, in general, perceive at the outset a small, hard movable, painless swelling. This