LITHOTOMY. 213 prostate gland to the longitudinal axis of the neck of the urethra. (Sei; Scai-pa's Memoir on Hatv- kiiis's Gorget, trans, by Briggs, p. 1"2, 17.) For nearly thirty years the instrument makers in London have been in the habit of selling a gor- get which Mr. Abernethy invented, and which, in the particularity of its cutting edge turning up at an angle of 43°, bears much analogy to the in- strument reconnnended by Scarpa. The cutting edge is straigiit, and that useless and dangerous part of a gorget sometimes called the shoulder, is removed. Admitting that the principles of the lateral operation, as inculcated by Scarpa, are cor- rect, it appears to me that Abernethy's gprget is preferable to that proposed by Scarpa. Its edge is not so immoderately turned up, and it will enter with more ease and less risk of slipping from the staff because it lias not any projecting shoulder, which, while the staff is firmly held with the beak of the gorget in it, can have no other effect but that of obstructing the passage of the last instru- ment. Gorgets which cut on both sides have also been sometimes employed in England ; and as a larger opening can be obtained by them, even without trespassing the limits of the incision fixed by Scarpa, that ia to say, without cutting any part of the body of the bladder, they appear to promise utility, especially when the stone is suspected to be large. However, they are less used now than they were some years ago, when Sir Astley Cooper employed them in Guy's hospital. The preference more commonly given to the knife will account for the fact. Before the operation, the following instruments should all be arranged ready on a table. A staff' of as large a diameter as will easily admit of introduc- tion, and the groove of which is very deep and closed at the extremity ; a sharp gorget, with a beak nicely and accurately adapted to the deep groove of the preceding instrument, so as to glide easily and securely ; a large scalpel for making tlie first incisions ; forceps of various sizes and forms for extracting the stone ; a blunt-pointed curved bistoury for enlarging the wound in the prostate if the incision of the gorget be not sufficiently large, as I believe the parts should never be lacer- ated ; a pair of Le Cat's forceps, with teeth for breaking the stone, if too large to come through any wound reasonably dilated ; a syringe for washing out clots of blood or particles of the stone, a practice, however, not considered necessary by Sir Astley Cooper ; a scoop, for the removal of small calculi or fragments ; two strong garters or bands witli which the patient's hands and feet are tied together. The curvature of the staff is a matter of con- siderable importance, because the direction of the incision through the prostate gland and neck of the bladder is partly determined by it. The French surgeons, convinced of the advantage of introduc- ing the gorget in the direction of the axis of the bladder, always use a staff which is more curved than what English surgeons employ. (See At. lioitx. Voyage fait a Londrcs en l!iM,o/j ParallUc (le la Chir. Anrjloisn, &c., p. ;J19.) But I am in- clined to believe, with Scarpa, that upon the whole it is best to let the curvature of the stall'corresjjond exactly to that of the axis of the neck of tlie urethra and prostate gland. (Opuscididi O/iinirma, vol. i. p. ,80.) ' The staff is " of the figure of a sound," from which, however, it differs, first, in the handle, which, instead of being smooth and polished, is made rough, in order that it may be more firmly and steadily held ; secondlj"-, in having a groove like that of a director on its convex side. It is, in fact, a director, and intended to answer pre- cisely the same purpose." A staff should be as large as the urethra will admit without being pain- fully stretched. A large staff is more easily felt in the perineum than a small one, and it allows a wider and deeper groove to be constructed in it. Sir C. Bell, Mr. Listen, and some others, prefer a deep groove placed between the lateral and convex aspects. The end of the staff ought to be neatly rounded off, as well as the edges of the groove. (&■?• B. Brodie on Dis. of the Urinary Organs, p. 269.) After the staff has been introduced and the stone felt with it to be in the bladder, the next thing is to secure the patient in the most desirable position. He should- be placed on the operating table lying on his back, supported by pillows, with his shoulders somewhat elevated. He should be directed to grasp the outside of each foot with the hand of the same side, and then the hand and foot are to be bound together by several turns of the lithotomy garters, a noose being first made for the reception of the wrist. The patient is then drawn towards the end of the table, with the buttocks projecting rather beyond it. An assistant is re- quired to stand on each side of the patient in order to hold his feet, hands, and knees, and to keep the limbs well apart. A third assistant is necessary to hand the instruments to the surgeon as soon as wanted, and a fourth to hold the handle of the staff". It is also convenient to have a fifth assistant to support the patient's shoulders. The assistant who holds the staff usually stands on the patient's left side, in order that he may take the handle of the instrument in his right hand. {Sir B. Brodie, Op. cil. p. 271.) The assistant, holding up the scrotum with his left band, is with his right to hold the staff", inclin- ing its handle towards the right groin, eo as to make the grooved convexity of the instrument turn towards the left side of the perineum. Some ope- rators also like the assistant to depress the handle of the staff towards the patient's abdomen, in order to make its convexity project in the perineum, while others condemn this plan, fearing that it may withdraw the instrument from the bladder. {Al- lan, &c.) Scarpa disapproves of inclining the handle of the staff towards the patient's right groin, and he expressly recommends this instrument to be held lirn)ly against the arch of the pubes (also Listou, Practical Suryery, p. 410) in a lino perpendicu- lar to the body of the patient, so that the convex part of the director may be placed towards the rectum, and take the exact course of the axis of the urethra and prostate gland. {Opusculi, &c., p. 40.) This position of the staff" appears to Scarpa the firmest and most connnodious, and ho maintains that on such stability of the instiument the safety and precision of the lateral operation de- pend. It is observed, however, by Mr. Stanley, that the pressure of the curved part of the staff upwards is objectionable, as it may lead to tho in- cisions being made in the narrower part of the space beneath tho arch of the pnbes, " To the pressure of the staff downwards (says he) the