RECTO-VAGK frucal matters descend into tho rectum, they distend this pouch, and the muscular fibres, being weakened Ijy the dilatation, are unable to expel them; while the abdominal muscles, when called upon to assist, expend tlu^ii- force upmi the pnucli, which they lend still further to dilate. A rectocele is almost invariably of gradual formation. Malgaigne, how- ever, mentions two instances in which it was sud- denly produced, in one case by a fall, and in the other by lifting a heavy weight. Both these patients were far advanced in pregnancy. On examination of the parts, protrusion of the posterior wall of the vagina is observed; and when the patient strains, the protrusion is increased in size. The finger, when introduced into the rectum, can readily be turned forwards into the swelling, thus showing that the rectum, as well as the va- gina, is involved; while b)' passing the finger into the vagina in front of the swelling, the uterus is felt to be in its natural position or nearly so. This affection causes great discomfort to the patient. There is a feeling of weakness and of bearing down in the perinaeal region, with obstinate constipation and great difficulty in evacuating the rectum. Often this cannot be effected until pres- sure has been made upon the tumor from the vagina to squeeze the contents out of it—until, in fact, the deficient contractile power of the rectum ' has been artificially supplied and properly directed towards the natural outlet. It has been already stated that partial rupture of the perinfBum predisposes to this affection. It is otherwise, however, when the rupture is com- plete and extends through the sphincter. In the latter case there is incontinence instead of consti- pation, for when the faeces pass into the rectum there is nothing to prevent their escape, and dila- tation, therefore, can hardly occur. Mr. Bryant, however, has recorded a case in which both con- ditions were present in the same person. (See Gull's Hosp. Reports, 1865, p. 276.) It is necessary to remark that prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina may occasionally pro- ceed from other causes than that now under con- bideration. A vaginal hernia, for instance, in which the intestine descends between the vagina and rectum, pushing before it the recto-vaginal fold of peritoneum, might cause a tumor similar in ex- ternal appearance. ■ Sir Charles Clarke mentions a case in which protrusion of the vagina was caused by the descent of cysts connected with diseased ovaries. It might also possibly be dependent upon an abscess in the recto-vaginal septum. The na- ture of the case, however, is at once made clear by examination of the interior of the rectum, the cavity (if which will be more or less encroached upon in any of the cases just mentioned; whereas in recto- cele it will be dilated, and the finger can be passed forward into the swelling. Treatment.—It is only within the last few years that any effectual remedy has been devised for this complaint. The measures formerly adopted were palliative only. Sir C. Clarke recommended the use of astringent injections, and in severe cases a globular pessary to be worn in the vagina. Mal- gaigne relates cases in which attempts wore made to diminish the calibre of the vagina by dissecting away portions of tho mucous membrane covering the swelliiig, and uniting the edges of the incision by suture; but the result was not encouraging, and he therefore was content with a pessary to retain JAL FISTULA. 511 the swelling in its place. What is wanted is the restoration of that support to the pelvic floor, the loss of which is the essential cause of the com- plaint, and the only way in which this can be el- feoted is by closure of the ruptured or relaxed peri- nniimi to a sufficient extent to retain the protrusion. For this purpose the operation for rupture of the perinaoum has been now frequently applied with very satisfactory results: in the first instance, we believe, by Mr. Baker Brown. The operation required is essentially the same as that for rupture of the perinajum, and its details will be described in tlie article on that condition, to which the reader is referred. If it is properly performed, a thick ' and firm perinaeumis obtained,capable of elTectuallj' retaining the protrusion, and the result will be a complete cure of the complaint. The sensation of weakness and bearing down is no longer felt, and the constipation, so far as it depends upon the mechanical difficulty in emptying the rectum, is relieved. It may be objected that the restoration of the perinffium does not cure the dilatation of the rectum and vagina but merely prevents their pro- trusion externally. It will be found, however, that when these parts are retained in their proper place they gradually return to their proper dimensions. It must be remembered that the dilatation is not the essence of the complaint, but only takes place from mechanical reasons, in consequence of the loss of support in the pelvic floor. When that support is supplied, the dilatation by degrees disappears, or at any rate is so much lessened as to be of no prac- tical inconvenience. The writer having operated in niunerous cases in the manner suggested can speak from personal experience of the perfectly satisfactory residts obtained. (See Lancet, Feb. 3, 1866, p. 117.)] James R. Lane. [RECTO-VAGINAL FISTULA. A recto, vaginal fistula is an abnormal communication be- tween the vagina and rectum. It is most fre- quently caused by sloughing of the recto-vaginal septum from long-continued pressure of the foetal head during labour, or from laceration of that part by the unskilful use of instruments. It may also arise from abscess, bursting on one side into the vagina and on the other into the rectum, from venereal ulceration, ulceration accorapan3'ing stric- ture of the rectum, or cancerous disease. When the aperture is small the inconvenience ma}' not be great, and may be confined to the occasional escape of flatus, or of frecal matters wlien the bowels are relaxed. But when the aperture is larger, more or less of the fajces will always escape from the rectum into the vagina, and the condition of the patient is most distressing, though the an- noyance is perhaps loss constant than in the case of a mwo-vaginal communication. When the aperture is small its closure may sometimes be effected by cauterisation with the actual cautery, or with some powerful caustic as nitric acid or the potassa fusa. But when it is of any magnitude, the only chance of closing it is by a plastic operation. The edges of the aperture shoidd bo carefully denuded, and the cut surfaces brought into accurate contact with metallic sutures. The mode of doing this will be described in detail in the article on vesico-vaginal fistula, it is there- fore nnni.'cesBary to enter upon it here. After the operation, the bowels should bo confined by opium for eight or ton days, when an aperient