ISEASES OF. 531 hectum, e SI M 2 smeared with cerate, and passed into the bowel by means of a probe with a forked end. Their size was gradually increased, so as to keep up the com- pression, to which, it was conceived, all the good was owing. Their length was also augmented by degrees. At first, fresh ones were introduced twice a-day. Wlien any hardnesses were situated on the outside of the anus, Desault cured them on the same principle, viz. by making pressure on them with compresses and a bandage. Instead of tents, modern surgeons employ bou- gies for the dilatation of strictures in the rectum. When, from habitual costiveness, the altered figure of the stools, and other circumstances, tliere is rea- son to suspect organic obstruction to the passage of the faices, and this suspicion is confirmed by an examination of the rectum with the finger, " the first object of the surgeon (says Mr, Copeland) should be an enlargement of the obstructed part, by the introduction of a bougie. This should be of such a size, as to pass, when well lubricated •with oil, without much difficulty or pain. Some- times, when the disease has been of long continu- ance, it will be necessary to begin even with a large-sized urethra bougie, or one of the same size as those which are made for a stricture of the oeso- phagus, and of a length that is likely to pass be- yond the end of the stricture, that is, about six, or seven, or eight inches. But, I think it of con- sequence to use a bougie at first, which is rather too small, than too large." (P. 29.) When it has remained for half an hour, or more, it is to be removed, and passed again the next day, the same sized l)ougie being continued for several days. In the introduction of the bougie, Mr. Copeland cau- tions the practitioner not to mistake the projection of the sacrum for a stricture of the gut ; a mistake which, he says, has often been made, and, as I believe, too often wilfull}', and from motives of imposition. Mr. Syme relates a case in which some respect- able practitioners were deceived. " In the feeble and unhealthy persons, who are usually suspected to labour under the disease, the coats of the rectum are so thin and relaxed, as readily to catch the point of the bougie employed for exploring the cavity, and thus impede its progress, which is also apt to be arrested by the promontory of the sa- crum." The case of an elderly lady is then de- tailed, in which two medical gentlemen had spent three hundred hours in endeavours to dilate a supposed stricture with bougies. The patient died, and in the post-mortem examination not the slightest trace of contraction could be disco- vered. A bougie was introduced by one of these gentlemen in the accustomed way, and on arriving at the depth it used to reach, its point was ascer- tained to be stopped by the promontory of the sa- crum. (See Syme, On Dis. of the Rectum, p. 112.) Pressure on the rectum by the retroverted uterus (C. Bell), an enlarged ovarium, or other tumor, may also lead an inattentive surgeon to mistake the case for a stricture. Mr. Calvert has seen the bougie employed a long while in one example, where the real disorder arose from a biliary con- cretion imbedded in the parietes of the rectum. (On Hemorrhoids and other Diseases of the Rectum, p. 107.) This gentleman conceives, that an ivory ball, affixed to the end of a silver wire, is a good instrument for ascertaining the exact situation and extent of strictures of the rectum. (P. 169.) AVhen the stricture is just above the sphincter, some information of the state of the parts, he says, may be gained by employing the speculum ani ; but, he adds, that whenever there is organic stricture near the anus, this instrument should be used with caution, as any sudden dis- tension of the parts is always injurious. (P. 170.) Mr. Copeland advises the bowels to be kept con- stantly lax, by the use of castor oil, or electuary of senna, during the whole of the treatment. (P. 30.) The plan of gradual dilatation is to be per- sisted in until a full-sized bougie will readily pass, and even after all symptoms have disap- peared, it is recommended to introduce the bougie, and withdraw it again, once every two or three days, for some time, in order to prevent a relapse. The indurated, annular stricture, which long re- sists the bougie, Mr. Copeland sometimes divides with a probe-pointed curved bistoury on the side which is contiguous to the os sacrum ; and he has frequently seen the late Mr. Ford perform the same operation. (P. 34.) This practice, which originated with Wiseman, has also been followed by others with success. (See Jameson's Case in American Recorder, April, 1822.) When the dis- ease is either combined with venereal s3'inptoms, or there is any reason for suspecting it to be itself " the solitary symptom " of lues, Mr. Copeland joins Desault in recommending a trial of the effect of mercury, in conjunction with bougies. (P. 4-1.) The formation of abscesses, he remarks, is very frequent in the advanced stages of the disease, and he has often seen the common operation for fistula done under such circumstances without success. (P. 35.) Sir Benjamin Brodie also joins in repre- senting the inutility, and even the mischief of laj'- ing open abscesses formed under these circum- stances ; for they will not heal till the stricture has been removed. Besides tents and bougies, which latter Mr. Calvert thinks may be sometimes usefully made the vehicle of local applications, or be what is called medicated, this gentleman enumerates amongst the plans of dilating the stricture a prepared gut, in- troduced beyond the stricture, and then distended with water; in other words, Mr. Arnot's dilator. This method, he thinks, may be adopted where the bougie causes great irritation. (P. 173.) If the stricture be not in a very irritable and tender state, Sir Benjamin Brodie is of opinion, that the patient may at once derive benefit from mechanical dilatation by the use of a bougie. The diameter of the stricture is to be ascertained, as nearly as possible, with the finger, and a bougie of proper size introduced through its orifice. He recommends the bougie to be kept in the stricture five or ten minutes, or in some cases, for a longer time; and the operation must be repeated every day, according to circumstances. In this manner, though the gut may not be restored to its full diameter, the stricture will be so much dilated, that the fa;ces will readily pass, and the patient sufTer little inconvenience. Here, as in cases of stricture in the urethra, the use of the bougie must be con- tinued. If it be neglected, the stricture will re- turn. In some cases, where the stricture is situated about two inches above the anus, and occupies only a small portion of the length of the gut, fortning a circular band, which embraces the finger. Sir Benjamin Brodie precedes the use of bougies by dividing the stricture in two or three places with