1 deep, if the resolution or strength of the patient fail at the moment of their infliction. But even slight wounds, if improperly managed, may be fol- lowed by very disastrous results. The position, depth, and extent of these wounds will of course vary greatly, according to the nature of the weapon used, the mode of its employment, and the position of the head at the time of its application. Only the superficial parts may be divided, or the larynx and oesophagus may be fairly cut through, and it is a remarkable fact that this last terrible injury may be inflicted without the carotids being cut, as has been evidenced in several cases. This is in a great measure to be explained by the fact that suicides generally throw the head back and the neck forward, thus putting the vessels out of the way, while they cut high in the neck; but even low down the trachea has been fairly divided, and the oesophagus opened, without the carotids suffering. Occasionally we have to deal with many wounds in the throat of suicides, and it is in such cases that we are apt to have partial or complete detach- ment of the cartilages, the resistance of which to the knife frequently limits the depth of such wounds. Transverse wounds of the windpipe are apt to gape much from the action on the lips of the wound of the muscles which pass from the hyoid bone and jaw to the sternum, and which are here divided. This gaping is not so marked in wounds of the upper part of the throat, but the edges of wounds situated in that region have a great ten- dency to turn inwards, so that the surgeon has much difficulty in keeping them in accurate ap- position. Even supeiflcial wounds of the neck may, ac- cording to the experience of Dieffenbach, prove fatal, by setting up diffuse inflammation, and the passage of purulent matter into the anterior mediastinum. Even in those cases in which the great vessels escape, considerable and even fatal hsemorrhage may I attend incised wounds of the throat. In wounds I placed high in the neck, the lingual artery may be cut, and lower down the thyroid vessels may yield much blood. The blood if not prevented may trickle into the air passages, and though the danger of such an occurrence has been much exaggerated, yet if the patient is weak so that he cannot reject the fluid by coughing, as a strong person can and does, it may fill up the air tubes and cause suffo- i ;ition. In proportion to the size of the opening into the windpipe, will the escape be of air from the tube. When the wound is small, and the I irallelism between the opening in the windpipe i'lid that in the soft parts is lost, extensive em- physema may result. A want of due sensibility in tiie glottis may result from such wounds as are now under review, and as a consequence of this the tood escapes into the larynx, even although there bo no wound of the cesophagus. This diminished sensibility is only another evidence of that general lowenng of the vitality of the part which occurs after the infliction of the injury, and >vhich results from the general weakness which so often follows these wounds. The effects produced by wounds of the larynx will depend greatly on their position, depth, extent "id direction. When placed high up in the hyo- "lyroid space, the pharynx is opened, the epiglottis J probably partially or wholly detached, and the LARYNX, WOUNDS OF. 189 vocal cords wounded or divided. In such cases there will be embarrassed deglutition, the escape of alimentary matters by the wound, the voice sup pressed, and finally there may be great annoyance or even fatal effects from the falling down of the epi- glottis. In consequence of the profuse escape of the saliva, there is usually great thirst. Occa- sionally the patient has been placed in imminent danger, and in a few cases even death has resulted froni detached portions of mucous membrane or cartilage closing the aperture of the windpipe. Wounds placed high in the neck are liable to be followed by inflammation and sub-mucous infiltra- tion, so that the swelled glottis may cause suffoca- tion. This, however, is manifestly an after-result. The treatment of wounds of the throat demands first, the suppression of hamorrhage. This can be usually accomplished by the use of the ligature and pressure. Mr. Erichsen recommends in cases of general venous oozing, which these means fail to command, to introduce a large silver tube into the aperture in the windpipe, and then to plug the wound round this tube. This is to be retained till the bleeding has ceased. In all cases we must place the patient in an equable temperature (as near 80° Fah. as possible) and cover the wound up with a piece of muslin, or, as Listen recommends, a woollen muffler to act as a respirator, and guard against pulmonary inflammation which in such cases is so aptto arise and prove fatal. Keep the head and shoulders high, and the former somewhat, but not toofar, bent forwards by means of bands attached to the night-cap and a waist belt. No attempt is to be made to close the wound till all oozing has ceased. If this precaution is neglected, and blood gain admission into the bronchial tubes, the patient being weak and unable to reject it, slow suffocation maybe produced. If the blood has accumulated to a dangerous extent in the air- tubes, it may be removed by suction, as Roux first practised. All oozing having ceased, and the lips of the wound becoming glazed, the wound may be closed to some extent by introducing a wire suture or two at either extremity and leaving the centre portion open in the first instance for the escape of blood and mucus, and afterwards closing this part also by secondary adhesion. The centre portion thus left open, must be carefully kept clean by an attendant. In superficial wounds, adhesive plaster will probably afford all the support required but in deep wounds it is not sufiicient. Early adhesion IS very rarely obtained in wounds of the throat from the constant movements of the part, and the excape of fluid by the wound ; while diffuse inflam- mation and emphysema, as well as the imprison- ment of secretions, are apt to follow this premature closure. In some cases, it is desirable to pass the sutures through the contiguous cartilages, in order to secure a good hold, and in all cases much care is required to prevent the turning inwards or the overlapping of the edges of the wound during cicatrisation. If the epiglottis is nearly detached and cannot be kept in place, it must be removed, however grave its want may be considered. If emphysema occur, and embarrass the breathing, it must be got rid of by punctures or small incisions. If the pa- tient has himself inflicted the wound, he must be ciirefully watched to prevent his interfering with the dressings. Inflammation must be guarded against, and treated if it arise; but from the loss i