NEURALGIA. 354 gland, undertaken, and even a portion of the soft parts cut away, but without any favourable con- sec^uences. (P. 218.) When the infra-orbital nerve is to be divided, Sir A. Cooper recommends it to be done a quarter of an inch below the orbit. The supra-orbital nerve should be cut through just where it passes out of the supra-orbital foramen. An instance, in which this measure produced an immediate alteration in the seat of the pain, may be read in the 8th No. of the Quarterly Journal of Foreign Medicine; but the cure was not complete till the together with sticking-plaister, and it united by adhesioii ; but the upper part of the wound, op- posite to the upper end of the nerves, became slightly inflamed, and was very painful. However, in the course of three weeks, the appearance of in- flammation gradually went off. After the opera- tion, Mr. Abernethy pinched the originally affected integuments sharply with his nails, without causing any sensation ; but if in so doing he moved the finger, then pain was felt. The result was, that nine months afteir the operation, the general pains in the nerves had be- integuments had been divided from the root of the come very trivial ; but the sensation in the iutegu nose" to the ter)iple. The method of dividing the inferior maxillary nerve, advised by the same surgeon, is to cut down to the foramen mentale on the inside of the lip, directly under the bicuspid tooth. By the division of this nerve, ]V[. Bouillard effectually cured one very severe case. (See Lond. Med. Repository, No. Ixxix.) I have already stated that the nerves of the extremities are subject to affections very analo- gous to tic douloureux. The following instance; related by Mr. Abernethy, will be found interest- ing :— , . , • A lady became gradually aftected with a paiU' ments at the end of the finger had gradually increased, and the skin had now its natural sensi- bility, so as accurately to distinguish the tangible properties of any body applied to it. If also the originally affected part was slightly compressed, painful sensations, resembling those which formerly occurred, took place. {Ahernethy^s Surgical Works, vol. ii. p. 203.) In a case resembling the former, but the consequence of a wound of the finger, Mr. Lawrence also cut down to the nerve, and removed a portion of it, with permanent success. In a case of severe pain in the thumb, extending up the arm to the neck, and causing a distortion of the neck, ful state'of the integuments, under and adjoining fits, &c., Sir A. Cooper cut do>vn upon the radial to the inner edge of the nail of the ring-finger of nerve, by the side of the flexor carpi vadiahs, the left hand. No injury to the part was remem- and cut out about five-eighths of an mch of it. bered which could have brought on this disease. The result was a complete cure. _ The pain occurred at irregular intervals, and was Dr. Mott has adopted the practice of dividing extremely severe during the time of its continuance, the nerve in almost every case of neuralgia, where which was for a day or two, when it usually abated, it is practicable. He has repeated this operation Accidental sliaht injuries always produced great | on the infra-orbital, mental, and other nerves so frequently, and with so great success, that he con- fidently recommends it. He sometimes insulates Accidental slight injuries always produced great pain, and frequently brought on the paroxysms, which, however, occasionally occurred sponta- neously, or without any evident exciting cause— in all these particulars the disease correctly re sembling tic douloureux. As the pain increased the disorder seemed to extend up the nerves of the a portion of the nerve by repeated incisions through it, at small distances from each other, preferring this to a removal of a portion of the nerve. If these plans fail, Dr. Reese believes that tlie ap- After the patient'had endured this painful plication of potassa fusa, or lapis infernalis, in for seven years, she submitted to have almost always prove a remedy. (See Amer. Jud. arm. affliction the skin, which was the original seat of the dis- order, burnt with caustic. This application gave her intense pain, and, on the healing of the wound she found her sufferings rather augmented than diminished by the experiment. After four more years of suffering, she consulted Mr. Abernethy, when the circumstances of the case were such as to render an operation indispensably necessary, of this Dictionary.) Notwithstanding the occasional success of the knife and caustics, I concur with Dr. Hosack, Sir B. Brodie, mid others, in the opinion that many forms of neuralgia depend upon constitutional or other causes, completely out of the reach of such If the original disease operates im- expedients. - „ . mediately on the nerves of the affected part (says The pain of the part was intolerable, and it ex- I Sir Benjamin Brodie), producing i" P«j". ^ - - ■■ - and this muscular spasm, or paralysis, you will have first far it is within the reach of topical tumor presses on a nerve. or if tended all up the nerves of the arm , ., - , general pain was so constant during the night, as to consider liowl to denrive the natient of rest. The muscles of the remedies. J-l _ • , , ,, . . blck' f the nLt were occasionally affected with some foreign body, Js a musket-ball, or a piece o spasms The integuments of the affected Uead bone, irrUates its surfe^^^^^^^^^^^ were much hotter than those of the opposite arm, its substance, perhaps the turaoi oi the_ foreign and sometimes the temperature was so increased as to cause a burning sensation in them. Under these circumstances, Mr. Abernethy did not hesi- tate to divide the nerve of the finger, from which all this disorder seemed to originate. He laid it bare by a longitudinal incision, of about three- quarters of an inch in length, from the second joint of the finger; and divided it opposite to that joint, by a curved sharp-pointed bistoury, which was conveyed under it. He then took liold of the nerve with a pair of forceps, and reflecting it downwards, removed a portion of it, half an inch in length, so that the possibility of a quick reunion might be prevented, The wound was brought ody may be removed by a surgical operation, or the tumor may be reduced by other means. If this cannot be accomplished, or if the nerve itselt be altered in structure, either from disease or iii- jury it will become a matter for consideration whether the limb should be amputated, or whether the nervQ should be divided. It is only under these circumstances that any advantage can be expected to arise from the division ot the nerve. In ordinary cases of neuralgia.^vlierc the disease on which it depends is i.i the brain, or in some other distant part of the body, or where it is con- nected with some derangement of the general health, it is evident that such an operation caimot