TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE. 701 iron, or other tonics may be given at the same time. A nutritious but unstimulating diet maybe taiien, though in weakly persons wine or beer will aid by improving the general health. If gout bo present, colchicum may be given, combined with alkalies and mild opiates ; the dose i)f mercury should be reduced, although not alto- ^'ether discontinued, and special attention paid to the digestive organs. Wlieu the affection results from rheumatism, opium in full doses, with the iodide of potassium and alkalies, will be of service ; in more chronic cases, guaiacum will often answer. Should the disease arise from syphilis, mercury is most valuable, but it must not be pushed to salivation ; blue pill, the bichloride, or the iodide, of mercury will be found the most useful forms of this medicine, according to circumstances. When there is a hydrocele of any size, the fluid may be drawn off, by which means the compression upon the spermatic vessels is removed, and the dragging on the cord diminished ; but the radical cure of the hydrocele should not be attempted until the testicle has nearly recovered, when very probably any further collection of fluid will be absorbed. In the few cases of chronic orchitis where sup- puration occurs, an incision should be made, and after the matter has escaped, the wound will often heal up. If the purulent collection be allowed to find its way to the surface, the testicle is often much injured by the pent-up matter, and the tunica albuginea and integuments may be largely destroyed, so that protrusion of the gland tissue takes place, forming a hernia testis. I Scrofulous Disease of the Testicle.—This affection is very slow in its progress, and is characterised by its preference for the epididymis and spermatic cord, rather than for the body of the testis, by its tendency to terminate in suppuration, and by the peculiar cachexia with which it is associated. The disease consists in a deposit of tubercular matter between the convolutions of the epididy- mis, and less frequently amongst the tubuli se- meniferi of the gland itself. This deposit takes l)lace not only into the cellular tissue connecting the tubular structure, but even into the tubes themselves, and according to some observers, this is its more usual seat. Under ordinary circum- stances, scrofulous disease of the testicle is met with as the local expression of a constitutional taint ; it may remain inactive and painless for months or years, until at length some excitant sets up inflammation in the part affected, under which the tuljercular material softens, and is ultimately discharged as pus, together with the disintegrated tissues adjoining. Although this happens in the large majority of cases, yet suppuration does not invariably result. In some few instances changes occur in the material similar to those observed in the lungs or other organs, viz. an absorption of the fluid portion of the deposit, and a gradual cretifi- cation of its solid constituents. In strumous persons tubercle is often formed in the epididymis or testis after an attack of inflammation in those parts, andsuppuration then takes place much more speedily and certainly than when the disease depends upon idiopathic causes only. Rapid disorganisation occurs sometimes when tubercular infiltration of the gland takes place in a person suffering from phthisis ; in some of these cases the miliary form of tubercle may be met with in the testis, and the inflammatory symptoms produced are then of a more acute character. Scrofulous disease of the testis may be found at all ages, even in very young children, but it is more frequent froni the period of puberty until about thirty or thirty-five years of age, that is to say, during the time when the functional activity of the gland is greatest. Both testes may be affected, but the disease is more commonly confined to one. At first there is no pain, even on firm compression, and hardened masses can be felt studding the gland, or the cord ; they are quite localised, so that the in- tervening tissue is soft and natural to the touch. After a varying time these swellings increase in size, and perhaps blend together, so that the whole organ may be enlarged ; the most prominent no- dules ultimately soften, and give an indistinct sense of fluctuation. The epididymis may be largely infiltrated, and the testicle remain perfectly free from disease, em- bedded in the mass of deposit behind it. Scrofu- lous disease is seldom limited to the body of the gland ; when, however, such is the case, the tumour rarely attains so large a size as when the epididy- mis is also affected. Accumulation of fluid in the tunica vaginalis is not constant, and, when present, only to a small amount.] The following is the description given of the scrofulous testicle by Sir Benjamin Brodie. The patient experiences a slight pain in one part of the testicle, and there a little enlargement is felt, gene- rally at the upper end of the epididymis. Then a slight pain is experienced at another part, and here is perceived another enlargement, which is com- monly also in the epididymis. These small tu- mours increase in size, and gradually become more painful. Sometimes as many as three or four of them are found on the surface of the testicle, but they are generally connected with the epididymis. The skin becomes adherent to them, and one of them is converted into an abscess, which bursts through the external skin. A similar abscess forms in an- other, and runs the same coarse. These abscesses discharge very little matter, and they do not heal like a healthy abscess. When a probe is intro- duced into one of the sinuses thus formed, it passes down into the centre of the tubercle, or tumour in which the abscess originated. In some instances the disease will go on until the whole of the testicle is disorganised. Sometimes it is confined to one testicle ; sometimes both are similarly in- volved. Occasionally it will completely destroy one of them ; but more frequently the testicle is only partially injured, and a great deal of the glandular structure remains in a natural state. In the more advanced stage, the testicle some- times becomes uniformly enlarged, and hard throughout ; yet, on careful examination, the re- mains of the projecting tumours, which existed in the beginning, may be perceived. The disease is generally connected with other scrofulous symp- toms ; as enlarged glands in the neck, scrofulous disease of the spine or hip, or of some of the joints. (See London j\fed. Oax. vol. xiii. p. 377.) Dupuytren remarks that, although it may not seem difficult at once to distinguish an enlargement of the testicle produced by syphilis, or by an ex- ternal injury, from another which is scrofulous, yet in their beginning thoy sometimes absolutely^