cancerous tubercle on the left edge of the tongue. Tlie little swelling was circuiuscribed ; its size did not exceed that of n filbert ; the pains were lancinating ; the sore had penetrated deeply, und its tuberculated edges were affected with scirrhous hardness. Extirpation of the disease seemed to present the only chance of cure ; but the patient refused to accede to anything but palliative plans, and slie died in the course of a lew montlis. One of the best descriptions of cancer of the tongue 13 that of Mr. Travers. " The disease," he says, <• IS not a smooth and firm rounded tubercle, such as 13 often met with in this organ, but an ir- ^ regular rugged knob in its first stage, generally situated in the anterior third, and midway between the raphe' and one edge. It sometimes, but sel- dom, extends across the middle line, although it often extends alongside of it. The hardness is unyielding, inelastic, and the mucous surface puckered and rigid. It also gives to the finger and thumb of the surgeon the sensation of solidity, or oi Its penetrating the entire muscular substance, being perceived equally on either surlace. Sharp shoots of pain are felt through the side of the af- fected organ, towards the angle of the jaw and ear. The disease tends to run backward towards the base or posterior edge. It sometimes acquires great bulk before ulceration takes place, so as to project the tongue from the mouth. In this state, a female patient of mine was seen some time ago in St. Thomas's Hospital, in whom the permanent projection of the diseased organ, beyond the widely distended lips, was from three to four inches. Life was sustained for a time by nutritive inj.-c- tions. The ulceration often extends from the edge of the tongue to the membrane of the mouth and gums, when the elevated and distended membrane at length gives way, and ulceration is rapid. The surface of the ulcer is very uneven, clean and bright granulations appearing in parts, and in others deep and sloughy Jiollows. The darting pain is very acute, but only occasional. There is a dull aching always present, and as constant a spitting as in deep salivation. The irritation is such as soon impairs the powers of life. It happens to strong and hitherto healthy persons, for the most jiart males from the age of fortv onwards. There is generally an evening pa"- roxysm of pain, and the nights are much disturbed by the secretion accumulating in the throat and exciting cough. Often the patient is roused by a painful coinpressinn of the tongue falling be- tween the jaws. Tlie leaden hue of the counte- nance, the loss of flesh, and difficulty of takim' food, although symptoms of the advanced stage of the disease, are observed long before the ap- petite or muscular powers fail in proportion. Frequent moisture with mild fluids, as tepid milk and water, or confectioner's whey, is grateful to the patient. Towards the fatal termination of the disease occasional profuse hieinorrhages take plac(' at shortening intervals, and alarm and weaken the patient, who ultimately dies tabid and exhausted^ generally with symptoms of more extensive disease' of the mucous membrane ill other parts." (Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xv. p. 24.5.) [Acc6rdiiig to Mr. Krichsen, these affections usually commence as epithelioma, with tubercles or fissures, more rarely as scirrlius in u solid mass in th^ body of the organ ; nijst commonly tile dis- (TONGUE, DISEASES OP. 7.15 ease is situated at the sides, but occasionally the tip is affected. If it appears as a tubercle, or warty growth, it is usually flat, indurated, and of a purplish-red colour, gradually running into ulceration ; if with a fissure, this from the com- niei.cement has an indurated base, a foul surface and an everted edge. As the ulceration extends, a chasm with ragged sides, a sloughy surface that can- not be cleansed, and a widely indurated base gradu- ally form; there are great foetor of the breatli,proluse salivation, and, as the disease progresses, implica- tion of the mucous membrane and of the structures of the floor of the mouth," and of the sub-maxillary or sub-lingual glands takes place. The lymphatic glands under the jaw usually become involved at an early period, but the disease may exist for a year or two withojt their becoming implicated. Cachexy at last supervenes, and the patient dies from the conjoined effects of exhaustion, irritation and poisoning of the system {Erichsen's Science and Art of Surgery).'] Forestus relates the cases of four women wlio were attacked with cancer of their tongues, and died from the ravages of the disease and hemor- rhage. In, the writings of Hildanus there is a description of the origin and progress of a cancer- ous tubercle on a young man's tongue, whose breath was intolerably fetid, and who died in the most excruciating pain. The same author informs us of another case, exhibiting the good effects of sedative remedies in palliating a cancerous ulcer of the tongue. LCincer appears in the tongue in three different forms, as epithelioma, true hard cancer, or as a warty excrescence with an indurated base, and at a later stage these forms assume the same appear- ances m every respect. The symptoms in the early stage are very similar in each ; they gradu- ally ulcerate 011 their surface, forming a foul sore, and nifiltrate the glands, muscles, and neighbourl mg tissues with cancerous deposit. The diseise may occur on the apex of the tongue, or the Bides, or towards the base, and, according to the situation of the cancer, a peculiar treatment is to be adopted. It is a well-known fact that no therapeutical agents have any effect on it, either when applied externally oradniinistered internallv but on the contrary their adoption is productive of a delay which eventually proves fatal to the suf- ferer. At the earliest period of discovery, before any glandular enlargement has taken place, or con- stituti.,iial effects have shown themselves, the diseased portion should be removed, wide of the affected part, to afford the patient anv chance sufferiilg'f' '""'P"'"'^ Diseased portions of the tongue admit of re- rr J •^"«'''- "f" '^fed. t. xiii 'o«' lio-f't: i'Mfr ?'r";'f "1 ■^'*"- • p. ^4.) Sir E. Home gene- ally passed a double ligature through the cenue of he tongue, behind the diseased portion, and llien tied the threads tightly over each half of the oiKan 80 as to make all the part in front of the constric- tion slough away. If a large portion of the toncuo IS involved, Mr. Liston has recourse to ligatures • these are passed wide of the disease, by means of needles fixed in haiidle.s, the perforations for the threr.d being close to their point.. Two or more