OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 379 ,1 movable' sliding tube or ej'e-piece. The 1" . biect glass is placed in front of the mirror, and has attached to its setting a rod fastened to a button and a screw, which passes through a slit in tlie side of the ocular tube, so that the object glass ■ an be moved to and fro, and fixed at any point. I'he ocular tube is also furnished with a draw tube, wliich serves to steady the apparatus upon the eye of the patient, and also to retain the eye in any desired position. To use this instrumentit is held in the left hand for examination of the left eye, and vice versa ; while the free hand regulates the positions of the object lens and of the draw tube. With clear vision at a distance of 9", no elongation by means of the draw tube is required, but only movement of the object lens to the extent of ^" or A". In presbyopia, the tube must be lengthened ^" or ; and in myopia it may be necessary to move the object lens as much as 1", and to substitute a weaker ocular (a bi-convex of 6") for the one ordinarily employed. For examination of the cornea, iris, or lens the ocular is removed by withdrawing the tube in which it is set ; thus reducing the instrument to a simple magnifying glass. This ophthalmoscope can also be employed in daylight. Its advantages for examination of the inverted image only are these: That the whole of the necessary apparatus is united in a portable form ; and that the tube, by totally excluding side light, facilitates the perception of aerial images. They are much out-weighed by the disadvantages of having the source of light united to the instru- ment; of having the object lens with its axis straight, so as to transmit reflected mirror images; and of having the mirror stationary. The Ophthalmoscope of Slelhuag Von Carton.— It consists of a concave mirror, having a focal distance of some inches, perforated through the middle, and attached by a joint at its edge to a handle. By this joint the mirror can be set in any required direction. Behind is a Rekoss's disc with its axis of rotation eccentric to the mirror, so that, by turning the disc, any one of its marginal holes containing lenses can be brought opposite to the mirror opening. The Ophthalmoscope of Hasner consists of a brass tube, in which a second tube slides freely, and is capable of being fixed in any position by a screw, which projects through a slit in the outer tube. A perforated glass concave mirror of 7" focal length, set in a metal back, is suspended by screws at the free end of the tube, and can turn upon these screws as on its axis. It receives the light from a lamp through an opening in the side of the tube. At the free end of the second tube a two-inch convex lens, set in a metal ring, is suspended by the screws in the same manner as the mirror. Behind the mirror is a spring clip, united to the tube by a joint, and capable of being set at any desired obliquity. The distance of the lens from the opening in the mirror is shown in Paris inches by a graduated scale, and may be in- creased to 8". In Hse the observer holds the screws by which the two-inch convex lens is suspended with the thumb and index finger of one hand, the remaining fingers of which rest upon the cheek or forehead of the patient, and maintain the end of the instrument at a distance o/ from Ij-" to li" from his eye. By means of the screws'the necessary obliquity is given to the lens, so as to displace laterally the reflected images of the mirror. The ocular tube is held by the screws with the thumb and forefinger of the other hand, the side opening is turned towards a lamp suitably placed, andj by means of the screws such a direction is given to the mirror that the.rays falling upon it are reflected down the axis of the tube into the eye of the patient. When this is illuminated, the details of the fundus oculi may be brought into view by sliding the tubes. For ordinary cases a single convex lens will be sufficient, but in high degrees of presbyopia it may be necessary to place a second, of 15" or 20" focal length, into the spring clip. The same may also be done in order to obtain a more highly magnified image. Professor Ryba makes the spring clip much smaller, and connects it by a twice-jointed stem to the edge of the metal plate behind the mirror. By this arrangement the ocular lens can be accurately applied to the central peribration of the mirror in any oblique direction of the latter, and in any direction of the axis of the tube. The merits of this instrument are (1) Being com- posed of solid metal it occupies little room and is very portable. (2) The inverted image of the retina is easily found, because the tubes slide freely, and be- cause their considerable diameter renders it unneces- sary to look exactly in the line of their axis. (.'J) Its connection virith the patient by the hands of the observer keeps it steady in its place. (4) The mobility of the mirror renders it easy to give any direction to the instrument without altering the position of the flame. (5) The reflected images of the object-lens are readily set aside by shifting it. (6) The retinal image contained within a blackened tube, from which all side light is excluded, ap- pears much more clearly than when formed in the open air. (7) The clip behind the mirror facilitates the application and removal of ocular lenses. (8) By the graduation of the tube the distance of the observing eye from the convex lens can be read ofl^, and in known vision of the observer, and with the lens at a constant distance from the patient, tlia refraction of the latter can be determined, ap- proximatively at least, by a comparison of difl:erent observations. The Ophthalmoscope of Williams.—This instru- ment consists of two small concave mirrors, having a focal length corresponding to the distance at which the observer sees small objects clearly. They are set in a spectacle frame in such a manner as to turn on vertical axes, and this frame being worn by the observer, the light from a side lamp is directed into the eye observed. The advantage of having both hands at liberty, claimed by Williams, is far overbalanced by the evils of diflicult adjust- ment and uncertain fixation. The Ophthalmoscope of Desmarres consists of a concave mirror 4 centimetres in diameters, and of 7" focal length, witli two parallel holes for the observer, according as ho may examine tho right or tho left eye. An ocular lens of 1 J" is fixed to an opening in the handle of the mirror, and can bo applied to either of the perforations. Another instrument likewise used by Desmarres, consists of two concave mirrors, united together back to back. The two mirrors have different foci, one at 12, the other at 9 centimetres. In- stead of a central opening there is in each mirror n