soft, tense or wiry, or jerking, depends on the vital condition of the system, and points to impor- tant points in prognosis and treatment. 3i'd. With increased frequency of pulse, in- creased frequency of respiration is combined. In children, in pure febricula, the writer has observed the respirations to be CO in the minute. 4th. The heat of the body is raised from 100^ or 101° to 104'', or higher. This, considered toge- ther with the increased rapidity of circulation and respiration, seems to give rise to an increased oxydation of the blood elements, and probably, according to the chemist Simon, of the blood cor- puscles. Sth. The skin is dry as well as hot; the mouth dry, with considerable thirst; the urine and alvine secretions scanty. This imperfect elimination of water is remarkable, and utterly inexplicable. Ap- petite is deficient; but there is usually a craving for water and acid frnits. 6th. The nervous system is deranged, as is proved by headache, difficulty of collecting the thoughts, delirium during the night, and universal lassitude. 7th. The urine shows remarkable changes. Be- fore an idiopathic inflammation the writer believes that it will very often be found unusually pale and copious, yet sometimes before'the disease it becomes scanty and high-coloured; during the dis- ease it is almost always so; as the disease declines it deposits copious sediments of lithates, variously coloured, which are probably the representatives of the blood elements that have undergone oxyda- tion, and which constitute the critical sediments of the older physicians. Besides, in the earlier stage of inflammations and fevers, the urine often contains serum (as evidenced by tlie coagulation of its albu- men by heat), and fibrinous casts of its tubules, caused by congestion and exudation. " The following," says Simon, "are the general charac- teristics of the urine in inflammatory afltections. The urine is darker than usual, and is of a yellow- brown, or reddish-brown tint ; it has an acid reaction, and is generally of a high specific gra- vity. With respect to its most important con- stituents the urea is either absolutely increased, or is at the ordinary physiological average, or may be a little below it; tiie uric acid is always ab- solutely increased, and so are the extractive matters, especially the alcoholic extract; the salts are always absolutely diminished, especially the chloride of sodium; the sulphates, on the other hand, either approximate to the physiological average, or are not far below it. {Simon, Ani- mal Chemistry, Sydenham Soc. Lond. 1846, vol. ii. p. 208.) " Assuming, as the means of numerous analyses, that the urea constitutes 39 per cent, of the solid residue of normal urine, I liave found it as high as 46-8 in inflammatory affections, (In abdominal typhus, with a quick small pulse, I have seen it as low as 22.) "The physiological avprage of uric acid may be placed at 1-5 percent of the solid residue. In the phlogoses I have observed it amount to nearly 3; and Becquerel even found it rise as high as o'O. The quantity of extractive matter, &c., which lu normal urine amounts to 23-5 of the solid residue, rises in inflammations to 43. Tlio fixed suits which, in healthy urine, constitute about 25 per cent, of the solid residue, diminish here to 12, INFLAMMATION. 15 The sulphate of potass, which in healthy nrine forms about 10 per cent, of the solid residue, I found to vary in inilammation between 7 and 9. " The composition of the urine becomes changed if much blood is abstracted during the progress of the inflammation. It becomes clearer, specifically lighter, and the amount of urea decreases absolutely and relatively. "At the height of the inflammation, or, perhaps, it would be better to sa)', at the time when the fever puts on the synochal type most strongly, the urine is usually clear and deeply coloured. It subse- quently forms a sediment of a yellow or red colour, composed of uric acid and urates." The chlorides in the urine are of great import- ance in semeiolog3', and especially their diminution. The chloride of sodium often almost entirely dis- appears, especially in inflammation during the exu- dation stage. In pneumonia the chloride of sodium furnishes a scale of the progress of the disease. In the height it disappears, in the absorption stage it returns. The same is the case in typhoid diar- rhoja, and in cholera. (Franc/col unci Ravoth, Uro- scopie, Berlin 18.50, p. 19.) Dr. Paikes speaks of the remarkable increase of the urea and uric acid, the representatives of the nitrogenous tissues in "febrile urine;" and as very little food is taken, it is evident that these proceed from the patient's own tissues, which are wasting. The pigment, also, supposed to proceed from metamorphosis of the blood-cells, is in- creased, as are likewise the sulphur compounds, whether oxydised or unoxydised. {On the Urine in Health and Disease, by E. A. Parkes, M.D Sec, Lond. 1860, p. 300.) _ The disappearance of chlorides from the urine m pneumonia has been particularly studied by Dr. Lionel Beale, whose attention was called to it by the published researches of Redtenbaoher. It appears, as the result of Dr. Beale's enquiries, that the chloride of sodium disappears from the urine entirely, at or about the period when the lung be- comes hepatised. The absence of this salt from the urine sho-#s that it is deficient in the blood, or at least that the blood contains loss than its normal quantity. Notwithstanding this deficiency m the blood and urine. Dr. Beale shows that the sputa in pneumonia contain a greater quantity than healthy pulmonary mucus does, and that the hepa- tised lung tissue contains more than the healthy iung does. Sonn after resolution of the inflamma- tion the chloride becomes restored to the urine, and olten in considerable quantity; and at this period the serum of the blood is found to contain a greater amount of chloride than in health." From these facts it is not unfair to conclude that, during the stage of hepatisation, there exists a preter- natural attraction in the lung for the chloride; and that -when the disease ceases tin's attraction ceases likewise, and the salt is restored to the blood, and appears in the urine as usual. Dr. Beale shows that " a large quantity of chloride of sodium is usually present wherever active cell developcmont is going on; tliat, for example, the growing femur of a six months' foetiiB contains more than 10 per cent, of chloride according to Lehman, whilst the ash of the same hone in the adult contained from 0'7 to I'S per cent.; and that those secretions which contain abundance of cell growth contain far more chlo- ride t)han those whose secretions contain little or