THORAX always, collapses, and then the respiration will be impeded in proportion to the amount of breathing space cut oif. If such collapse has taken place, or if there be blood accumulated in the chest, then the respiratory murmur will be very feeble, or may be absent altogether, and it will be longest detect- able by the side of the spinal column. The voice, too, will be weak, and the ribs on the affected side fixed. The pulse will be feeble, rapid, and unsteady, and the face anxious. If in consequence of adhesions or some other cause the lung does not collapse and the wound is large, the movements of the viscus may be seen, and the air will enter and escape with an audible noise. The respiration, though laboured, will not be so severely compromised, and the respiratory murmur will be easily heard. To these symptoms of penetration we must fur- ther add, as being usually present, irritating cough, pain deeply fixed, and loud, rough, crepitant rales on auscultation. The later symptoms are those of inflammation (pleuro-pneumonia) and effusion (air, blood, pus), or the protrusion of a portion of the lung (pneu- matocele). It is thus apparent that it is only by a combina- tion of symptoms that in most cases we are able to conclude that the lung has been penetrated. In many cases the fact will be sufficiently evident, but in others it is only by observing the following points that we are able to judge. (1) Ha;morrhage by the mouth and wound. (2) The escape of air during expiration by the wound, or into the cellular tissue, or into the thorax. (3) Dyspnoea. (4) Cough and pain. (5) The evidence afforded by auscultation and percussion (as regards respiration, effusion, &c.) (6) The progress of the case. Treatment.—T7ie S/iock wiW require careful man- agement. The patient should be placed in the re- cumbent position, and be kept perfectly quiet. He should not be allowed to speak or make any exer- tion. Heat may be applied to the surface, and a stimulant administered, if there be need, by enema, or by the mouth if he can swallow; yet as much danger, from a recurrence of bleeding, may attend reaction, such measures must be employed with the ntraost caution. It is mainly by the faintino which follows the injury that we hope the hasmorr- hage will be checked. Ilcemorrhage, when free and into the chest, makes itself known by the usual signs of internal bleeding, combined with those which arise from embarrassment of the respiratory functions. The patient will be faint and pale, with a cold and clammy surface; the respiration will be more or lc'33 difficult. He breathes short and hurriedly after the immediate shock hag passed over, during which it was slow and sighing. The pulse is small and tremulous, and the eye gets dull and ultimately glazed. The decubitus is on the wounded side, or he sits up and loiins forward so long as his strength allows. There is thirst, rest- lessness, oppression, and anxiety. The stethoscope liiida no respiratory murmur where the i)lno(l lies, and percussion indicates the dulness which is present, and this may be found to rise higher and higher with the accumulation; po8sil)ly abnormal INJURIES OF THE. 725 clearness may exist above that limit, if air has also gained admittance into the chest. The in- tercostal spaces may be flattened or bulged by the accumulation, and the ribs will lose their usual mobility during respiration. In occasional cases the splashing of the blood may be made out on succussion, and we may have the discoloration of the lumbar region from the infiltration of blood. If the blood escape freely by the external wound, the patient should be placed in such a position aa to favour its discharge while measures are being employed to check its flow. These measures are perfect quietness, the use of ice to the chest, and cold iced ^drinks, digitalis or antimony to diminish the heart's action, or if need be free general de- pletion. However inconsistent it may seem, this hemorrhage, which cannot be stopped by local measures, is best arrested by free venesection, a measure which quickly diminishes the rapidity and volume of the circulation, and thus renders the coagulation and spontaneous arrest of the flowing blood the more apt to take place, both by giving it more rest, and rendering it more plastic. Free, and if necessary repeated, venesec- tion is imperative at this stage if the hjemorrhage is violent and continued, notwithstanding the use of cold locally, the observance of quietness, and the administration of digitalis or antimony in- ternally. If the bleeding is very violent, and fails to be arrested by the above measures, we must close the external wound, and placing the patient on the mjured side, hope to arrest the ha;morrhage by the pressure which the accumulating blood will pro- duce. This is a very unsatisfactory measure to adopt, but none else remains. After all fear of a renewal has passed, i.e. in about a week, the col- lected blood must be evacuated either by enlaro- mg the original wound or an opening made at°a new place, and that before the lung has become bound down or pus has formed. By the applica- tion of cupping glasses the extraction of the blood may be facilitated, and if the wound is free the cavity may be washed out with water. If the blood is allowed to remain in the chest and become decomposed, the utmost danger will result. Empyosma in its worst form will be esta- blished, and inflammation of a destructive kind set up. It thus becomes necessary to remove it effectually, as early as is safe to do so. Piieumo-lhorax will evidence itself by the oppression of respiration to which it gives rise • the inability to lie on the sound side if the accu- mulation is extensive ; the large rounded and fi.xed state of the side of the chest; the diminished or absent respiratory murmur; the feeble voice- the clear tympanitic note on percussion- and finally the puerile breathing on the unalVected side. If fluid is also present then a metallic tinkle or amphoric resonance may bo found. I'neumo. thorax may appear shortly after the receipt of tlio wound, or hite combined with elfuaion. It is in small oblique or valvular wounds that it is most apt to occur, and it may even arise without any wound being present in the chest walls when the lung has been punctured by a Iiroken rib, or oven in violent contu'.ions without fracture when the lung has been torn. Pneumo-thorax is generally combined with emphysema (though not necessarily- so), and such emphysema may be local, alfectiiiff the pnrietcs of the chest alone, or be general froiii