248 LITHOTOMY. formed (Med, Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 127) ; and Sir A. Cooper expreasly states that the greatest advantage of his mode of extracting calculi with a dilating instrument is the preservation of the power of retaining the urine. (See Med. Chir. Trms. vol. xii. p. 240.) Of the propriety of removing calculi under a certain size, and also pieces of broken catheter, &c., in this manner, no doubt can be entertained; but if the foreign body were very large, I should consider an incision the safest and least painful practice. In females lithotomy is much more easy of exe- cution, and less dangerous, than in male subjects. It may be done in various ways; but the surgeons of the present time constantly follow the mode of making the requisite opening by dividing the urethra and neck of the bladder. Louis employed for this purpose a knife which cut on e.-ich side, and was contained in a sheath; Le Blanc, a con- cealed bistoury, which had only one cutting edg6; Le Cat, his gorgeret-cystitome; Frere Come, his lithotome cache'. Of these instruments the best, T think, is that of Frere Come. But at present every surgeon knows that the operation may be done, as conveniently as possible, with a common director, and a knife that has a long, narrow straight blade. A straight staff, or director, is introduced through the meatus urinarius; the groove is turned obliquely downwards and out- wards in a direction parallel to the ramus of the left 08 pubis; and the knife is thus conducted into the bladder, and makes the necessary incision through the whole extent of the passage and neck of the bladder. Louis and Fleurant, as I have said, were the inventors of particular bistouries for dividing both sides of the female urethra at once. The instru- ment of the former effected this purpose in passing from without inwards; that of the latter in pass- ing from within outwards. Fleurant's bistoury bears some resemblance, in principle, to ■ Frere Come's lithotome cache', or to the cutting forceps with which Franco divided the neck of the bladder. The reason assigned as a recommendation of these bistouries is, that they serve to make a freer open- ing for the passage of large stones than can be safely made by cutting only in one direction. Dubois adopted a method which consists in divid- ing the meatus urinarius directly upwards towards the symphysis of the pubes, dilating the wound, and then taking out the calculus with the forceps. The invention of this method, which has been referred to Dubois, is at least as ancient as the sixteenth century. Par^ assigns the merit of it to Colot, who made a small incision " tout au dessus, et en ligne droite de Torifice du col de la vessie, ct non II cote'." This plan, ns revived by Dubois, is executed either with a director and bistoury, or a lithotome cache. If the first instrument be used, a director, having a deep groove in it, that is closed at its extremity, is introduced into the meatus urinarius, with the groove turned upwards. The surgeon takes hold of the handle with his left hand, and, by means of the director, depresses the fisre-part of the vagina with a certain degree of force. With the right hand he introduces along groove a narrow sharp bistoury, with which the „ ^ the upper side of the urethra is to be divided through its whole extent, and the adjacent textures as far as the subpubic ligament. " Thus (says M. Velpeau) an opening six or eight lines long may be formed, or, indeed, one from eight to ten lines in length, when the attempt to draw out the stone is made." However, it appears to him that it would be dangerous to try to extract in this manner any calculus the dimensions of which exceed an inch or fifteen lines. However, he saw M. Bongon remove one of this size from a young woman, who perfectly recovered; and M. Thomas, of Tours, was equally successful in a similar case. In withdrawing the forceps, it is necessary to press forcibly upon the lower side of the meatus, and to draw out the calculus in a sufficiently low direc- tion; for otherwise it would be pulled .igainst the back of the symphysis pubis. In 1824 this occurrence baffled for a considerable time an excel- lent operator in one of the hospitals in Paris, though the calculus was not larger than a partridge's egg. On changing the direction of the forceps, it was easily extracted. (See M. Velpeau, Nouv. Elem de Med. Oper, t. iii. p. 847.) Lisfranc also carries the incision upwards, and a little to one side of the symphysis of the pubes, because this mode of operating he finds less frequently followed by incontinence of urine than others. When the opening thus made is not large enough, he makes another cut obliquely downwards and outwards. When the stone is known to be very large, Sabatier prefers the apparatus altus. A case may present itself in which the posterior part of the bladder drawn downwards by the weight of the stone may displace' a portion of the vagina, and make it protrude at the vulva in the form of a swelling. Here there would be no doubt of the propriety of cutting into the tumour, and taking out the foreign body contained in it. Rousset performed such an operation, and Fabricius Hildanus, in a case where the stone had partly made its way into the vagina, enlarged the opening, and successfully extracted the foreign body. Me'ry proposed to cut into the posterior part of the bladder, through the vagina, after introducing a common curved staff; but the apprehension of urinary fistulas made him abandon the project. . Extraordinary circumstances may always render a deviation from the common modes of operating, not only justifiable, but absolutely necessary. Thus Tolet met with a case where a woman had a prolapsus of the uterus, with which the bladder was also displaced. In the latter viscus several calculi were felt; an incision was made into it, and the stones having been extracted, the displaced parts were reduced, and a cure speedily followed. (Sabatier, Med. Oper. t. ii. p. 107.) Incontinence of urine, consequent on lithotomy in women, is by no means infrequent. Mr. Hey cut two female patients for the stone, both of whom were afterwards unable to retain their urine, and were not quite well when discharged from the Leeds Infirmary. These cases led him in a third example to endeavour to prevent the evil by introducing into the vagina a cylindrical linen tent, two inches long and one broad, with a view of bringing the edges of the incision together without obstructing the passage of urine through the urethra. The plan answered, if it be allow- able to make such an inference from a single trial. (See Hey's Fractical Obs. in Surgery, p. ^0", ed. 1810.) [It is well known, as the author has observed,