714 TETANUS points are worthy of notice and consideration. Is tetanus a blood poison like hydrophobia, and the poisoning by strychnia, to which it is closely allied in its symptoms, and its probable seat, in the medulla oblongata and upper part of the spinal cord ?] In the campaigns in Spain and Portugal, according to the report of Sir James McGrigor, tetanus occurred in every description and in every stage of wounds, from the slightest to the most foimidable : it followed the healthy and the slough- ing ; the incised and the lacerated ; the mostsim- ])le and the most complicated. It occurred at uncertain periods; but it was remarked that if it did not commence in 22 days from the date of the wound the patient was safe. (See Med. Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 453.) In Egypt, as we learn from Larrey, the latest period of the commence- ment of tetanus after a wound was from the fifth to the fifteenth day. {Mbm.de Chir. MUitaire, t.i. p. 263.) [See also statistics on the state and con- dition of the wound at the time of the occurrence of tetanus in the several recorded cases, {Guys Hosp. Rep., op. cit., p. 71.)] It is observed by Dr. Dickson, that as the acute form of tetanus is so unilbrmly fatal, it is of the greatest consequence to attend to whatever may assist in detecting the disease early, or in warding it off. Richerand states that in wounds threaten- ing convulsions and tetaiius, a persevering e.xten- sion of the limbs during sleep often manifests it- self before any affection of the lower javkf; and we should naturally pay more attention to any admo- nition of this kind in punctured or extensive lace- rated wounds, particularly of tendinous or liga- mentous parts, and especially in injuries of the feet, hands, knee-joint, back, &c. Some prelusive indications of danger may often be derived from the increase of pain, irritation, restlessness, nervous twitches, pain and difficulty in deglutition, or in turning the head; spasms, or partial rigidity of some of the voluntary muscles; pain at the scrobi- cuhis cordis; a suppressed or vitiated state of the discharge, &c., which mark the slower approaches of the disease. Larrey adduces several instances of tetanus, in which the wound was either dry, or afforded only a scanty serous exudation, and where the symptoms were relieved on suppuration being re-established; and Dr. Reid {Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journal for July, 1815,) remarks, that on removing the dressing, the wound was covered with a darkish unhealthy-looking matter, and that he had seen this change the forerunner of tetanus in two other instances. A torpor of the intestines has generally been observed to precede as well as accompany the disease, and Boyer, in particular, enumerates an obstinate constipation amongst the predisposing causes. {Mai. Chir., t. i. p. 287.) Mr. Abernethy informs us that in four cases where he inquired into the state of the bowels, the eva- cuations were not like fa;ces; and he proposes as a question, in investigating the cause, what is tlie state of the bowels between the infliction of the injury and the appearance of this dreadful malady ? {Surgical Works, vol. i. p. 104.) Dr. Parrj' thinks the velocity of the circulation an useful criterion of the danger of the disease, and observes, that if the pulse be not above 100 or 110 by the fourth or filth day, the patient almost always recovers; but that, if it be quickened early, the disease mostly proves fatal, and yet there are a few instances of recovery, where the pulse rose to 120 on the first daj'. Baron Larrey remarks that when the perspiration, which so often attends the disease, is symptomatic, it begins upon the head and extremities; but that when it is critical it occurs over the chest and the abdomen. (Mtm. de Chir. MUitaire, t. i. p. 250".) It must be con- fessed, however, that in many cases perspiration flows very freely without bringing relief. {Rees's Cyclopwdia, art. Tckmus.) [Puerperal tetanus, and tetanus following lesions of the uterus and abortion, have been for some time noticed by obstetricians ; the disease, for the most part, is of an acute character, and is generally fatal.—(Simpson, Edin. Month. Journ., February, 1854.) See also cases in British Med. Journ. for June and September, 1865; four cases in Dublin Qicar. Jour., 1865,. and a case in the Medical Times and Gazelle, 1866. Trismus nasceiitium.—Tetanus attacking new- born children offers the same symptoms as in the adult. For details see works on diseases of children.] \_Diagnosis.—As regards diagnosis, the practical surgeon has no difficulty in discovering the pre- sence of the disease—the powerful and painful spasms of the voluntary muscles; the constancy and non-intermitting character of these spasms; the extreme rigidity and fixed closure of the jaws; the peculiar cast of countenance known as the " tetanic grin;" the great pain at the scrobicu- lus cordis from spasm of the diaphragm; the arched and bowed condition of the hoAy; the superven- tion of the disease after a wound, as in the trau- matic form; and its occurrence after exposure to cold and moisture, as in the idiopathic variety ; the affection of the laryngeal and phai-yngeal muscles in the advanced stage;—all these symp- toms taken together, at once stamp the disease as one of tetanus. However, taking any of the symp- toms singly and individually, some errror may be arrived at in the diagnosis : thus it has been mis- taken for hydrophobia from the severity and inten- sity of the spasm of the muscles of the larynx and pharynx, which is the almost pathognomonic sign of hydrophobia, but in this latter disease there is no continued spasm of the voluntary muscles; there is no tetanic grin, but a wild maniacal kind of expression of countenance, never to be forgotten when once seen; there is no locked jaw; the disease has followed the bite of a rabid animal; there is extreme and intolerant sensibility of the surface and organs of sense, and the characteristic thirst and aversion to fluids, so that the sight or noise of fluids induces the paroxysms. Again, tetanus has been mistaken for rheumatism, and, in fact, two cases, prior to admission to Guy's Hospital, were treated for that disease ; but it was only in the very early stage, before the symptoms peculiar to tetanus were full}' developed. Epilepsy cainiot be mistaken for tetanus, al- though in an epileptic case {G. H. R.,opi. cit. p. 74) tetanus supervened a few days previous to the ex- pected attack, and was complicated with screaming andconvulsions,resemblingthose of periodicepileptic seizures. Poisoning by strychnia is the only dise.-ise which might probablv lead us into error respecting the diagnosis, and in the trial of Palmer for the mur- der of Cook it was endeavoured to be proved that the symptoms in his case were more those of tetanus than those of strychnia; it is true they are alike m