tliese uiiFortiinate cases may he cured by prac- tised and skilliil surgical inaiiipulatioii. Mr. Brown at one time substituted separate leaden clumps to fasten each suture for Dr. Bozeman's single plate or button ; but latterly, following tlie example of Dr. Sims, he has discarded all com- plicated mechanical appliances, and has used the silver wire as a simple interrupted suture. The late Sir James Simpson introduced other ingenious methods of fastening the sutures, but it is unnecessary to dwell upon them, as the simple twisting of their ends is now almost universally preferred. (See Marion Sims; Avierican Jouri'i. of Med. Science, Jan. 1852; and Anniversary Dis- course to (/le Neto York Academy of Medicine, 1858; Baker Brown, on Surg. Diseases of Women, Slid ed., 1861; J. Y. Simpson, Med. Tiims and Oaz., Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859.) VESrCO-VAOINAL FISTULA. 093 Operation. Positionoftkepatient.—In his earlier operations, Dr. Marion Sims placed the patient on her knees, with the nates elevated and the head and shoulders depressed. In this position the abdominal and pelvic viscera gravitate towards the epigastric region, and if the labia and nates are drawn up- wards and outwards by an assistant, the air enters the vagina, stretching out that canal and affording an easy view of its interior. The inspection is further facilitated by a bent spatula, or rectangular speculum, to raise the perineum and recto-vaginal septum. Dr. Sims afterwards adopted the senii- prone position, the patient lying on her left side, with the thighs flexed at right angles with the pelvis, the right a little more than the left. The left arm is thrown behind and the chest rotated forwards, bringing the sternum closely in contact with the table. The patient being thus rolled over as much as possible on the front, and the labia being drawn aside the air enters and dilates the vagina in the same manner as above described. This position IS much less irksome to the patient, while It admits also of the use of anasthetics !f desired, but Dr. Sims rarely resorts to them. Mr. Baker Brown adopted the lithotomy position and his example has been generally followed in this country. It is in most respects more con- venient both to the operator and the patient, and decidedly to be preferred when clih.rofurm is ad- ministered, but it does not perhaps afford so com- plete a view of the parts, nor does the light fall so directly upon the vesico-vaginal septum. A good side-light is essential to the satisfactory per- formance of these operations, and the operating theatres of hospitals, which are usually lighted by a skylight, are not well adapted for the purpose. To remedy this inconvenience, the writer has re- cenily, in St. Mary's Hospital, used the oxy- hydrogen lime-light on seveial nccnsioiis, and has found the operation thereby greatly tiicilitatcd. The lamp should be placed behind the operator's shoulder ; it is fixed on an upright stem, and can be raised or depressed to luiy required level. It can also be directed at any angle. By means of it, a light equal to the brightest sunshine can be concentrated on the part. The best instrument to dilate the vagina and depress the perineum and recto-vaginal septum is the bent concave speculum, used by Sims and Bozem.iii, known as the " duck' bill speculum. Denuilalion of (he. cd.jes of the Fistula.—A vol.. 11. ■good view of the fistula having been obtained, the next point in the operation is the denuda- tion of its edges. When the aperture is high up, and not easily accessible, it may' be neces- sary to draw the part downwards towards the outlet of the vulva, by means of a vulsellum or a hook inserted into the vesico-vaginal septum, and held by an assistant. With a narrow, sharp- pointed knife, the vaginal mucous n^einbrane form- ing the edges of the fistula should be removed, the vesical mucous membrane which often projects through the aperture being carefully excluded. It is an important condition of success that as broad a cut surface as possible should be obtained, and this object is best effected by dissecting off the edges of the fistula obliquely, bevelling them off, that is, at the expense of the vaginal surface. The de- nudation must be everywhere complete, and if the whole circumference of the opening can be removed in one piece, this object will be the more effectually and certainly secured. Mr. Hilliard has invented a forked instrument, which he calls a "fistula clamp," for transfixing and holding the edges of the opening, so that they can be pared off in one slice. (See Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 24, 1860.) Most surgeons, however, will probably prefer the simpler method with the knife and forceps. As in the operation for cleft palate, knives bent at different angle.? will often be found useful. The direction which the line of union shall take must be determined by the shape of the fistulous opening ; whether it be longitudinal, transverse, or oblique, there seems to be little difference in the probability of union taking place. Insertion of the Sutures.—The sutures have now to be inserted. At first a long needle, set in a handle, with an eye near the point, was armed with a silk ligature and passed through the opposite lips of the fistula; the loop of silk being drawn through with the forceps, the needle was withdrawn, and the silk was thea tied to the metal sutuie, which latter was then drawn through and substituted for it. Another method was a short curved needle, passed with the aid of a porte-aiguille, which was an improve- ment on the first mentioned plan, inasmuch as tlie needle could be drawn through carrying the suture with it ; but both have been superseded by the tubular needle of Mr. Startin. This, with the ' addition of a clever mechanical contrivance, devised we believe by the late Mr. Price, for conducting the wire onwards till it projects through the end of the tube close to the needle's point, leaves little to be desired. The needle should be entered on one side at about ono-tliird of an inch from the cut .idge, and be brought out close to, but carefully ex- cludiiir/, the vesical mucous membrane; it is then carried onwards through corresponding points on the opposite side, when the wire, having been protruded through the end of the tubular needle, is seized with the forceps and the needle is withdrawn, leaving the suture in its place. The distance be- tween the sutures should be about a fourth (it should certainly not exceed a third) of an inch. When a sufficient number have been inserted, they are secured by twisting their ends together, and are then cut oft' short. The adjustment of the edges and fastening the sutures is often a matter of con- siderable dilhcully, especially if the fistula isdeeplv seated. Mr. iJilliaid has contrived iin ingenious iu- d b