^"lils a verj- frequent, although hy no means a : ■cessary, connection with tlu: snppiinuive process, i lie nature ami composition of pus, and the chenii- il clianges to which it is liable, have, therefore, naturally attracted a good deal of attention. Tlie composition of pus seems to vary wiih the locality in which, and with the circinnstances under w-hich, it is formed. Thus, the pus of a chronic abscess appears to decompose more rapidly, and to generate sulphuretted hydrogen nnich more quickly, after e.xposiu'e to air, than that of an acute ab.scess. Pus is not a simple fluid, but the reverse. It contains a large amount of organic matter of different kinds, and it is, therefore, unstable in composition, and liable to undergo putrefactive and other changes. When it decomposes, very various and diffusible bodies ma\' be generated, such as ammonia, gas products, leucine and tyrosine, with acids of the butyric group, &c. Pus maj' also undergo an acid or alkaline fermentation. The former is rare, but when it does occur, volatile and fatty acids are developed. Vide Aitken's Science and Practice of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 8C2, Snd Edition. The author has ascertained from some experi- ments that butyric acid will readily induce a coagu- lation of the blood; but the cause of the local clottini; in veins about wounds cannot be the same in all cases. It will be shown hereafter that very different degrees of severit\' and danger exist in different cases. It may with reason be suspected that the cause of pyremial and septic diseases are due to the generation and absorption of some one or more peculiar organic poisons, rather than to the introduction into the bloud of some product arising out of the ordinary decomposition of pus or other animal fluids; and that, when the poison is intro- duced into the system, the subsequent phenomena may then depend upon the presence or absence of a fit nidus or pabulum in the blood. And the ex- periments of Professor Panum on putrid infection would indicate that there exists a fixed, non-vola- tile, putrid poison, of a peculiarly indestructible character, which resembles, in the intensity of its action, the poison of serpents, curare, and vegetable alkaloids, and differs from all ferments by retain- ing its power after boiling and treatment with alcohol. The results obtained by experimental investi- gation have been very contradictory however. 'J'liis has probably arisen from several distinct but aillied diseases having been embraced within the term pyaimia, and attempts have been therefore made to seek out a cause common to them all, in the way of isolating a special agent. It does not come within the scope of the present article to enumerate all the results of recent investigations, even were this possible; but we must refer the reader to the labours of I'rofessnr Weber, of Bomi, and to those of Ur. Polli, of Milan. The former, in order to study the effects of putrid animal matters introduced into the blond, endeavoured to eliminate, by filtration of the corrupted blood, all the solid matters that it might contain, so as not to confound the effects of a septicajmia with those of embolism and obstructed vessels. He was enabled to produce fever with rigor?, sopor, &c., b}' the injection of filtered putrid blood, and he ri'ciignised the signs of gastro-enteritis, hicniorrhagic <ffiisi(jns into the mucous membranes, &c., upon post-mortem examination, liy this plan he has demonstrated that, without any meclianical ciuises vol.. II. MIA.. 497 produced by embolism, the introduction of septic materials produced characteristic affections. The effect of injected solution of sulphuretted liydrogen was quite the same as that of the putrid fluids themselves, viz., profuse diarrhoeal evacua- tions, croupy inflammations of the bowels, con. gestions of the lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys, fever, irritation of the spine, and opisthotonos. In some cases the symptoms were quite choleraic, with decided lowering of the temperature of tiie body. The blood corpuscles were much contracted and wrinkled ; the blood became dark, and co- agulrited slowly. Sulphide of ammonium acted in the same way, but less pnwerfuUj-. On the other hand, butyric acid produced nervous phenomena, viz., somno- lence, convulsions, paralysis, tetaims, and death. Dr. Polli, as the result of his laborious investiga- tions of the subject of septicaamia and its allies, has constructed a theory, by which he holds that we must regard a true fermentation of the blood in the living animal, produced by the action of special fer?nents or catalytic agents, including such living organisms as bacteria and \ibriones,as alike the exponent of this class of diseases and tlie source from which all our indichtions of treatment should be drawn. Pathology.—The morbid agents which leave distinct traces of their passage or presence in the blood-vessels may be practically divided into three classes. 1. Those which on admixture with the blood determine its coagulation either in an injured part or in some distant capillaries. 2. Those which have a tendency to cause the fibrin (in combination with albumen) to separate from the other elements of the blood, and to deposit itself in some part of the circulating system. 3. Those which upon admixture with the blood produce its decomposition. J. Coagulation of tile blood in a vein may be either a primary or secondary affection; it may be either the cause or effect of the inflammation of the coats of the vein. In the one case the coagu- lation is determined by a diseased condition of the blood, quite independent of the vessels in which it is contained; in the other, it is produced by some impression conveyed through the coats of the vessels. Practically, however, these two classes of cases are not easily distinguished, for it is im- possilile in any individual case to say how far the blood in a vein may have become directly in- fluenced by the contents of the vusa vasorum which are poured into it. The blood frmi the inflamed cellular coat may in this way be directly conveyed to the interior of the vein, and thus be a means by which the impression is produced which causes the coaguLition of the blood in the interior of the affected vessel; or, on the other hand, should the coiiguliim he first formed, the obstruction of these minute vessels may be the means of producing the characteristic congestion of the venous coats. It is evident, then, that the vein and its contents may tict and react upon each other. A desciiption of the diseased actimis in one will, therefore, ne- cessarily involve a consideration of the morbid ciuiditions of the other; and althougli for con venienco these may be described separately, yet iniist they lie considered as often occurring simnl- tanonusly in practice. The gravity of the symp- toms will depend upon the nature of the matters conveyed from liie diseased part, into the circuhi- I< K'