RICKKTS. 5i6 spongy tissue in the ends and epiphyses of a rickety bone, as well as of that layer of car- tilage in which the primary deposit of calcareous matter takes place." His observations lead him to regard the disease as an " excessive preparation for the process of ossification and arrest of the completion of that process." He directs attention to the fact that the linear rows of cells in the ossifying cartilages are very much more widely separated than in health, and also that they are calcified before the matrix. He regards this to be a path<ilogical condition, and therefore differs from KoUiker, who refers his readers to a rickety bone as affording a peculiarly good opportunity for ob- serving the normal process of ossification. (Manual of Human Histology, translated by Busk and Hux- hy, Syd.Soc, 1853.) This spongy material is found everywhere, ex- panding the cancellated structure of bone, sepa- rating the concentric layers of the compact tissue, and, according to Guerin, encrusting the surface beneatli the periosteum. The same author points out that this substance is especially deposited in the concavities of the curves formed by the yield- ing of the long bones, and, when it becomes os- sified, serves as a buttress or column to strengthen the shaft where its curvature is greatest. The solidification of the bone at this part is also re- ferred to by Stanley. When this material is deposited in large quan- tity between the lamellae of the shaft of a bone, it may interfere so much with their nutrition that they perish, and a thin external shell only is left, enclosing a red and somewhat oily fluid, in which osseous scales and ddbris are found floating. The tone is then highly fragile, and when thus degene- rated, constitutes the condition named bj'' Guerin, 'ConsnmpLion Rachitique. ■ As the disease subsides, the bloody serai-gela- tinous fluid either becomes absorbed and the bone regains its natural condition, or it is converted into the spongy tissue above described : this becoming solidified, the bone is rendered much denser than usual, and it may even acquire the consistence of ivory, forming then the Eburn'eaiion of Guerin. In these cases the medullary canal is commonly diminished in size, being encroached upon by osseous deposit, and occasionally where the bone is very much bent it may altogether be obliterated at the extreme point of curvature. The most important result from ossification of this spoiigoid tissue, consists in the consolida- tion of the epiphysis with the shaft, whereby the further growth of the bone is permanently arrested. The flat bnnes are considerably increased in thickness in consequence of expansion of their lacnnse and thickening of the periosteum, the com- pact tissue being generally much thinned. The condition of the marrow varies in different specimens: it is usually softer th.in in health and gorged with blood. Boyer states that it is re- placed by a "reddish serosity." Rufz describes it as paler than usual, whilst Duges says it is less greasy and of a redder colour than in health. The constitutional symptoms which usher in the bone disease usually commence during the first year after birth, though seldom before the third month. The child becomes dull and spiritless, appears languid and drowsy, is unwilling to move about or to play, loses appetite, is very thirsty, with a hot skinj and often bathed in perspiration j is restless at night, throwing off the clothes so as to be exposed to the air. The digestive organs are deranged, the appetite capricious, bowels irregular, at times costive, at others the reverse, the motions very foetid, unnatural in appearance, and fre- quently contain no bile. The teeth are cut late, often with much suffering and general irritation. As the disease progresses the muscles become soft and flabby, allowing the spine to bend and the head to droop; the body appears to be universally tender, so that the child cries when moved or even touched. Tlie abdomen is enlarged from distension of the bowels with flatus; the fontanelles do not close, and the skull expands, the intellect becoming deficient. The bones then commence to soften and deformity ensues. The urine in rickets deposits a thick sediment on cooling, which is shown by the experi- ments of Marchand and others to contain phos- phate and other salts of lime in very large excess. These important ingredients of bone are absorbed from the skeleton, conveyed into the blood, and removed by the kidneys from the body. Walther mentions a tendency in rachitic children to the formation of calculi, and accounts for it by the large quantity of earthy phosphates present in the urine ; but the attention of other authors does not appear to have been drawn to this point. Jenner alludes to the emaciation which is often seen in this disease. He attributes it to " albu- minoid infiltration " of the lymphatic glands and spleen (Zoc. cit. p. 105), which he considers to be a not uncommon attendant upon rickets, and a frequent cause of death. The glandular enlarge- ment in these cases has been set down to deposit of tubercle, but according to the above authority the two conditions of rickets and tubercle are not often met with in the same person. A rickety child is peculiarly liable to bron- chitis, which very commonly terminates in death. Laryngismus stridulus is also, according to Jenner, nearly always associated in children with a rickety condition. Fatal collapse of the lung occasionally takes place in consequence of the softened ribs yielding under atmospheric pressure during inspi- ration, and preventing expansion of large portions of the pulmonary tissue. Convulsions from nervous irritation are by no means an unfrequent cause of death in this disease.] Although the osseous system is principally af- fected in rickets, no doubt can be entertained of the dependence of the disorder upon constitutional causes. With regard to the bones, a deficiency in the secretion of the phosphate of lime is certainly not the only thing that marks the disturbance, or imperfection in them ; for, from what has been stated above, it appears that there is a disorganis- ation of their minute textures. In the bones of the skull, as Mr. Shaw observes, there is com- monly exhibited, in a very remarkable manner, some parts of the calvarium acquiring an extra- ordinary degree of thickness, while other parts are reduced to the thinness of paper, and here the di- visions of the tables are lost. Sir Charles Bell had in his possession the skull of a rickety sub- ject, in which the parietal bones were seven- eighths of an inch in thickness at their central paits. He had also the skeleton of a child, seven years of age, in which the parietal bones were ■five-eighths of an inch in thickness. In both these specimens, the calvarium was remarkably thin ill the situation of the sutures and foulauellus.