same process. The threads having been all passed, "you are in general to begin tying tliem in the middle of the wound; though, if the lips bo lield carefully together, it will not be of great consequence which stitch is tied first." (^Opera- lions, chap. 1.) Surgical writers, in general, state, that the num- ber of stitches must, in a great measure, depend upon the extent of the wound. The common rule is, that one suture is sufficient for every inch of the wound; but that, in some instances, a stitch must bo more frequently made, particularly when a wound gapes very much, in consequence of a transverse division of muscles. As we have al- ready explained, it is necessary to pierce the skin, at a sufficient distance from the sides of the wound, lest the thread should cut through the flesh in a short time : but, though Mr. Sharp lays down the necessary distance, in general, as three or four tenths of an inch, and others advise the needle to be always carried through the deepest part of the wound, we must receive these directions, particu- larly the last, as subject to numerous exceptions. When a wound is very deep, it would be absurd, and even, in many instances, dangerous to drive the needle through a vast thickness of parts. Other ■wonnds, of considerable length, might not be, in some places, four-tenths of an inch deep; though, it is true, sutures could never be requisite at such points. The needles for the interrupted suture will pass with the greatest facility, when their shape corre- sponds exactly with the segment of a circle, and they should always form a track of a sufficient size to allow the ligatures, which they draw after them, to pass through the flesh with the utmost ease. The interrupted suture obviously receives its name from the interspaces between the stitches; and it is the one most frequently employed. Its action is frequently assisted, and supported, either with the uniting bandage (see Bandage), or with strips of adhesive plaster, compresses, &c. Quilled Sntme.—As Mr. John Bell has ob- served : " When the wound was deep among the muscular flesh, the old surgeons imagined, that so large a wound could not be commanded by the conmion interrupted suture, however deep the stitches might be driven among the flesh; they were, besides, fearful of using the continued glover's suture in deep gashes, lest the wound sliould be made to adhere superficially, while it was still open within, forming perhaps a suppuration, or deep collection of matter. They believed that a deep muscular wound could not be safely healed without a degree of suppuration : while they wished to bring it together at the bottom, they were afraid to close it very exactly at the month, lest the matter should be collected in the deeper parts ol the wound : it was fur this purpose (says Mr. John Bfll) that they used, what they called the c >uipiiu»d ur fjiti/M sulurc. It is merely the inter- rupted suture, with this ditference, that the ligatures are not tied over the face of the wound, but over two quills, or rolls of plaster, or bougies, which are laid along the sides of the wound. In performing this suture, we make first two, three, or I'oim' stitches, of the intcrrnpted s'.iturc, very deep; and then, all the ligatures being put in, we lay two bougies along the siiles of the wound; then slip one bougie into the loop of the ligatures on one side, drawing all the ligatures from" the other side SUTURES. 669 (Mr. Bell should rather Iiave said, towards the other side), till that bougie is firmly braced down. Next we lay the other bougie, and make the knots of each ligature over it, and draw it also pretty firm; and thus the ligatures, in form of an arch, go deep into the bottom of the wound, and hold it close, while the bougies, or quills, keep the middle of the wound, and lips of it, pressed together with moderate closeness, and prevent any strain upon the threads, or any coarse and painful tying across the face of the wound." In a note, Mr. J. Bell says, that Dionis violently reprobates the quilled suture; but that De la Faye (the annotator nu Dionis) says, it is good for deep muscular wounds. The quilled suture is now scarcely ever employed; nor has it any advantages, except, perhaps, in some wounds of the belly. (See Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 50.) Glover's Sutare.—lh'is had also the name of the continued suture. It was executed by introducing the needle first into one lip of the wound, from within outwards; then into the other in the same way; and in this manner the whole track of the wound was sewed up. It was not, however, till lately, that this suture was totally abandoned; for Mr. Sharp, and seve- ral eminent writers since his time, advised its adoption in wounds of the stomach and intestines. From what has been said in the articles Wounds OP THE Abdomen and Hernia, the reader will perceive that, even in such particular instances, the glover's suture would not be advisable; so that it may, in every point of view, be now considered as totally disused in every case of surgery which can possibly present itself. When we remember, in making this suture, how many stitches are un- avoidable; how unevenly, and in what a puckered state, the suture drags the edges of the skin to- gether; and what irritation it must produce- we can no longer be surprised at its now being never practised on the living subject. It is commonly employed for sewing up dead bodies; a purpose for which it IS well fitted; but, for the honour of surgery, and the sake of mankind, it is to be hoped that It will never again be adopted in practice ' Fidse, or Dry SKtere.—Modern surgeons com- nionly understand by this expression nothing more than the plan of bringing the sides of a wound together by means of adhesive plaister; nor did Mr. Sharp attach any other meaning to the phrase which he sets down as highly ridiculous, as there IS no sewing employed. For the followimr re- marks, I am indebted to Mr. Carwardine, of Earls Colne Pnory, near Halstead, Essex. Alluding to what was stated in the third edition of this Diction ary, concerning the dry suture, he observes - " You do not appear to be aware, any more thm, Mr Sharp of the precise mode of its application, or why It was so called. Indeed, it is a curious cir- cumstance, how tins method of dry suture should have been so lost, as not to bo described bv aiiv modern surgeons, who laugh at the very term speaking of it as a mere application of a strip of adhesive plaster. In the suUmi sicca, so called in opposition to the suUra crucnta, where blood followed the needle, some adhesive plaster was spread on linen, having a selvage. A piece of this was applied along each side of the wound (the se] vages being opposed to each other), and then drawn together by sewing them with a common neeJlo without bloodshed. Hence the term S«.