OI'IUM. 390 nisli respiratory action, to benumb the cutaneous respiratory (rellox) nerves, to cause a collection of f'cretion in the lungs, and diminish the power of its expulsion. Still it is very valuable in spasm of the bronchial tubes, in pleurisy with care, and in phthisis more particularly. No remedy will in ^onie cases give greater comfort, and apparently sustain lung-power so much as opium. The Digestive System is usually affected some- what disagreeably by opiiun given by the mouth for an atTection of any part of the body. The mouth and throat are rendered dry, though less so than by atropine; there is thirst, the bowels are confined, their evacuation is rendered of a lighter colour from deficiency of bile, and nausea, sickness, and loss of appetite may result for a time. As a rule, all or nearly all these ill effects upon the digestive system are obviated by giving the opium by the hypodermic plan (see Subailaneous Injection) ; still, whether administered by mouth, by rectum, or by the cellular tissue, opitmi acts most beneficially in cases of spasm of the bowels (colic\of the stcimach (vomiting),intus-susception, &c.; it allays the pain of many intestinal inflamma- tions and affections ; and is at times the only medicine which will check diarrhoea. Upon the Urinary Organs opium has not always the same effect ; it usually diminishes the amount of the secretion of the kidneys, and causes it to be turbid and high coloured. It diminishes the sensi- bility <»nd contractility of the ureters and bladder; consequently it is of great use in spasm of these parts, and also in allaying any irritability about the urino-genital organs. There are many other objects besides thoseabove enumerated in which opium, though not the sheet- anchor, as in delirium tremens, in mania, and some other diseases, yet is invaluable as a re- medy. In phagedfena for instance, the " ulcera- tion " is often amenable to opium alone, and a large amount can be given in this disease without producing any apparent systemic effect until the phagedsena is checked. It is of great use in some venereal affections. lis admiiiis'valion.—Opium may be adminis- tered in many ways ; thus, it may be given by the month, by the rectum, by the skin, by the cellular tissue, and by local application to various parts, as the eye, the ear, the os uteri, &c., by the skin, as by lotion enepidermically, or embrocation iatralepti- caliy, or to a blistered surface endermically, or by injection beneath the skin hypodermically. This last is the best plan for all cases of urgency, such as of insomnia, of mania, delirium tremens, tetanus, severe pain and spasms, as of retention ; also in those cases in w hich the stomach is upset by the use of opium by the mouth. For indeed all cases in which rapidity and certainty of action are espe- cially indicated. For local pains, if superficial, the endermic method may be used, or lotion or liniment, rather than derange the stomach ; when, however, that organ is not very susceptible the pre- parations of opium may be given by the mouth, fjpium may be given in the solid form in doses of from one-quarter of a grain to one, two, or three grains. (The medium dose is i to 2 grains, the full or large dose Iwn to fire grains. Pt-reira.) So given, it is often very useful in urgent vomiting, snd in other cases in which the tincture and other forms are instantly rejected. For encmata With opium, care is required, and the dose should the first time be smaller than by the mouth, as absorption from the rectum is very rapid. On OpiHiii-eatini/.—Thh practice is carried on to a greater extent in Turkey and Persia than in any other part of the world. The following ex- tract is from one of the best accounts given of this habit:— "The causes leading to the use of opium are many, and among them may be reckoned the fol- lowing : long-continued diarrhcea, as a remedy for which opium is used in the first instance, and its use afterwards continued as a habit ; chronic coughs, in which opium is also used as a popular remedy ; habitual drunkards also frequently have recourse to opium as a new stimulus after they have abjured wine. Persons holding high offices or dignities in the state, have also recourse to opium, when the preservation of their character forbids them the use of wine ; some very strict believers also take opium as a restorative in cases of great exertion, as the Tartars (couriers), who travel with astonishing celerity. Opium-eaters generally begin with doses of from half a grain to two grains, and gradually increase the quantity till it amounts to two drachms or more a day ; they usually take the opium in pills, but avoid drinking any water after having swallowed them, as this is said to produce violent colic: to make it more palatable, it is sometimes mixed with syrups or thickened juices, but in this form is less intoxicating, and resembles mead. . . . The effect of the opium manifests itself one or two hours after it has been taken, and lasts for five or six hours, according to the dose taken, and the idiosyncrasy of the subject. In persons accus- tomed to take it, it produces a higher degree of animation, which the Theriaki (opium-eaters) re- present as the acme' of happiness. "The habitual opium-eater is instantly recognised by his appearance. A total attenuation of body, a withered yellow countenance, a lame gait, a bend- ing of the spine, frequently to such a degree as to assume a circular form, and glossy, deep-sunken eyes, betray him at the first glance. The digestive organs are in the highest degree disturbed, the sufferer eats scarcely anything, and has hardly one evacuation in a week : his mental and bodily powers are destroyed—he is impotent. By degrees as the habit becomes more confirmed, his strength continues decreasing, the craving for the stimulus becomes even greater, and to produce the desired effect the doses must constantly be augmented." (Oppeuheim, Brit, and For. Med. Rev. vol. i'v p. 394.) On the Tolerance of Opium hij the System.—But although such are the symptoms produced by opium upon people who habitually take it without nnv necessity for it in such large quantities as two or three drachms a day, still opium may be taken under certain circumstances for many years in daily doses far exceeding the ordinary average—in doses in fact, varying from two or three grains to niiu'ty or one hundred. One patient had for fifteen years previous to his coming under niy care taken as his average dose Ihirlij grains of morphine dailv, e(|uivaleut to about ninety of solid opiiun. Not- withstanding that he suffered almost incessantly from neuralgin, he had the aspect of a man in fiiir (U- good health, lie had a good colour, and mani- fested none of those dire effects or symptoms described above as following the habitual use of