r STRICTURE, (from >tringo, to bind.) A contracted state of some part of a tube, or duct. (See UiiETHKA, Strictures of; CEsophagus, &c. Rectum, &c.) Stricture also means, in cases of strangulated hernia, the narrowest part of the opening or passage through which the bowels pro- trude. (See Hernia.) STRUMA, (from struo, to heap up.) Scrofula, ° o^o^'"'"- "^''^ ^'"^"^ ^^f- (See Scrofula.) brRYCHNIA. Its salts, and the extract of mix vomica, have been found useful in paraple- gia, amaurosis, some forms of deafness, and a few other paralytic affections, from disease or exter- nal injury. The endermic use of strychnia is noticed in the article Amaurosis. « Strychnia in all Its forms, pure or combined (says Dr. A. T. Thomson), is a powerful excitant, displaying its jnlluence, first by an increasing energy of the whole system; and next chiefly on those tracts of the medulla spinalis which give origin to the motor nerves. The nerves of sensation, however, are also involved in this action; for, along with the muscular contractions and convulsions which supervene, the surface of the body is so morbidly sensitive, as to be sensible of the slightest impres- sions; even the motion of the air becomes a source of uneasiness, nearly as considerable as in hydrophobic cases." (See Mem. of Materia Me- dica SfC, p. 186, edit. 2.) [Strychnia is supposed by Brown-Sequard to act as an excitant by increas- ing the vascularity of the nervous centres, and especially the spinal cord. It is, therefore, to be avoided m cases where the symptoms have an in- flammatory character, and which may be assumed to be already byperajmic. The dose of strychnia IS from ^ to of a grain. The British Pharma- copoeia contains a liquor strychnae, strength -A- of a grain in 10 minims.] STUMPS. P. G. Van Hoorne, in 1803, pub- lished a valuable work giving an account of the changes which occur in the texture of stumps after amputation, and particularly in the bone. De lis, qum inparlihus viembriprceserlim osseis ampuiaiioiie vulneratis, notanda sunt. (Lugd. Bat. 1803,4to.) In the 16th vol. of the Med. Chir. Trans., Mr. Lang- staff has published many interesting remarks on the healthy and morbid condition of stumps. Accord- ing to his investigations, after the effusion and or- ganisation of lymph in the healing process, " the absorbents remove such superfluous parts of the muscles as are likely to retard the progress of cicatrisation of the integuments. After this period, the nutrient arteries of the periosteal covering of the divided bone, or bones, and the medullary parts, deposit lymph; a medium of cellular tissue is produced, which unites to the organised intcgumen- tal surface, and these together form a cushion, as a protection to the end of the stump." The asperities occasioned by the division of the bone are re- moved by absorption; a deposit of osseous matter takes place round its edges, forming a junction with the new bony substance thrown out by the vesselsof the medullary texture; and the absorb- ents, if not interrupted by a diseased state of the stump, produce a regular rounded appearance of the extremity of the bone, in which merely aper- tures are left for the comnuuiication of the nutrient arteries, veins, and nerves of the shaft of the bone with its coverings. ' " Should the surfaces of the amputated part not regularly unite by tho first intention, nor,by the STUMPS. C29 second, and there be inflammation afl^ecting the divided nerves, then a morbid action ia established, which occasions the face of the stump to ulcerate or mortify; frequently causing a portion of the extremity of the bone to project, which occasionally becomes carious, and should be taken off," In other instances, osseous deposit takes place round the edges of the sawn bones in a degree amounting to exostosis; and "sometimes a spiculum of bone projects horizontally, generally taking the direc- tion of the artery, vein, and nerves of the limb, which thus become implicated with the bony de- posit; and sometimes (adds Mr. Langstaff) I have found a large spiculum of bone, with a very sharp point, taking an oblique direction, and con- nected with a muscle, occasioning morbid changes in its fibres, and being a source of great suffering to the patient. In all such stumps, I have invariably found the nerves greatly enlarged at their extremi- ties, giving them a ganglionic appearance, and gene- rally firmly adherent to the surface of the stump, and frequently in union with spicula of bone." On cutting through these bulbous extremities of the nerves, Mr. Langstaff did not notice any marks of enlargement of their natural structure, 'the thick- ening appearing to have been occasioned wholly by the deposition of lymph, the effect of inflamma- tion in the cellular tissue covering the neurilemma. Mr. Langstaff gives the particulars of numerous preparations and cases in confirmation of his state- ments. In amputation, he prefers the flap opera- tion to the circular, cutting obliquely through the integuments, muscles, vessels, and nerves, and tak- ing especial care to preserve a sufficient quantity of skin to cover the end of the bone. He notices the bad consequences of leaving too much muscle in the circular operation, in impeding the adhesive process. « If (says he), in performing the flap operation, a sufficient quantity of skin be not pre- served to cover the stump, and the ends of the nerves are likely to be included, while cicatrisation IS going on, I should have no hesitation in short- ening them by cutting off a portion of each." The frequent necessity, however, for cutting the large nerves twice, is considered by many sur- geons—in which number I wish to be included— as one of the principal objections to flap amputa- tions, more especially of the arm. Thus, Sir Charles Bell observes, " Of all the conditions to which man is subject, there is no state of suffering more severe than that produced by the engagement of a nerve in a stump; and therefore I say, that it is most important that the nerve should be directly divided across, and not obliquely torn out. You cannot se- cure this effect, unless you make a free and decided division of the muscles. When you pic^rce the limb with a great catling knife, and put it close on the bone, and draw it out obliquely, to make the flap you cut the nerve longer than the other parts. The nerve is firm, but very elastic; it is not so easily cut through as muscles. Being elastic, it goes before the edge of the knife; and, if you look carefully to an amputation performed in this way, you will find that the nerve hangs out, that it becomes neces- sary to draw it out, and cut it again. What do you say to cutting the nerve a second time, by way nf proof that this operation isattendod with less pain?" (See Loml. Med. Vaz. vol. xv. p. 95.) In post mor- tem examinations, Molinelli and Morgngni hmg ago found the ends of nerves, which had been cut tbrougli, enlarged. Lower and Arncmana