the dAris, has been insisted on by most nf the great authorities on lithotrit}'. M. Civiale in his last pamphlet {Creation d'un Sernice Special, ^c. Paris, 1864) observes: ' Almost always at the ter- mination of the sitting I pass one or more injec- tions into the bladder by me<ins of a full-sized catheter with large orifices at the extremity. This 13 a method which I have employed ever since the commencement of my practice with advantage, and which has been adopted by a great number of other surgeons. These injections seldom give rise to any pain, and are useful in cases where the bladder is disposed to contract with force, more especially whenever any considerable portion of the calculus has been pulverised during the sitting. A portion of the debris is thus expelled with the injection, and the danger of their accumulation in the urethra is diminished.' Of late, however, some writers on this subject have advocated a different practice. Mr. Thompson as a general rule does not approve of the preliminary injection of the bladder, considering that ' sufficient benefit does not accrue from it to compensate for the ad- vantage sacrificed by not adhering to one of the great principles before enunciated, viz., always to effect our object with the smallest amount of in- strumental interference.' An atonic .state of the bladder, according to the same author, constitutes an e.\-ceptional case. {Practical Lithotomy and Lithoirity, 1863.) Mr. Pollock, of St. George's Hospital, states that hehasforsome time discontinued the use of injections prior to the operation of lithotrity, believing it to be not only a superfluous interference ' ut an unneces- sary prolongation of operative manipulation. If the bladder will not hold more than a small quantity of urine, it will probably not hold more tepid water; and so to the operator, the evil is equally balanced between the capacity of holding the one or the other. {Lancet, March 12, 1864.) Mr. T. P. Teale, of Leeds, also disapproves of the preliminary injection of the bladder. Before the operation, he desires the patient to allow his bladder to become as fully distended with urine as it will easily bear, and states that by observing this precaution he very rarely has to inject the bladder with water. The irritation caused by the introduction of a second instrument is thus avoided, and he imagines that the bladder is more tolerant of the presence of urine than of the foreign fluid water. {Lan- re!, March 26, 1864.) On the other hand, Mr. I harles Hawkins says that he has found the blad- 'Icr more readily retains the water injected, than the urine that may be in the bladder when the litho- trite is introduced. (See Article Lithotrity in Ilnlmes's Syst. of SiHy., vol. iv.) Mr. Fergusson says that for twenty years or more he has rarely used injections as a preliminary step, fie tliinks the presence of a large quantity of fluid II objectionable, and increases the difficulty of se- curing the stone. He tiierefore often draws off some of the urine with a catheter, when he fancies tlie quantity too large, taking care of course that i nough should be left to enable the blades of the iithotrite to be used with facility. (See Report of Lectures delivered at the Coll. of Surgeons, Lancet ■Mine 17, 186.0.) ' With regard to washing out the bladder after the iirst sitting, Mr. Thompson lays it down as a rule tliat, ' on no account should the bladder bo injected or washed out after the first sitting; because, in the LITHOTRITY. 2,57 first place, it is on this occasion particularly desir- able to avoid unnecessary irritation;and secondly, because the first object being merely to make frag- ments, no great amount of small detritus capable of removal would probably be found ' (1. c. p. 182). There can bene doubt about the correctness of the rule, that the smaller the amount of instrumental interference the better ; but there can be little doubt also that the de'bris of the earlier sittings are those which are most likely to cause irritation. Whether the one inconvenience does not greatly outweigh the other is a question for experience to decide; and it will require more than the experience of a single surgeon to establish the re- vival of a practice which prevailed in the infancy of lithotrity. A very ingenious and effectual apparatus for washing out the bladder has been devised by Mr. Clover. It consists of a glass cylinder, one end of which is attached to the neck of an india-rubber bottle, and the other closed by a stopper perforated by a tube which fits over the end of the catheter, and which projects about an inch into the cylinder. The instrument is filled with warm water, and after the urine has been drawn off it is applied to the catheter, and the bladder injected by pressing the elastic bottle. On removing the pressure the water is drawn back rapidly, bringing with it the small particles of stone which happen to be near the eye of the catheter. The pieces fall to the bottom of the glass cylinder, and are at once seen by the operator, but are not re-injected when the bottle is again compressed. Mr. Fergusson advocates the immediate removal of the fragments by means of lithotrites and scoops of small size. The ' scoops' which he uses are in- struments of the nature of forceps, but with the blades shaped and moving like a Iithotrite, and va- rying in size from a No. 3 to a No. 6 catheter; with these he seizes the fragments and withdraws them through the urethra. ' The lithotrites gene- rally in use, he observes, ' can be withdrawn from the bladder only when sluit. If a fragment rests between the blades, it must be comminuted before these can be closed. The same remarks are appli- cable to ordinary scoops. Comminution must be so effectual that the blades may be closed or nearly so, and all that can be brought away is the sm.all bruised portion held between the blades. With a small Iithotrite and scoop such as I am in the habit of using, a fragment of considerable size may remain betwixt the blades, and vet the united size or diameter may readily pass or be drawn alonir the urethra. In the last sixty cases I have adopt ed this practice generally, and with few exceptions have every reason to be satisfied.' (See/.a«ce/,vol. ii'. 1864 p. 4. ' I have generally, as a first step intro- duced a Iithotrite of considerable size, equal to a No tU or 11 bougie, and broken the stone into various fragments. Next I have taken the smaller Iitho- trite, above referred to, attacked these fragments and then have used the small scoop with the object of removing several fragments, so that the patient might have satisfactory evidence that the stone Had been crushed. In a few days after the small crusher and scoop have again been used—particu- arly the scoop—wherewith the fragments which havebeen found sufliciently small have been extract ed singly, or two or three at a time. Thus instead ol waiting for the spontaneous escape of the frair ments, a process usually both uncertain and tardy