scuo rnlargement of one or two of the inguinal glands might be perceived, they were not at all pain- ful, and, according to the patient's account, they sometimes entirely subsided. The general health was niixleriiteiy good —the pulse 104 — tongue clean—appetite good, and the bowels were regular. The diluted solution of the chloride of soda was applied, and aperient medicine prescribed. Oct. 3. Hoping that the disease had not j^et seri- ously implicated the inguinal glands, and that the Bwelliiig of them was merely from irritation, and a miinual examination of the abdomen, joined with a consideraticm of the man's general heallh, having convinced me that the lumbar glands were sound, I decided to remove the ulcerated part of the scro- tum, and indeed the greater portion of it; for theie ■were several warty indurations at various points of it, more or less distant from the ulcer. The testes having been held up by Mr. Qiiain, and a catheter introduced to inform us of the precise situation of the urethra in the performance of the deeper inci- sions, two semilunar incisions were made, which joining together circumscribed the disease, which was then carefully dissected out. Owing to an adhesion and induration of the left tunica vaginalis, a part of it was necessarily removed, and the testis exposed. No vessels required ligature. As the loss of substance was too great to admit of the edges of the wound being brought together, the pirt was simply covered with water dressing, and the patient conveyed back to his bed, with direc- t'ons that he should take an anodyne, if he suf- fered much pain. Oct. 22. Went on'without any untoward event till this da}', when some tenderness was experienced in the right groin, followed b}- an erysipelatous blush of the skin, which, however, subsided under the beneficial influence of purgatives and cold ap- plications. The case then advanced favourably for three or four days; at the end of whichi found that ilie patient had suffered great pain in the right groin, where the skin had become reddened, and the glands swollen and i;idurated; whether from mere irritation, or a commencement of the disease, seemed now doubtful. By means of the repeated applications of leeches, and the use of calomel aperients, and other antiphlojistic means, how- ever, the inflammation was soon reduced, and an abscess which formed healed np without difficulty, and the patient left the hospital cured. This case exemplifies several well ascertained facts relative to chimiiej'-sweeper's cancer, or cancer scroti. 1. The usual commencement of the disease, about or a little before puberty; its occurrence in younger subjects being so rare, that Pott never noticed it but in one inataiice shown to him by the late Su- James Earle. 2. Ttie usual beginning of the disease at the anterior, or inferior part of the scrotum, iu the form of a small lump, or induration. 3. The painful, ragged, ill-looking nature of the ulcer, surrounded by hard rising edges. 4. The occasional presence of one or more in- durations, fleshy growths, or soot warts, on other points of the scrotum. When these are very small and superficial, with a narrow base, I be- lieve that they are sometimes picked off, and that the parts may then heal. In other instances, they reach more deeply, and advance to cancerous ulcerali(m. . 6. The absolute localisation of the diiease, until ruM. it has 60 implicated the spermatic chord, the in- euinal, or lumbar glands, or viscera, that the same kind of disease has been extended to tnem. That is to say, it is not dependent upon, or originally connected with, that unfavourable kind of consti- tution which attends ordinary cancer; and there- fore if the whole of the disease admits of being cut away, the patient will not suffer a relapse. This is so true, that patients have recovered perma- nently, although it has been necessary to remove a part of, or the whole of the te-tis. Sir Astley Cooper informed me, that he has in some instances taken away a portion of the testicle together with the diseased part of the scrotum. In my case, a portion of the tunica vaginalis was removed. [In the present day, the chimney-sweepers' cancer is considered by most surgeons in every respect ana- logous to epithelioma in other parts.] (SeeCANCER.) See Pott's Works, vol. iii, edit, by Earle. Also It'. Simmorts's Obs. on Lithotomy, to wliicti are added OI)S. on Cliimney-sweepers' Cancer. 8vo. Manchester, 1808. IJ. Earle, On Chimney-sweepers' Cancer, iu Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 29fi, &c. Beiij. Trovers, Op. cit. vol. xii. p. 344. Sir Astlev Cooper, On the Structure and Diseases of the Testis, 4to. Lond. I8.i0. SCROTUM, Sarcomatous Thichening and En- largement of. The investigations of Baron Lar- rey lead him to believe, that cases of enormous growth of the scrotum are endemial in warm countries, or, at least, that they are seldom ob- served in cold climates; since most of the exam- ples, which have been seen in Europe, came from Asia and Africa. With the exception of the case, on which Mr. Liston operated, the scrotal tumor of Delacroix, formerly minister of external rela- tions, is considered by Larrey as perhaps the only well authenticated instance of the origin of such a disease in our own climate; and it was also much smaller than the instances related in the Ephe- merides German, for the year 1692, in the sur- ijical writings of Dionis, in the Uth vol. of the Bibliotheque de Me'decine, and those which Larrey met with in Egypt. The smallest of these latter, alter they had attained their full size, weighed more than 25 kilograms (hetween 60 and 70 pounds). Many instances of this curious disease are recorded, particularly by Dr. Cheston, Dr. Tit- ley, and the celebrated Sandifort. I remember in Mr. Abernethy's museum a considerable fleshy sulistance, which was a portion of hypertrophied hcrotum. The tumor, removed by Mr. Liston, is believed by him to be the only case which ever occurred in a resident nntive of these islands. (See Liston a Practical Surgery, p. 289.) In the cases which Larre}- had an opportunity of seeing in Egypt, the fle»hy mass, into which the scrotum was converted, was broad below, and sus- pended from the pubes by a sort of pedicle. '' Ex- ternally the tumor presents rugosities of different sizes, separated by particular lines, or sinuses, to which the mucous cryptae and roots of the liairs correspond. Upon a large portion of its surface, especially when the case is of long standing, yellowish scaly crusts are always seen, the detacli- nient of which constantly leaves so many small herpetic ulcers, emitting an ichorous discharge. The tumor is indolent, and hard at some pomts, but softish at others. It may be handled and pressed in dilfereiit directions, without the least pain. The patient is only incommoded by its