iiiailo of cliamnis leatlior, and ho ami tlio lalo Dr. I lorsej' usually roUotl their ligatures on a slab to Make them hard and round. The advantages, l oposed by the ligatures of Dr. Pliysick, are that, leing made of animal matter, the knot, which is ill tiiatis left in the wound, will serve long enough to obliterate the artery, and be speedily removed liy the absorbents, thus avoiding the difficulty arising from a foreign bodj', however minute. Tliese ligatures have been used in this country to rent extent, and Sir Astley Cooper has demon- Irated their superiority in his own operations. (Sir Astley Cooper has since relinquisiied them.) Dr. Hartshorn used strips of parchment for his liga- tures. My friend, Dr. II. Ct. Jamieson, Professor I'f Surgery in ^Vashington Medical College, Bal- timore, has for a series of years been employing the animal ligature in .in extensive surgical prac- tice; a nimiber of his operations I have witnessed, lie has used it in many amputations of the limbs lud the mamma: he has tied the carotid, the iliac, I lie femoral, the radial, the posterior tibial, the l ermatic, and other arteries, with the hiickslan i/ulurcs ; and, in no instance, had secondary hiE- iiiorrhago occurred; and he states that he has never <i'en anything of his ligatures, and, of course, the wounds have generally healed by the first intention." (Sec Amer. ed. of tliisDktiomay, art. Ligature.) Dr. Juraieson's principles are entirely different iVom those which influence all the most distin- ;dished practitioners in Great Britain, and which pear to me to have been the means of rendering condary haemorrhage, after the application of a iiper ligature, rather an imcommon event. Dr. unieson is an advocate for tying the artery with very soft buckskin ligature, and a little broader .in the thickness of the skin, taking care not to • it too tight. He states, as the result of his ' servation and experiments upon sheep, dogs, id other animals, that a capsule will surround the t;ature, if the capillary vessels be [not much dis- iiirbed; or the vessel will be surrounded by an ;iliundanco of lymph, and the ligature dissolved. I .ike Scarpa, he prefers flat ligatures; but, by the iise of buckskin, has no need to remove the liga- tiires on the fourth day, as the Italian professor ad. (See Dr. Reese, Op. cit.; and //. G. Jamieson, I Medical, Recorder, No. xxxvii. January, 1827.) ff any surgeons here were likely to become ;iflmirersof flat tape like ligatures, I would remind i^mofthe evils formerly attending their use in 1 London Hospitals, and of Diipnytrcn's ob- rvation:—" It has been proved," says ho, " that if^ eflicacy of the action of ligatures is inde- |i':ndent of their flat form, because, however broad 'liey may be, they assume a roundish shape when L'htened." (See Clinicjue Chir. t. iv. p. 39!J.) Dr. Veitch, while doing duty, in the years 1 ;:0.'i-'l-.5, as surgeon of the Royal Naval IIos- |iital, at Plymouth, had frequent occasion to 1' mark the danger of large Hat ligatures, then ' mployed for the stoppage of bleeding; and his r. (lections led him to try very small ones, so that ' lie quantity of extraneous matter in the wound, (d in contact with the secured blood-vessels, light be reduced. "This improvement (says I ir. Veitch), which extends itself to all the opera- lions in surgery, I carried to an extent that no one II ls usefully exceeded; not only by the diminu- ii'in of foreign matter in securing the divided niRE. 1,05 arlcries, but by the distribution of these ligatures in the wounds, inflicted by the operations of sur- gery, and which distribution of the ligatures, com- liiuod with their form, brought this part of surgery as near perfection as it is capable of being. The sufferance of foreign matter in the wound, by cut.- ting olF the dependent ligatures, and allowing the knots only to remain on the arteries, and attempt- ing to heal the wounds over them, has not been found to answer. The mode of arresting hfemor- rhagc, which I adopted, was carried into effect before the book of Dr. Jones was published, and without any knowledge of his experiments. I was not aware, at the time I so successfully em- ployed the single round ligatures, of the change that the artery undergoes by their action,and which knowledge led Dr. Jones very properly to recom- mend around ligature: but, I may here remark, that such recommendation was not sufficiently ex- plicit; for it left the surgeon at liberty to introduce as much foreign matter in a round, as had pre- viously been done in a flat form, in securing ar- teries, &c. My experience and reasoning led me to recommend a small ligature; and its nature and form were not left to conjecture, but, clearly laid down; and the iniroductio7t of tliispractice to siir- i/en/, by which its limits have been extended, is, I think, 7mqiiestionaUij dtie to me.'"' Dr. Veitch trans- mitted his first Essay on the Ligature of Arteries to the editor of the Edinh. Med. and Surg. Journ, in 1805, though it was not published till 1806; Dr. Jones's work came out in 1804. I am glad to have this opportunity of mentioning the claim of Dr. Veitch to the honour of the above-mentioned very important improvement. (See his Ohs. on the Liyaitire of Arteries, Secondary Ilcemorrhage, and AmptUation at the Hip-joint, 8vo. Lond. 1824.) The evils of reserve ligatures are so generally known, that no chance exists of their ever being resorted to again by any well-educated surgeon. M. Delpech, once a zealous advocate for them, entirely relinquished them many years previously to his lamented assassination, and became firmly convinced of the advantages of following the practice dictated by the results of Dr. Jones's in- vestigations. Some surgeons adopt the practice of removing neither end of the ligature, when a large arterj', such as the carotid, external iliac, or sub- clavian is tied. But if care be taken to apply the ligature with due tightness, this method can never be advisable, Mr. Guthrie considers a ligature, composed of one thread of dentist's silk, well waxed, to bo sufliciently strong for any artery of moderate size ; and is of opinion, that two threads will be finmd strong enough by the most cautious. " The advantages (says he) to be derived from the application of a small ligatm'e, from the least possible disturbance of the surroimd- ing parts, and from absolute quietude, whilst .the healing processes are going on, must be so obvious as to require no further observation." Mr. Guthrie has adduced several cases in which secondary hasmorrhage was the con- sequence of motion of the limb at too early a period, and of undue interference with the liga- ture. " When secondary Iiasniorrhage occurs to any extent (he observes) either through ulceration of the artery, or from extension of ulceration, or sloughing of surrounding parts to it, a ligature must be placed upon it nearer to the heart, and ns