the wound lie inflamed, or tliere lie some decided internal inflammation present, or the patient is in a state of plethora. The powerfully relaxing eflfect of tobacco cly- sters, in hernia and enteritis, suggested a trial of them in tetanus. This plan is strongly recom- mended by Dr. O'Beirne (sec DuMm Hospital liepor/s, vol. iii.) and Dr. Anderson, of Port Spain, Trinidad. (See Ediub. Med. Chir. Travs. vol. i. p. 187.) In one very acute case the plan was tried by Mr. Earle, but it only afforded a tem- porary alleviation of the spasms, and, as it caused severe agitation, it was discontinued. According to Sir James Macgregor, tobacco civsters, tried in the advanced stage of the disease, seemed to have no effect. He considers tobacco fume, however, as deserving further trial. _ A remarkable case is recorded by Dr. Philips, m which the jaw suddenly fell, upon the exhibi tion of an enonia with oil of turpentine. (See J\/ed. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 65.) According to Baron Larrey, frictions, with oily liniments, as recommended by some authors, were tried by the French surgeons at Cairo, but they produced no change in the state of the dis- ease. We learn, from the same authority, that the application of blisters to the throat also failed Jn checking the symptoms. The Barbadoes tar, mentioned by CuIIen, electricity, the colchicum autumnale, recommended by Dufresnoy, and several other means formerly in repute for tetanus, have now been fully proved by experience to possess little or no claim to this character. In consequence of the general failure of all re- medies hitherto tried in acute tetanus, Mr. Mor- gan proposes to introduce into the system a sub- stance which has the property of producing on the nervous system a condition directly opposite to that which is developed in tetanus, viz. paraly- sis. In support of the plausibility of this scheme, lie adduces some experiments, in which the artifi- cial tetanus, induced by inserting into the wound a poison called " chatic," and obtained from Java, was removed or abated by the counteraction of ticu nas, a North American poison, [The Woorara or Curara is formed of the juice of the Strychnia toxifera, and said to be mixed with the poison of the serpent. It is a very violent poison, and speedily fatal when inocu- lated ; Dr, Harley considers that its value con- «ists in its peculiar power of paralysing the motory ■ iriiich sooner than the sensory nerves.' Its action 111 tetanus is to allay the spasm ; you try to kiii'P the spasms from killing the patient by ficir violence, until the morbid state calling them ito play has exhausted itself, Demme {Schweix. hrJiri/t jilr Ihilk.W. S, .SSC, 1804) has col- ■d twenty-two cases treated by this means, of these eight recovered ; some of the r were chronic and subacute cases. It is lally employed in solution over a raw sur- I ' made by a blister, or injected suhcutaneously. J!i-ca recommends its exhibition by mouth iilili'-iigh it is stated that when administered nit 'rnally its effects are scarcely sensilile. (See nl.H.i aiticle " Curare," in the AW. Diet, de Mid tt Chir. vol. x. p. 548 ; 18G9.) i lie Calabar bean in its action in suflicient - paralyses the voluntary muscles, the very mn.scles wliich are spasmodically contracted in vol., n. TETANUS, 721 tetanus. Hence the prospect of counteracting the influence of the disease by that of the poison. i)r. Watson {Lancet, March 2, 1067) has given a' full detail of two cases of traumatic tetanus successfully treated in this way; and in the Lancet for April, 18C8, other cases with remarks are offered. The Cannabis indica in the form of tincture has been found serviceable, as a hypnotic anodyne, antispasmodic and anaesthetic. Professor Miller has recorded three cases of cure, but in the ma- jority of instances it has failed. _ The tincture of aconite in doses from five to eight minims every two hours has been attended with success (BrilisJi. and Foreiqn Med. Chir. Rev. 1859). Nicotine has been used with success (Lancet, November, 1867.] From the share which the state of the medulla spinalis is conceived to have in the production of tile disease, the practice of applying a blister the whole length of the spine has been derived. Dr. Reid is an advocate for this practice, combined with the employment of powerful cathartics. (See Trans, of King's and Queen's College of Physicians, vol. i. p. 122.) The same plan, dressing the part with tartar emetic ointment, and purging, are the chief ^remedies advised by some others. (See Syme's Paper in Glasgow Med. Journ. vol. iii.) After advening to the opposite modes of stimu- ant and antiphlogistic treatment, sometimes fol- owed in America, Dr. Rees informs us that of late the practice in that country has very much changed, extensive vesication, especially on the region of the spine, being very generally relied upon, and with singular success. "One of the most severe cases of tetanus (says he) I ever witnessed, arose from a gunshot wound, a load of shot having entered the back and penetrated into the dorsal and lumbar vertebi-cB. The dis- ease speedily assumed the form of opisthotonos, and was treated by the application of caustic pot- ash to the spine, from the cervical vertebrse to the sacrum. About an inch in width of the skin was destroyed all the way down, and the only internal medicines relied on were prussic acid, in large doses, and elaterium as a cathartic. The case had a successful termination. (See Amer. Med. Re- corder for 1825, and Rees's ed. of this Dictionary. part ii. p. 346.) Cupping and leeching the spine have also been resorted to, and occasionally found useful. I have known one or two cases of chronic tetanus get well during the free exhibition of tar- tarised antimony, but I have more frequently seen It fail. [Subcutaneous injections of sulphate of atropia have been used and followed by success, (Gaz Med. dc Lyon, May, 18C0.) Chloroform administered by inhalation and in- ternally has been very extensively tried. It allays ilie intensity of the spasms, and has been followed ui some instances with success, but in general it cannot be depended upon. Applications of aconitiiio, belladonna, conium veratria, &c., have been tried, so also Galvanism' and electricitj* with doubtful benefit.] Alfred Poland. Consult Hippocrates (leMorbis Populnribus, lib v et vu. CalvLi Aurclianuii, De Morbis acutis. Med' Obs. and Inq. vol. i. p. 1, h7 ; vol. vi. p. 143. llHUtn,', ^ A.