802 " TUMOR. nearly gloViilav, and, when seated on the head, feeb very firm, but upon the face they are attended, with a fluctuation, more or less obscure. The skin coverinc; them is generally uuinflamed; but it is now and then streaked with blood-vessels, _ which are larger than those of the surrounding integu- ments. "-In the centre of the tumor, on the skin, -it often happens that in its early state a black or dark-coloured spot may be seen, which sometimes continues through the whole course of the disease. In general, they are unattended with pain, are never in -themselves dangerous, and only reqnire removal from the parts in which they occur, ou ac- wmt of the unseemly appearance they produce. They move' readily within the cellular membrane, if tliey are free from inflammation, but the skin in general does not easily move over them." ^^^'^^• ■Cooper, Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 230.) The greatest number of encysted tumors, which this «sperienced surgeon has met with in the same individual, was sixteen, situated upon the head; ■■and he has seen nine in another patient, as many -ns which number on one person I have seen myself. "Four, five, and six, as Sir Asiley remarks, are not uncommon. The largest which he has ever seen ■was equal in size to an ordinary cocoa-nnt, and grew upon the head; but in general they are not more than one or two inches in diameter. He con- siders them in some degree hereditary, as he has •-o.rteu heard a patient observe, "I have several - sv/ellings upon my head, and my father (or my vniother) had several." They also frequently occur ■in several members of the same family. (P. 231.) According to Sir Astley Cooper, when encysted ■Jtumcrrs are dissected, some part of their surface is found firmly adhering to the skin, while other -pans are connected to it merely by the cellular anembrane. The cyst itself is embedded more or 4eBS deeply in the cellular membrane, and its Ihickness is different in different parts ef the bodj". X)n the face, or near the outer canthus, the cyst is ■Tery thin; but on the back it is much thicker, and .^on the head it is so thick and firm that it retains ■'..si'fg form after the discharge of its contents, and is 80 elastid- lhat, after being compressed, it readily expands aijain to its former size. Within the cyst Sir Astley' Cooper remarks, there is a lining of cuticle^- i^hich adheres to its interior, and several desquamations, of the same substance, are formed ■.Within the first lining. If the vessels of the cyst are injected, they are found to be numerous, but ot email size. The cysts are occasionally met with in an ossified state. {Sicrgical Essays, part ii. p. 23-.., .233.) The investigations of Sir Astley Cooper ;prove that many encysted tumors arise from the enlargement of the follicles, or glandular pores in consequence of the obstruction of their orihce. '(P 236.) This view furnishes another considera- .tion against the view taken of the formation of tumors by Dr. Baron. Sir Astley Cooper was so obliging as to present jme with two preparations, in which this origm of two superficial encysted swellings is very manifest. These specimens 1 have placed in University Col- lege Museum. 1 have also to thank him for his kindness in showing me two cases, in which the fact of there being an opening in the skin, commu- nicating with the cavity of the swelling, and giving occasional exit to its contents, was completely evident. I frequently meet a surgeon who has for some years an encysted tumor on the had cheek, and in whom the small black point on the centre' is very conspicuous. Of course, it is not in- tended that this doctrine, concerning the origin of an encysted tumor, should extend to the forma- tion of cysts in general, which often present them- selves, not only with great diversity of structure, but under circumstances in which their beginning could not possibly be accounted for by the ob- struction of the orifices of any sebaceous follicles. As all Sir A. Cooper's opinions on surgical questions are deservedly valuable, I subjoin the advice which he has given, founded upon the preceding doctrine. If the follicle can be seen only as a black spot, filled with hardened seba- ceous matter, he recommends a probe to be passed into it, and the sebaceous matter to be pressed out of the tumor, which is done with little inconve- nience. But, if the contents cannot be pressed out without such violence as would create inflam- mation, he says, that the best plan is to make the opening larger. Other surgeons have tried to cure encysted .tumors by pricking them with needles, and squeezing out their contents ; by opening them more freely, and filling them with lint, or charpie {Delpech, Cliniqm de Chirurgie, t. ii. 1828) ; or by applying stimulating and discutient applications to them. However, some of these plans mostly fail, tind the others have been known occasionally to convert the case into a terrible dis- ease, in which a frightful fungus shoots out from the inside of the cyst, attended with immense paia and irritation, and even proving fital. (bee Ahernfthfs Surgical Observations, r304, p. ^i-) Similar dangerous fungous diseases may also arise, whenever the surgeon, in cutting out encysted tumors, leaves any part of the cyst behind. The most advisable method, I believe, is to hav« recourse to the knife, before an encysted tuinorhas attained any considerable size. However, it it be large at the time of the operation being done, a portion of the skin must be taken away with the swelling, in the manner described in the article Mamma, Removal of. The chief piece of dex- terity in the operation consists in detaching all the outside of the cyst from its surrounding connections, without wounding it. Thus, the operator takes the part out in an entire state, and is sure that none of the cyst remains behind. When the cyst is opened, some of the contents escape, it collapses, and the dissection is rendered mere tedious and difficult but sometimes more eas)'. Sir Astley Cooper believes, that the best manner of performing the operation is to make an incision m the swelling, and then to press the sides of the sk n setS, by which means the cyst may be easily detached and removed. If the attempt be made fo exract the tumor whole, "the dissect.on is most tedious, and, before it is completed, the cyst is either cut, or burst. So many incisious and so mi^l pain may be readily prevented by opening it f eeU- by one incision, raising its edge between tU lorLpi" and dissecting it from -'s adhe..o,is to the surrounding membrane. {Swgical Essays, mrtii p 240.) When the swelling ism the scalp, Sir Astley directs an incision to be made througH its centre, from one side to the other, when its con- tents, which in this situation ^'^7 immediately discharged n a mass of the same shape as the tumor. The cyst l^'^>"g/»'^«'\^r, J a tenaculum, may then be easily separated. ^^ lio^-i the foregoing difficulties are hkcly to be encoun