INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS. 92 preventing more of the innermost ptirt from being drawn in,will act as a kind of stay, yet without en- tirely hindering the inverted outer fold from going still farther. For it being the middle fold that is acted upon by the outer, and this action con- tinuing after the inner portion becomes fixed, the gut is thrown into folds upon itself; so that a foot in length of intestine shall form an intussusception not more than three inches long. The outer portion of intestine is alone active in augmenting the disease when once begun; but if the inner one were capable of equal action in its natural direction, the eifect would be the same, that of endeavouring to invert itself, as in a pro- lapsus ani; and the outer and inner portions, by their action, would tend to draw in more of the gut, while the intermediate part only would, by its action, have a contrary tendency. The action of the abdominal muscles cannot assist in either forming or continuing this disease, as it must compress equally both above and below, although it is capable of producing the prolapsus ani. From the natural attachment of the mesentery to the intestines, vne would, at the first view of the subject, cone ive it impossible for any one portion of gut to get far within another; as the greater extent of mesentery that is carried in along with it, would render its further entrance more and more difficult, and we should expect this difficulty to be greater in the large intestines than in the small, as being more closely confined to their situ- ation; yet one of the largest intussusceptions of any known was in the colon, as related by Mr. Whately. (See Phil. Trans, vol, Ixxvi. p. 305.) The intussusception appeared to have begun at the insertion of the ileum into the colon, and to have carried along with it the ciecum and its ap- pendix. The ileum passed on into the colon, till the whole of the ascending colon, the transverse arch, and descending colon, were carried into the sigmoid flexure and rectum. The valve of the colon bi'ing the leading part, it at last got as low as the anus; and when the person went to stool, he only emptied the ileum; for one-half of the large intestines being filled up by the other, the ileum alone, which passed through the centre, dis- charged its contents. {J. Hunter.) [It will be readily conceived that a short inva- gination, which, though it must necessarily nar- row, need not at once completely close the intesti- nal tube, cannot long remain patent, inasmuch as the presence of the invagination within a portion of bowel becomes itself a source of irritation, in- ducing peristalsis in its recipient, and thereby increasing the intussusception. By exercising compression, vascular congestion and swelling set in, the canal is obstructed thereby, and if the lesion persist, inflammation, ulceration, and slough- ing will almost surely follow. These changes doubtless result from the pressure exercised bv the outer fold upon its contents, which induces inflam- mation in the bowel immediately above the obstruc- tion by opposing a barrier to the onward passage ot its contents, and, by cutting off the supply of blood to the invagination, tends to produce sloughing ot ilie same. The sloughing, although morbid in its origin, may, in one sense, be regarded as conserva- tive in its progress, for by it the obstructing intus- susception is cast off, and the channel restored to the intestinal tube. Keferring to the mechanism of intussusception, Dr. Brinton says: "The im- mediate cause of tlie displacement must be sought, not only in an abnormal violence, extent, and abruptness of that contraction of the transverse muscular layer which is one element of peristaltic movement, but in a deficiency of that co-ordinate contraction of the longitudinal fibres which is an equally important, though less energetic, consti- tuent of healthy peristalsis. The sudden and forcible constriction of a considerable length of bowel, forced, as it were, behind by the hitherto unrelaxed contraction from which it has extended, and bounded in front by a relaxed and flaccid bowel (unstretched by the due contraction of its longitudinal fibres), must, as it suddenly dimi- nishes the width of the segment it involves, simul- taneously increase its length; and thus push a variable portion of it into the succeeding dilated segment. This explanation, which seems to be a simple and incontrovertible application of the laws of intestinal movement to the facts of intussuscep- tion, refers the lesion to two causes, an active and a passive, one thrusting the bowel forwards into the next segment, and the other permitting this segment to receive it. The liability to this displacement seems to increase with tlie proxi- mity of the small intestine to the ilio-ca;cal valve. And this increase seems referable (like the effect of diarrhoea) to some general peculiarity in the muscular action of the end of the ileum, which may equally aftect both the above condition's of invagi- nation. But the remarkable frequency of the ilio-c£ecal invagination seems to depend on three circumstances: an irregular activity of the ileum, a resistance by the valve itself, and a laxity (pro- bably congenital) of the caecum. The first tends to invaginate the end of the ileum; the second prevents the bowel from being forced through the valve; the third permits the pliable cfficum to form the middle and outer sheaths." In Medical Times for Nov. 3, 1855, p. 456, a case of double intussusception is mentioned. It occurred in the practice of Mr. H. Guy. The patient was four months old, and on the occasion of the fatal attack awoke screaming, and died in sixty-six hours. The autopsy disclosed a double intussuscep- tion, one in which the ca;cum and ascending colon were received into the transverse colon, the otiier in which the ileum appeared to have been recently received by the latter. The caecum and ascending colon looked like a dark, firm clot of blood. Blood had passed per anum on the day of death. Diagnosis.—'niQ symptoms of intussusception are more or less common to other abdominal aftec- tions: as enteritis, many forms of mechanical intes- tinal obstruction, idiopathic ileus. It is ushered in by sudden and severe pain referred to a parti- cular localit)', attended by constipation, vomiting, and distension, and some depression and aiixiciy of countenance. Early age and the existence of diarrh(ea favour the probability of the presence of intussusception. Should the lesion persist, tenes- mus, with sanguiiico-mucous discharges per anum, may possibly occur—the former being a prominent symptom in proportion as the lesion is near to the anus. Of all the diagnostic signs the existence of a tumour, felt either through the .abdominal wall or per rectum, appearing at the anus or voided at stool, is the most conclusive.] In cases related by Mr. Ih.ntor, -Mr. rhomas Bliz;ird <,Mcd. Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 1(0), and