TETANUS. 711 their naliual state. There is generally, however, a progressive alteration of the pulse. " At the beginning, it is pretty hard and full, but towards the close it becomes more frequent and feeble, and often is irregular and intermittent. The heat of the skin also appears to depend on the violence of the spasms; it has been found by Dr. Fribo, of Geneva, as high as 110° Fahrenheit. The perspiration is generally profuse over the whole Ijody; but sometimes is confined to the face and chest. It continues during the whole course of the disease, and has a peculiar pungent odour. The urine presents nothing remarkable as to quantity or quality; some describe it as always liigh-coloured {Rochonx, Did. de Med., t. xx.; Fourmer Pessai/, Did. des Sc. Med., t. ix.), while others have observed it to be as often quite unchanged. (CuUen noticed its occasional sup- pression, or its evacuation with difficulty.) Torpor of the intestines, in a degree that resists the most powerful purgatives, is allowed by all who have witnessed the disease to be a more invariable ac- companiment than any other. Such dejections as are obtained are excessively oifensive and un- natural." {Symonds, in Cydop. of Prad. Med., art. Tdanus.) In this disease the head is seldom affected with delirium, or even confusion of thought, till the last stage of it. [There is absence of numbness and tingling; there is loss of sleep, which is exceed- ingly distressing; sometimes there is an occasional doze during the intervals of the paroxysms, and a sudden startling waking up.] Vomitings sometimes appear early in the dis- ease; but commonly they are not continued : and it is usual enough for the appetite to remain through the whole course of the disease; and what food happens to be taken down seems to be regularly enough digested. In several in- stances, a miliary eruption has appeared upon the skin; but whether this be a symptom of the disease, or the effect of a certain treatment of it, is undetermined. {C'ullen, in First Lines of Physic, vol. iii.) [In one case, case 13 {Guy^s Has. Rep., op. cit. p. 5), the symptoms continued severe until the ninth day, and on the eleventh miliary eruption appeared over the whole body, accompanied with successions of spasms and intervals of repose. On the sixteenth day exhaustion and rambling super- vened, but on the twenty-second day subsidence of symptoms and protracted recover}-. He was treated by large and repeated doses of musk.] According to Baron Larrey, opisthotonos is not so often observed in Egypt as emprosthotonos; and the experience of this gentleman taught him that the former was the most rapidly fatal. We must not adopt, however, his curious opinion, that the violent extension of the vertebra; of the neck, and the manner in which the head is thrown back, cause strong compression of the spinal marrow, and a permanent contraction of the larynx and pharynx (Mini, de Chirurrjic Mililaire, t. i. p. 24C), since this sort of compression, if it did not at once destroy the patient, would at any rate pnriilyse most of the muscles, and instantly stop tluMr extraordinary contraction. Tills oxpericnced writer notices how much the nerves of the neck and throat seem generally to be affected on the invasion of this disease. The consequent contraction of the muscles of tlicse parts, he says, is soon attended with difficulty of deglutition and respiration. [There is great appre- hension of suffocation, and towards the termina- tion much dyspnffia, with lits of comparative apn£Ea; and often comparative voicelessness owing to spasmodic interference with the action of the chest, and of the tight shutting of the jaws.] The patients then experience, if not a dread of liquids, at least a great aversion to them, which often pre- vents the administration of internal remedies; and if the wound is out of reach of the interference of art, the patient is doomed to undergo the train of sufferings attendant on this cruel and terrible disorder. Nothing can surmount the obstacles which present themselves in the oesophagus. The introduction of an elastic gum catheter into this canal, through the nostrils, is followed by con- vulsions and suffocation. " I have tried this means (says Larrey) on the person of M. Navailh, a surgeon of the second class, who died of a locked- jaw, brought on by a wound of the face, accom- panied with a comminuted fracture of the bones of the nose, and part of the left orbit. " In the examination of the bodies of persons dead of tetanus, I have found the pharynx and (Esophagus much contracted, and their internal membrane red, inflamed, and covered with a viscid reddish mucus. " Hydrophobia, hysteria, and several other nervous diseases, likewise produce their chief effects upon these organs, and the result appears to be the same. So, I have just remarked, when tetanus is arrived at its worst degree, the patients have a great aversion to liquids, and, if they are forced to swallow them, immediate convulsions are excited. The circumstance was particularly observed in M. Navailh."—(il/ew. de Chirurgie Militaire, t. i. p. 247, 248.) Sometimes tetanic affections deviate from their ordinary course and nature. The most singular of these anomalies is recorded by Sir Gilbert Blane: it is a case in which tetanus prevailed to a very considerable extent, without any de- gree of pain. The spasms were accompanied with a tingling sensation, which was even rather agreeable than distressing. The case, however, terminated fiitally; but, to the last, no pain was experienced. In two examples, mentioned by the same author, the spasms affected only tlie side of the body in which the wound was situated. [The spasms may attack primarily the muscles of the part injured, instead of the muscles of the jaw (Morgan, on Tetanus).] The dissection of patients who have died of tetanus has thrown no light upon the nature of this fatal disorder. Sometimes slight effusions are found within the cranium; but, in genera], no morbid appearance whatever can be delected in the head. There is always more or less of an inflammatory appearance in the oesophagus and in the villous coat of the stomach about the cardia. But those who are cunveraant with dis- sections must be well aware that these appear- ances are common to a groat number of diseases, and are uniformly met with in every case of rapid or violent death. Besides the reiliiess and in- creased vascularity of these parts. Baron Larrej', as 1 have already stated, found the pharynx and ccsophagus much contracted, and covered with a viscid reddish mucus. Jic also found numerous lumbrici in the bowels of the sevornl patients who i