962 VENEREAL DISEASE. globules by filtration, tlie remaining liquor puris was uninoculable But, side by side witli the positive assertions of the modern French school, that the indurated chancre is never inoculable, it is interesting to contrast the opinions of those who have practised syphilisation, and who therefore have had the largest experience in syphilitic inoculation. Sperino, in his original work, says that he always chooses the matter from indurated Hunteriau chancres, and does not allude to any particular difficulty in inoculating from them. Dr. Boeck, who has been practising syphilisation on an extensive scale for the last fifteen years, finds that, if certain precau- tions are taken, it is only as an exception that the hard sore is non-inoculable in a syphilitic person, i He prefers this kind of matter for purposes of syphilisation, and constantly uses it, finding it, as he says, more rapid in its curative action and less locally irritating. Dr. Boeck admits, however, that in proportion as the secretion from the sore is thin and serous, will be the probability of failure ; he therefore recommends that a piece of dry lint should be left in contact with the sore for twenty- four hours, at the end of which time there will be found a thick and purulent secretion, from which a positive result can usually be obtained. In case of failure he re-inoculates daily, and by persevering in this way very rarely fails of success. His col- league and assistant. Dr. Bidenkap, relates fifteen cases of successful inoculation from indurated sores on the individuals bearing them. He says that he could bring forward a much larger number, but he restricts himself to these, because in all of them secondary disease had already appeared, and the truly infecting nature of the primary sore was therefore beyond all doubt. (See Rccherclies sur la syphilis, by W. Boeck, p. 65). Similar results have also recently been obtained in the Vienna Hospital by Dr. Pick. (See Auspitz de Lchren von si/pJiilitischen contagium Wien 1866). We are cognizant of six cases in which the matter from indurated sores was inoculated successfully. Three of these were inoculations from indurated sores on syphilitic patients ; the other three were auto-inoculations. The first three occurred in the female Lock Hospital ; one was inoculated by Dr. Boeck, one by Mr. Gascoyen, and one by Mr. J. Lane. In each the sore from which the matter was taken was carefully selected, and presented all the typical characters of an indurated sore. Previous to the inoculation sup- puration had been excited in them by the applica- tion of the Unguentum sabinBs. In all the inocu- lations were carried through a lengthened series. Of the three cases of auto-inoculation, two were male patients under the care of Mr. Walter Coulson at the Lock Hospital. In the first he did not obtain a positive result till after a daily inocu- lation for three weeks. In the second he suc- ceeded on the fifth trial. The third case was inoculated by Mr. Berkeley Hill. In this case there was a well-marked indurated sore on the pre- puce, from w hich Mr.Hill, after irritation with Ung. sabina, had obtained in the first attempt three well-developed pustules on the abdomen, and from these he inoculated successfully a second and a third time. In all these cases of inoculation from indurated sores the pustules liave been large, and have produced ulcers varying in size from a four- penny piecc to a shilling, but there has been nothing in their appearance to distinguish them from inoculations made from non-indurated sores. There has been no more appearance of induration in the one th.an in the other ; no noticeable differ- ence in the duration of the ulcers, which averaged from three to four weeks ; or in the appearance of the resulting cicatrices. We are therefore confirmed in the opinion which we have always entertained, that there is no essential or generic difference between the two kinds of venereal sores, and no valid grounds for the assertion that they invariably produce their like. But there are other proofs afforded by syphilisa- tion of the unity of venereal disease. It has been found that after inoculations have been practised for a certain length of time, positive results will no longer be obtainable. A condition of resistance to, or immunity from, the contagion of syphilis, more or less absolute, will have been acquired. This immunity, it appears, is sooner reached when the indurated, than when the non-indurated matter is used, though it is attainable with one as cer- tainly as with the other. But whichever matter has been employed, the patient, when immunity has been obtained, is proof against the effect of both kinds, or so nearly proof that no new matter of any kind can be inoculated through a series of more than two or three generations. This is surely very strgng evidence that we are not deal- ing with two separate and distinct diseases. But in addition to this it is affirmed by Dr. Boeck and others, who have practised syphilisation on a large scale, that its curative effect is obtained equally with both kinds of matter. Of the curative effects of syphilisation we hesitate to express an opinion ; but froTn our own observation we can testify to the reality of the immunity pro- duced, and to its being obtainable whether the •matter employed is derived from the hard or from the soft sore. Attempts have recently been made to explain the cases in which the hard sore has been success- fully inoculated on the bearer, or on another syphi- litic patient. It has been said that the lancet may have been previously used for inoculating from soft sores, and may not have been sufficiently wiped. It is, no doubt, just conceivable that, in the hands of an extremely careless person, a lancet sufficiently contaminated with matter from a soft sore to pro- duce a positive result may have been employed. But every one who has inoculated much must know that considerable care is necessary to insure success, even with soft matter, and that it W extremely imlikely that an inoculation should taJte after a lancet has been wiped, let the wiping haw been done ever so carelessly. That such a thing via!/ have occurred once or twice is corUimly c«-] dib'le; that it should have occurred, not exceptional^ but in all the numerous cases in which the hara| sore has now been inoculated by undeniably com- petent observers, is as certainly beyond the hmlB of ordinary belief. We consider, therefore, we«^e justified in affirming that the inoculability ot w indurated sore on a syphilitic patient has becnimijf established. , . But, if the inoculability of the indurated sore has been denied on insufficient g™"»I^f'°" L other hand we believe that the """^"'•'''"'•'y °I *° soft sore has been much exaggerated. U nas affirmed positively that the soft sore is a pureyr