LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. 170 plished, but to this the'operative process should be limited, and the wound should be suffered to heal without further disturbance.' When there is what Mr. Travers terms a stricture in the nasal duct, and the passage of the probe is more firmly resisted, he admits that some means must be employed for keeping tlie duct pervious, after it has been re- opened. He never interferes with the integuments, except in the case of abscess discolouring the skin, and threatening to produce a fistula; and for the purpose of restoring the passage, he uses a set of silver probes, about five inches long, of various sizes, flattened at one end, and slightly bulbous at the point. When there is no obstruction, these, he. saj's, may be introduced with perfect facility from either of the puncta lachryinalia into the nostril. ' If the punctum be constricted, it is readily en- tered, and dilated by a common pin; and upon withdrawing it, by one of the smaller probes. The direction and relative situation of the lachrymal ducts, the sac, and nasal canal, point out the proper course of the instrument. It is confirmed by its advance, without the employment of force, and the sensation conveyed by the free and unen- cumbered motion of its point. Until the point is fairly within the sac, it is necessary to keep the eye- lid gently stretched and slightly everted: the upper lid being drawn a little upward towards the brow, the lower, as much downward toward the zygoma. The point carried home to the sac, and touching lightly its nasal side, the lids maybe left at liberty while a half-circular motion is performed by the instrument; the surgeon neither suifering the point to recede, nor, on the other hand, allowing it to become entangled in the membrane. The probe now rests in a perpendicular direction, upon the eyebrow, towards its inner angle, and, in this direction it is to be gentlj depressed, until it strikes upon the floor of the nostril, where its pre- sence is readily ascertained by a common probe passed beneath the inferior turbinated bone. The probe, of smallest dimensions, is of sufficient firm- ness to preserve its figure in its passage through the healthy duct, but it is too flexible to oppose any considerable obstruction. For the stricture of the lachrymal ducts, it is of sufficient strength. _ Very many cases of recent origin, and in which the stricture has no great degree of firmness (Mr. Travers says) are completely cured by three or four introductions of the probe into the nostril, at intervals of one or two days. I have seldom met with a stricture so firm as nottoyield to the fiill-siJied probe.' When the resistance is not altogetlier removed after this plan has been tried some days, Mr. Travers introduces a style, having a small flat head, a little sloped, through the punctum lachry- male into the nose, and leaves it in the nasal duct for twenty-four hours. If worn longer, he says, that it causes ulceration of the orifice. A day or two is to elapse before the style is again introduced, which must now be passed through the other lachrymal duct. On the intervening days, tepid water should be injected with Anel s syringe. {Sr/mpsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 3G9, 3'2, 374.) ^ . , Supposing the nasal duct to be obliterated, for a considerable part of its extent, by a firm sub- stance, what practice should be followed? Ought the formation of an artificial passage to be at- tempted ? On this point modern practitioners diflfer; but, as the expedients, adopted for this purpose, cannot be judged of previously to their description, it will be better in the first place briefly to notice them. As Pott has remarked, the upper and hinder part of the lachrymal sac is firmly attached to the OS unguis, a small, and very thin bone, just within the orbit, which bone is so situated, that, if it be by any means broken through the two cavi- ties of the nose and orbit communicate with each other ; consequently, the os unguis forms the par- tition between the hinder part of the lachrymal sac, and the upper part of the cavity of the nose ; and itiis by making a breach in this partition, that the formation of an artificial passage has been at- tempted. In Pott's time, the cautery had long been disuBcd for making an aperture in the os un- guis, and various instruments were recommended for this object, such as a large strong probe, a kind of gimlet, a curved trocar, &c., each of which, says this practical writer, if dexterously and pro- perly applied, will do the business very well: the only necessary caution is, so to apply whatever instrument is used, that it may pierce through that part of the bone which lies immediately behind the lachrymal sac, and not to push it too far up into the nose, for fear of injuring the os spongiosum behind, while it breaks its way. Pott always used a curved trocar, the point of which was turned obliquely downward, from the angle of the eye, towards the inside of the nose. The accom- plishment of the breach was known by the dis- charge of blood from the nostril, and of air from the wound, upon blowing the nose. As soon as the perforation had been made, Pott introduced a tent of lint, and afterwards a piece of bougie, or a leaden canula. Ware preferred a nail-headed style, about an inch long, which was worn for as long a time as was thought necessary to establish the freedom of the communication. Unfortunately for the scheme of making an arti- ficial passage, nature was generally so busy, that she completely frustrated the aim of the surgeon by gradually filling up the new aperture again. Hence, some practitioners were not content with drilling a hole through the os unguis, but actually removed a portion of this bone, either with the forceps proposed by Lamorier in 1729 (see Mem. de VAcad. des Sciences), or with cutting instru- ments, amongst which the most celebrated is the sharp-edged kind of canula devised by Hunter. While this was being applied, liowever, it was necessary to support the os unguis with something passed up the nose, and a piece of horn was found to answer very well. I do not feel it necessary to enter further into the details of these methods of forming an artificial passage between the lachrymal sac and nostril. I have never seen a case in which I should have deemed such practice advisable ; and that the ne- cessity for it must be rare, may be inferred from what Mr. Travers has observed, viz. that he does not believe the perforation of the os unguis ever really required. {Synopsis, l\-c., p. 379.) Beer's remarks are also decidedly against the practice ; for he states, that, in order that the new openmg may not be closed with lymph, it must be made too high up to serve the purpose of a drain, throiigli which the mucus can descend by its own gravity. He has not met with a single case, either in his own practice, or amongst the patients whom he has had opportunities of seeing under other practitioners,