OVABIOTOMY. 415 coloured contents ; muUilocular cysts, filled with albuminous, serous, colloid, gelatiniforra fluids, either colourless or dark or whitish; semi-solid or solid tumors ; dermoid cj'sts. But in order to secure a successful result, certain indications in favour of the operation ought to be weighed against the circumstances which would otherwise constitute grave contra-indications. 1. The general health of the patient ought not to have suffered from the local disease to such an extent that she would uot be likely to bear the shock of the operation. 2. The patient ought to.desire the operation, and she should be convinced of the necessity of its performance. 3. Tumors of moderate size, when free, or even if the adhesions are extensive, provided they are not firmly fixed in the pelvis, justify a favourable prognosis. 4. The more rapidly the cyst grows, the faster the fluid recollects after tapping, and consequently the more deleterious its effects on the patient the more urgent become the reasons against delay. 5. When after a palliative tapping the cyst has refilled to a certain degree, so that another tapping would soon become necessary, ovariotomy ought to be performed, provided the other indications are in its favour. 6. Solid or semi-solid tumors, or multilocular cysts, consisting of many small chambers or trabecu- lated stroma, with thick and very viscid contents, which could not be diminished in bulk and weight by tapping during the operation, ought to be ex tirpated if possible while they are of moderate size and will escape through an incision of mode- rate length. 7. Multilocular cysts with very thin and friable walls and septa, and with viscid or jelly-like con- tents, occasionally break on the slightest pressure during the operation. Such cysts would have un- doubtedly ruptured mthin a short period spon- taneously or from an accidental injury, and brought the disease to a fatal termination, had not the proper moment been seized, and by their removal imminent danger been warded off. 8. When an ovarian cyst has given way, th< contents, if fluid, may be absorbed by the peri- toneum; if viscid, fotal chronic peritonitis is gene- rally set up, and ovariotomy affords the only hope of recovery. Co7itra-indicalions.—1. As n general rule, any existing disease which in its natural course would prove fatal to the patient or would influence her constitution in such a manner as to render her re- covery very unlikely, or other serious surgical operations inadmissible, will also forbid ovariotomy. This operation ought'not to be resorted to in individuals suffering from cancer, far-advanced tuberculosis or scrofula, syphilis, diseases of the heart, or in cases where this organ has been dis- placed by the tumor, and at the same time has been fixed in its abnormal site by adhesions which ■would retain it in its position even after the re- moval of the ovary; diseases of the brain and the nervous centres, of the liver, spleen, and kidneys ; ulcers of the stomach and diseases of the alimentary canal, which permanently impair general nutrition ; intimate connections of the tiunor with and serious lesions of the uterus, the bladder, and the alimentary tube ; ascites in consequence of liver complaint, of disease of the heart, or degeneration of the kidneys. Scurvy, anjemia, and other blood diseases, liectic fever, great weak- ness and extreme emaciation from advanced age or impaired nutrition, would lead, if not to absolute prohibition, to a very unfavourable opinion as to the probable result. But in few instances will the judgment of the surgeon be so severely tested as in estimating the value and importance of many of the above- mentioned contra-indications, whether any one is by itself so serious as to preclude surgical in- terference, or is merely a consequence of the local disease. This may be instanced by a "case which came under the writer's care, in which all the symptoms of far-advanced tuberculosis were pre- sent—cough, hectic fever, high temperature, and rapid pulse—which all disappeared after extirpa- tion of the ovarian tumor. The pulse fell from 108 to 88, the temperatiu-e from 101'4° F. to its normal range ; cough was no longer troublesome. It may be added, that the cyst contained genuine tuber- cular deposits, was thin-walled and very fragile. 2. The operation ought not to be performed if well-founded suspicion is entertained of the tumor being cancerous. Cancer of the ovaries is sup- posed to occur most frequently after the change of life, but the writer has seen one case in_ a young girl, and others in middle-aged women. Such tu- mors often form extensive and intimate adhesions, infiltrate the surrounding tissues and attack the neighbouring organs, with which they form at an advanced stage of the degeneration one confluent mass. In most [^cases their extirpation, if at- tempted, would meet with insurmountable diffi- culties; and should the operation be terminated and the patient recover from it, the disease would sooner or later attack some other part or organ. Ascites generally accompanies malignant disease of the ovaries, and both ovaries are usually affected at the same time. 3. Firm, extensive, and vascular adhesions may sometimes render the completion of the operation impossible, but the extent of adhesions alone forms "no contra-indication to the operation, so far as they can be ascertained before the operation is com- menced, except such close adhesions within the pelvis as would render separation of the cyst from uterus, bladder, or rectum extremely difficult and hazardous. Previous surgical treatment, tapping, injection of iodine, even a preceding extirpation of the other ovary, are not necessarily contra- indications. 4. The presence of ascites need not deter from the operation, provided it be due to escape of fluid from the cyst, or is brought on by the mechanical irritation of the peritoneum by the tumor. If, however, it is caused by disease of heart, liver, or kidneys, these conditions forbid the operation. 5. The individuality of the patient ought also to be considered. Women of extremely nervous and excitable temperament, devoid of self-control and prone to hysterical affections, are very unfavour- able subjects for the operation, and still more for the after-treatment. 6. As a rule, the operation ought not to be per- formed during pregnancy. In some cases mis- carriage will be brought on by the contemporary growth of the ovarian timiour. Should the preg- nancy go on, it will be advisable to gain time by tapping, if any large cyst can be emptied, but if the ovarian tumor is too solid to be reduced by tapping,