When the habit is once acquired of commencing at the nerve entrance, and studying the topo- ;_;raphy of the inner eye from behind forwards, so to speak, it will be easy to examine cases in which tiie crystalline is impaired or the retina detached, or in which one side of the globe is obscured. DiffwuUies of (he EMimination.—Every honest observer will have to acknowledge, at the com- mencement of his investigations, that he has only succeeded in seeing a luminous reddish disc, and will find that he requires continued practice in order to learn the use of the ophthalmoscope ; and what is even more important, to understand the appearances it reveals—precisely as practice is needed in order to obtain skill in auscultation, or in tactile examination. Difficulties arising from this cause cannot, of course, be entirely obviated; but still there are certain sources of trouble to the learner about which information may be given, and which are briefly referred to in the following paragraphs. Ti.e first of these difficulties depends upon the presence of the object-lens, and upon the reflection of its image in the mirror by the cornea of the examined eye, a reflection that may prevent the possibility of accurate examination. In order to displace it, the ej'e under examination should be slightly moved, and the object-lens somewhat rotated upon either its vertical or its horizontal axis; it may also be necessary to alter the position of the flarne. The small, bright, round image of the mirror may, by an inexperienced observer, be mistaken for the optic disc itself. The presence of a dark spot in the image, corresponding to the central perforation, and the absence of vessels, are the indications by which this error may be avoided. It is not at first easy to obtain the proper rela- tive distances between the eyes of patient and surgeon, and between the mirror and the lens, that are necessary for clear images. On this sub- ject, however, directions have been already given. Another difliculty may be that the examiner, in spite of brilliant illumination, obtains no clear definition ; and this may arise from a mistaken endeavour to use the greatest possible amount of light. Many ol.jectsare best shown by moderate il- lumination, and a very brilliant light, may itself be a source of erroneous diagnosis. Kxperience shows this to be the case in opacities'of the media, which are more clearly seen in front of a dimly lighted fundus than against strong illumination ; it is, therefore, prudent to use a moderate degree of light for studying the topography of the eye, and especially for determination of the relative depths of objects ; and to advance to further illumination only when the localities are known, and for any object that may specially require it. A final difficulty, especially in the erect image, is the proper accommodation of the eyes of the observer. The short-sighted, and persons generally who are unaccustomed to the use of optical instru- ments, experience this diLjulty, that they in- voluntarily accommodate the eye for its near point, when the object of vision is close to them; on account of this their eyes are readily fatigued, and soon suffer from congestion and lachrymation. With the ophthalmoscope, as with all optical instru- ments admitting of adjustment, it is necessary to accommodate the eye for its far point, and to arrange the apparatus accordingly. Ileymann advises the use of concave glasses in ophtlialmo- OPHTnALMOSCOPTi;. 3d3 scopic examination, as an exorcise of accommoda- tion; since m using a stronger concave than is necessary for correction, although the image will appear smaller, the greater the difference between the refraction of the media and the compensation of the lens, yet this small image is exceedingly clear and sharp. Then by degrees using weaker glasses with continually nearer approach to the eye examined, and at the same time with con- tinual endeavours to accommodate for greater dis- tance, the image of the retina may be seen at last without optical assistance. I proceed now to the consideration of certain physical conditions, in order to explain the means by which a clear image of the fundus oculi can be obtained. The human eye, in respect of its refraction, re- sembles a strong combination of positive lenses. If such a combination be placed between our own eye and any object, the object is rendered visible under certain definite circumstances, as an erect, or as an inverted image, and under other circum- stances it becomes invisible. The visibility of the object is chiefly determined by its relation to the focal point of the combination of lenses, partly by the distance between the lens and the eye, and also by the greater or smaller range of accommodation of the observer. If the object be either at the focus of the lens, or a little within it, the observer receives either parallel or sliglitlv divergent rays, and unites them into an image upon his retina; but at the same time, as the object is seen under an increased visual angle, it appears erect and magnified. This statement moreover, of the visibility of an object situated in the focus of the lens, only applies to observers who possess normal power of accommodation; for if the observer's eye be so constituted that'it can only accommodate for near objects, the object in the focus will not be visible, and the object and the lens must be brought nearer together in order to obtain an erect image. The object continues visible however, whether the eye of the observer be close to the lens or distant from it; only the greater the distance, the smaller will be the field of vision, from the loss of the marginal rays of light. If an object be placed beyond the focal point of the lenses, then the divergent rays proceedin<T from the object are so refracted in their passage that they become convergent, and unite to form an inverted image on the other side. This image is larger the farther it is from _tlie lenses, and the nearer the object is to the focus. It is only clearly visible when intercepted at the common focus of all the pencils of light entering into its formation- but, if this common focus be very far distant the image, on account of imperfect definition'and illumination, again becomes imperceptible, and cannot bo seen either upright or inverted. When we come to apply these laws to tlio system of refraction of the eye and to the retina as an object of vision, the next question is, where IS the retina? Does it lie within, in, or beyond the focal point of its own refracting media. The reply is, that it may bo found to occupy any of these positions ; but we can seldom ascertain which prior to examination, particularly in crises of blindness. If vision remain the point can be certainly determined by the distance, farther or nearer, at wliich objects can be clearly seen. If