256 LITHOTRITY instrument and the concave surface of the blades I When are directed immediately downwards, at the same time the handle of the instrument is slightly elevated so as to bring the end into the hollow behind the prostate, and thus command the central portion of the floor of the bladder. The male branch is again moved to and fro, as before, until the stone is caught or fished up from the depres- sion in which it lay, behind the prostate. Tlie manipulation is easily and safely performed, and M. Civiale has recourse to it in almost every operation which he performs, in order to seize any fragments that might have escaped the instrument during its lateral revolutions. It is particularly necessary when the calculus is lodged in a depres- sion behind the prostate. There is little difficulty in finding a large calculus, but it may not be so easy to seize the foreign body. In such cases M. Civiale recom- mends us {Traite Pratique et Historique de la Litliolrilie, 1847, p. 66) to apply the branches of the instrument, slightly separated, on the surface of the stone; the branches are then further separated by drawing one branch backwards, while the other is pushed forwards, until the edges of the stone are cleared; the instrument thus opened is pressed laterally on the calculus, until the branches become placed between the stone and the walls of the bladder. Sir B. Brodie and many English surgeons, on the other hand, have recourse to a different method during this part of the operation. They object to the manoeuvre of turning down the. point of the lithotrite at any time towards the floor of the bladder, and think it much more safe to depress that part of the organ with the convex extremity of the forceps. Sir B. Brodie thus describes the operation (Medico-Chirurcfical Trans, vol. xxxviii. 1855, p. 169) :— '• The patient lying on his back, the handle of the forceps is elevated, which of course brings the convex part of the curved extremity of it in con- tact with the posterior surface of the bladder, where it is contiguous to the rectum. The forceps is then to be opened by withdrawing the sliding blade to a greater or less extent, according to the probable size of the calculus, the fixed blade being at the same time pressed gently downwards, m the direction of the rectum. " The object of the manipulation is, that, the forceps being below the level of the other parts of the bladder, the calculus may fall into it by its own weight; and it is generally successful. li it should not do so, the forceps, without being moved from its situation, may be gently struck by the hand on one side, or on its anterior part, and the slight concussion thus communicated to the bladder will probably be sufficient to dislodge the calculus, and bring it within the grasp of the instrument. If it should be otherwise, the forceps being closed may be very gently and cautiously turned to one side or the other, so that the curved extremity ot it may make an angle of twenty-five or even thirty degrees with the vertical line of the body, then opened and pressed in the direction of the rectum in the manner already described. When firmly fixed between the blades of the lithotrite, the calculus may be crushed either with the hand alone, or with the aid of the screw. The hand may be tried first; and, if the calculus resist, the screw can be brought into play without any loss of time." M. Civiale's instrument, which the was the first to use in this country, writer — is employed, and pressure with the hand is adopted, the following manipulation becomes ne- cessary. The female branch is held firmly by the left hand, applied to the square portion; the circular projection immediately behind this square part is embraced between the index and middle fingers of the right hand, which are hooked on it, and use it as a jwint d'appui; the extremity of the male branch rests in the palm of the same hand, the palm being turned upwards. In this position, by strongly contracting the flexor muscles of the fingers, the male branch is driven forwards by a kind of jerk on the stone, when the latter, if not too hard, is readily broken by a few contractions of the kind mentioned. The action is one of percussion followed immediately by com- pression or crushing. Should the stone not yield to this action of the hand, nothing is easier than to bring the screw of the instrument into action. The catch-box is turned from right to left. By a peculiar mechanism this allows the screw to act, and its action is de- veloped by simply turning from left to right the wheel attached near the extremity of the male branch. It is important to remark that the act of crushing should be performed at as great a distance as pos- sible from the neck of the bladder. Hence care must be taken not to draw the forceps forwards during this part of the manipulation, so as to press on or irritate the more sensitive parts of the bladder. Before withdrawing the lithotrite, it is necessary to ascertain that the branches are perfectly closed, and that no fragments of the stone are retained between them. The scale marked on the handle of the instrument enables the operator to determine this point. A few turns of the screw backwards and forwards commonly suflice to clear the in- strument, or the action of the screw may be sus- pended and slight percussion be exercised on the extremity of the male branch. The completion of these manipulations implies . that a certain portion of the stone has been suffi- ciently reduced to pass Qff by the urethra without difficulty. The last step of the operation, there- fore, consists in immediately freeing the bladder from the detritus. If the operation has proceeded in a favourable manner, the patient is placed iu the erect posture, and a full-sized metallic ca- theter, with a wide slit on the upper surface neaj its extremity, is then introduced. The fluid which is in the bladder being withdrawn, some tepid water is repeatedly injected until the patient com- plains of fatigue or no detritus comes away. It will, however, often occur that the quantity of debris which comes away with this injection is small compared with what exists in the bladder, and is expelled two or three days afterwards by the natural efforts of micturition. In some com- plicated cases, where considerable enlargement of the prostate exists, it will be much easier to introduce the catheter while the patient is in tlie recumbent posture, and in this position wash out the bladder. These injections are particularly use- ful in cases where the bladder is unable to expel the urine or ddbris by its own '""'p™;''-, The propriety of injecting the ^'^ddei before the operation, and washing it . out "ft" e^jcli itting? for the purpose of removing a portion of