mation in these animals are, as will presently be shown, so precisely similar to those observed in man, that there is no reason for questioning the similarity of the vascular changes.] From his observations. Dr. Philip came to the conclusion that the state of the smaller vessels in an inflamed part is that of preternatural distension and debility. " In short (he says), inflammation seems to consist in the debility of the capillaries, followed by an increased action of the larger arteries. The motion of the blood is retarded in the capillaries, in con- sequence of the debility induced in them ; an unusual obstacle is thus opposed to its motion in the arteries preceding them in the course of the circulation, which are thus excited to increased action." Respecting the inference made by Dr. Philip, that the circulation is slower in inflamed than uninflamed arteries. Dr. J. Thomson states : " From a number of experiments which I have made, I am inclined to believe that a diminished velocity of the blood in the capillary branches is by no means a necessar}-, constant, nor even the most common effect of incipient and moderate degrees of inflammation." (P. 75.) In order to reconcile this difference in the state- ments made by the only two writers who had then examined this subject by experiment. Dr. (now Sir Charles) Hastings repeated their microscopic investigations. [It may here be remarked that all the early microscopic reports are more or less vitiated by two circumstances : 1st, the want of know- ledge, at that time, of the intimate structure of the three orders of vessels; and 2ndly, the then prevailing theory, to which all observed facts were made more or less to bend, that all vital processes were effected bj', and were therefore in direct re- lation to, the action of the vessels.] Dr. Hastings's conclusions were, " that certain stimuli applied to living parts produce an increased velocity of the blood's motion, and a contraction of the blood- vessels. During this state of excitement, the part affected is so far from giving ani/thing like the ap- pearance of inflammation, that the size of the vessels is diminished, and llie part paler. But, if the Stimulus be long continued, or increased in power, the small vessels, which, in thenatural state, admit only of one series of globules, become so dilated as to allow an accumulation of a much less fluid and red- der blood in them, which loses its globular appear- ance, and moves much more slowly than that which previously passed through the vessels. The yart now appears inflamed. If the stimulus bo removed, the vessels do not soon regain their original state : time is necessary to allow them to recover their contractile power. If the stimulus which produces the inflammation be of a very acrid nature, debility of the vessels is freciuently produced without any previous excitement. The blood in all the smaller vessels becomes very red, circulates very slowly, and in some vessels stagnates." {Hastings, On In- flammation of the Mucous Membrane of the Ltmns, p. 90-92.) ' _ Dr. Hastings therefore considered that the term inflammation should be confined to that stage of the process in which the blood v/as stagnant or nearly r^"*^ '^^'''^ respect to the conclusion drawn by Dr. Thomson from his experiments, that inflamma- tion in moderate degrees consists in an increased action of the vessels, Dr. Hastings argues that tiiis belief arises from hia having denominated that a INFLAMMATION. 23 state of inflammation which ought not to be so called, but is only that temporary excitement of the_ capillaries, generally preceding their debility, which is inseparable from inflammation. (Ilasiinas p. 98-101.) ■ ■ J ■> Mr. J. W. Earle adopts nearly the same view. He asks " whether either of the variations in the state of the capillaries, and in the flow of the blood, which have been described by Dr. Thomson, was accompanied with an effusion of lymph or pus, or by mortification, which are the usual attendants upon the state of inflammation, and by which the existence of that condition might have been dis- tinctly recognised." He deems the evidence adduced by Dr. Philip a complete proof that 7io sign of inflammation can be detected wJiile ike velocity of the blood's motion is iiwreased, but that inflammation is immediately recognised when it is retarded. (Land. Med. Gazette, vol. xvi. p. 40.) Mr. J. W. Earle quotes from M. Gendrin the following particulars respecting the nature of the process of inflammation: " If (says M. Gendrin) we continue the irritation of the tissue, the blood flows towards the point irritated. The globules of the blood are then seen crowding into the capillaries, which are dilated, and which all carry the blood towards the point irritated. This movement is so evident that one need only place a red-hot needle upon the course of the mmute vessel, in which the flow of the globules has been distinctly noticed, in order to see them instantly retrograde towards the point irritated. The capillaries around this point dilate, and are seen to multiply themselves. The globules arrive ; they are crowded together ; their motion is retarded, and at length suspended. They revolve upon themselves, and at last remain entirely at rest." (See Gendrin, Hist. Anat. des Inflam- mations^ This drawing of the globules from all sides towards the part irritated is one of _the most important facts in the phenomena of the circulation during inflammation. Mr. Travers, who made a series of observations in order to compare the phenomena resulting from ordinary irritation with those observed during the healing process of wounds, also traced the relation of inflammatory effusions to the varying conditions of the circulation. He pointed out especially the necessity of regarding all the observed phenomena as mutually dependent. "Some (he says, speaking of the condition of stasis) have represented this remora as me- chanical, others as chemical, others again as a nervous phenomenon. To constitute inflammation, it must be all or neither ; for the mechanical, chemical, and vital properties are all implicated and altered by inflammation. With whichever we com- mence, the remaining changes are unavoidable." {Travers, The Physiology of Inflammation, A'-c., 1844, p. 4.) Mr. Wharton Jones, who, partly from his own observations, and partly aided by the Avritings of Virchow, Vogel, and Henlc, described the principal microscopic appearances more at large than any of his predecessors in this country, having employed for the purpose of irritation a strong solution of salt, fell into the error of ascribing the stasis and its .accompanying serous exudation to cxosmose, caused by the salt. " It appears to mo (he says) that the adhesion of the red corpuscles to the walls of the vessels, and to each other, 07i which the stagnation depends, can be attributed only