mismanaged cases ; the contracted air-passage above may be widened by the introduction of in- struments, and the edges of the wound pared aud brought together." (0/>. cit. p. 341.) Wlien from the obstruction of tlie rima glottidis by swelling of the lining of the larynx, respiration is dangerously interrupted, the wound in the tra- chea not being free, or even being nearly closed, tracheotomy or the enlargement of the original ■wound, together with the use of a tube, may be necessary to save the patient's life. A few surgeons entertain considerable appre- hension about the ill efiects of the entrance of unwarmed atmospheric air into the air-passages. It is not a doctrine, however, to which the gene- rality of the hospital surgeons of London attach any importance. It appears from the investigations of M. Velpeau, that wounds in the thyro-hyoid space are more difficult to heal and more likely to become fistulous than others affecting the larynx or trachea. The healing of such fistulous opening is also less easily accomplished. The practice of M. Velpeau, for the relief of this case, consists in taking a flap of skin from the front of the larynx, paring off the edges of the fistulous opening, and fixing the flap correctly with the twisted suture. Many interest- ing particulars, respecting this plan, are detailed by M. Velpeau in his tract Des Fistules airiformes, et de la Broncho-Plastique." Should there be much coughing, apparently arising from inflammation of the larynx or tra- chea, bleeding is proper. The spermaceti mixture, with opium, is frequently of great service. I never saw a wound of the trachea unite by the first intention. See Jolm Bell, On Wounds, ed. 3. Hennen'g Mili- tary Surgery, p. 356, &c. ed. 2. 8vo. Edinb. 1820. Amonffst otlier references made by Dr. Hennen, the following seem to me to merit particular notice:— An interesting case of wound of the neck, succeeded by hemiplegia, and another of gunshot wound of the throat, succeeded by paralysis and convulsions, are given by Forestus in his Surgical Observations. Another, with loss of motion in tlie arm, from a wound in the neck, is to be found in the Edin. Med. Essays, vol. i. And in the Med. Commentaries, by Dr. Duncan, vol. iv. p. 434. and vol. viii. p. 356., are two interesting cases. Mursinna, in his Med. Chir. Beobachtunsen, relates a case of removal of the thyroid gland by a cannon-ball; the patient survived fourteen days, and died of dysentery. Wounds of the oesophagus often remain open for an indeter- minate period, as is exemplified in a case reported by Trioen, in his Fasciculus Observationum, p. 40. Lugd. 1745. Mr. Bruce has recorded an interesting case of wound of the oesophagus, in Med. Chir. Journ. vol. i. p. 369. I would also refer to various parts of M^m. de-Chir. milit. et clinique, t. iv., of Baron Larrey, Thomson's Report of Obs. made in Mil. Hospital, in Belgium, 8vo. Edin. 1816. Robert Liston, On Practical Surgery, 8vo. Lond. 1837. W. 11. Porter, On the Surgical Pathology of the Larynx and Trachea, 8vo. Lond. 1837. 1'. Ryland, On the Diseases, &c. of the Larynx and Trachea, 8vo. Lond. 1837. THROMBUS. (From StpoixSos, coagulated blood.) A clot of blood. The term is also ap- plied to a tumor, formed by a collection of ex- travasated, coagulated blood, under the integu- ments after bleeding. When not considerable, it is usually called an ecchjjmosis. A thrombus, after bleeding, generally arises from the opening in the vein not corresponding to that in the skin. Tlic patient's altering the posture of his arm, while the blood is flowing into the basin, will often cause an interruption to tiic os- IBUS. 731 cape of the fluid from the external orifice of the puncture; and consequently it insinuates itself into the cellular substance in the vicinity of the opening in the vein. In proportion as the blood issues from the vessel, it is effused in the cellular membrane between the skin and fascia; and this with more or less rapidity, and in a greater or less quantity, according as the edges of the skin more or less im- pede the outward escape of the fluid. Sometimes, also, a thrombus forms after venesection, when the usual dressings, compress, and bandage, have been put over the puncture, aud the patient impru- dently makes use of the arm on which the opera- tion has been performed. When the extravasation is not copious, it is of little importance, for the tumor generally ad- mits of being easily resolved, by applying linen dipped in any discutient lotion. It sometimes happens that a thrombus induces inflammation and suppuration of the edges of the puncture. The treatment is now like that of any little abscess: a common linseed poultice may be applied, and a considerable accumulation of matter prevented by making an opening with a lancet in proper time. As soon as the inflammatory symp- toms have ceased, discutients should be employed again, for the purpose of dispersing the remaining clots of blood, and surrounding induration. When the quantity of blood is large, many authors recommend opening the tumor at once; and despairing of the power of the absorbents to remove the extravasation, they direct as much of the blood as possible to be pressed out of the in- cision. However, the making of an opening is seldom necessary, and often brings on inflam- mation and suppuration, when they might be avoided. I have never seen any case in which this practice seemed necessary, [Thrombus. — E'mJoZi*//!.— Thrombus is an obstruction of the vascular canals by a morbid product developed at the site of the obliteration. Embolism is a vascular obstruction caused by any body detached from the internal surface of the heart or of the vessels. Embolus. The anatomical conditions which lead to throm- bus are 1. Atheromatous and calcareous degeneration of the vessels, which, by constriction and ulceration, retard the course of the blood and lead to the coa- gulation of its fibrin. Arteritis.—This condition is denied by some writers on the ground of the absence of vessels in the inner and middle coats. The character of thrombi vary according to their origin — sometimes in great part composed of fibrin, sometimes containing globules which are neither pus globules nor white blood corpuscles; elements of connective tissue; sometimes it is a fibrous cord or membranous exudation adherent to the wall of the vessel. Embolism.—The walls of the vessel are usually intact; it is found most frequently in the internal carotid and middle cerebral arteries. Both thrombus and embolism lead to softening of the brain—generally with paralysis of motion on the opposite side, sensibility sometimes intact sometimes diminished, never completely anni- hilated, rarely exaggerated or perverted. Loss of movement is of shorter duration than from hremorr- hnge. They may result also from autemia or from