490 PUi requirements of health, as rejards its contraction, dilatation, and its accomraodaiive nioveniKnts. Ill an eye (iit twenty) in which the diameter (medium dilatation) of the pupil u -J of an inch, ■we find that the pupil can become contracted to a diameter of -^j of an inch, and can be dilated to a diameter of ^ of an inch. The distance of the margin of tlie pupil (medium dilatation) from the apex of the cornea amoimts to about of an inch. The centre of the pupil is situated a little in- wards from the axis of the cornea, and is carried still a little more inwards when approacliing the cornea during accommodation. The margin of the pupil during all its movements glides upon the capsule of the crystalline lens, and either advances towards or recedes from the cornea, according to the chane;es which take place in the curvature of the crystalline lens. Contraction of the pupil is either direct—i.e. the result of some kind of stimulus applied to the same eye—or it is indirect or consensual, i.e. the result of some kind of stimulus applied to the fellow eye. T/ie pupil lecomes contracled—1. When lookina: at (accommodated for) near objects, or when look- ing through a " weak " concave lens. The rela- tions between the size of the pupil and the state of accommodation may, however, be disturbed through anomalies in the optic nerve; as also in those nerves which supply the iris, or through changes in the structure of the iris itself. 2. Dur- ing the action of the muscles attached to the eyeball, more especially of " the internal recti." 3. On the stimulus of light. 4. On direct irrita- tion of the fifth nerve, or of its ophthalmic branch, or after division of the Gasserian ganglion. The contraction produced by division of the third and of the sympathetic nerve is attributed to a reflex action in the ciliary ganglion from the irritation of these nerves being convej^ed to the fifth. If the influence of the spinal nerves upon the iris is removed, the parts supplied by the cerebral nerves remain unrestrained, and as a consequence of this uncontrolled action, contraction of the pupil follows. It is contracted during sleep from decrease (?) of sensibility of the fifth nerve. 5. On the local ap- plication of medical agents, such as aconitum napellus, ruta graveolens, opiiun, physostigma vene- nosum (Calabar bean). 6. After escape of aqueous humour, of vitreous substance, or of the lens. The mobility diminishes with the advance of age. A mobile pupil is no certain proof of the eye possessing sight, since the pupil of a blind eye may "contract" when the eye is moved quickly. The pupil of a blind eye moves in concert with that of the "healthy" fellow eye. We test the mobility of the pupil by making the patient face the light, keeping the light thoroughly excluded from the eye which is not under examination. The eye under examination being directed to the light, is shaded by holding our hand before the pupil, which being quickly withdrawn, it is again exposed to the light. Atropia should be applied if adhesions or other structural changes exist or are suspected. The dilatation of the pupil is the result of contraction of tlu! "radiating " iibres of the iris. Tlui pupil lieoonies dilated—1. When looking at ('relaxing the power of accommodation''') dis- tant objects. 2. On diminishing the stimulus of light. 3. On the application of medical agents, as belladonna, &c. Ill describing morbid chnnges, use is frequently made of such terms as, the pupil is of " medium size," " it is contracted," "it is dilated," " it acts in concert, it is sluggish, fixed," &c. &c., thus com- paring it with the size and mobility of the pupil in health when tested with the same degrees of light; e.g. "the pupil is dilated" indicates that it remains dilated when a healthy pupil, exposed to the same degree of light, assumes a medium size, or becomos contracted. It may be dilated to such an extent as to cause its margin to disap- pear behind the cornea, or on the other hand, con- tracted to the size of a small pin's-head. " It acts in concert," or "its consensual move- ments are undisturbed," if, while the mobility of the fellow pupil is examined, its movements are similar to those of the pupil under examination, while its mobility maj', however, be deranged if tested by itself, the fellow eye being at the time kept closed. "Its movements are sluggish " if the rapiditj' of its contraction or dilatation, or of both, are below par. The cause of this may be found in changes of the texture of the iris, or in intra- or extra- ocular, or more especially in cerebral changes, all of which causes act by altering the function of the nerves that supply the iris; or this may arise from anomalies of the retina, demanding a less active reflex-action of the pupil. A combination of these causes often occurs. The " p.ipil is fixed,'' when it remains immov- able on being exposed to the stimulus of light. This may be from adhesions only, or from anoma- lies of innervation. For anomalies of mobility see Mydriasis and Mvosis. The size of the pupil bears no relation to the vascularity of the iris, for it may be wide or narrow, with but little blood in the iris. Hippits or Nystagmus of the iris designates a rapid succession of contraction and dilatation of the pupil, independent of the stimulus of light, as is occasionally observed in hypereesthesia of the retina, and in hydrocephalus. Iridodonesis (tremulous iris) is observed if the iris loses the support of the ciystalline lens, whether from dislocation or removal of the latter, or from paralysis or from enlargement of the "posterior chamber," and some portions only of the iris may be tremulous, others not. The pupil in health is round. It is " irregular " if portions of its margin advance more into its area than others. Irregularities are produced through adhesions, or as a result of paralysis or paresis of only some of the fibres forming the iris. The former are always caused by an attack of iritis, and the latter are observed in presbyopic or hypermetropic persons when attempting to look at objects held close. The colour of the area of the pupil varies with the time of life, and chiefly depends upon .iltera- tions in the colour of tlie lens and vitreous sub- stance, and also of the surrounding tunics. Its area is " clear " or black in he:iltliy eyes, if the pupil is contracted and examined with the unaided eye, though in old persmis it becomes slightly f-reyish. Its colour should however be asceruvined by lateral illumination, when even m the young eye it appears somewhat greyish, provided the lens which reflects some of the light thrown into