mucli pntrnnised hy the puWio for a time, and his applic.-ition remained a secret. Many persons snb- mitted to a very protracted and painful proceeding, hut it was not many months before it was shown by the return of the disease that the promised cure was a vain deceit. The paste employed was said to be made of a plant employed by the native women in the American prairies, named Puccoon, and known to botanists as the Sanguinaria Cana- densis. It very soon appeared, however, that this was a mere colouring matter, and that the real power of the paste was due to chloride of zinc. Dr. Fell had, if not an original, at least an un- usual mode of applying this caustic. Having de- stroyed the skin over the tumor with nitric acid, a laver of the paste was applied. The dead tissue thus obtained was scored by the scalpel, and fresh paste introduced in the interspaces. This pro- ceeding had to be repeated several times, and it was generally six weeks before the tumor was thus destroyed. The pain of these applications has been described as frightful, and seeing that no immunity from a recurrence of the disease was ob- tained, it is not surprising that no surgeon would now sanction, much less recommend, so barbarous a method of removing tumors.] Both in scirrhous and medullarjr cancer, albu- men is the principal component of the nrw adven- titious substance. In a piper, inserted by Dr. Ure in the Med. Gaz. of Dec. 1835, it was shown that chloride of zinc (a means emplo3'ed by Dr. Canquoin, of Paris, in the treatment of cancer) has a very powerful affinity for albumen ; and Dr. Ure ascribes a part of its efficacy in eradicating the ultimate ramifications of cancerous tumors to its powerful action on albumen. "In this way (he thinks) numerous minute points, undiscoverable by the surgeon, and inaccessible to his knife, are searched out and destroyed." The cases, to which the chloride of zinc seems to him best adapted, are subcutaneous and cutaneous cancers, and cases of 7ioli vie tangere {lupus). To its great use in de- stroying the tubercles, which form, in the latter disease, I can bear testimony, having tried it with great success in several instances. Dr. Ure pre- fers a paste composed of one part of chloride of zinc, and of two parts of recently-calcined sul- phate (if lime. Dr. Canquoin mixes the chloride of ZT,c with flour. (See Lond. Med, Gaz vol. xviii. p. 207.) The Dr. Ure here alluded to was Mr. Alexander ZINC. 101.3 Ure, afterwards surgeon to St. Mary's Hospital, and son of the celebrated clicmist, Dr. Andrew Ure. Mr. Ure died in 18G6. At the Cancer Hospital the writer has used for some time lint saturated with chloride of zinc, and dried so far as it will dry, the salt being very deliquescent. This he has found to bo a very con- venient form; and perfectly efficacious. It is kept in a wooden box, and lasts any time. It may be used in the smallest pieces to the inner canthus of the eye and eyelids especially with much safety, and indeed to any part of the face or other delicate external structure affected by either epithelioma or lupus, or the extending growths of cancer, or even wart. The smallest piece put on and covered by lint, upon which the old ceratum resinte is spread, may be readily kept in its place, and the full effects will be obtained in twenty-four hours. Although doubting much the existence of any elective power in this or any other caustic, and believing that the destructive influence is exerted in an equal degree upon all the tissues, the reviser of this article, from his experience of several, pre- fers the chloride of zinc and the permanganate of potash to any of the other caustics, because they are the most manageable, are very effective, and exempt from those possible dangers which may and do arise in the case of mercurial and arsenical caustics. Deaths have arisen from the absorption of these latter substances, and a long array of them, as due to arsenic, may be found recorded by Dr! Alfred Taylor in the Guy's Hospital Reports for 1864 ; whilst cases of extreme salivation, result- mg in death, from the external application of the acid nitrate of mercury, are related in the journals. Epitheliomn, affecting as it does the lips and cheeks, the hand, the penis, the anus, and other external parts, may be successfully attacked by either the chloride of zinc or the permanganate of potash ; and in a great many instances this disease thus treated, the constitution being at the same time supported by appropriate tonics and food, may be checked (or many years, if not altogether over- come. Lupus also is amenable to the same treat, ment. The latest combination of zinc is that of the carbolate introduced by Dr. Sanson, and used by Mr. Woo^, at King's College Hospital with advantage in gonorrhoea, but it may be doubted whether the carbolates have any special advantages over the chlorides.] " Wceden Coohe. TUK END. i.ownnrr: rniNTKn hy ."SPOTTIRWOOT)!! ANn CO., NKW-RTIIKKT (ItJCAIlE AND p,\nr,iAr.ir.rrT btiii57!T