556 VENEREA I. " The acid that I have used of Inte (says Dr. Scott) is the nitro-niuriatic; and it is formed by mixing together equal parts of tlie nitric and muriatic acids. If these acids be in the state of concentration that they usually possess in the shops, and if the quantities be considerable, a great volume of gas is developed on their coming into contact, which taints every part of a house, is extremely hurtful to the lungs, and disagreeable to the smell. To avoid this inconve- nience, I put a quantity of water, at least equal in bulk to both the acids, into a bottle, and I add the acids to it separatel}'. This method does not only prevent the unpleasant odour, but it tends to re- tain the chlorine, on which its effects depend. It is well known that the nitro-rauriatic acid acts very readily on the metals and earths; nothing,therefore, but glass, or extremely well-glazed vessels of por- celain, should be used to contain it. (See Joum. of Science and the Arts, vol. i. pp. 205-211; Lond, Med. Repos. vol. vii. p. 59; and Med. CMr. Trans. vol. viii. p. 173, et seq.y The only important conclusion which I venture to draw from Dr. Scott's observations, is a con« firmation of the fact of the generally curable na- ture of 8)'philitic diseases without the aid of mer- cury. And I further believe that, though the nitro- muriatic acid bath is sometimes useful, the surest way of bringing it into discredit is to represent it as applicable to all forms of syphilis, for which neither this remedy, nor even mercury itself, will ever suffice. The muriates of gold and platina have been much commended of late years ; but after the facts detailed in this article^more espe- cially the general curability of the venereal disease A DISEASE. without mercury, the frequently noxious infliienee of this mineral, so as to derange the health and impede the cure, and the marked benefit which often then follows its discontinusince and the sub- stitution of other means for it—the alleged su- periority of new remedies must be received with suspicion, and, in particular, the idea of their spe- cific power over the venereal disease. 1 have already said that the iodide of potassium, with sarsaparilla, is more employed than mercury in the treatment of tertiary venereal complaints, and that even in secondary symptoms, where the bones are implicated, and mercury has been already tried, the surgeon will generally act wisely who decides in favour of not resorting to it again. [The foregoing pages comprise all that was known and accepted of the pathology and treatment of the venereal disease in Mr. Cooper's time. Through- out this able narrative he has of necessity fre- quently referred to the opinions of Mr. Carmichael, Mr. Wallace, and M. Ricord, in addition to those of Hunter and the army and other surgeons. It has appeared to the editor that a tabular view of the opinions of the three first of these original writers on the venereal disease, which have had so much influence in modifying the opinions of the Hunterian school, might with advantage be added here, as serving more completely to mark the dis- tinction between the view* entertained at the date of the last edition of this dictionary, and those which have since been introduced. After these tables the more modern views will be fully con- sidered.] TABULAR VIEW OF MR. CARMICHAEL'S OPINIONS. induration or Primary symptovis. 1. The simple ulcer, without raised edges. 2. Gonorrhoea virulenta. 3. Patchy excoriation of the glans or prepuce, attended with discharge. 4. Bilboes. Papular Venereal Diseass. Secondary symptoms. 1. Papular eruption preceded by fever, and ending in desquamation. 2. Erethematous inflammation of the fauces. 3. Swelling of the tonsils and glands of the neck. 4. Pains in the larger joints, resembling rheu- matism. 5. Iritis. Primary symptoms. 1. The ulcer with elevated edges, without indu- ration. 2. Buboes. Pustular Venereal Disease. Secondary symptoms. 1. Pustular eruption preceded by fever, and ter- minating in ulcers covered with thin crusts, that heal from their margins; and when the disease is on the wane, the eruption desquamates into scaly red blotches. 2. Ulcers on the fauces, in general of a white apthous appearance. 3. Pains in the joints. 4. Nodes. 1 Primary symptoms 1. The phagedenic ulcer. Tubercular or Phagedknic Venereal Disease. Secondary symptoms. 1. Eruption of tubercles preceded by fever, and terminating in ulcers, often covered with conical crusts. The ulcers spread with a phagedenic mar- gin and heal from their centre. When the disease is on the wane they sometimes desquamate into scaly red blotches. I