^22 SPINE, CURVATURES OF. exists I'n some instances. The cases included in tills class maj' be arranged in two subdivisions : a. Cases de.pending upon induced conslilutional or general delnlily, eoniltincd ivil/t local causes acting mechanically, stcch as described in Class 3; and li. T/iosg clearly of a rachitic citaractcr. a. Lateral curvati.ire of the spine, in the first series of cases, generally occurs between the ages of twelve and sixteen years, in quickli'-growing girls, not of ro- bust appearance, but without any well-marked strumous diathesis or hereditary predisposition ; thouo;h occasionally one or both of these condi- tions will be found to exist. This is the class of cases generally described by authors on lateral curvature as depending upon muscular and liga- mentous debility. They constitute the popular form of lateral curvature of the spine, not only from the frequency with which they occur, but from the alarm and often groundless apprehension of deformity which a little spinal weakness at this period of life occasions. In books it unfortunately happens that the descriptions of lateral curvature are nearly always taken from these cases, as if they were the universal type of this affection; and consequently we find one plan of treatment only reommended for all cases, a most serious practical error. In this series, also, are generally included that large class of cases which might be more pro- perly described as weak spines, and which certainly hi.ve no claims to be co. sidered as examples of Literal curvature of the spine. There can be no d(mbt that weak spines frequently pass into or be- come cases of confirmed lateral curvature, but, ac- cording to ray observation and experience, such is r.'ther the exception than the rule, and that cer- t inly move than half the total number of cases of la eral curvature met with in practice are neither J receded nor accompanied by any such condition ( f general muscular debility, b. The second series includes cases of lateral curvature clearly of a rachitic character, i.e. associated with the general rachitic conformation of skeleton, and the cur- vatures of the long bones of both the upper and lower extremiti.ea invariably occurring in this affec- tion ; more especially the dwarfishness of stature and general arrest of development of the bones, most conspicuous in the legs and pelvis; the cur- vatures of the leg bones, and to a less extent of the bones .of the upper extremities, with the en- larged epiphyses; the deformity of the pelvis; and the general conformation of the skull, &c. This rachitic condition is seldom hereditary, and is generally dependent upon imperfect lactation. The worst cases which have come under my ob- servation have occurred either in the children of healthy parents, or'of somewhat delicate but not rachitic parents; and generally only one child is thus affected in a family, the other children being perfectly healthy; occasionally I have seen two or three cases in the same family, and in a few in- stances all the children in the same family are more or less affected. In every instance, how- ever, imperfect lactation has been clearly traceable, the mother's milk being insufficient in quantity, and poor in quality, the children have generally been lialf suckled and half fed, the food being of a farinaceous kind, such as tops and bottoms, vari- ous kinds of biscuits, &c., all of which are un- snited to the requirements of the child during its peiiod of early growth and rapid osseous develop- ment. I believe rickets, therefore, to be an in- duced and not an hereditary constitutional condi- tion. Lateral curvature of the spine in these cases very rarely occurs at an early period, so far as my experience has gone. I have never seen rickety curvature of the spine in the child, and in several cases of rickets in its worst forms in chil- dren from four to ten or twelve years of age, the spines are still free from lateral deviation, though the older cases exhibit rather severe lordosio, yet in nearly all the rickety adult specimens in'mu- seums, severe lateral curvature forms a conspicuous part of the general deformity. I conclude, there- fore, that in cases of rickets, the lateral deviation of the spine usually takes place towards the com- pletion of growth, say from fifteen to eighteen years of age, and continues gradually to increase long after that period, perhaps even through life, when the equilibrium of the spine has been for a long time disturbed by the deformity of the legs, which are generally of unequal lengths, by the in- creasing deformity of the feet—rachitic Valgus— and by the deformity of the pelvis. It must be especially borne in mind that it is only in the class of true rachitic curvatures that any distortion of the pelvis takes place, and, therefore, it is only in these ciises that any risk to life exists from pregnancy. The importance of clearly defining these cases, and the evidence upon which our opinion should be based in deciding upon the true rachitic character of any case of lateral curvature of the spine, has been already adverted to in connection with the question of special liability to lateral curvature, in conse- quence of the affection of the bones in rachitic cases; and also in connection with the question of pelvic deformity, and its influence on child- bearing. 3rd Class.—Cases essentially depetiding upon local causes actinq mechanically so as to disturb the equilibrium of the spinal column.—Lateral curva- ture in these cases may occur at any period of life, though most apt to form in a severe degree pre- vious to the completion of growth. The cases which it is proposed to include in this class are essentially unconnected with any constitutional affection, or hereditary predisposition, and fre- quently coexist with the full natural amount of muscular strength. The local causes which most frequently produce lateral curvature of the spine in this class are the long continuance of certain had positions which may be either acquired as bad habits, or rendered ne- cessary by a defective educational system, or cer- tain occupations. As examples of the former should be mentioned standing on one hg, which is frequently acquired as a mere habit by growing girls. This may produce curvature of the spine even in girls possessing the full natural amount of muscular strength, though it would do so more readily in those who exhibit some muscular de- bility, such as the cases included in the second class. The long continuance of Vie sitting and stooping position during education ; spinal curva- ture is frequently seen in young ladies who do not exhibit any want of muscular strength, hut have been in the habit of sitting as jnuch as eight hours a day to masters at school, and also in girls who devote most of the day to drawing and writing. The habit of silting cross-legged which some young ladies adopt for several hours a day whilst read- ing, with a book placed on the knee, one elbow