is likely to prove so effectual as tlie unguentiira h_vdrargyri nitratis whidi should be used liere in the same manner in which it is applied in common cases of psorophthalmy. It will be proper to cleanse the eyelids every morning from the gum that collects on their edges during the night, with some soft unctuous applications; and I usually apply to them two or three times in the course of the daj', a lotion composed of three grains of white vitriol, in two ounces of rose or elder-flower water." Ad- dilional Remarks on the Epiphora. Some interesting remarks have Leen made by M. Nicod, whicli perfectly accord with the senti- ment already expressed, that whatever may be its primary seat, the chronic inflammation is not gene- rally limited to the inside of the eyelids, but ex- tends throughout the membranous lining of the sac and nasal duct; and that this circumstance, in conjunction with the altered and viscid nature of the secretions, accounts for their not readily de- scending into the nose, but regurgitating through the puncta. M. Nicod also relates cases exem- plifying that the ointment applied to the inside of the eyelids actually passes with the matter into the lachrymal sac, and thence into the nose, so as to act upon and cure the chronic inflammation of the sac and nasal duct, as well as that of the Meibomian glands and lining of the eyelids. (See Revite Medicale Historique, ct'c. t. i. p. 156. Ovo. Paris, 1820.) The proceedings for adoption, when the nasal duct is obstructed, will now be considered. Obstruction of the Nasal Duct.—That a perma- ment closure of this canal does not so frequently attend diseases of the lachrj'mal organs, as writers have generally imagined, must be evident from the remarks already delivered; and also that its per- viousness, when interrupted partly by inflammation and thickening of its lining, and partly by the viscid curdy nature of the matter, may often be restored without thrusting any probes, tubes, or other instruments down the passage (measures more hkely, under these circumstances, to do harm than good), is a fact which is no longer question- able. If the inflammation of the sac be treated at first on right principles, " the cases requiring operation will bo very few." (See Lawrence on Dts. of the Eye, p. 711.) The treatment, neces- sary in such case.', must be already intelligible from what has been said in the preceding sections; the indication being the diminution of the thick- ened state of the mucous membrane, by means adapted to the acute or chronic form of the inflam- mation, and, in many cases, the correction also of the morbid state of the Meibomian glands and internal membrane of the eyelids. It is only when the treatment conducted upon these mild PJ''""P'es, is found ineff^ectual, that the surgeon should thmk of examining the state of the nasal duct, and learning, by the introduction of a fine probe into the passnge, whether any permament stricture or obstruction is present. This may take place as a consequence of acute or chronic of rr'''r ' ■""J' V^oAn^^i by extension of disea e from the nose. It comes on occasionally in the atter way m strumous children. Inflam- mation begins in the Schneiderian membrane, and "V" '"""S 'he sac; a case, in which the sulphate of quinine is particularly ser- viceable. (See Lawrence, I op. cit. p. 710.) I have TlT^'^'l 'f'^P''''' ^ remanent ob- struction of the nasal duct arose from syphilitic LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF jg; disease of the nose, or the pressure of polypi. Sun- posing there IS no direct opening through the skin into the lachrymal sac, one should be made with a lancet. A mere puncture will suffice, as a large incision, beginning just below the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and extending in a semilunar form, nearly an inch downwards and outwards, as used to be the old practice, can here answer no rational object, the surgeon merely having occasion for a small direct opening through which he may conveniently pass a small probe, for the purpose of ascertaining the state of the nasal duct. " The probe (as Dr. Mackenzie observes) is to be introduced horizontally, till it touches the nasal side of the sac ; it should then be raised into a vertical position, and its point directed down- wards and a little backwards. Turning the probe upon its axis, we pass it from the sac into the duct; and as we continue to press it gently down- wards, the instrument, if the sac is pervious, enters the nose. If its point meets with some obstruction, we must not immediately conclude that there is an obliteration of the duct. We must press down the probe a little more strongly, yet without vio- lence, turning it round between the fingers, and giving it different directions. By these means the obstacle is frequently overcome, and the probe suddenly descends. If the obstacle remains as before, and is extremely firm, still this is not suffi- cient ground for us to conclude that there is a real obliteration," because, as the author proceeds to point out, the difficulty may arise from a mere thickening of the mucous membrane, and swelling and induration of its cryptae. {Mackenzie on the Lachrymal Organs, p. 78.) Beer is of opinion that the mechanical treatment with catgut, bougies, canulse, &c., will only an- swer when attention is paid to rectifying the morbid state of the mucous membrane of the la- chrymal sac by means of suitable applications, the uso of which, he thinks, ought to commence first with the employment of catgut, which he preferred to canulae, bougies, &c. And he adds, that even such treatment will only succeed, when the di- seased state of the membrane of the sac is entirely a local complaint, and uncomplicated with an un- favourable condition of the health. In the begin- ning, if the probe can be introduced without any great trouble, and the lining of the duct is onlv trivially thickened, Beer moistens the catgut on its daily introduction into the passage, with the vinous tincture of opium, and injects into the sac a tepid lotion, containing subacetate of copper, nitrate of potass, alum, camphor, and vinum opii. When the probe meets with more resistance, the catgut is smeared with the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis which is to be at first weakened, and afterwards' gradually increased in strength. Some of the fol- lowing lotion is to be injected down the sac twice a day. ^ Aq. ros. 5 iv. Ilydiarg. bichlor. gr. ss. gr. j. Mucil. pur. 3 j. Vinii opii 9 j. M. When any irregu- larities and indurated points arc felt with the probe in the course of the nasal duct. Beer smears the catgut with an ointment, containing a small quan- tity of red precipitate, and directs friction with n little camphorated mercurial ointment to bo em- ployed every day round the external opening. Beer joins the generality of writers in believing that a long perseverance in the mechanical means ' is necessary, in order to remove all disposition in the nasal duct to close again. (P. 17G.)