IRIS, PROLAPSUS OF. 106 crescent—skirting some portion of the margin of the cornea. ! Coloboma is the name given to a congenital mal- formation of the iris, whereby tiie border of the pupil is left incomplete at one part, the aperture therefore assuming a pyriforra figure, lengthened out to the margin of the cornea. The cleft most frequently exists at the lower part of the iris, but occasionally it extends upwards or in a lateral direction. It usually coexists in both eyes. Sometimes the pupil, retaining its rounded form, is placed close to the margin, instead of opposite to the centre of the cornea. It is said that in' rare instances the " pupillary membrane " which exists in the foetus is not wholly absorbed at birth; and its persistence may give rise to a belief tliat the infiint is the subject of congenital cataract." {Dixon, Diseases of the Eye, A small tumour, portion of the iris lliSS, p. 117-119.)] C. Bader. IRIS, INJURIES OF. (See Art. Eye, Injuries of.) IRIS, PROLAPSUS OF. formed by the protrusion of a through an opening in the cornea. It is some- times named staphyloma of the iris. The pro- trusion of the whole iris, after the destruction of the entire cornea by sloughing, is termed staphy- loma racemosum. A small prolapsus, forming a brownish tumour, compared to a fly's head, is called myocephalon. The causes of this complaint are such wounds and ulcers of the cornea as make an opening of a certain extent into the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, and violent contusions of the eyeball, occasioning a rupture of the cornea. If the edges of a wound in this situation, whether accidental, or made for the purpose of extracting a cataract, or evacuating the matter of hypo- piura, be not brought immediately afterwards into reciprocal contact, or continue not sufHciently agglutinated together to prevent the escape o the aqueous humour from the anterior chamber, regularly as this fluid is reproduced, the iris, drawn by its continual flux towards the cornea, glides between the lips of the wound, becomes elongated, and a portion of it gradually pro trudes beyond the cornea, in the form of a small tumour. The same thing takes place whenever the eyeball imfortunately receives a blow, or is too much compressed by bandages, during the existence of a recent wound of the cornea. Also if the patient should be affected, in this circum- stance, with a spasm of the muscles of the eye, with violent and repeated vomiting, or with strong and frequent coughing, a prolapsus of the ins may be caused. "When an ulcer of the cornea penetrates the anterior chamber, the same inc-on- venience happens more frequently than when there is a recent wound of that membrane; for the solution of continuity in the cornea, arising ■from an ulcer, is attended with loss of substance, and, in a membrane so tense and compact as this is, the edges of an ulcer do not admit of being brought into mutual contact. _ In i.urulent and scrofulous ophthalmia, where a minute ulceration of the cornea often occurs the extensive iinplicntion of the ins, and conse quent Btrabisnius, Mr. R. Welbank conceives might be prevented bv the early application belladonna; and "perhaps (he adds) where the ulceration is remote from the circumference of the corner., and very small, the iris may be kept wholly disengaged, till processes of reparation prevent the risk of protrusion." {Note in Frivlc's Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, ed. 2, p. 11, 6.) The little tumour is of the same colour as the iris, viz. brown or greyish, being surrounded at its base by an opaque circle of the cornea, on which membrane there is an ulcer, or a wound of not a very recent description. As it usually happens that the cornea is only penetrated at one part of its circumference by a wound or ulcer, only one prolapsus of the iris is commonly met with in the same eye. But if the cornea should happen to be wounded, or ulcerated, at several distinct points, the iris may protrude at several different places in the same eye, forming an equal number of small pro- jecting tumours on the surface of the cornea. Scarpa saw a patient who had three very distinct protrusions of the iris on the same cornea, in con- sequence of three separate ulcers penetrating the anterior chamber, one in the upper, and two in the lower segment of the cornea. In the incipient state of the disease, the patient complains of a pain, similar to what would arise from a pin penetrating the eye ; next he begins to experience, at the same time, an oppressive sen- sation of tightness, or constriction, over the whole eyeball. Inflammation of the conjunctiva and eyelids, a burning effusion of tears, and an absolute nability to endure the light, successively take place. As the protruded portion of the iris drags after it all the rest of this membrane, the pupil assumes an oval shape, and deviates from the centre of the iris towards the seat of the prolapsus. The intensity of the pain, produced by the inflam- mation and other symptoms, do not, however, always continue to increase. Indeed, old protru- sions of the iris are often noticed, where, after the disease has been left to itself, the pain and inflam- mation spontaneously subside, and the tumour becomes nearly insensible. But where the pro- lapsus of the iris remains, as a consequence of previous inflammation of the eye. Beer confesses that it cannot be cured, without a partial adhesion of the iris to the cornea being left, and a dense scar on the latter membrane in the situation of the protruded iris. As Dr. Mackenzie says, it is often impossible to effect the replacement; indeed, Mr. Lawrence states, that he has never seen it accomplished. '• We may, however, occasionally succeed by the following means, if they be employed within an hour or two after the accident, and especially if it is the pupillary portion of the iris which is pro- lapsed. We find the eye already inflamed, in- tolerant of light, and probably acutely painful. The cornea will in general be more or less flaccid, and, on attempting to fix the eye, a farther dis- charge of aqueous humour is apt to follow. The first means to be had recourse to, is gentle friction of the eye through the eyelid, continued for the space of about half a minute, and then sudden exposure of the eye to a bright light. If this does not suc- ceed, we may endeavour with a small blunt probe to lift one edge of the wound, and push the ins into the anterior chamber ; and then, whether we succeed or not with the probe, repeat the friction I of the eye and the exposure to bright light. If the wound is so situated between the centre and