RICTURE OF. 834 URETHRA, ST quent thereupon; or the urethra is so acutely sensitive that existence is rendered inexpressibly miseriible by the torture which the patient has constantly to endure, and the introduction of sounds, instead of producing any beneficial effect, increases the evil, and exaggerates the symptoms. The question is therefore unavoidably presented : what further resources does surgery offer tor these cases ? This leads to other sections oi the subject: the employment of caustic agents m the treat- ment of strictures. , j ^ Various active agents have heen employed at different times during the last three centuries, for the purpose of destroying, as it was supposed, by their caustic power, obstinate strictures of the urethra. They were described by A. Veni, A. Lusitanus, A. Lacuna, De Vega,Diaz, and others; subsequently by A. Pare, and by R. Wiseman. Antiinonv, verdigris, quicklime, arsenic, savine, and many other active bodies were thus used. John Hunter brou!,'ht the practice into note in this country at the latter part of the last century, using first red precipitate, and then nitrate of silver, and applving the latter by attaching a small portion to the softened end of the wax bougie. Following him, Sir Everard Home pursued the same method, but employed it much more extensively, not re- stricting it to the few and exceptional cases to which alone it had been applied by Hunter. After this, in 1804, Mr. Wiiateley published a small volume, in order to advocate the superiority of the pota-^sa fusa, as a chemical agent, to the nitrate of silver. He believed that " caustic m any form or quantity ought not to be used, till a "bougie, a little larger than one of the finest size, can be passed through all the strictures into the ' bladder," lest retention should be caused ; and makes this proceeding an indispensable pre- requisite to the operation, stating, " that in the worst and most contracted strictures he had ever met with, he had sooner or later almost uuifonnly succeeded in procuring a passage into the bladder by means of fine bougies." At no time is the particle of caustic potash to exceed m weight the twelfth of a grain. He also appears to be the first who system- atically applied caustic to the inner surface of the stricture, which he did by applying to the end of a bounie of the smallest size, fi.st a little glue, and then bome finely-powdered nitrate of silver ; after which " it may," he says, " be readily passed into, or a little beyond, such strictures as are extremely narrow." Subsequently, Dr. James Arnott improved upon his practice, employing more complicated and more perfect apparatus for applying the same agent. In France, the employment of caustic was re- vived in modern times by Ducamp who in a wodc on Ratention of Urine, published in l<i;-.2, ad- vocated Dr. Arnott's treatment at considerable length, although without acknowledging the author, and made some very slight additions to his own. Subsequently, Lallemand, Segalas, and others, have suggested numerous modifications of the in- stnimeiits. , . The late Mr. B. Phillips advocated in this country, at a more recent period, the use of nitrate of silver in stricture, always advocating its intro- duction within the narrowed part, and reprobating its application to the face of an obstruction to ■which insirmnents had been unsuccessfully ap- plied. Subscquentlv he retracted his advocacy of this agent, and declared that after further experi- ence he prel'urred dilatation. {Med. Gazette, 1B43.) At the present time Mr. Wade chiefly has practised the use of the caustic potash, and has expressed himself very strongly in its favour. He applies it after the mode recommended by Whaie- ley, which has been already fully described, but in larger quantities, varying, according to circum- stanci-s, from an eighth of a grain to_ one grain, most commonly employing about a sixth for the purpose. Several other surgeons have recorded favourable opinions of this agent, but mainly recommend it for those instances in which they have been un- able to introduce an instrument into or through the stricture by any other means. This condition of so-called impermeability is, however, uow ad- mitted by most to be extremely rare, and is safely resolved by careful and gentle instrumental manipu- lation, without other means, in nearly all, if not in all, examples of the disease. Hence on this ground the indication for the use of the caustic potash must be regarded as extremely bmited. Claims have been also made on behalf of its utility in cases where the stricture has been unusually irritable or non-dilatable. Little evidence in sup- port of this view appears to exist, while it is quite certain that a degree of risk of exciting inflam- mation of the urethra, or of producing sloughing of its walls, as 1 have had occasion to observe myself is incurred by its employment. Respecting the nitrate of silver, little need be said, since in modern surgery it scarcely hnds an advocate either in this country or abroad. The confidence formerly placed in agents of this natiu^e has of late years diminished, especially as the success of other means has rendered recourse to caustics less frequent. For myself, I have no hesitation in believing their employment to be wholly useless, and therefore undesirable. The Treatment by Incisioas —Tnternal Urethrotomy. —At a very early date (15th or 16th century) internal incisions were employed, but were gene- rally associated with escharotics, for the cure of stricture. About a century ago, the perforation ot a stricture, supposed to be otherwise impassable, was accomplished by means of a trocar (Chopart). Lanceted stilets were employed for the same purpose by Physick, of Philadelphia, m I / 9.). At the commencement of the present ceiiUiry, the Bells and others describe modifications ot these in- struments. In 1027 the practice was revived, and subsequently perfected by Mr. Stafford, who for many years adopted and advocated cutting instni- nients for stricture; not only perforating from before backwards, but dividing them in some cases from behind forwards. Mr. Guthrie and others have since employed them in this country; while in France innumerable forms of the nrethiotoine, iiiid many modes of employing them, have beeii in favour during the last thirty or forty years, i he principal of these have been known as the pro- ceedings of Ducamp, Amussat, Leioy, Civia e, Sedillot, llicord. Bonnet, Mercer, R^vf/ "f Maisonneuve. It is i"n«f l'l<>. ;"'<i'"f«f/.' ' unnecessary, to describe them all. ""^ ' ''f difficult to select one or two as m^f ^^'J^l^^^^^^ promising that the remainder are modifications ol minor importance.