SUPPURATION self, and must be convinced, that, in order to carry on the decompositions iind combinations necessary for producing this effect, either a new or peculiar structure of vessels must be formed, or a new dis- position, and, of course, a new mode of action of the old, must take place. This new structure, or disposition of vessels, I shall call glandular, and the effect, or pus, a secrttion." However, as Professor Carswell justly observes, this glandular structure to which the French pathologists give the name of tissu pyogeniqtie, is by no means neces- sary for the production of pus. (See Illustrations of the Elem. Forms of Disease, fasc. 8.) Gendrin has entered into a minute account of the process of suppuration. He excited inflam- mation in the web of the frog's foot, and in the mesentery, by means of boiling water, the actual cautery, and the seton, and followed with the mi- croscope the gradual development of pus from the globules of the blood. He affirms, that he dis- tinctly saw the globules of the blood, after they had become stagnant in the capillaries, lose their colouring envelope, become opaque, and assume a yellowish grey colour, approaching to that of pus. He traced them moving slowly in the capillaries, or in new formed vessels ; and, as they advanced to- wards the edge of the ulcer, or eschar, occasioned by the violence of the inflammation, gradually ac- quiring all the physical characters of perfect pus. Previously to the investigations of M. Gendrin, Kaltenbriinner arrived at nearly the same results. "The microscopical researches of this author, however, would seem to show, that not only is the blood, which is carried into the inflamed tissue, but likewise a portion of the solids, converted into pua; for lie states, that small granular bodies are seen to separate from the parenchyma, to pass into canals which are formed for their reception, and to mingle with others of a similar kind coming from the blood, both of which are converted into true granules of pus.'' The facts elicited, appear to Dr. Carswell to leave no doubt, " that the formation of pus is a consequence of a modifi- cation of the blood, manifested more especially by a change taking place in the colour, transparency, and bulk of the globules of this fluid, after its cir- culation has been arrested in the capillaries hy in- fianimation; thai this change in the globules takes place in tlie capillary vessels; and that these ves- sels conduct the globules in this state to the exte- rior, where they appear to be combined with the serum of the blood, under a peculiar liquid form, or that which we call pus." (R. Carswell, Op. eit.) Dupuytren's views of suppuration concur with those of Kaltenbriinner, in respect to its consisting in part of a dissolution of the solids. " If," says he, " the inflammatory action is not stopped, or dimi- nished, the tissues affected soften, and, being de- stroyed, mix with the blood, which penetrates them; forming a pulpy substance, which, by further elaborations, is gradually converted into pus. This fluid is originally formed both of the wrecks of the solids of the inflamed organs and of the elements of the blood, which have entered into new combin- ations. These two kinds of materials are readily distinguishable in the commencement of suppu- ration, which is at first bloody, and, in certain organs, the texture of which presents very marked qualities, diflicult to annihilate, carries along with it manifest vestigea of portions of their parenchyma. 637 For example, suppuration of the liver is almost always of a brownish red colour, and contains particles of the substance of that organ, imparting to the pus the consistence and appearance of the lees of wine." It is only, however, in the early stage of suppuration, that the colouring matter of the blood, and the wreck of textures, are repre- sented by Dupuytren to be discernible. (See Diet, de Med. etde Chir. t. i. p. 5.) Whatever may be thought of this doctrine, with regard to suppuration in some situations, it does not appear to nie at all applicable to suppura- tions from inflamed mucous membrane.?, or even to those common cases where abscesses are furnished with a distinct membranous cyst, resembling a mucous membrane. Here certainly we cannot suppose that the solids are softened, or any par- ticles of the inflamed texture commixed with the pus. The same observation may be extended to a serous, or any other free surface, in a state of sup- puration, but not attended with ulceration, or loss of substance. Besides the formation of pus by a process com- pared to those of secretion, some pathologists admit another mode, whereby pus appears as if it were produced in the blood, "under circumstances in which the influence of the capillary system, as ex- ercising a function of secretion, can have no part." This mode of formation, Dr. Carswell proposes to call extravascular, some evidence of which, he re- marks, is manifest in the observations delivered by him^in the notice of the microscopical observa- tions made by Gendrin and Kaltenbrunner. " Thus we have seen that, besides the conversion of the globules of the blood, contained in the capillaries, into pus, there was also observed a similar change in those of the blood, effused into the cellular tissue around these vessels. In fact, the whole of the blood, intra and extravascular, was seen to undergo the same gradual change of colour from red to yellowish grey; the glo- bules in both situations became opaque, acquired an increase of bulk, and passed slowly towards the surface of the part, either in the original or new-formed capillary vessels in the form' of pus." Dr. Carswell has, on several occasions, been able to satisfy himself, that this mode of for- mation of pus often takes place to a considerable extent in blood effused into the celluLir tissue from external violence, and followed by acute in- flammation; but he has most frequently observed it in the blood which has ceased to circulate in inflamed veins. (See Veins.) He considers Gendrin's experiments a complete proof of this fact. "If," observes this last author, "after having injected a great quantity of blood into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, a seton is passed through the same tissue, in order to excite a cer- tain degree of inflammation, the blood is rapidly converted into pus, as if it had escaped from the vessels themselves of the part.'' (See Carswell's Illustralions of the Ekmentari/ Forms of Disease • Gendrin, Hist. Anat. dus In/htmmations, c^-c.) The doctrine of the conversion of the blood into pus in inflamed vessels of large dimensions, seems to bo confirmed, not only by what happens in phlebiiis, but by the following experiment per- formed by Gendrin. "If (says he), after the circulation in an artery or vein lias been inter- rupted for an instant, a solution of nitrate of silver or caustic potash bo injected, and soon withdrawn'