INFLAMMATION. 80 lingual going to the gland, and irritated the nerve thus exposed. Promptly a profuse flow of saliva took place, insomucii that in a very short t-pace of time the quantity excreted exceeded the entire bulk of the gland, so that it was plain that the irritation gave rise to something more than the expulsion of a pent-up secretion, it evidently affected the secretion itself. Nor would increased blood-pressure account for this extra secretion ; for tlie pressure of the se- creted fluid in the duct exceeded the blood-pressure in the nutrient vessel as measured by the mano- meter. Moreover increase of pressure in the veins issuing from the gland had no eiTect in augmenting the secretion. 2. No reflex irritation of iJie suhmaxillarygland produced if the efferent nerve he cut.—In 1851 Moritz Scliiff studied the salivary secretion before and after section of tlie chorda tympani, and noted tiiat when it was divided there promptly followed a very abundant flow of saliva for a short period, which, however, speedily came to a standstill. After which acids and bitters, ether and galvanism, applied to the mouth failed to produce the salivary flow they are wont to do. The salivary flow ordi- narily thus brought about is a reflex act induced through the glosso-pharyngeal as incident nerve, and the facial and chorda tympani as efferent, and, the circle bein^ cut, stimulation fails to reach the gland. 3. Effect on the salivary gland of irritating the sympathetic. —But suppose the sympathetic irritated, as it may be, by galvanisation in the neck, the flow of saliva is momentarily increased, but speedily diminished. Moreover, as observed by Eckhard, instead of being limpid as when the chorda tym- pani and lingual are irritated, it is dense and very viscous, so as to hang from the canula in strings. Moreover, when the lingual and chorda tympani are excited, the veins issuing from the gland are filled with bright florid blood, they even sometimes pulsate synclironously with the heart during the excitation. In short the vessels are dilated. But with Faradisation of the sympatlietic, the gland becomes smaller and paler, the vessels cease to be visible, the veins carry away a black blood, the secretion momentarily increased promptly dimi- nishes and by-and-bye ceases. From such experiments it is clear that by stimu- • lating certain nerves the flow of saliva is increused, by slimulating others it is diminisiied and altered in character. It is tolerably clear, also, that there are certain changes in the blood-flow coincidciit with these. 4. Effect of dividing the sympathetic in the neck.— In 1727 Pourfonr du'Petit published (Memon-cst/e VAcadhnie des Sciences) certain remarkable observa- tions relating to section of the sympathetic nerve, but thomatterlay dormant till revived by ClaudeBernard sometime before 1!J51. (ClaudeBernard, Syslcnu: verveux, torn, ii., p. 474 ct seq.) This author says : " I have obseived that when in a mannnal we cut or tie in the middle of the neck the cord which joins the inferior and superior ganglion of the neck, one immediately observes that the tempera- ture increases in the whole corresponding side of the animars liead. This increase in temperature commences instantaneously, and developes so speedily that in a fu'w minutes, under certain cir- cumstances, one finds between the two sides of the head a dill'erence amounting to, in some cases, i or 6° Cent. Removal of the superior cervical ganglion is followed by the same calorific results as section of the nerve-cord, but invariably these eiFects are more speedy, more intense, and more lasting. . . . All the phenomena of elevated temperature and sensitiveness due to their removal were still very intense a year and a half after ex- tirpation of the ganglion, when the animal was slain for other purposes. "This difference of 4° or 5° is remarkable as the difference between the two sides of the face ; but if the temperature of these parts be compared with the temperature of the rectum, thorax, or the ab- domen, one sees they are nearly the same. At all events I have ascertained often enough that extir- pation of the sympathetic raised the temperature of the corresponding ears to 40° (104° F.), the normal temperature in the rectum of the same animal not exceeding 31)° or 39° C. (100-4° or 102"2° F.) " Some days later, and sometimes even on the morrow, this vascularityhas frequently considerably diminished, even though the heat of the face on that side continues to be much developed. This elevaticiii is not confined to the surface, but extends also even into the cranial cavity and brain substance, as shown by the thermometer, and the blood returning from those parts is of unwontedly high temperature. . , If the animals remained well, I have never seen after this experiment, even in the warmest parts, any subsequent oedema, or any morbid condition which one could attribute to what they call inflam- mation. I say when they remained well, for, in point of fact, whert they becme sick, whether spontaneously or after other operations they have undergone, one sees the mucous membranes of the eyes and nose, but only on the side on which the nerve has been cut, become very red and swollen, and produce much pus. The eyelids remain ha- bitually glued together by purulent mucus, and the nostril is frequently obstructed by it. _ If the animal gets well these morbid phenomena disappear with the return of health." (See p. 34.) 5. The effects of irritating the sympathetic in the neck were probably first investigated by Brown-Se'- quard ( Central Nervous System, p. 140). He enimie- rates the following conditions as resulting from it:— dilatation of the pupil, the eyelids are wide open, and the eyeball protrudes, the blood-vessels c.ui- tract, and the quantity of blood in the part dimi- nishes, the temperature is lowered and sensibility diminished. The view he adopts is that the increase in tlie quantity of blood on the one hand, and its diminu- tion on the other, with the corresponding variations of temperature, are due to paralysis and contraction respectively as affecting the minute arteries of the part. However, says he {op. cit., p. 143), " we are ready to acknowledge that there are other causes of active circulation in the head, after the sectiiui of the cervical sympathetic, beside paralysis of the blood-vessels. The very fact that there is more blood, producing an increase in nutrition and se- cretion—a fact which, we have said, depends upon the paralysis of blood-vessels—produces an increase in the normal sttctioji-power of the capillaries, la other words the greater afflux of arterial blood is itself, through the increased chemical changes of nutrition and secretion, a cause of attraction of arterial blood. To this another argument of the same kind ought to be added ; it is that as there is more blood, the temperature is increased, and us the