esting cases of fibroid polypus operated on by Mr. Tatum and Mr. Birkett will be met with in the British MedicalJoiunal for 1358, pp. 61 and 119, in which it was found necessary to remove the superior maxillary bone in order to reach the disease. It is remarkable that these, as well as the one already related, had an attachment to the basilar process of the occipital bone; and from hanging down into the pharynx while they extended also into the nostrils, have appropriately been named naso-pharyngeal. Another case of the kind, where no operation was performed, proved fatal by pressure, causing caries of the body of the sphenoid and basilar portion of the occipital bones, associated with abscesses in the brain.] Mr. J. Bell refutes the common notions, that polypi may be caused by picking the nose, blow- ing it too forcibly, colds, and local injuries. He asserts that a polypus is not in general a local, solitary tumor: he has only found it so in three or four instances. Both nostrils are usually af- fected. He states that no finger can-reach that part of the nostril where the root of the swelling ia situated, as it is deep and high in the nostrils, towards the throat, and near the opening of the Eustachian tube. The finger cannot be intro- duced further than the cartilaginous wing of the nose extends, and can hardly touch the anterior point of the lower spongy bone. The anterior and posterior chambers of the nostril are separated from each other by a nari'ow slit, which the finger can never pass, and which is divided, in conse- quence of the projection of the lower spongy bone, into two openings, one above, the other below. Through these the heads of the polypus project. These tangible parts of the tumor, however, are very distant from its root, which is in the highest and narrowest part of the nostril. (See pp. 103, 104.) Mr. J. Bell also says, that three or foiu- polypi are often crowded together in one nostril, while more are formed, or forming, in the other. He dwells upon the difficulty and inipracti- cableness of tying the root of a polypus; and ex- plains that, in all attempts to extirpate such tu- mors, the surgeon's aim should be to reach a point nearly under the socket of the eye, in the deepest and highest part of the nostrils,and that instruments can only do good when introduced beyond the narrow cleft, formed by the projection of the spongy bone. (P. 108.) Though Mr. John Bell is probably right in his opinion, that polypi do not proceed from the several circumstances wliich have been above noticed, yet most of them seem, except those of a malignant type, to be diseases entirely local. Certainly, in general, it is very difficult to say what is the cause of a nasal polypus. Frequently the patient is, in other respects, perfectly well; and, after the removal of the tuinor, no new one may make its ap- pearance. In this circumstance, it must originate from a local cause, though it is generally difficult to define what the nature of this is. Four modes of extirpating the ordinary benign nasal polypi have been practised: viz., extracting them with forceps; tying them with a ligature; cutting them out; and destroying them with caustic. Extrudiim is the most common method, and performed with forceps, the blades of which have holes in them, and are internally rather rough, or serrated at their edges, in order that they may take hold of the tumor more firmly, and not easily VOL. II. I'PUS. 465 slip ofi:' it. Some are straight; others slightly curved. The make of them has been of late years greatly improved, and especially by the construc- tion, which lets them be opened without expand- ing the nostril too much. It is generally deemed of importance to take hold of the polypus with the forceps close to its root; and, indeed, when this rule is observed, the whole of the polypus, together with its root, is extracted. When the polypus is not too large, the foregoing plan is often practicable. With respect to common gelatiiious polypi, they usually originate from between the upper and lovver turbinated bones, on the side of the antrum; and the best plan is, first to endeavour to ascertain with a probe the precise situation of the pedicle, which the forceps, guided by the probe, will then more readily grasp. Sir A. Cooper has never known an instance of the growth of a gelatinous polypus from the septum narium ; a fact highly worthy of recollection. In many instances, the tumor is so large, and the nostril so completely occupied by it, that its root can neither be felt, nor taken hold of with forceps. The polypus should then be grasped as high as possible. The consequences are of two kinds, The tumor sometimes gives way at its root, though it be only taken hold of at its anterior part; and, in other cases, breaks where it is grasped, a portion being left behind, in either case more or less profuse hsemorrhage ensuing. This is, however, void of danger, and the surgeon need not waste time in endeavouring to suppress the effusion of blood. In this way, a large polypus is frequently extracted, piecemeal, without any seri- ous loss of blood. In some cases, after the polypus has been pro- pelled as far forward into the nostrils as it can be by the patient blowing his nose, and the place of its root felt with a probe, its anterior part may be taken hold of with a ten.aculum forceps, held in the left hand; and if large may be drawn gradually and slowly out, to make room for the introduction of the polypus-forceps into the nostril. The more slowly we proceed in this manoeuvre, the more the polypus is elongated, and the narrower it becomes, the greater is the space in the nostril for the in- troduction of the polypus-forceps, and the higher can this instrument grasp the tumor. After the root of the polypus has been taken hold of with the polypus-forceps, or if this cannot be done, after the tumor has been grasped with the latter for- ceps, as high as possible, it is to be twisted slowljr roimd, and, at the same time, pulled outward, till it breaks. When the body of the polypus, and not the root, is grasped, it is a very important maxim, rather to twist the instrument than to pull it; and thus, rather to writhe the polypus ofi-", than to drag it out. The longer and more slowly the polypus-forceps is twisted, the more the part where the excrescence separates is bruised, the less is the danger of htcmorrhage, and the more certainly does the tumor break at its thinnest part, or root. When the extr.iction is done with violence, and celerity, only a piece is usually brought awaj-. Sir A. Cooper recommends tearing polypi from their attachment with a sudden jerk, as the most likely mode to bring away the whole of the root, and even a portion of the Schneiderian membrane and bone, so as to hinder a relapse: n piece of advice, however, which he seems to intend for cases in which the pedicle is grasped by the forceps, ns it