which adhered firmly to one another and to the ar tery. Wlien the last was slit open, it was found to be inipervinns, immediately before dividing into the radial and ulnar branches. At this part, it was much contracted and filled with a cylindrical clot of firm lymph, which adhered firmly to its inner surface. Tiie orifice of a large branch was situated immediately above this clot. The radial and ulnar arteries were also obstructed at their commencement. The coats of the arteries in the obstructed places were hard, thickened, and of a whiter colour than natural. In the popliteal ar- tery, an ovoid sac was formed, filled with solid lymph, and directly above it the artery was obli- terated to the extent of half an inch. For some way below it, the vessel was also blocked up with lymph. The inner layers of the sac consisted of the coats of the artery, with the exception of the internal one, which had disappeared. After de- tailing several other interesting particulars,.Pro- fessor Turner adds, "The obstruction to the supply of blood to the leg produced important efi'ects on the functions of the nerves of the foot; for it was ascertained very soon after that the skin of the foot was insensible, and apparently the muscles had lost their power of contracting. At the same time a burning pain, and feeling as if crushed, were induced in the foot. The progress and appear- ances of mortification, from sudden deficient circu- lation, were well exhibited. They seem to confirm the opinion, that even m mortification from defi- cient circulaiion, a certain degree of re-action, or inHammaiion,i-)recedesthe complete death of the paH, as was shown by the vascular congestion, the swelling, the increase of heat, and the tense vesi- cations, which took place on foot and leg." (See Edinb. Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. iii. p. 105.) This paper is remarkably valuable, as containing a true explanation of the circumstances which pre- vent lacerated arteries from bleeding; a subject, according to Dr. J. Thomson {On Inflammaiion, p. 512), first noticed by Dr. Jones, and', as Pro- fessor Turner proves, still more completely de- scribed by Hodgson and Bedard. {See Additions a I'Anatomie Gen. de X. BicJiat, p. 95.) It would appear that, in the case recorded by Professor Turner, the arteries became permanently and suddenly obstructed from laceration of their inner coats. In most of these instances, he ob- serves, it seems necessary to suppose some predis- position in the coats of the arteries to laceration, as this took place in the ordinary motions of the hmbs, and affected different arteries of the same individual. In some cases, marks of disease in the arteries were conspictious; but, in others, no evidence of this kind was apparent. In several a considerable degree of constitutional affection and lever preceded and accompanied the obstruction ot the arteries. When the obstruction takes place, the lower part of the limb may yet receive suffi- cient blood by the anastomoses, as happened in iiX 1"" -^es published by Tu^n^er; but, m fiNo otheis, mortification was the result In one, the patient was greatly debilitated by previous In some cases of fracture, mortification proceeds '""^ '^u '"'"^"P'i"" of the course of the blood through the principal artery or arteries but IS promoted by great violence done to the limb' nnd in particular by the injection and distension ot the cellular tissue with effused blood. No doubt MORTIFICATION. 303 ' all these causes operated in the fatal example of mortification which followed a fracture of the thigh, attended with laceration of the femoral artery, as related by Sir A. Cooper in his Lectures as well as in the example, recorded by me, of gan- grene of the leg, from the rupture of an aneurism in the deeper part of the ham. (See Med. CMr. Trans, vol. xvii.) Among the causes of the present species of mor- tification, may also be mentioned:great debility,ex- treme old age, a thickening and ossification of the coats of the arteries, and a consequent diminution of their capacity, and of their muscular and elastic power. Cowper, the anatomist, was one of the earliest writers who took notice of this ossification of the arteries of the leg, in persons who had died of mortification of the feet and toes. (See Phil. Trans, vol. xxiii. p. 1195, and vol. xxiv. p. 1970.) A similar case was remarked bj' Mr. Becket. of which he has given an account in his Chirurgical Observations. The occurrence was also mentioned by Naish. (See Phil. Trans, vol. xxxi. p. 226.) Dr. J. Thomson has seen one example of a very complete ossification of the arteries of the leg, ac- companying a mortification of the feet and toes. {On Inflammation, p. 537.) Speaking of the same subject, Mr. Hodgson remarks : " Experi- ence has proved this condition of the arteries to be at least a constant attendant upon one species of gangrene, to which the extremities of old subjects are liable; and I have found the three principal arteries of the leg nearly obliterated by calcareous matter in two fatal cases of this disease. But our knowledge of the power of collateral circulation in every part of the body will not allow us to ad- mit the obliteration of the trunks as a sufficient cause of mortification, from a deficient supply of blood. It is therefore necessary for us to remem- ber, that the same disease may probably exist in the collateral branches, upon which it has pro- duced similar eftects. But if an extent of vessel be converted into a calcareous cylinder, it loses its elasticity and organic powers, so as to be unable to afford any assistance to the propulsion of the blood; and the existence of parts, supplied by vessels in this state, constitutes a strong argument against the agency of the arteries in the circulation of the blood. The above observations, on the cause of this species of gangrene, at once expose its incurable nature; and this state of the blood vessels renders the danger of amputation very con- siderable, unless fortunately the disease in the arteries does not extend to the part, at which the ligature is applied." (See Hodgson on Disease of the Arteries and Veins, p. 41.) However, altliougli the ossified state of an artery must certainly be unfavourable to its healing, it does not constantly prevent this desirable event. (See case in Medico- Chir. Trails, vol. vi. p. 193.) True, mere ossification of arteries will not cause mortification. There must either be at the same time obstruction of thcin with fibrine or other matter; or great constitutional debility, and a lan- guid circulation; or some organic ch;inges, inter- rupting the free passage of the blood through the heart, or at a point near the source of the circulation, or through the trunk of the artery leading to the mortified parts. As Cruveilhier remarks, the obliteration of the arteries in a degree adequate to interrupt the supply of arterial blood to the part, is