909 VARIX. between the ligature and the affected part, and which take up the collateral circulation, are found to prevent the formation of a clot, and while the naain vessel may become obliterated, the smaller vessels parallel to it take on the diseased action. Sir G. Brodie made the next step in proposing the ligature of the branches in place of the trunk, and he re-introduced also the section of the vessel, but improved on the old practice by doing it subcu- taneously. This plan, however, disappointed its ingenious contriver, as the cure was seldom com- plete, and fatal results sometimes followed the pro- ceeding. The vessel sometimes escaped division, and even when divided became not unfrequently re united, and thus allowed the circulation to be re- established. Beclard, again, tried compression on the heart's side after the division of the vein. Lis- franc, in order to obviate the unsatisfactory results which followed on the division of the vein, as well as to remove all contact of air with the wound in the vein, to which contact he ascribed much of the danger which attended the proceeding, excised a small part of the vessel after it had been cut across, so as to allow of the retraction of the ends of the vein within the surrounding paits. Brodie also tried the actual cautery, but thought that any advantages it might hold out were more thancoun- terbalanced by the pain and obstinate ulcer which resulted. Caustics have been at various times largely emploj'ed in the treatment of vari>:. Cloc- quet, Berard, Skey, Langier, and Clay used the Vienna Paste; Mayo, Ashton, Key, and Bonnet of Lyons caustic potash ; and Von Froriep fuming nitric acid. Bonnet incised the eschar formed, and re-applied the caustic many times, thus allow- ing of its deep action. Langier premised an in- cision through the skin, while Berard, having marked with ink or nitrate of silver the position of the veins when dilated by exercise, applied the caustic in long rolls parallel to them. He thus de- stroyed at once all the tissues down to the vessel. As the eschar takes long to separate, the danger from haemorrhage is very great. Of the different caustics which have been employed, the zinc paste, known in France as the '^pdie de Canqnoin," seems to be least liable to be followed by danger- ous results. Verneuil, quoting from an unpub- lished memoir of M. Valette, tells us that in more than 2,000 cases in which it has been em- ployed, neitlier death nor serious accidents fol- lowed. Gross, of Pliiladelphia, says that he has found the use of caustic potash and quicklime to " possess the great advantages of being entirely free from danger, and always perfectly successful." The pain wiiich attends the use of caustics appears always to be very great. The objections which present themselves to the use of caustics in the treatment of varix are, the great difficulty of limiting their action both as re- gards the vessel and the parts around, the fear there is of suppurative phlebitis, the pain the ap- plication causes, and the difficulty of healing tlie ulcer which they leave, especially in persons of such habits of body as those in whom varices are commonly met with. The occurrence of hfemor- rhage also is not rare, especially if the limb be at all used while the eschars are separating, besides which there is the uncertainty of a final cure, and the entire failure or imperfection of the result in very many cases. For these reasons it is that few surgeons now employ this method of treatment. Again, the occlusion of the vein has been aimed at by Davat by transfixing it with two uei dK'S in such a way as that they will cross one another within the vessel—the one being in- serted parallel and the other transversely to the vein—and then uniting the whole by twisting a thread round them. The object Davat had in view was to produce a solution of continuity in the inner coat, without which he thought cohesion would not occur even though the vessel be com- pressed. The great violence done to the vein, and the extreme probability of an unmanageable amount of inflammation following, are the great objections to this method, as tliey are also to Fricke's proposal to pass a thread-seton several times through the vein, and leave it there for some days. Velpeau, again, suggested a mode of treatment which is much followed in this countrj'. He passes a pin behind the vein, taking great care not to pierce it, and then causes compression by twisting a thread roimd the pin and a piece of elastic bougie, which he lays on the surface over and parallel to the vessel. In this way, as the thread is applied as in the twisted suture, the two extremities of the pin are engaged in the loop of the figure-of-eigiit form assumed by the thread, while the vein and the bougie lying over it are compressed by the centre. The bougie is so placed to prevent injury to the surface. This operation should be a bloodless one if properly per- formed, as the appearance of blood at the point where the pin has been inserted, or escapes, shows that we have penetrated the vein, and in that case the pin should be withdravvn, and re-inserted with greater care behind the vessel. The pin used should be of unoxidised iron, so as to prevent any irritation from its rusting, and the thread should be not too small or hard, and not applied over tight. The operation is repeated at various points of the vessel, beginning at the part nearest the trunk which is affected. The pins are best employed in pairs, having about an inch and a half between them. The pin and bougie are left m sita for about ten days, and then removed, a bandage being applied to the limb, and left on for some time after. Dr. Buzemau, of America, has lately recom- mended his metal buttons and silver-wire sutures to be used in the same way as~the pin and bougie, and reports good results in the cases in which he has tried it. Mr. Lee, again, employs the subcutaneous di- vision of the vein, besides the use of the pin as in Velpeau's method. He divides the vein at points intermediate between those at which the vessel is compressed by the pins, and he withdraws the pins two days after the vessel has been divided. By the section of the vein all stagnant blood existing between the two points of compression is removed, and the evils which he attributes to this blood remaining avoided, while the operation itself is quickly recovered from. Rest durin^r treatment, and bandaging afterwards should be employed. It has been objected to the method of treat- ment by the pin that there is a fear of transfixing the vein; that nerves and lymphatics may bo included in the grasp of the ligature; that it is difficult to get fairly behind the vessel; that the succeeding inflammation may be very severe; and that the euro is not permanent, as the varicose