is extremely liable to repeated attacks of inflam- mation, and sometimes a fistula, with a good deal of induration of the surrounding cellular substance is produced. Dr. Mackenzie represents this disease as the most frequent of all those, to which the ex- creting parts of the lachrymal organs are liable, and as consisting in inflammation of these organs, modified by scrofula, general debility, disorder of the digestive organs, or other constitutional causes, which prolong its second stage. " Even regarded locally, the present disease is seldom a primary af- fection, but is most frequently excited by catarrhal inflammation of the Sclineiderian membrane, or by a long-continued disorder of the Meibomian glands. {Mackenzie on Dis. of the Lachrymal Orqans. p 37-40.) ^ .P- Scarpa's opinions on the present subject are in some degree peculiar to himself; for he considers the affection of the Meibomian glands and inside of the eyelids, the puriform palpebral discharge, as he terms it, as constituting the first degree of all those complaints, which have usually gone under the name of fistula lachrymalis ; the second degree or eifect, bei.ig the tumour of the lachrymal sac ; and the third, the fistula, or ulcerated opening in the latter part. Scarpa asserts, that the chief part of the yellow viscid matter, which accumulates in the lachrj-mal sac, is secreted by the lining of the eyelids, and by the little glands of Meibomius ; and that the altered quality of this secretion has a prin- cipal share in the cause of the disease. He states, that the truth of this fact may at once be ascertained by everting the eyelids, and especially the lower one of the affected side ; and by comparing them with those of the opposite ej-e. The former will always exhibit an unnatural redness of the internal membrane, which has a villous appearance all over the extent of the tarsus ; while the edge of the lid 18 swollen ; and numerous varicose vessels are distinguishable on it. The follicles of Meibomius are also turgid and prominent, and, when examined with a magnifying glass, not unfrequently appear to be slightly ulcerated. " The villous structure, then, which the surface of the internal membrane of the palpebra assumes m these cases, becomes an organ secreting a larger quantity of fluid than usual, resembling viscid lymph, which, as before stated, being mixed with the sebaceous matter, copiously effused from the glands of Meibomius, constitutes the whole of the visclJ fluid, with which the eyelids are imbued, and which is continually carried by the puncta Jachrymalia into the sac, so as to fill, and also fre- quently distend it, until it forms a tumour. ' If, indeed, the lachrymal sac is emptied of this matter by means of compression, and the eye nnd internal surface of the palpebral are carefully washed, 80 that none of the glutinous humour, pressed from the sac, may remain upon them, and ho eyelids are everted half an hour afterwards, the internal surface, especially of the lower one, will be found covered with a fresh effusion of muc„s mixed with sebaceous matter, which has evidently not flowed back from the lachrymal sac to the eye, but has been generated between the eye and the palpebral." Another argument, brought forward by Scarpa in support of his theory, is, that if the morbid secretion of the eyelids be retarded or suppressed, either accidentally, or by "■cans of astringent applications, little, or none of tiio viscid secretion collects in the lachrymal sac LACHRYMAL ORQANS, DISEASES OF. jgj or can be forced out of the puncta lachrymalia. He has also constantly observed, that the puriform dis- charge may be radically cured at its commence- ment, and before it has induced any flaccidity of the sac, by a timely correction of the morbid se- cretion from the inside of the eyelids, and keeping the lachrymal passage cleansed, by means of in- jections of simple water through the puncta lachry- malia into the nose. As for the internal membrane of the sac itself, he argues, that its structure does not qualify it for secreting a tenacious unctuous matter, like what is chiefly discharged from it, as it is entirely destitute of sebaceous glands, and can in reality only furnish a thin mucus. However, he admits, that if the sac happen to be inflamed and ulceiated, a turbid matter may issue from it with tlte tears ; but, says he, this matter is true pus, and quite different from the curdy unctuous fluid, which takes place in the puriform palpebral dis- charge." {On the Principal Dis. of the Eyes, transl. by Driggs, ed. 2, p. 4-7J. The foregoing opinions of Scarpa have not met with universal assent, and, though there is pro- bably, some truth in them, he may have over- looked too much the simultaneous affection of the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. To Scarpa's hypothesis, Himly and flajani have made the following objections:—First that they have observed the fistula lachrymalisj without the least morbid alteration of the eye- lids, and Meibomian glands. Secondly, that every puriform discharge of the eyelids is not succeeded by obstruction of the nasal duct. Lastly, that the fistula lachrymalis is cured by means of the operation alone, without any attention being paid to the morbid state of the eyelids, when it exists. And Mr. Travers also regards Scarpa's account ol the origin of the disease, independently of a permanent stricture, as hypothetical ; for, if founded in fact, the distension of the lachrymal sac, and the regurgitation of the fluid on pressure, would attend every severe lippitudo, or ophthalmia with puriform discharge, which is not the case. If Scarpa's account were correct, Mr. Travers sees no reason why the fluid, once admitted, should be arrested, or regurgitate, instead of passing into the nose (see also Nicod. in Revue Med. t. i p 155 • an^ Laicrence on Dis. of the Eye, p. 708), and he thinks there is every reason to believe, that the tluid so discharged, is the proper secretion of the sac, and that cases are frequent, in which it is re- tained and cannot be expressed, owing to strictures both ol the lachrymal and nasal ducts. (Synopsis of the Dis. of the Eye, p. 3(iO). Some'of the arguments with wiiich Scarpa meets this reason- ing are already anticipated, especially that which refers to the dift'ercnce between the secretion of the sac itself, and that of the sebaceous glands of the eyelids. Also, in asserting, that the origin of the fistula lachrymalis generally manifests itself on the eyelids, before the lachrymal passages are aft'ected, Scarpa declares, that he does not pretend thereby to exclude altogether the possibility of a case, in which the membranes of the nasal duct and lachrymal sac may not be thickened and ulcerated, independently of the disease of the eye- lids. That this is tlie case, I think is evident from the account, already delivered of Beer's opinions respecting the consequences of inflamma- tion of the integuments and other parts about the inner angle of the eye, as well as respecting the