168 LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. Whenever the lachrymal puncta and ducts are obliterated, the practitioner need not trouble himself about the condition of the nasal duct; because, even if it were rendered duly pervious, this improve- ment would hot continue long; as Beer's experience has fully convinced him, that, when the mucous secretion of the lachrymal sac is not blended with the tears, a closure of the nasal duct sooner or later ensues, and of course an accumulation of the mucus of the sac, a disease sometimes termed, under such circumstances, hydrops sacculi lacliry- malis. And, in order to prevent this complaint in the state of things just now described, Beer is an advocate for the total obliteration of the cavity of the sac with escharotics. (B. ii. p. 181.) Such is the practice of Beer, with tbe view of clearing awiiy obstruction in the nasal duct, and restoring its natural diameter. Let us now con- sider what methods have been suggested by others. Beginning then with the screw, invented by Fa- bricius ab Aquapendente, for compressing the dis- tended lachrymal sac, I need only remark with M. Nicod, that, as this plan was not directed against the cause of the disease, it is not surprising that it should have been unavailing, and ultimately ban- ished from practice. In the year 1716, Anel invent- ed a probe of so small a size, that it was capable of passing from the upper punctum lachryraale into the lachrymal sac and nasal duct, the obstructions in which latter passage it was intended to remove, Anel also invented a syringe, whose pipe was small enough to enter one of the puncta, and by that means to furjiish an opportunity of injecting fluid into the sac and duct; and with these two in- struments he pretended to be able to cure the disease whenever it consisted in obstruction merely, and the discharge was not much discoloured. " The first of these, viz. the passage of a small probe through the puncta (says Mr. Pott), has a plausible ap- pearance, but v/ill, upon trial, be found very unequal to the task assigned : the very small size of it, its necessary flexibility, and the very little resistance it is capable of making, are manifest deficiencies in the instrument ; the quick sensation in the lining of the sac and duct, and its diseased state, are great objections on the side of the parts, supposing that it was capable of answering any valuable end, which it most certainly is not. The next practice, deserving notice, is that of Laforest, who used to introduce into the termina- tion of the nasal duct in the nostril a probe, with which he cleared away the obstruction in the pas- sage. He also introduced into the same orifice a curved tube, which was left in the part three or four months, for the purpose of employing injec- tions. This method was sometimes found not only troublesome and difficult, on account of the ana- tomical varieties, to which the termination of the nasal canal was liable, but subject to frequent failures. Hence, it never gained many advocates. Of late, however, it has found one in M. Gensou , who, in most cases, employs escharotics through the inferior orifice of the nasal canal. He filled it in the dead body with fusible metal, which, becom- ing cold, formed a model for probes. These are bent nearly at a right angle, about nine or ten lines from their extremity ; and near this curve there is a slight lateral inflection, the direction of which • must be reversed for the two nostrils. This in- flection corresponds to the projection of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone.'' (See Bkl. dc Med. et de CIdr. t. viii.) Following up the principles of Anel, another French surgeon, M^jean, dilated the nasal duct with a seton, which was drawn up into the la- chrymal sac by means of a thread, first introduced from the upper punctum lachryraale. But it was soon discovered, that what was gained on one side, was lost on the other ; the lodgment of the thread in the lachrymal duct for several months, and the irritation of its orifice in changing the seton every day, not only causing inflammation of the punctum lachryraale, but even such ulceration and cica- trices, as sometimes destroyed the functions of the parts. J. L. Petit, sensible of the inconveniences of Mejean's practice, and disgusted with the barba- rous imitation of the ancients in cauterising the fistula, sac, and os unguis, conceived that, instead of these plans, or that of perforating the os unguis, as proposed by Woolhouse, it would be better to en- deavour to restore the natural passage, by remov- ing the obstruction in the nasal duct, which ob- struction Petit regarded as the cause of the disease. His method consisted in opening the lachrymal sac with a small bistour\% introducing through the wound, sac, and nasal duct a probe, down into the nostril, and then using bougies for the dilatation of the passage. Pellier and Wathen recommended the introduction of a metallic tube down the nasal duct, and leaving it for a time in that situation, with the view of preventing the duct from closing again ; and the use of a canula was preferred by Dupuytren. Experience proves that a metallic tube will not serve permanently for the natural duct ; after a few months the tube gets out of its place, rises too high, or sinks too low, or becomes ob- structed. In some instances it causes inflam- mation ; and, in other examples, severe pain and aching in the corner of the eye, not remediable unless the tube be withdrawn. Mr. Lawrence observes, that the necessity for such removal is not a very rare occurrence, as may be inferred from the circumstance of Baron Dupuytren having devised means expressly calculated for the extraction of the tube. {OnBis.of iheE}/e,^.7U.) M. Darcet records twenty-seven cases in which this became indispensably necessarJ^ In some instances it glides into.the nostrils, and the operation completely fails. M. Delpech knew it make its way through the roof of the mouth : the operation of taking it out is worse than the original one. (See A. Vejpeau, Nouv. Elem. dc Med. Operaioirc, t. i. p. 647.) The desire of avoiding any puncture of the sac has influenced many practitioners besides Anel, and given rise to various ingenious inventions. Thus, in 1780, Sir William Blizard proptised, instead of injecting water, to introduce quicksilver through a smiill pipe, communicating with a long tube full of this fluid. The specific gravity of the quicksilver, when the sac was distended with it, he believed, would have more power, than water propelled through a svringe, to remove the la- chrymal obstruction. (See FMl. Trans, vol. xx. p. 239.) „. The late Mr, Ware, after trying Sir-\\illiam Blizard's plan, gave the preference to Anel s syringe, with which he generally injected warm water, through the lower punctum lachryraale, into the lachrymal sac, and put a finger over the