bnbly some oF the veins have been mechanically injured, and therefore a meclianiciil impediment is oH'ered to the circulation. For this reason, when any of the larger veins of a limb have been inter- fered with, the distal veins become distended, and are liable to be injuriously influenced. We have thus the solution of the fact observed by Hunter, but not explained by him, or by subsequent ob- servers, viz. the tendency that inflammation of a vein so frequently manifests to spread in a course opposite to that of the circulation. T/te treatment naturally divides itself into local and constitutional. Whatever tends to fa- vour the healthy healing of a wounded vein may be regarded as affording security against any sub- sequent disease ; and the chief point in the local treatment is, to prevent any accidental circum- stances from interfering with the natural process of repair. When the powers of the constitution are enfeebled, even the natural motions of a part may interfere with recover)', and rest sometimes becomes an important object in the treatment. How necessary this is after childbirth, when the divided veins are being closed, every one who has attended such cases practically knows. Again, after bleeding, the arm will inflame in a much greater proportion of cases when the patient is obliged to follow his usual occupation, or when, from accidental circumstances, the arms are kept in motion. In all such cases, any external vio- lence, or even the motion of the body, may loosen the coagula formed either between the wounded edges, or in the cavities of veins. Hunter remarks that when inflammation takes place beyond the orifice of a vein so as to alarm the surgeon, he should immediately make a com- press upon the vein at the inflamed part, to make the two sides adhere together ; or if suppuration has taken place, then the compress should be put upon that part of the vein just above the suppura- tion. ( Transactions of a Society for the Improve- ment of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, p. 29.) Now, as lymph is not effused in the early stages of phlebitis as a secretion from the lining mem- brane of the veins, the adhesion produced by Mr. Hunter's method of treatment would be by coa- gulum of blood only. This would not, under ordinary circumstances, become organised. It would adhere only to the sides of the vessel, and it would be constjintly liable to become displaced. Such a bond of union, although it might prevent, for a time, the morbid contents of a vein from entering the general circulation, could scarcely be looked upon as a permanent union of the sides of the vessel. In cases where the affected vein is seated superficially, a much more certain and effectual way of closing its canal, and of barring the entrance of its contents from the general circula- tion, may be used. This method, which, when properly performed, I believe to be free from danger, is one which I have now in several instances adopted. Two needles are introduced half an inch apart below the vein above the in- flamed portion. An S ligature is then placed over the ends of the needles so as to compress the veins, and the vein is then subcutaneously divided between the needles; at the end of two or three days the needles are removed. The vein is ob- literated, and the inflammation is arrested at that point. As the process of reparation in veins has VOL. u. VENEREAL DISEASE, 913 been variously described by authors, so the differ- ent theories propounded have led to different kinds of treatment. At the Veterinary College, eveii within the last few years, it was publicly taught that a coagulum in a vein was a foreign substance, and ought to be removed; and the jugular vein in horses which had been bled was sometimes slit up for several inches, in order to remove the coagula which formed in successive portions of its course. To remove coagula in ordinary cases, however, is to remove the very means prepared by nature for the restoration and safety of the parts. Posi- tion, topical applications, bandages, and tempera- ture may all have their influence in producing healthy action. As the wounds which precede purulent deposits are generally characterised by feeble powers, those conditions which most tend to invigorate the parts are principally indicated. The irritability of a wound may be appropriately termed a teaz-d action; it frequently appears to be nothing else than a series of attempts to bring about a result,which at first is more or less imper- fectly accomplished. As soon as that is fulfilled which the necessity of the parts demands for their healthy condition, irritation will cease. But no local applications are likely to accomplish this ob- ject, unless the powers of the constitution are sup- ported at the same time. It is evident that tho treatment of phlebitis ought to be concentrated on the first period of the disease. So soon as portions of a disintegrating or decomposing clot, or the septic products of a wound, have become mixei' \yith the circulating blood, medicine is generally oi little avail. It is doubtless true, unfortunately, that in a large number of cases, the contamination of the blood takes place through minute vessels hidden from our sight; and the occurrence of severe constitutional symptoms is the first signal of a malady to which, only too often, there is but one end.] Henry Lee. VENEREAL DISEASE {Lues Venerea; Morbus Gallicus ; Syphilis).—About the year 1494 or 1495, the venereal disease is said to have made its first appearance in Europe. Some writers believe that it originally broke out at the siege of Naples ; but most of them suppose that, as Co- lumbus returned from his first expedition to the West Indies on March 13th, 1493, his followers brought the disorder with them from the new tr) the old world. Other authors, however, amonir whom are Mr. Beckett(PM Travs.voh. xxx and XXXI.), Mr. B. Bell, and Dr. Swediaur, maintain the opinion that the venereal disease was well known upon the old continent, and that it pre vailed among the Jews, Greeks, and Romans, and their descendants, long before the discovery of America. One writer of high reputation be- lieves that, though syphilis was brought to Eu- rope by the followers of Columbus, there existed previously to that event throughout the old con tment venereal disorders, both local and constitu- tional, which strongly resembled the newly im- ported disease, and were, for more than throe centuries, confounded with it. (R. Carmicluicl, On Venereal Diseases, p. 33, 8vo. Loud. 1825 ed 2 ) My friend, Mr. Hacot, has bestowed great pains on an examination of all the passages in old works affording any ground for the opinion that syphilis existed in ancient times ; he finds inthira 3 N