tious with the reeults of which I have been ac- quainted. All these considerations, tlierefore, incline me to doubt whether the apprehension of effusion of urine, fistula;, &c., be sufficiently well-founded to make it advisable for surgeons to relinquish the plan of making a complete division of the side of the prostate glimd, and a limited one in the neck of the bladder. Nor is it at all clear to ray mind that effusion of urine and sloughing are likely to be the effect of practising a free opening. Indeed, whenever thoj' do happen, I believe the^ proceed from a totally different cause, viz. from the inci- sion in the skin being too small and too high up, and from tlie axis of the internal part of the inci- sion not corresponding with that of the external wound. Hence the urine does not readily find its way outward, and some of it passes into the neighbouring cellular membrane. (See Ouvres Chir. de Desault, t. ii. p. 460, 461.) I regret that the observations, published by me, relative to Scarpa's method of performing lithotomy, should not have seemed to him a fair account of the subject, and that he should have deemed it necessary to declare my statement of his incision being too small, and inadequate to the passage of any but calculi under the middling size, manifestly false (Opuseoli di Chirurgia, vol. i. p. C2).^ He supposes that Clieselden, Frere Jacques, and Come, in their successful operations, made the limited kind of incision which he himself recom- mends, and did not cut the bladder itself—a posi- tion that does not appear to me correct. He as- serts that after the side of the prostate gland is divided, the orifice of the bladder is capable of yielding so as to allow the stone to pass out with- out danger, if this part of the operation be done slowly and gradually; and he supports his decla- ration on this point by a reference to the safety with which the orifice of the female bladder is dilated for the extraction of calculi of considerable size—a case hardly presenting an analogy;—fiist, because there is no wound made whatever; and, secondly, because lithotomy itself, in women, is a safe measure compared with wliat it is in men. The frequent evils of dilating the orifice of the female bladder, however, he frankly acknowledges in another part of his writings, and enumerates as the ground of his disapprobation of the practice. (See Opuseoli, ^-c, vol. i.'p. 10.5.) H does not appear to mo that Scarpa's gorget can make the division of the prostate in a direction corresponif- ing to that of the external parts. This view, he -thinks, is not founded on correct principles; and he maintains that his incision in the prostate does correspond to the outer wound, because, when the bladder is empty, the prostate is naturally placed in a line sloping from the arch of the pubes to tho coccyx, and with its posterior surface resting on the rectum, as is represented in Ckunpcr's Dcmonsl. Anat. Pathnl. lib. ii. tab. 3, fig. 2. This explana- tion 18 not satisfactory to myself; but I have great pleasure in mentioning it, as it has appeared to Scarpa to amount to a refutation of my observa- tion that his gorget does not make a division of the prostatic portion of the urethra in a direction corresponding to the axis of the wound of the ex- ternal parts. {Opttscoli di Chirurgia, vol. i. p. 52.) From conversations which I have had with Sir Astiey Cooper, I know that he also regards the Chances of effusion of urine kom n free incision 227 LITflOTOMY. as much less than apprehended by several prac- titioners whose opinions on this point have been already cited. But as, in addition to the names of Le Cat and Scarpa, those of Dupuytren, Sir B. Brodie, Stanlej-^, and Listen, may now be quoted in favour of the plan of not cutting beyond the base of the prostate gland, sn as to avoid dividing the fascia interposed between the pelvic cellular tissue and that more superficially situated, I admit that this is a point in surgery needing further careful investigation. It can only be set- tled by a fair comparison of the results of opera- tions conducted on the two opposite principles—by ascertaining the causes of deatii in a fair number of instances, and, in particular, by observing in the various dissections the real extent of the wound; because I have some reason to suspect that some persons who advocate a small internal incision, in truth often make a free one. Sir Benjamin Brodie's observations upon this and all other points of sur- gery, however, I entertain great respect for; and he assures us, that .all that he has been able to observe for many years past has confirmed him in the opinion, that an incision in the prostate, ex- tending into the loose cellular texture surrounding the neck of the' bladder, is replete with danger. The peritoneal inflammation noticed in fatal cases, he_ observes, is evidently not the primary disease; it is the inflammation and sloughing of the cellular membrane of the pelvis, which has induced inflam- mation of the adjoining portion of that membrane, (On Diseases of the Urinary Organs, p. 291.) Thus, while some operators, like Klein, Mar- tineau, &c., refer their extraordinary success as lithotomists to the plan of making a free opening, others ascribe a principal source of danger to this very method of proceeding. [From the preceding observations, it would ap- pear that the late author recommends the practice of making the internal incision free—that is, "a com- plete division of the side of the prostate gland, and a limited one in the neck of the bladder." He also assures us that " be had seen the lateral operation performed an immense number of times," and that " in most of these examples the avowed intention of the surgeon was to make a Iree openine into the bladder." This may have been true at the time when Mr. Cooper wrote, but it certainly does not represent the opinion of the best operators at the present day. It is now almost invariably admitted that the only safe principles to be adopted are those of moderate incision and gentle dilatation of the parts incised. ^ The inventor of the lateral method, the great Franco, was the first who understood the advan- tages of a moderate internal incision, "The smaller the incision (says Franco) the better, pro- vided the stone can pass through it; but, on the other hand, it must not be too small, so as to give rise to much violence in the extraction of tho stone. Href, il est requis do tenir mcdiocrite." Aiiothcr great surgeon, Scarpa, has been the principal advocate of moderate internal incisions, and he has been followed in this advice by Sir Astiey Cooper and Sir B. Brodie, by Dupuytren, Callisen, the late Mr. Crosse of Norwich, Mr. Ijiston, and by most lithotomists of the present day. In the standard work of Dr. Gross on the Urinar'j Organs, I find it stated that the prac- q2