observations on pua ninj' he found in an Essay on the DiJ/innjfs bettvcen Pus and Mucus, by Dr. Darwin, junior ; and also in Dr. G. Pearson's Paper iu JMos. Trans. Itil]. Use op Pus. Suppuration is sometimes regarded as a consti- tutional disease, ciianged into a local one, the farmer being supposed to be discharged, or tlirovvn out of the body, either in the form of pus, or toge- ther with this fluid. Critical abscesses have been thought to be an example of this use of suppura- tion. It has also been imagined to carry off local complaints from other parts of the body, on the old principle of derivation, or revulsion. Fur this reason, sores or issues are sometimes made, before an attempt to heal up an ulcer of long continuance. Suppuration is sometimes excited with the view of making parts, such as indurated swellings, dissolve into pus; but it is by no means certain that it ever operates on this principle. The secretion of pus has been looked unon as a general prevention of many, or of all the causes of disease. Hence, issues have been made to keep off universal, as well as local, disease. However, the use of pus is perhaps unknown; for it is formed most perfectly from healthy sores, and iu healthy constitutions ; and large discharges from parts not very essential to life, produce very little change in the constitution, and as little upon being healed up, whatever some may suppose to the contrary. {Hunter.) This is certainly the case with many old ulcers, the suppuration from which seems to have little, or no effect, in impairing the health. When the surface of a sore is left uncovered, the thin part of the matter evaporates, and the thick part dries and forms a scab. Nature, there- fore, seems to have designed, that one use of pus should be to make a cover, or protection, for ulcer- ated surfaces. But I cannot agree with what has been asserted {Hunter), that the natural healing of a sore under a scab usually takes place more quickly, than when surgical dressings are em ployed. On ulcers, as would appear from certain micro- scopical observations, " the coagulated pus is ren- dered tubular by the extrication of its carbonic acid gas, and these tubes, or canals, are immedi- ately filled with red blood, and thus connected with the circulation." If this point were esta- blished. Sir Everard Home conceives that there would then be little difficulty in making out the succeeding changes, by means of which the coagu- lated pus afterwards becomes organised. (On the Convrr.iion of Pus into O'nmuluiions or new Flesh, in /'/dl. Trans, vol. cix. p. 109, Lond. 1019.) Tliese statements may be curious; but I do not imagine that nature will let us trace much further the secrets here referred to. Among the secondary uses of suppuration may be mentioned that of opening a communication between a (j^pease and the extern;il surface of the body; and that of leading to the formation of a passage for the exit of extraneous bodies, &c. Though an abscess is sometimes dispersed by its contents being absorbed, this is not the usual course of the case; and the tumor, instead of diminishing, generally continues to increase, instead of subsid- Jiig, or remaining stationary. Under such circum- Unnccs the pus commonly advances cither to the SUPPURATION. skin or a mucous .surface, in which an outlet for it is produced by an ulcerative process. Here we find that pus is subject to the general law of the animal economy, which tends to expel from the body all extraneous substances, capable of irritating and dis- turbing its textures. It is scarcely necessary to ob- serve, that when pus makes its way into a cavity, passage, or organ lined by a mucous membrane, it finds almost as ready an outlet from the body as if the abscess had taken its still more frequent course to the cutaneous surface. If an abscess be near a mucous texture, then nature will often make the pus take this direction to discharge itself, instead of conducting it to the skin, which may be more remote. But we do not remark a similar ten- dency of abscesses to make their way into cavities invested by a serous membrane, because as this always constitutes a close sac, the advantage of an outlet for the purulent matter would not thereby be obtained. Illustrations of this disposition are afforded in abscesses in the vicinity of bones, or in the parietes of the abdomen or chest, or situated near fibrous or synovial membranes, where, in- stead of weakening the textures, abscesses fre- quently have the contrary effect, by thickening the periosteum, the pleura, the peritoneum, aud° the fibrous and synovial structures. Notwithstanding the fact, that abscesses gene- rally tend to the surface, and not to the great ca- vities and internal organs, which seem even to be frequently protected by a thickening of the tex- tures interposed between them and the collection of matter, exceptions are sometimes noticed. If an abscess, situated in the parenchyma of the lungs, may occasion an adhesion of the pulmonary to the costal pleura, followed by ulceration of the intercostal muscles, and the formation of an outlet lor the matter through the parietes of the chest it IS not less certain that purulent collections situ- ated on the outside of the chest, in contact with the ribs, may insinuate themselves between these bones, press back the pleura, and be effused within that cavity. The son of J. L. Petit is said to have died from such a cause. Analogous occurrences lave been observed in abscesses situat.-d on the outside of the peritoneum, and especially in those which so commonly form in the inguinal region in women who have been recently delivered. The extension of an abscess into an adjoinino''cavity 18 also possible, where the matter is originallv formed near a joint. Of the Time when Ab.scesses should be OPENED. The following are generally regarded as cases in winch an opening should be made, as soon as the slightest degree of fluctuation is perceptible or sometimes even sooner. ' 1. Abscesses arising from extravasation or ef- usion of irritating fluids or matters in the cellu- hir tissue. To this class especially belong uri- nary and fascal abscesses. Here the incision is necessary, not only for the discharge of pus, but of the effused matter, or fluid, which is the cause of irritation and suppuration. I may add, that tnider such circumstances, a very free incision is required to fulfil tli^se two important indications 2. Abscesses preceded by intense inflammk- tion, and situated in parts abounding in adinous cellular tissue; as, for instance, tlio verge of the anus, the neighbourliood of the rectum, tlic sides