LITPIOTOMY. 229 he the deep incision, is working in the darkj cannot see what parts he is cutting?, and hence the attempts which have been made to compensate this disadvantage by the construction of various instruments. The principles on which these have been constructed are clearly defined by Mr. Thompson in his Lettsomian Lectures. With some of them—the bistouri cachd, for example —the depth of the incision depends on the breadth of the instrument—that is to say, on the extent to which the blades may have been separated by the surgeon before he begins to cut with it. In the other class of instruments, as the knife or probe-pointed bistoury, the depth of the in- ternal incision depends on the angle which it makes with the staff, when pushed through the prostate and withdrawn ; some influence will also be exercised by the breadth of the blade itself. " Now, with respect to the choice (says Mr. Thompson) which may be exercised among these methods of making the last incisions, there is a certain case and simplicity in the use of a single knife, the sharp-pointed scalpel, which has com- mended it greatly to modern surgeons; and unless there are some exceptional circumstances present, it must be admitted to be both a safe and con- venient instrument. But, on the other hand, there are circumstances, and not unfrequent ones, in which the probe-pointed knife is, I believe, superior. When the stone is large, and the deep incision must therefore correspond, the latter is a safer instrument for making it, since the point leaves the staff in that act." "When the perineum is deep, as in very stout subjects, and in those with enlarged prostate, so that the finger cannot follow the knife into the bladder, I certainly prefer the probe-pointed knife for the last incision, as well as the blunt gorget to dilate it and conduct the forceps into the bladder. I adopted this method with advantage in the case of a gentleman, aged 69, in November last, whose prostate was unusually large. I incised it with a probe-pointed knife, and, finding myself wholly unable to reach the bladder with the finger, I passed the blunt gorget steadily onwards in the groove of the staff, and then the forceps in its hollow, when I at once encountered and with- drew the stone without difficult}'. The patient made a good recovery." (Lancet, vol. I, 1862, p. 217.)J ' • ' 0/jslades to tlic performance of Litholomy.— The most important obstacles to the successful performance of lithotomy are those connected with the extraction of the calculus. They may arise from certain conditions of the organs, or may depend on the nature, position, and size of the calculus. Sometimes the extraction of the stone is attended with difficulty, owing to the operator having chanced to grasp it in a transverse position, in which circumstance it is better to try to change its direction, or let it go altogether, and take hold of It in another manner. When the stone is so large that it cannot be extracted from the wound without violence and laceration, the surgeon niav either break the stone, by means of a strong pair of forceps, with teeth, constructed for the purpose or with Earles or Jameson's instrument (see Anu- ncan Med. Recorder, vol. 8), or he may enlarge the wound with a probe-pointed crooked bistoury introduced under the guidance of the forcfinge^ of the left hand. The latter plan is generally the better of the two. Sir Benjamin Brodie does not admit the expe- diency of dilating the wound of the prostate, except where only one side of it has been divided in the first instance, for he sometimes employs a beaked knife, which divides both sides of it; but when the stone is above a certain size, and the division of one side of the prostate is not sufficient, he introduces a straight probe-pointed bistoury, and makes an incision in the right side of the prostate. {On Bis. of the Urinary Organs, p. 284.) And Mr. Stanley considers this plan preferable to ex- tending the incision in the left side, at the risk of cutting the coats of the bladder beyond its neck, which he agrees with Scarpa, Sir B. Brodie, Mr. Listen, and some others, in believing would occasion danger of infiltration of urine into the pelvis. {On the Lateral Operatioii, p. 14.) What- ever foundation there may be for this apprehension, however, I see no risk of wounding the pudendal artery or the ureter, if the surgeon cut, as he ought always to do, in the direction obliquely down- wards and outwards, parallel to the ramus of the ischium, as Mr. Stanley judiciously recommends. In the case of an unusually large stone," says this gentleman, " it is better to determine upon the incision of both sides of the prostate, whereby an increase of space will be obtained, which is to be measured, not merely by the extent of the incision, but by the greater facility with which the neck of the bladder will then yield to the pressure of the forceps, than when one side of the prostate only has been divided." {Op. cit. p. 17.) This object may be accomplished with a double-edged gorget, a broad double-edged beaked knife, or Dupuy tren's double bistoire cache', or by dividing the two sides of the gland in succession, with the knife altogether or with the gorget followed by the latter instru- ment. Mr. Stanley deems the division of one side of the prostate gland generally sufficient, and he quotes two cases where calculi of large size had been extracted, though, after death, the side of that gland was found not to have been completely divided. He does not mention, however, whether the operations were easy, or whether the patients were kept long on the table, or died of the con- sequences of the diminutive opening and violenc» done to the parts. When the calculus is too ample to admit of being safely extracted, he agrees with other surgeons in the prudence of breaking it (p. 17). He does not give an exclusive preference either to the gorget or the knife. For a youne subject or a thin adult, the knife seems to him advantageous; but for a very fat or an old subject in whom, by an enlargement of the prostate or a dilatation of the rectum, the bladder is raised much above its natural situation, he considers the coriret better adapted (p. 19). Wiien tlie bladcler is iiiucli contracted he uses a sound, the curve of which is sliort, being the segment of a small circle. The point of such an instrument can be niored' Ireely, so as to touch every part of the inside of the bladder, and, when directed downwards, it can touch a stone situated below and behind the pro- state. The part of the staff along which the beak of the knife or gorget passes, he recommends to be very little curved, whereby the introduction of tile knife or gorget will be rendered more easy (p. 20). In imitation of Desault, he prefers a gorget, the handle of which is in the same line