I3y one method the Btricturc is cut " from before backwards." In tliis inocoediin;, a grooved guide of some kind exists, by wliicli tlie blude ia directed tiirongh tiie narrowed portion, so as to divide it to n certain depth on one side, usually on the floor, of the urethra. This guide may be a fine grooved sound or catheter on which a cutting instrument glides down afcer the former has been introduced into the bladder. The requisite division having been made, a full-sized catheter is passed into the bladder, either upon the guide or after it has been removed, and tied in for two or tliree days, so as to carry oiY as far as possible the urine without contact with the cut surface. Subsequently a bougie is passed every day, or every other day, until the urethra is soundly healed, and then less frequently : a practice which is necessary for a con- siderable period of time. According to another proceeding, the stricture is divided by a blade, which must first be passed beyond the stricture, and being then exposed, is made to divide the obstruction in the act of its withdrawal by the operator. This is termed " division from behind forwards," and is generally considered the more certain and safe of the two methods. It requires, however, that the stricture should not be very narrow, or if it be so, that it should previously be dilated to some extent so as to admit the cutting instrument to pass through it. In the former method a slender guide only need be passed through: in the latter an instru- ment of the size of No. i at least must generally be admitted. One of the best modes of perform"'- ing this operation is that of Civiale, whose instru- ment has a bulbous extremity containing the blade. This is passed beyond the stricture, the blade directed downwards, on the floor of the urethra, and made to project to a certain prede- termined distance, arranged by a mechanism in the handle. It is then drawn steadily outwards so as to divide all the obstructing tissue, involving in most cases an incision of an inch in length; the blade is then sheathed and the instrument re- moved. A gum catheter of the size of No. 9 or 10 is then introduced as after the method described above, and tied in for two or three days; after which a full-sized metallic instrument is passed daily for three or four weeks. It has been objected to all the proceedings by incision which require for their performance a previous dilatation of the stricture to the calibre of No. 4 or 5, that they must be unnecessary, since then the obstruction can, or ought to, be success- fully treated by dilatation. This, however, is not the case. Certainly in no instance should we resort to incision until all the resources of dilata- tion have been tried and found wanting. It is however an error, but a very common one never- theless, to regard the iiarrnnmeas of a stricture as the main indication for the use of these excep- tional means of cure. It is not narrowness, but non-UUaUibilily, or cmlreme co?ilraclilUij, which renders their application necessary. A stricture may be so narrow wlien first presented to the surgeon, as not to admit even a No. 1 catheter, but it may be, and usually is, easily dilated in the ordinary manner with care and patience, or even with great rapidity by tying the catheter in, that is, by continuous dilatation. On the other hiind, a stricture which habitually ndiuits No. 5, 6, or even larger sizes, is occasionally (bund, sub- I URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. 835 jecting its possessor to constant attacks of reten- tion, rendering his life miserable, and even pro- ducing the most dangerous risks to life. It ia useless to dilate it, <br repeatedly as this has been done, the general consequence is an aggravation of the symptoms, or if relief is aflforded, it is of the most temporary kind, and the symptoms return as severely as ever in a few days. Such are the cases in which the surgeon is driven to employ some more potent means, and in such it is easily seen that the size of the urethrotome forms no objection whatever. Strictures situated in the middle region of the corpus spongiosum, that is, from 2^ to 4 inches from the external meatus, more commonly exhibit these obstinate characters than the strictures which are situated in the bulb. Strictures at or near to the meatiis itself, also, are particularly rebellious to mere dilatation. Such are very easily divided, being within sight of the operator, or nearly so. A simple mode of accomplishing the object is to pass a director through the stricture, and then in its groove a straight narrow bistoury. A convenient little instrument is made for the express purpose, on the principle of the " bistourie cache'e," which I prefer to any other, its action being instanta- neous and certain. The objections still urged by some against in- ternal urethrotomy in general are that it may occasion at the time of the operation severe ha;morrhage, abscess, fever, extravasation of urine, or pyajmia. I have had the opportunity of wit- nessing its results abroad, and in my own practice at home, for those difiicult cases, for which, in the hands of others as well as my own, dilatation had utterly failed to alleviate the patient's condition, and I am bound to say I have never seen a dan- gerous, much less a fatal, result. It is true that where reckless incisions have been made—I may refer to the instrument of Reybard, of Paris, for example—deaths have not infrequently occurred ; but this method, once and recently celebrated by Its obtaining the valuable " Prix d'Argenteuil," is now, and justly, reprobated and disused. In this country it never for a moment found an advocate. Cut 111 the application of internal incision to stric- ture situated at from 4 to 5J inches from the external meatus, by the iViethod last described, I have myself operated in upwards of 100 cases, all examples of the worst and most obstinate kind.' In none was the hEemorrhage dangerously severe- in two it was continued and troublesome; in four or five shivering and fever succeeded the opera- tion ; in two the rigors were severe. There was no case in which I had reason to regret the per- formance of the operation; and in almost all the relief was so considerable as to have rendered the result equally satisfactory to the patient and to myself. Periods of eight to ten years since the performance of the operation have demonstrated the pernianenco of the benefit. Certainly then the instances in which this operation need bo performed for a stricture situated in the bulbous part of the urethra arc rare ; but I have no hesitation in saying that when performed with care and in suitable cases, it is a valuable addition to our resources against the suflerimr and danger resulting from obstinate and uniefieved stricture of the urethra. It has been said, but without the slightest authority for the statement that urethrotomy is followed bv subseqiiont in- ■,i II 2