722 On the Air and Diseases of Hai-badoea, 8vo. 1765. Ediii. Physical and Literary Kssays, vol. iii. Dr. Carter, in Medical Trans. Dr. Cochrane, in Edin. Medical Commentaries. Cullen's First Lines of the Practice of Physic, vol. iii. Jltcsh, On the Cause and Cure of Tetanus, in vol. ii. of Trans, of the American Philosophical Society. Sir Gilbert Blane, On the Diseases of Seamen, ed. 3. M. Ward, Facts estab- lishing the efficacy of Opiate Friction m Spasmodic and Febrile Diseases, &c. 8vo. Manchester, 1809. Larrev, Mi^moires de Chir. militaire, 1.1. p. 235, Sc.; t. iii. p. 236, &c. Callisen, Systema Chirurgis Ho- diernae pars i. p. 165, &c. Sir James Macgregor, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 449, &c. l>r. PhUips Case in the same work and volume, p. 65. Dr. Dick- ton's Observations on Tetanus, and Dr. MacarfJmr s Letter in vol. vii. p. 448, &c. of the samebook. Trnka deKrzoxoitz, DeTetano Commentarius, Vindob. 1777. Richerand, Nosogr. chir. t. ii. p. 338, &c. ed. iv. Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. i. p. 67, vol. ii. p. 255—430; vol. iv. p. 45, &c., &c. Bayer, Mai. chir. t. i. p. 285, &c., Paris, 1814. Rees's Cyclopsdia, art. Tetanus. C. H. Parry, Cases of Tetanus, and Rabies Contagiosa, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1814. John Mor- rison, On Tetanus, 8vo. Newry, 1816. Robert Reid, On Tetanus and Hydrophobia, 8vo. Dublin, 1817. Stewart, in Med. Chir. Journ., Oil of Turpentine tried. Sir Astley Cooper, Surgical Essays, pt. ii., p. 190. Burmester, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. Elliotson, Op. cit. vol. xv. and in Lectures. Morgan, Lecture on Tetanus, 1833. Abercrombie, On Dis. of the Brain and Spinal Cord, p. 395. Fournier-Pescay, Diet, des Sc. m^d. t. Iv. Desportes, Hist, des Mai. de St.-Doiningo, t. |ii. p. 171. O'Beirne, in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iii. Hennen's Military Sur- gery. Good's Study of Med. vol. iii. ed. 4. T. B. Curling, On Tetanus, 8vo. Carrie's Med. Reports, vol. i. p. 148. [Follin, Path. Ext. tom. i. p. 469,1861. Eeurteloup, Precis sur le T^tanos des adultes, Paris. 1789. Pescay, Du T^tanos traumatique, Bruxelles, 1803. Botson, Obs. et reflex, sur T^tanos, Thfise de Montpellier, 1850. Jules Roux,V)e I'amputation etde IMtherisme dans le T^tanos traumatique, 1848. Col- ics, On Traumatic Spasms, Dub. Quart. Journ., Feb 1852. Simpson, Cases of Tetanus following lesions of the Uterus, Abortion, and Parturition, Edin. Monthly Journ., Feb. 1854. GiweZ/e, DuTdtanos, 1855. Helft, Statistischer Bericht uber den Tetanos, Deutsche Klinik, 1858, No. 3, a German translation of the statis- tics in Guv's Hos. Rep. Demme, Beitrage zur pathol. Anat. des'Tetanos, Leipzig, 1859. Guy's Hospital Reports, Series III. vol. 3, Statistics of Tetanus. Holmes's System of Surgery, Art. Tetanus. Wernher, Handb. der Chir., Band ii. p. 91,1851. Travers, On Constitutional Irritation. Monro, Diss, de Tetanu, Edinb. 1783. Hunter's Works by Palmer, vol. 1. et. iii. Nilaton, Pathol, chir., vol. i. p. 181,1867. Lawrie, Clinical Notes and Statistics of Tetanus, Glasgow Med. Jour. vol. i. p. 339. Peat, in Trans. Med. and Phys. Society, Bombay, Scries No. 1. Aitken, Science and Practice of Medicine. Reynold's System of Medi- cine. The various weekly, monthly, and quarterly Medical Journals, Hospital Reports, &c. Morehead. Clinical Researches in India, vol. ii. p. 261.] THORAX, INJURIES OF THE. [Injuries of the thorax derive their chief interest from the importance of the contained organs, and their lia- bility to be implicated. The parietes are not un frequently contused by fiiUs, blows, and violent compression, as when a wheel passes over the body—an accident which is often attended with the most serious lesions to the viscera. As result of a contusion, the soft parts alone may suffer, and that in a slight or serious manner, There may be only (n) a trifling braise followed by temporary pain, or (6) there may be an extensive effusion of blood from the giving way of blood vessels; or (c) the muscular fibres may be torn and a very troublesome injury be produced. Again as a result of contusion, and without any wound the ribs or sternum may be broken more or less violently, or they may be displaced; and the (e) lungs and heart may be ruptured (") A mere bruise, though slight, is not unfre THORAX, INJURIES OF THE. quently followed by uneasiness for a very consider- able time. The difliculty of keeping the part at rest has mucli to do in maintaining the pain, but its continuance is also to be ascribed to the injury which the nerves of the part sustained from the original violence. The treatment con- sists in obtaining rest by tlie use of straps of adhesive plaster, applied from the spine to the sternum, and from over the shoulder down in front, so as to cover and completely fix the side; or by the use of a sufficient bandage; but all ban- dages .are difficult to keep in place, and have the great disadvantage of fixing the sound side of the chest as well as the injured, and so augmenting the restraint and uneasiness. Sedative embroca- tions and opium or belladonna plasters may also prove useful; but time and fixture are the main remedies. (b) When much blood is effused, it may be very extensive, arid form a prominent fluctuating swelling on the side of tbe chest. Rest, quiet, and cold applications in the first instance, with slightly stimulating embrocations, gentle friction and the support of a bandage afterwards, will limit the effu- sion and bring about absorption without the forma- tion of pus, which is very apt to be generated if motion is permitted, and violent friction or warm poultices are emploj'ed. (c) When the muscles are torn, they will be more or less paralysed, and blood will be freely poured out from their vessels. The breach of con- tinuity in the fibres may, if extensive, be recognised, and the treatment consists in the use of those mea- sures alluded to above for commanding the bleed- ing; and further by position and mechanical ap- pliances to approximate the divided fibres, so as to allow of their uniting. {d) The ribs and sternum, if broken or dislo- cated, may cause serious injury to the viscera, but the treatment of such an accident is considered at length elsewhere. (e) Gosselin has, in the 1st vol. of the Memoires de la Societe de Chirurgie de Paris, ably discussed the curious and previously only imperfectlj--knowa lesion of the rupture of the pulmonary tissue with- out any wound of the parietes of the chest, and he has shown how this may occur either directly at the point corresponding to the contusion, or indi- rectly at some other portion of the lung. This most grave accident, and also rupture of the heart, which has not unfrequently occurred (see Gam- gee's Researclm in Pathol. Anat. and Clinical Sur- gery), without .any wound of the thoracic walls, have usually followed a very severe contusion, as when a he.avy wheel passes over the chest; and such injury is generally (though not always) quickly fatal. Gosselin supposes that the giving way of the lung is due to its being violently com- pressed when full of air, and the larynx closed. The excessive constitutional symptoms which fol- low; the evidence of intern.al bleeding; the peculi.ir sounds heard on auscultation; the dyspno3a, pam and distress; the escape of blood by the mouth, or blood .and air into the pleural cavity if the pleura piilmonalis is torn, giving rise to the usual euj dences of hcEnio-pneumo-thorcax; , . , > _ been sustaiiiou. will abund.antly testify to the lesion which has „c„ni!«- Again, when the he.art gives way, death s usna ly r,aSid, but survival for some hours has, m excep- tiolial instances, been recorded. hv Mr that in fully half of the cases collected by Mr.