VENEREAL DISEASE. 975 The conclusions drawn by Mr. J. Lane and Mr. Oascoyen from the 27 cases under tlieir treatment, and initiated by Dr. Boeck, are iiore given in tlieir own words— The remarks suirgested by the cases above narrated may be divided into those relating to the value and effect of syphiiisation as a method of treatment, and those having reference to , the various pathological questions illustrated by the inoculations and their progress. " From the practical aspect of the question, the point to be first considered is the length of time occupied by the treatment. In those cases in wiiicii mercury had not been previously given, the inoculations occupied periods varying from six weeks to eight months and seven days. In the mercurial cases from three montlis and nineteen days to seven months and twenty days. The average in the first class was four montlis and three days ; in the second class, five months and four days ; and in the whole number of cases, four months and nine days. " This, however, does not represent the entire period during which the patients remained in the hospital, as the healing of the later inoculations required time, and was, in some of the cases, much protracted. Their stay in hospital averaged in the non-mercurial cases, five months and fifteen days ; in the mercurial cases, five months and nineteen days ; and in the whole number, five months and sixteen days. The period is calcu- lated from the date at which the inoculations were commenced. " The average duration of the sores produced by inoculation was about three weeks. The size of the ulcers varied in different individuals ; their average diameter may be stated at about half an inch. Thej- were as a rule smaller and, in every respect, milder when made on the trunk of the body than when made on the upper extremities; milder again on the upper extremities than on the lower. There was a general tendency towards diminution in size, and the sores progressed more rapidly as the treatment w.is proceedsd with, till at length it was extremely difficult, and often-im- possible, to obtain any result from inoculation. When the susceptibility of one region of the body was exhausted (the trunk, for example), the inocu- lations would take freely on the arms, and when the arms had been subjected to a like process with a like result, they would still take freely on the thighs, till a period was reached when it was next to impossible to obtain pustules at all on any part of the body, or, if obtainable, they were small and abortive, and the matter from tliem was not reinoculable. " The liealing of the sores was in several of the cases delayed considerably beyond the average period mentioned, and tins was observed to be the case more frequently on the lower extremities than elsewhere. The sores did not exhibit any great tendency to spread, tlie larger ones rarely exceeding the size of a shilling. Occasionally, however, where the punctures had been made too close together, larger sores were produced by two or more becoming confluent. " It is a very remarkable circumstance that in no case was there any perceptible alFection of the neighbouring lymphatic glands resulting from the inocnlati»i]9. The pain occasioned by the inoculated sores was discontinued. was in some cases severe, in others it appeared to be trifling. It was in almost every instance cheerfully submitted to. It was found to admit of alleviation to a great extent by careful dress- ing, so as to protect the sores from irritation and friction ; simple ointment was applied for tnia purpose. " The inoculations did not appear in any case to exercise a prejudicial influence on the health of the patients. On the contrary, most of them im- proved in appearance, and seemed to gain strength while the inoculations were going on. This, how- ever, may have been partly owing to enforced regularity in diet and habits, and to improved hygienic influences. The pustules and their re- sulting ulcers were better developed in those pa- tients who were in robust health than in those who were weakly and out of health. The number of inoculations required, before the process was completed, varied greatly. The smallest number of pustules in any case was sixty-six (Case 14), the largest number was 296 (Case 5). " The patients are, of course, permanently marked by the cicatrices. The appearance of these is very similar to those occasioned by vaccination. "We will now refer to the results obtained. First—in those cases which were uncomplicated by any previous mercurial treatment, twenty-two in number. " In sixteen of these the treatment was persevered with until an immunity, more or less complete, had been arrived at, and by the time this was effected the sj-philitic manifestations had disap- peared. In these cases, therefore, the process may be considered to have been carried to its legitimate termination. This result was ob- tained— " In 1 case ia 1 „ . . 7 cases in from 4 2 I 1 month 15 days 2 » 3 „ 3 to 4 months 4 to 5 ^ 5 to 6 „ 7 to 3 „ "Of these sixteen cases, six (Cases I, 3, 6, 10, 17, 18) have not been heard of since their dis- charge from the hospital, but ten have remained under observation up to the present time (April 1867), or to within a very recent date. Of these ten, eight (Cases 2, 5, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 16) have been inmates of the Lock Asylum ; all of them have remained in perfect health and have had no recurrence of their disease. Of the remaining two, one (Case 11) returned to the hospital with a slight relapse, in the form of mucous tubercles on the genitals, which, however, soon disappeared under simple local treatment ; the other (Case 9) has recently applied with swelling and superficial ulceration of the labium, but, as these rapidly sub- sided, and she presented no other syphilitic symp- toms, we are disposed to think it was not con- nected with her former disease. " In the remaining six cases the treatment was not persevered with to the end. Four of them, viz. the three males (Cases 20,21,22) and one of the females (Case 19), left the hospital by their own desire before it was properly completed. Of these four, we have subsequent information respect- ing one only (Case 22), who, after having been inoculated fur four months, returned with a relapse '' 'lis cutaneous eruption soon after the practico of