VENEREAL DISEASE. 986 ft local affection, or, where the local disease has been large and intractable, and the destruction of iiving tissue has been great, the constitution may become involved, and foul ulcers, of large size, cha- racterised b}' a yet more destructive action than prevailed in tiie primary disease, may form on the sur- face of the body, on the head, face, trunk, and limbs, in large numbers. These ulcers extend with great rapidity until, reaching a certain magnitude, the active process of destruction appears to exhaust itself. The duration of this form of phagedena often extends over a period of eighteen months or two years, during which the ulcerative process ceases for a time, and is succeeded by that of im- perfect granulation. But without any apparent cause these ulcers may again and again extend into wounds of formidable magnitude. " In its active forms phagedena is eminentlj'' con- tagious, and is communicated from bed to bed in hospital wards, by means of sponges, dressings, &c., attacking any and every description of wound, or other solution of continuity. " In the present state of knowledge respecting phagedena it is impossible to foretell whether or why any given sore should assume the phagedenic action, but it is known that every variety of sore may become the subject of it. Its presence betrays s defective condition of the health of those persons in whom it origin ites. Its ravages are most severe in crowded and ill-ventilated hospitals, and p rsons whose health has been undermined by the immo- derate use of mercury are more especially liable to be affected by it. " Trealmeiit of Phagedena.—In nearly all forms of phagedena the morbid action will cease on the destruction of the aifected part. The agent most generally resorted to is nitric acid, which, in the less active forms of the disease, may be reduced in strength by tlie addition of three, six, or eight proportions of water. In the severe and destruc- tive examples, nothing short of the strong acid, or any other equally powerful escharotic will suffice to arrest it. The constitutional forms are extremely intractable. They defy the ingenuity of the sur- geon, and set at nought every variety of remedy brought to bear on them. With a worn and debi- litated frame, bark, iodine, mineral acids, wine and nutritious food, and the freshest accessible atmo- sphere are the principal remedies on which reliance must be placed."] J. de Vigo, De Arte Chirurgica, fol. Lugd. 1518. N. Montesaurus, De Dispositionibus, quas vulgo Mai Franzos appellant, K.97. Nicol, Massa de Morbo Gallico, liber 4to. Venet. 1532 et 1536, auctior 1563 Nin. Leonicerus, Liber de Epidemia quam Itali Mor- bum Gallicum, Galli vero Neapolitauum vocanc, fol. Pavia, 1506. Gabr. Fnllopius, De Morbo Gallico, 4to. Patav. 1563. Nic. de Ulegny, Zodiacus Medico- Gallicus, 4to. GeneviE, 1680. Uieron. Fracastorius, Syphilis Poema ; et Tractatus lie Sypliilide. Veronae, 1530. Also, De Coniagione et Contagiosis Morbis Venet. 1546. Casp. Torelln, Tractatus cum Consiliis contra PudendaKran). Koma;, 1497. Also, Dialogus de Uolore et fie Ulceribus in Pudendagra. Roma;, 1500. Ant. Francantianui, De Morbo Gallico, 8vo. I'atav. 1563. .hil. Palmarius, De Morbis Contagiosis, 4to. Paris, 1578. Guil. Hondeleteiis, De Morbo Gallico, 1576. J. Fcnielius, Univerea Meilicina, 4to. Venet. 1564, pp. 584, 593, &c. Ulrich von Hntteii, De Morbo Gallico. Mogunt. 1531. R. lionlinio, Trattato di Mai. Ifrancese, 12nio. Venet. 1550. Al. Liudnus, Apliroilif-iucus. Venet. 1566, et in 2 torn. fol. Lu^d. l4at. 1728: one of the most valuable collections of th(! w irks of ancient writers on Syphilis. Diaz de Ida, 'I'ratado contra los Bubas, 1527. Wm. Clowes, A new and approved Treatise, concerning the Cure of the French Pockes, by the Unctions, 8vo. Lond. 1575 : said to be theearliest Kngllsli book on Syphilis, J. Astruc, De Morbis Venereis. Lutet. Paris, 1740. Le Blond, Obs. sur la Fifevre jaune, chap. 4. Lei Africanus, Descriptio Africa;, I. i. p. 86. The last two authors mention the fact of the V'enercal Disease getting well spontaneously in hot climates. Dao. Abercrombi/, Tuta ac efiicax Luis Venerea;, Sicpe absque Mercurio, ac semper absque Sallvatione Mercurial!, Curanda; Methodus. Lond. 12mo. 1684. .T. Sinlelaer, The Scourge of Venus and Mercury, re- presented in a Treatise on the Venereal Disease, giving a succinct Accountof that dreadful Distemper, and the (atal consequences arising; from Mercurial Cures, &r., with the true Way of curing the Mercurial Pox, found to be more dangerous than Pox itself. Lond. 1709, il/or^ai/fij, De Sedibus, &c. Morborum. .John Douglas, Dissertation on the Venereal Disease, wherein a Method of curing all the Stages of that Distemper will be communicated, without the Help of any Mercurial Drenches, Vomits, or Fumigations, &c., and, above all, a Salivation in all Cases will be avoided, 8vo. Lond. 1737. Ludolff, Demonstratio, quod atrocissimse Luis Venerea Syniptomata non sint Affectus Morbi, sed Curae Mercunalibus lusti tuta;. Erf. 1747. C. Willoughby, The Practice o( Salivation shown to be of no Use. Lond. 1723. J. Profily, An Easy and Exact Method of Curing the Venereal Disease, &c.; to which are added. Experi- ments publickly made of an effectual Method of Cure without Salivation or Confinement, 8vo. Lond. 1748. li'm. Bromfield, Accountof the English Nightshade, &c., and Observ. on the Use of Corrosive Sublimate, Sarsaparilla, and iVlercury. Also of the Cure by tht Secretion of Urine, 8vo. Lond. 1759. N. de Jansen, Tableau des Maladies v^n^rieiiues, consid^rd par rapport aux diiferentes Manieres de les traiter ; avec une nouvelle M^thode de les gu<5rir, e.xempte de San- vation, etc. 8vo. Paris, 1745. Amst. 1736. J. Gros- man, A Treatise for the Service of Chemistry, &c.; and Considerations on the Lues Venerea, with its Cure without Mercury, 4co. Lond. 1766. Astruc, Traiti? des Tumeurs ec des Ulciires, et sur la Nature des Nouveaux Remedes antivdn^riens, 2torn. 12mo.Paris, 1759. Galaker, On Venereal Complaints, 1754. C. Hales, Salivation not necessary for the Cure ot Vene- real Diseases, 8vo. Lond. 1764 and 1772. Dan. Turner, Aphrodisiacus, containing a Summary of the Ancient Writers on the Venereal Disease, 8vo. Lond. 1733. Wm. Beehet, History and Antiquity of the Venereal Disease. Lond. 1740. Fordyce, on the Venereal Disease, 1777. Plenck, Doctrina de Morbis Venereis. Viennae, 1779. Chr. Goitfr. GiU.ier, Aphrodisiacus, sive de Lue Venerea, in duas Partes divisus ; quarum una continet ejus vestigia in veterum auctorum mo- numenta obvia ; altera, quos Aloysius Luisinus temerfe omisit scriptores, fol. Jense, 1789. Also, Prograra- inata Spicileg. Scriptorum de Morbo Gallico. Jeme, 1779, &c. J. Arnemann, De Morbo Venereo Aualecta ex Manuscriptis Musei Britannici Londiuensis. Goet. 1789. M. Gautier Dagoty, Exposition Anatoraique des Manx vdn^riens, fol. Paris, 1773. Christ. Gir- tanner, Abhandlung uber die Venerische Krankheit, 8vo. Gijtt. 1788. H. Ctutterbuck, On some of the Opinions of the late John Hunter, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1799. S. Chapman, A Treatise on the Venereal Disease, being chiefly designed as an Abridgement of Dr. Astruc's Work, 2nd ed.; to which are added the Improvements, with regard to the Use of Sarsapa- rilla, Mezereon, and Sublimate; as also an account of Pienck's Method of Cure, 8vo. Lond. 1770. IF. Dease, On the different Methods of treating the Vene- real Di£.ense, 8vo. Dublin, 1783. P. Clare, A New .Method of curing Lues Venerea by the Introduction of Mercury through the Orifices of the Absorbent Vessels on the Inside of the Mouth, 3rd ed. LonU. 1730. .Tesse Footc, Obs. on the New Opinions of John Hunter, 8vo. Lond. 178C-J7; also, Couiphte Treatise on the Venereal Disease, 8vo. Lond. C. B. Trye, A Review of Jesse Foote's Obs. on the New Opinions of Hunter,8vo. Lond. 1787. B. Bell, Trea- tise on Oonorrhosa Virulenta, and Lues Venerea, ed. 3. Lalouette, Nouvelle Mi^-thode de traiter les Mala- dies v(5n(5riennes par la Fumigation, etc. Paris, 1776. .lolin Hunter, A Treatise on the Venereal Diseast, 2nd. eil.: also with Dr. Adams's Commentary, or Palmer's ed. with notes by Babington. S. Saurey, An Inquiry into some of the Eliects of the Venerea Poison, 8vo. Lond. 1802. Jos. Adams, On Morbid Poisons, ed. 2. J. Pearson, on the Kftects of various.