NECROSIS, the tumour 13 of considerable size, this plan np penrs safer than excision. Merc thickenings, and discolourations of the rete uiucosum, have sometimes been removed by a mixture of spirit, and the liquor potassa;, {Datemajt, p. 330.) I have touched several superficial ncevi on in- fants with diluted nitric acid, by which means tliey have been gradually dispersed. Formerly caustic was much in vogue for the removal of nrevi; but, unless its action extend deeply enough to destroy every part of the disease. It may cause a dangerous and useless degree of irritation, copious hemorrhages, and a sudden and latal enlargement of the tumour. It cannot be denied, however, that the old surgeons had success with their caustics, when na2vi did not extend too deeply. Thus, in speaking of caustic remedies, Calhsen observes: "inter quae eximio cum suc- cessii adiiibetur sapo cum fequali parte calcis vivfe subtihssime commixtus, naevo per emplastrum perforatum admovendus, et alio eniplastro impo- sito firmandus ; hoc remedio eschara inuritur, qua soluta, cicatrix alba remanere solet." (Syst. Clanirgioi Hodiernce, vol. ii. p. 202.) Mr. Wardrop, having seen cases in which nsvi were cured by accidental attacks of ulceration and sloughing, which destroyed a great part of the tumour, and brought on such inflammation as con- solidated the rest, was led to imitate this process by adopting the ancient practice of applyin-^ the kah purum. He found the method ans^ver in severa instances. I lately attended, with Jephson, a child at Hampton, which had a iiavns of some thickness on the fore-arm, and equal to a crown- picceinsize. We.attacked it with the kali purum, and a cure was soon effected. In the article Aneurism, in speaking of aneurism by anastomosis (p. 197), I have noticed Mr. AeatL- s improvement in the mode of applyincr ligatures by transfixing the tumom- with long pins and then surrounding its base with a ligature. bmall and trifling erectile tumours (says Mr Liston), favourably situated may be removed with the knile ; but it is not a safe practice, and an in- stantly fatal result from hemorrhage has more than once followed the attempt. In children, it is seldom admissible, for, as is well known, they bear the loss of blood badly. The mode of removing this dis- ease by ligatures was well known to Mr. Bell and It has been followed by Messrs. A. White' Lawrence, and a variety of others. The ligature cnnnot be applied with propriety, when the skin is much affected ; and when extensively included the strangulation of the mass can only be effected py slow degrees ; the tumour perishes only from inHammation, and from deficient power in the part- deformity besides is jiroduced. This is a very painful and tedious process, but it may be accel- lerated by the application of fresh ligatures from time to time. The ligature alone is applicable in some instances as where the diseased part is small proniinent; and nearly the whole of its covering 3 involved. The object must be to remove the^ad' vent, lous tissue thoroughly, so that there shall be no return. Should it be impossible to include t entirely and should some small portio s « by chance left out, it may possibly happen tint \l vessels shall be closed ly fib^ous'^o " b« J s IS not to be depended upon. Reprod,icti'o„ " the disease has too often followed operations thu . , 321 imperfectly performed." Mr. Liston then describes his mode 01 applying the ligatures. '' When the skin IS of necessity to be tied with the tumour 0 e or more ligatures are to be passed underneath A double ligature, carried by a common suture needle (or another instrument represented in his work^ will_ answer perfectly. The loop is cut, and one portion tied on each side, in order to make the ligatures embrace the base thoroughly ; a second needle, or hare-lip pin, may be thrust across in the opposite direction, and removed after the threads are drawn and fixed under them ; or the pin may' be clipped short, and left to come away with the threads and tumour. This mode I have followed with goad success for a series of years, and in nu- merous cases. When the skin is slightly, or not at all affected, and the subcutaneous tumour is large he covering should be turned back, and the bVa- ures then employed. I operated, for a tumour°in this situation, a few weeks ago, on a little girl, who had been subjected to several unsuccessful oper- ations previously. One needle, that across the raprbid mass, was in the first instance introduced without a ligature, after the incisions had been made ; the tumour w.1s raised by means of it, and the second needle passed underneath the first car- rying a strong thread ; the loop of this was laid hold of with a hook, and the needle withdrawn upon the ligature. The first needle was then armed also and the double ligature brought through with It. These were then secured." (See J^iston s Fractioal Surgery, p. 281.) For additional remarks, see ANEunis.v. Consult Pelit's OJuvres Pnsthumo.; <■ ; t Pathologie Chir. tTp ^7(5 &c ert i'Jiq Vir'*"?' Svstenn riiirnwri,;. L*^ 1- ' Callisen's Precis Eiementaire dcs Maladies Cliir t iU n^tl'l' p^'^^^^aKFra-fi^T NliC^ROSIS. (From ratpow, to destroy.) This word, the strict meaning of which is only mortifi- cation IS by the general consent of surgeons, con- fined to this affection of the bones. It was first used, in this particular sense, by the celebrated M. Louis who restricted its application, however 0 examples, in which the whole thickness of a bone was destroyed. See Man. de I'Acad, do Unr. t. V. 4to.) By the ancients, the death of parts ot bones was not distinguished from caries. However, necrosis and caries are essentially dif- ferent; for, in tile first, the affected part of the bone IS deprived of the vital principle; but this is not the case when it is simply carious. Caries is very analogous to ulceration, while necrosis closely resembles mortification of the soft parts. Between caries and necrosis, says Weidmann there is all that difference, which exists between ulcers and gangrene, or sphacelus, of the soft parts. In caries, the nutrition of tlic bono is only im- paired, and an irregular action disunites the clo mcntsof the bony structure, which consequentlv sustains a loss of substance; but every reni iining