temperature is migTiientod the chemical changes which are a cause of attraction of blood are also augmented. From this statement it may be con- cluded that the primitive and, I may say, by far the principal cause of augmentation in the afflux of blood is the absence of contraction of the blood- vessels, which allows the liquid to pass easier there than elsewhere." In short, neuro paralysis gives rise to certain phenomena closely corresponding to, and often actually ending in inflammation. In the same chapter, Brown Sequard admits that a good deal more may actually take place than mere stimula- tion and paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, but this part of the question has been more fully worked out b)"^ others. 6. Doctrine of active dilatation of arteries.—Of those who have adopted the doctrine of an active dilatation of vessels through a nerve stimulus, Morilz SchifF appears to have been one of the earliest. In his Zcfows sur la Physiologic de la Digestion (vol. i. p. 287), this clever experimenter says:—" It was the attentive observation of the normal ear of the rabbit which led me, for my pari-, to formulate for the first time in a more positive fashion, the hypothesis of the active dilatation of vessels. If the ear of a rabbit be held out against the light and its principal artery watched, it will speedily be seen that the diameter of the vessel does not remain constant, but that the trunk shows throughout its entire length alternate contractions and dilatations, succeeding each other slowly and not isQchronoas with the beats of the heart. These rythmical changesin the state of fulness of theartery, constitute a true systole and diastole, independent, I repeat, of the beats of the heart, and much slower than they. Supposing the heart of the rabbit contracts on an average 220 times per minute, the systole in the ear has only taken place from two to eight times in the same period, as I have a?cer. tained from a great number of individuals. The hare and rabbit are the only mammals which present this kind of heart in the ear as far as I have hitherto seen (1868). It is also to be noted that the diastole of the artery coincides with no contraction of the vein ; on the contrary, at the moment of arterial expansion, all the vessels visible in the organ are more strongly injected with blood than during the period of contraction. The only explanations possible are that the dilatation is passive, i.e., due to a return to the normal state after active contraction, or both arealike the result of nerve action, that is to say, active, and produced by the activity of an antagonistic set of nerves to those which cause contraction. Ji/Tect of nerve section on active dilatation.—That these phenomena are due to nerve action is shown ny the fact that if the vascular nerves supplying the cars are cut, the rythmic movements of the vessels cease — irregular movements may take place, but regular movements no more. It is plain, were the movements due to relaxation of the muscular fibres surrounding the vessels, section of the nerves ought to increase their condition of dila- tation ; and this is true of them for a day or two, but .nfter that the diameter begins to diminish, the other effects of the nerve section still remaining, in pomt of fact tlie vessels become less than do those •*n the sound side, and in this state they mav re- niain for months. Paralysis from section of These nerves, then, is an obstacle to the actual diastole spnken of. Vol. II, INFLAMMATION. j-^gj Vu.icitlar dilatation as a refer plionomenon. The principal auricular nerves are the sympathetic, the effects of which have been duly considered ; the auricular branch of the cervical plexus, commonly dividing into an external and an internal branch, and branches of the facial and trigeminal. Of tiiese the cervical auricular acts much like the sympathetic, but the efl^ects of its section speedily cease, the congestion of the ear speedily passing awaj'. But if now, when this has come about, the central extremity of the cut nerve be irritated, vas- cular dilatation again promptly follows. That is to say, irritation of a sensory nerve induces vascular dilatation in the ear of the rabbit. Of course this causes pain and the pain may aflfect the heart, and so for an instant causes blanching of the rabbit's ear, but this is merely momentary, and after it comes the hyperemia. Arterial dilatation active, not passive.—On this phenomenon Bonders founded the hypothesis that the sensory nerve conveyed the impulse to the brain, whence it passed to tho vnso-motor nerves, which caused the momentary blanching, bnt speedily becoming tired out they gave way, and dilatation followed. But this, certain facts observed with regard to rabbits exposed to a high temperature after section of the sj^mpathetic tend to disprove. Perhaps even more conclusive are other experi- ments, such as inducing artificial fever or inflam- mation in dogs whose sympathetic was divided on one side. At the beginning of the experiment tl^e temperature on the affected side was 2° to 4° C. higher than on the other, but they speedily became equal, and by-and-bye the temperature on the sound side exceeded that with vaso-motor paralysis. The general law is, therefore, a portion of the body affected with vaso-motor paralysis does not, under conditions of fever affecting all the body alike, become so much heated as do the parts where the vaso-motor nerves are unimpaired. A weighty conclusion truly. It will be noted that all these experiments were undertaken on the trunks of nerves and not on nerve centres. A reference to glandular physiology will make tl.is matter clearer. (Schiff, o/;. eit, p. 271.) taking the submaxillary gland as the type—exci- tation of the chorda tympani, and submaxillary branch of the lingual induces the flow of saliva— probably because they contain fibres which cause active dilatation of the glandular vessels. Irritation of the sympathetic decreases the blood flow and the secretion. A good number of experiments show however, that when the sympathetic is stimulated lor a second or two the flow is increased (though as pointed out by Eckhard, the saliva is so den^o that It does not flow readily from the cavicula, and so the increase may fail to be observed). ' The initial flow might be due to the influence"of tho dilator fibres which probably exist in the sympa- thetic. 7. Action of nerve on tissue. Tropldc nerves ? —Here we may refer to certain researches on the salivary glands by Pfliigor. {^vc passim, Strichr'a Utstologj/, Sj/d. Soc. Trans., vol. i. p. 423 ct seij.) The secreting portion of tho submaxillary gland consists of an epithelium, and into the proto. plasm of each of these cells Pflliger has traced nerve fibres of tho non-medullated kind. It is right to say that many niicioscopists of repute hnvo not been able to follow his observations, but that does not prove that they are delusive. But it ia