VENESECTION. 989 before the vein itself is opened ; but this is quite iinnecessnry. In this country the fashion of open- ing: the jugular vein has considerably declined. In fact, the operation is more troublesome, and less certain of succeeding, than venesection in tliearm; while the principle which recommended the prac- tice to the old surgeons, namely, that of more ett'ectiially discharging in this manner blood from the sinuses of the brain, is erroneous; for it is only the external jugular vein that can be safely opened, and this does not receive the blood from the interior of the head. Now that the danger of air insinuating itself into the large veins of the neck is so generally known (see Veins), it appears tome that the operation of bleeding in the external jugular vein is likely to become still less fashionable than it was, and that care should always be taken to keep up the pres- sure, until the compress has been securely fixed over the puncture. [In young children and infants blood may be taken from the jugular vein when none can be ob- tained from the arm at the bend of the elbow.] When blood is to be taken from the foot, the ligature is commonly applied a little above the ankle. Blood-letting in the feet is executed on the same principle as in other parts ; but, as the blood from the veins in this situation generally does not flow with much celeritj', it is customary to im- merse the feet in warm water to promote the bleeding. In orchitis, or acute inflammation of the testis, a beneficial discharge of blood may often be obtained from the veins of the scrotum. The recollection of this fact may be useful, particularly when leeches are not at hand, and the surgeon has no cupping instruments, by which the blood can be drawn from the loins. Ill Conseqitences sometimes following Bleeding in the Arm. 1. Eccliymosis. — The most common is the thrombus, or ecchymosis, a small tumour around the orifice, and occasioned by the blood insinua- ting itself into the adjoining cellular substance at the time when it is flowing out of the vessel. Changing the posture of the arm will frequently hinder the thrombus from increasing in size, so as to obstruct the evacuation of the blood. But, in some instances, the tumour suddenly becomes 80 large that it entirely interrupts the operation, and prevents it from being finished. In these cases, however, the most effectual method of pre- venting the tumour from becoming still larger is to remove the bandage. By allowing the bandage to remain, a very considerable swelling may be induced, and such as might be attended with great trouble. If more binod be required to be tiken away, it ought to be drawn from another vein, and, what is still better, from a vein in the other arm. The best applications for promoting the absorption of these tiinmurs are those con- taining spirit, vinegar, or the muriate of ammonia. Compresses wetted with any lotion of this sort may be advantageously put on the swelling, and confined there with a slack bandage. 2. fiijlamwiilitiii of the Iiilcyume.nls and stihjacrnt Cellular Tissue.—InHannnation and suppuration of the cellular substance in which the vein lies are occasionally met with. On the subsidence of this inflammation, the tube of the vein is free from induration. Sometimes the inflammation is rather indolent, producing a circumscribed and slowly suppurating tumour. Sometimes it is more diffused, and partakes of the erysipelatous nature. On other occasions it is phlegmonous. When the lancet has been blunt, so ns rather to have lacerated than cut the parts, when the con- stitution is irritable, and especially when care is not taken to unite the edges of the puncture, and the arm is allowed to move about, so as to make the two sides of the wound rub against each other, inflammation will most probably ensue. The treat- ment of this case consists in keeping the arm per- fectly at rest in a sling, applying the saturnine lotion, and giving one or two mild saline purges. If suppuration take place, a small poultice is the best application. 3. Absorhents inflamed.—Sometimes, particularly when the arm is not kept properly quiet after bleeding, swellings make their appearance about the middle of the arm, over the large vessels, and on the forearm, about the mid-space between the elbow and wrist, in the integuments covering the flexor muscles. The swelling of the absorbent gland at the inner edge of the biceps is sometimes as large as an egg. Before such swellings take place, the wound in the vein often inflames, be- comes painful, and suppurates, but without any perceptible induration of the venal tube, either at this time, or after the subsidence of the inflamma- tion. Pain is felt shooting from the orifice in the vein, in lines up and down the arm, and upon pressing in the course of this pain, its degree is increased. On examining the arm attentively, indurated absorbents may be plainly felt, leading to the tumour just above the elbow at the side of the biceps muscle. The pain and swelling often extend to the axilla, where the glands also sometimes enlarge. Cord- like substances, evidently absorbents, may some- times be felt, not only leading from the puncture to the swelling in the middle of the arm, but also from this latter situation up to the axillary glands, and from the wound in the vein down to the enlarged glands at the mid-space between the elbow and wrist, over the flexor muscles of the hand. The enlarged glands often proceed to suppura- tion, and the patient suffers febrile symptoms. It may be suspected that the foregoing consequences arise from the lancet being envenomed, and from the absorption of the virulent matter ; but the frequent descent of the disease to the inferior ab- sorbents militates against this supposition. When the absorbents become inflamed, thev quickly communicate the affection to the surround- ing cellular substance. These vessels, when in- durated, appear like small cords, in some cases as large as one-eighth of an inch in diameter : this substance cannot he the slender sides of the vessels suddenly increased in bulk, but an induration of the surrounding cellular substance. The inflanuualion of the absorbents, in conse- quence of local injury, is dedncible from two causes ; one, the ahsorption of irritating matter • and the other, the effect of the mere irritation of the divided tube. When virulent nuitter is taken up by the absorbents, it is generally conveyed to the next absorbent gland, where its progress being retarded, its stimulating qualities give rise to in-