PREGNANCY. 476 be a case of " missed labour," of which instances have been recorded b)' Dr. Oldham {Pathological Transactions, 1846) and Dr. McClintrick {Duhiin Quarterly Journal of Medicine, 1064). The foetus may have perished, and be retained in utero; or the pregnancy may be extra-uterine, and there is no limit, except the duration of the woman's life, to the time during which she may carry an extia-uterine foetus. In order to appreciate rightly the relations of the state of pregnancy to the course of a surgical disease, and to the process of repair after acci- dental injury or surgical operations, some account must be given of the changes wrought in the blood by pregnancy and the puerperal state. Baillie and others looked on pregnancy as " a state analogous to inflammation ; " the decidua he likens to false membrane, and the liquor amnii to serous effusion. This is no doubt an extreme view. Andral and Gavarret found that from the first to the sixth month the fibrin of the blood was below the physiological mean, and during the last three months above the mean ; whilst throughout there was a diminution of globules. ' Becquerel and Rodier say tlie water, the fibrin, and the pbos- phorized fat are increased, whilst the globules and albumen are diminished. Probably if organic chemistry were more ad- vanced there would be also found various excre- mentitious matters. The general condition of the blood is most nearly that of hydrsemia. A bruit de souffle is frequently heard in the heart of pregnant women. Some diseases of the circulation and respiration resulting from pregnancy have been elaborately described by Dr. de Cristoforis {Annali Universali cli Medicina, Milano, 1863). He traces most of them to pressure. The gravid uterus, he says, presses upon the abdominal aorta and vena cava, causes an obstacle at the point of pressure, and hence there is accumulation of the arterial blood in the upper parts of the body. This produces a mechanical superior arterial liy- perceinia, and tlie retarded blood in the lower limbs leads to inferior venous cedema. This me- chanical difficulty, and, perhaps, in a still greater degree, the augmented physiological work thrown upon the circulating mass by the call to sub- serve the functions of nutrition and purification of two organisms, give rise to some degree of hypertrophy of the heart, a condition quite ana- logous to the muscular growth of the uterus, and like it subsiding after pregnancy. Tims it is observed that the pulse in pregnancy is accelerated. This state has been well described by Larcher (ArcMves Gaicrales de Medecine, 1859), by Nataiis, Guillot, and others. Now it is easy to believe that a heart thus acting at high pressure upon blood thus materially modified, may exertan important influence on the progress of tumors and the process of repair after extensive wounds. And in certain cases, the blood-changes are so exaggerated that the kidney or liver are quite overpowered, and albuminuria or jaimdice follows. But the changes following upon delivery are often more striking still. Gassner (^Monalssckrifi fur Gehurtskunde, 1862) has shown that by the act of delivery a woman loses one-tenth part of her body- weight. Tiiis is probably n larger proportion than is lost by the patient who undergoes amputation at the thigh. And a further change goes on for two or tliree weeks after this sudden separation. The superfluous tissue of the utetus is removed with marvellous rapidity. All this tissue is first converted into fat, then absorbed into the circula- tion, to be got rid of by the secreting and excre- ting organs. Unless these organs act energeticallj', the blood certainly undergoes deterioration. In- deed the excreting organs are so severely taxed in childbed that it must be very hazardous to throw upon them or the degraded blood the further task which the process of suppuration or repair attend- ing an operation involves. The special condition of the breast deserves particular attention. The stimulus of secretion now draws a large afflux of blood to the organ ; its tissues are increased in bulk, and not seldom the increased turgor runs into inflammation and abcess. It would be wise to postpone any operation upon the breast for at least three weeks if possible, and the question of weaning and arresting the secretion of milk alto- gether must first be seriously considered. In many women, indeed, a condition of anaemia is induced or aggravated by lactation, which partlj' impairs the nutritive property of the blood, and predisposes to slow phlegmasia and suppu- ration. This is especially seen in the frequency of inflammations of the breast, of the cellular tissue of the pelvis, of the peritoneum, and of sub-acute metritis. The condition then of the system after delivery is not favourable to the success of surgical operations. The influence of pregnancy upon various dis- eases may be supposed to throw some light upon the question under discussion. It has been af- firmed that pregnancy retards the progress of some diseases, notably of phthisis. I much doubt whether this opinion is the result of accurate ob- servation. It is not intelligible how blood which has lost somewhat of its puritj^, which is certainly poorer, and whose nutritious property is taxed to the utmost to supply the uterus and foetus, can be fitted to suspend or to cure tubercular deposition. Apart from a priori reasoning, trusting to clinical observations alone, I am convinced that phthisis is actually accelerated by pregnancy. The same is true of heart disease, and of lung diseases generallj^ Cancer, certainly, if aflecting the breast or cervix uteri, proceeds unchecked, if not stimulated to increased activity. Fibroid growths in the uterine walls, and polypi projecting into the uterine cavitj^ grow at an accelerated rate. Of course morbid processes falling within the imme- diate sphere of the developmental nisus, so active in the generative organs during pregnancy, may be expected to partake of that local activity. But since it is generally true that morbid growths and morbid processes flourish most in systems fed by impoverished and degraded blood, it is reasonable to anticipate that pregnancy will act prejudicially. Experience will probably show that pregnancj^ exasperates most or all morbid processes, whether they be contiguous to, or remote from, the uterus. The influence of pregnancy in exacerbating local or general diseases is also illustrated by the fre- quency with which abortion and premature labour ensue under these complications. Dubois says gestation may become the cause ot numerous pathological conditions ; it aggravates most of those which arise during its existence, and it preserves from none. One objection to the performance of severe sur- gical operations during pregnancy applies es-