moved, and if suffocation threaten, tlien an open- ing below their seat may be called for. In sudden and violent inllivmmation, as that which follows the imbibition of hot water or steam, or caustic solu- tions; in oedema, or spasm of the glottis, arising from any cause; in laryngitis; in pressure on the windpipe by a foreign body impacted in the gullet; occasionally in cut throat, and wounds and rupture of the windpipe; in sloughing of the throat, as after scarlet fever; in "epilepsea laryngea;'' sometimes even in extensive emphysema, or in cellu- lar iuHammation of the neck; in croup, diphtheria, &c.where false membranes obstruct the air passages; in fractures and displacement of the hyoid bone or the cartilages of the larynx, and sometimes in necrosis of these bodies; in narrowing or partial obliteration of the windpipe by cicatrices or disease; more rarely in paralysis of the larynx, and as a palliative in hydrophobia, tetanus, poison- ing, &c. The growths which may obstruct the windpipe, and which may lie external to it or occupying its interior, are very numerous. Can- cer, tubercle, aneurism, abscess, polypi, syphilitic or other warts, calculi, cysts, goitre, hydatids, &c., &c. 2nd. For the removal of foreign bodies from the air passages. Tracheotomj' is for obvious rea- sons more successful in such cases than when per- formed for the relief of disease, 3rd. The windpipe may also require to be opened, in cases of asphyxia, to allow of artificial respiration being more easily and effectually per- formed. 4th, and lastly. It may be undertaken solely to give rest to the upper part of the windpipe, or to allow of direct medication of the diseased parts, as in inflammation, ulceration, and sloughing of the larynx from any cause, wounds, growth within the canal, fracture and necrosis of cartilage, &c., &c. It is doubtless mainly due to the too delayed performance of the operation in many cases that practical results have not always responded to the promise theory suggested. Secondary complica- tions have been allowed to arise, and tiie removal of the primary condition has become of less mo» ment. This remark is especially true as regards tracheotomy in croup and diphtheria, wlien a lui- tural hesitation is feit to undertake what appears a formidable or possibly needless operation, while in truth it is the sole safety by preventing those fatal complications which so soon render all treatment abortive. So long as tracheotomy is looked on as a hist resource, nothing more can be expected of it than of other remedies vainly had recourse to in like desperate circumstances. The windpipe, subcutaneous in its upper por- tions, gets deeper as it passes downwards, espe- cially in short-necked, fat persons, till at the epi- sternal notch it reaches a considerable depth. This circumstance, of itself, renders operations on the upper parts of the passage easier and less danger- ous than those on the lower. The windpipe is opened at various parts of its extent. In tracheotomy the aperture may be nuide either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid; or the crico-thyroid membrane may be opened (" laryngotomy or that membrane may be tirst incised, anil the cricoid cartilage and a few rings of the trachea afterwards split (" laryngo- tracheotomy "), oryet again, in certain rare circuni- ilOTOMY. 75S stances, an opening may lie made mwch. higher in the canal, viz. in the hyo-thyroid membrane (" sus-hyoidienne " operation of Vidal de Cassis). Analoiit!/.—The different portions of the wind- pipe and their relationship to one anotlier must be carefully studied as regards these operations. In passing from above downwards we have the follow- ing parts occurring in succession in the middle line. The hyoid bone, lying a short way below the chin, can be easily defined, then the hyo-thyroid space divides it from the thyroid cartilage, which, by its projection in the neck, forms one of the leading landmarks, especially in the male. A bursa occa- sionally lies in front of the "pomum Adami," or more prominent part of the cartihige, and the notch which occupirs the middle space above the projection is a useful guide to the centre line of the neck. The thyroid cartilage has been split for the removal of a foreign body from the neigh- bourhood of the vocal cords. About an inch below the prominence of the thyroid, and lying quite superficially, we have the crico-thyroid apace, then the cricoid cartilage, which, from being a complete circle of cartilage, presents a firmness and resist- ance which can be distinguished with ease at every age, and in all states. In any case of doubt it is best found by searching upwards from the epi-sternal notch for the first point of resistance. Beneath the cricoid comes the trachea, parsing backwards as well as downwards, and measuring in the adult 4i inches to the sternum. It is crossed on its 2nd or 3rd ring (rarely as high as its 1st), i.e. about an inch below the cricoid, by the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The breadth of this isthmus varies considerably, being usually greater in females. The gland is little developed in inlants. The windpipe occupies the centre of a triangular space, the base of which is formed by the hyoid bi ne and the sides by the sterno-mas- toid muscles. ...The apex is formed by the epi- sternal notch. Over the trachea lies the skin, which is very movable and easily displaced, a circumstance which should be borne in mind in making incisions through it, as in traclieotomy. The superficial and deep cervical fascia, the anterior fibres of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, which, meeting in the middle line, are connected by some cellular tissue, and below these we have some loose cellular tissue lying over the air tube. The middle thyroid veins lie above the sternum, and cover the lower part of the trachea, on the middle line of which there are usually two chief trunks, and in tile infant the thymus gland may project some way above the sternum. The hyo-thyroid membrane is pierced by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery—a vessel of insignilicant size. The crico-thyioid membrane again is crossed by a small arterial communication : wiiile the isthmus of the thyroid gland is occupicLl by a venous plexus formed by the thyroid veins, which is capable of giving the utmost annoyance if wounded, and will consequently rei|uire to be avoided or secured before being divided. Those are the chief vessels met witli in front of the windpipe. Occasionally a small artery—the .ar- teria tliyroidea iiiia ("middle thyroid " of Harrison, " the artery of Neubauer"), arising from the arch of the aorta or the iniiominata, or, in yet rarer cases, from the internal mammary, traverses the middle line under the deep fascia, passing upwards