NEURALGIA, the most powerful ; I have nconitina is by far , . seen great, though seldom permanent, benefit from it. Fleming's tincture of aconite may be painted over the nerve ; it requires great care, nor should it be used if the skin is abraded. I have seen "ne patient nearly poisoned by painting too much uf it upon the recently shaved chin. Chloroform mny be used locally in a liniment or by kself on lint under a watch-glass {Little, Rank- im/'s Abstract, vol. xxxi.) by inhalation, or by the mouth: a case of long standing was cured after taking a single dose of chloroform, I believe only five minims, by the mouth (C. H. Hawkins). By inhalation : some patients inhale many ounces a day during the paroxysm, which the chloroform will arrest, often sending the patient to sleep. I have seen several cases, iu which the skin was rendered very yellow, from the frequent repetition of the inhalation. The local injection of chloroform beneath the skin will arrest the paroxysm, and cause sleep ; it should not, however, be had recourse to, as it devitalizes the skin for many weeks. (Medical Times and Gazette, Sept. 10, 1859.) Dr. Downing has great faith in the inhalation ot medicated vapours, the drugs employed beincr henbane, hemlock, belladonna, aconite, Indian hemp, eic.{DowningonNem'a.lyia,C\mTQ<nm, 1851.) M. Bouchut has employed the tincture of iodine' locally as a counter-irritant, with success in several cases (^ledical Circular, 1863). Occasionally some one of these local measures will do more than remove the paroxysm; it will even cure the neuralgia. From simple blistering I have seen but little benefit; in sciatica I have often seen no benefit at all from it. It mfurdo more good when small blisters are applied, ferhaps many of them in succession, over the tender neuralgic points of Valleix ; but this mode of treatment is painful, tedious, and disagreeable -to the patient, and much less successful than many other plans of treatment ; nor have I ever seen much benefit from sprinkling the denuded derma with morphia. The amount thus used must be uncertain. Almost similar, but more likely to be eflfective, is the method of the French, called Vinoculation d'o la morphine. They dissolve morphia in water or creosote, and make a sufficient number of pricks with a lancet in the course of the nerve to take in all the morphine paste {Nysten). Acupunc- ture consists in introducing sharp-pointed needles into the subcutaneous tissues of the body, sometimes into the muscles themselves; they are allowed to remain a longer .or shorter time, at the will of the operator. They are supposed to act either by counter-irritation {Holmes' Surgery, vol. iii.); or, if they are inserted into the nerve Itself, by the mechanical assistance they afford towards the evacuation of fluid from the sheath of the nerve. Dr. Ogier Ward thinks highly of this plan in painful muscular rigidity. EI?ctro-puncture is tar more painful than simple acupuncture ; it consists in passing a galvanic current into the tis- sues included between the acupuncture needles. Dr. Ruppanor, who has lately written upon Hypodermic Injections, has injected irritants in five cases into the neuralgic parts, the principle being that of producing a small abscess as coiinter- irntation for the nerve : he injects the nitrate of silver and chloride of sodium. {Antoine Ruppancr on Hypodermic Injections, 186,5, Boston). His Vol. II, 353 cases are chiefly neuralgia of spinal origin, affect- ng the limbs or trunk-a class of cases rno"; 1^1 to receive beneht from such counter-irritation! acting like a setoi), than would cases of facial neuralgia.] ' Tub Divlsion and Removal of Poktions op Nerves. The operation of dividing the trunk of the af- tected nerve, and even of dissecting out a portion of It, so as to prevent all chance of a relapse from the reunion of the ends of the nerve, is a plan which has sometimes been practised with perma- nent benefit. Thus, any one of the three branches ot the hfth pair of nerves may be divided at the point where it comes out upon the face. But before having recourse to ;this means, the surgeon .should be sure that the particular nerve, which he IS about to expose and divide, is really the princi- pal seat of the disease ; for when all the nerves of the face generally are affected, or when the branches of the portio-dura are especially con- cerned, there is little hope of success. In fact, it must be confessed that the operation has had many failures and relapses, either from the cases not having been duly discriminated, or from the neglect to remove a portion of the exposed nerve Richerand, Delpech, and most of the leadino- surgeons in France, express their preference to the application of the moxa, or cautery, which thev say proves more frequently successful than the knife. This should be done directly over the apertures from which the nerves emerge, on the torehead, cheek, or chin ; and Richerand asserts that by such treatment, the pains may always be cured, or at all events rendered- supportable, G^rt^(7r. Chir. t. ii. p. 218, edit. 4.) Delpech also «iirms, that the section of the nerve very often fells, and that issues, and the repeated use of the cautery, have been attended with the greatest suc- cess. (See Precis des Mai. Chir. t. iii. p. 213.) The disfigurement of the countenance by burning applications must, however, be very objectionable; and as I think there is no positive evidence of the superiority of this method over the use of the knife, I consider what Richerand and Delpech have stated only as an instance of the extreme partiality of the French surgeons to the moxa and cauterization. Delpech confesses, however, that when the pain seems to be the consequence of a ganglion, or thickening of a part of a nerve, the excision of such part is indispensable. There can be little doubt that this would have been more proper than amputation, in Mr. Denmark's case to which I have already referred. The theories of Dr. Parry sen., who was generally inclined to refer the effects of disease to increased deter- mination of blood to the parts affected, led him to believe, that the operation of cutting the nerve as perfomied by Dr. Haighton and others, did good rather by the division of the arterial branch sup- plying the affected ramification of the trigeminus nerve, than by the division of that ramification it- selL {Parry, Elements of Palhology, S^c.) There have been many exainpies of tic dou- loureux, which, after resisting all attempts to cure them, have been left to themselves, and, after a long time, spontaneously subsided. {Delpech Maladies Chir. t iii. pp. 212, 215.) This author has seen the operation of dividing the chief branches of the portio-dura, in front of tiie parotid A A