IMPOTENCE. tlie veslcula seminalis of the side corrcaponding to that on which the testis is in the abdomen, is found on microscopic examination to contain no spermatic animalcules, and observation and experience prove that the animals in whom double Cryptorclds is found, are unfruitful or barren. This only shows that if the adult's testes are truly in the abdomen, they may secrete semen as readily as when in the scrotum ; but when in the inguinal canal, or in the groin, such pressure may have been, and probably has been, exercised on the gland as to impair its secreting powers. Breeders look with great distrust on animals with undescended testes. M. Godard has written a very interesting account of this condition, which he has called cryptorcJiidie, from KpvKreiv to conceal, and opX'J testicle. This author says,in the case of a dog wolf he examined, in which both the testes were undescended, their structure was neither fibrous nor had they undergone fatty de generation: the parenchyma was grey and drier than usual, although of a natural consistence; in size the gland was a third smaller than usual. The semen contained no traces of seminal animalcules, but simply epithelial cells. M. Godard further ob- serves that, in the case of a man with undescended testicles whom he examined after death, the sec- tion of the testes presented no peculiarity. The glandular parenchyma was of the ordinary colour the canals were healthy and pervious ; the liquid which was pressed from them contained epithelial cells, blood, and fatty globules ; the vasa defe- rentia contained a liquid composed of fatty globules of variable diameters; no animalcules but epi thelial cells were present. Although he personally examined the seminal secretion of many living men who had both testes in the abdomen, his con- clusion was that in the cryptorchis no seminal animalcules are ever found in the secretion, and he concludes that " men whose two testicles are arrested in their evolution are sterile but not impotent; that those who have for their generative apparatus only vasa deferentia are sterile, and nearly incapable of sexual intercourse." (Comptes Rendus des Seances de la Societi de Biologic, tom. iii series 2, p. 315, 1856.) The writer's experience certainly is, that men with undescended testes have no family. I was consulted by a gen- tleman in 1861 in consequence of his wife having no children. He said he had been mar- ried some years, and his wife presented all the external attributes of a person likely to have a large family; she had consulted a celebrated phy- sician, at whose suggestion the husband had come to me. There was no suspicion at the time that the testes were absent, or even imperfectly deve- loped. However, on examination, it was impos- sible to detect any testicles in tlie scrotum, and pressure in the groin did not give him any pe- culiar pain. There was nevertheless abundant evidence that the testes existed, although un- descended. In no other respect did the patient differ from other men, and he assured nie that the sexual feeling was natural, and that he had con- nection once or twice a week, the emission bemg as abundant as he supposed it ought to be in other men. As far as my personal observations go, I look with great suspicion on the procrcative powers of any person with undescended testes. Among other causes of impotence, or rather sterility, may be mentioned the influence of her- and iruasei. In practice, we find that both one and the other considerably interfere with the circulation. Whatever does this must impair the secretion of the seminal fluid; and, in fact, we find that many persons who wear trusses complain of impaired sexual power. In the same way, sexual power is sometimes absent in the more severe cases of varicocele, but in the slighter instances it is only ini- paired. Fortunately, this kind of affection is generally only temporary; but, by taking a few precautions, permanent impotence can be avoided, and the procreative functions be sufficiently per- formed. In our discussion of the causes of impo- tence they could hardly be, however, passed by. Before leaving this branch of the subject, the reader should be reminded that all the practical results of impotence can be, and constantly are, produced by the mechanical effect of a siriciure of the urethra, in preventing the emission of semen. Impregnation is of course rendered almost im- possible by a serious stricture, as the semen, instead of being at once ejaculated, can only dribble away afterwards when all erection has disappeared. The act of connection, moreover, is often painful, the pain being generally felt during the ejaculatory act. This form of impotence is far from incurable, as proper treatment by dilata- tion and other means generally succeeds in removing the stricture. Impotence arising from a similar cause, viz., ohsiruction, is observed in sheep. The high fed and high-bred rams, from which the best breeds are obtained, become subject to a kind of stricture, arising from the deposit of calcareous matter in the urethra. The peculiar conformation of the organ in sheep conduces to this result. The glans penis of the ram consists of an oval and wrinkled swell- ing, divided horizontally at the end, looking like the head of a snake. From this glans projects a long thin appendix of a consistent character. This appendix, which shepherds call " The Worm," tapers to a point, and the canal passing through it is very small. A ram is sometimes observed to be very uneasy and apparently to be less and less able to mictu- rate. On examination, the vermiform appendage is found to be distended and hardened by an accu- mulation within the urethral canal of calcareous matter in a sabulous form. This, in many mstances, can be removed by slightly pressing and rolling the appendage between the fingers, which will at once relieve the strangury and save the animal; but frequently either the ram has to be killed or part of the " worm " to be removed. If suf- ficient is left the ram may still be able to breed ; and even if complete connection is impossible, breeders still use these mutilated animals, called i " tcazers," to excite the ewes and so spare the ^ valuable tups some fatigue. The subject is so ■ curious that it deserves tlie careful attention which Mr. Simmons, professor at the Royal Veterinary, College in London, has bestowed on it. OiesiYj/.—Carpenter, in his Comparative Phy- siology, particularises obesity as a cause of im- potence. He says, "it must be observed that, there is a certain degree of antagonism between the nutritive and the generative functions, the one set being exercised at the expense of the i other. The generative apparatus derives the ma- ' terials of its operations through the nutritive system, -