INFLAMMATION. j Unluckil}' in Sj'denliam's time, the same com- j plaints of dejjeneracy were rife. Willis thought ' the population had become scorbutic through using j sugar. Dr. George Thompson, in 1670, ascribes it I to the ale brewed from Thames water, which was so befouled by common shores, jakes and privies ; he says also that English barley is degenerate ! b. Does the type of disease vary ? This question is to be answered thus. Diseases of different type are continually arising, and have done so from the earliest times—not only the pure or essential fevers, but "inflammatory fevers " (i.e. fevers with local inflammation, or idiopathic in- flammation with fever, as we should now call it), such as the epidemic pleurisies of Lancisi, catarrhs, dysenteries, erysipelas, and puerperal fevers arising from atmospheric causes or from infection. In some seasons they are comparatively " sthenic," in others accompanied with prostration from the first, and unable to bear the smallestlowering." Space does not permit me to refer to well-known pas- sages in Hippocrates, Sydenham, and Huxham to prove this. " It is observed," says John Hunter (at some uncertain time before 1793), " by some of the ablest physicians of this daj-, that the fever called inflammatory is now not so common in this country as it was formerly represented to have been ; that it is now seldom that in fevers they are obliged to have recourse to the lancet, at least to the excess which is described by authors in former times. They are now more obliged to have re- course to cordials than evacuations, and indeed the disease called the putrid fever and sore throat are but of late date. I remember when the last was called Fothergill's sore throat, because he first published upon it, and altered the mode of prac- tice. I remember when practitioners uniformly bled in putrid fevers ; but signs of debility and want of success made them alter their prac- tice. Whether the same difference takes place in inflammation I do not know, but I suspect that it does m some degree; for I am inclined to believe that fever and inflammation are very nearly allied. • . . But I believe we have much less occasion for evacuations in inflammation than there was formerly; the lancet, therefore, in inflammation, and also purgatives, are much more laid aside." He then goes on to account for this by the fact that they lived above par, or, as we say, faster than did their predecessors. It may be granted that at times epidemic diseases are more asthenic than at others. But does evidence exist of a prevalent asthenia so fluctuating that during certain periods human beings in health, after accident, or in accidental inflammation, cannot bear a bleeding which they would have borne with benefit at another time. If this be so, what are the dates ? , If we turn to Sir T. Watson's Leclures, published 3n 184.3 (vol. ). p. 218), he says, that since about "le twnc that the virulent cholera made its first appearance amongst us (1831) continued fever has neitlier required nor borne the abstraction of blood as It did bear and require it for some years prior to that^ period. He also describes the influenza of JHo,j and 1837 as sometimes requiring bleeding, tnoiigh the persons suffering bore bleeding exceed- ingly ill." Robert Ferguson, writing in 1839 (oi>. cu. p. 1.53), whilst eulogising blood-letting, general or local, as the most generally useful remedy in puerperal fever, declares that large bleeding has [61] not been borne during the last twelve years. This would fix 1827 as the end of a phlogistic and beginnmg of an asthenic period. Again, in 181.9 we find Armstrong declaring that " the'evacuant IS succeeding to the stimulant treatment in the early stage of idiopathic fevers." Thus it would seem that a phlogistic diathesis existed in 1819, and lasted till 1827, in London. Dr. Stokes says that " essential and local disease was of a sthenic type in Dublin from 1822 to 1828." The " change of type " at Edinburgh has been recorded by a most venerated authority. Dr. Christison, whose experience ranges over the period which is the subject of dispute {EdMmrgh Med. Joiirn. vol. iii. 1858, p. 580.) He became resident medical ofl^cer in the Infirmary in 1817, at which time an epidemic of fever was commencing ; "and within a few months blood-letting, which had been brought into vogue by the teaching and example of Dr. Gregory, attained its highest reputation and widest range in the case of diseases at large." To the success of blood-letting in the treatment of this fever " may be traced the un- reasoned adoption of it as a principal remedy for many years afterwards in most fevers and inflamma- tion." In 1826 and 1827 the same fever occurred, and was treated the same. (This fever corresponds to the Synochft, or inflammatory fever, now called relapsing.") « But in 1834," says Prof. Chris- tison, "I became satisfied that a change had taken place in the constitutional character of our fevers." Speaking of 1848-49, he savs, " The change in the constitution of our fever had begun twelve years sooner, and was perfected in the epi- demic of 1843-44; "i.e. the inflammatory fever passed into, or was replaced by, typhus or typhoid. With regard to the eruptive fevers, he shows that measles, after a very low typhoid form from 1809 to 1817, put on a true sthenic type ; having "the per- fect tolerance of blood-letti.ig and other antiphlo- gistic remedies," which marked the epidemic 1 Jfo ''f'een years preceding 1858 that sthenic condition had vanished. The same fluctuation occurred in scarlatina at the same dates and the same change of type, according to this distinguished Professor, occurred in pneumonia and other acute inflammations. Francis Adams of Banchory, ,n his translation of Hippocrates (AW Syd. Soc.,so\ 1. p. 307), gives a similar account of the date of change in practice. Again, there is evidence that a stimulatiiicr regimen in some fevers prevailed during the earlier part of this century—say from Hunter's time (vide «,p-a) up to 1815. For instance. Mackintosh (1836) says, with the greatest contempt of Uuder- vvood who in his work on Diseases of Children (J/84, reprinted in many editions, down to L'i'^O') speaks of scarlet fever as a disease of debility "thit he did not live long enough to profit by modern pathfj^ogy. He, too, quotes Dr. James Hamilton (J!>!.:() ns speaking ot a schoolmaster who gave wine and brandy largely to his scholars in scarla- tina. "Poor boys!" says Mackintosh, who always bled in scarlet fever, and "never had occasion to regret it! " There is thus clear evi- dence of change in the type of some epidemics, with corresponding evidence of a conservative practico in fevers from O. Fothergill to Gregory, and of a bleeding practice from Gregory to 1830, c. But that a change in opinion has occurred is clear ; for it was during these years, 1817 30,