736 THYROID GLAND, DISEASES OF, to submit to venesection at least every month, whereby he was rendered quite emaciated. [Enlargement of the thyroid gland is found associated with an assemblage of symptoms de- scribed by Dr. Stokes (^Diaeases of ilie Heart and Aorta, 1854) and by Dr. Begbie {Contributions to Practical Medicine, 18C2), in which the vascular system, especially of the head find neck, appears to be morbidly excited ; the eyeballs become preter- naturally prominent, and the general system anasmic and debilitated. In this affection the pulse is quickened, and the pulsations of the carotids and of the thyroid arteries are greatly imreased both to the touch and sight, accompanied by a Iruit de sonjflet on applying the stethoscope. The various terms of anaemic exophthalmos, goitre exoplilhalmique, exophthalmic bronchocele, have been applied to this complaint. As the thyroid gland is only one of the organs aifected in this peculiar state of the vascular sj'stem, it will be evident that the treatment required must differ from that of ordinary bronchocele. Remedies directed to the improvement of the general health, and cal- culated to influence the attendant symptoms of anasmia, of vascular excitement, and of imperfect innervation as depending upon imperfect function of the vaso motor system of nerves, will be most likely to succeed in relieving and even in restoring the patient's health. Such are the preparations of steel, quinine, and other tonics, combined with administration of digitalis, and various anodyne medicines.] Treatment of Bronchocele, That certain localities, perhaps not yet correctly understood, contribute to the origin of this dis- ease, is well proved by a fact stated by Alibert, viz. that change of air has more effect on the com- plaint than medicines, as he has known many^ Swiss ladies who came to Paris with bronchoceles, in whom the tumor subsided after they had resided some time in that city. {Nosol. nai. t. i. p. 473.) A blister, kept open, has put a stop to the growth of the tumor; but this method is not much followed at present, as better plans of treat- ment have been discovered. Many years ago the favourite mode of curing bronchocele con- sisted in giving internally burnt sponge, and occa- sionally a calomel purge, at the same time that frictions were made upon the tumor itself. The efficacy of burnt sponge was thought to be greatest when exhibited in the form of a lo- zenge, composed of ten grains of this substance, ten of burnt cork, and the same quantity of pu- mice stone. These powders were made into the proper form with a little syrup, and the lozenge was then put under the tongue and allowed to dissolve. To the latter circumstance much im- portance was attached. Some practitioners gave a scruple of burnt sponge alone, thrice every day; wliile others added a grain of calomel to each dose. A purge of calomel was ordered about once a week, or fortnight, as long as the patient per- severed in the use of the calcined sponge ; but, when mercury was combined with each dose of this medicine, no occasional purgative was deemed icquisite. External means were supposed to assist the above internal remedies, such as frequently rubbing the swelling with a dry towel, bathing the part ">vithcold water; rubbing the tumor two or three times a day with the liq. ammon. acct. or the camphor liniment. " In the treatment of bronchocele," says Mr, A. Burns, "repeated topical detraction of blood from the tumor is highly beneficial. Electricity also has sometimes a marked effect; but there is no remedy which I would more strongly advise than regular and long-continued friction over the tumor. By perseverance in this plan, a broncho- cele, treated in London, was materially reduced in the course of six weeks. Its good effects I have likewise witnessed myself ; and it is a remedy highly recommended by Girard, in his Traite dcs Loupes." Mr. A. Burns recommends the friction to be made with flannel, covered with hair- powder, and the part to be rubbed, at least three times a day, for twenty minutes. The virtues of burnt sponge, in the cure of cer- tain forms of bronchocele, are now ascertained to be owing to the iodine which it contains. Iodine was discovered in 1813 by Courtois, manufacturer of saltpetre at Paris ; but six years elapsed before it was tried as a medicine. From the first me- moir of Dr. Coindet, addressed in 1820 to the Helvetian Society of Natural Sciences, it appears, that, as he was searching for a formula in the work of Cadet de Gassicourt, he found, that Russell had recommended the ashes of the fucus vesiculosus, or bladder wrack, under the name of iEthiops vegetabilis, for the cure of bronchocele ; and he was led from analogy, between this sub- stance and burnt sponge, so long celebrated for its efficacy in the treatment of bronchocele, to sus- pect that iodine was the active principle of both. " The great and unequalled success which resulted from its use in the treatment of bronchocele, at once indicated the power of iodine as a therapeutic agent, and encouraged Dr. Coindet to pursue his researches in rendering it an efficient article of the materia medica ; and about the close of the same year, when Dr. Coindet had employed iodine in treating goitre for six months at least, his conjec- ture was confirmed by the discovery which Dr. Fyfe, of Edinburgh, made, that this substance was actu- ally contained in the ashes of the burnt sponge, &c. " It has been generally understood among the profession, that the hiippy conjecture which in- troduced iodine into medical treatment, originated with Dr. Coindet, of Geneva; yet we find that his claim to this honour is disputed by one of his countrymen. Dr. J. C. Straub, of Hofwyl, in the Canton of Berne. " Dr. Straub, whose communication is found in Professor Meisner's Physical Intelligence of the General Helvetian Society for 1820, states, that, before the discovery of iodine, attempts liad been made to compound a substitute for burnt sponge, but without success ; and that this failure, and his observation of the similarity of smell be- tween iodine, burnt sponge, and other marine productions, led him to suspect the existence of iodine, or its salts, in these substances, and that its absence in the artificial compounds was the cau'^c of failure in these experiments. This con- jecture, which appears to have been made pre- viously to 1819, led Dr. Straub to examine the real burnt sponge; and he informs us, that, though his time did not permit him to ascertain exact quantities, yet he obtained from 1^ oz. of burnt sponge as much iodine as to render his conjecture