009- VAGINA AND PERIN.EUM, RUPTURE GR LACERATION GF. liability is especially great in lasei of contraction after amputation of tiie neck. Lefort citt's, how- ever, several instances where death followed the evacuation by puncture. Some have advised puncturing by the rectum in preference, ,ind even puncture of the uterus above the symphysis pubis has been recommended. The experience of puncture by the rectum is not so favourable as to show any superiority over open- ing by the vagina. It is an imperfect operation, for the establishment of a vaginal canal would still be indicated, when relief from hasmatometra had been obtained. In cases where opening up the natural route is impracticable or too hazardous, it may be resorted to as a temporary expedient. Fatal peritonitis followed in cases treated in this way by Antoine Dubois and Dujiuytren. Dr. Gldham (Gut/'s Reports, 1857) reports two cases in which puncture per rectum was practised. In one there was congenital absence of vagina; the OS uteri was felt through the rectum; the trocar was made to pierce at this point ; the operation was repeated on four occasions; at last the opening continued patent, and menstruation took place by the rectum. In the other case, the vagina was closed by dense cicatrix ; the os uteri was felt by rectum, and was punctured; relief followed. A third case at Guy's is reported by Dr. Hicks {Med. Times and Gaz., 1861) ; here there was ab- sence of vagina : puncture by rectum was followed by relief, and as far as the report goes, there was subsequent araenorrhoea. In striking for the os uteri by the vagina, it is very possible to pierce the rectum behind the cer- vix. In such a case menstruation has thencefor- ward occurred per rectum. The time selected for the operation should be remote from the menstrual epochs; during the epoch the uterus is more apt to resent interference.] Hubert Barnes. Morgagni, tie Sedibus et Caus. Morb. 1761. He- benstreit, De Uteri Concretione Morb. 18C1. Siehold, Handb. (i. Frauenzimmcrkrankb. 1821. Kitian, De perf. uleri gravidi atresia, 1831. F. J. Nmgele, Wogostocia e cong;!utionatione in uteri externo, 1835. hir B. Brodie, Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xxvi'. [Meissner, Fraueuzimmerkrankh. 1842. Debrou, Gazette m^di- cale, 1851. Kiwisch, Klin. Vortr. 1854. Seyfert, an Haematometra, Vierteljahrscb. f. prakt. He'ilk. 1853. .beAu.'ei<zer, Nnrbige Verwachsunff des Muttermun- des, Monctsschr. f. Geburtsk. 1855. Scmizoni, Bei- trage z. Geburtsk. 1654, and Diseases of Women, 1858. Birnhaum, Deutsche Klinik, 1857. C. Braun, Lebrb. d. Geburtsk. 1857. Siebold, Zur VerklebunEr des Muttermundes, Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk. 1859. Kiisc- maul, Von dem Mangel, der Verkiiramerung- und Verdopphing der Gebarmutter, 1859. Lcfort, Des Vicf s de Conformation de l'Ut(;rus et du Vagin, 1863. Klob, Pathologiscbe Anatomic der weibliclien Sexual- orgaue, 1854. A. Pue'Jt, De I'atr^sie des Voies g^n;- tales de la Femme, 18';4 ; this work contains a full list of references. Bernutz et Goupit. Montrou A. Fallen, St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journ. 1870 Uevnig, Zeitschr. f. med. Chir. u. Geburtsk. 1866. TKc/(tte«, Three cases, in Brit, and For. Med.-Chir Rev. 1867. Boyer.J [VAGINA AND PERIN^EUM, RUPTURE OR LACERATION OF.—Laceration of the female perina;umand vagina in parturition is of not very unfreqnent occurrence. Of its causes, and of the most i ftectual modes of preventing it, it is un- necessary to speak in a surgical dictionary ; we shall, therefore, only refer here to the surgical means by which the injury may be repaired, and which, since the last edition of this work was pub- lished, have been brought to a high degree of per- fection. These lacerations vary greatly in extent, from a slight tear at the fourchette to a laceration of the whole length of the perinaaum and sphincter muscle into the rectum, and sometimes of the recto-vaginal septum for an inch or more in the upward direc- tion. It will be convenient for practical purposes to divide perineal ruptures into: I. Rupture of the. perinajum, varying in extent, but not involving the sphincter ani muscle. 2. Rupture in which the sphincter ani is also torn through. 3. Rupture in which not only the perineeum and sphincter, but the recto-vaginal septum also, are involved ; and 4, the very rare case of " central rupture," in whicli the fratal head is forced through the perina;um, leaving its anterior and posterior margins uninjured. Such a division is practically useful, as in each case some modification in the operative procedure be- comes necessary. The inconvenience suffered by the patient from a laceration of the perinaum depends, of course on its extent. A slight tear, or one not more than' half or three-quarters of an inch in extent, is not of any material importance. When, however, the whole length of the perinaeum down to the sphinc- ter ani, is torn through, the loss of support to the pelvic floor is sensibly felt, and a feeling of weakness, of weight, and of bearing down is com- plained of. The absence of the perin£Eum predis- poses, also, to dilatation and prolapse of the posterior wall of the vagina with the rectum— rectocele—or of the anterior wall with the bladder —cystocele—or even of the uterus itself. When the sphincter ani is torn through, the inconvenience is greatly increased, as, in ad- dition to the loss of support, there is inability, partial or complete, to control the passage of the' fjeces, which, when fluid, will almost always es- cape involuntarily, though, when solid, they may be retained tolerably well by the fibres of the in- ternal sphincter. In the more serious case, where both sphincters and the recto-vaginal septum are involved, iill fsecal matters, whether solid or fluid, as soon as ihey reach the lower part of the rectum^ necessarily escape externally, and the patient is in a most miserable condition. In former times but little was effected by sur- gery for the reparation of these lesions. R-centK-, however, the improvements in the mode of apply- ing sutures, and the introduction of silver and other metallic wires for that purpose, have been the means of saving a large number of women from life-long misery ; and when the parts are in a healthy condition, an operation for tlie repair of tht^se lacerations may be undertaken with almost a certainty of success. The question arises whether such an operation should be practised immediately after the occur- rence of the injury, that is to say, within twenty- four or at most forty-eight hours after delivery or whether it should be delayed till the torn surfaces have healed, and the parts have been restored to a quiescent and healthy condition. The former plan is recommended by many authorities, and has the recommendation that time is saved by it and that the patient is spared the inconvenience'of a subsequent confinement to her bed for two or three weeks. Against it, however, may be urged first that in many of these cases, where the parts are not severely injured, cicatrisation may take place bv 3 M 2 ^