ASES OF. ; 500 SKIN, DISE ing to the natural system, eczema is an inflam- mation of the skin, accompanied with alteration of structure and derangement of function, its cha- racteristic signs being redness, itchiness, interstitiiil and sometimes subcutaneous thiclcening, exudation, papulation, vesiculation, and desquamation. Hence arises a division of eczema into varieties represent- ing its pathological forms, for example : e. ery- thematosum, papulosum, vesiculosum, ichorosum, pustulosum, squamosum, and certain irregular forms, namely, fissum, sclerosum, verrucosum, oede- matosum, mucosum, bullosum, and neurosum ; and a further division into varieties of distribu- tion and locality, the former being : e. universale, figuratum, diffusum, nummulare, and marginatum ; and the local varieties : e. capitis, faciei, aurium, axillarum, maraillarum, umbilicale, inguinum, pu- dendi, articulorum, manuum, pedum, &c. Eczema erythematosum is distinguished by red- ness, thickening, and hardening of the skin from serous infiltration into its tissues, itching, and suc- cessive desquamation of the cuticle in laminae or scales. Eczema papulosum represents the eruption of papulas resembling those of lichen, hence, e. lichen- osum, in association with the other signs of eczema. Eczema vesiculosum is the type of the eczema of Willan, an eruption of small, semiglobular vesicles, without much redness, but generally associated with oedema. When occurring in exposed parts of the skin, and excited by the stimulus of the sun's raj's, it constitutes e. solare. Eczema ichorosum especially distinguishes the exudative phenomenon of the disease; exudation of a viscous lymph, often in great abundance, being its characteristic feature; this form is the e. rubrum of Willan, the e. madidans of Hebra. Eczema pustulosum marks the complication of eczema with a pustular eruption, having the cha- racters of impetigo, hence the term introduced by Willan, e. impetiginodes. Eczema squamosum is a later form or stage of eczema, in which the redness, the thickening, and the induration of the skin remain, with a more or less extensive desquamation of the cuticle. The irregular forms represent certain of the phe- nomena of eczema when they occur alone, or in an exaggerated degree; thus the dry, indurated corium is apt to crack into chaps and rhagades, e. fissum; or, its induration and density may be so great as to suggest the term sclerosum; occasionally, chronic eczema presents the appearance of wai-ts, and may be only distinguishable from morbid papillary growths by its previous history and intense itch- ing, e. verrucosum; sometimes the eruption is ac- companied with considerable effusion into the subcutaneous areolar tissue, e. oadematosum.; some- times it is remarkable for a muco-purulent discharge, with little further lesion of the skin, e. mucosum ; such a discharge is apt to be formed between folds of the skin in infiints and fat persons, and is termed intertrigo. Again, eczema occasionally produces bulla in place of vesicles, e.bultosum; and is some- times remarkable for its association with neuralgia of the cutaneous nerves, e. neurosum. In manner of distribution on the surface of the skin eczema may be general (e. universale), or dis- persed in circumscribed patches (o. figuratum); it may be variously spread out upon the body or limbs (e. diffusum), or concentrated in small discs BUggestive of coin (e. nummulare); or, it may pre- sent a centrifugal form (e. marginatum), and sub- side in the centre, while it retains all its activity at the extreme border. Its local forms bring to our knowledge the fact of its selection by prefer- ence of certain regions, and its greater intensitj' in some parts of the body than in others; for example, it is common in the flexures of the joints, and be- tween folds of the skin; behind and on the ears; in the hollows of the umbilicus, axilla;, and puden- dum; on the face, the head, the legs, and forearms, the hands, and the fingers. Eczema also presents some peculiarities in its attack on infants and children (e. infantile); it is more frequently uni- versal than in the adult; it is apt to exude to a greater degree, the exudation being more frequently puriform; and, it gives rise to more extensive, more varied, and thicker crusts; hence the crusta lactea of the face and head, the eczema larvale, or por- rigo larvalis of Willan, which covers the features like a mask, and the yellow and honey-like crust produced by a purulent discharge, and termed melitagra. Psoriasis is a term applicable to the most chronic stage of eczema (the psora of the Greeks); when exudation has ceased, but admits of being revived by friction or scratching, and when the skin is thickened, condensed, hard, and itch3',and throws off a copious exfoliation of small scales; this latter character has been the means of confounding psori- asis with the lepra vulgaris of Willan, or, more correctly, alphos. Pityhiasis is also, in some instances, an ex- hausted eczema, and sometimes a chronic erythema; there is less thickening of the skin than in psori- asis, and sometimes an absence of thickening; but there is always a considerable amount of itching, and the production of an abundance of extremely fine scales, which have been compared to iriTvpov, or bran, and have been termed furfures. An ex- hausted eczema squamosum of the scalp is, by common consent, termed pityriasis. Willan and Bateman distinguish four varieties, namely, p. ca- pitis, p. rubra, p. versicolor, and p. nigra. Pitj-- riasis capitis is the typical form of the disease; p. rubra is a chronic eczema; p. versicolor is the phytosis versicolor ; and p. nigra a variety of doubtful existence. By Hebra, the term pity- riasis rubra has been applied to a rare and verj' remarkable disease, in which the cuticle exfoliates in flakes from the whole surface of the body, the dermn beneath presenting a vermilion or bright crimson colour—a state of universal dermatitis with cuticular exfoliation. LicHBN is an eruption of pimples and the type o( the " papulfe " of Willan. The pimples are the mouths of the follicles of the skin elevated by con- gestion and infiltration; they are hard and solid, are accompanied by more or less erythematous redness, by heat, and by a prickling and tingling itching more or less severe. The eruption ter- minates in furfuraceous desquamation. The chief varieties of lichen are;—L. simplex, dispersus, circumscriptus, strophulosus, urticatus, tropicus,and planus; certain secondary varieties being L. pil- aris, lividus, circinatus and gyr.stus. L. simplex may be developed in patches of some extent, of irregular figure, or distributed more or less exten- sively over the'surface; the pimples are brightly red; but, in elderly persons, and when developed on the lower extremities, they are sometimes pur- plish (1. lividus); and sometimes their perforation