1,V2 movements of the limb. He artcrwards, and died of phtliisis. JOINTS, EXCISION OF, lived five years [The parts were removed after death, and were placed by Mr. Anthony White in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. An examination of the joint shows the cotyloid cavity to be filled up by firm fibrous tissue, which at the same time biads the femur and os innominatum strongly] together, and yet permits of tolerably free motion. Five years later, in 1823, a Mr. Hewson of Dublin repeated the operation, and in 1836 it was performed by Sir Benjamin Brodie. It then re- mained in abeyance in this country till the year 1845, when it was revived bj' Mr. Fergusson, in the case of a boj', aged 14, who was gradually sinking from disease of the hip. The head of the bone was dislocated on to the dorsum of the ilium, and could be felt through the soft parts lying in that situation. Excision of the joint was attended by the most complete success. (See Med. GIdr. Trail, for 1845.) In 1858 Mr. Fergusson writes, that this patient was in good health, and with a capital limb; he believed the parts to be in a similar condition to that found in Mr. White's patient, but happily, so far as could be then judged, there was no likelihood of an early opportunity of anatomical examination being permitted. (See Practical Surgery, ed. 4. p. 466.) Mr. Fergusson was followed by Mr. Simon, Mr. Henry Smith, Mr. French, Mr. Haynes Walton, Mr. Morris of Spalding, and Mr. Cotton of Lynn, all of whom have performed the operation, and it has been since repeated by Mr. Fergusson. Within the past few years, Mr. Jones of Jersey, Mr. Erichsen, Mr. Hancock, Mr. Bowman, Mr. Partridge, Prof. Buchanan of Glasgow, Mr. Shaw, Mr. Stanley, Mr. P. C. Price, and many other surgeons, have frequently resorted to it, with more or less success. On the Continent this operation would seem to have found greater favour than in England. In 1816, Schmalz, a Saxon surgeon, did the operation for Cains, and in his wake followed Textor, who did it four times, Oppenheim, Heim,Eoux, Vogel, Vermandois, Seutin, and many others. In 1 847, M. Roux mentioned twelve cases of excision, and they were the first statistics published. {Gazette, des Hop., March 1847.) The operation is now confined chiefly to the British, German, and Ame- rican surgeons, but has not been encouraged in France. We have already adverted to the statistics of excision in the hip collected by Mr. Price, when speaking of Disease of the Hip Joint. Mr. Bar- well has gathered the particulars of 104 cases. Twelve times the operation was performed for in- jurjs and of these but one recovered; but eleven of these were gun-shot wounds, and one was a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone and descend- ing ramus of the pubes. Of the 92 cases in which the joint-disease was the cause of operation, 56 recovered, 32 died at various periods afterwards, and 4 remain luicertain. The recoveries tlierefore are 56, which is equivalent to 63 per cent. ' It must be, nevertheless, acknowledged,' Mr. Bar- well remarks, " that several of the patients, after having lived, and even walked about for some months, or even more, ultimately succumbed to ni- ternal disease, generally to tuberculosis." {Treat, on Dis. of .Joints, p. 438.) The statistics of this operation, Mr. T. Holmes says, are of little real value; nor are they, he says, of the same importance as in those excisions where the question lies between the removal of ajointand of a whole limb. "The rate of mortality is extreme- ly high ; so that out of 111 cases collected by Dr. Hodges, in which the result was known, 56 re- covered ' with more or less useful limbs,' 53 died of the combined effects of the operation and the previous disease, and in the remaining two cases amputation was performed. But it is impossible to deduce any exact conclusion from such facts as these : since, without a personal knowledge of each case, no opinion as to the probability of re- covery without operation can be formed. The average duration of treatment in those cases in which the point was noted (49 in number) was 230 days." Mr. Holmes further observes that, when the operation is once decided upon, it should not be delayed till the patient's health has given way, but should be performed at once.—System of Surgery, vol. 3. p. 816. The cases in which resection of the hip-joint is demanded, are those wherein abscess has formed, and the constitutional powers have become so much impaired by the constant drain upon the system, that a fatal result would ensue. " This is the direct consequence of the wasting and exhausting influ- ence of the long-continued discharge of pus from masses of carious or necrosed bone, too extensive or too deeply seated to be eliminated by the natural actions of the part. It is in such cases as these that conservative surgery steps in, and endeavours to save the patient's life by the re- moval of the morbid cause that keeps up the discharge which is wasting it away. The object here is simply to save life by the removal of diseased bones." (See Ericlnen, Science and Art of Surgery, ed. 3, p. 744. The same surgeon considers the femoral form of coxalgia as the most amenable to operation. It is in the severe and extreme cases of this variety of hip disease, that the upper epiphysis of the femur will be found lying in a state of caries on the dorsum ilii, in a suppurating cavity, with sinuses leading down to it. " The pelvic bones are sound ; the acetabulum is filled by fibro-plastic matter of a reparative character, though possibly slightly roughened and necrosed in one lip. The soft structures in the gluteal region are thinned and wasted ; the limb is inevitably shortened and adducted." (Op.cit.) Under the name of Necrosis of Joints, Sir Ben- jamin Brodie describes a condition, somewhat analogous to the foregoing, wherein resection, or at any rate an operation for the removal of the dis- eased bone, is a matter of the utmost importance. " Where the bones of a joint are in a state of ulceration or caries, it sometimes happens that a portion of such carious bone loses its vitality, and is separated by the usual process of exfoliation, forming what has been called a sequeslrum in the articular cavitj'. This may happen whatever the cause of the caries may be." (See Path, and Surg. Obs. ed. 5, p. 220, 1850.) Sir Benjamin Brodie considers this to be more common in scrofulous caries than in any other, on account of the lower degree of vitality belonging to the bone in such cases. He gives some striking examples of this condition in the hip, one particularly ol a lad 15 years old, who died of general hip disease, and after death a portion of dead bone was found