THYROID GLAN ), DISEASES OF. 735 But what puts tLe matter beyond a doubt is, that these wens nre common in Sumatra, where there is no snow during any part of the year." {Wat- son's Chemical Essays, vol. ii. p. 157.) The above opinion was also refuted by Fodere, who remarks that the Swiss, who reside at the bottom of the glaciers, are the least subject to the disease. Bronchoceles are also said to be unknown in Lapland. Respecting the influence of particular water in bringing on the disease. Dr. Odier gives credit to the opinion ; because it has appeared to him that distilled water prevented the increase of the tumor, and even tended to lessen its bulk. (See Manuel de Metlecine pratique, 8vo. Genev. 1811.) How- ever, that every explanation, hitherto devised of the causes of bronchocele, is quite unsatisfnctory, is fully proved by the observations of the celebrated Humboldt. Persons afflicted with bronchocele (he remarks) are met with in the lower course of the Magdalen river (from Honda to the conflii.'s of the Cauca); in the upper part of its course (between Neiva and Honda); and on the flat high country of Bogota, six thousand feet above the bed of the river. The first of these three regions is a thick forest, while the second and third present a soil destitute of vegetation ; the first and third are exceedingly damp, the second is peculiarly dry: in the second and third regions, the winds are im- petuous; in the first, the air is stagnant. To these striking differences we will add those relative to temperature. In the first and second regions, the thermometer keeps up, all the year, between 22 and 33 centigrade degrees; in the third, between 4 and 17 degrees. The waters drunk by the in- habitants of Mariquita, Honda, and Santa Fe de Bogota, where bronchoceles occur, are not those of snow; and issue from rocks of granite, freestone, and lime. The temperature of the waters of Santa Fe' and Mompox, drunk by those who have this disease, varies from nine to ten degrees. Bron- choceles are the most hideous at Mariquita, where the springs, which flow over granite are, accord- ing to my experiments, chemically more pure than those of Honda and Bogota, and where the climate is much less sultry, than upon the banks of the Magdalen river. Perhaps it may be thought, that the atony of the glandular system (?) depends less upon the absolute temperature than upon the sud- den refrigeration of the atmosphere, the difference of temperature in the night and day; but, in the Magdalen valley, where the constancy of low tro- pical regions prevails, the extent of the scale that the thermometer pervades in the course of the whole year is only a small number of degrees, &c. {Ilumlioblt, in Journ. de Physiologie, par F. Ma- gendie, t. iv. p. 116.) The same distinguished observer confirms pre- vious accounts of the variety of bronchoceles amongst the original copper-coloured natives of America and negroes. It appears, also, that in South America, bronchocele is progressively ex- tending itself from the lower provinces to the flat elevated regions of the Cordilleras ; and this, in so serious a degree, that in lfi23 the subject was adverted to in a report made to Congress by M. Restreppo, one of the Colombian ministers. An observation, lately made by an intelligent writer, would lead one to conclude, that cretinism depends upon malformation of the head, Spcak- ing of goitre, as it appears among tlie inhabitants of the valley of Maurienne, Baron Larrey informs us, that, in many of these people, with this fright- ful deformity is joined that of the cranium, of which the smallness and excessive thickness are especially remarkable. (Mem. de Chir. milit. t. i. p. 123.) Pressor is inclined to consider the bronchocele as a kind of dropsy of the thj^roid gland, similar to the dropsy of the ovary; and he mentions, that Dr. Hunter dissected one thyroid gland, which had been considerably enlarged, and contained many cysts filled with water. Dr. Baillie re- marks, that when a section is made of the thyroid gland affected with this disease, the part is found to consist of a number of cells containing a trans- parent viscid fluid. In all probabilit}"-, the ordinary bronchocele is entirely a local disease, patients usually finding themselves, in other respects, perfectly well. The tumor itself frequently occasions no particular in- convenience, and is only a deformity. There is no malignancy in the disease, and the swelling is not prone to inflame or suppurate, though, as Dr. Hunter remarks, abscesses do occasionally form in it. The pressure of a large bronchocele may not only greatly aflflict the patient, by rendering res- piration difficult, but actually cause death by suffo- cation. (See Ohs. sur un Goitre vohimineux, comprimant la Trachie-artere, par L. Winslow, in Bulletin de VAtMnee de Med., etc. " Some per- sons, as Alibert remarks, have the disease all their lives, without suffering any inconvenience from it; some experience a suflTocating oppression of the breathing; and in others there is an impediment in^ the circulation, and a tendency to apoplexy, arising from the strangulation which afflicts them." {Nosol. nat. t. i. p. 466.) Dr. Hunter says, that the bronchocele frequently appears two or three years before or after the commencement of men- struation, and that it sometimes spontaneously disappears, when this evacuation goes on in a regular manner. Mr. A. Burns affirms the same thing. Besides the forms of goitre already noticed, there is another sometimes termed ajieurismaiic, and consisting of an extraordinary development of the thyroid arteries and their branches. Everv point of the tumor has a strong pulsation, not however, like that of an aneurism, but giving a sensation as if the blood vvere flowing very rapidly into numerous vessels, with an obscure buzzing noisp, or tremulous murmur, which is more dis- tinct oyer the thyroid trunks. A case of this description was once shown to me by Mr. Pilcher. In two cases recorded by Dr. Sacchi, the tumors had existed many years, and begun during tlie efi"orts of parturition. Dr. Parry remarked a frequent coincidence, either as cause or effect, between enlargement of the thyroid gland, and cardiac diseases. '{Elements of Pathology, cj-o. p. Ifil.) And another modem writer mentions that he has lately seen throe cases of this complication. {Mcdico-Chir. Journ. vol. i. p. Hil.) A case is detailed by Flajnni" where the disease was accompanied with extra- ordinary palpitations of the heart. {See Colleziono d''Osservaxinni, etc., di Chirurgia, t. iii. p. 270.) In the instance here referred to, there was great irrcguhirity of the pulse; and tlie oppression of tlio breathing was such, that the patient was obliged