•wlietlier it be a wliolly abnormal ingredient, or a iiomial Olio in excess—is the m.ileries morhi, and that it is localised in the affected joints, and thnt the intensitj' of the local infliimmations is a measure of the quantity of poison collected in the affected parts, he determined to attack the disease where it showed itself, and to attempt the elimina- tion of the materies morbi. " I ordered blisters,'' he says, " varying in width, but of considerable size, to be applied around each limb and in close proxi- mity to the parts inflamed, and I hoped to relieve the affected joints, partly on the principle of deri- vation, but viainly and really by affordinij through the serous discharge from the blistered surface a ready means of exit for the animal poison. Arm- lets, wristlets, thighlets, and leglets, and even fingerlets, were applied near to, but not upon, every joint inflamed, at the very height of the inflammatory stage, when the local pains were the most severe and the constitutional disturbance the grcatesty " The results in rapid relief of the pains, quick convalescence, and freedom from cardiac disease, were liiglily satisfactory." The blisters must be allowed to draw freely, and the serous discliarge be encouraged b}- linseed poultices. Dr. Davies believes that the blisters eliminate acid to such a degree that any administration of alkalis is not only useless but injurious ; nay, that it is deceptive, and leads to false security ; that the urine becomes neutral or alkaline, and the serum regains its powsr of holding fibrine in solution, and of taking up any which may have been deposited on the heart's valves ; and that the temperature rapidly falls under the blister treatment. Dr. Davies believes that the relief from rheumatic pain, and the assurance of safety from heart disease, will enable any patient to bear the pain of blisters without a murmur. But the Coryphfeus of Counter-irritants is Mr. Fiirneaux Jordan, who has embodied his ideas in a work on the Trealment of Sitri/icai Infkimmalions hij a New Method (Lend. 1870). Mr. Jordan stai-ts with the assumption "that tlie inflammatory process is one, in whatever part, and under what- ever circumstances, it may appear. Its causes, modes of progress, degrees of activity and results, are many and various, but the process is the same ; the phenomena in the main are also the same ; and the same also are the changes in the tissue elements as discovered by the microscope. Inflammation, then, being one disease, why should we not have one treatment? Having discovered the best reme- dies in some inflammations, why not use them in ail ? If a slight mustard poultice will cure a slight bronchitis, will not a stronger counter-irritant be the best remedy for a severer bronchitis? More than this, if one inflammation is more quickly than by any other means subdued by counter-irritation, why not try the same remedy in other inflamma- tions ? Why not try whether a mustard plaister or other counter-irritant around an abscess or a phagedicna will not with equal superiority control their progress ?" Mr. Jordan having argued that It 13 hopeless to attempt to extinguish inflamma- ti.)ii by any single drug or internal remedy, says that there are certain " phenomena which are so regular that thej- may be said to be conditions essential to its existence," and that the removal of any essential, condition must remove the inflamma- tion. Of the principal conditions necessary for the " prosperous beginning and progress of an in- INFLAMMATION. flammation," he enumerates these, viz—First increased space,—room for swelling, for "vascular distention, for the multiplication of tissue germs or development of an exudation. This condition is opposed by pressure. " If it were possible to keep any part of the body within its physiological pre- cincts, it could not inflame. If by pressure we could in some degree restore an inflamed part to the area of health, the inflammation would be re- moved to a proportionate degree." A second "essential condition of inflammation," he continues, "is increased quantity of blood or 'ministering' fluid. No part of the body can be inflamed if the heaUh-qiiantity only of blood be present." "Local diminution (general loss of blood means loss of repairing power) can be effected by pressure and elevation where practicable." Small local deple- tions, and pressure upon, or occlusion of the feed- ing artery, act upon the same principle. Thirdly, the removal of the cause is expedient when possi- ble ; but (says Mr. Jordan) the cause may be unknown or irremovable, and then the treatment must be based on other grounds; in many cases the cause "is transitory, and the result alone needs consideration." Fourthly, movement must be prohibited ; and lastly and chiefly, " where in- flammation prospers there is no other inflammation present. If a second inflammation—say an abscess —arifes, the first shrinks or disappears. There is no inflammation in which this condition may not be removed by establishing another and counter- inflammation. But the counter-inflammation must be strictly a second, and never an aggravation of the first inflammation, as counter-irritation over the thin parietes of the cranium, or thorax, or abdomen, or knee-joint, or subcutaneous abscess may readily be, if deeply-acting irritants are used." The conclusion from these premises is that counter- irritation in every inflaiimation, and pressure in every accessible inflammation, with elevation, rest - and removal of cause, are the essential remedies' but that the chiefest of these is counter-irritation' Nay, more, he despises "drugs" (except that he gives iron "in all, or nearly all, inflammatory diseases "), and refers the beneficial action of pur- gatives to the principle of counter-irritation But counter-irritation should be effected on a cleir and definite system. " It should be established over the next or another, or an independent vascular inmk or territory:' For instance, in "i/m-cranial inflammation counter-irritation should be excited over the branches of the external carotid. The ao-ents employed may be superficial or deep. Of the super- ficial, Mr. Jordan generally uses iodine paint or linimeMt, which is convenient from the circumstance, that It can be made of any strength desired • the solution of nitrate of silver (2 drachms to the ounce with 3 or 4 drops of strong nitric acid), and the ucetuni lyllm made with glacial acid. Pressure is especially adapted to the chronic and the later stages of inflammation. Shot mattresses are con- venient modes of applying it. Acting on the foregoing data, Mr. Jordan has constructed a kind of anatomical system for the definite use of counter- irritants in inflammation of various organs. Take the case first of abscess and bubo. A circular zone (or a horseshoe if more convenient) is to be painted with one of the liquid counter-irritants around the focus of inflammation—not upon it, l)ut upon the sound skin. The zone must be broader or narrower according to the strength of the application '• and it