n B 2 when the whalebone is drawn out of the catheter by grasping the liandle, the strands of Jiair are made to project by their extremities being ap- proximated, and thus a "sweeper/' similar in appearance to that used for chimneys, is produced which is very useful and well adapted to catch in its folds or loops any sharp body with which it may meet. Fish-hooks have on several occasions got access into the interior of the CBsophagus, and they have exercised the ingenuity of the surgeon to get rid of them. It is an old manoeuvre, though one fre- quently claimed as original in later times, to pass the line attached to the hook through a leaden bullet, which being allowed to run down over the hook,_ helped by its weight to remove the hook from its attachment and to guard its point when being withdrawn. The extraction of such un- pleasant bodies may also be accomplished by pas- sing the line through a hollow tube, which on being introduced into the throat over the line displaces and guards the hook as it is being re- moved. Secondly. Foreign bodies, such as alimentary substances, which can do no harm when swallowed, and other objects, it may be, which have passed far down and cannot be extracted, have occasionally to be pushed onwards in order to remove them from the oesophagus. Swallowing thick fluids, such as soup, arrowroot, or dry bread, or pulpy fruits, such as an inverted fig or prune, will sometimes remove a small and pointed bod)', but such measures can- not be used when the obstruction is great, as then they v,-il] only serve to aggravate matters. Probangs having a piece of sponge attached to their extremity, which is either saturated before introduction with white of egg, or butter, or oil, or glycerine, or, being passed in a dry state beyond the offending body, are then made to expand by the introduction of water into the throat, will often succeed either in pushing onwards, or entangling and withdrawing, the obstruction. Probangs with ivory balls are also employed to push the foreign body into the stomach. ' When the substance impacted is of a soft and easily disintegrated character, such as a potato, and is situated high up, Dupuytren's plan of crushing it by the pressure of the hand from without may succeed in free- ing the canal of obstruction. If hard irritating bodies have been either accidentally or intentionally passed downwards, their passage along the intes- tinal canal should be assisted by the administration of mucilaginous fluids, and probably a dose of castor oil. Dr. Hall, of Baltimore, proposes to soften, and so facilitate the removal of, bones impacted in the (Esophagus by the administration of the mineral acids in small and frequent doses tlirough a tube. He says he has thus succeeded in his object, Thirdhj. When a foreign body can neither be extracted nor pushed onwards, or when it is of such a nature that it is undesirable to attempt the latter procedure, the surgeon is called upon to remove it by operation. Doubtless a foreign body left to itself may iiccasionally, in consequence of suppuration becoming established, get loose and so come up or pnss down without extraneous aid, but the risk attending such a process is very great, as Begin has well shown, and should not be voluntarily en- countered. Violent inflammation abscess, slough- and even gangrene may result from the (ESOPHAGUS. 371 continued lodgment of hard irregular bodies in the esophagus and hus perforation of the canal may follow, and fatal hemorrhage, disease of the spinal cord effusion into the air passages or chest mav be produced. Death may be caused by the irritation and sometimes symptoms which before the em- ployment of auscultation were taken to indicate phthisis pulmonalis,—emaciation,— hacking cough —vomiting of pus and blood—ai-ose from the con- tinued impaction of such bodies. Needles and such like bodies may pass through the walls of the (Esophagus or intestine, after being swallowed, and travel a long way before finally escaping by the surface, which they do by the formation of an abscess. During such transit they may cause little or no inconvenience, but they have likewise been known to pierce important organs, such as the heart and liver, to work their way into the great blood-vessels and air passages, and either produce serious effects at once or set up dangerous and destructive inflammation. It becomes then a proper and anxious question when the operation of (Esophagotomy should be performed.] CESOJ-HAGOTOJIY. [This operation is occasionally undertaken not merely in order to remove a foreign body, but also to cure a stricture of the (Esophagus, or to introduce food into the stomach. In the case of the impaction of foreign bodies, the counsel of Bell and Boyer was at one time universally followed, of not operat- ing unless the foreign body to be removed could be felt in the neck and used as a guide, but this limi- tation is 110 longer admitted, and the necessity for removal being recognised, and the impossibility of attaining this by any less serious means apparent, then the operation is performed. If a foreign body be impacted in the throat whose continued presence IS calculated to be injurious, and if fair trials have been made for its removal, then oasophagotomv should be at once performed. It should not be delayed and only undertaken as a last resource but performed before mischief has been done It IS not a very difficult or dangerous operation,' but requires care, and a clear knowledge oftheanatomv of the region to be cut in. If the foreign body to be removed can be felt from the outside, or accurately determined by the mouth, then its position determines the point of operation; but if no such adjudicating circumstance be present, then we operate in the space between the sterno-mastoid and the windpipe on the left side, and between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries as upper and lower boundaries.] Though cesophagotomy was cursorily mentioned by Verduc in his " Pathologie Chirurgicale" Guattani, formerly a distinguished surgeon at Rome, published the first valuable observations on the subject. (y1/cm. de CAcad. de Chir. t. iii, -Itn.) He proved by experiments tluit the ope- ration might be safely performed upon docs which recovered after it very well, and he de- monstrated on the dead body that it was equally practicable on the human subjoct. Nay, what is still more to the point, ho brought forward two instances in which the practice had been success- fully adopted on living patients. "In Maj-, 1738, Goursauld, n surgeon at Coussat-Bonneval,' in Limousin, was called to a man in whose (bso- pnagus a bone was lodged, an inch long and half an inch broad. Various ineffectual endeavours