PREFACE. erasures must have amounted to at least another 200 pages. These 700 pacres of new matter distributed throughout the work have been apportioned as follows —249 have been allotted to entirely new articles, that is, to articles not found at all in folder editions of Cooper; 280 more have been consumed by articles which, although contained in previous editions, required to be written cU novo; the remaining 171 pages have been expended on the new matter necessarily introduced by the reviser in almost every article. In the preface to the First Volume it is stated that," To the Second Volume, which Jl appear as speedily as possible, will be added an Appendix,_m which wiU be embodied the latest discoveries and improvements. Dunn the progress of the Second Volume, however, it has been found hat the gr at aciL! of introducing,'either by the insertion of original articles, or under vLus headings, " the latest discoveries and improvements," have altogether ^ sededtheVecessity of adding an Appendix for the present, mdeed for a few years the material will be hardly sufficient for the purpose. It would have been a pleasing duty to the Editor to have expressed his high appreciation of the way in which each contributor had Perfo-jd his 2ointL task- b-ut the number of his highly esteemed coadjutors, and hTrl pace of a preface, compel him to restrict himself to expressmg o them collectively his admiration of their talents, and to acknowledging • his oblation to them for their invaluable services in the arduous nnde taHng now drawn to its close. The list of the contributors given m undertaking necessarily prospective and imperfect; t^::::^:!!^^^ .r wHch each became responsible can now be recorded with precision, and are here transcribed :- Acton, Wixliam Adams, John Adams, William Ancell, Henet . BiDEB, Dr. C. . Baenes, De. Robert BiEKBTT, John . Blbnkins, G-. Cooke, "Weeden . CooPEE, G-. Lewis Coopee, White . CoTOSON, William Deuitt, De. Roheet Eeichsen, John , Invpotence. ■ ■ Head, injuries of. „ . . Orthopedic Surgery; Talipes; Spme, curvatures of Fatuigy of Blood ; Hemorrhagic matkes.;^^'''' Hyperemia; Hydrcemia ; Hypertnos^; Plethora. Ophthalmic Surgery; Ophthalmoscope; Vi^n . 7 T>,.or,nnnr>i • Transfusion uie- Phlegmasia Bolcns; Pregnancy , ^'<' J rine Diseases; Uterine Sound and Speculum. Tumors. Gunshot Wounds. Tongue, diseases of; Psoas Abscess; Biography of Samuel Cooper. , Cataract. . Lithotomy; Lithoirity. Abscess; Erysipelas; Fevers; Gramdations; Hospital ■ GangrcJ; Inflammation; Suppuratxon; Momfl- cation. , Aneurism,