523 RECTUM, DISEASES OF. Trails, and Ohserv, vol. viii. No. 10'.) IIow- \ er, I should iipprehend that, in the circumstance .1 gangrene, the measures best calculated for stop- iiig its course, detaciiing tlie sloughs, and keeping .) the patient's strength, must alwaj's be more udfut than such an operation. On the other hand, we liave high authority for not imitating the plan above specified, and for trying to accomplish the reduction with less delay. The examples attended witli difficulty of reduction, and hazard of gangrene, are noticed by Dupuytren. "Sometimes (he observes) the swelling of the parts is so great, and the sphincter so much in- verted, that it strangulates the bowel, and aid is urgently required. The displaced organ is then of twice or thrice its proper size ; assumes a red jiurplish colour, with an appearance of ecchymosis, and is sometimes in danger of sloughing to a greater or lesser extent. Under such circumstances, the reduction should be immediately performed in tiie following way :—The patient should lie on his belly, with the pelvis raised up by one or two pillows under it, so that the anus may be the high- est part of the trunk. The tumor having been everywhere covered with wet cloths, and a com- press laid over the centre of its outer end, gentle pressure is to be made on its base, in order to lessen its size; and then it is to be very gradually pushed towards the interior. Thus, the reduction com- mences with the part last protruded." {Dupuytren, Cli7t. Chir. t. i. p. 159.) Scarifications and leeches he thinks objectionable. Undoubtedly, the re- moval of the part from its constricted state, by a prompt reduction of it, seems here as manifestly called for as in a case of hernia; and, at all events, it is only when this is not immediately practicable, that other expedients are indicated. [We have already stated that strangulation, or even com- pression, to any serious extent, though common in hiemorrhoidal cases, is extremely rare in cases of true prolapsus.] Tlie reduction having been effected, the fore- finger should be passed up the rectum to ascertain that no intussusception exists above the sphincter. The bowel is then to be kept in its place by quie- tude and the recumbent posture ; and, if there be a great tendency to relapse, it will be proper to apply to the fundament a piece of soft sponge, wetted with cold water, and supported with the T bandage. But if such means should not answer, and an habitual prolapsus ani recur, which is not unfrequent when the disease has been neglected, or its causes have long remained unremoved, some other apparatus like that described by Mr. Gooch, may be needed. {Chir. Worlcs, vol. ii. p. 150. ed. 1792.) Trusses for prolapsus of the rcctum may be procured. Others have used perforated balls of ivory. Callisen found the introduction of a piece of sponge within the rectum, fastened to a silver probe, give effectual support. In France, and also in other countries, instruments made of clastic gum have sometimes been employed. {Richerand, Nosoyr. Chir. t. iii. p. 441. ed. 4.) On account of the elasticity, and unirritating quality of this sub- stance, I conceive it is better calculated than any other material for the construction of such instru- ments. It cannot be denied, however, that all foreign bodies in the rectum create serious annoy- ance. In the female sex, a vaginal pessary, rather prominent behind, will usually hinder the recur- rence of the prolapsus. The horizontal posture should be observed as much as possible, and when the patient has a motion, a bed-pan should be placed under him. Astringent injections are to be employed daily. Sir Benjamin Brodie speaks also in favour of a course of Ward's paste. (See Lond. Med. Gax. for 1834,1835, p. 840'.) Of the latter practice I cannot speak from experience, never having had confidence enough in it to give it a trial, which may not, I confess, be a fair way of deciding. After the reduction of a prolapsus ani, the dis- position which gave rise to the protrusion generally still continues; and therefore, as Dupuytren ob- serves, the reduction is only to be regarded as a palliative, and, in some cases, as a means of pre- venting dangerous consequences; but never as a mode of accomplishing a permanent cure. Cold bathing and cold washes have been tried for the latter purpose, on the principle of strengthening the sphincter, so that the descent of the bowel may be opposed. But this method requires long perse- verance, and is so disagreeable to some patients that it is soon given up. Astringent lotions and compression with a sponge and T bandage, sup- positories, which Dupuytren admits do occasionally succeed in children, after a certain time, frequently fail, and especially in adults and old persons. {Climqite Chir. t. i. p. 160.) In such cases, re- course must be had to the operation first practised by He}', or the modification of it adopted by Du- puytren. The late Mr. Hey published some highly inter- esting remarks on the cure of the procidentia ani in adults. In one gentleman, the disease took place whenever he had a stool, and continued for some hours, the gut gradually retiring, and at last disappearing, until he had occasion to go to the privy again. After each stool, he used to place himself in a chair, and obtain a little relief by making pressure on the prolapsed part; and he then was in the habit of going to bed, where the intes- tine by degrees regained its natural situation. While the bowel was down, there was a copious discharge from it of a thin mucous fluid, blended with blood. When the part was up, the anus was constantly surrounded by a thin, pendulous flap of integuments, generally hanging down to the extent of three-fourths of an inch. Around the anus there were also several soft tubercles of a bluish colour, situated at the basis, and at the inner part of the pendulous flap. These were evidently formed by the extremity of the rectum. The pa- tient, previously to the establishment of these habitual attacks of prolapsus ani, had been afllicted for several years with pain after each stool, protu- berances at the extremity of the rectum, and dis- charge of blood and mucus. For these complaints he applied to Mr. Sliarp, who gave hiui an oint- ment to be applied after each stool, some soapy pills to be taken, and recommended the use of a clyster alittlo before the lime of going to stool. The latter remedy, however, could not be adopted, and no material benefit was derived from the others. S mie years afterwards, when Mr. Hey was consulted the foregoing symptoms contimicd; in addition to which there was the grievance of the prolapsus, which came on at every time of going to stool, and lasted for several hours. This judicious surgeon at first advised the patient to wash tlie prolapsed part with a lotion, composed of an infusion of oak- bark, lime-water, and spirit of wine, and k(U!pin|^ on the tumor compresses, wot with this fluid, and