membrane itself, so that it is difficult to tear, and coiisiiierable roughness of its surface maybe noticed, depending on smiill vascular elevations surrounded by red areolrc. The membrane in this condition often appears to have lost its power of absorption, so that for months, or even for j^ears, a dropsical secretion is constantly accunuilating in its cavity. In many cases, the membrane becomes shrivelled or puckered up — an effect frequently seen on the surface of the liver J and a similar change occa- sionally affects the lining membrane of tlie heart or its valves, and the inner membrane of arteries and veins. SynovialMemhmm.-—The effects of inflammation on synovial are precisely analogous to those seen in serous membranes. "It occasions (says SirB.Brodie) —1st, apreternatural secretion of synovia ; Sndly, effusion of coagulated lymph into the cavity of the joint; Srdl}-, a tliickening of the membrane, a conversion of it into a gristly substance, and an effusion of coagulated lymph, and probably of serum, into the cellular texture by which it is connected to the external parts ; 4thly, in some instances, adhesion, more or less extensive, of the opposite surfaces of the reflected membranes to each other." {Brodie, Diseases of Joints, Sth ed., p. 13.) Occasionally also it leads to ulceration. It differs from inflammation of serous membranes in its greater tendency to produce thickening of the membrane itself, to such an extent that in some cases, after long-continued inflammation, not only does the vascular and thickened membrane "project into the articular cavity, covering the margin of the cartilaginous surface," but also " vascular fringes project from it into the cavity of the joint, which, in a more advanced stage of the disease, become converted into a number of membranous processes, containing a fatty matter, and a good deal re- sembling the appendices epiploicoe of the great in- testine." {Drodie, ut supra, p. 75 and 77.) Mucous Membrane.—" The first character of in- flammation of a mucous membrane is redness, which varies from rose to blackish brown, from tlie lightest and most superficial injection to layers of a uniform colour,occup) ingall the thickness of the membrane." {Geiidriji, p. 509.) The surface of tlie inflamed membrane "is slightly rugous, especially where it is covered with papillas : these eminences are swollen and puffed up to such a degree, that they stand out separately, and cause an appearance of fissures between them." (Gendrin.) Inflamed mucous membranes are always thickened in pro- portion to their vascularity, the number of follicles they contain, and the amount and density of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. The membrane becomes opaque and soft: it easily tears. If it is yery thin, a serous infiltration takes place beneath as in oedema glottidis ; if thick, into its substance. In some cases, this effusion contains more lymph, which subsequently condenses and becomes more or less organised, causing a permanent encroachment on the mucous canal, as in the for- mation of stricture. Small extraviisations of blood are frequently mixed with these eftusions. The mucous follicles are inflamed, red, and enlarged, Mgether with the membrane. The inflamed membrane is at first unnaturally drv, even its OTUinary secretion being suspended or diminished. Iter a while, however, its secretion returns, •ncreascdin quantity and greatly altered in quality, "eing at first thin, serous, and acrid, but becoming 21 INFLAMMATION. subsequently more and more purulent, till it at last assumes, in many instances, nil the characters of genuine pus. In some special cases, lymph is thrown out, forming false membranes, as in croup and, in a less decided manner, in dj-sentery. ' The exudation in or beneath the membrane maj-, and often does, become purulent, giving rise to' pustules (jmslular ir,flammalion of Gendrin) and aphthae. Ulceration is a very common morbid appearance in inflamed raucous membranes, es- pecially in the intestinal canal, where every degree of ulceration is met with, from simple softening and abrasion of the epithelium to the deep excavated ulcer with hard borders. Such ulcera- tion especially affects the seat of the follicles. Occasionally, too, parts of the membrane are found mortified. A mucous membrane affected with chronic in- flammation is rough and wrinkled, hard and tough. Its glands are enlarged and hard, and inore or less confused with the submncous celluhir tissues. The secretion is but little changed from its normal character, but is excessive. If, however, the inflammation is considerable, the secretion is unnaturally serous. Should acute, inflammation supervene on a membrane in this condition, it rapidlgr softens and breaks it down. Vessels.—The results of inflammation in vessels are usually stated to be redness of the interna} coat, ^yith more or less thickening and friability. A fibrinous effusion takes place beneath and into the substance of the inner coat—an effusion which, in chronic inflammation, undergoes a fatty trans- formation, producing in arteries what is known as atheroma. Chronic inflammation is frequently followed also by calcareous deposits in the same membrane. (See Arteritis.) Muscle. — The character of inflamed muscle is also softening. Its structure is weakened, so that it readily tears, and gives way under pressure. _ After inflammation of the heart, for example, its fibres are in many instances perma- nently attenuated, loose and relaxed. And a similar condition is found, in a minor degree, as the result of inflammation in the intestinal canal. Un the other hand, when muscular tissue has been subjected to long-continued irritation from in- flammation in its neighbourhood, its fibres may become hard and hypertrophied — a condition frequently to be seen in the bladder, when the mucous membrane of that viscus is in a state of chronic inflammation. A'cTOc—Inflamed nerve tissue also very early becomes soft and diffluent, so that it breaks down and may be washed away by a gentle stream of water. Fibrous tissue, being firm and but slightly vascular, does not at first present such manifest indications of morbid change. In the early stages of inflammation, though the tissue may be pink from increased vascularitj', there appears to be but little swelling : it is only after some time, or under a severe attack, that lymph is found either in its substance or on its surface, causing its enlargement and roughening. At the same time the tissue itself is evidently weakened, as is shown by the friability of inflamed periosteum ; by the loosening of joints whoso ligaments have been frequently subjected to inflammation; and oven more con- spicuously in the eye, by the formation of staphyloma as a result of inflammation of tho