250 LITHOTOMY. bladder. This subject will be again alluded to in speaking of vesico-vaginal lithotomy. The incision downwards and outwards was re- commended by Le Dran, and is occasionally em- ployed at the present time; a straight staff is passed into the bladder ; the operator then grasps the handle of the staff, and directs its groove obliquely downwards and outwards towards the ramus of the ischium. A probe-pointed bistoury is placed in the groove of the staff, and the whole length of the urethra is divided. The neck of the bladder may also be divided at the same time, if the size of the calculus should render this necessary. The incision downwards and outwards is, per- haps, slightly less objectionable than the incision directly downwards, but this is all that can be said in its favour. Dionis practised a double /ionaontanncision of the urethra with a narrow bistouiy. He first divided the anterior portion of the canal horizontally on both sides, and then had recourse to dilatation. Dionis, however, candidly acknowledged that three-fourths of the women on whom he operated remained affected with incontinence of urine. Mr. Listen introduced a modification of Dionis's rnethod by cutting upwards and outwards. He notched the neck of the bladder on\y, on both sides, towards each ramus of the pubis, and then dilated Avith the fingers. His plan was " to widen the urethra gradually by means of the screw dilator, then by the introduction of a straight blunt-pointed knife to notch the neck of the bladder slightly towards each ramus of the pubes, so as to divide the dense iibrous band encircling it; the dilatation is continued, and, in a few minutes, the finger can be admitted. Incontinence of urine may follow the operation from the distension of the sphincter of the bladder, but in a few weeks this will generally cease." {Praci. Surg., ed. 4, p. 525.) The mamon. directly upwards dates from the time of Ambrose Pare'. Its history has been already alluded to. Sir B. Brodie practised a limited incision in this direction, combining it with dilatation, and appears to have been well satisfied with the result. The combination of incision upwards with dilatation has also been recommended by Sir P. Crampton. (See DuUin Qtcart. Jour, of Med. Soiettce, February 1847.) It does not appear, however, that it can always be depended upon not to produce in- continence of urine. Two average-sized stones were recently extracted by means of the incision upwards bv Mr. Ure, in St. Mary's Hospital, with a very satisfactory result, the patient bemg able to retain her urine almost immediately after the operation. The incision made was a very free one, to which, and the consequent avoidance of distension or laceration, may perhaps be attributed the very favourable termination of the case. (See Lancet, Nov. 8, 1862.) Of all the urethral methods, the incision upwards, and perhaps also that upwards and outwards, are the only ones at all deserving of recommendation. They are not,like the others, attended with the dis- advantage of laying one mucous canal open into another when the two are only separated naturally by a thin partition ; and they are therefore more likely to heal by granulation, and not to interfere subsequently with the retentive functions of the canal. The free incision upwards may perhaps be not altogether devoid of the risk of urjuary infiltra- tion into the loose areolar tissue between the bladder and the symphysis pubis; but the urethra, which is situated at the bottom of the incision, forms so con- enient a groove for the escape of urine, that this risk is probably not very great. It is, however, only adapted for the removal of stones of moderate size, because the bladder and urethra are divided in a direction which affords only a limited space for their extraction. Vestibular Operation.—With a view to reach the neck of the bladder without the disadvantage of laying open the urethra in its whole length, a method which is said to have been practised by Celsus was revived by Lisfranc, under the above title. It is in many respects objectionable, and it is not intended to recommend its re-adoption; but it is of sufficient interest, as one of the modes in which the bladder may be reached, to warrant its description in this place. The veslibntc is the triangular smooth space bounded on each side by the nymphse, and below by the meatus urinarius and commencement of the vagina, the clitoris being situated at its superior angle or apex. An ordi- nary grooved staff is introduced Into the urethra, with its convexity turned upwards towards the symphysis pubis—thatjis to say, its ordinary posi- tion as used in the male is reversed. A curved incision, with its convexity upwards, parallel with the arch of the pubes, is then to be made across the centre of the vestibular space, and the tissues intervening between the pubes above and the urethra below are to be divided, until the grooved staff can be felt in the urethra near its vesical ter- mination. The urethra is to be opened on its upper surface, near the neck of the bladder, by cutting into the groove of the staff, and the incision is to be extended through the neck of the bladder either in the transverse or vertical direction. The obvious disadvantages of this method are, that the incision has to be made through so inconve- niently narrow a space, and that the stone has to be extracted through the narrowest part of the arch of the pubes. The confined condition of the wound must also create a risk of urinary infiltra- tion about the neck of the bladder. The plan, indeed, seems to have been ultimately abandoned by Lisfmnc himself. Lateral Operation.—A very much better method of reaching the neck of the bladder without laying open the urethra may be described under the above title. It is, as nearly as the different structure of the parts will permit, the counterpart of the lateral operation in the male. Its introduction is due to Dr. Andrew Buchanan, of Glasgow, though some- thiiiiT very like it appears to have been practised by Frere Jacques; but it was condemned in succes- sion by several writers of note, apparently without sufficient grounds. It may be performed in the following manner:—A grooved staff, either straight or curved as the operator may prefer, having been introduced into the bladder, an incision is to be made on tho inner surface of the left nympha, commencing half an inch' above the meatus urinarius, and passing obliquely downwards and outwards parallel with the rami of the pubes and ischium. This incision should be carried deeply into the space between the rami on the outside, and the vagina on the inside, care being taken not to wound the vagina, which should be protected