INFLAMMATION, and other grave diseases " ;—oi TrvpeTalt/oyres Totai Kwiaoicrl re KaX TreptirKevfj.oviricn Kol &A- Xoiatv Icrxvpotcrtv vov(j-i]na<nv. His leading doc- trine was, that disease was produced by irrita- tion of the humours (or of the blood, as we should say); that these humours underwent certain changes desciibed as coction ; of which the most familiar examples and proofs were the deposit in the urine at the close of a feverish attack, and changes in the quality of the secretion of the nostrils in the course of a coryza. These changes when complete, are followed by the sepa- ration and excretion of the offending matters, whether by the urine and its sediments, liy sweats, haemorrhage, or abscess. Lastly, the idea of lime enters largelj' into his doctrines; for,cfiens parihus, there is no doubt that everv morbid process has its own period, equall)' with every natural one. All these doctrines are thoroughly consistent with general truth. His treatment of pleurisy may be taken as an example of his practice. At first, he says, it will be proper to attempt to dispel the pain by warm applications, such as hot water in a bottle or bladder, or in a vessel of brass or earth covered with some soft substance; or with a sponge wrung out of hot water, a poultice of barley or tares, or bran boiled in vinegar and ■water, and sewed up in a bag; or with a dry fomentation of heated millet seed or salt. If this do not relieve, blood must be drawn from the arm in considerable quantity, and until it flows of a lighter colour. Besides these, purgative medicines combined with aromatics, were admin- istered; ptisans of farinaceous substances, honey and water or oxymel, with pure water ; and warm baths, whose good effects, and the care necessary in using them, are described in terms that would suit the present day. {On Regimen in. Acule Disease, Works of Hipporrates, Siide.iiham Soc vol. i. pp. 175, 2)!9.) When we speak of the surgery of the ancients ■we must remember that we speak of the opinions and practice which prevailed from about B.C. 500 to the destruction of the Alexandrian library A.D. 64 0. This, in the form impressed on it by Galen, was handed down through the Arabian and early European schools to form the start- ing point of the opinions and practice of the present day. Hut during the earlier part of this ancient period doctrines had not become so crys- tallised and stereotyped as they were in the Middle Ages ; on the contrary, it was a period re- markable for activity of thought and freedom of controversy. Rival schools and ambitious pro- fessors struggled at Athens, Alexandria and Rome, as they do now at Edinburgh or Paris. When we speak of " Hippocrates" we must recollect that, of the sixty treatises and more which are called by his name not all were written by one man. The passage I have selected from the " Ancient Medicine," is evidently the work of a rational empiric of the Sydenham type. But most of the H ippooratic treatises contain a body ot doctrines or dogmatic systems, partly resting on experience, partly on the philosophy of the day— a kuid of medical orthodox creed, the holder's of which were commonly called JJoymalists or Ra- Itomlisls. A-mnngst these doctrines was that of a V2la/. principle, or (pvirts ■, of codimi, of Umn, as evidenced by critical days and fixed periods for morbid phenomena ; of the existence of four ele- 55 ments—earth, water, air, and fire—which, as M. Renouard suggests, represent the solid, liquid, and ga.seous states of matter, and the existence of heat ; that there were four conditions or tempera- ments — hot, cold, moist, and dry ; and four humours in the animal body—blood, serum or phlegm, bile, and black bile;"and that upon the quantity, mixture, and iemperies of these, health and disease depended. These, as will be seen presently, form the basis of Galen's doctrines, and may be found in surgical treatises down to the middle of the eighteenth century. But no established school or dogma was more safe in the free atmosphere of Greece and Alexandria than it would be now. Whoever reads that wonderfully interesting introduction to Celsus De Medicina, will fee that amongst the dogmatic physicians there were men, such as Erasistratus, v.^ho difl^'ered as much from Galen as Todd did from Klliotson ; and he will see further how the imper- fections of the prevalent creed drove men to form new sects, in doing which they did but satisfy the necessities of the human mind. There was," as I have hinted,a sect ^'qui se ah experientia. efxiretpiicous vominubanV''—\.\\& Alexandrian sect oi empirics, the most honourable and useful of all, whose name has in modern ears a baseness that it does not justly merit. The opinions of this scliool were almost identical with those of the Hippocrates who wrote the treatise on " Ancient Medicine " in abjuring a priori sophisms. Some time later, Asclepiades, a man of brilliant genius, bred, like Boerhaave, as pliilosopher and rhetorician, esta- blished himself at Rome and began to practise as a physician. He, deriding the complexity of existing theories, proposed a short and easv way to medical knowledge—a short cut or fjiOuSo's, founded on a few common sense principles. He said, for instance, that in every disease there must be something too tight or too loose—too much discharge or too little—and that by attend- ing to these simple indications any complex system of therapeutics was made superfluous. It will readily occur to the reader that no age of physic is without its mefkodists—the men who lay a'll dis- eases to the door, now of plethora, now of de- bility—or spinal irritation, or inaction of the liver, &o. With these introductory remarks we are prepared to study the position of Galen in the history of inflammation. The opinions of Galen (i';. a.d. 131, d. circa 200) on inflammation have to be collected from various parts of his most voluminous treatises He frequently repeats himself, and gives nume- rous partial defiuiti(ms of inflammation, though scarcely twice in the same words. The follow- ing are his formal definitionB contained in his col- lection of " Medical Definitions" ('Opoi 'larpiKol par. dxxxii. et scrj. Ed. Kuhn, vol. xix p' i'l 1) :— " Inflammation {(pKey/iov^) is a swelling with redness, producing severe throbbing pain. And it is called inflammation, because the part, as it were, burns. Or, a painful resisting swelling, with redness, apart from fever. Or, inflammation' is a painful swelling, hard, resisting, having its origin from an afflux of blood. " Erysipelas is a redness with violent burning sometimes producing fever and shivering. Other- wise, erysipelas is a painful swelling, having its origin from bilious blood.