foot. It will be required to be worn for at least a twelvemonth, or iiiofe. It is also desiriiblo that the patient should cnn- tiiiiie to wear some form of retentive apiianitns at night, for six months or more a:'ter the del'or- niity has been cured. This may consist either of the Scarpa's shoe, or simply of a metal sole-ulate, with a steel bar connected with it, and carried up to the calf of the leg in iniitatiim of the Scarpa's shoi', but without any cog-wheels, so tliat it may be liyht and of little inconvenience. NON-CONGENITAI, TALIPES VALGUS. Non-congenital talipes valgus, or flatfoot, is an affection of very frequent occurrence; and exists under such a variety of circumstances, and gives rise to so much personal inconvenience, tliat it demands special attention. ExTEaNAL Chauacters.—The only essential external chaructfr of non-congenital valgus is a flattened condition of the longitudinal and trans- verse arches of the foot. The inner maiyin of the foot comes flatly in contact with the ground, but, except in severe cases of long standing, or in spas- modic cases, the ouler viar(/iu of the loot is not raised, as in the congeniral form. The natural cm- vexity or prominence nf the-inslep is diminished in proportion to the severity of the case. The inner matleolus is more prominent than natural, in cnn- Bequence of the yielding and elongation of the deltoid ligament; and is also nearer to the ground, so that iheflat-footed child is commonly said " to walk on the inner ankle." A little helow and in front of the inner malleolus, two bony pnmii- nences are ohserved with a depression between them—one formed by the inner portion of the head of the astragalus, left exposed by the altered posi- tion of the navicular bone, and the other by the tuberosity of the navicular bone itself. Increase of Distortion.—During progression the foot is everted, and the weight of the body thrown upon the inner margin, so that the ankle- joint is called but little into play, and flexion and extension very imperlectly performed. As a con- sequence of this, contraction, or adapted shortening, of the tendo-Achillis, as well as in some cases of the peronei and extensor-commuriis muscles, takes place; so that the foot is rigidly held in the de- formed position, and the deformity becomes in- creased. In severe cases of long standing the arch of the foot is not only depressed but really reversed—the loot being bent upon itself in a boat- shaped form. Speci.al Effects of this Deformitv.—Ta- lipes valgus is undoubtedly the most painful and seriously inconvenient deformity of the foot. When even of moderate severity, it frequently deprives the sufferer of the power of walking more than a short distance, or of standing for any length of time, and therefore incapacitates him for many of the ordinary duties and occupations of life. Occasionally, the deformity increases slowly, and continues many years without producing pain, but these are exceptional cases. In consequence of the limited flexion and extension at the ankle- joint, a very ugly gait and awkward mode of walking is always produced; and in growing girls it sometimes gives rise to curvature of the spine. PES. 687 MORBID anatomy AND ETIOLOGY. So far as relates to the deviations in the relative position of the bones, &c., the morbid anatomy of non-congenital valgns is identical wiili tliat of the congenital form already described; but whilst con- genital valgus is accompanied with, and generally produced by, active contraction of the muscles; in the non-congenital form there is generally, but not invariably, a coexisting muscular debility in the early stage, the contraction being a secondary and late result. Non-congenital valgus, however, occurs under snch a variety of circumstances, depending upon such different causes, that, in- stead of considering the morbid anatomy and etiology separately, it will be better to arrange all the cases in the six following classes, and to men- tion the anatomical peculiarities in each class: Ist Class. Valgus depending upon Uyamentoua and muscular debility. 2iid. Rachitic valgus. 3rd. Paralytic valgus. 4th. Spasmodic valgus. Sth. Traiinialic valgus. 6th. Valgus consequent upon disease of the ankle-joint or surrounding tissues. Class 1, arising irom Lii/ainentous and Muscular Debilily.—Non-congenital valgus from this cause occurs at different periods of life, most frequently in childhood and youth, but it is by no means of uncommon occurrence in young adults. In children, when they begin to walk, we fre- quently see the feet turn ouiwards, and the arch hecome depressed from the siiperincuaibeiit weiglit; and, a few months later, knock-knee becomes deve- loped in these children. This condition is always recoverable, sometimes without any artificial as- sistance, but in most cases mLchanical support to the feet is required; if neglected, however, and a feeble constitutional condition exists, it may lay the foundation of a conhrnied valgus. In tioys and girls (but more frequently in the former) of delicate constitution and lax fibre, be- tween the ages of 14 and 18, when growth is rapid, flatfoot frequently becomes developed, and remains as a persistent deformity unless removed by art. In girls the constitutional causes above mentioned more frequently predominate; but in boys, circumstances arising from their occupations —which, in the working-classes, frequently compel them to stand from twelve to fourteen hours every day, and in addition oblige them to carry heavy weights—act even more powei fully than the con- stitutional causes. This deformity, however, is not confined to the working-classes, but is fre- quently met with among schoolboys, junior city- clerks, and cadets; in the latter class the drilling, marching, and carrying of guns evidently tend to produce the deformity, or more frequently to in- crease it whe-- it already exists in a slight degree. In aclulls flatfoot frequently becomes a con- firmed and persistent deformity, having generally existed in a slight degree from an earlier period, and been neglected in consequence of the absence of inconvenience. A considerable number of [lolicemen arc annually discharged from the force in consequence of being incapacitated from their duties by flatfoot; and, although great care is taken not to enlist flaifooted men into the ainiy, soldiers are not unfrequently obliged to leave the service from this cause. Waiters at taverns are