874 UTERUS, INVERSION OF, Cases have Leen known of the inverted uterus sloughing off: Saxlorph (\n Actis Sue. Aled. J/av.); Debonair {Richter's Chir. BihL); Riidlord (JJuhliii Journ. of Med. 1835). la otlier ciises the stran- jiuhition caused bj' the cervix haa ended fatally before there was time for sloughing. ( Vclpcau.) More marvellous still, cases have occurred in which the recently inverted uterus has been lorn away by the attendant, the patient recovering.— {Dr. J. a Cooke.) J. L. Casper says {Ilandhooh of Forensic Medicine^Nciv Syde7iliam Soc. Translation, vol. iii.) laceration of the pelvic ligaments may attend spontaneous inversion of the uterus. The diagnosis is especially important ; St is not always easy ; and the most deplorable conse- quences have followed from error. M. A. Petit had a patient in the hospital at Lyons. Six surgeons decided that it was polypus, and a liga- ture was applied. A shriek caused suspicion of inversion ; the ligature was removed. Tiie woman died at the end of five days. On exami- nation inversion was found. Dr. Wm. Hunter tied the inverted uterus for a polypus in a yomig woman who said she had never been pregnant. She died ; the uterus was found inverted. WrisbiTg {Commentatio de uteri post partum mduralem resedione noji lethali, 1788) relates a case of a young woman delivered by a midwife. The placenta was dragged out with the uterus in- verted. The midwife cut off the whole mass with a knife and buried it. It was disinterred, and its nature verified, and Wrisberg examining the patient felt the opening at the fundus of the vagina into the peritoneum. The woman re- covered. Strange and shocking as it seems, simi- lar histories, excepting the recovery, are^ not un- common. Several are related in Crosse's Essay. Dubois (Dictionnaire de Med. 184G) says he knew of two cases of inversion mistaken for poly- pus by two of the most skilful surgeons in Paris. In one case a ligature was put on ; the patient died in thirty-six hours. In the presence of the recent accident, the most frequent mistakes have been to suppose the mass is a second placenta, or the head of a second foetus. The forceps has been applied to the inverted uterus to drag it away. The diagnosis is especially difficult when in- version is complicated with polypus. The polypus may be detected, but not the inversion ; and a ligature applied to the polypus may include a portion of the uterus. Gooch relates {Diseases of Woiiie7i) the following case : Dr. Denman passed a ligature round a polypus of the fundus ; as soon as he tightened it he produced pain and vomiting. As soon as the ligature was slackened these symptoms ceased ; but whenever he attempted to tighten it the pain and vomiting returned ; the ligature was left on, but loose. The patient died about six weeks afterwards, and on opening the body it was discovered that the uterus was in- verted, and that the ligature had included the inverted portion. The diagnosis has to be made under the two dn- ferent circumstances of recent occurrence and chronicity. In the first case, the history furnishes useful indications. The sudden sense of injury and shock following labour suggests immediate exploration. Negative and positive signs concur in poii.tiiig to a conclusion. In the first place the uterus is not felt, as it ought to be, a firm round ball behind the pubes. On passing tlie hand firmly into the pelvic cavity from above down- wards behind the symphysis, a vacuum is felt. Keeping the hand in this situation, the fingers of the other hand are passed into the vagina, and there a mass rounded, soft or firm, is felt. The relations and position of this mass are clearly defined between the two hands. If the placenta is attached, the uterus is obscured by it. But bared, the diagnosis will be cleared up, if the finger is carried all round the mass up to its inser- tion. On pressing the mass upwards, as in attempt to replace it, the iingers exploring through the abdo- minal wall will sink into a pit formed by the disappearance of the uterus through its os. Then the finger in the vagina exploring the root or in- sertion of the tumor, comes to a circular furrow at the fundus of the vagina, and a prominent ring, which is the os uteri. If the inversion be not complete, the finger, or more easily the uterine sound, will pass a little way between the ring formed by the os and the pedicle of the tumor. If the inversion is complete, only the furrow will be felt. If the inversion has been followed by prolapse of the mass beyond the vulva, the ex- ploration is easier, as the tumor may then be felt continuous by its origin with the inverted vagina ; it may also be seen. Its aspect is that of a florid tumor with a very vascular, velvety surface, easily bleeding on the slightest touch ; or if the presenting part be that to which the placenta had grown, it is uneven, of a dark hue, with pla- cental shreds or coagula attached to it. The tumor is painful to the touch. Any attempt to dracr upon it causes a sensation described by the patfent as if her inside were being dragged out. Pain is also felt down the legs ; vomiting is likely to occur. In size, the tumor may equal a child's head, or it may be no larger than a fist. A cru- cial test is the" alternation of the mass from con- traction to relaxation. This vital act indticing characteristic changes of size and consistence per- tains to the uterus alone. The diagnosis from polypus is not always easy. A polvpus may complicate pregnancy. Pregnancy usually causes an intra-uterine polypus to grow at i an accelerated ratio. After the birth of the child, the polvpus will be extruded, perhaps dragging the fundus uteri a little with it, thus sinndatii^. If not producing, a minor degree of inversion, lo distinguish this from inversion, it must he remem- bered that polypus thus appearing after labour, is actually even more rare than inversion. The probability therefore of inversion ought to operate with at least equal force upon the mind ot the surgeon. The chief points of distniction aie that a polypus is not sensitive ; it does not change its form or size, it does not contract or relax ; its expulsion does not produce such severe sliocK. an form and size polypus may resemble inversion, biit t difters in relation to other parts. It is quite pos- sible that the placenta may have been pa l>ai0 attached to the surface of the P^bT"'5 then exhibit placental shreds and cl"ts >ke tlie uterus The finger and sotindnmst be r^ to make the case manifest. , will discover the uterus in sHu belnud tl'^ pul e The finger in the vagina will t^"-." , l"' f „ polvpus, between it and the rnig of tl'^ "'"^ 'which embraces it. If the attachment of the