702 TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE resemble one another, and their true character cannot be made out till a later period. " In general (says he), scrofulous enlargements do not yield to common treatment ; they continue indefi- nitely, are frequently accompanied by other affec- tions of the same nature, and are connected with a strumous constitution." He further observes that the tubercuUir degeneration is one of the principal characters of tliese scrofulous enlarge- ments. In the majority of cases, he says, the deposit takes place in the fibro-cellular tissue sur- rounding the epididymis, but it may also occur in the substance of the testicle itself. The tubercles are developed slowly, and may continue without alteration for three or four years. The mode in ■which they commence, their progress, and their long duration, are indicative of their nature. " Scrofulous swellings of the testicle are not so hard aa scirrhous ones ; but they are harder than those which depend upon inflammation. They are free from heat and redness, and cause a sense of weight and numbness. The subcutaneous cellu- lar tissue is ordinarily free," except at the points ■where abscesses advance to the surface. " The shape of the tumour is commonly uneven and ir- regular, while, in a scirrhous enlargement, .the tes- ticle is more globular, and the epididymis knobby; the spermatic cord being mostly spared, but now and then implicated. As the scrofulous disease of the testicle makes progress, certain points within the organ soften, and, when touched, seem as if they contained a soft substance. Soon after this, small bluish projections are noticed. Here the skin ulcerates, and from the openings are discharged a thin pus, and a yellowish cheese-like or pulta- ceous substance, evidently a product of scrofula. Fistula; are next formed, out of which is voided a serous imperfect kind of pus. The disease may go on for years. (^Dupuylren in Clin. chir. t. i. p. 101.) The testicle, even in very young children, some- times becomes enlarged and very hard, but with- out pain ; and this indolent increase of it may remain for many weeks, months, or years, and, as the health improves, ultimately subside. More frequently the disease comes on at puberty, or between that period and the age of twenty ; and, not uncomraonlj', it attacks both testicles, li suppuration occur, which happens even in chil- dren, but still more frequently at puberty, the matter often forms in the globus major of the epi- didymis, though sometimes in the globus minor. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the body of the testicle rarely suppurates ; " but, after the epidi- dymis has ulcerated, the testis becomes affected, and the scrotum assumes a livid hue ; ulceration ensues, and an abscess forms, which discharges ill-formed pus, and some semen, at least after the ago of puberty ; and the opening is extremely dif- iicult to heal," continuing for months, and even for years." One or both testicles at length waste, vntil but a small portion is left, and the seminal secretion almost entirely ceases. In dissections of the epididymis and testis af- fected with scrofulous disease, Sir Astley Cooper lias found a yellowish mass surrounded by a zone of inflammation in the globus major, or sometimes, though less frequently, in the globus minor. }Vhen this patch softens down, the matter which ^8 discharged is not pure pus, but composed of fibrine -dud serum, and having a slight yellow tinge. " In the testes there are several similar yellow spots, accompanied by the same kind of inflammatory zone ; and several yellow screaks are also found amidst the tubuli. Scrofulous ab- scesses in the testes are sometimes accompanied by a granular swelling, like that wiiich exists in the simple chronic disease." {Sir Astley Cooper, Op. cit. p. 97—99.) [It is not uncommon to find a hernia of the testicle resulting from this disease; the ordinary red granular protrusion is then mixed with small masses of a yellowish-white colour, similar to the flaky curd-like material found in scrofulous glands; the margins of the skin which surround it, and to which it is adherent, are livid, undermined, and irregular. Nelaton and other French surgeons regard scro- fulous disease as one of the most common affec- tions to which the testicle is liable, and consider that many of the cases described by English writers as chronic orchitis are really examples of scrofulous deposit in this organ ; they state that the yellow masses found in these cases are dia- gnostic of their scrofulous nature, as this kind of material is quite different from the exudation met with in chronic inflammation. {Path. chir. vol. v. p. 538.)] Mercury, which proves so efficient in the ordi- nary chronic enlargement of the testicle, does harm in the scrofulous disease of it. No specific remedy for scrofula is known; but the patient should have the benefit of pure air, and especially of that of the coast. The diet should be nutritious, and a mode- rate amount of wine or beer allowed. Sir A. Cooper stronglj' recommends tepid sea-bathing. Since in tubercular affections the digestive system is often at fault, such medicines should be pre- scribed as tend to improve those organs, and as soon as possible a tonic treatment adopted, com- prising quinine, iron, and cod-liver oil. The pre- parations of iodine, such as iodide of potassium or iodide of iron, are often very serviceable. Sir Benjamin Brodie states that he has seen more benefit derived from the liquor potassse than any other medicine. It is to be combined with tinc- ture of gentian, and taken in the dose of half a drachm three times a day, blended with a wine- glass of table-beer. The acetate of potash, which may be produced by this mixture, he conceives has also a good effect, by acting as a diuretic (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xiii. p. 378.) Whilst the swelling remains indolent, ointments or lotions containing iodine may be used, or mer- curial applications to it. As suppuration sets in, poultices should be substituted and persevered with so long as the abscesses continue to dis- charge. To the resulting ulcer some slight stimu- lant, such as a solution of one grain of sulphate of copper in an ounce of distilled water, may be em- ployed as a lotion, and also as an injection for the sinus, or liq. calcis Siv. and hydrarg. chloridi oj.: nitrate of silver lotions are also eligible. Ilernia Testis, or Granular Srceltitig of the Tcsltde, as it was formerly termed, is a protrusion of the testicular structure in consequence of an abscess either of the epididymis or testis, and may be tlie result of acute, chronic, or scrofulous inflammation. This disease has received the names of/;;'o»fa and /un„ns testis, hut very improperly, as it consists neither of a fattv substance, nor is it a real fungus. IWhen suppurative iuflammation occurs in the