return of the complaint tlian other patients who discliargo lithic calculi. {Phil. Trans. 1808.) With ref^ard to chemical characters (says Pro- fessor Murray), it is less affected by the appli- cation of the usual re-agents than any other calculus. The pure alkaline solutions have no effect upon it, and the acids dissolve it with great difficult}'. When it is reduced, however, to fine powder, both muriatic and nitric acid dissolve it. The solutions of the alkaline carbonates decompose it, as Fourcroy and Vauquelin have observed ; and this affords us the easiest method of analysing it. The calculus in powder being digested in the solution, carbonate of lime is soon formed, which remains insoluble, and is easily distinguished by the effervescence produced by the addition of weak acetic acid, while there is obtained in solu- tion the compound of o.xalic acid with the alkali of the alkaline carbonate. From this the oxalic acid may be precipitated by the acetate of lead, or of barytes ; and this oxalate, thus formed, may be afterwards decomposed by sulphuric acid. Another method of analysing this calculus is by exposure to heat : its acid is decomposed, and by raising the heat sufficiently, pure lime is obtained, amounting to about a third of the weight of the calculus. According to Fourcroy and Vauquelin, the oxalate of lime calculus contains more animal matter than any other, Phosphatic Deposits and Calculi. The state of the system, which leads to the pro- duction of alkaline urine, and of white sand, is very different from that which is attended with a too acid condition of the urine, and the formation of red sand. The latter occurs in individuals who are over-fed, or over-stimulated, and take little exercise ; but the alkaline urine indicates debility of the system. In a person who is exhausted by too severe mental or bodily exertions, or has long been worn by mental anxiety, the urine becomes alkaline. In many instances a course of mercury renders the urine alkaline: in some individuals, even a single dose of calomel will produce the same effect. In a person who is already weak, the further degree of exhaustion, resulting from the operation of an active purgative, will render the urine alkaline. Ijijuries of the spine will have the same effect. This fact Sir Benjamin Brodie observed as long ago as 1807; and always men- tioned it in his Lectures ever since 1808. {Op. cil. p. 180.) It follows, from the foregoing facts, that when there is a deposit of the triple phos- phate, purgatives, and especially mercurial ones, should be emploj'ed with great caution. Alkaline remedies are to be avoided, and acids exhibited, as first suggested by Dr. Wollaston. The patient may drink lemonade, or eat oranges, or lemons; but if the vegetable acids disagree, the mineral acids may be tried. The dose of the acid must depend on circumstances, and be regulated ac- cording to the results of frequent examinations of the urine with the reddened litmus and yellow tur- meric paper. " From five to ten minims of muriatic acid, given three times daily, will generally be sufficient; but, in extreme cases, you may give as much as thirty or forty minims, or even more, of the strong nitric acid, in the course of the day, sufficiently diluted with syrup and water." (Sir B. Droilie, Op. cil. p. 187.) Tonics are also ser- viceable, as bark, sulphate of quinine, and prepa- URINARY CALCULI. g.^is rations of iron. The diet should be rather a ge- nerous one, but easy of digestion. Fermented liquors and acidulous wines may be taken in mo- deration ; and opium and henbane, if they do not interfere with digestion,are very useful. When the phosphate of lime is deposited, together with a ropy mucous secretion from the lining of the bladder, the indication is to remove the cause, namely, the chronic inflammation of that mem- brane. "Perfect rest, in the horizontal posture, opiate clysters or suppositories, opium, extract of henbane, or lettuce, given by the mouth, will be useful. The exhibition of the decoction of the root of the pareira brava is in many instances pro- ductive of excellent effects. It has a remarkable influence over the secretion of the ropy alkaline mucus. Injections into the bladder of warm water, and even of a weak solution of nitric acid, are some- times useful." {Sir B. Brodie, Op. cit. 189.) Vyhen the secretion of the triple phosphate by the kidneys, and that of phosphate of lime by the bladder, are coexistent, this gentleman unites the two modes of treatment called for by this com- bination, and which seem to him quite compatible. (See Bladder, Inflammation of.) [Both alkaline and earthy phosphates exist naturally in the urine. The former, viz. phosphates of soda and potash, are very soluble, and never form deposits. The latter, or phosphates of mag- nesia and lime, are soluble when the urine is of normal acidity, but are deposited in the form of white sand when it becomes alkaline. The phos- phate of magnesia combines with ammonia to form an aramonio-magnesian phosphate, which is thrown down in a crystalline form; the phosphate of lime forms a powdery amorphous deposit. Occasionallj-, hovyever, the ammonio-magnesian phosphate is de- posited in urine which gives a neutral or acid reac- tion with litmus paper; and Dr. Golding Bird explains the fact by supposing that, though the urme may redden litmus, it may contain no acid in an uncombined state. Dr. Thudichum believes that in these cases the acid reaction may depend on the presence of chloride of ammonium, in which the magnesian phosphate is very slightly soluble. Phos- phate of lime, however, is so soluble in the latter salt, that it could not exist as a deposit as long as ' any of the chloride of ammonium is not neutra- lised. (See Thudichum, Pathol, of the Ui-ine, 10(j8, p, 204.) It is worthy of notice that a white deposit of earthy phosphates, which might be mistaken for albumen, is sometimes thrown down when urine is heated. This probably occurs when the solvent acid is a volatile one, such as car- bonic acid, the evaporation of which may cause the earthy deposit to appear. This, however, will be at once dissolved by the addition of a little nitric or hydrochloric acid, and is thus readily distin- guished from albumen. The magnesian phosphate is always derived from the urine ; the phosphate of lime, however, may also be derived from the mucous secretions of the urinary passages. It is present in small quan- tities in the secretions of all mucous membranes, but is produced in excess when these membranes are irritated and inflamed. It is present in con- siderable quantity in the ropy mucus of chronic inflammation of the bladder. This mucus is itself alkaline, but, in addition to this, its presence pro- bably increases the alkalinity of the urine by favour- ing the decomposition of urea, and itscouveraiou iuto