756 TRACHEOTOMY. to the lower Lorder of the isthmug. There is no need to recall the position of the carotid arteries or jugular veins, as they are well clear of the wind- pipe, and cannot be injured if the most ordinary knowledge and skill is possessed by the operator, but it is requisite to say that occasionally a sub- stitute for the anterior jugular lies in front of the trachea, and that a transverse branch is not un- common passing from one anterior jugular to ano- ther across the front of the trachea at its lower part. Lastly, the innominate artery crosses the trachea obliquely at the inferior part of the tube, and has been found to rise considerably above the level of tlie sternum. Burns met with five in- stances of this, and in one case saw it reach the border of the thyroid gland. The left carotid has been known to arise from the innominate and cross the lower part of the trachea considerably above the sternum. These anomalies are fortu- nately rare, yet they should be held in mind. A general consideration of the anatomical rela- tionships of the windpipe teaches two lessons. 1st. The necessity of carefully confining our incisions to the middle line, especially in children in whom the windpipe is very small, easily displaced, and easily missed when the soft parts are swelled and and passing another sheet over the body and limbs and round the table. Chloroform should be used if there is much spasm and restlessness, especially in children, when tracheotomy is to be performed; for laryngotomy it is hardly necessary. It greatly facilitates the operation. If true asphyxia, how- ever, is present, i. e. when the blood is surcharged with carbonic acid, chloroform should not be em- ployed; nor is it required, as the patient is then almost quite insensible to pain, and lies quiet. Faure and Demarquay have sliovifn how long this state of anaesthesia continues in those who have been asphyxiated. Even after intelligence and the power of motion have returned, if the dys- pnoea is increased by the chloroform, its use should not be continued. The instruments required are sharp and probe pointed knives, dissecting and artery forceps, director, retractors with long handles, sponges (some fastened on whalebone), a dilator, double ciinula with tapes attached, ligatures, tenaculum, needle and thread, adhesive plaister, scissors, elastic catheter, a S3'ringe with slender and long nozzle, sharp and blunt hooks, small catch or bull-dog forceps. If the operation is performed for the removal of a foreign bod)', a piece of pliant wire infiltrated, as they often are, in consequence of j may be of use, and long slender forceps of different the measures which have been employed previous to the operation. And, 2nd. That we should not prolong our incisions further downwards to- wards the sternum than is absolutely necessary. The great movabilitj^ of the windpipe, both laterally and from above downwards, especiallj^ in the young, is necessitated by its functions, ani is attained by the bed of loose cellular tissue in which it lies. The mode in which it rises in deglutition is of advantage to the operator, as enabling him to open the tube lower than he otherwise could; but the ease with which it is displaced laterally is often a source of considerable embarrassment, both when the canal is being exposed and when it is being opened. The mucous membrane lining the trachea is attached with considerable firmness to the carti- lages; yet that it can be detached and carried be- fore the point of the canula, has been proved by the cases related by Dupuytren and Fizenu. Tracheotomy is thus Performed :—Position: The recumbent is best, on a firm narrow table with a good light. In the case of children, it is very im- portant that they be placed quite parallel with the table, so that we may not be deceived in the line of our incisions. The head and shoulders should be slightly elevated, and the neck gently (not too much) stretched. This position is better than sitting with the head supported on the breast of an assistant; but sometimes, from the extreme dyspncea caused by lying down, a sitting posture must be adopted. The aid rendered by the assistants is very impor- tant. One should steady the head by standing opposite the operator and placing a hand on either side, and, by keeping some of the fingers below the jaw the neck may at the same time be suffi- ciently extended. The limbs should he secured by a second assistant, and a third should be ready to aid the operator. As, however, we are most frequently called upon hurriedly to execute this optration, and that often at night, when assistants caimot readily be obtained, the services of the second ni:\y he dispensed with in children by binding the child's limbs firmly in a sheet before beginning, shapes. If for croup, a solution of nitrate of silver should be at hand. The operator stands facing the patient and on his right side. This is better than leaning over the face as some do. The different parts of the windpipe should be traced and the position of the cricoid carefully noted. In very young children the th3'roid cartilage cannot be recognised. The incision is begun chtse to that cartilage and con- tinued downwards for an inch and a half or more, according to the length of the patient's neck and the depth of the tube from the surface. This in- cision may be made in the ordinary way, or the skin may be pinched up by'the left hand of the surgeon and the assistant and so divided. This latter method is a good one, as it enables a greater depth to be reached at once with less chance of dividing the veins. The utmost care should be taken to keep the middle line, but it is unnecessary to mark it before beginning by applying any aiustic or other agent to the skin. Careful sponging of the cut surface, and retraction where necessary by appropriate hooks, is to be attended to by the second assistant, but such retraction must throughout the operation be very steadily, evenlj', and judiciously ap- plied, otherwise the centre line will be lost, and the operator inconnnoded and not aided. The dissection passes between the pra3-tracheal muscles, all vessels which are observed being avoided if possible, and those which are cut bemg, if necessary, secured either by ligature, or with a small bull-dog forceps, or twisted, or the pressure of the assistant's finger applied. If the exigencies of tlie case are not such as to render such a proceeding impossible, the operator should be in no hurry, but use great caution. It is very de^irabIe to save the patient's blood, as economising his strength and so improving his chances of recover}-. It is true that the most effectual means of arresting the venous bleeding is to re- establish the respiration, the embarrassment of which is the cause of the congestion of the vessels, and it is also probably true that the danger of siiftbcation by the passing of blood into the trachea after it h.is been opened has been much exaggerated, as it i3 J