INJURIES OF THE. 724 THORAX, they occasioned has caused a careful examination to be made, which has led to their discovery. Occa- sionally they have not been found till after death. When a foreign body falls into the pleural cavity it usually sets up violent inflammation, followed by the establishment of empycema and hectic fever. Such cases are extremely dangerous and commonly fatal from the difficulty which attends the removal of the bod}'. The absence of any indication of wound of tiie lung will usually enable us, along with the positive evidence of penetration, and the irri- tation and inflammation set up, to determine what the nature of the accident is. The passage of balls round the chest, either externally or within, is not seen, or at least only to a very limited ex- tent, in modern warfare, where conical balls and powerful firearms are used. If sinuses are formed in this way in the thoracic walls they should be laid open and the wound allowed to granulate. It is an old observation how violent a trepidation frequently seizes on those who in battle, and more especially in duels, receive wounds in the chest; and it is well to remember that this is seen, not alone when the thorax has been penetrated, or a severe injury inflicted, but also when even trivial lesions of the parietes have been sustained. (d) Injuries to the mammary gland demand no special notice, and (e) emphysema will be afterwards treated of. Penetrating wounds of the chest are chiefly im- portant on accoimt of the complications which may attend them. Several of these complications have been already sufficiently considered. It is possible for the parietes to be perforated and none of the viscera to suffer, but there is always the greatest risk that in penetrating wounds the lungs, pericardium, or heart will sustain grave injurj'. The anterior mediastinum has been traversed from side to side behind the sternum, and no immediate evil has followed, but the inflammation, diffuse suppuration, and risk of purulent infection after- wards, renders all such accidents most dangerous. When any of the contained viscera are wounded we may have shock, haemorrhage, pneumo-thorax, or collapse of the lung to deal with in the primary period, and inflammation and its consequences in the secondary. The danger for the first three days is chiefly from bleeding, and after that from inflammatory action. It has just been said that the pleura may in ex- ceptional cases be opened and the lung escape injury. It is in incised wounds that this is most apt to occur, and it is difficult to be able to verify its occurrence. It is chiefly by the absence of those signs which indicate a lesion of the internal organs that we conclude they have escaped. We never probe chest wounds, and thus our judgment must be founded on considerations which were before alluded to, viz. the nature of the weapon, the extent and direction of the wound, the force with which it was inflicted, the marks on the blade, the relative posi- tion of the assailant and the wounded man, and the effects which follow. It is by a careful weighing of such points that we mainly determine the question whether the wound has penetrated. In many cases it must be obvious that all the sources of opinion above mentioned may not be accessible, and when obtainable may not be such as to command confidence. Occasionally, when the case is obscure, we prefer remaining in doubt to employing methods of investigation which may be attended with injury to the patient. We never inject fluids now-a-days into wcunds of the chest, as a means of diagnosis, nor do we cause the patient to try and force air outwards through the wound when we fear his lungs have been pene- trated, both because the deductions therefrom are of no practical value, and their application maybe highly injurious. It must, then, be allowed, that our means of recognising wounds penetrating the chest are not such as to put the question alwaj-g beyond doubt, yet in most cases a combination of several of the following signs renders our diagnosis of a wound penetrating the thorax and injuring the limg sufficiently clear. (1) Shock. This may be verj' severe if the woimd is deep or extensive and the haemorrhage violent, yet it is occasionally little marked when the pulmonary substance has been wounded. (2) Iloenwrrliage. If a considerable blood-vessel is opened blood may rapidly escape, and it will in a great measure depend on the character of the wound as to freedom outwardly, whether it is ef- fused into the lung itself (causing its condensation), accumulate in the thoracic cavity (giving rise to h£Emo-thorax),or become infiltrated into the cellular tissue of the thoracic wall, or be expelled by the external wound. It may also be to a great extent expectorated, and that from the commencement of the case. It should, however, be remembered that hcemoptysis, as a sign of wounded lung, is not by any means reliable. It may be present, appearing early and freely, without the lung being wounded at all; and it may not appear, and yet the pulmo- nary tissue may have been penetrated. Haemoptysis is chiefly important when it is combined with the escape of blood by the external wound. When the blood does not gain free exit, it may filter dowm into the cellular tissue and cause discoloration of the loins. This was at one time supposed to be pathognomonic of haemorrhage into the chest, but this view is no longer held. ( 3) Escape of air. This may be by the mouth, mixed with the blood and causing it to be frothy; or into the substance of the lung, giving rise to pulmonary emphysema ; or into the pleuralcavitj', establishing pneumo-thorax; or into the parietal cellular tissue, causing external emphysema; or it may be blown out of the wound itself. That no air escapes, then, by the wound is evidently no proof that the lung has escaped penetration, and a further consideration will show that its occurrence does not establish the fact that the lung substance has been pierced, as the air may simply enter the thorax at each inspiration through the wound in the chest walls, and be expelled again during ex- piration. If, however, care be taken to close the wound effectually during inspiration, and air escape freely and in volumes during expiration, then the evidence it affords of penetration is most valuable. It is when we have to deal with a narrow parietal and a free pulmonary wound that we are most apt to have air accumulating in the chest and cellular tissue. Emphysema of the parietes may occur with- out any implication of the lung; and pneumo-thorax may also arise when the lung is unhurt, if the wound of the chest wall be vahmlar, so that air is drawn in during inspiration, but not removed again during expiration. , , . i „ (3) Dvs,wa:a is usually well m.arked in lung wounds. If the opening is free and direct into the chest the lung frequently, though by no means