NEURALGIA The treatment in this class of cases will of course be directed to the restoration of healthy action of the uterine organs, 351 — to checking the leucorrhcea if it exists, or the re-establishment of the catamenia if they are suppressed. The pain may however, if severe, be at once met by local measures, the most effectual of which will be found the subcutaneous injection of about a quarter of a grain of morphia. 3. Arlicidar Neuralgia.—This must not be con- foiuided with rheumatic, inflammatory, or gouty pains of the joints; there is no appreciable or ma- terial lesion to account for the pain,—still it may occur in people who have, or may have had, rheumatic or gouty joints. Disease of the hip will constantly cause even severe pain in the knee-joint,—such pain may be explained by the pressure upon or irritation of the nerve ; but the true articular neuralgia is more frequently due to a neuralgic or hysterical condi- tion of the body. These pains may be emotional, due to or augmented by a concentration of the patient's mind upon the part. The distinctions between this affection and pain from local mischief, are the lesser amount (if any) of swelling and deep tenderness—for there may be both m articular neuralgia, whilst superficial ten- derness is exaggerated; and the complication of spas- modic movements of the joint, except during sleep. The patient is most likely a female whose cata- menia are irregular or deficient. 4. Calculous Ntphralgia.—Here there is a direct cause for the pain, often of an agonizing nature. It IS due to the passage of a calculus along the ureter. The severe pain, the vomiting, and other symptoms subside as soon as the calculus has reached the bladder. Neuralgia ofihe testes is usually due to a disor- dered state of some of the viscera; it may alternate or coexist with neuralgia of other parts. The hypodermic injection of morphia will rapidly re- move the pain, and also greatly relieve the patient during the passage of calculi. Tonics, antacids, and alteratives may then be employed. The same remarks apply to neuralgia about the neck of the bladder. Neuralgia of the redum is severe shooting or other pain affecting the lower bowel, but not due to fissure, to piles, or any discoverable cause. I have seen it last for years, alternating with neu- ralgia and spasm of the bladder, defying all treatment. Mild forms will yield to tonic" and alterative treatment, with occasional anodynes. Neuralgia of the spina is a nervous affection, chiefly occurring in women having an hysterical diathesis. No actual lesion of the spine will be found, no thickening of the spine as in caries. If it is complicated with hysterical paraplegia, which 18 not uncommon, the diagnosis between it and caries is more difficult. The treatment is the same as for other affections of an hysterical nature. Traumatic Neuralgia may arise from local in- jury, or occur in the course of surgical operations. It may be due to—1, pressure on the nerve ; 2, partial or entire division of it ; 3, a foreign body in the substance of it. When followiiig amputation of a limb, the pain is often as distressing as it is diflicult to subdue. Downing thinks the pain may arise " from a fixed half-cut nervous fibril, which is excited to action by the motion of the limb ; from a nervous trunk or fibril compressed by the contracting cicatrix, or against the shaft of he bone; or by the hardening of the lymph in the bulbous extremity ; and lastly, tlirough spicula of bono running into, or osseous deposit taking place in, a nervous branch." The treatment most successful is that of anodynes or sedatives, as by lotions and poultices to the part. It is seldom that medicines given by the mouth afford more than very temporary relief. The most eftectual relief is afforded by injecting morphia into the neighbourhood of the cicatrix. Atropine will sometimes be even more effectual, quickly removing the morbid sensibilit)'. "When nothing else succeeds, the reopening of the cicatrix has been had recourse to. For further remarks on this head, see article Stump. Cause*.—Neuralgia may be produced by causes operating from within or from without the body. The chief.predisposing causes are a nervous or melancholic temperament; an hysterical, rheu- matic, or gouty diathesis; irregularity in females of the catamenia; damp and cold atmosphere, exhaus- tion of the system from fever or long illness, prolonged lactation, excess of mental application, or excesses of any kind producing a drain upon the system, mental anxiety, &c. The exciting causes may be general or local ; the general are such as may produce neuralgia of any part of the body. Moral emotions of a powerful kind, such as anxiety, long watching, &c.. Malaria, damp and cold, are I believe, how- ever, far more frequent causes; frequent exposure to wet, sitting in damp clothes, being too thinly clad in cold weather, constantly passing from hot to cold rooms, are among the causes which most frequently excite neuralgic attacks. Neuralgia may be due to centric or excentric causes. Local affections may be the cause. Thus severe pain in the testicle may arise from a calculus m the ureter. Diseases affecting the brain—such as tumours within the brain, or exostoses of the skull—are among the most serious centric causes ; they may produce the most inveterate neuralgia, for which little can be done. Local injuries may cause neuralgia, either by wounding and so irritating a nerve, as by a spiculum of bone, or by pressure^ or by stretching a nerve; such neuralgia has a direct cause. Or another distant nerve may be affected \yith reflex neuralgia : an instance of this kind is given, in which ticj douloureux of the face resulted from the lodgment of a bit of a bullet in the radial nerve. As regards the jyathological condition of the nerves in neuralgia, there is little to be said. In by far the largest majority of cases the nerve has no actual disease in it. The pain in the nerve >is a symptom of a real morbid or pathological condi- tion, which the nerve manifests through the direct or indirect irritation it receives. These causes may be—1st, local, as above described, in which case actual irritation of or pressure upon nerve- matter exists; 2ndl3-, iiijlammatory or congestive— a. Either the vessels or sheath of the nerves themselves, giving rise to effusion of inflamma- tory plasma, or of pus. These cases are the exoep- tion3,a3 most neuralgic nerves show no morbid signs. l>. Of the cerebrum, as observed in certain cases which have terminated fatally in palsy and apo- plexy. (Copland.) c. Spinal, in which thoi'o is some local inflam- matory action of the spinal chord and its membranes.