SCROTUM, CANCER OP. " Other people, tesides cliimney-sweepers (saj-s Pott), have cancers of the same part ; and so have others, besides lead-workers, the Poictou colic, and the consequent paralysis: but it is nevertheless a disease to which they are peculiarly liable; and so are chimney-sweepers to the cancer of the scrotum and testicles." Workmen, exposed to the fumes of arsenic, are said to be liable to a cancerous disease of the scrotum, resembling that which infests chimney- sweepers. This is particularly the case with the smelters in Cornwall. (See Faris's Pharmaco- logia, p. 89, vol. ii. ed. 5.) If the two diseases are precisely similar, the fact is particularly interesting with regard to the cause of the complaint, which has been referred to the irritation of soot, and this alone, in a supposed peculiar condition of consti- tution, not defined, nor indeed at all understood. From the great number of persons who pursue the occupation of sweeping chimneys, and the comparatively few affected by the application of soot, " it would appear, that there is something either in the constitution, or the parts of some in- dividuals, which disposes to its production. I am inclined to believe (Sir Astley Cooper adds), that it depends more upon local circumstances, than upon the constitution, because the subjects of it ap- pear to be very healthy at the dawn of the disease, although they lose that health in the progress of the complaint." {On Bis. of t/ie Testis, p. 229.) Mr. Pott describes the disease as alwa}'3 begin- ning at the lower part of the scrotum : but there are exceptions. Sir James Earle has recorded an instance of its occurrence on the wrist of a gar- dener, who had been employed in distributing soot lor the destruction of slugs; and some cases have taken place on the face. (//. Earle, in Med. CIdr. Trans, vol. xii. p. 297.) Sir Astley Cooper has seen it on the face of an old person, whose cheeks were full of wrinkles, calculated to afford a lodgment for soot. Mr. Keate met with a simi- lar case. One circumstance is noticed by Mr. Earle, which, if it prove generally correct, mate- rially influences the prognosis and treatment: he says, " The inguinal glands are often enlarged, but they will generally subside on the removal of the diseased scrotum; clearly proving that the disease is not commonly communicated in the course of the absorbents." (P. 298.) He knows only one ex- ception to this statement; a case, where a bubo formed, suppurated, and assumed the same charac- ters, as the primary affection in the scrotum. Ac- cording to Mr. Travers, the lymphatic glands are seldom specifically affected. {Med. C/iir. Tram. vol. xvii. p. 345.) If there be any chance of putting a stop to, or preventing this mischief, says Mr. Pott, it must be by the immediate removal of the part affected; namely, that part of the scrotum where the sore is; for, if it be suffered to remain until the testicle is affected, it is generally too late even for castra- tion. " I have many times made the experiment; but though the sores, after such operation, have, in some instances, healed kindly, and the patients have gone from the hospital seemingly well, yet, in the space of a few month?, it has generally hap- pened, that they havo returned either with the same disease in the other testicle, or in the glands of the groin, or with such wan complexions, such pale leaden countenances, such a total loss of Strength, and such frequent and acute interna! pains, 565: as have sufficiently proved a diseased state of some of the viscera, and which have soon been followed by a painful death." {Poll.) Mr. Travers's prognosis is less encouraging, for, says he, " The disease returns after extensive re- moval." That it does so sometimes is unquestion- able; but that it does so always, is not what my experience teaches me. Some of Mr. Travers's patients appear to have fallen victims, not to a re- turn of the disease itself, but to scrofulous tuber- cles of the lungs, or peritoneum. (See Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xvii. pp. 345, 346.) Mr. Earle concurs with Sir Astley Cooper, that no topical applications, nor internal medicines, have the slightest influence over the disease. The scalpel, he says, is the only resource; and it may be employed with confidence, provided the whole of the diseased mass can be removed. Even when the inguinal glands are enlarged, he inculcates the same practice. Also, when the testicle is affected, provided the spermatic chord is sound, he con- ceives, that it is right to give the patient the chance of recovering; and, notwithstanding the discourag- ing results of Mr. Pott's operations in this stage of the disease, he has known the attempt succeed in two cases, in which no relapse had happened several years afterwards. Sir Astley Cooper does not consider enlarged glands in the groin a positive prohibition of the ope- ration, " as they are sometimes increased from sim- ple irritation only; and, as the removal of a portion of the scrotum is little painful, soon performed, and unattended with danger, the patient should have this chance of recovery given him. If the tunica vaginalis participate in the disease, it will require great care in its removal to prevent injuring of the testis." {Op. cit. p. 230.) The following case, which was under my care m University College Hospital, is replete with in- struction. Frederick Leith, admitted September26, 1837; a married chimney-sweeper, aged twent3'- three, and of very intemperate habits. About five years prior to this date, he noticed a small pimple, or wart, on the anterior part of the scrotum, accom- panied by intense itching, which obliged him fre- quently to scratch the part. The little wart-like induration increased considerably in size, and in * two years ulcerated. The ulceration proceeded slowly, till about nine months before his admission into the hospital, when, happening to place him- self under the care of a practitioner, who suspected the disease to be syphilitic, he was severely snli- vated, and the ulcer then began to enlarge, and continued to do so down to the time of his couiina under my notice. At this period, the folfowinl circumstances were remarked. A large irregular ulcer was seen at the lower and niitwiot part of the scrotum, with elevated, hard, and red mar- gins, which were in some parts very thick. The centre of it was occupied by a foul adherenli greenish slough. The ulcer discharged copiously a thin, purulent, offensive fluid. The rest of the scrotum was hot, rod, aad somewhat swollen, and at several points little Aesliy excrescences were seen, which the patient snid resembled that which had changed into this foul, ill-conditioned ulcer. There was much itching and burning felt, and occa- sionally an acute lancinating pain was experienced which however did not extend to the groin! I'he spermatic chords were free from induration' and the testes were sound; and, though soma