VISION, 1000 At the yellow spot, <a more persistent retinal im- pression fades away gradually in some, witli inter- mission in ^ otliera, while in the more peripheral parts of the retina it always disappears by inter- luissions, i.e., it disappears, tlien suddenly re-ap- pears somewhat fainter, and so on. In some morbid changes of the visual apparatus, the persistence of retinal impressions has been known to continue for days and weeks, and to return whenever the patient's thoughts have re- verted to the objects of the impressions. Binoc^dar vision.—By binocular vision, i.e., by vision with both eyes at the same time, we ob- tain :—■ 1. A larger field of vision. The inner (nasal) half of one retina perceives objects which are not seen simultaneously by the inner half of the fellow retina. 2. A better idea of the bodilj' forms of objects (each eye viewing the same object from different sides) and of the rate of motion, especially of those objects which recede from or approach the eyes. A difference in the shape and with it a differ- ence in the refraction of the two eyes, if exceeding certain limits, disturbs binocular vision, and that eye is used with which at the required distance vision is most acute. For superficial observation of objects, especially if the power of converging the eyes is well developed, binocular vision may exist even with great differences of refraction. Protrusion of one eye, or differences of size be- tween the two eyes, within certain limits, cause an object placed at tha same distance from both eyes, to appear smaller to one, i.e. to the less prominent eye, because the crossing point of the rays in the eye lies nearer the retina ; and larger to the other, i.e. to the more prominent eye, through the cross- ing point being situated further from the retina. With both eyes open, the object appears of a size which is the medium between that which it would appear to one eye and that it would appear to the other. Binocular vision is lost, in •onsequence of changes which impair vision of one ej^e only, and also through strabismus. The ex- istence of binocular vision is established by alter- nately covering each eye during reading, when the uncovered eye should continue to read ; or hy placing a prism before one eye, with the refracting angle upwards, when diplopia should appear with the double image, possessing the same distinctness as the true one. If binocular vision is absent we should never neglect examining the defective eye, and by practice we should increase its acuteness of vision. Combined vision, though it be no more binocular, exists if the two eyes assist each other, e.g. in judging of the shape, distance, &c. of an object, as is the case if a cataract has been removed from one eye ; though there be differences in the dis- tinctness and sizes of the images formed in each retina, yet the field of vision remains undisturbed and the Ivnictions of both retinas are maintained in greater perfection. In niyops operated upon for cataract in one eye, it occasionally happens that the eye operated upon is used for viewing distant objects and the other for reading. Vision with one eye.—The sensation of muscu- lar action experienced during accommodation, and' during convergence (especially if the other eye is iiot destroyed), is the only means by which one eye can judge of the sizes, distances, and shape of objects. Assistance is affjrded in this, by the nitvements of the head and body. Anow.\lie8 op Vision. The anomalies of vision, independent of those arising from disturbances caused by the " appen- dages of the eyeball," the eyelids, lacrymal appa- ratus, and conjunctiva, are at present subdivided into those which are the result of anomalies (1) of the refracting surfaces ; (2) of the transparent media ; (3) of the parts concerned in accommoda- tion ; (4) of the retina ; (6) of the optic nerve or brain. A short recapitulation of the numerous terms which were in use to designate the different kinds of impaired vision, previously to enlarging upon this classification, is necessary, together with aa indication as to where the explanation of such terms may be found. Many of these terms are still employed, others are used in different or less restricted senses. (A) Lesions of the power of recognising the positions, distances, forms, and rates of motion of objects. The patient states :— 1. ''That he cannot recognise objects, situated at some distance, and that to read &c. he has to hold the type close." (See Myopia at the end of this article. See also Presbyopia.) 2. " That he can see well at a distance but has difficulty in recognising objects when held near." (See Hypennatroina.) 3. '■ That with both eyes open he sees double " (this is diplopia). 4. " That with, one eye alone he sees double, treble, &c." (this is pol3'opia monscularis). 5. " That objects seen with one or with both eyes appear too small " (this is termed mikropia, and is frequently observed during anomalies of accommodation or sudden changes in the position of the crystalline lens). 6. " That objects seen with one or both eyes appear too large " (this condition is termed mega- lopia). The causes are similar to those just stated, but act in an opposite direction. 7. "That an object can only be recognieed by rolling the eye about or holding the object side- ways." Corneal opacities and lesions of the yellow spot have been observed among other causes. 8. " That objects appear distorted, bent, &c." (metamorphopsia). Anomalies of the light-refract- ing parts, and lesions of the retina or brain may be the causes. 9 " That only half or part of an object can be seen." (See Heniiopia and Scotoma.) 10. " That objects which are at rest appear in motion." (See Paralysis and Pai-esis.) 11. "That the distance of an object is judged wrongly, or cannot be determined at all." The usual causes are :—sudden loss of one eye ; the use of spectacles for going about, bj' persons advanced in age who have not worn any before ; the use of spectacles by those who have been operated upon fur cataract ; paresis and paralysis of the muscles which come into play during accommodation. 12. "That he is obliged to look for some time before he can recognise an object" (= slow vision). This symptom is connected with lesions of the retina, optic nerve, or brain. 13. "That objects can be seen standing be- fore the eyes for some time after they are closed