204 LITHOTOMY. mode of operating, they cannot, assured!)', be attributed to slow dilatation; because Dr. de Bursa informs us that he usually extracted the stone in about a minute after having made the opening into the urethra. Modern Median or AUartoil's Operation.—In 1840, Mr. AUarton, who was unacquainted with the operations of Munzoni and De Borsa, extracted a calculus by a method of which slow dilatation is the principal feature; and, since then, the operation has been often repeated. The following is Mr. Allarton's description of this operation;— 1| " I introduce a grooved staff in the usual man- ner, and of the usual size, and confide it to an assistant, with directions to keep it perpendicular, and hooked up against the pubes; I then introduce the index finger of my left hand into the rectum, placing its extremity in contact with the staff, as it occupies the prostate, and press it firmly against the staff, so as to steady it; then, with a sharp- pointed straight knife, with tolerably long and rough handle, I pierce the perineum in the middle line, about half an inch .above the anus, or at such distance as may appear necessary to avoid dividing the fibres of the external sphincter; I carry the knife steadily and firmly on, till it strikes the groove of the staflj the deep sphincter lying between the knife and the directing finger, which enables me to judge of the distance as the knife passes along.' If the incision be not made exactly in the median line, the contracting fibres of the injured muscles draw the point of the knife from its direct line, and interfere with the accuracy of striking the staff; hence the advantage of the long rough-handled knifo, which affords a firmer hold and better purchase. Having struck the groove of the staff, I move the point of the knife along the groove towards the bladder a few lines, and theri withdraw it, cutting upwards, so as to leave an external incision of from three-quarters of an inch to one and a half inches, according to the presumed size of the stone; the escape of urine indicates the entrance to the urethra. I then introduce a long ball-pointed probe or wire through the external opening into the groove of the staff, and slide it into the blaJder, to sufficient depth to insure its safe lodgment in that viscus, and withdraw the stafi: I then well grease the index finger of the left hand, and pass it along the probe, with a semi-rotatory motion, through the prostate into the bladder; which procedure is achieved without difficulty, and when the stone is free it comes at once into contact with the finger, and, if of mode- rate size, passes at once into the wound on with- drawing the finger, the patient having power to strain upon, and thereby facilitate, the extraction of the stone." {Lithotomy Simplified, etc., by George AUarton, London, 1854, p. '22.) It would appear from the history of the cases published by Mr. AUarton, that when the stone is small, little or no dilatation of the internal wound is required ; one case, indeed, is described ns having been terminated in a few seconds; and in the two other cases no artificial dilatation of any kind was had recourse to. Mr. Teale, of Leeds, has published sonre useful observations on this method, in the Medical Times (Dec. 10th, 1059). According to Mr. Teale, the operation had been performed in Leeds, at the time of his publication (December 1st, 1869) in 23 cases; of which 20 recovered, and 3 died. Fifteen operations were performed on adults, re- sulting in 13 recoveries and 2 deaths. Mr. Teale considers that, in children, the left forefing^er is the best dilator. As the aperture is necessarily the size of the finger which produces it, if the stone be large some other dilating power must be employed in addition to the dilating effect of the forceps and stone combined; for this purpose Weiss's three-hladed female dilator, Arnott's hy- draulic dilator, or, what is at once ready and effective, the addition of the vulcanized india- rubber finger stalls, one over another, imtil the finger is sufficiently enlarged for the purpose, the outer covering being well lubricated with lard be- fore being introduced. But Arnott's dilator, where it can be procured, is by far the most efficacious, though not the most expeditious means. Should the stone be of unusual size, it may be broken by a short, strong, and straight lithotrite, or by a strong and suitable pair of forceps closed by a screw, if the stone be soft and yielding. Mr. Teale is disposed, both from his own expe- rience and from the results of the operations which he has witnessed, to judge favourably of Mr. Allarton's method. The incisions are made readily and without danger. In children, however, some difficulty may be found in sufficiently dividing the mem- branous part of the urethra, and the fibrous struc- ture which it traverses; unless these parts be sufficiently divided, the surgeon may experience some difficulty in passing the fingers through the prostate; and hence he recommends the use of a beaked guide, as a more certain means of directing the finger than the bulb probe of Mr. AUarton. A dilator intended to effect the same object has been invented by Mr. Bowman. {Medical Times, December 17, 1869, p. 614.) Mr. Teale, as becomes a prudent and scientific practitioner, has not passed any final judgment on this operation, because a more prolonged and varied experience of the median is required to determine its merits. As regards the question between dila- tation and laceration of the prostate, Mr. Teale thinks it probable that in the living body, the pro- cess which suffices for the extraction of a stone of moderate size, is one of simple dilatation; and that, in the case of a large stone, it is attended with some solution of continuity, both of the mucous membrane and of the proper structure of the pros- tate. The median operation also, according to Mr. Teale's opinion, is just as applicable to the e.x- traction of large stones as the lateral operation, provided that the resistance afforded by tense perineal fibres be relieved by gently touching them with the knife. Some surgeons state that the operation is nearly bloodless, but, according to Mr. Teale's experience, the bleeding in most instances .it the time of the operation was about the same as in lateral litho- tomy, although the subsequent draining was much less. Mr. Erichsen states that he has found it advan- tageous to modify, in one or two points, the operation as described by Mr. AUarton. Instead of the ordinary staff he employe a rec- tangular one, grooved from about one inch above the elbow nearly to the point, resembling (in fiict) the rectangular staff of Dr. Buchanan. The advantages obtained by the use of this instrument are, that when