809 ULCERS. Surface: Ashy grey; sometimes red and raw, sometimes sloughy. Llniiadations : May be altogether absent, but if present then they are turgid, and tend to bleed wiien touched. They are sometimes exuberant," i.e. in excess, large, red, and prominent. Discharge: Profuse; thin; often bloody and acrid. Seiisiiiveness: Augmented ; sometimes greatly so, especially when limb is dependent. There may be much pain of a burning, stinging, gnawing, or boring character, which is much complained of. Surrounding Parts: Red, inflamed, and irri- table ; frequently oedematous, so that they pit on pressure. Sometimes they are dark red and swelled, the capillary vessels refilling quickly when they have been emptied by pressure. Occa- sionally the neighbouring parts are eczematous, cracked, and itchy, exuding a thin or sticky dis- charge from the vesicles, and being very chronic and difficult to cure. Sometimes the redness is erysipeloid. When sloughing or phagedaena attacks ulcers, they spread with much rapidity, and the dead tissue forms a greater or less covering to the sore. It is probably in syphilitic ulcers that sloughing is most common, very possibly from the habits and condition of health of the persons in whom these sores are commonly seen. A combination of syphilis, scrofula, and intemperance will very strongly increase the tendency to sloughing of the worst kind. The term "irritable " or " neuralgic " again is applied to a sore frequently met with in weakly, delicate females at the middle period of life, with a more or less varicose state of veins on account of tlie extreme pain which they occasion—a pain which is not explicable by any visible condition of the sore, which is often small and insigniiicant enough. It is commonly placed at or close above the ankle, or in front of the tibia, and rarely exhibits signs of inflammatory action. The surface is brick- coloured for the most part, but may be glazed and marked by bright specks. The discharge is thin and scanty, the edges irregular, and the surrounding parts dark and congested, or tolerably healthy. It is the pain which is the leading and characteristic feature. It is doubtless considerable, and the ex- pression of that suffering loses nothing in the narration of the patient. The " fungous," " exuberant," and ''(sdematous " ulcers present excessive, prominent, soft granida- tions, which bleed on the least touch, or even spon- taneously. They occur in weak, debilitated persons, especially those of lymphatic temperament, and frequently result from the prolonged use of sod- deiiing applications. Ulcers failing to heal from excess of action chiefly occur on the leg, and in persons of weak and irritable condition of body, those of full habit who are tipplers, in the poverty-stricken, in the feeble, over-worked and under-fed, and in women at the change of life. III. Ulcers failing to heal from defect of action are tlie most common of all ulcers. This "defect"' may depend on local or constitutinnal causes. It is frequently directly referrible to bad hygienic conditions, or to the cause which originally occasioned the ulcer to form, or it may he aolel'v due to its long continuance or to its had manage- ment. Ulcers which have remained long open, or which have been much poulticed or had emol- lient applications long applied, or which occur in parts that have had their vitality impaired by in- jury or previous morbid action, are apt to assume the features of this class. It is on the leg near the ankle that these sores are usually met with, but they are not infrequent on other parts, as the fingers and toes in persons of weak circulation. Weak, thin old men often present the worst types of ulcers of this class ; and while in size these sores vary greatly, yet in such persons they are occa- sionally so large as to surround the leg. Under the general designation of ulcers failing to heal from defect of action rank the following va- rieties :—"Weak," "atonic," " cachectic," "cold," "senile," "chronic," " languid," " mucous," " slug- gish," "indolent," "callous," and one form of " oedematous." Shape! Various, but generally oval or round ; often " punched-out" looking. Depth: Varies; sometimes deep and concave; sometimes shallow and flat ; sometimes elevated. Edges : Frequently well defined ; elevated ; often overlaid with dense white epidermis ; thick, white, dead-looking, or thin, flat, smooth, and glazed. Occasionally they are depressed, inverted, or everted. Sometimes these sores slowly spread in one direction while they heal in another; more often they have been long quite stationary. Surface : Pale, cheesy, brown or pink, and for the most part firmly bound to the underlying parts. Granulations : Often absent, or greatly defective in quantity and unhealthy in quality. They may be large, but they are flabby, flat, or bulbous in shape, semi-translucent, pale, or turgid with dark blood. Discharge: Scanty, thin, gleety, serous, or bloody ; sometimes foetid and viscid. Sensitiveness: None ; painless, callous. Surrou?idi7ig Parts ; Soft, oedematous, passively congested, sodden, discoloured, but frequently hard, bound down ; smooth, shining, and varnished; occasionally dry, scaly, shrivelled, brown, and' eczematous. The " weak " ulcer is that which wants power to cicatrise. It presents large raised flabby granula- tions, which are either pale, gelatinous and waterv, or turgid with dark blood. Its edges are flat, smooth, and often glazed, and the discharge pale, thin, serous, and often profuse. They are situated on the leg of weak, ill-fed, and badly-housed per- sons of low vital power, and are not uncommonly in a great measure due to the prolonged use of relaxing applications. The " callous,"-or "indolent," or "chronic" sore, again, is of very frequent occurrence. Boyer defined it as an "ulcer whose bottom (surface) edges and surrounding parts were hard, and in a constant state of chronic inflammation." Ulcers which from any cause have long kept open are apt to assume this character. It is in middle-aged men, and near the ankle, that they are usually seen, especially in those following a laborious oc- cupation. They are often deep, scooped-out, or flat, pale, smooth, regularly-shapod sores, with few or im granulations; a scanty, thin, ill-smelling dis- charge; thick, leathery white, abrupt edges, and usually quite |)aii.less. The siu'rounding parts nru glazed, hard, and bound closely to the underlv- ing structures, and they are often congested and