1012 VISION. nectivc tissue whicli intervenes between the nerve and its sheath does not oppose the distension. The tunics adjoining the " crescent" also becona- distended. The optic disc, as a rnle, appears smaller than that of the emmetropic eye. The curvature oHts surface on the side adjoining the " crescent" is flat, or may be cupped. It is unusually convex on the opposite side. The shape of the disc is fre- quently oval, the- long axis of the oval being verti- cal. The optic disc may in reality be round, but appear oval; 1. If through great distension ot the tnnics and of the attachments of the disc, it is much displaced towards the inner wall of tlie orbit. It is then seen more sideways when viewed, e.g., with the ophthalmoscope. 2. If the choroid and retina, opposite the distended mar- gins, encroach upon the disc. The optic disc xarely has the natural pink colour throughout. It often is too red (a hyperaemia which generally accompanies rapidly progressing myopia), or it has u greyish-pink colour. Frequently we find that portion of the optic disc ansemic which joins the most distended and atrophic part of the tnnics, ■while the rest of the disc has a pink colour. The Tessels of the retina, where they pass through the optic disc, are rarely quite like those of the emme- tropic eye. Tiiey are too numerous in rapidly increasing myopia. The veins are tortuous and full. In all cases, their course differs in the more distended from that in other parts of the optic disc and retina. In the distended parts of the retina they stand further apart, and follow the curvature of that tunic. If the boundary of the distended part is abrnpt, their abrupt curve from it upon the more normally curved parts of the letina is very conspicuous. The region of the yellow spot is not only dis- tended, but also somewhat displaced towards the inner wall of the orbit. The distension, as round the optic disc, is accompanied by changes ol structure (atrophic changes). These are most conspicuous in the choroid. The many ap- parent varieties of atrophy chiefly depend on the tint of the pigment and an the degree of dis- tension. Irregular light and dark brown spots (groups ot stellate pigment cells), bright red or whitish spots, and in extreme cases, well-defined white spots or fissures (transparent portions of choroid, devoid of blood and pigment) may be found. In rare cases we find the atrophic changes far advanced and well marked in tiiis region, while round the optic di!,c they are less conspicuous, or separated iron' the disc by a more healthy-looking portion Generally, however, the atrophy at the outer margin of the optic disc merges into that of the region of the yellow spot, where it is less conspicu- ous through the choroid being more richly pig- mented. Degree of Mi/opia.—Myo^\c persons see dis tinctly only at a certain distance. The further the retina lies from the cornea and lens (from the dioptric system) the shorter is that distance, i.e. tlie nearer the eyes lies the furthest point of dis- tinct vision. Beyond that distance objects appear confused, or are not visible at all. The degree of myopia is known if the distnnce (= 11) of the furthest point of distinct vision (= r) from the nodal point (from the point within the eye where the refracted rays cross each other) is known. If the furthest jioi'nt of distinct vision lies at 10 inches, the myopia is = -^jyth ; if it lies at 5 inches, the myopia is = |di, &c. To determine the furthest point of distinct vision accurately we make use of concave lenses. The rays which come from objects situated at the furthest point of distinct vision are still suffi- ciently divergent, after refraction by the cornea and lens, to be brought to a focus in the retina. Raya of less divergence, i.e. coming from objects 'urther distant than the furthest point of distinct vision, must, by the aid of some concave lens, be made more divergent, to bring them to a focus in the retina. The weakest concave lens, which give sufficient divergence to parallel rays (i.e. to rays from very distant objects) to cause them after refraction by the eye to be brought to a focus in the retina, expresses the degree of myopia. To find this lens quickly, we ascertain the furthest point at which the patient can read ordinary type. Suppose he reads type No. 1. at 10 inches and not further, we try No. 10 concave ; if he reads No. 1 at 5 inches, we try No. 5 concave, &c. This lens, or one a little stronger or a little weaker, is as a rule the one which improves vision for distance most. We try both eyes at the same time, if both are equally myopic. If one eye is more myopic, we must find the concave lens which exactly suits each eye separately, beginning with the least myopic eye. If, with the concave lens, the patient spells the .etters of No. 20 at 20 feet, of No. 40 at 40 feet, &c., we have not only ascertained the degree of the myopia, but also the acuteness of vision for distance. Very often in high degrees of nivopia the acuteness of vision is imperfect. "a myopia of -^ih (= M -Jgth) means a myopic eye which requires a concave lens of 10 inches focus, for seeing at distance, as acutely as the emmetropic eye does without artificial means. The highest degree of myopia on record is one of \.2, i.e. one requiring a concave lens of a little more than 1 inch negative focal dis- tance. For practical purposes, when speaking of the treatment of myopia by spectacles, a myopia M ^th is termed one of slight degree ; a myopia of J^th one of moderate degree ; and a myopia of ith one of high degree. In the treatment of intermediate degrees of myopia (of those exceeding ith, e.g. I, or ^, and those slighter than Tj^th, e.g. or ^) we must be guided by the rules larf down for the treatment of slight, moderate, and high degrees of myopia. . . Cause a7id progress.—The cause of myopia is found in the too great distance of the retma and of the adjoining tunics from the dioptric system (from the cornea, lens, &c.). The abnormal position of the tunics is the result of distension and of m- ' creased curvature, especially round the optic ctise, ;,nd in the region of the yellow spot. Th«dimimt| tion of the natural thickness and curvature ot ine tunics is congenital. . . The eyes, like the rest of the body, increase m size up to a certain period of life. In the niyoi^-c, his is accompanied by a more or less rafia n crease of myopia, which is chiefly promoted by the natureof the work which the eyes Have perform. , >» >he During reading, and other " "W^-"'"^''' „" object has to be held close. The great convergence