INFLAMMATION In a parallel passage in his Lectures (pp. cil. vol. 1. p. 478) he says of local remedies, that unless tliey "act chemically, as caustics," they " aflFect the living principle by their stimulant or sedative qualities only." Sedatives diminish "action;" stimulants e-\-cite "natural actions." Irritants "excite new and unnatural actions." "Actions may be first of healthy parts ; secondly, action pro- duced by stimuli or irritants on healthy parts ; thirdly, action of diseased pai'ts ; fourthly, action of stimuli and irritants on a diseased part. Irri- tinls may produce very different effects on a healthy part, or whilst disease already exists: thus mercury will produce diseased action in a healthy part ; but from the application of mercury to a part already affected with diseased action, an action re- sults different to what would be produced by the application of it to a healthy part ; for from the con- joined action of the two results the action of health." Trousseau's doctrine of " substitution " is the same. Ue relates how practitioners, observing the resemblance of inflamed mucous membrane to a suppurating wound, applied to the former the caustics they were wont to apply to the latter. " It was soon perceived that the primary effects of these different agents was analogous to that pro- duced by inflammation, and it was easy to under- stand that inflammation artificially induced in tissues already the seat of inflammation led to a cure of the original inflammatory attack. When this view was once acquired, there flowed from it the great therapeutic principle of substituUon,v{\\\c\\ at present reigns supreme in medical practice." {Clinical Med. Trans, by New Sijd. Soc. vol. ii. p. 19.) The leading error in these theories is, that they take metaphysical instead of material viev/s of the .animal body, and of the substances that act upon it. In Hunter's time, as we have already said, there was a metaphysical verbiage of " action," " dispositions," " sympathies," &c., &c., to express changes which we now treat of as depending on chemical change, or on cell growth, or on the action of nerves on the diameter of blood-vessels, or on the appetite of the tissues for blood plasm." Now the "actions" of Hunter and the "inflam- mations " of Trousseau are merely names for our conceptions of certain physical changes in the animal bod}'. But the progress of science de- mands that these changes be treated of as physical, not as metaphysical. When Chicago ■was burning, they blew up houses in order to get rid of that which would have been fuel for the ad- vancing flames. To describe this, as the substitu- tion of an explosion for a conflagration, may pass as a figure of speech, but it is not a true account of matter of fact. Sn, when a practitioner swabs a relaxed throat, it is mere laziness to be content with the notion that he substitutes a caustic in- flammation for a catarrhal one. The man who is content with this may be content to prescribe hypothetical globules for conditions that exist in his own imagination ; but the man of sense will seek to know first the fact—does the application of a new cause of inflammation relieve an inflam- mation already existing ? and he will find it not to be generally true. Then, docs a caustic swab re- lieve a relaxed soro throat, and, if so, how? — and he will find plenty of answers derived from the realm of sense and fact. It curdles, kills, and [71] sweeps off a host of epithelial cells, living lazily on the relaxed membrane, and multiplying themselves like paupers to the public detriment. It thus makes way for a healthier brood. It produces an impression on the nerves, deadens extreme irri- tability, flushes out the blood-vessels, drains them of serum, and braces up muscular fibres. Here, surely, are the elements of rational therapeutics ; we need not stoop to metaphysical explanations, which only smell of the lamp or the tobacco-pipe. Having thus cautioned the student against the too literal reading of some passages of these great medical practitioners, and having spoken of special stimulants adapted to atonic local inflammations, we may shortly discuss those which are applied by the hands of the surgeon, instead of being sent the round of the circulation to be attracted by the suffering organ. The agents we are going to describe are applied to inflamed surfaces or open sores. The nitrate of silver, applied in strong solution or substance, acta as we have above described, and is useful in very irritable ulcers, as of the cornea, by deadening the surface ; in relaxed sore throats, and chronic sup- purations of mucous membranes, in incipient whit- low, irritable spreading inflammation from poisoned wound, and other cases where it is expedient to destroy a surface, and thus deaden sensibility. The carbolic acid and creosote act in like guise on irritable ulcers and mucous surfaces. We may specify the nerve exposed in teeth by cai-ies, as an example of an inflamed surface thus treated with unfailing success. The salts of lead, especially the acetate, are famed for their soothing virtues, which seem ex- plicable on the same principle. {On Effects of Lead, by Goulard, Surgeon of Montpellier, Lond, 1775.) The salts of zinc, copper, alum, iron, alumina, and vegetable astringents used as local stimulants, seem to act in the same way. The trisnitrate of bismuth in fine powder is extremely soothing to irritated and denuded surfaces of skin and mucous membrane. The blistering plaster of cantharides, applied so as to vesicate, is sometimes used to get rid of lingering erysipelas. The sixth class of remedies comprises counter- irritants, revulsives or derivatives, and neurotics and they are of two orders. Some are used as means of producing a local disease, in order to re- lieve a general state of constitutional disorder. Others are used to produce one local disturbance in order to relieve another. ' The former order were suggested by observed facts such as these. A woman, long suffering from bronchitis, loses it when she gets au ovarian tumour. A man has long been labouring under dyspepsia, disturbance of the heart, head- aches, or urinary irritation. Then comes a fit of the gout, and his general uneasiness vanishes. An- other has an itching patch of psoriasis on the small of the leg, which he gets rid of by citrine ointment. Bad health follows, ending with a fit of gout. It is assumed that the local disease in these cases re- lieves the constitution, and a ready explanation is oliered from the pathology of the day, whatever that may be. A vent is formed for the " humours " or one "action" suprrsedos another, or a " mate- ries morbi is o-xidised and discharged, or aberrant