n INFLAMMATION. though perverted, nutrition, this also invariably ilnds expression in elevation of temperature. The bodily temperature is normally about 98'5° F. in the axilla, aud a degree higher in the mouth and rectum. If it rises above 09-5° the condition is described as febrile. Even in disease temperature rarely falls below 91°. The highest temperature which has been noted in a living man isll2-5°F. This Wunderlich encountered in a man dying of tetanus. In tubercular menin- gitis of children the bodily heat may sink very low (79°) ; in a case of mania it has been rated at 77°. A gradual accumulation of heat in the body, such as occurs in individuals working in a heated atmosphere, proves fatal. This is the rationale of heat-stroke or sun-stroke. The ordinary means for keeping down the temperature—viz., evapora- tion from the surface—fails in these cases, or proves insufficient to keep down the heat, and so death ensues. The temperature in these cases usually goes on increasing after death. When, again, the surface has been cooled by a cold bath or cold water, two things take place to keep up the bodily temperature. The first of these is increased oxidative change; the second is more mechanical, for by the cold the blood is driven from the surface, and so a layer of badly conducting bodily tissue is made to intervene be- tween the warm circulating blood and the cold medium external to the surface. These facts have an important bearing on practice. It has been contended that increased lieat of a part of the body, as in inflammation, by no means implies a general elevation of temperature. Brown Sequard in his Experimental Researches (New York, 1853) declares that the temperature of the rectum is 101°, of the urine 102°, and of the heart 10S°, in health. Claude Bernard pointed out that internal organs, like the liver, normally liave a temperature of above 100°. His idea, there- fore, was that in an inflamed part, just as in a part ■whose sympathetic nerve-fibres have been divided, there is vascular relaxation and increased rapidity of circulation, thus tending to equalise the external and internal degrees of bodily heat. Marey has adopted the same view. He believes that inflam- matory heat of surface is due rather to the levelling up of its heat as compared with the internal organs than to any increase in the rate of the production of bodily heat. But it is plain that such a theory would account for nothing beyond the normal level of internal heat, and it is a matter of experience that this is frequently exceeded. So that although the theory helps us to explain tlie rapid increase ol superficial temperature iii inflamed parts, it only suffices up to a certain point. _ Originating as it does in tissue-waste, the in- creased bodily temperature in fever may be roughly compared with the increase of waste. Ihis has been made the subject of experimental investiga- tion, and the results obtained are that in pyrexia we have increased evolution of carbonic acid, and of urea : indicating increased oxidation of both the carbonaceous and nitrogenous elements o the bodv. There is of course loss of bodily weight. Hippocrates pointed it out as a bad sig.i tha some patients do not waste in disease, i lie lact is confirmed by Parkcs when he says that some febrile cases are attended with diminished cxcretum. The tissues are oxidised, hence the heat ; but not thoroughly oxidised into matters ripe for excretion. Thus the blood is loaded with unwholesome mat- ters, which perhaps cause delirium or local inflam- mation. When they have at last attained to what Hippocrates called codmi they are discharged, to the great relief of the patient, and constitute what the Fathers of Physic called CrilicolEvacuations. {Aitken, Sc. and Pr. of Med., \o\.\.) The local elevation of temperature has important bearings on the phenomena of inflammation. It favours chemical change, and the movement of liv- ing bodies. Now this chemical change, as we have said, is probably only half complete. Blood con- taining these half-consumed matters is capable of setting up pyrexia in a healthy animal, or even pyaemia, and cannot, therefore, fail to have a similar eftect on the individual in whom they are produced. For if capable of producing py- rexia de novo, a fortiori they increase it sinteusity when already set up. Again, with regard to the effects of elevated temperature on motion, it is matter of experience that elevation of temperature, within certain limits favours the motion of leucocytes. Outside the body they move most readily with a tempera- ture" of 102°—which represents fairly enough, that common in local inflammation. {J. Burden Sanderson, Lectures quoted above.) But, as has already been pointed out, these two processes are two of the most important in inflam- mation. The increased quantity of blood plasma soaking the tissues, and the increased number of leucocytes, even in those parts where normally they abound, are essential parts of the inflammatory process. And so we see they act and react on each other. The thermometer was used in practice by Boer- haave,by Boissier de Sauvages,vvho recordsarise in one case from 96° to 106-6° F. (28° to 33° R.); De Haen, who established the fact of increased heat during cold shivers, and of possible rise of heat after death; by John Hunter, Bateman, Christison, and other practitioners of the earlier part of this century. Later by Zimmerman, Traube, Aitken, Parkes, Jenner, Sydney Ringer, Edward Long Fox, W. Squire, and Spencer Wells ; but Wunderlich and Billroth, the former in relation to medicine, the latter to surgery, have written on it most largely. Wunderlich's work has been translated for the New Sydenham Society, and though Billroth's papers have not been translated, the main facts contained in them are embodied in his Surgical Pathology (Amer. ed. pp. 81 and 328). Perhaps the best and purest examples of inflammatory fever are to be found ni persons on whom wounds have been inflicted, or on whom surgical operations have been performed. After such injuries two sets of feverish symptoms may occur, the first being called traumatic fjvor ( Wimdficber, Billroth), the other secondary fever (Nachfieher, Billroth )• With regard to the former of these, Billroth says [op. cit. page 82), " Traumatic fever occasionally begins immediately after an injury, more frequently not till the second, thir.f, or fourth day. The highest temperature attained, F. ns a although rarely, is 104'5° F.--10£ rule it docs not rise much above 10- — luo . Simple traumatic fever does not usually last over a week ; in most cases it only continues from two to five days ; in many cases it is entirely absent, as in most small superficial incised wounds. I rau- matic fever depends entirely on the state ot the