PKEFACE TO THE SECOND VOLUME. On completing the Second Volume of the first posthumous edition of Cooper's Surgical Dictionary, it has appeared to the Editor, that an authentic biographical sketch of its learned author would more appropriately occupy its first pages than any lengthened preface. In the Preface to the First Volume the scope and object of the work, as well as the plan adopted in carrying it through the press, have been sufficiently explained. It will be there seen, that as much as possible of Cooper's original matter, whether historical or strictly professional, has been retained, and that the erasures have consisted only of material which, by lapse of time and the improved state of our know- ledge, had become obsolete. A promise is also there given that the more modern views necessarily resulting from the rapid advance in the several col- lateral sciences, chemistry, histology, and natural philosophy, bearing more or less directly on surgical pathology and therapeutics, should be sedulously introduced throughout the entire work. How far this has been effected, it must be left to the Profession to judge. The subjoined list of the able contributors of several of the principal articles affords an encouraging guarantee that to a considerable extent this has been accomplished. The Editor gladly acknowledges that from the comprehensive character of the work, and the labour which it demanded, the task of editing this Dictionary, and infusing into each article the most recent information would have been entirely beyond his individual powers, and that without their efficient aid the task could hardly have been achieved. The seventh and last Edition by the Author himself contained 1,500 closely set pages, m one volume. But such has heeh the press of new matter, that It has been found necessary to divide the present edition into two volumes each of which contains upwards of 1,000 pages of the same size and type. It would at first .sight appear that only 500 pages have been added to the original work ; but this would not fairly represent the lull extent of the additional matter contained in tho present edition, inasmuch as the