TESTICLE, DISEASES OF THE. 704 ticular afTection of the testicle, in whicli a fungus grows from tho glandular substance of this body, and, in some instances, from the surface of the tunica albuginea ;" and I further represented how lumecessary and improper it was to extirpate the testicle on account of this affection, and recom- mended the fungus to be cut off, or else destroyed with caustic. This advice was founded on a successful attempt of the kind which was made in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, by Sir James Earle, a little while before my book was published. [ Wiien the protrusion is small, pressure by means of pads and strapping may be tried, but usually it will be found necessary to destroy the granular surface by means of nitrate of silver or the red oxide of mercurj', applying pressure at the same time: the wound will then generally heal up, leaving the cicatrix permanently adherent to the testicle. Where the hernia is not very large, the skin around it healthy, and the rest of the gland not much diseased, an attempt may be made to save the organ in the manner recommended by Mr. Syme, of Edinburgh {London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal, Jan. 1845). The inargins of the wound should be pared, and the testicle detached from the integument and returned into the scrotal cavitj', so that the edges of the skin, having been made to meet over it, can then be united by wire sutures: if this be not possible from the size of the protrusion, or if the tension of the skin over it be too great, the substance of the testicle must be cut away sufficiently to permit of its being readily covered by the integument, and strips of plaister placed over the wound. In many cases this opera- tion is followed by the most satisfactory result, and the gland is not only preserved, but is said to regain its function. When the skin and testicle are too much diseased to give hope of success by this proceeding, as in many scrofulous cases, nothing remains but to excise the gland, when usually a rapid recovery takes place.] Cystic Disease of the Tcsiide, or, as it is sometimes termed, Cystic Sarcoma, is a comparatively rare affection, and was first carefully investigated by Sir Astley Cooper, who named it the hydatid or encysted disease of the testicle. The cysts are, however, totally distinct from true hydatids, and must not be confounded with those parasites. It is altogether a local disorder, being met with chiefly in healthy persons between the ages of eighteen and thirty-five, and when the diseased organ is removed no relapse occurs. Sir Astley Cooper considered that this affection takes origin in the tubuli seniiniferi, which be- coming obstructed in some part of their course are gradually distended with fluid. Mr. Curling is of opinion that the morbid dilatation commences in the ducts which form the rete testis rather than in the seminal tubes, and that it is therefore "analogous to the sero-cystic tumours of the breast." {Op. cit. p. 361.) By other observers the disease is regarded as a new formation in the body of the gland, which has its own capsule, and is quite distinct from the testicular structure; and that this growth, as it increases in size, develops cysts throughout its substance. M. Robin is of opinion that the cysts com- mence in the epididymis, but this view is opposed to the observations of other pathologists. On examining a testicle affected with this dis- ease, it will be found to consist chiefly of cysts which vary much in size, shape, and number. Sometimes these cavities will be very numerous, ranging from the size of a hempseed to that of a large marble, or there may be only two or tliree of tiiem. They contain fluid which may be serous and transparent, or viscid and thick ; occasionally it is stained with blood, and Ij'mph may be effused into or amongst them. Small polypoid growths will sometimes be met with springing from the interior of the cysts and filling them more or less completely. According to Mr. Curling, these cavities will, in some cases, be lined by tesselated epithelium, but it is not found in all. The cysts are connected by a fibrous tissue, which is often of considerable density, and it is not uncommon to find masses of enchondroma, or even particles of bone, deposited in this structure. In old-standing cases the cartilage will sometimes be in sufficient quantity to obliterate manj' of the cysts, and will then form the chief bulk of the tu- mour. The natural tissue of the gland will some- times be spread out as a layer over the morbid growth, or collected in bundles between the cysts themselves, or displaced and altered by the pres- sure of the tumour, or, when this is very large, it may have altogether disappeared. The epididymis is rarely involved, but becomes atrophied as the disease advances, and the cavit}' of the tunica vaginalis may be partially or entirely obliterated by adhesion of its surfaces. The cause of the disease is not known, but in some cases it has followed an injury. At first the growth of the tumour is very slow, but it increases afterwards more rapidly, and one spot generally becomes more elastic than another. One testicle only is affected, and it is rare to find a hj-drocele associated with this affection.] There is no pain until the part is large, and the unyielding tunica albuginea makes pressure on it. When handled, there is no tenderness, unless the pressure be considerable. The frequently healthy look of the patient is apt to create suspicion of hydrocele. The spermatic veins and those of th& scrotimi are distended. The natural form of the testis is preserved, being rounded in front, and flattened at the sides, and not so pyriform as in hydrocele. When the swelling is handled, it communicates an impression that it contains fluid, for it easily yields to pressure, yet there is no true fluctuation. If strongly compressed, a sickening pain in the groin and loins is produced. The weight of the testicle is obviously increased, and after a time this causes pain in the lumbar region, and its bulk is a great inconvenience. The marks of distinction between cystic dis- ease and hydrocele are that the former is charac- terised rather by a yielding than a fluctuation ; by a heavier swelling; by the swelling being less pyriform than a hydrocele ; by the entire absence of transparency ; by the sickening pain caused strons compression of the tumour ; and by by the dilated state of the veins of the spermatic cord and scrotmn. , The removal of the part by operation is the only means of relief ; for the change of structure at- tending the disease manifestly amounts to a dis- organisation of the part not admittmg of benefit from any internal or external remedies. [When there is difliculty in the diagnosis, an