36 INFLAMMATION, lips are dark clierry red. But in any case, the share •wliich plethora takes in creating inflammation seems to be this—if the blood be inclined to undergo morbid decomposition, then the presence of a surplus which the excreting organs are not active enough to purify, will be an important pre- disposing cause. b. As no amount of plethora by itself will cause, BO no diminution of quantity nor poverty of blood will avert, inflammation. Nay, when the blood is starved, local congestions and inflammations follow; want of some elements renders others morbidly predominant. Inflammations of a low type, and diseases of the skin and mucous mem- branes complicated with parasitic growths, are liable to follow want of nourishment. It is said that the ringworm has disappeared from the child- ren in Christ's Hospital since an extra half-pint of milk was given them every day. Practising as I do in Iiondon, where, as Mr. Lawrence observes, every luxury abounds, and, to- gether with plenty, the disposition to enjoy it, yet more cases of inflammation are found to arise from poverty than from excess of blood. The acute hydrocephalus and acute bronchitis of infants, the two inflammations more destructive to infant life than any others, attack ill-nourished children by preference. Croup is more prevalent amongst the poor than the rich, and pleurisy more frequently occurs with than without a tendency to phthisis. In proportion as human beings are deprived of fresh air and of the habit of free exposure to it, so does the' aliment which they take, and which is destined for combination with oxygen, require to be select and abundant. But the majority of townspeople have not the means of procuring a diet adequate to their wants. The children of the rich are often kept upon an absurdly monotonous diet, on the plea of excluding unwholesome things. The child- ren of the poor in towns are too dependent on white bread and watered milk. Apprentices, shopmen, milliner's girls, governesses, servants in small families, clerks, young growing boys who leave school and have their living to get as errand boys, &c., are all, to my knowledge, liable to hard work, bad air, and imperfect diet, although the servants of the wealthy, aristocratic, and trading part of the community in the same town may be indulging in disgraceful waste. Men, too, may eat their beefsteaks and drink their porter, whilst their wives and families dine on tea and bread. The existence of great luxury, and waste, and intemperance is no proof, therefore, that a con- siderable part of the community may not be suffer- in^^ from a want of food, either of sufficient quan- tity, or of sufficiently varied quality. Suffice it to say, that there are few inflammations ot sponta- neous origin in a town population in which tlie practitioner is not called upon to order an im- proved diet, either along with, or soon after Uis first "evacuant" remedies. In the e.xpernnonts of Mauendie, the common accompaniments ot death by starvation were found to be inflamma- tion of the mucous membranes, conjunctivitis, and Ulceration of the cornea. Our present knowledge of animal chemistry does not enable us to refer all Buch cases to their efficient causes. But remem- bei-ing that, according to Magendie's experiments, feeding on sugar alone is equivalent to starvation; remembering, loo, Dr. Garrod's theory ot tlie de- Jpendence of the occurrence of scurvy when fresh vegetables are absent, on the absence of pot- ash (or at least of vegetable and animal matter containing that alkali) from the food, we can scarcely doubt that many, if not all, of the inflamma- tions arising from insufficient nourishment spring directly from the want of definite chemical elements in the blood. c. As definite local inflammation may be pro- duced by the artificial introduction of matters into the blood—for example, catarrh by iodide of potas- sium, gastritis by arsenic, nephritis with rash by cubebs, dysenteric symptoms by aloes, and uterine irritation by savine—and as it is equally certain that some organic poisons introduced into the blood produce definite local inflammations (as tliose of syphilis, variola, and the like) so it is probable that most if not all idiopathic inflammations are pro- duced by the generation within the blood of some poisonous element. Whether this be absolutely true or not, we have no means of deciding; but it is allowable as a hypothesis. Herpes, psoriasis, and other skin eruptions; croup, pneumonia, bronchitis, and coryza, all follow the same rule^as do diseases whose origin in " morbid poisons is incontestable. _ ^ To quote from an able French writer, loute modification du sang possede dans I'organisme ses localisations a elle, et qui en constituent en quelque sorte I'expression characteristique et difi'erentielle." {Baudin, Traite des Fievres inter- mitlentes, Paris, 1842.') Many morbid poisons seem to reproduce them- selves in the body, as yeast does. The poison acts, not so much per se, as by a transformation which it excites in the living fluids with which it is inter- mixed, and which reproduce it. This doctrine of the probable developement of specific poisons _ in the blood, was held by Sydenham (see Section 8). But it has been stated anew in our own day by" that profound philosopher, Dr. Wm.Farr, who, as is well known, has given the name zymotic to that class of diseases whose poisons (however generated) are capable of reproducing them- sc1ygs» " Certain matters which have not yet been analvsed produce small-pox, glanders, hydrophobia, syphilis, measles, scarlatina, and other diseases ; and as it was before proposed to give names to the well-defined diseases produced by poisons, so, tor the purposes of reasoning, it will be equally useful to name these specific matters or transformations of matter by which diseases are propagated either by inoculation and contact (contagion), or by inha- lation (infection). The following list exhibits the popular and scientific names of diseases in juxtaposition with the proposed names of their exciters. Diseases Small-pox Cow-pox G'.auders Hydrophobia Syphilis Infection in dis- secting Erysipelas Puerperal fever Measles Scarlet fever Whooping-cough variola vaccinia equinia lyssa syphilis nccnsia erysipelas mctria rubeola Bcai'latiua pertussis Ztfinotic Principles Varinline Vacciniue Equinine Lyssiue Syphiline Nccusine Erysipelino Me trine Rubei'line Scarlatinine Pertussine