834 struction; a little tumefaction of the part, a pellet of thick mucus, a flake of fibrinous deposit, or a very small calculus, is quite sufficient to block up the channel; and fatal consequences have been so caused. But do the walls of the contracted passage ever adhere, and so cause obliteration of the urethra ? Never, unless fistulse have been established, when, although very rarely, this accident may happen in that part of the canal which is an- terior to the unnatural opening, and which is thus deprived of its function as an excretory chan- nel. In such instances, obliteration is often of traumatic origin. The urethra may be cut across by a wound in the perineum, and for want of pro- per attention the urine may pass entirely through the artificial opening, and adhesion seal up the proper passage. But such obliteration is a wholly different thing from stricture, and ought not to be confounded with it. Organic stricture, when unrelieved, tends to produce, sooner or later, a diseased condition of the contiguous portions of the urinary apparatus. The urethra behind the stricture expands under the influence of the expulsive efforts of the bladder telling on its walls. The urethral ducts and la- cunae are frequently enlarged to many times their size. Pouches are thus formed capable of en- tangling the point of a sound or bougie ; and it is worthy of note that they are generally situated on the floor of the urethra. The sinuses, which lie on either side of the veru montanum, may be con- siderably deepened, giving that body an appearance of unusual enlargement or development, while the septa intervening between the dilated mouths of tlie prostatic ducts, present the appearance of nar- row fibrous bands crossing each other in all direc- tions, forming a network exceedingly adapted to entangle an instrument, especially after it has been passed through a tight stricture, since the power of manipulating its point with delicacy is dimin- ished by the grasp which the contraction exerts upon it. The urethra may also become ulcerated in these situations, and may even give way alto- gether, extravasation of urine into the cellular tis- sue occurring as its result. As a result of the same pressure, the bladder itself becomes hypertrophied, the subject of chronic inflammation, and often sacculated ; sometimes losing the power to expel its contents. The ureters become dilated, and as the pressure of a distended bladder increases, the pelves and calices of the kidneys are expanded, and occasionally are so to an enormous extent. The kidney itself may ulti- mately be destroyed by atrophy through pressure, and by chronic inflammation. In the writings of the old anatomists and sur- geons, we find the symptoms of stricture attributed to a pathological condition very different from that which greater opportunities of prosecuting re searches in morbid anatomy have led modern observers to recognise as their most frequent cause They supposed that the flow of urine was inter rupted by some growth into the urethra, analogous to those found in mucous canals elsewhere, and accordingly they named these supposititious bodies "_/"««</!," " carnosilies or caruncles," and " excres' viiiices" and presented them as the common cause •of urinary obstructions. In a very small proportion of cases these bodies certainly do exist, their extreme rarity, howeve URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. must be inferred, not only from their very infre- quent occurrence among the preparations in our Museums, but also in the records of their ex- perience, which later anatomists have left respecting them. I have met with a few instances of wart-like vegetations on the anterior part of the canal, which are very vascular, and which obstruct, to some extent, the flow of urine; and once I found a small polypoid tumor, more than half an inch long, springing from the veru montanum. Locality of Stricture.—The statements made on this subject by surgeons have differed very ma- terially, and, as it would appear, rather from the want of precise researches respecting it, than from any other cause. Most have given their impres- sions from passing instruments on the living sub- ject ; a few only have closely examined it by post-mortem researches. Thus John Hunter says:—" Every part of the urethra is not equally subject to stricture, for there appears to be one part which is much more liable to them than the whole of the urethra besides, i.e. about the bul- bous part. We find them, however, sometimes on this side the bulb, but very seldom beyond it. I never saw a stricture in that part of the urethra which passes through the prostate gland." Sir E. Home:—"Strictures occur most commonly just behind the bulb of the urethra; the distance from the external orifice being six and a half or seven inches.'' Sir B. Brodie.—" In the majority of in- stances the disease began in the anterior portion of the membranous part of the urethra,behind the bulb, and in the situation of the triangular ligament of the perineum." Mr. Listen.—"The passage is con- tracted at various parts; most frequently at about four inches from the meatus, but sometimes much nearer, and even close to it. The urethra is often enough narrowed as it passes through the deep fas- cia, betwixt its sinus and the apex of the prostate." Mr. Shaw.—" I have not, in more than a himdred dissections which I have made of the diseases of the urethra, seen a stricture or narrowing of the canal posterior to the ligament of the bulb; nor have I been able to find one example of stricture beyond this part among those preserved in the Col- lege Museum." Mr. Benjamin Phillips.—" In a hundred and seventy-three cases which I have selected, the disease was seated at the following distances from the orifice of the urethra:— " In 9 the distance did not exceed 1 inch. „ 8 from , . . . I to 2 inches. „ 13 from . . . , 2 to 3 „ „ 11 from . . . . 3 to 4 „ „ 98 from , . . . 4 to Si „ „ 40 from . . . .5^10 „ „ 10 from . . . . to 7^ ms. Amussat "finds that the most common seat of the disease is in front of the junction between the bulb and the membranous portion." Leroy d'Etiolles:—" Nineteen-twentieths of strictures exist at a depth which varies from five to six inches, that is to say, immediately behind the bulb, at the commencement of the membranous portion. I have myself examined all the preparations m the Museums of the metropolis; in that of the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh, as well as a few in Paris, for the purpose of determunng, if possible, this question. In doing so 1 carefully inspected 300 preparations, of which 2/0 were available for the purpose of enquiry: they con-