109 JOINTS, DISEASES OF. same disease has received different appellations. And confusion, with respect to the diagnosis, always gives rise to a corresponding confusion with respect to the employment of remedies. Although, says he, diseases in their advanced stage extend to all the dissimilar parts of which the joints are composed, such is not the case in the beginning. Here, as elsewhere, the morbid actions commence, sometimes in one, and sometimes in another texture, differing in their nature, and of course requiring to be differently treated, according to the mecha- nical organisation and vital properties of the part in which they originate. (See Pathological and Surgical Ohs. on Dis. of the Joints, p. 2, 8vo. Lond. 1818.) It was this idea which led Sir B. Brodie to trace by dissection the exact parts in which several of the piincipa! diseases of the joints com- mence ; and how much liglit and disciiminatiun his successful investigations have produced it is needless to insist upon, as his merit will be appreciated by every surgeon who recollects the perplexity and ignorance which prevailed only a few years ago in this very interesting branch of surgerj'. Wounds. — By the wound of a joint surgeons mean a case where the capsular ligament and syno- vial membrane are penetrated or divided. The injury is often accompanied with a division of the lateral or other ligaments, and sometimes also with that of the cartilages and bones. [The fact of penetration is made known to us by the escape of a transparent viscid discharge, called the synovia; or the interior of the articulation itself may be exposed. If there is any doubt as to the wound penetrating the synovial membrane, it is strongly recommended by surgeons not to probe or use any other means to ascertain the fact, for the reason that the very occurrence that is dreaded may be induced by the surgeon. The fact of the wound penetrating the joint will speedily be cleared up by the symptoms that supervene.] As a discharge very much resembling synovia may proceed from mere wounds of the bursae mucosse, we might form an erroneous judgment were we unacquainted with the situation of these little synovial bags. In Aug. 1829 I attended a man whose leg was attacked with erysipelas in consequence of a superficial lace- ration of the skin of the knee by a fall. A small abscess formed below the patella, and afterwards a considerable quantity of fluid, resembling white of egg, and evidently secreted by the neighbouring bursa, was daily discharged with the pus. Boyer met with several cases in which a fluid resembling synovia was discharged from the wounds of the sheaths of tendons. {Mai. Chir. t. iv. p. 408.) [The severity of the wound of a joint will depend upon the size of the articulation itself, and also upon the nature of the wound, whether it be a puncture, an incision, or an extensive laceration. In small joints like those of the fingers a recovery will often ensue without destruction of the articu- lation. On the other hand, when a large joint is punctured or incised, the inflauimation and consti- tutional disturbance may be so great as not only to lead to the loss of the limb, but also of tlie patient's life. " When the wound is large, lace- rated, or contused, with fracture of the articular ends of the bones, one or other of these conse- quences certainly results. It is especially in grown-up persons that these unfavourable conse- quences ensue; in children extensive injuries of large joints may heal favourably, though, if the child be of a strumous habit of body, destructive action is apt to be set up. (See Erichsen's fe'eHce and Art of Surgery, ed. 3, p. 256.) Simple wounds, however, even of large joints, often heal favourably; we have seen the knee and elbow joint laid open, and recovery with a moderate amount of temporary stiffness of the joint, the cure having mainly de- pended upon keeping the limb in the most perfect state of rest, and using proper means to avert in- flammation.] Boyer relates two cases of punctured wounds of the elbow-joint, which healed up in a few days without any unfavourable symptom. I have seen others. In the hospitals of this metro- polis cases of punctured wounds of the knee and other joints frequently present themselves, and, if well treated, often have a favourable termination. The records of surgery, again, furnish many exam- ples, in which the most alarming and fatal conse- quences have ensued. (See Hunter's Commentaries:, part i. p. 69.) When properly treated, punctured' wounds of the joints (says Boyer) are not in generaf attended with danger; but as sonie of them, which were apparently quite simple, have been followed! by bad symptoms, and even death, we should always be extremely circumspect in the prognosis^ [Op. cit. t. ix. p. 409.) [In wounds of tlie joints, the local symptoms- and state of the parts are the same as in the most violent forms of synovitis, and the source of the danger is the inflammation set up {traumatic- arthritis). " A few hours after the infliction of the injury the joint swells, becomes hot, painful, and throbs. The pain increases, becoming tensive and extremely severe. If the aperture be large, synovia freely escapes, which soon becomes mixed with pus. If it be small, but little more than it puncture, the joint swells and fills with purulent fluid, which \v\U either escape through the original wound, or find an outlet for itself through a new situation. There are stai tings of the limb, with excessive pain in any attempts at moving it. The constitutional disturbance becomes very severe, the patient being occasionally carried off by the violence of the irritative fever. In other cases symptoms of purulent absorption come on, and. death results from pyemia." (See Erichsen, op^ cit. p. 257.) Should the patient survive the- acute symptoms, abscesses form around and above- the articulation, burrowing in various directions,, and the discharge both from them and the joint- induces irritative fever and hectic. It is to the admission of air into the joint that suppuration) is attributed; and this is beyond dispute an un- doubted fact, when it is remembered that very- extensive wounds, in and around joints, involving- ruptures and lacerations of tissues, as occur ini dislocations and fractures, go on without any bad. symptoms, if air is excluded. At any rate sup- puration rarely takes place. The air in communi- cation with an open joint causes the pu3 to become- acrid and putrescent, thus rendering it a source of irritation in the depths of the articulation, which severely tells upon the constitutional powers. The- essential difference between traumatic arthritis and other forms of idiopathic inflannnation of a. destructive or disorganising character, is that ini the first the synovial membrane is the part pri- marily affected, and if the cartilages nie involved they become so secondarily, the articular ends of