830 URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. In many cases', I think we are bound to instruct the patient to pass an instrument for himself, when the urethra has become patent, and the passage of ii sound through it is tolerably easy. The faculty of thus maintaining the canal in fair condition is often of extreme value to him, and may be easily acquired. . , When, however, after some one or two trials, we have been unable to penetrate the stricture, other means must be employed. It will be des.r- able to see the patient make water: if the stream is small the size of the instrument should cor- respond 'with it; if it is not, the contraction cannot be very considerable, and some fold of membrane, or perhaps a false passage, has entangled the point, in which case also the sound to be tried next should be as nearly as possible of the size of the stream. In introducing it we should generally endeavour to avoid the floor of the urethra, as well as any lateral deviation in its course, the sides, and particularly the floor, being, as already seen, favourite situations for artificial passages. Failing of success in this direction, we should next cau- tiously carry the point towards each of these situations in succession, trying patiently for a short time to insinuate it either above, below, or on either side of the passage, if the slightest sensation of its being "held " suggests a probability that the orifice exists in any of these directions. And when the instrument has thus become a little grasped, we should endeavour to facilitate its pro- gress by patient, continued, and moderate pressure, the precise amount of which should be proportioned to the degree which the patient will bear without much complaining. Frequently when the obstruc- tion is situated far back, the introduction of the left fore-finger, previously oiled, into the rectum, will facilitate the progress of the instrument, either by permitting its point to be raised to some extent, or by enabling us to judge more precisely of its exact locality and relation to the parts around. AVhether or no, should fifteen or twenty minutes have elapsed, and success be still wanting, further attempts may be postponed until another visit A longer period than this, however, may be expended, and often with advantage, provided the manipulation has not caused pain or bleeding, and that it has been conducted in that careful and gentle manner which alone is ever admissible, or indeed conducive to success. Some tliree or four days may elapse before the next trial, when we shall know what instrument to use at hrst, and commence at once by adopting the same gentle plan, The employment of continued pressure on the face or commencement of an indurated and not very sensitive stricture, is sometimes successful, either by inducing absorption, or by mechanical action upon the yielding materials of the obstruction. The operator, however, should be certain that he is really acting on the contraction, and not tol- owing or making a false passage. It is important to remember, as an invariable rule in relation to these attempts, that when the instrument is tightly grasped, the operator may infer that its point is safe within the strictured part; but that when the point feels free, movable, and capable of being withdrawn without appreciable cflbrt, it is cer- tainly not in the stricture; it may be, in such circumstances, in a false passage. If after being grasped or "held" it advances suddenly for a short distance under pressure, and becomes movable, it is very probable that a false passage has been made and the urethral walls perforated; after which unfortunate occurrence all further efforts must be given up, at least for several days, and the employment of instruments, when again resorted to, must be conducted with vigilant care, to avoid any re-opening of the lacerated part. Occasionally we meet with circumstances still more difficult and embarrassing than any yet men- tioned. The stricture may be complicated with false passages previously made, or the patient's general health may be greatly deteriorated. In the latter condition we should not commence instru- mental treatment until we have, by every possible means, promoted a good state of the general health, and a normal condition of the secretions, by con- stitutional means hereafter to be referred to. After the lapse of a few days since any preceding attempt, we may now avail ourselves of other aids in the endeavour to pass a catheter. Instead of permitting the patient, even if he is able, to leave his house for treatment, it is desirable to visit him, and of all seasons I prefer to do so when he is in bed, with the skin warm and moist from ample coverings. A hot hip-bath just before the visit is sometimes advantageous. When introducing the instrument, it is necessary that there should be no chill: all unnecessary exposure should be therefore carefully guarded against. Premising that the precise situation of the stricture has been carefully verified beforehand, a small silver catheter should be se- lected, the size of which should be little less than that of the stream of urine. Sometimes then an advantage appears to be gained by injecting some warm oil into the urethra before commencing; in fact, filling the urethra well with it, by means of a glass syringe. The smallest catheter may now be introduced, and made to traverse the urethra— at all events, as far as to the stricture—with very little difficulty, and when arrived at the stricture, the instrument, if adapted in size, may gradually pass through it; or, at least, the probability of its doing so is greatly increased. The narrowed chan- nel has not only been thoroughly lubricated, but somewhat distended, by the mechanical pressure of the column of oil; and this sometimes occurs to an extent which affords no inconsiderable amount of aid to the operator. When the stricture has been passed, consider- able care is necessary in guiding onwards the point of a very small catheter through the canal behind, to prevent its becoming engaged in the enlarged lacuuEE which are commonly found in the dilated urethra behind an old stricture. Sometimes the orifice of the stricture does not lie precisely in tne axis of the urethra, but is to be found above or below, to the right or to the left of it; a fact not difficult of appreciation by the practised hand. It was a recognition of these variations aa often constituting the difficulty in cases of obstinate stricture that led Sir B. Brodie to recommend an instrument whose point is made to deviate from the axis of the adjacent parts, as figured in his well-known work. Leroy d'Etiolles also used some very small gum-elastic bougie.', possessing points twisted somewhat into the form of a corkscrew. He recommends that these should be turned in every direction, until chance guided the point through the devious passage, and he claimed to have achieved ii considerable success from their