INFLAMMATION, of the diseases which infest marshes. But marshes are notoriously infested with fogs and dews ; and sudden falls of temperature, especially at night in marshy districts, are existing and sufficient causes of fever. Moreover, the preventive of so-called malarial disease is ivarmtJt, to wit, the lighting of fires in houses ; and the thing which is most per- nicious to a person already labouring under such disease is cold to the skin. But no aerial poison could be counteracted by fires and flannels. More- over, quinine is as efficacious in many diseases con- tracted from cold and damp as it is in so-called ma- larial fevers. The same line of argument is ex- pressed by Dr. Oldham in his treatise, " W/iat is Malaria ?" (Lond. 1871). "Whether," he says, " in hot or in cold, in wet or in dry climates, the affections which accompany and are intimately connected with malarious fevers are those which are almost universally ad- mitted to arise from exposure to chill." On the other hand, the powerfully wrought chain of facts and arguments collected by John Mac- culloch {On Marsh Fever and Neuralgia, Lond. 18"28), by La Roche {On Pneumonia, Autum- nal Fevers, and Malaria, Philadelphia, 1854), and many others, place the existence and morbid agency of malaria beyond a doubt. It is certain that heat and damp alone do not generate malaria, without their action upon the earth in a peculiar state ; that land loaded with vegetable debris and exposed to a hot sun is dangerous, not when covered with water, but when first moistened after drought, or when drying after the wet season ; that ships' crews moored close to shore maybe at- tacked with fever, when ships a little further out to sea are exempt ; that the superficially dry sandy beds of watercourses in hot coimtries are very dangerous in summer ; that malaria can be conveyed by wind and arrested by trees ; that it affects animals, and even the fcetus in utero ; that it impresses a peculiar character on the inhabitants of paludal districts ; besides innumerable other properties which it would be beside my purpose to recount. Although, then, it may be granted that some inflammations arising from thorough chill" have much in common with malarial disease, yet no surgeon who fails to recognise malaria will tre.at the diseases of hot or even of temperate climates satisfactorily. The inflammations caused by malaria are those which accompany the fevers—deadly remittents in the tropics, mild interniittents in colder climates. On this point, says Macculloch, " The inflamma- tory or local affections, be they what the/ may, may be slender and truly supplementary; but they may also prevail so far above the fever, that they may appear to be a distinct disease or the superior one," if, for example,'' the lociil affection should be permanent or continuous, when the fever has its intermissions and perhaps long ones, as in ijuartan, or if, still further, that fever may not be very con- spicuous compared with the local symptoms." {On Malaria, p. 280.) In remittent fevers, there may be inflammations i f the brain, of the linigs, or tlie pleura, of the throat, of the bronchial membrane (catarrhs), of the stomach, the intestines, the liver, the spleen, the peritoneum, of the muscles and ligaments (rheumatism)^—all of these varying in intensities in whole epidemics, as in indi- 39 th ■viduals, and thus at one extreme producing cases .which, under peculiar characters also in the essential fever, may simulate Or almost equal cases of phre- nitis, pleurisy, and so forth. {Macculloch, p. 279.) In temperate climates the effects of malaria and those of cold and damp upon the nerves seem identical—neuralgia, that is, intense pain in the course of a nerve ; or tenderness of a r.er e trunk, with tingling, or paralysis of the parts supplied, as in the common paralysis of the portia dura ; every species of spasmodic affection depending on irri- tated nerve trunks ; and above all others, dysen- terj', catarrhs, and rheumatic inflammations of the eye. It belongs to the next section to describe the general characters of these inflammations. Mental conditions, too, are most powerful pre- disposing and exciting causes of certain low in- flammations. It is unnecessary to repeat what is of common observation respecting the power of " attention " to direct the current of blood to cer- tain organs. The digestive organs and the genital are those whose organic diseases aremo;t directly influenced by the mind. Dr. Brinton, in his valunble essay on " Ulcer of the Stomach," tells us of a patient suffering from disease of the sto- mach who was compelled to check any current of desponding thought by the aggravated suffering it occasioned; and any phj'sician who sees uterine disease must know to how great a degree conges- tion, swelling, mucopurulent discharge, and hajmor- rhage, may be produced by fretting and anxiety. Anxiety of mind, that most severe disease, as the Rev. Professor Hauahton justly calls it, not only deranges the distribution, but alters the composition of the blood—it uses it up more quickly than the severest bodily toil does, and leaves it polluted with excrementitious matter. I have seen a female patient jiist cured of eczema, in whom a conipli'te relapse followed a fit of intense grief. Embolism as a Cause of Inflammation.—We have already stated that one local inflammation may be the focus or source of others, which are secondary or situated in remote parts. We bava suggested the probability of the opinion that the changes which the blood undergoes in the inflamed part are the causes of that general feverishness which is one of the symptoms of acute local in- flammation. We now proceed to notice some phenomena on a larger scale which seem to confirm those speculations. It is now recognised among the truths of path- ology that fibrinous concretions may be formed i?i the vessels during life, giving rise to serious and often fatal symptoms; and, moreover, that these fibrinous concretions, or portions of them, may be transported from one part of the vascular system to other vessels, or into the capillaries of paren- chymatous organs, giving rise to obstruction, con- gestion, inflammation, softening, or gangrene. Mr. Paget was among the first authors to'draw attention to the fact that fibiinous concretions might be formed during life in the pulmonary ar- tery, and his papers, published in the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions for 1844 and 1845, con- tain some very interesting cases and observations in support of this view. {Medico-CMrurqical Transactions, vols. ix. and x., second scries.) " But the honour of the discovery of tho phenomena of thrombosis and embolism belongs to Virchow, who in 184G published some researches on the delaeh- nuntof thrombi from the veins, and in 184 7 on the detachment of fibrin from the valves of tho heart, and the occlusion of vesEcls therewith.