carried onwards into the bladder, and secured in the usual ninnner. Now as to the applicability of the operation of perineal section, whatever may be said of it in circumstances of retention, the case must be bad indeed in which we are compelled to resort to it as a means of cure. All surgeons have regarded it at host as a dangerous remedy. The uncertainty which must attend an attempt to divide, by mere dissection from the surface of the perineum, an inch or more of contracted urethra, whose calibre has been reduced to what is almost a capillary bore, especially if the tissues are unnaturally tiiickened and condensed, will be admitted by all; and few, perhaps, would undertake to assert, un- less a grooved director can first he passed, that an accurate division can be insured, or, indeed, that it is ever made. Thus Sir B. Brodie says :— "Even under the most favourable circumstances it cannot be otherwise than doubtful whether the stricture be properly divided, that is, whether the incision has passed through the narrow canal in the centre, or through the solid substance on one side of it. I suppose that no surgeon would recommend .such an operation except as a last resort, where no instrument could be made to pass through the stricture by other means." {Op. dt. p. G7.) Every chance of getting an instrument through the stric ture that can possibly be derived from the emploj^ ment of rest and constitutional treatment, in addition to the most careful and repeated mani- [lulations, should be exhausted before we consent to employ it, failing in which, its necessity and utility may be admitted as a last extremity. Division mi a Grooved Staff.—Another external operation upon the urethra has within the last few years been advocated by Mr. Syme, of Edinburgh, but the cases to which he applies it are not those in which it had been the custom to operate by ex- ternal incisions. Previously, both in theory and practice, it had been held to be an axiom among all surgeons, that when a sound of any size can be passed through a stricture into the bladder, division of the stricture from tlie surface of the perineum is certainly contra-indicated. Mr. Syme, however, holds, and few surgeons now maintain a different opinion, that all stric- tures, however severe, chronic, or irritable, will admit an instrument to be fairly passed through them into the bladder, if only the instrument be sufficiently small and be passed with care. If the urethra is obliterated, as occasionally, but very rarely, happens, of course no instrument can be fairly passed. Such a condition, however, is not one of sirichirc, but of ohlilcration. In other words, then, there is no such thing as impermeable stric- ture ; it is not imperniealde if urine passes through it ; and if it is permeable by urine, it is also per- meable, granting time and patience,'by a sound, if it is of a size corresponding to tliat of the con- tracted part. Thus it by no means follows that in retention of urine a catheter can always be passed, although most commonly it nuiy be ; but, that in the absence of such urgent conditions, no stricture should be regarded as impermeable, but should he rendered amenable to catlieterism after at most a few patiejit and i)erscveriiig trials. If in any case of stricture, then, dilatatimi has been" foiuid to fail in affording anything like a tolerable nmoinit of relief; and that in spile of its most carcdil application, aided by all the inlluencus URETHRA, STRICTURE OF. 837 which promote its success, viz., rest, improvement of the secretions, diminisliing local inflammation, &c., Mr. Syme advises that a small grooved staff should be passed through the stricture, and that the whole of the diseased tissue should be divided upon it from the perineum. This is done in the following manner. 7l/o(/e of Ferfarming the Opemiion.—The operator should first make himself quite familiar with the situation of the stricture he proposes to divide, in this manner. He must know how many inches it is from the external meatus, and what is its ex- tent; which is easily determined by a small bulbous sound passed through the contraction and with- drawn. The staff to be employed has a shoulder ; that is, it suddenly increases in its diameter just above the curve, which latter alone is grooved, so that while the slender part of the instrument has passed through the stricture, the larger part stops at its anterior limit, and is easily felt by the fore- finger through the tissues, as an accurate guide to the situation of the contraction, provided the staff is maintained steadily in its position. For my own use, I have had a staff constructed with a channel throughout, by which the urine issuing when it arrives at the bladder, the operator knows that the slender point is in its proper place, a sa- tisfiictory assurance when false passages exist, and render the right route rather difficult of ac- cess. The staff having been introduced, the patient is placed in position and secured as for lithotomy, on a table of convenient height, over the edge of which the nates are brought. An assistant holds the staff upright, and draws up the scrotum with the left hand. The operator, seated, makes an in- cision in the line of the raphe', from above down- wards, about two inches long, and steadily follows the direction of the median line, through the struc- tures intervening between the skin and the staff the line of wliich he feels for with the left fore- finger, as he approaches it. He can now distin- guish the thick end of the shoulder, and by that is guided to the position of the stricture, when taking a sharp straight bistoury in his right hand' and the staff itself in his left, which he holds firmly against the stricture, he engages the point of the knife in the groove of the staff about an inch below the shoulder, and cuts upwards to the extreme upper end of the groove, which penetrates into the thick portion of the staff for a short distance It is necessary to take pains to cut the stricture en- tirely, m the anterior direction especially for when the knife has reached the upper end of the groove, the tissues are apt to be pushed before the blade and not cut, even when it is sharp. If the stricture has been properly divided, the" shoulder of the staff may now be passed downwards througli the incised part with the greatest freedom: if so it may be withdrawn, and a catheter passed in its place. Since, however, the point of a catheter sometimes catches in the wenind, and does not co readily into the bladder, perhaps from the urethra occasionally collapsing at the posterior limit of the incision, 1 jireier to introduce through the wound before withdrawing the staff, a concave curved director along the convexity of the staff, into the ' ladder. The staff being withdrawn, tlu! catlicter on arriving at the wound, glides securely and cer tainly along the director into the bladder. Now It is a matier of no small iini ortance, that no por-