ing a wfttch which is constructed with a com- pensation balance. This, wliicli I may call the spiritual theory, assumed the vital forces to be some entity inha- biting the living structures and acting on them, yet separable both in idea and fact. {Reiiouai-d, Histoire de la Mtdecine, t 2, p. IDl.) Thus Van Helraont, (A. 1577, d. 1644) speaking of the Archaeus, or sentient principle, which he makes the ruler of the animal body, says that when of- fended by acidity, it sends the disordered blood to the pleura to cause a pleurisy ; for, he says, the humour cannot go of itself, nor yet can the pleura fetch it. (Oiius Medicince,^ Pleiirafure?is, Amst., J648.) Van Heimont was a great opponent of Galen, and opposed bleeding under all circum- stances. He says, ".eyas et b/as nova quidem sunt nomina, a me introducta," and describes these as secondary powers, acting in obedience to the Archseus. Subsequent physicians taught that the initiative in inflammation was taken by the vital spirits. Thus the venerated Thomas Willis, the great ex- pounder of the nervous system {b. 1622, d. 1675), affirms that there is a corporeal soul, of material e.xistence, and equal extent with the body, com- mon to man as to brutes, as well as a mind or rational soul. The hipostusis or substance of the soul is constituted by " Animal Spirits " of a fiery nature, which issue from the brain through the nerves, and when expended are distilled out of the blood in the brain as in an alembic. These spirits are contained in the blood with water, salts, sul- phur, and earth ; and if any heterogenous thing be introduced it causes the blood to effervesce and boil with fermentation, evidenced by increased heat and motion. A Peripneumouy, of which the symptoms are accurately given, is caused by blood "boiling feverishh'," and "sticking within the narrow passages of the lungs, engenders there an •obstruction causing inflammation.'" The reason of the '• stickiness " of the blood is too much sulphur, and the retention of excrementitious matter. ( Works, fol. Lond., 1684, Pliarmaoeuliee Ralioiialis, Part ii., p. 5<).) Morton, in his Pyre/o/o^za, or Doctrine of Fevers (daled 1691; Mortoni Opera, Gevevw, 1727), also describes what vve call " nervous influence as the Animal Spirits, or Aura Animalis, of a material aerial nature, everywhere inti- mately mixed with the blood, proceeding from the brain as rays from the sun ; running along the nerves as channels, and inhabiting every fibrilla ; the immediate Organ of the Soul, and matter of Life ( Vitcv siilijectuin). These spirits are acted on by poisnnims ferments, which cause them to ex- pand and surge—hence the heat, and preteriuitural ■movement of the blood. Morbid blood mav affect the "spirits," but virtually the "spirits" are the agents in all general diseases, and mediately in local diseases also. Thus, as Stahl complained, the first effort of the "moderns " was only to substitute a new set of imaginary humours—salt, acid, and sulphureous —-mvented by their most imperfect chemistry, for the "humours" of the ancients. Tne hypothesis ■was held that the blood was moved by the animal spirits, whereas the humours seemed to establish 'themselves of their own accord. There are tour main facts which have influenced the modern theories of inflammation, viz., the dis- INFLAMMATION. 57 covery of the circulation of the blood and the functions of the nervous svstem; the development of chemistry ; the invention of the microscope ; and, fourthly, one whose influence is just beginning to be felt, the doctrine of the conserviition or corre- lation of force. In the seventeenth century experi- mental science began to flourish ; the authority of " the ancients " began to decay, and their humoral doctrines to be derided. The importation in 1649 of the " Peruvian Cortex," as it was called par excellence, gave a heavy blow to these doctrines, because it showed that a fever might be suppressed absolutely, without any of the coction and evacua- tion of morbific matter, which were absolutely necessary under the old theory. It is an un- fortunate fact that medical theorists, like children who will not wait till fruit is ripe, are always eager to seize upon new discoveries in physical science, and to construct out of them some pre- mature and abortive scheme of patholog)'. So out of the premature use of the science of the seven- teenth century grew various doctrines which flou- rished for a wliile. Out of the anatomy of the nervous system grew the notion of animal spirits, distilled from the brain, and etirervescing with fever ferments in the blood, as held by Willis and Morton. Out of the chemistry were constructed the doctrines of the iatro-chemical sect, which we shall trace further in Subsection 6. Out of the new doctrine of the circulation of the blood, and the invention of the microscope by which Mal- pighi showed the globules passing through the capillaries, grew the iairo-medianical or mathe- matical or hydraulic school, of which I shall take Borelli, Pitcairn, De Gorter, Belloste, Astruc, Mead, and Boerhaave as representatives. This school, as regards doctrines of inflammation, was ohstruclionisl, holding that the minute vessels were stopped up by their contents. Afterwards, as the functions of the nerves and nature of living parts became better known, theories began to prevail of the action of the capillaries in causing inflamma- tion by arresting the passsage of blood. We may first notice that vigorous ofi'shoot from the pathology of the seventeenth and eighteenth cen- turies, the mathematical or mechanical sect, which neglecting chemical and vital properties,' endea- voured to deduce a theory of disease from the me- chanical laws which the animal structure must obey, and the mathematical calculations by which they may be expressed. The founder was John Alphonse Borelli (6. 1608,(1;. 1679), the illustrious author of the work De Motu Animalium, in the latter part of which he endeavours to give but very unsuccessfully, a mechanical account of fever which he makes depend on obstruction of the glands by a nervous ferment. (Ed. Novissinia Lucrd Bat. 1710, Vol. 11. p. 297.) We rather takers one of the foremost of this sect Archibald Pitcaira (b. ]652,(/. 1723), who, in hi8 7?/e,w.„fa Afedeciiuc Phi/sio-Malhcmalica (Plagaj Comitiim, 1718) la- Mients the waste of time by physicians in vain hypo- theses, and claims that medical doctrines ought to be as infallibly true as are the propositions of^linclid Beginning with the last proposition of the tentli book of Huclid, that " every body is divisible ho proceeds to construct a series of definitions' and propositions, rigidly argued, but based upon the imperfect physiology of the daj-. He places all life in the circulatimi of the blood. Animal he-it is solely due to this. All diseases consist in changes