as rrequently being of singular service. When the thickening and enlargement of the prepuce, how- ever, cannot be reniovfd, by these or other means, an operation will become necessary. (See Phy- MOSIS.) One important fact, alleged by M. Ricord to be fully established,not only by his own investigations, but by those of Dr. Fricke, of Hamburg; Professor Lallenuind, of Montpellier; M. Ruef, of Strasburg; :iud M. Blandin, surgeon to the Ilotel-Uieu, is, that the number of secondary symptoms is not at all in relation to that of the primary symptoms developed at one and the same period. There will not (he asserts) be more constitutional symptoms after two, three, four, or five chancres, contracted al the same time, than after one. (Op. cit. p. 85.) With respect to the treatment of chancres in women, since it is difficult to keep dressings on the parts, the sores are to be frequently washed with tepid water, or some astringent lotion. Mr. Hunter notice^ their occasional extension into the vagina, and even suggests the prudence, in such a case, of introducing lint into the passage to pre- vent its constriction and closure. Bubo.—Mr. Hunter notices that what is now commonly understood by a bubo is a swelling taking place in the absorbing system, especially in the glands, and arising from the absorption of some [joison or other irritating matter. When such swellings take place in the groin, they are called l)uboes, whether they proceed from absorption or not. We are already aware that Mr. Himter believed the matter of gonorrhoea to be capable of communi- cating the venereal disease. Hence he explains, in the following terms, the three ways in which he thought a liubo might arise in consequence of absorption. He observes that the first and most simple manner is when the matter, either of a gonorrhoea or chancre, has only been applied to some sound surface, without having produced any local eflFect on the part, but has been absorbed im- mediately after its application. Mr. Hunter affirms that he has seen instances of this kind, though he confesses that they are very rare ; and that, in most cases, apparently of this nature, a small chancre may have existed. M. Ricord deems these hubons d'eiiiblee, as they are termed by the French, very rare; and if his statement, that the venereal disease can never be produced by the matter taken from them, and that secondary symptoms never follow them, be correct, doubt, I think, must be entertained about the Hunterian account of their production. (Op. cit. p. 149.) Mr. Wallace had frequently met with buboes, neither accompanied nor preceded by primary symptoms, but which had followed suspicious inter- 'ourse. He treated them as if they had been caused by the absorption of the venereal poison; and never liad occasion to regret the practice. " On the other hand (says he), I have known buboes, which were not preceded by primary symptoms, lo befolluived by secondary symptoms, when mercury had not been used in their treatment." (Op. cit. [). 346.) This, we see, disagrees with the investi- :;ations of M. Ricord. The second mode of absorption, or that taking place in a gonorrhnen, Mr. Hunter repre>ent3 as more frequent. That secondary symptoms do oc- casionally follow gonorrhrcii, is still by some ad- mitted, though whether they differ essentially from VENEREAL DISEASE. 939 those which follow true chancres is a point not yet settled by the holders of this opinion. Delpecll describes them as of the same nature; (Chb: CLiitiqua, t.i.); but his facility of belief in the multiplied effects of syphilis and gonorrhoea is almost unbounded. On a point of this kind, therefore, I should not attach much importance to his opinion. However, so far as Mr. Carraichael's experience goes, there is a difference, a part of which consists in the eruption being of the papular kind, as it is also after many instances of simple primary ulcers. (See Obs. on the Symptoms, S^c. of Venereal Diseases, 8vo. Lond. 1818.) Most surgeons of the present day only admit the possibility of secondary s3'mptoms when chancres are situated within the urethra, in cases supposed to be merely gonorrhoea; and this view, of course, leads to the recognition of secondary symptoms, not essentially different from those pre- senting themselves in consequence of chancres, in their more usual situations. {Ph. Ricord.) The third mode is the absorption of matter from an ulcer. This mode is by far the most common, and it proves, with many other circumstances, that a sore, or ulcer, is the most favourable for absorp- tion. Mr. Hunter believed that absorption was more apt to take place from sores on the prepuce, than those on the glans. A fourth mode of absorption is from a wound; a case, which, according to Delpech, is almost constantl)' followed by an eruption on the face, soon extending all over the body, and very quickly followed by sore-throat, periostoses, and pains in the bones. In shorty his idea is, that when the poison is absorbed from a wound, especially one that has not suppurated, its operation is pecu- liarly rapid and violent. {Chir. Cliniqiie, t. i. p. 334.) The matter of this poisonous sore is taken up by the absorbent vessels, and is conveyed by them into the circulation. In its passage through these vessels, it often affects them with the specific in- flammation. The consequence is the formation of buboes, which are venereal inflammations, or ab- scesses of the lymphatic glands or vessels. The sores resulting from their being opened, or sponta- neously bursting, are exactly similar to a chancre in their nature and effects, the only difference being in regard to size. As the lymphatic vessels and glands are irritated by the specific matter, before it has undergone any change in its passage, the inflammation produced, and the matter secreted, partake of the specific qualitj'. Whenever a bubo has arisen from any other cause than a chancre, if the swelling suppurate, and a person be inoculated with the matter, the experiment has no effect, whatever may be the period and the conditions in which the pus has been taken. (See Ph. Ricord, Mat. Fat. p. 140.) This author believes, however, that it does not necessarily follow that the matter must always be specific, when the bubo has been preceded by a chancre ; for, in order that the pus be of this quality, the bubo must not be the result of simple inflammation, sympathetic or continuous, but of absorption. In men, inflammation of the lymphatics, in con- sequence of clmncres upon the glans or prepuce, generally appear like a cord, leading along the Ijack of the penis from the sores. Sometimes they inllaiue, in consequence of the thickening and excoriation of the prepuce in gonorrhoea. The