fulfil the desired end, and thus bandages, sutures, ■uid even splints or other rigid apparatus como into use in the niana;;ement of wounds. Besides the reason just given for the use of these applications we have the additional one, that mere position and rest, however assured, cannot, in most cases, retain the sides of wounds in close enough apposition. liiintlaijcs are often highly useful, especially in giving sufipiirt and retaining dressings. These are of many kinds, adapted to the special require- ments of the case, and they are frequently com- hined with compresses, which, acting on the sides of the wound, help to keep them in contact. The " uniting bandages" of systematic writers, fitted for either horizontal or vertical wounds, are occa- sionally good. These are too well known to re- quire description here. The ancients employed bandages in the treat- ment of wounds to which they gave such distinc- tive titles as " incarnatrix " or '■ agglutinatrix," " retentrix," " expultrix," &c. Adhesive Plaster.—The soap, resin, lead, and isinglass plasters are used for retaining the lips ol wounds in contact. From resin we obtain adhe- siveness, but induce irritation and dirt. The late Mr. Liston, as is well known, introduced an ising- lass plaster which was transparent, unirritating, and easy of application, bat its want of adhesive- ness, and its being easily detached by moisture, renders it of little service. The following is the formula for the very admirable plaster of the United States Pharmacopoeia, for which the writer is indebted to Professor Gross, of Phila- delphia. "Resin, in fine powder, 6 troy ounces ; plaster of lead, 36 troy ounces ; the former being added to the latter, melted ov.er a gentle fire. The mixture is spread upon muslin, rolled up and kept in tin." " The litharge," he adds, is made of oxide of lead in fine powder, 30 troy ounces, olive oil, 56 troy ounces, and a sufficient quantity of water. The lead is sifted into the oil and half-a- pint of boiling water is added, the whole being boiled until a plaster is formed, a little boiling water being added from time to time during the process^"' This plaster is said to be much more adhesive than the British. It is well to shave and dry the part before the adhesive plasttr is to be applied. It is hardly necessary to add that such fantastic modes of applying adhesive plaster as some have employed, have now been abandoned, e.g., putting a stripe of phister along and parallel to either edge of the wound, and then sewing or lacing them together ; or attaching ribbons to the ends of the adhesive stripes, and knotting these over the woinid, or uniting the plaster by metal clasps. The idea, too, that erysipelas can be caused by adhesive plaster nmst be discarded, though slight erythema may. If judiciously applied ad- hesive plaster is capable of securing most accurate appoaition in superficial ivuwids, and is altogether very useful. But in many cases these measures are insnfli- cient to secure .accurate adjustment, or at least to maintain it, so we h;ive recmu'se to .Sitlures.—In furmer times it was customary to call adhesive plaster " the dry or bastard suture," as contra-distinguished fi;om " the bloody or true suture," in which the lips of the wound were pierced. It is to the latter we now attend. The object of sutures, properly so-called, is, by means of agents Iravtrsing the lips of the wound, to fix UNDS. 1031 them together in the most complete relationship. The ancient surgeons used the sutin-e frequently to staunch bleeding by the mutual pressure of the sides of the wound, and they were very minute in their description of such appliances. Such sutures were called " restrictiva " or " sanguinis suppressoria." All the sutures used now-a-days may bo thus designated : (1) the interrupted ; (2) the twisted; (3J the quilled. The '-continuous" suture is not now employed (except it may be after the L'a;sarian section) from its liability to come to pieces, and the impossibility of removing one stitch and leaving the rest. The " herring- hone " too, and the " zigzag " are useless. The fibula, or clasp of iron, g"ld, or brass, used by the Arabians and Romans, has also disappeared. Special methods of fastening sutures are used in particular wounds ; as the running knot for staphylorophy ; the "suture a anse " of Ledran ; that which M. Maisonneuve has descrilicd under the title of " en broche;" Pancoast's " plastic suture," Bozeman's '• button suture," and Sims's "clamp suture," &c.; but these cannot find a place here for want of space. The needles used for sutures are of different kinds, according to the material to be introduced and the kind of suture to be used. Straight and curved ; eyed at the hilt or near the point; having a double eye ; pointed with fixed or movable steel ; spear or trianoular shaped piercing ends, and grooved or not from the eye to the hilt to cover the thread. Some are hollow, and allow the metallic thread to traverse them ; and some possess various ingenious, but of:en troublesome, contri- vances for projecting the thread when it is wanted from the point. Sometimes the needle and the wire are annealed together, sometimes the needle is set in a handle and may have an eye to open and allow the escape of the thread. It would be endless, and somewhat useless, to describe all these, and even more difficult to ascribe each to its right- ful inventor ; but it may safely be said that for metallic sutures no better needle can be used than Professor Lister's very simple one, with a deep notch in its heel to allow of the sinking into it of the wire when it is twisted in order to fasten it. Pins, too, are used for sutures. Those used by entomologists answer admirably. Some have glass and (ithers porcelain heads, or wax is run on when they are to be used. The author has been in the way of using a very simple and efficient contri- vance'in substitution of the common pins used in the twisted suture. Strong steel wire, pointed at one end like a needle, is kept in lengths of 6 or 8 inches, and when going to be used the temper ia removed from the whole, except the sharp end, so that after having been passed through the tissues and drawn home, till a piece long eniiugli to remain clear of both lips of the wound is left for the twisting of the thread round them, the wire is cut with pliers, and the next suture introduced in the same way. Thus time is saved and any length of pin required is at once got. while a great saving in needles hs cflected, and the whole is very easy of accomplishmen t. If pins are employed a " [lince a verrou " for t;raRping them will be found most tiseful. This instrunu'nt is sometimes made so as to allow of the pin being fixed iuid held at ditfeienl angles. Silk, cotton, hemp, silver, inui, platinum, alumi- nium, and other metals are used for suture threads.