THYROID GLAND, DISEASES OF. 733 distinctly interlaced fibres, irregular and knobby on the surface; the other, a cavity, the parietes of which were composed of this osseous investment, and which had numerous slender fihiments extend ing across it like those of the spongy texture of bones. Between them was a small quantity of reddish fluid, of the consistence of syrup. (See Amlral, Precis d'Anat. pathol. t. i. p. 304.) In two cases, Alibert found, on the outside of the enlarged gland, a yellow fatty mass ; and, in a third instance, the gland itself formed a true sar- coma. (Aoio/. nat. t. i. p. 464, 4C5, folio, Paris, 11317.) I > ,J , , Simple bronchocele always signifies, in this coun- try, hypertrophy of the thyroid gland, which some- times not only occupies all tiie space from one angle of the jaw to the other, but forms a consider able projection on each side of the neck, advancing forward a good way bej'ond the chin, and forming an enormous mass, which hangs down over the chest. Tiie swelling, which is more or less un equal, general!}' has a soft spongy elastic feel, es- pecially when the disease is not in a very advanced state; but no fluctuation is usually perceptible, and the part is exceedingly indolent, The skin re tains nearly its ordinary colour; but, when the tumor is of very long standing and of great size, the veins of the neck become more or leas varicose. It is stated by Dr. Sacchi, of Treviglio, that simple hypertrophy may often be cured; but, if not dispersed, the gland becomes in time variously altered ; assuming either a scrofulous or an en- cysted character. The scrofulous goitre frequently attains an immense size; but does not give rise to corresponding inconvenience or danger. It is generally lobulated. In time, one or more of these lobes may become soft, and present a feel of flue tuation. This constitutes the soft or lymphatic goitre of authors. The structure has become vesicular, and contains fluid, which may be watery oralbuminous :—in a few cases it is more like milk or pus. Some goitres, however, having a feel like that of fluctuation, really have the consistence of a spongy substance, like that of the placenta, and do not contain fluid. According to Dr. Sacchi, some got.res undergo a partial softening, and it is a mis- take to suppose that they always become harder and harder the longer they continue. According to Prosser, the tumor generally be- gins between the eighth and twelfth years. It enlarges slowly during a few years; but, at last, it augments rather rapidly, and forms a bulky pen- dulous tumor. Women are far more subject to the disease than men, and the tumor is observed to be particularly apt to increase rapidly during their confinement in childbed. Sometimes bron- chocele affects the whole of the thyroid gland, that is to say, the two lateral lobes, and the intervening portion; and in this kind of case, it is not un- usual to remark three distinct swellings, for the iiiiist part of unequal size. Frequently, only one lube is affected; while, in many other cases, the three portions of the thyroid gland are all en- larged, and so confounded together, that they make, a.H it were, only one connected globular mass. "W'iien only one lobe of the thyroid gland is iiffi'cted, it may extend in front of the carotid ar- tery, Mud be lifted up by this vessel, so as to have tlie pulsatory motion of an aneurism. (J. nunis''s Siirrjicid Analnmy of the Head and Neck, p. 1!).), and Parisian Chir, Journ, vol. ii, p. 292 293.) Alibert believes that he first made the re- mark that the right lobe was more frequently en- larged than the left. {Nosol. nut. t. i. p. 465.) The ordinary seat of bronchocele, as Flajani re- marks, is the thyroid gland; but sometimes cysts are formed in the cellular membrane. {CoUez. d' Oss. t. iii. p. 277.) And Postiglione also observes that the swelling is sometimes encysted and filled with matter of various degrees of consistence, re- sembling honey, &c.; in some cases, it is emphy- sematous, or filled with air; and, in other instances, it is sarcomatous, having the consistence of a gland, which is enlarged but not scirrhous. These dif- ferent characters prove, says he, that the treatment ought not to be the same in all cases. (Memoria suUa Natura del Gozzo, p. 20.) Bronchocele is common in some of the valleys of the Alps, Apennines, and Pyrennees. Indeed, there are certain places where the disease is so frequent, that hardly an individual is totally ex- empt from it. Larrey, in travelling through the valley of Maurienne, noticed that almost all the inhabitants were affected with goiires of different sizes, whereby the countenance was deformed, and the features rendered hideous. {Mem. de Chir. mil. t. i. p. 123.) And Postiglione remarks that in Savoy, Switzerland, the Tyro], and Carinthia, there are villages in which all the inhabitants ^yithout exception have these swellings, the posi- tion and regularity of which are there considered as indications of beauty. (Memoria suUa Nalura del Gozzo, p. 22.) In many the swelling is so enor- mous that it is impossible to conceal it by any sort of clothing. A state of idiotism is another afiiiction which is sometimes combined wiih goiire in countries where the latter affection is endemic' However, all who have the disease are not idiotsj or cretins as they have been called; and in Swit- zerland, and elsewhere, it is met with in persons who possess the most perfect intellectual faculties. When bronchocele and cretinism exist together, Foder^, and several other writers, ascribe the af- fection of the mind to the state of the thyroid gland. (See Trails sur le Goitre et le Cretinisme, 8vo.' Paris, an 8.) However, this opinion appears to want foundation, since the mental faculties are from birth weak, and in many the idiotism is com- plete where there is no enlargement of the thyroid gland, or when the tumor is not bigger than a walnut, so that no impediment can exist to the circulation to or from the brain, {nurns on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 192.) The direct testimony of Dr. Reeves also proves that in countries where cretins are numerous' many people of sound and vigorous minds have' bronchocele. (See Dr. Reeves's Paper on Cretinism Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour. vol. v. p. 31.) Hence' as Mr. A. Burns remarked, the combination of bronchocele and cretinism must be considered as accidental; a truth that seems to derive confirma- tion from the fact that, in some parts of this coun- try, bronchocele is frequent wliere cretinism is seldom or never seen. Bronchocele is not confined to Europe : it is met with in almost every country on tlie globe. Profes- sor Barton, in histravelsamongstthclndianssettled at Oneida, in the state of New York, saw the com- plaint in an old woman, the wife of the chief of that tribe. From tliis woman Barton learned that bronchocclcs wore by no means uncommon amongst the Oneida Inilians, tlio complaint existing in