LITHOTOMY. 218 are cut through, so th.at the operator can feel the groove of the staff through the memhranoua por- tion of the urethra. Having distinctly felt with his nail the groove of the staff, the surgeon passes the knife along this finger and the nail until the point has pene- trated the membranous portion of the urethra and come into contact with the groove of the stalF. When the knife lias entered the groove, the operator ascertains by a slight motion of the point, that it remains in contact with the staff. Having assured himself of this important matter, he makes a small incision of three or four lines in length into the membranous part of the urethra. Many distinguished operators complete the operation with the same knife which serves to make the first incisions; but the writer thinks it more safe to employ a button-headed bistoury, and hence the necessity of making the small incision, just mentioned, into the membranous part of the urethra. Having made this incision, and taking care to keep the nail of the left index finger well in the groove of the staff, the surgeon abandons the knife and substitutes for it a button-headed bistoury, or Btraight-bladed knife armed at the extremity with a button, which prevents it from slipping out of the groove of the staff. This instrument he directs along his finger to the groove of the stafi^ and then fixes the button in the groove. This done, the knife is passed steadily onwards .until it reaches the end of the groove in the staff, dividing the deep fascia, the muscular fibres be- tween its layers, a small portion of the mem- branous part of the urethra, the prostatic portion, and notching obliquely the left side of the pro- state gland itself. In making this internal incision the handle of the bistoury must be depressed to- wards the lower angle of the wound, while its cutting edge is inclined outwards and downwards in the line of the external incision, the edge of the bistoury being kept in such a manner that it never deviates from the angle it would form with the ramus of tlie ischium. As soon as the bistoury enters the bladder a little urine commonly esoapesi The instrument is now withdrawn, exactly in the direction of the external wound, after which the incisions may be considered as being completed. During the withdrawal of the bistoury or knife no tissues are divided beyond those already cut for the purpose of entering the bladder. However, Mr. Fergusson advises, if the stone is supposed to be of considerable magnitude, that the blade should, in withdrawing it, be carried a little out of the gioove so as to increase the incision of the prostate. As a suflicient opening has now been nmde into the bladder, the surgeon's next business is to in- troduce the forceps and extract the stone. The left index finger which has been passed into the bladder, following the knife, serves to guide the forceps and at the same time to ascer- tain in most cases the position or the size of the calculus. Along this finger the closed forceps, which have been warmed by immersion in tepid water, is conducted directly on the stone. The foreign body usually lies on the posterior fundus of tlie bladder, and hence the handle of the forceps is to be somewhat elevated, while the in- strument is being opened, and one of the blades is slid underneath the calculus. The blades are then closed gently, and the operator proceeds to extract the stone. It may for the present be as- sumed, that no obstacle exists to the ready extrac- tion of the calculus. In such case the forceps are withdrawn slowly in the direction of the external wound, the instrument being moved backwards and forwards so as to dilate tlie parts gently, and being brought towards the lower angle of the ex- ternal wound in a sweeping direction, so as to follow the axis of the pelvis. When the stone has been extracted, the bladder must be carefully examined, lest any fragment or other urinary con- cretion remain behind, for which purpose the searcher may be employed with advantage. The operation of lithotomy may be considered as completed at this stage. The late Mr. Listen, whose example the surgeons of University College Hospital still follow, was in the habit of introduc- ing a gum elastic tube through the wound into the bladder, with a view of favouring the flow of urine and preventing its infiltration; but the use of this tube has not been generally adopted, and Mr. Fergusson states that it may be dispensed with altogether. Many modern operators, as it has been already observed, following the example of Cheselden, employ the same knife during every stage of the incisions; hence, when the external incisions have been completed by the division of the membranous portion of the urethra, the knife is not withdrawn, but its handle is slightly depressed and the blade is carried onwards until the point is stopped by the closed end of the stafi:' in the cavity of the bladder.] Mr. Allan, who is a strenuous advocate for using the knife instead of the gorget, directs us, after laying bare the urethra and bringing the staff so as to form a right angle with the patient's body, to feel that the instrument is fairly lodged in the bladder. The operator is to use the fore- finger of his left hand as a director in feeling for the groove in the staff and in distinguishing the prostate gland, and with this finger he is to de- press the rectum and direct the deeper part of his dissection. Feeling the gland with the point of the forefinger of the left hand and the groove of the staff in the upper part of the wound, the as- sistant is desired to steady his hand, and the operator, holding his knife as he does a writmg pen, his fingers an inch and a half from the point, turns up its edge towards the staff, and strikes its point through the membranous part of the urethra into its groove, half an incli before the prostate gland. He now turns the back of the knife to the staff, slides it a little backwards and forwards in the groove, that ho may be sure it has fairly entered; then shifts the forefinger with which he guides the incision, places it under tlie knife, and always keeps it before its point, so as to prevent the rectum from being wounded; he then late- ralizes the knife, enters the substance of the pro- state, is conscious of running the scalpel through its solid and fleshy substance, and judges by the finger of the extent of the incision which he now makes. The urine flows out; he slips his finger into the opening, withdraws the scalpel, and giyes it to an assistant, who hands him the forceps wliich he passes into the bladder, using his left hand which is still within the wound, as a conductor. The forceps instantly encounter he staff, which serves to conduct them safely into the the forelinger of