PROSTATE (J LAND. 481 iu form, which may result I'roiu two couditious— first, either lobe may protrude greatly beyond tlie others, as just alluded to; or, independent_ tumors may be foimd embedded in it, or partially so, springing from the surface, and forming very sali- ent projections in any direction, most commonly, liowever, towards the cavity of the bladder. From the examination of between 200 and 300 specimens, I find that the lateral lobes and the median portion are about equally liable to be affected; and that while the posterior part of the gland is commonly, the anterior part is only rarely, enlarged. In any of these conditions, the urethra, as it passes through the prostate, may be diverted a little to the right or left of the middle line, by pressure from the most enlarged part; the prostatic portion may be increased in length (necessarily with the increased length of the prostate itself), and the antero-posterior diame- ter of the canal is often much increased by reason of the enlargement of the lateral lobes, so that it is more capacious than natural, although effectually obstructed by the lateral pressure. And the result is, in almost all cases (there are a few exceptions), that the contents of the bladder are more or less retained. In consistence, there is usually some change; the hypertrophied prostate is most commonly more iirm and dense to the touch than the healthy; and to this rule there are but few exceptions. When a prostate weighs about 7 drachms, it must be -regarded as an example of hypertrophy, the average weight of a healthy prostate being about 4J drachms. Tlie most commonly-occurring weight, when the complaint may be presumed to have existed some ten or twelve years, appears to be between 9 and 12 drachms, or more than double the natural size. Nevertheless, many cases exceed this limit considerably. The largest example of hypertrophy known is 9 or 10 ounces, or about 75 drachms. The size of such a mass, forming a pre- paration now in the Museum of University Col- lege, is nearly that of a cocoa-nut; but such an example is extremely rare. In these varied cir- cumstances the form and condition of the internal meatus are much altered. When the median por- tion is predominajit, it acquires a crescentic form, the convexity of which is directed upwards. When the right lobe considerably exceeds in size the left, the crescent has its convexity to the left side, and so on; when an outgrowth from the median portion projects much, or has a narrow peduncle, which is not very common, it appears to be forced against the neck of the bladder by the effort of micturition, and the obstruction is rendered still more complete; and even when such an out- growth is extremely small, the effect may be almost complete obstruction. As a result of this obstruction, if unrelieved by art, the bladder be comes distended, its walls thickened, often sac- culated; and its mucous lining is the subject of chronic inflammation. The ureters may become dilated, the pelvis of the kidney also, and the renal organs themselves seriously injured by the pressure upon them, and by the irritation which it sooner or later sets up. As regards the minute elements of the hyper trophied prostate, we find none present but those existing in the healthy organ. They are only arranged in different forms and proportions. In some cases the fibrous stroma of the organ largely in cxccsa over the glandular structures; VOL. n. sometimes this is arranged iu isolated masses forming independent tumors. Sometimes the glandular structures, althougli this is much less common, are developed beyond the fibrous stroma, and then the organ is soft and succulent; in the former condition it is close and firm in texture. In all cases the gland follicles are dilated, often loaded with inspissated secretion, and contain the well-known prostatic concretions. (For a detailed account of this subject see "Diseases of the Pro- state," before referred to, chap, v.) It is remarkable that in the great majority of hypertrophied prostates, the isolated tumors above referred to are present. They are simple fibrous structures and have no relation to cancerous formations. They may be found in any part of the organ, but are perhaps more numerous in the lateral lobes, especially at their posterior extre- mities, than elsewhere. Occasionally they are embedded in an enlarged median portion. It often happens that the small multiple eminences so frequently seen at the neck of the bladder in the site of the uvula are due to these small tumors there, situated under the mucous membrane and a few submucous fibres, there being no enliirge- ment of the median portion. When the swelling is large and single, it is more commonly hyper- trophy or outgrowth of that part. Occasionally they are separated by an interval from the prostate itself. A space of half an inch has been seen to intervene between such a tumor and the adjacent gland; a narrow line of duct, with other vessels, and a little tissue alone connecting them. Their size ranges between a tenth of an inch and about five-eighths of an inch in diameter. Their density is rather greater than that of the prostatic tissue proper; they are firmer to the touch, and more compact. Examined by the naked eye, or under the microscope with powers of different degrees, we can discover no structural peculiarities as com- pared with the prostate' itself; they possess all the elementary tissues common to the normal prostate, and tliey possess no tissue not belonging to it. Very rarely, indeed, a polypous growth has been found attached to the verumontanum. A specfmen is in the museum of St. Thomas's Hos- pital ; one is mentioned by Rokitansky; and another occurred in the writer's own practice. {Palli. Trans., vol. vii. p. 250.) On the subject of the causes of chronic enlarge- ment of the prostate gland, it appears that little certain is known, excepting that it is seldom or never met with under the age of fifty-five. After a careful study of all the alleged causes of this complaint, and their name is legion, I am satisfied that we are ignorant of any direct cause. I am confident we have no ground for believing that syphilis, gonorrhosa, sexual excess, sexual continence, gout, rheumatism, seden- tary habits, congestion of pelvic vessels, or stric- ture of the urethra, all of which have been re- garded as causes, have any such relation to it. As Mr. S. Cooper wrote in the last edition of this work, " it seems to me better to confess that the etiology of this complaint is unknown." It may he remarked in conclusion, that there seems to be some analogy between the simple fibrous tumors uf the prostate, and those of the uterus, which opens a field for speculation respecting their origin. {Med. Chir, Trans., vol. xl., a paper by the writer.) 1 I