IRIS, INFLAMMATION OF. 103 By far the best marked specimens of iritis owe their origin to the poison of sypliilis. Syphilitic iritis may be either acute or chronic; the chronic condition may fi)rm a sequel of the acute, or it may present this type from its commencement. Be- tween the two extremes we have every shade of variety. The disease ma)' exhibit all its charac- teristic symptoms in a few days, or work its effects gradually during a period of many months. The commencement and progress of tliis disease are usually unattended with anything like severe pain; some slight feeling of fulness and uneasiness in the globes is ail that is complained of This absence of suffering may be regarded as one of the characteristics of the specific form of this disease, although striking exceptions occur, in which there is considerable pain, lachrymation, and intolerance of light. The degree in which vision is interfered with cannot always be measured by the amount of change in the iris, but depends, to a certain ex- tent, upon the degree in which the deeper struc- tures are involved in the disease. If there is an opportunity of tracing the objective symptoms from the commencement, the surface of the iris is ob- served to lose its natural brilliancy and to change its colour. This is particularly noticeable if it be blue, in which case it assumes a yellowish green shade; if hazel, the alteration of tint is less ob- vious ; the movements of the pupil are at first sluggish, and soon cease altogether ; the sclerotic vessels are slightly injected, particularly round the cornea, causing a pink tinge ; but the vascularity, though similar in kind, is much less marked than in rheumatic iritis. As the disease progresses, the structure of the iris can no longer be traced; the irregularities of its surface are filled in and coated over with a layer of fibrine: this deposit is usually thickish, and much marked at the pupil- lary margin. In the next stage, at one or more points, a distinct roundish elevation, of a reddish brown colour, or of a deep yellow, may be seen, forming a tubercle, which becomes organised with new and distinct vessels. This may gradually in- crease in size, and may even in some rare instances develope an abscess in its interior. These tuber- cles vary very much in colour, size, situation, and amount of organisation ; in very acute cases, and particularly when recurring in very feeble per- sons, they are of a light colour—viz. a yellow or pale brown, of a large size and numerous, without much trace of organisation. In other instances, When the disease is less acute, the powers of the system in better preservation, and the syphilitic origin well marked, there is often only one tubercle, of a reddish brown colour, round and clearly de- fined, highly organized, and usually near the pupillary margin. More rarely a tubercle forms near the ciliary attachment of the iris, and may thrust itself against the cornea and sclerotic, pro- ducing prominence and thickening in that situation. Sometimes it is difficult to trace any distinct tu- bercle, and there seems an elevation and thickening of the proper tissue rather than any deposition superadded. At an early stage of the disease, adhesions form between the pupillary margin and the capsule of the lens ; so that if the pupil is dilated by belladonna, it presents a peculiarly irregular and scolloped form, tied down at some pouits and drawn out at others, and varied accord- ing, to the number and position of the adhesions. Lnter m the disease, the adhesions become so firm and numerous, and even continuous, around the pupil, that dilatation is no longer possible ; at the same time the circle of the pupil is much dimi- nished, and a thin coating of fibrine covers the capsule of the lens more or less completely, so as to cause, in extreme cases, a closed pupil. This deposit on the capsule has usually a whitish and spotted appearance. This change seems to be rather due to an altered condition in the lens within the capsule itself than to any deposit upon its surface; hence it is, that when once this takes place, it never quite recovers its transparency. Sometimes patches of uvea adhere to and obstruct the pupillary opening. This to a cursory observer has the appearamce of a portion of clear pupil; the extent to which the pupil is closed and the lens loses its trans- parency, depends upon the severity of the attack. When the disease has thus far run its course, the tubercles of lymph become absorbed, but the iris does not resume its natural condition; its colour is permanently changed, and its tissue has lost its healthy aspect and its normal structure, and is found to be thinned and softened and inelastic, so as to tear through with the greatest ease, and to offer no resistance to the passage of a needle or a hook through it. This becomes an embarrassing circumstance in the formation of an artificial pupil. Sometimes the surface of the iris is found convex and bulged forwards, with the exception of the pupillary margin, which is drawn in and cupped ; this appears to be due to an accumulation of fluid behind it in the posterior chamber. If in addition to the uniform coating of Ijrmph upon the surface, distinct raised tubercles of a roundish form and of a reddish brown colour are seen, such a case may be taken as the type of the more usual form of syphilitic iritis, and is generally accompanied by other constitutional signs of secondary syphilis. Wherever the disease arises idiopathically or from injury or struma or rheumatism, the effusion is more uniform on the surface and does not pre- sent the round, elevated, oraanized, and defined tubercle, and is accompanied with more evidence of sclerotic vascularity, in proportion to the results in the iris, than in the syphilitic form. In some exceptional cases the entire texture of the iris is not involved in the disease, although the surface i3_ overlaid with lymph, the proper tissue of the iris retains some of its natural structure and func- tion, as evidenced by the fact, that it moves on the application of the stimtdus of light, though to a very limited extent, as if struggling underneath the superimposed deposit. During the progress of iritis, the deeper textures of the eye are more or less involved ; even in the early stage of the disease there is considerable dim- ness of vision and musca; abimdantly floating before the sight. This diumess is usually greater than the mechanical change and deposits in the pupil will account for, which seems to prove that the choroid coat and retina and the media are impaired by an extension of the disease to these parts; and in the latter stages there is often abundant proof that all these structures have been damaged, and the balance between the humours and their containing case has beeu lost, the result of which is softeiiinc of the globe, a result hv no means uncommon when iritis has been allowed to pursue its course unchecked. The cornea is generally unaffected, except in the congenitallv