meclmnical means alone, or by tenotomy and iiieclmnical means combined. The advantage of toiiotomy is, that it materially shortens the period of treatment. If mechanical means alone be decided upon, it will certainly occupy six months or more, during which time the patient must not be allowed to walk, except with the aid of crutches; whereas by the assistance of tenotomy, this will certainly be shortened to six weeks. In the mechanical treatment ynu may use an ordinary Scarpa s shoe, with the vertical steel sprino- placed on the inside of the leg, or the steel bar"with a double cogwheel movement. The horizontal steel bar, to which the toe-strap is fastened, is also placed cn the inner side of the sole-plate, so that the anterior part of the foot may be drawn inwards. A leather pad, or a large linen roller, sliouM be placed under the arcii of the foot. If tenotomy be employed, the tendons of the extensor-longus and peronei muscles should be divided, and in the more severe cases the tendo- Achillis will also require division at a later period, the treatment being divided into two stages. The after treatment in these cases will consist in the constant use, for about two years, of the valyus boot above described—the use of the Scarpa's shoe being also continued at night, till the arch of the foot has not only been completely restored, but has acquired a fair amount of strength—the employment of frictions, diminished walking ex- ercise or long standing, and other measures to improve the gentol health. In the more severe forms of valgus in the adult tenotomy is indispensable, and several tendons will require division. It will not be sufficient to divide the extensor-longus and peronei tendons, but in some cases it will also be necessary to divide the anterior tibial, the extensor pollicis tendons, and also the tendo-Achillis; the latter operation being done at a later stage of treatment. In such cases it is necessary to divide the treat- ment into two stages; and either the Scarpa's shoe, or a modified form of valgus splint apparatus, may be einploj'ed. Class 2.—In rachitic na/gus it is seldom neces- sary to divide any tendons, mechanical support alone affording all the relief of which these cases are susceptible. Class 3.— fji paralytic valgus, when of long stand- ing, the tendo-Achillis frequently requires division, because the foot cannot be flexed beyond the rii;ht-angle, but it is seldom necessary to divide the extensor or peronei tendons. Mechanical support will, ill those cases, frequently be required during the remainder of life. Class 4.—In spasmodic valgus, when severe and of long standing, it may be necessary to divide all the anterior and outer tendons, and also the tendo- Achillis. Class 5.—In traumatic valgus, i.e. after fracture of the lower end of the tibia and fibula, and in- juries involving the aukle-joint ; and also Class 6.—In cases amsequenl upon disease of the ankle-joint or surrounding tissues, such as scrofu- lous aljscesses, connected or not connected with periosteal or bone-disease, the probability of re- gaining motion will depend very much upon the condition of the ankle-joint. The extent to which wie joint has been implicated and its structures destroyed must therefore be carefully considered before deciding on tenotomy ; but in many cases VOJ„ Ji. TALIPES. gjjg in which the ankle joint has not been primarily involved, and even when motion at the ankle- joint is extremely limited, and the foot much everted, with more or less elevation of the heel —a very frequent condition — an unexpected amount of improvement will follow division of the tendo-Achillis, either by itself, or conjointly with the extensor and peronei tendons. When the ankle-joint has been primarily diseased, or when it has been materially involved in the inflam- matory mischief resulting either from accident or disease; and a condition of anchylosis, whether fibrous or osseous, has become established, all ope- rative procedures will be counter-indicated as a general rule, and mechanical support will be alone relied upon to prevent increase of the deformity, and affbrd some assistance in walking. Tlie after-treatment in all these diff"erent classes of cases will be essentially similar to that pre- viously referred to, varying, of course, according to the circumstances in individual cases. It will con- sist in the continuance of mechanical support, special exercises, manipulations, frictions, and the employment of galvanism in some cases of paralysis, especially in infantile paralysis, where some in- dications of spontaneous improvement exist. By attention to these means the tendency to relapse will be effectually controlled. EQUINO-VALGUS AND CALCANEO-VALGU.S. Equino-valgus is characterised by elevation, and calcaneo-valgus by depression, of the os calcis, co- existing with eversion of the anterior part of'the foot.^ In equino-valgus, eversion of the anterior portion of the foot—the valgus portion of the de- formity—is the predominant condition ; but in calcaneo-valgus, depression of the os calcis the calcaneous portion of the deformity is the predominant condition. Hence I have con- sidered it advisable to make the few observations called for in the description of these compound varieties, when describing in detail the external characters and morbid anatomy of the simple forms of talipes—viz. valyus and calcaneus, of which these compound varieties are but slight modifications. The influence of contraction of the tendo-Achillis in modifying the external characters of valgus, and in materially adding to the complexity of this de- formity as to its mechanical conditions, and the alterations in the relative position of the bones in severe cases, I have especially adverted to in de- scribing both the congenital and non-coiigeni(al forms of valgus. In consequence of the frequency of contraction of the tendo-Achillis in both the congenital and non-congenital forms of valgus it woiiM seem advisable, in the nomenclature of de- formities of the foot, either to do away with cquiuo- valgus as a separate variety, or materially to add to its importance by classifying under this term a very- large number of the cases hitherto described as simple valgus. My own inclination is to adopt the former course, and therefore I generally speak of cases of talipes valgus as existing without con- traction of the tendo-Achillis. Calcanko-VALGUS — dcprcssion of the heel with eversion of the anterior portion of the foot is but a slight and unimportant modification of talipes calcaneus, a variety of club-foot which I nm about to describe. The description of this com- pound variety, therefore, if it wore of suflicient importance to require any special dcscrintion Y Y ' '