126 JOINTS, DISEASES OF. inflammation has been so violent as to cut off tlie nutrient supply ; the latter over those portions less powerfully affected, and in that cartilage covering the yet normal bone, to which the action spreads in the same way as it does to the synovial mem- brane. The cartilage which has suffered degene- ration, and which lies over the focus of mflammation, is detached with the articular lamella by the osteifs itself, and is frequently pushed by a collection ot pus, or a growth of granulations into the joint- cavity, in which it is found lymg loose and fat y, its formerly attached surface feeling gntty, like sand-paper, from the adherence of osseous matter. (See BarwcU, Treatise on the Joitits, p. 294.) 3. Disease of cartilage primarily comraencmg in itself, of the nature of inflammation and ulceration. This primary change is attributed to the action of its own vessels; this is the opinion of SirB. Brodie, Liston, and Mayo, all of whom have observed true vascularisation of cartilage. This condition, however, is considered to be extremely rare, and according to Mr. Erichsen is certainly not one ot the more common forms of joint disease, seldom occurring except in the more chronic stages ot arthritis. Indeed, some writers altogether deny that any change whatever commences m Wie car- tilages as a primary stage of disease. On tins point Mr. Barwell observes,—" Most works on diseases of the joints contain a part devoted to those maladies which have their especial seat in the cartilages; and yet nothing can be more sure than that, of all the joint diseases which fall under the surgeon's notice, not one originates m the car- tilage It has been seen that an inflammatory action commencing in the synovial membrane, or in the bone, will spread to the cartilage and set up an ulceration of that structure; it is also well known that in the dead-house and dissecting-room we frequently find breaches of continuity in various articular cartilages which were accompanied by no symptom during life. The joints in which such conditions are found have been perfectly free from any pain or any diminution of mobility, and the neighbouring tissues have been perfectly un- touched by any disease whatever. Thus we come to the inevitable conclusion, that disease confined to the cartilage gives rise to no symptoms; and we must ask whether disease, which has commenced elsewhere and passes to the cartilage, may give any sign whereby we can tell whether or no the cartilage be diseased." subject is further discussed by Mr. Barwell but we\hink his question will be best answered by the followinff observations of Mr. rime . " Destrucin of the substance of cartilage may take place without the slightest trace of disease m oth restructures, and as the result of actions con- fined to the cartilage itself; in which nee it is said to be original or prtmary; or ^^ ^^^J ^^ the consequence of acute, chronic, or bc^oJubus synovitis, or of inflammat^ion of the PO^;^ to which the cartilage adheres, or ot f ^ generation of the joint-ends o^""^' f „ called sccondar;^. The destraction ^^' 'l^^^y either original or secondary; it may f rapid or very slow, constituting acute or chro c destruction; U may be limited or extensive; it may be superficial and limited, or sup^ff^^ ""f^^^f" sive; or it may go through the whole t »cl^ness of part of the cartilage, and thus penetrate to the bone. Though it most frequently commences on tlie iree surface, it may commence in the middle of the substance of the cartilage, or, if it proceed from disease of the bone, on the attached surface. It may be unattended with the slightest vestige ot disease of the synovial membrane or bone ; it may even be cured by the unassisted efforts of nature, without the occurrence of any exudation, by the formation of a fibro-nucleated membrane from the substance of the cartilage itself; or it may be an accompaniment of disease of the synovial membrane or bone, ending in total destruction of the joint. It is very remarkable that in all these varieties, the structural changes in the cartilage are found, on microscopical examination, to be similar, con- sisting in changes in the structure and arrangement ofthe cells, and alterations in the hyaline substance. (See Prin. and Prac. of Surgery, ed. 2, p. 426.) The investigations of Rainey, of Goodsir, and of Redfern, have proved that cartilage, like other extravascular tissues, is subject to other transforma- tions, independent of the prolongation of vessels into it As was first pointed out by Goodsir, de- struction of cartilage is always accompanied by en- largement,changcofform,andirregulararrangement of the cells. They become larger, rounded, or oviform; and instead of two or three nucleated cells in their interior, contain a mass of them. Xlie enlarged corpuscles at the surface burst and dis- charge their contents, so that the disintegi'ated surface presents a series of cavities. The matrix of the cartilage now softens, and, accordmg to Red- fern, splits up into fibres or bands, which become nucleated. The nuclei become elongated and in- corporated with the fibres of the split-up hyaline substance: and this is one of the most remarkable transformations of the nuclei which have as yet been observed. A species of fatty degeneration also takes place in the nuclei, as pointed out by Rainev; they become converted into fatty granules and into fat-globules. Their conversion into drops of oil was first described by Mr. William Adams, in 1846, in Mr. South's translation of Chelius Surgery. (See Trans. Path. Soc. vo . ii.) Ihis fatty degeneration of cartilage is justly considered a result of defect of nutrition, and he ps to so ten and break down the structure of he cartilage. Sometimes the cartilage is infiltrated by amorphmis animal mineral matter, chiefly salts of hnie, and these are occasionally seen in the eel walls. In Ire advanced stages of disease of cartilage masses of porcellaneous deposit are found attached to e ends of the bones in plates and layers, taking the place of the eroded cartilage. Such, then, are he changes which cartilage undergoes ; and for furt lei information on the subject we must refer to the writings of the authors whose names we have We'now come to speak of another set of changes whicli produce a soft, pulpy, and vascular fibro- plastic deposit of a greyish, ashy, or rcddish-bro«i colour, with whitish streaks of a firmer material running through it in various directions, and which takes Uie place of the cartilage that has been removed, or that has undergone fibro-cellular de. generation. On examination under ''-^ ^ this will be found to be composed Pl^^ "'f^I with cartilage cells intermixed, and ^v>th the s bja cent bone in a state of disintegration and so tening. T is ondition of joints Mr. Enchscn belie^-es to be analogous to the " pulpy degeneration ot the synovial membrane " of Sir Benjamin Brodie,-an