858 URiNR, incontinl;nck of. against Mrs. Steevens's Medicine, 8vo. Loud. 1739 ; and Supplement, 1740. N. Hultne, a safe and easy llcniedy for the Stone, &c. 4to. Lond. 1778. Wm. Butler, Method of Cure fur the Stone, chiefly by in- iections, 12mo. Edin. 1754. B. Langrish, Physical Experiments upon Brutes, in order to discover a safe Method of dissolving; Stones in the Bladder by Injec- tions, 8vo. Lond. 1746. J. Jurin, Efl'ects of Soap- ley, taken internally for the Stone, 2d edit, with an Appendix, 12mo. Lond. 1745. F. Schreiber, Be Medicamento h J. Steevens, contra Calculum, (livul- gato inefficaci et noxio, GOtt. 1744. Murra)/ Forbes, A Treatise upon Gravel and Gout, with an Examina- tion of Dr. Austin'sTheory of Stone, an Inquiry into the Operation of Solvents, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1793. W. Austiv, A Treatise on the Origin and component Parts of the Stone, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1791. T. Beddoes, On the Nature and Cure of Calculus, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1793 J. S. Dorsey, An Essay on the Lithontnptic Virtues of the Gastric Liquor. 8vo, Philadelphia, 1802. M. Girardi, de Uva Ursina, ejus que et Aqua; Calcis Vi lithontriptica, &c. Patav. 1764. Scheele,\n Stockholm Trans. Fourcroy, in Syst^me des Connois- sances Chimiques, 1801. WoUaston, Pearson, anA Brande, in fhil. Trans, and Journal of Science and Arts, vols. vi. and viii. &c. A. Marcet, On ti,e Che- miral History and Medical Treatment ot Calculous Disorders, Svo. Lond. 1817 : a work full of valuable information. Wilson Philip, in Medical Trans, vol. vi. Dr. Henry, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. C. Scudamore, On Gout, &c. edit. 3. J?. Magendie, K^cherches Physiologiques et M^dicales sur les Causes, &c. de la Gravelle, 8vo, Pans, 1818. Ph. v. Walther, Ueber die Harnsteinc, in Journ. fur Chir. b. i Berlin 1820. ^. Coi?/«nrf//MicAi^sn, On the Com- parative'infrequency of Urinary Calculi among Sea- faring People, vid. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ix. R. ,Smith, A Statistical Enquiry into the Frequency of Stone in the Bladder in Great Britain and Ireland, vid. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. W. Prout, An En- ouirv into the Nature and Treatment of Gravel, Cal- culus &c. 8V0. Lond. 1821: a work abounding in original valuable observations. J. WiUon, On the Structure and Physiology of the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, and the Nature and Treatment of tlieir Uisea.es, Svo. Lond. 1821. /. P. Frank, On Urinary Calculi, see Journ. of Forei?n Med. No. xix. Sir Beliamin Brodie, On Dis. of the Urinary Organs, 1) 166 &c ed. 2,8vo. Lond. 1835. John Green Crosse, On the Formation, Constituents, and Extraction of Urinary Calculus, 4to. Lond. 1835. Thomas Kmr, Lithotrity and Lithotomy compared, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1832 Dr. Yelloly's Analysis, in Phil. Trans. And Remarks on the tendency to Calculous Diseases, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1829. iGoldingBird, oxi Urinary Deposits, edit 5 Edited by Edmund Lloyd Birkett, M.U., 1857 A. H. Hassan, M.D., The Ujine in Health and Disease. Lionel Beale, F.R.S On Kidney Diseases and Urinary Deposits, 1868. J. L. W. Thudichum, M.D., Pathology. of the Urine, 1868. Holmes, Syst. of Surgery, vol. iv. 1861.J URINE, INCONTINENCE OF.—[Properly employed, this term is applicable to four different abnormal conditions affecting the urinary bladder. Incontinence signifies total or partial inability to retain a normal quantity of urine, no marked in- flammatory condition of the mucous lining ot the bladder being present. It is thus to be con- trasted with the condition known as retention ot urine on the one hand, and from undue irritability of the bladder on the other. In the latter case the organ is unable to retain its contents, not because there is any loss of power in the retaining appara- tiis, but because, owing almost invariably to the presence of some degree of inflammation in the inner coat, the presence of urine is felt to be irri- tating, and the bladder acts in consequence. Tlie first form of incontinence to be noticed is that which results from central paralysis, the effect either of injury or of disease. Although this most commonly produces retention of urine, yet it some- times occasions paralysis of the retaining muscular apparatus of the neck of the bladder and of the urethra; and the urine leaves the viscns as fast as it enters by the ureters. When the paralysis is complete, as happens after injury to the spinal cord, retention is always produced. It appears to bo only in a few exceptional cases of partial para- lysis that true incontinence of urine is present. It is obvious, therefore, that this condition may affect individuals of all ages, although it is met with chiefly in those of middle and advanced life. As far as my own observation is concerned I believe it is more frequently met with in those functional disorders of the nervous system which arise from exhaustion, from sexual excesses, and the like, than in connection with the organic changes of the brain which appear late in life. The second form is a very rare one, and affects the aged onl)'. It is due to a peculiar enlargement of the prostate gland by which the internal meatus of the urethra is so expanded as to prevent the accumulation of urine, whence incontinence results. Almost invariably the result of enlarged prostate is retention of urine, and this may become so con- siderable that a quantity of surplus urine maj' be running off constantly; or this may occur during sleep only, or during muscular efforts of the bodvi This condition, however, is not incontinence, and is not included by the definition piven above. It is a state of retention; the bladder is gorged with urine, and a portion overflows. It is of the utmost importance to guard against the common error of confounding these two states. Many a patient afilicted with retention, whose bladder was com stantly overflowing, has been led by this circum- stance to suppose that the organ was empty; and frequently the medical attendant has been similarly misled. It should be held as an axiom, the im- portance of which it is impossible to over-estimate, that an involuntary flow of urine, indicates retention, not incontinence. The third form is that which depends upon me- chanical distension of the neck of the bladder: as by the presence of a calculus which is partly vesical and partly urethral, so that the urine dribbles by its side and is thus constantly voided. Over-disr tension of the neck of the bladder in the female for extraction of calculus has also been followed by incontinence. The abnormal flow of urine which is due to fistula, vesico-vaginal, vesico-rectal, &c. is not considered as incontinence in the common sense of the term. . The fourth form of incontinence of unne is that which affects children and young adults. It is not a total but a partial one, and occurs during sleep. The patient, without being aroused, passes water once, twice, or more, during the hours of resU and this frequently in spite of all the precautions which are taken to avoid it. It is extremely com- mon in early life, but sometimes unfortunately continues even after puberty, in which case it w generally an obstinate, and always a verj Q« tressing complaint. Treatment of Incontinence depending on par^. lysis.—A successful treatment of this must here depend mainly on the benefit which in disorder of the central organs is cipable ot ceiving. As has been stated above, n in connection with functional than with org*m paralysis that we meet with this f«™; there is in such cases reason to hope thai _^ patient may derive benefit from treatment- i impossible therefore to describe it in this pi« .