1005 VISION. may suffer from this affection for several generations. In hydrocephalus the tracts of the optic nerves which run below the lower sur- face of the ventricles are unduly stretched during the distention of the latter by Huid, and the tha- lami optici and crura cerebri are pressed asunder. The floor of the third ventricle, the tuber cine- reum, the chiasma, the sella turcica, and the ad- joining part of the sphenoid bone, suffer likewise from the distension. Atrophic changes following choroiditis, and anaemia and atrophy of the optic disc and retina, are the changes most frequently observed simultaneously. Simitlaiion of amaurosis, or of amblyopia, (1) "/ hotli eyes may occur in insane persons, or with a view of obtaining a certificate of blindness. We may suspect simulation if both the patient's pupils are active, and if he states that he cannot perceive light. If he says that he can see light, but cannot recognise objects, we may be unable to express an opinion. (2) Of one eye, generally of tJie right.—If the pupil of the supposed blind eye (provided it be not under the influence of a mydratic, and the fellow eye be thoroughly excluded from light), does not contract when suddenly exposed to strong light, but does do so when both eyes are open, we can pronounce the first eye to be blind. We should, if any doubt remains after having carefully examined the" supposed " blind eye, place a strong prism, e.g. one of l^-*, with the refracting angle downwards, before the patient's good eye, causing him to look at the flame of a candle, when tlie simulation at once becomes apparent if the patient states that he sees two flumes (attributing them to the action of the prism on the second eye.) Amaurosis or amblyopia, wiih disease of the spinal cord.—Tenderness on pressure in the region of the first cervical vertebra, with impairment of vision, has been observed to precede the amaurosis. The ophthalmoscopic symptoms in advanced cases are anaemia and atrophy of the optic discs and retina. The atrophy of the optic discs is in some cases the first of a series of symptoms arising from spinal changes. Much benefit has been derived in some cases by repeated blisters to the cervical region. The post-mortem examination of some cases has shown atrophy of the trunks of the optic nerves, and morbid changes, e.g. atrophy in the thalami optici. As causes have been observed—injuries, inflam- mation, atrophy. Reflcjc amaurosis, from " irritation,'" originating in one of the sensitive nerves, or from "■irritation " of oilier parts of the nervous system.—Cases of this group occur not unfrequcntly without any apparent changes in the eye (the optic disc, among other parts, appearing healthy), or in the functions of the cerebrum or cerebellum. The amblyopia or amaurosis is attributed to alterations in the tuber- cula quadrigemina, which are supposed to be the result of " irritation " elsewhere, e.g., of injuries to the spinal cord, of irritation of the frontal nerve, of neuralgia of the face, of gastralgia, of irritation caused by worms. Tiie ajipearance of the disturbance of vision after such irritation, its increase or decrease keeping step with the irritation, and its removal or relief on cessation of the supposed cause, justify the assumption of n reflex amaurosis. General or ConslHulional Causes.—Amaurosis or amblyopia appears—{a) Among other symptoms of albuminuria, (i) During syphilis, (c) During diabetis mellitus. {d) Tiirough embolism. The morbid changes comprised under a, h, c, and d, when localising themselves in the eyeball itself, assume certain characteristic forms, e.g., that of effusion of lymph in syphilis, that of peculiar in- filtrations, with rupture of blood-vessels in albu- minuria, &c., &c. If, on the appearance of amau- rosis or amblyopia, we find the eyes intact, and after examination of either organs discover albu- minuria, syphilis, &c., we adopt the same general treatment which would have been carried out if the eyes had been attacked. (e) During irregularities of menstruation, dur- ing pregnancy, parturition, or lactation. Sudden amaurosis, appearing about the time when menstruation was expected, has been ob- served in two cases to subside again after the re- appearance of that function. Vision returned gradually in both cases, and has remained nor- mal. Cases of recurrent amblyopia or amaurosis, com- mencing at some period of pregnancy, and subsiding after parturition, have repeatedly been recorded. A frequent cause of amblyopia or amaurosis after sudden arrest of menstruation is the occurrence at that period of intra-ocular or of cerebral haemo- rrhage which has been preceded in several cases by severe pain in the head, with unconsciousness. The morbid changes which give rise to the lesion of vision during the above changes in the body, in many respects resemble those observed during albuminuria, and may be divided into three groups—those whose chief symptom is haemorrhage with oedema of the parts adjoining the seat of haemorrhage ; those which appear with infiltra- tion, inflammation, and the subsequent changes of texture in the eye (generally at and near the optic disc) or in some other part of the body ; and those in which no lesion is discoverable within the eyes. (f) Through general antemia (ischasmia). 1. From general causes, diabetes, diarrhoea spermatorrhoea, loss of blood, e.g. by vomiting. Vision in these cases is lost, in some gradually, in others suddenly. Much good may be done, if the impairment is not considerable, by improving the general health ; while if the ophthalmoscopic signs of atrophy of the optic nerve and retina have appeared (and the sooner the worse) little hope remains, though the general health may have been restored. Vomiting of blood in several patients from forty to fifty years of age (of whom a few suffered from ulceration with sloughing of the mucous membrane of the stomach) has been accompanied or followed by sudden loss of both eyes, or of one, the other eye becoming impaired from one to six months later. Vision in such cases, if lost suddenly, often remains lost, though the general quantity of blood may have been restored. The anajinia and atrophy of the retina and of the optic disc appear at a later period. There may have been amaurosis for some time, while with the ophthalmoscope we find slight MiK-emia, or no changes at all. The quantity of biood lost, or anremia of the brain, does not e.\- plaiii the loss of vision, since other cerebral func- tions return as the quantity of blood increases.