SKIN, DISEASES OF. trichonosis, or tinea tonsurans jtriclionosismaxillaris, or mentagni; trichonosis decalvans, or alopecia are- ata; and trichonosis, or phj-tosis versicolor; to which may be added, as possibly belonging to the same group, trichonosis plica, or plica polonica. These phytodermata constitute a natural group having certain sj'mptonis in common, being curable l)y a similar treatment, and, according to the sup- porters of the vegetable theory of the disease, obeying the same exciting cause. Their general symptoms are—pruritus, a furfuraceous condition of the epidermis, a certain circularity of figure, and disorganisation of the hair, which commonly results in baldness, either from breaking of the hair or expulsion by its roots. The class of plants associated with these diseases are the mycodermata, a group of microscopic fungi, belonging to the class of Arthrosporffi, and to the tribes Torulacese and Oidice ; they are the trichophyton tonsurans, the parasite of trichonosis tonsurans and maxillaris ; the microsporon furfur, or epidermophyton (Bazin), the parasite of trichonosis or phytosis versicolor ; the microsporon Audouini, a doubtful form, assigned by Bazin to trichonosis decalvans ; and the oidium or achorion Schoenleinii, the parasite of trichonosis favosa. The dermatophyta are very simple in structure consisting of nucleated granules or sporules ; of dilated tubes containing sporules termed sporidia ; and of minute filaments more or less transparent or opaque, divided by septa and branched, the mycelium. The spores and the sporidia are the reproductive part of the mycoderma, the filaments its fully developed por- tion. TheTorulacese, consisting of the trichophyton and the microsporon, are the simplest in structure, consisting only of spores or sporules and myce- lium ; the Oidiaj being more complex and com- prising sporidia as well as spores, and a more phytiform mycelium. Trichonosis favosa or favus is a specific inflam- mation of the scalp, manifesting itself at the apertures of the hair tubes, and resulting in the production of a peculiar yellow substance. This yellow substance is formed beneath, or rather in the deepest stratum of the epidermis, the rete mucosum, and at first, is a mere ring surrounding the mouth of the follicle : by degrees it enlarges in circumference, and constitutes a circular shallow cup pierced in its centre by the hair, which it gradually uproots; a number of these cups grouped together suggest the idea of a honeycomb, hence the term " favus.'" When the crusts of favus are examined with the microscope they are found to be composed almost entirely of the spores, sporidia and mycelium of the oidiimi or achorion Schoen- leinii. The varieties of favus are two in number, dispersus and confertus; in the former the cups are separate (favus isolatus, urceolaris); in the latter they are clustered and coherent (favus urceolaris coherens, Bazin). Bazin describes in addition to these, favus scutiformis vel nummularis, dis- tinguished by the absence of cups and a stratiform distribution of the favous matter on circular patches of diseased skin, and favus squarrosus, a form dis- tinguished by the accumulation of the favous niatter in small masses, which congregate around the shafts of the hairs. Neither of tlicse forms is well defined or sufficiently distinct for separate consideration. Favus may occur on the body and limbs as well as on the head, and it then puts on the dispersed or isolated character. Tnchotiosis tonsurans or comraon ringwom ig characterised by the loss of hair in circular patches, the ground of the patch being dry, furfuraceous, and papillated, and the hair either'broken off close to the head as though eaten off by the moth grub, hence iitiea iondens, or partly broken off and partly shrivelled and discoloured and matted into thin fasciculi, which lie in contact with the patch. In other parts of the head the hair has lost both its colour and texture, and has been aptly com- pared to tow. The change in the hair now described belongs to the second period of the • disease, when the fungus has made its appearance on the surface, in the form of white films, which enclose the broken ends of the hairs as in a sheath, and white and pearly wreaths which crop up in the midst of the furfuraceous squarase that cover the morbid surface. The period which precedes the appearance of the fungus is the period of germination, and is commonly accompanied with erythema in circular patches, sometimes with the superaddition of minute vesicles or vesiculo- pustules. The third period is indicated by the total destruction of the hair, and the appearance of a secondary eruption of the impetiginous type. The fungus of trichonosis tonsurans, is the micro- sporon tonsurans, and it is found in the substance of the hairs, in the morbid sheaths which surround the hairs, and amongst the exuviae of epidermis which cover the diseased plot. Trichonosis tonsurans may attack any part of the body as well as the scalp ; but from the minor degree of development of the hairs, it rarely over- steps the beginning of the second period. On the body and limbs, and especially on the neck, it is apt to take on the annulate or circinate form; and to appear either in the shape of an erythema, with a raised or papulated border (erythema circi- natum, lichen circinatus), or of a ring, surmounted by a single or double row of papulae or vesiculae (.lichen aunulatus, herpes circinatus). When it assumes the annulate form, the area of the ring is yellowish in tint and dusted over with farina- ceous furfuras; sometimes the area is dotted over with papulte; or the annulus may spread excen- trically; or throw out from its circumference a second or even a third ring (lichen aunulatus serpiginosus). Trichonosis maxillaris, mentagra vel sycosis, is a form of trichonosis tonsurans which attacks the region of the beard and whiskers. The first and second period of this eruption are comparatively nsignificant; the most important and pathogno- monic being the third. It differs from trichonosis tonsurans chieflj' in the fact of affecting the follicles more than the hairs, and being accom- panied by more serious secondary eruptions and pathological changes, for example simple pustules and papular pustules pierced by the hairs ; tuber- cles superficial and deep; furunculi; and ulcerations covered with unhealthy granulations (fici). These phenomena produce swelling and thickening of the skin and deeper tissues in the region of the beara and whiskers ; the disease is very obstinate; and terminates by expulsion of the hairs, and closure of the morbid follicles, followed by a permanent cicatrix and permanent baldness. The mycoderm found in the hair and in the follicles of mentagra is the same as in trichonosis tonsurans, the trichophyton tonsurans. Trichonosis decalvans (tinea decalvans, porrigo