INFLAMMATION. Vesication are established over the carotid arteries; in ophthalmia, the eye is surrounded with a horseshoe on its outer half circumference ; gonorr- hoea is cured in two or three days by blistering the penis ; in deep-seated pelvic inflammations, broad strips are laid over the femoral arteries ; the chief details of the method being to blister around and not over the focus of disease, and to carry the counter-irritant over the nearest artery which does nul supply the seat of the disease. Mr. Furneaux Jordan deserves great credit for his enunciation of intelligent principles in the use of counter-irritants, so far as blood-vessels and their areas of supply are concerned. That his doctrine and precepts are carried to extravagant lengths is obvious ; particularly in the idea that the applica- tion of nitric acid to a sloughing sore acts by counter- irritation and not by destruction of a diseased sur- face ; and in the idea that an incision in whitlow to the verjf focus of the disease is a mode of counter-irri- tation—a notion contrary to his own doctrine that counter-irritants ouglit to be applied near but not io the diseased part. We may safely leave these topics to time and experience. But in a history of surgical doctrine, his theories require notice as il- lustrations of the statement we set out with {Sect. 8,p. 52), that medical theories are stamped with the common infirmities of the human mind, and that though they vary in their details from age to age, their essence is the same. Mr. Furneaux Jordan's theories show him to belong to the sect of the Aleihodists, whose character was sketclied by the illustrious Celsus when he described the Methodism of Themison. " Satis est," says Themison, "quredam morborum communia intueri." So Mr. Jordan denounces minute distinctions and differences of treatment based on them. Some one or more things must be essential ; these alone re- quire attention ; inflammation is one, and our remedy ought to be one. "Selnn leur systerae," says Renouard {HUloire de la Mcdecine, Paris, 184G, vol. i. p. 365), " une affection du genre constrictif", telle qu'une tumeur inflammatoire, re'- clamait constamment le meme genre de secours, sur quelque partie qu'elle fut situe'e, quels que fussent I'age et les forces du nialade, lasaison, le climat." . . . Their desire,'' continues Renouard " to simplify the practice of medicine was snch that they submitted all their siclc to one regimen. . . . They cut down the study of medicine, so that they said all treatment could be learned in six months." Had they confined themselves to the classification of details,they would havedone well, but they thought unwisely that a itnowledge of the general" would enable them to dispense with a knowledge of the " individnal." Wiiereas the more general our ideas, the further are they of necessity from real objective truth. If, as Magendie showed, in- flammation under one name, and with a certain family likeness, contains members of the most opposite origin, nature, and requirements, it is clear that the notion of one remedy is a mere dream. In chronic bone disease most surgeons get so good results by rest, nutrition, and anodynes, that counter-irritants are needless. We have given this eminent surgeon due credit for showing empfiatically that coiniter-irritants must not be applied at random, but on definite prin- ciples, which, according to his view, depend on the distribution of tilood-vessels and the transference of vascular action. But there is a yet deeper [75] doctrine propounded by the neuro-pathological school, which insists on their application with reference to the trophic nervous system. On this point. Professor Laycock is the leading authority. '• The laws," he says, " of reflex action adapted to a trophic anatomy and to neurotic changes in tis- sues and organs, must be our guide in the use of counter-irritants and rubefacients.' {Lecture, Medical Times and Gazette, 1871, vol. i. p. 596.) It must be remarked that Professor Laycock demonstrates that one part of the bodily mechanism, the lymphatics, whose office in inflammation is apt to be ignored, are as much under the control of the nervous system as the blood-vessels. They ma}^ he says, be stimulated to their work, or plied by nervous influence transmitted from the central organ, and like other nervous influence, capable of being modified by afferent nerves, and therefore by local irritants. He gives a remarkable instance in which a woman with dropsy of both legs, had an attack of left hemiplegia, produced by embolism of the right middle cerebral artery. With tlie hemi- plegia the effusion into the right leg and thigh dis- appeared ; that on the left side remained. Why was this ? Formerly it would have been said that there was metastasis of the serum to the brain ; but a joos<-)Horfc))j disproved that hypothesis in this case. Professor Laycock believes metastasis to be, not a transference of a materies inorbi,h\it, of the place of nervous action. This point is most important in the philosophy of counter irritation, which may in one sense be defined as the artificial production of metastasis. " Here," says Professor Laycock, " was a new fact in vaso-motor pathology of wide practical significance ; for precisely similar results are seen in cases of " metastatic " rheumatism, " retroce- dent " or " suppressed " gout, " repelled " erup- tions, and dried-up ulcers, from, as I think, similar causes—namely, changed conditions of the nerve- centres. In none of these instances of alleged trans- ference of a materies morbi is there any proof of the fact of such transference, any more than in this case of "metastatic " dropsy, . . . On the other hand, the theory that metastasis is neurotic in origin is sufficient, and is practically available in all cases of the class. All we have to bear in mind is, that there are two conditions of the nerve- centres diverse \n results and difi'erent in seat . . . . —the one condition favouring the occurrence of certain changes, the other inhibiting it. This is the state of things when pain and in- flammation cease in one joint and begin in another in gout and rheumatism. There are cases of hemi- plegic jaundice, and of eruptive fevers, as measles, in which there is a phenomenon of the same class —on the one side there is a predisposing neurosis ; on the other, an inhibiting condition, just .as in cases of hemiplegic dropsy. To tliis class also belong those cases in which there is no eruption, or in which itappears and disappears like an urticaria evanida. A neurotic condition seems to be the reason why tubercles are absent in anesthetic leprosy. We thus explain, also, why those cases of syphilis in which there have been no cutaneous affections are most predisposed to syphilitic diseases of the nervous system. It is onlv when grave symptoms coincide with a so-called repelled erupticni tliat the neurosis upon which the cessation of tha inlhinimation depends is of serious omen. To this