&7b' UTERUS, INVERSION OR For twenty years I liave taiiglit in my lectures that the unyielding cervix may be divided by in- cisions carried into its substance from above down- wards at different points of its circumference. Pressure then applied will cause it to yield more easily. Huguier, Professor Simpson, and Dr. Marion Sims have suggested the same plan. I am not aware that it had ever been carried into execution before 1860, when I treated a case in this manner with complete success. The in- version was complete; it had lasted six months; tlie patient was so prostrate from continuous dis- charges that the prospect of her holding out many weeks was small. I first tried to re-invert by keeping up continuous elastic pressure during five days, with occasional attempts by taxis, as recom- mended by Tyler Smith. This failing, I drew down tiie tumor to the vulva by passing a sling noose of tape round it, thus putting the neck on the stretch ; I then made three incisions in the neck about a third of an inch deep, one on each side, and one behind in a longitudinal direction— that is, across the fibres of the cervical sphincter. Then, compressing the uterus with my left hand, and supporting the os uteri by the fingers of the right hand through the abdominal wall, I found the cervix yield and the body went through into its place. The cervix yielded by laceration ex- tending from the incisions ; and I very much feared at the time that serious, if not fatal, mischief liad been done. No material inconvenience, how- ever, followed ; and examination three weeks afterwards showed the cervix and uterus to be in their proper places. The woman has since become pregnant. Notwithstanding this successful issue, I believe that the method should only be resorted to after a full trial of Tyler Smitli's plan, and then with great caution. I should recommend that only two incisions be made, one on each side of the os, and these of moderate depth. The re-inversion should be trusted to sustained elastic pressure. , It has happened in several cases that only par- tial reduction could be effected ; that is, the body would return through the cervix in a doubled form, the fundus still being depressed, and pre- senting just above the cervix. In such cases, continuous steady support by a cup-shaped pessary, as the end of a stethoscope, may in time complete the reduction. When well adapted and steadily pursued attempts to reduce have failed, and the patient's life is threatened, then only shall we be justified in resorting to the " anceps remcdiuin " of ampu tating the oft'ending organ. The annals of medi- cine, it is true, contain many examples of successful amputation; but such a result can in no case be predicated with confidence. The conditions of safety depending upon Nature may be absent; and the surgical means at present known are imperfect. When the uterus is cut across at the neck, of course a hole is made opening from the fundus of the vagina into tlie peritonea' cavity. The danger of fatal peritonitis is great, The shock of the operation also is serious. l-Ia;mor- rluige is likely to ensue; and some blood wil escape into the abdomen. There are various methods of peiforraing the operation. The uterus has been seized by a vulselluni, drawn down, and the cervix cut through witii a knife. In one case, Velpeau, before excising, passed two strgng threads through the neck of the tumor for the purpose of restraining any ha;morrhage that might occur, but they were not tied. The patient died on the second day of peritonitis. Then it was thouglit that the ligature applied to strangle, and to slough through, as in tlie case of a polypus, would be less dangerous. Treated in this way, the result has been varied. In several instances, where a whip- cord ligature has been applied by Levret'sorGooch's double canula, agony so intense has been produced as to render it necessary to remove the ligature and the patient has died notwithstanding. The cause of the excruciating pain is, I believe, thn compression of the included Fallopian tubes. I have observed the same pain in cases where the tube has been tied in the pedicle of an ovarian tumor. And it has been observed in several cases that the surface and substance of the uterus proper was nearly insensible; pain being developed only on tightening the ligature. In some cases, the patient has died with the ligature attached. There is a preparation illustrating this in the Museum of Bartholomew's Hospital ; death ensuing from peritonitis eight days after tying. On the other hand, it seems not unreasonable to hope that a ligature gradually tightened may set up adhesive inflammation in the neighbouring peritoneum, and thus shut off the abdomen from communication with the vagina when the uterus falls away. Certain it is that this hope is not always realised. Thus Dr. McCIintock {Opus ciiai.) relates a case in which a ligature was applied during eighteen days, occasionally relaxing it on account of the severity of the pain, before the uterus was separated. No peritoneal adhesion had taken place. The woman, however, made a good recovery. In eighteen cases where the time that elapsed before the uterus fell is stated, the ligature took from nine to twenty-eight days to sever the parts. The average time was seventeen days. It has been remarked that the ligature has arrested the hsemorrhage. Dr. Ramsbotham has a case in which the ligature had to be removed at the end of twenty-four hours, owing to symptoms of violent peritonitis; but the profuse sanguineous and mu- cous discharges ceased. Mr. J. G. Forbes {Op. cit.) suggests that the simple application of a ligature around the neck of the tumor to destroy its vitality appears to possess more advantages than the other modes of operatnig. Dr. McCIintock relates two cases in which strangulation was first effected by a ligature for some days, and then the uterus was removed below the ligature by the chain-e'craseur. The patient recovered. This combined method seems likely to unite most conditions of success. Dr. Marion Sims relates {Op. cit.) a case ni which, after vain attempts at reduction, and being compelled by the consequent pain and prostration to abandon the ligature, he resorted to the chaiii- e'craseur. When the parts were all divided, except the right broad ligament, "all at once the most fearful lu-emorrhage he ever encountered tooK; place." It was happily stopped by passmg the finger into the abdominal opening and compressing the source of the hajmorrhaste. The blood whicli had escaped into the peritoneal cavity w.isspoiigea out bv probang ; and the divided edges ol tne cervix "were united by five or six silver sutuie-. Tile patient recovered. . Dr. Nueggeiath recommends, i" at'f:"P""S