340 NECROSIS, stance from the surface of a bone (see Exfolia- tion), to destruction of the whole thickness of its shaft. In external or superficial necrosis, only the outer layers are involved, and it does not usually extend deeply into the substance of the bone ; it is often the result of periostitis or of an injury, and varies very considerably in its extent. If the periosteum be destroyed, the dead piece of bone, when detached from the living, comes away of itself, or is readily removed, and the reparative process is very imper- fect, or altogether absent. This form of the disease is frequently met with in the skull, in the bones of •which there is seldom much attempt at reproduction. When the periosteum is left intact, it pours out plastic lymph, which becomes ossified and forms a bony case for the sequestrum : this is then said to be invaffmated, and requires the aid of surgery for its removal. In these cases the loss of substance is entirely restored. In internal or central necrosis, destruction of the inner lamellae of the bone takes place, whilst the outer part or cortex is not involved in the disease. Here new osseous tissue is formed by the periosteum upon the surface of the bone, whilst the external layers become indurated from deposition of ossific matter between them ; the medullary structure may also become consolidated by bony deposit, and the sequestrum will then be contained in a cavity, formed by the thickened outer walls and the ossified medullary tissue. If the medullary texture perish, together with the inner layers of the bone, the whole will be detached as a sequestrum, in the form of a cylinder, leaving the solidified external lamellae covered on their inner aspect by granu- lations. This latter form of the disease is most commonly seen in the stumps of long bones after amputation. When the whole thickness of a bone dies, the medullary tissue generally perishes with it ; the periosteum inflames, separates from the dead bone, and pours out plastic lymph, which ossifies and forms a bony sheath around the necrosed shaft, and, when this is removed, more or less perfectly replaces it. This cylinder of new bone, which is termed the involucrum, is white, rough, spongy, and porous ; it is perforated with openings of varying •size and shape, they are called cloacce, and lead into the interior of the bone.] The cavity of the new bone includes, and almost entirely conceals, the dead fragments. Sometimes, however, the new bone forms a sort of bridge oyer the sequestrum, in such a manner that the cavity is open above and below, in both which situations the sequestrum can be felt. (Hunter, in Med. Ols. and Inquiries, vol. ii. p. 418.) Sometimes, it is only a narrow cross piece, which forms the bridge retaining the sequestrum. ( Weid- »na»», vid. tab. 5. fig. 1. a.) The new bone may also have an opening in it, out of which the dead portion protrudes. (Ibid. P-35.) . . . , Sometimes the cavity of the new bone is single : while, in other instances, there are several succes- sive cavities in the direction of the length 'of the bone, with transverse interspaces between them; or else the cavities are situated laterally with re- spect to each other, and divided by partitions. {Weidmann, tab. 7. fig. 2.) [In the Musde Dupuytren may be seen a tibia with nine distinct cavities, containing as many sequestra.] These cavities are proportioned in size and shape to the fragments of dead bone, whicli lodge in them. It occasionally happens, that they open into some neighbouring joint, and bring on suppuration there ; a very unfavourable complication. {Ibid. p. 34. and tab. G. fig. 3. Also, Doyer, Mai. Chir. torn. iii. p. 435.) Let me take notice of the holes, by which the cavities, including the dead pieces of bone, open externally, which Troja denominated the foranwta grandia, and which the preceding excellent writer preferred calling the cloaca;, because the}' serve to convey outward the matter and any separated pieces of bone. In the beginning they are not observable, a certain space of time appearing to be requisite for their formation. They are noticed in long cylindrical bones, whether original, or of new production, whose cavities contain dead fragments. These openings vary in number ; when the se- questrum is small, only one is found ; but, when the piece of dead bone is extensive, there may be two, three, or four. Weidmann never saw more than five. But Troja met with eight. (P. 50.) Weidmann possessed a small portion of the diploe of the OS innominatum, which was affected with necrosis, and contained in a bony cavity, that had no external opening whatever. When there are several distinct cavities in the same bone, containing dead fragments, e-ich cavity has at least one external opening. These cloacce, or apertures, are commonly situated at the lower and lateral parts of the cavities ; they pass obliquely outwards, and communicate with fistulous sinuses, which open on the surface of the skin. {David, p. 186.) Some of the cloaca;, however, form at the middle, or (what is exceed- ingly rare) at the upper part of the cavities, and proceeding outward, without any oblique track, go to the front, back, or lateral parts of the limb. They are of a round or oval shape, or nearly so. Their usual size is such, that it will just admit a quill or a probe. They terminate internally by con- verging edges in the manner of a funnel ; while, on the contrary, the margins of their outer ex- tremity expand somewhat. The canal, between these two orifices, is sometimes long, sometimes short, and in certain cases, of scarcely any extent. Difl^erent opinions have been broached, respecting the causes which produce the apertures in the new bone, termed by Weidmann the cloaca. M. David says that the pus, collecting in an early stage of the disease between the bone and the periosteum, distends and corrodes this membrane, and that the openings which form in it become afterwards a cause of fistulaj in the new bone. (P. 186.) But it is observed by Weidmann, that this explanation is inadmissible, since the existence of the collec- tion of pus mentioned by M. David, is not proved by observation : in fact, it was never met with by Troja, Bliimenbach, Desault, Koehler, and many others in repeated experiments on the subject. (Troja, p. 56 and 66-, Weidmann, p. 36.) Koehler thought he had seen the new bone itself destroyed by the pus, and cloaca thus produced. (P. 68-72.) AVeidmann, however, deems this opinion quite as improbable as the preceding, for the fact of the surface of these bony apertures being always smooth, ahvays formed .n one man- ner, and constantly lined by the periosteum, de- cidedly proves, that they cannot action of pus on the bone. arise from the