700 TESTICLE, DIS: JASES OF THE. in them simultaneously, and"it is not rare to find ex- acerbations taking place in them alternately ; when both oi'gans are involved, loss of sexual power gradually occurs, until at last it may altogether fail. The disease consists in an exudation of organis- able lymph into the substance of the testis, and this is generally diffused equally throughout the organ so as to produce a uniform enlargement ; the effusion may, however, be limited to certain por- tions of the gland, causing irregular nodules upon its surface. The pressure to which the tubuli seminiferi are subjected by this deposit arrests their function, and occasions the impotency referred to; whilst pain is also produced hy it, as well as by the tension upon the unyielding tunica albuginea. As absorption of this material takes place, the pain and swelling subside, the normal sensation returns in the testicle, together with capacity for sexual intercourse. Sometimes the exudation will degenerate and suppuration take place, but this seldom occurs in other than delicate unhealthy patients, or when the disease has resulted from violence, and a por- tion of the testicle has been irretrievably injured. A more grave termination is when this plastic matter becomes organised. The gland then re- mains enlarged for a length of time, is altogether insensitive, and, if both are affected, there is com- plete loss of power. To this condition the term of Sarcoeele was formerly applied, and if there be an accumulation of fluid in the tunica vaginalis, it has been named a Hydrosarcocele. After remaining large and useless for a varying period, the testicle begins to diminish in size, and may continue to do so until ultimately it becomes completely atrophied. A section through a testicle with this disease shov/s an absence, more or less complete, of the tubular structure, and its replacement by a firm, grey-coloured, libro-plastic, material, throughout ■which are scattered patches of a yellowish tinge. Although the symptoms of chronic orfhitis are very similar in all cases, yet there are important distinctive features in certain varieties of the disease which require special notice. When it results from, or is complicated with, gout, the attack is subacute, with somewhat rapid swelling and considerable pain. There is also generally effusion into the tunica vaginalis. The other testis is often extremely sensitive, though not enlarged, with occasional shooting pain through it and along the cord, most marked at night. There may be other indications of a gouty ten- dency, and the stomach frequently sympathises with the attack. If the inflammation of the testicle be dependent on, or associated with, rheumatism, a dull, though severe, aching pain is the first symptom, and the swelling will be slower and to a less extent than when arising from other causes; as in rheumatic affections generally, the fibrous covering is the part first involved, and the glandular enlargement is secondary to an extension of the inflammation along the septa. Pain is the chief characteristic of this variety, which is much aggravated at night, as also by exercise, or pressure ; both testes may be attacked, but less frequently than in otlicr forms of orchitis, and the collection of fluid in the tunica vaginalis is seldom largo. The urine is Ecuerally \^,^^^^ ^..^jj lithatcs, and of a high colour, whilst other evidences of rheumatism are frequently present. In these cases, local exposure to wet and cold is the usual cause of the attack. But by far the most frequent form of this disease is that which is due to s7/]jhilis. Si/philitic orehitis is essentially slow in its progress, and free from active inflammation, so that the increased size of the gland is often the first symptom to attract attention ; there may be slight pain at the very- commencement, but this is soon lost, so that ma- nipulation neither produces pain nor the ordinary testicular sensation ; this latter will, however, return as the disease is subsiding. The testicle becomes very solid and extremely hard ; it is sometimes smooth and even, but general!}' nodu- lated on the surface from masses of plastic matter irregularly deposited within its substance; it ia commonly associated with hydrocele, which may reach a considerable size. The epididymis and spermatic cord are but little involved, except in cases of long duration, when they will become hard and thickened. Both testes are often involved, although seldom simultaneously or in an equal degree, and they do not usually attain so large a size as in the non- specific varieties of the disease. This affection is met with during the more ad- vanced, or so-called tertiary, stage of constitu- tional syphilis ; it may be accompanied by other evidences of the disease, but this is by no means of constant occurrence, although a history of it can generally be obtained. Suppuration is a very infrequent result of sj'philitic orchitis, and when it does occur, it is nearl}' always associated with tuberculous deposit. With judicious treatment, recover}' may be looked for in the large majority of cases, but sometimes the secreting structure will be almost completely de- stroyed,and progressive atrophy will then take place. On examining a testicle affected with syphilitic disease, the seminal tubes will be found embedded in a mass of yellowish-white deposit, which in- filtrates the gland to a varying extent ; and in a more chronic case, this material will occupy the interior of the organ to the exclusion of the tubuhir structure, which will have almost entirely dis- appeared. Few affections respond more readilj' and satis- factorily to treatment than chronic orchitis in its earlier stages. Mildly depletive remedies at first, and afterwards alterative medicines, with tonics, and local applications, will be found most conducive to recovery. To this end, when there is much pain, and the swelling is rapid, leeciies will be most useful ; the patient should, if pos- sible, be kept at rest, and evaporating lotions ap- plied ; a well-fitting suspensory bandage should also be adapted to the part, so as to support it thoroughly. As soon as the leech-bites will allow, mercurial ointment may be employed locally. The internal administration of mercury is most service- able in this disease, when given in moderate but long-continued doses, and under its use the en- largement will rapidly disappear, unless the exu- dation has become organised before this method of treatment be commenced. When, owing to a debilitated or scrofulous condition of the patient, mercury is not admissible, iodide of potassium may be substituted, and this will be found a highly useful drug in most cases, even where mercury is employed. Quinine, bark,