RANULA. .50,0 should be an elucidation of the questions by dis- section, whether this disease is situated in tlie salivary ducts beneath the tongue? or whetlier it consists merely in a serous cyst ? or else in one ot a mucous, or sero-mucous texture, formed of the dilated follicles? The same distinguished surgeon then expresses his own suspicion, that tumors of ilillerent natures, belonging in turn to one of these three kinds, have been, on account of their situ- ation, indiscriminately confounded together under the name of ranula;. {Clin. Ckir. t. iii. p. 297.) iMalgaigne believes, that ranidaj are most fre- quently only serous or sero-mucnus cysts, deve- hiped under the mucous membrane of the mouth. .!/((«. lie Mid. OpLr. p. 463. ed. 2.) Dupuytren notices the observation of certain writers, that children are sometimes born with ranulaj ; but suspects, that such tumors are only serous exists situated under the tongue, and wliich occasionally become so large as to reach down to the sternum. M. Breschet dissected five of these pretended ranulaj, and found them to be of the latter de- scription. {R'peiioire d'Anatomie.) Leaving out of consideration mucous cysts with opique pultaceons contents and large bursal and other cysts, which occasionally are found to extend from the mouth into the neck, not perhaps correctly described as ranulae, still there remain the more common transparent tumors under the tongue, the pathological anatomy of which is not yet sufficiently determined. They are evidently not all formed in the principal duct of the sub- maxillary or sublingual glands, thougii many of them are. But I am inclined to believe that all cases of true ranulae are iu obstructed salivary ducts either in the principal ducts or in some of their ramifications. The closure of the orifice of the duct of the sub- maxillary gland may be the result of inflammation of the sublingual mucous membrane, or of the tongue itself. Aphthas and ulceration mvy obli- terate the duct. Sometimes, when the frajnum of ihe tongue is divided, some of the excretory ducts opening on each side of it are cut, and may be- come obliterated. (See Dupuylren, Ciiri. Cldr. U iii. p. 301.) If the tumor acquires a certain size, it pushes 'the tongue backwards, displaces or injures the teeth, alfects the voice, obstructs speech, mastica- tion, and deglu;ition, and in infants interferes with the action of sucking. Lastly, the tumor may project out of the mouth, or beneath the jaw, [iVIr. South relates that the elder Ciine used to mention in his lectures that he was one morning alarmed by the noise of a person breathing with g'eat diffictdty in the next room to his consulting room, and, on hastening in, he found a man stretched on a chair and almost suffocated. On being inquired of as to what was the matter, he pointed to his mouth, upon looking into which Cline observed a large ranula, which he instantly punctured with a lancet, and relieved the patient Irom the threatening suffocation.] Persons who move their tongues a groat deal, and those who sing, have been set down as very liable to the present complaint ; but this opinion, I believe, rests on no good foundation. The fluid in the tumor is precisely like white of egg; but it is thicker, after having remained a long while in the swelling ; and it is occasionally of a calcareou.s, and even stony nature, llantila does not proceed from an inspissation of the saliva, as Do la Faye supposed, but from an obstruction of the duct or orifices of this tube. The collection may produce a tumor of large size j but the swell- ing generally bursts when it has atttiined the di- mensions of a walnut. Mr. B. Bell met with a case, where an ulcerated opening had formed, and been treated in vain with various detergent and corrosive .applicati'ms, and even a mercurial course. At length, the trtie cause of the disease liaving been ascertained, a cure was accomplished in a few days, by removing a piece of calcareous matter, which, by obstructing the duct, had first caused the swelling, and then ulceration. With the intention of easing a ranula an op3ning is frequently made into it with a lancet, but the incision closes up again, and the swelling reappears. J. L. Petit relates a case, in which the puncture was repeated ten times, and yet the cure was not accomplished. The ancients made the same remark ; and hence. Pare' preferred the actual cautery to the lancet. Dionis had also seen ranulcB recur, after they had been simply opened with a lancet; and he recommends, for the prevention of this inconvenience, the applica- tion of a mixture of honey of roses and sulphuric acid to the inside of the cyst, so as to destroy it. By the introduction of a piece of lint into the cavity, or by freely opening it, and removing the edges of the incision, the chances of success are increased ; but even these methods may fail, as I know from experience. M. Louis having observed that the radical cure depended on a fistulous aperture, through which the saliva continued to flow, recommended such an opening for the saliva to be made, as would not close. Le Clerc recorded a case in which the root of the swelling extended under the tongue ; the tumor filled the whole mouth ; the prominence which it formed outw.ardly was as large as a duck's egg ; and the disease, in its progress, had made the teeth of both jaws project outward. At some parts of its surface, a fluctuation was perceptible ; other places were exceedingly hard. The patient, who could scarcely breathe, demanded assistance ; and a puncture was made in the softest part of the swelling below the chin. A thick yellowish fluid issued out of the ranula. The opening was en- larged with a knife, and about a pint of gritty inodorous matter was extracted. There was no haiinorrhage from the cut ; and no sooner had the contents of the swelling been let out, than the patient began to articulate, which he had not been able to do for a long while. The sides of the tumor being so prodigiously distended, Le Clerc thought proper to destroy the inside of the cavity with a tent, dipped in a mercurial solution. The cure was completed in a month, and the tongue gradually regained its original size, a part of which it had lost. But, as M. Louis observes, fortunate as the termination of this case was, it must not be indis- criminately set down, that destroying the cyst or even opening the tumor, is always requisite. A more simple method will sometimes succeed. In a particular case, whicli this gentleman lias related, a siintosity, whicli divided the swelling into a right and left portion, made iiim suspect that it consisted of two sacs, in contact with each