196 Lip^ CAI CER OF. far above the mischief, which has taken place, as the collateral circulation will permit." He adds, however, tliat " many secondary hsemorrhagcs may be restrained, and ultimately suppressed by moderate pressure; and the ligature should only be had recourse to, when the application of pres- sure appears to be, or has been proved to be, insufBcient for the purpose." (See G. J. Guthrie on tlie. Diseases, Sj;c. of Arteries, pp. 163—166.) The great diiBculty in such circumstances arises from the general inability of the parts to bear pressure, without an extension of gangrene being the result. Great caution and skill must be used, therefore, in the adjustment of it; for much cir- cular constriction of the part will surely have the most fatal consequences. According to Mr. Guthrie, " the reflux blood from the lower end of a great artery, after its division, will be of the colour of venous blood: it will flow also like blood from a vein. After the lapse of several days, it will assume more and more the character of arterial blood, but will not obtain the same degree of impulse, which is so remarkable when it proceeds from the upper extremity of the artery." (Op. cit. p. 137.) Many years ago. Sir Astley Cooper operated for a popliteal aneurism, and, after applying two ligatures to the femoral artery, divided the vessel in the interspace: the lower ligature slipped, and a violent bleeding arose from the distal end of the artery: but so dark was the colour of the blood, that it was at first conjectured to come from the vein. These observations are intended by Mr. Guthrie to refer chiefly to the wounds of middle portions of the femoral and brachial arteries; and not to wounds of the radial and ulnar, where branches form direct communications between one vessel and the other; and the blood has not to pass through the capillaries to reach the distal part of the wounded vessel. These statements, if found to agree with gene- ral experience, will be practically useful, as afford- ing a clue to the end of the vessel, from which the bleeding arises, and to which the ligature should be applied. Various instruments for conveying a ligature under a very deep artery, have been invented by Desault, Ramsden, Weiss, M'Intyre, and others. (See Aneurism.) The most complete invention for the applica- tion of ligatures round certain tumours, which ad- mit of being thus extirpated, is that of Baron Graefe, termed the encircling ligature apparatus. A pamphlet, containing a correct description of it, has been translated from the German, by Fred, l'". Weiss, of the Strand. LINIMENTUM ACIDI SULPHURICI. —Ijo Olei olivaj B jss. Acid, sulph. 3 ss. M. Recommended by Sir Benjamin Brodie for the removal of some effects of inflammation of the synovial membrane. (See Joint.s.) LINIMENTUJVT AMMONI/15 FORTIUS. P= Liq. amnion. 3 j- Olei olivrc 3 iij. Misce. Properties stimulating. LINIMENTUM' HYDBARGYRI COM- POSITUM.—]^ Ung. hydrargyri fortioris, .idipis suilhe, sing. = j. Camph. 3 ij. Spirit vinos, roclif 3 ij. Liq. aninioTi. 3 j. The camphor being dis- solved in the spirit of wine, add the liq. amnion, and the ointment previously blended with the hog's-lard. {Pliarm. Sancti. Bartliol.) An ex- cellent formula for all surgical cases in which the object is to quicken action of the absorbents, and stimulate the surfaces of the parts. Instead of the liquor ammoniaj, it is better in some cases to add the tincture of iodine, or 3 ij. of the iodide of potassium. LINIMENTUM TEREBINTHINiE SUL- PHURICUM.—$L Olei olivEe 3 x. 01. tere- binth. 5 iv. Acidi sulph. 3 iij. Misce. Effica- cious in some chronic affections of the joints, and in the removal of the effects of old sprains and bruises. (Pharm. Chirurgica.) LIP, CANCER OF. The lips are subject to ifloers, which put on a very malignant aspect, although some of them are not in reality malig- nant; and many, situated just on the inside of these paits, will be found to depend on the bad state of the constitution, and the irritation and disturbance which the sores are continually suffering from the incessant motion of the parts, and their rubbing against a projecting or rough tooth. " The continual irritation arising from the in- troduction of food, the effort of speaking, and the constant flow of saliva (as Mr. Earle remarks), are sufficient to keep up the morbid disposition, and to prevent any reparative effort of nature from being carried into effect. After a time, the neighbouring glands will often become enlarged, which con- firms the surgeon in the opinion he had been in- duced to form ef the nature of the affection." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xii. p. 272.) The irritation of tobacco-pipes frequently gives rise to malignant, and even truly cancerous, diseases of tlie lip. The use of cigars may have the same effect. (See vol. cit. p. 278.) [Epithelioma is the form of cancer which usually aftects the lip. Under the microscope it presents the appearance of numerous nucleated cells resem- bling the ordinary tesselated epithelium. These cells are found on the surface as well as interstitially deposited, and form the principal bulk of the mor- bid growth. Epithelial cancer, after removal, does not return at so early a date as the other forms of cancer; Mr. Paget calcul.ates the average period of return to bo four years. He|admits, however, that the disease, when located in the lip, does not re- appear till after a longer interval, and mentions— what must have occurred in the practice of everj' surgeon of experience—llmt in many cases the disease has been arrested for se\eral 3'ears, and that in some few cases no return of the disease liai occurred. See Cancer.] When cancer takes phice, it is usually in the lower and verj' seldom in the upper lip. Sir h. Cooper has seen but one instance of it in the latter part. The disease sometimes puts on the appearance of an ulcerated wart-like excrescence, occasionally acquiring a considerable size. Sometimes it is seen in the form of a very destructive ulcer, which consumes the surrounding substance of the lip; and, in other examples, the disease resembles a hard lump, which at length ulcerates. The dis- ease, in its infancy, is often no more than a pimple, which gradually becomes malignant. As the dis- ease advances, the glands under the jaw enlarge. According to Mr. Travers's observations, cancer of the lower lip begins in the cellular tissue between the mucous nienibrane and the skin. The enlarge-