1030 WOUNDS Following out the idea of cmisiiig a scab to form, Bouisson of Montpellier, in 1858, applied tlie com- mon house-bellows to produce a current of air, and BO desiccate the wounded aurface. In one sense this plan of treatment might have been with greater propriety described when speaking of methods of excluding the air from the wounded .surface. In order that a crust sliould be formed, it is necessary that the current of air be applied frequently till all secretion is dried up and cemen- ted into a firm scab. This plan can only be use- ful in small superficial wounds, and in exceptional circumstances. It is termed "sub-crustian " cica- trisation. Carbonic acid gas relieves pain and hastens cica- trisation, restoring exuberant granulations to a healtliful tone, and promoting recovery. It has been to burns and ulcers that this application has been found most useful. Demarqua}', in his "Pneu- matologie," published in 1866, has fully entered into the history and practice of this application. In the same work the beneficial effects of oxygen (jas on open wounds is recorded, and will astonish those who so much dread the effects of this element of atmospheric air on such surfaces. It has been found most useful in the treatment of foul and gangrenous sores. Thus, then, we see how diverse and unsettled have been the metlioda of locally treating wounds, and thouijh many able surgeons in different coun- tries have in these ways tried to improve the prac- tice of our time, 3-et on the continent the favourite plan is still to cover up the surface with charpie and lard, and to confine the whole by bands of linen and cumbrous rollers, while in Great Britain surgeons are most content to employ the " water- dressing," of which Listen so emphatically said that it was " the most perfect of all external appli- cations." With this sketch of the ancient and modern plans of dressing wounds we may go on to con- sider more carefully various important details con- nected therewith. The posUion in which the wounded part is placed and retained is of the utmost consequence to successful treatment. The wounded textures should be relaxed as much as possible, and the part made comfortable. Complete rest is essential to a happy recover}^ and we should avoid causing pain, as to many (children especially) it is highly injurious, and to all it is in some degree hurtful. To avoid unnecessary pain, and to do all we can to assuage it when it is unavoidable, is not only the dictate of humanity but of good surgery. That some surgeons greatly excel others in that most excellent quality of "lightness of hand" is a matter of every-day observation, and that much of this is born with its possessor cannot be doubted; yet all can attaui to it by attention and care, and that it is well worth acquiring the wounded alone can perfectly judge. The local treatment demanded by wounds will of course vary with the mode of union aimed at. If immediate uniim or primary adhesion is ex- pected, then we employ the measures necessary to close the wound in the most effectual and secure luiinner ; while if granulations have to be dressed, or healing by secondary intention, or by scabbing Bought, different applications will he required. Ill any case the afrmjw/of a wound should be carei'illy and systematically gone about. Before removing the old appliances the new should be completely arranged, so that each piece may be readilj' got when wanted, and the proceeding com- pleted with celerity and order; but security should never be sacrificed to speed. All nece.-sary things should be near at hand, disposed in the order in which they are to be employed. The patient should be comfortably placed, and if assistant.'; are required they should be instructed in what duty ig required of them. The old dressings should be thoroughly softened by warm water or oil before removal so as to avoid all tearing or displacement of the wound. Great gentleness is desirable in all these proceedings. As Mr. Paget well 6;tys, '• wounds must be handled, if at all, like embryos ; for such indeed their healing structures are, and a rude touch spoils many a good day of Nature's work." A stream of water poured over tlie part or injected by a syringe, is the best method of cleansing the surface or any sinuses, and all " scrubbing" or rough rubbing of the part is scrupulously to be avoided. A piece of oiled cloth should be spread over the bed while all this is being accomplished, otherwise stains and disagree- able smells will cause unnecessary aniioj'ance afterwards. If the surface to be dressed is a large one, as for examplq a burn, we should never ex- pose it all at once to the air, but replace one portion of the dressings before removing another. The period for removing the dressings will vary with circumstances, and that chiefly with the amount of discharge, the necessity for surveillance, the heat of the weather, and the nature of the ap- plication. Frequent dressings irritate and stimu- late, and so augment the discharge, while we cannot usually command the same cleanliness with long intervals between the renewals. The morn- ing is, on the whole, the best time to re-apply dres- sings, as then the patient is fresh alter the night's rest, and has the whole da)' to recover an)' irrita- tion caused before the time for sleep comes. If two dressings are required in the twenty four hours they should take place at as long an interval as possible. Sometimes we may require to administer chloroform if the dressing is very painful, and an opiate given afterwards nuiy procure rest and relieve pain. In all cases in which it can be safely accom- plished, we endeavour to obtain the early union of wounds. By so doing we avoid inanj' of those sad complications to which such injuries are liable. Yet, in order to be secure and not lead to any harm, the union must not be in seeming only, that is, merely along the edges, but throughout the whole depth of the breach, otherwi>e decomposing mat- ters may be retained, and the worst evils produced. To accomplish this we remove all blood and foreign bodies from between the surfaces, and having secured all vessels, &c. adjust the tissues most accu- rately to one another, so that textures of a similar nature nuiy lie in contact. We are enabled to bring them into contact by placing the part in sucli a position as will allow of the easy approximation of the lips of the w.iuiid, and the least amount ot traction being applied to them afterwards. Inis is the only true rule for our guidance ai regards the posture of the part involved. But as it is im- possible for a p:itieiit. without other aid, fixedly to retain the part in one position and entirely :it res (as, forix tmplp,during sleep and involuntary move- ments), we require to employ cerUiiii appl