SUPPURATION, ce pulmonary inflammation and abscess, if they become entangled in the smaller branches in the lungs. But in other cases, septic fluids poison the whole mass of blood; or diseased germinal matter, whether in the shape of pus globules or not—more probably in far minuter forms—finds admission. Such diseased germinal matter may grow in and obstruct capillaries, producing local congestions ; or m.iy escape from them, producing exudations, rashes, boils, carbuncle, pustules, vesicles, and all the local phenomena that attend the exanthe- mata and other blood diseases. (See Beak, Micro- scope in Medicine, 3rd ed., p. 174.) Similar ad- mixtures produce the deposit within the veins of separated fibrine,and the exudation into the joints and other parts, common in pyaemia, of morbii) Huids quickly converted into pus. Yet it is not probable that pus is separated from the blood and deposited as such, but only its materials in the shape of fibnne and of germinal matter. To our account of the genesis of pus we may add a few words on its dissolution. When it is not discharged from an abscess, its watery parts may be absorbed, its solid constituents form a creamy or putty-hke mass ; the individual globules undergo fatty degeneration and break up, and at last all are taken up by the blood-vessels. (See Paffei Lec- '"on-T,*"''^''"' ^a//iofo^^, hy Tuner, 2n'd ed. p. iJo.) Much dead and inspissated pus is (like a dozen other things of similar appearance) called yellow tubercle by the makers of post-mortem ex- aminations.] 643 Qualities op Prs. True pus has certain properties, which, when u-^u ^'''""^ '° secretions, but which, conjointly, form the peculiar character of this fluid; viz. globules swimming in a fluid, which IS coagulable by a solution of the muriate of am- monia. This fluid, like serum, is coagulable by heat. " Pus also contains abundance of fibrin: if water be poured upon pus, until the solid part] which remains at the bottom of the vessel, be en- tirely deprived of its serum and globules, numerous portions of fibrin are found remaining, and although not exactly of the same size, yet they have a great uniformity of appearance. Thus pus is composed of-serum, fibrin, and globules; and (says Sir A. Cooper), if I were to hazard a theory upnn this subject, I should say that pus was composed of the constituent parts of the blood, slightly changed in their character by inflammation," (Lectures vol. i. p. 121.) ' The colour and the consistence of pus are the two qualities which first attract the notice of every, the moat superficial, observer. The colour arises from the largest portion of this fluid being composed of very small round bodies, much re- sembling the globules of cream. The fluid, in which the globules of pus swim, might at first be supposed to be the serum of the blood, for it co- agulates with heat, like the latter fluid. Pus is also probably mixed with a small quantity of co- agulating lymph ; as it partly coagulates, after i t IS secreted. However, the fluid part of pus is found to have properties which serum has not J here being a similarity between pus and milk experiments have been made to ascertain whether the fluid of pus could be coagulated with the gas- ric jnice of animals; but no coagulation could Ue effected in this manner. A solution of muriate of ammonia made the fluid part of pus coagulate • but not any other secretion, or natural fluid- and* hence it was concluded, that whenever globules were found swimming in a fluid, coagulable by muriate of ammonia, the matter was to be con- sidered as pus. It was announced by M. Dumas, in 1828, that, amongst the component parts of pus, there is one exactly similar to caseum, which must therefore not be regarded as a product peculiar to the mam- mary secretion. (See Andral, Prieis d'AnaU pa- thol. t. i. p. 351.) " Formed by a process similar to that of secre- tion, the chemical composition of pus must vary, not only with the nature of the tissue from which It is derived, but likewise under the influence of various morbid conditions, which are known to modify the products of secretion in general. It is on this principle, that we explain the difference which exists, particularly at the commencement and termination of suppuration, between the pus furnished by serous and mucous membranes; the quantity of albuminous matter being much greater in the former than in the latter case, and, as has been observed by Gendrin, the pus furnished by the granulations in caries contains a greater quantity of the phosphate and muriate of lime ; the puriform discharge of scrofulous ulcers a larger proportion of soda and the muriate of soda ; and that which is found in the tissues surrounding the joints m gout, an excess of the carbonates, phos- phates, and perhaps the urate, of lime." (See Carswell's Illustrations of tlm Elementary Forms of Disease, fasc. 8.) The proportion which the white or yellowish opaque globules bear to the other parts of pus depends on the health of the parts producing ^he discharge. When the globules are very abundant the matter is thicker and whiter, and is called healthy pvg; the meaning of which, according to Hunter, is, that the solids which produced it are m good health ; for these appearances in the matter are no more than the result of certain salu- tary processes going on in the solids, the effect of which processes is to produce the disposition on which both suppuration and granulation depend Besides the above properties, pus has a sweetish mawkish taste, very difl'erent from that of most other secretions; and this, whether it be pus from a sore, or from an inflamed surface. It has likewise a smell in some degree peculiar to itself; but differ- ent in different cases. Some diseases, it is said may be known by the smell of the discharge as' for mstance, gonorrhoea and ulcerated cancer? ' ' Pus sinks in water, but mucus gen'erallv floats ; not always, however, for the mucus se- creted by the lining of the bladder, as is well known, always sinks to the bottom of the vessel m which the urine is received. The elastic vis- cous quality of mucus, a quality which never be- longs to pus, seemed to Dupuytren a much better criterion. (See Diet, de Med. el de Chir t xi p. 6.) • • Pus communicates to water a uniformly troubled white colour; mucus gives the appearance of stringy portions floating in it. Mucus is said to be inore readily dissolved by sulphuric acid than pus IS. It has also been asserted, that, if water he added to such solutions, the pus is precipitated to the bottom of the vessel ; while the mucus in- stead of being completely precipitated, forms swim- T T 2