370 (ESOPHAGUS. less degree of iiiflamraiition, may alone result. The impaction of a considerable body, even though not attended by immediate danger, causes much distress at first, though in some cases a remarkable tole- rance becomes established. A sense of constriction at the top of the sternum, and pain of a remittent or persistent character, a constant attempt to vomit, and a flow of saliva, which may be tinged with ■blood when the wall of the canal has been injured, are among the most common symptoms. The face and eyes are suffused, the breathing more or less impeded, and in thin persons with long necks, the foreign body, if of any size, may sometimes be felt by external examination. The diagnosis of foreign bodies in the (esophagus is not in general difficult, though cases every now and then occur in which very considerable hesita- tion may be ielt. The sensation produced by the presence of the foreign body is frequently of use in a diagnostic point of view, and yet, as we have seen, it is often deceptive. The embarrassment of the breathing and swallowing,—it may be the detection of the intruder from without by the hand, or the finding of it with the finger or with instruments introduced into the throat,—or discovermg it by insnection of the gullet when the tongue is well drawn forwards and depressed, and lastly the ac- count of the case as detailed to us, will in general suffice. , ,. . , As to the removal of foreign bodies from the g\illet, it may be remarked that when abandoned to the natural efforts they are got rid of in one of three ways. They are either brought up and ejected ; passed downwards along the canal and expelled ; or they work their way to the surface through the walls of the ossophagus by ulceration, and so escape. The surgeon imitates these efforts, and adopts one or otherplan, according to the nature of the impacted body and its position in the canal. First: Foreign bodies may be removed by producing or encouraging vomiting, or simply by withdrawing them (with or without the aid of instruments) through the mouth. Before consider- ing these plans, however, it may be remarked that we should not lose time in employing measures to subdue any inflammation which may be present, but at once proceed to extract the foreign body, and thus remove the exciting cause of the infiam- mation. In some cases an emetic has been found uselul in getting rid of a foreign body, but such a remedy must be employed with caution ; as, if the intrud- ing body be sharp or angular, the efforts to vomit will be apt to drive it more deeply into the tissues, and will greatly increase the subsequent inflam- mation. If the body be firmly impacted, experi- ence has shown that considerable danger of rupturing the canal arises from violent emesis. Tartar-emetic has been administered in such cases by the mouth and rectum, and has been even injected into a vein, but tickling the fauces will be found sufiicient and more manageable, in the few cases in which it is desirable to produce vomiting. Striking the patient smartly between the shoulders or on the sternum has sometimes the effect of assisting ex- pulsion. Extraction by means of fitting instruments is the proper treatment when the body is within reach, ' especially when it is hard and irregular. and Many metallic bodies are peculiarly pernicious when impacted in the oesophagus, not only on ac- count of their hardness, but also from their chemical action. Pins and needles, sharp bones, &c., adhering to the walls of the upper part of the canal, can some- times be removed with the nail of the finger; and an attempt to hook out any foreign body situated h''gh in the tube should be made with the finger, if a proper instrument is not at hand. It has recently been well shown how by raising the windpipe, and holding it upwards and forwards with the left hand, the right can be greatly assisted in removing any obstruction, and how much easier and deeper an effort at extraction may thus be made. Forceps of many forms have been invented for the extraction of foreign bodies from the throat. Some are varied as to the angle at which they are bent in the blade or limbs, so as to adapt themselves to the canal. The blades of some open longitudi- nally, and those of others laterally. The crane- billed forceps of Gensoul has a contrivance external to the grasping point, which keeps the mucous membrane from becoming entangled in the blades. Whatever kind of forceps are employed, the blades should be bevelled at the edges, so as not to injure the mucous membrane wlien they are used. When forceps are employed, the blades are introduced closed, the patient's head being thrown as far back as possible and supported; and when the offending body is found the blades are opened, and an attempt made to grasp what we wish to remove. The efforts of extraction are then to be made with care and gentleness. A hard foreign body which can be felt may sometimes be displaced when impacted by the application of the hand, and so the natural efforts at expulsion aided, or the action of the for- ceps supplemented by gentle manipulation with the hand on the sides of the neck. Hooks of various kinds are occasionally employed to remove foreign bodies. The double blunt hook ofGroBffis probably the best of this kind. The whalebone stem, being attached to the double hook by a hinge, enables the instrument to adapt itself better to the body to be removed. Baudens has re- introduced an old instrument formed like a parasol, which was expanded by the action of a screw in the handle, or simply by the movement of witii- drawal, so soon as the foreign body had been passed. All such instruments, however, must, for obvious reasons, be used with great caution. I'atal con- sequences have followed the careless emploj'iuent of hooks. Snares of many kinds are also resorted to for the removal of small and sharp bodies. They are formed of numerous loops of wire, or thread, or horsehair, or catgut, as in the various inventions of Petit, Marechal, Elliot, and others. Elliotts niatrument is both ingenious and useful. It is composed of a whalebone stem inserted into a full- sized male catheter, the lower extremity of which has been removed. The whalebone is made to exceed the catheter in length by about an inch at the upper and about three inches at its lower end. The upper end is roughened, so as to enable it to be firmly grasped. To the lower extremity of the whalebone a piece of sponge is attached, and be- tween this and the end of the catheter catgut or horse-hair is stretched all round the instrument, the one end of the layer of hairs being bound to the whalebone below the sponge, and the other end being firmly tied to tiie extremity of the catheter It follows from this arrangement that