THORAX, INJURIES Gamgce the pericardium was not torn. There is (ilso reason to believe that tlie heart may be rup- tured aa a result of severe falls, even when the chest has not sustained the force of the blow. Contusions of the chest may be followed by in- flammation and suppuration below the muscles, and the formation of deep collections of pus, which before they come to the surface will cause much pain and constitutional disturbance. An obscure fluctuation may occasionally be found, but from the depth at which the pus lies it is not easily made out. A prominence, however, of the part, heat, redness perhaps, and pain, with the history of the case, will clear up the diagnosis. The pus should be evacuated early. Sometimes the ab- scess makes its way into the axilla. After evacua- tion, pressure on the part, the retained patency of the orifice, and the fixtui-e of the arm on the affected side will fulfil the requirements of the case-. Wounds of the chest may be penetrating, i.e. may open the pleura, or not, and they may either be incised, punctured, lacerated, or contused. It is generally not difficult, after a time, to decide that a wound has penetrated the pleural cavitv, but it is far from easy, in many cases, to deter- mine positively that it has not. The probe is not employed in such cases, for fear of the harm it may occasion; but the finger may, in many in- stances, be used with advantage if great gentleness is employed. It is chiefly by a consideration of the direction of the wound, the nature of the wounding agent, and the extent of the blood-mark on it—if it is a knife or such weapon—and the effects which follow, that we decide this important point. Simple non-penetrating wounds are of frequent occurrence, and require simple treatment like simi- lar wounds of other parts. It is always important to fix the chest so as to obtain rest during cica- trisation, and prevent the formation of sinuses, which otherwise are apt to occur. The wound itself will require such dressing as its features demand, but in general " water dressing " will suffice. The complications which may attend wounds of the parietes are (a) violent hEemorrhage from a wounded vessel, such ,is an intercostal, the inter- nal mammary, &c. Wounds near the clavicle or axilla are very dangerous, on account of the risk of serious bleeding; (i) fracture or injury of bone or cartilage; (c) the presence of foreign bodies; («/) injury to the mammary gland in the female; (c) emphysema. (a) When an intercostal artery is wounded, and cannot be commanded by pressure on the bleeding point or tied (to effect which it may be requisite to enlarge the original wound), then a double ligature (must be carefully passed round the rib, and tied, so Jas to close the vessel on both sides of the orifice. (The most efficient method of applying pressure is [by the finger, the wound being in the first instance enlarged so as to admit of its exact application. In this way efficiency is usually secured, and the es- cape of pus is unobstructed, while no risk of irrita- tion and sloughing is run, as when a large and espe- l i.-illy an absorbing foreign body, like a sponge or mass of lint, is introduced. If the wound pene- trates the pleura, and is a narrow one, the bleeding from such a vessel may be long concealed, as little may escape externally till the wound is enlarged, f H the many suggestions which have been, at va- OF THE. 723 rious times, made for commanding this most trouble- some, though by no means common, complication of wounds of tile chest, few are of any real practical value. Well applied and continued pressure should be first tried (if the orifice in the vessel cannot be seen and closed with a thread), and if that fails, or is inefficient, or is unprocurable from the relay of assistants required, then the double ligature should be applied aa above described. It has been suggested that if any doubt exists as to whether the blood cornea from an intercostal artery or the interior of the chest, to introduce a piece of card, bent so as to form a gutter, and then observe whether the blood flows along it (as it would do from an intercostal lying under the border of the upper rib), or trickles out below the card (as it would if coming from the interior). By eye and finger^ however, there is usiially abundant evidence obtained of the source of the bleeding. The internal mammary is very rarely reached in wounds, but when it is opened it is a serious compli- cation, as great haemorrhage may take place into the pleural cavity or the mediastinum, and yet little escape externally. The pericardium, too, may be opened, and the bleeding take place into it. The danger is great in cases in which this ves- sel is wounded, both on its own account and its usual association with lesion of other important parts. The symptoms are those of external or in- ternal haemorrhage with those due to any further accompanying complication such as wounds of lung, heart, &c., superadded. Pressure may be got to command the bleeding, and the finger, or the limb of a pair of forceps, covered with lint, will serve best for applying it ; but it is better to en- large the wound and tie the vessel, if at all prac- ticable, the cartilaginous portion of a rib beinf removed, if necessary, to enable us to effect this. It is not infrequent for the cartilage of one or more ribs to be divided in the original wound, so that we have less scruple in having recourse to this proceeding. The lower down the vessel is wounded, the more difficult it is to secure. Goy- rand's method of ligaturing the internal mammary, as described by him in the number of the Lancelt'e fmngaiseiov Sep. 30, 1834, is probably the best, yet it is but une operation d'amphiUiedtre—the only reliable method being to get at the vessel by the wound. {b) When the ribs or sternum are fractured, they may cause tearing of the pleura, lungs, heart, or great blood-vessels. Any loose fragment must be removed with caution, and the fracture treated as is elsewhere described. (c) Foreign bodies must be early removed. If the wound be a penetrating one, the presence of such agents may prove most dangerous and des- tructive. They may be found sticking in the ex- ternal wound, or they may have passed into the lungs or heart, or they may have fallen into the cavity of the chest, and be lost. Small metallic bodies occasionally become encysted in the walls or cavity of the thorax, but as a rule their presence is extremely hurtful, and no ellort sliort of doing more harm than can follow their being abandoned should be wanting to remove them. It is nmst re- markable how broken blades may be overlooked when concealed by the soft parts, as cases are not wanting in which portions of knives, stilettos, &c. have been impacUid in the walls of the chest for long periods till the irritation, pain, and inflanimatioa 3 A 2