nues, and afterwards the adoption of such measures as may be required to command inflammation. If there is violent pain and augmented actionafter the collapse has passed olF, opiates may be used with advantage. Local or even general bleeding, digitalis, salines, and blisters may be called for if the resulting inflammation is severe; and cold may also be uselul if applied to the prajcordium. Wounds of the great vessels are not unfrequentin penetrating injuries of the chest, and they are generally fatal; yet extraordinary exceptions have been observed, as, for example, the ascending aorta being wounded and yet the patient surviving for months. The effects are similar to those produced by wounds of the heart.] George II. B. Macleod. THROAT, WOUNDS OF, are often attended ■with considerable danger, on account of the great number of important parts liable to be implicated; but mere cuts of the integuments of the throat and neck are not, generally speaking, dangerous, and do not materially differ from common incised wounds of the skin in any other part of the body. They are not liable to be followed by any particu- lar consequences, and require the same kind of treatment as cuts in general. (See Wounds —Incised Wounds.) In wounds of the throat and neck, however, the larynx and trachea, pharynx and oesophagus, the common carotid artery, and all the principal branches of the external carotid, the jugular vein, the pneumogastric nerve, the descendens noni, the laryngeal nerves, are all exposed to injury; some much more so than others, but all of being occa- sionally reached by the edge of the knife, or razor, or the point of the sword, or other instruments. It would be an absurdity to offer an account of what is to be done in cases attended with some part of the mischief above pointed out; for no patient, thus wounded, would ever be found alive. A wound of the pneumogastric nerve was generally considered fatal, though some doubts begin to be entertained on the point. Indeed, Klein positively states that such an injury is not fatal. {See Juurn. der Chir. B. i. p. 123. 8vo, Berlin, 1820.) However, if the wound of one of these nerves be not absolutely fatal, there can be no doubt of its being highly perilous. The nerve, a? is well known, proceeds down the neck, in the same sheath which includes the carotid artery, lying between the artery and the internal jugular vein. A wound of the carotid artery must generally prove immediately fatal, in consequence of the great and sudden loss of blood. Hovt^ever, were any surgeon on the spot at the moment, he should instantly secure the vessel. In tying the carotid, one caution is highly necessary, viz. always to be sure that the pneumogastric nerve is excluded fnim the ligature; for were this nerve to be tied, the mistake, if not absolutely mortal, would leave but a slight possibility of recovery. If the mouth of the vessel could-not he at once secured, pressure should be instantly resorted to, for the purpose of producing a temporary suppres- sion of the hfcmorrhage. The surgeon should then either make the necessary enlargement of the wound in the integuments, with a due and constant recollection of the important parts near the vessel or in the case of the carotid being pimctured, he THROAT, WOUNDS OF. 7.39 should cut down to this vessel in the manner ex- plained in the article Aneuri.sm. In lacerated wounds, the carotid artery may be injured, and yet the patient not immediately bleed to death; for it is the nature of all wounds, at- tended with much laceration and contusion, not to bleed so freely as clean cuts. Abernethy has related a case, in which the carotid, and all the chief branches of it, were wounded in a man who was gored in the neck with a cow's horn; yet death did not directly follow, and there was time to have recourse to the ligature. Baron Larrey even reports one or two cases in which the bleeding from the carotid, injured by gunshot, was perma- nently stopped by pressure. (See Mem. de Chir. mil.) Dr. Hennen refers to another instance of a shnihar nature. {On Mititanj Surgery, p. 106. Punctured wounds might obviously injure the carotid, or the internal jugular vein; without the patient expiring of ha;morrhage at once; because tlie smallness of the wound in the skin might hinder the fatal effusion of blood. Moderate pressure would also arrest the venous ha;morr- hage, and thus the patient might be permanently saved. Persons who attempt suicide by cutting their throats do not often divide the carotid arterj', on account of their incision being made too high up. Where the carotid arteries emerge from the chest, they are situated by the side of the trachea, and even a little more forward than it. However as these vessels proceed up the neck, they become more laterally situated with respect to the wind- pipe ; and when they have arrived at the upper part of the neck, where persons, who aim at sui- cide, almost always cut, they become situated more backward, inclining towards the angle of the lower jaw. The oesophagus is so deeply situated, lying close to the bodies of the vertebra;, and behind the tra- chea, that one might d priori expect that it would not often be concerned in any incised wounds, which do not immediately prove fatal, in conse- quence of the division of other important parts. Yet numerous cases are recorded, in which the oesophagus is said to have been wounded ; and what ia usually set down as a criterion of the fact, is the passage of the victuals through the wound. In many of these narrations, the writers seem to have forgotten, that wounds made above the hyoid bone, as they frequently are, or between It and the thyroid cartilage, may penetrate to the fauces, and the victuals escape through the cut without the ojsophngus or pharynx being really in- volved. A case of the later kind was lately brought to University College Hospital, attended with complete detachment of the epiglottis. The patient lived but a few hours. (See Ei-iglottis.) I have seen several cases in which the resopha- gus was wounded, together with the trachea, not only without the patient perishing so immediately as to be incapable of receiving any succour, but • without every chance of recovery being destroyed. Stabs and gunshot wounds may injure the (eso- phagus, and leave all other important parts un- touched. Nay, when other parts of consi-queuce are injured, the pati(Mit is sometimes saved. (See llcimen's Mililari/ Surgcr;/, p. od. 2.) Kven when the (csopliagus is known to bo wounded, its deep situation would prohibit us