the leg, instead of being nt right-nnglea to it. Tlie peculiar position assumed by this "bone does not result from a movement of transverse rotation, as described by Scarpa and other autlioritics, but depends upon the vertical, or nearly vertical, posi- tion assumed by the astragalus. Tlie cuboid bone is neither altered in form nor position in any material degree. The cuneiform and metatarsal bones are very little, if at all, altered in their normal relations to eacli other, and to the navicular and cuboid bones. The inverted position which the anterior part of the foot holds with respect to the leg, essentially depends upon the altered position of the navicular bone and of the os calcis and astragalus. The malleoli are neither altered in form nor position. The inner malleolus is of its full natural form and size in infantile varus, a fact of great importance, as Dr. Little informs us: "The inward inclination of the fore-part of the foot, which con- stitutes the difference between talipes varus and talipes equinus, has, by Stromeyer, been attributed to deficiency of the inner malleolus. Delpech and Cruveilhier are likewise of opinion that this cause also greatly contributes to the persistence of talipes varus. The author (Dr. Little) has never observed, in foetal or adult instances of dissected talipes varus, any material deficiency of this pro- cess." On Deformities, p. 250; by Dr. Little (London, 1853). In adult cases, however, tlie inner m.illeolus will be found to be verv much below its natural size, and flattened where it has rested upon, and imperfectly articulated with, the navicular bone, and it was probably from the dissection of adult specimens that the observa- tions were made. Such changes may, however, be regarded as belonging to the series of acquired or superadded conditions from age, and the use of the foot. With respect to the bones generall3', it may be observed that at the period of birtii, they are a little below the full natural size, and that the astra- galus is considerably malformed. This does not depend upon any defective power of development in the bone itself, but is determined by the mal- position of two of the bones with which it articu- lates—viz., the navicular bone and the os calcis. The altered form of the astragalus, therefore, is a result, rather than a cause, of the deformity, and one from which the only chance of recovery is in proportion to the early period at which the de- formity is cured. The displaced navicular bone and OS calcis may be brought into their natural position by tenotomy, as soon after the first month from birth as the circumstances of the case permit. L1G.4MBNTS. — \n slight cases of varus, and even ij) cases of a moderate degree of severity, none of the ligaments are found to be contracted to an extent sutHcient to interfere with the resto- ration of the foot, after division of the tendons of the contracted muscles ; but in severe and rigid cases, the ligaments will be found, at the period of birth, to have adapted themselves in length and form to the altered position of the bones they naturally serve to connect; and so firmly do they maintain the bones in the deformed position of the foot, tliat even after division of all the contracted tendons, the foot cannot be re.itnred to its natiu-al form. The rigidity, therefore, with which the foot is held in its deformed pnsition at birth, depends, not only upon muaculur contraction. TALIPES. 677 but also upon the e.ttent to which this adapted shortening of the ligaments has taken place during the latter part of the intra-uterine growth of the bones. The most obviously shortened ligaments in severe ca>es of varus at the period of birth are the deltoid, the anterior |iortion of which prevents the navicular bone being drawn sufficiently out- wards from the inner malleolus; and the posterior ligamentous bands of the ankle-joint, which pre- vent the 03 calcis being depress'd to its normal e.'ctent. In some cases, the ligaments in the sole ol the foot—the calcaneo cuboid, calcaneo-siaphoid, and the other ligamentous bands passing between the tarsal bones—are also shortened, and the plantar fascia is shortened and contracted to a very marked degree. The ligaments on the con- vexity of the foot, and in front of the ankle-joint are found to be elongated, more especially the outer portion of the ligament passing between the neck of the astragalus and the navicular bone, by the displacement of which this ligamentis stretched over the exposed portion of the head of the astra- galus; and also the anterior portion of the capsular ligament of the ankle-joint, which is stretched over the extruded portion of the superior articular surface of the astragalus. Muscles.—As a general rule, both in slight and even severe cases of varus, all the muscles are found to be in a healthy condition, and developed to very nearly, if not quite, their normal size at the period of birth; though, if the deformity be allowed to continue, the muscles do not grow from their state of inaction—as in healthy limbs, and therefore remain of small size. In some very severe cases, important structural changes in the muscles occur; the muscles on the anterior and outer aspects of the leg have been found to be very imperfectly developed in several instances. In one case examined by the late Professor Quekett and myself, the muscular fibres in these structures were all hut absent; we found no trace of muscular structure in the situation of the tibialis amicus, extensor proprius poUicis, or perouei muscles, and only a few small fibres connected with the tendon of the extensor loiigus digitorum. The place of the muscular structure in the above situations was occupied by fibrous and adipose tissue. The posterior muscles were well develope.l. The fibres of the tibialis posticus were larger than in any other specimen examined. The niuscular fibres 111 the external half of the soleus muscle were in a state of granular and fatty degeneration. h\ another case the g.astroeiiemius muscle was uii- symmetrically developed, the internal head and halt ot the muscle being hypertropliied, and tlie external head and half of the muscle imperfectly developed, and in a state of fatty degeneration, riie tibialis anticus and posticus muscles were lully developed and apparently hypertropliied. 1 he extensor loiigus digitorum and peroneus ter- tuis might almost be said to be absent, as far as their muscular filires were concerned, only an ex- tremely attenuated layer of muscular fibres repre- senting the extensor muscle. The pcroiiei were nioderalely well developed. (See Trans. I\Uh. Suo vol. iii.) However difficult it may be to exphiin the arrest of development and degeneration of certain muscles or portions of muscles, in some cases of talipes