890 UTERUS, RETROVERSION AND RETROFLEXION OF. complete retroversion, within the hollow of the sacfum, seems to obviate the possibility of natural recovery " (il/. Bai/iihum, Op. cit. p. 262). In all cases, after the bladder has been relieved, attention should be immodiately directed to tlie state of the rectum; for the degree of pressure made upon it has been known in some cases to re- sist tlie passage even of an injection (See Inykby, iu Edinb.Med. Journ. No. 122, p. 139). [Tlie history of retroversion of the gravid womb is well given by Cooper. But of late years our knowledge of this displacement in the pregnant and non-pregnant conditions, and of the diseases with which it may be confounded, h.as become much more extensive and precise. Schmidt's observations, quoted by Cooper, as to the fre- quency of retroversion and retroflexion in non- pregnant women have been confiimed ; and proofs have accumulated showing that these positions of the non-pregnant .uterus commonly account for the like displacements in the pregnant. Schmidt contended ibr this. Tyler Smith {Manual of Obstetrics, 1856, ajid Obstetrical Transactions, 1861) relates cases in proof. Scanzoni adopts this view, and there can now scarcely remain a doubt that the opinion of Denman ascribing retro- version to the distension of the bladder is erroneous, an instance of placing to varepov TVporepov. For this reason it is desirable in the first place to describe the backward displacements of tlie non-gravid uterus. Pure retroversion, whether in the gravid or non-gravid, is perhaps rare; there is almost invariably some degree of flexion at the seat of the os internum uteri, the os externum pointing downwards. Retroflexion is sometimes congenital; certainly I have frequently observed it in virgins of all ages. During infancy nothing arises to call attention to it; but after menstrua- tion is established, distress begins. Dysmenorrlicea, sense of forcing or bearing down, lumbo-sacral pains, interruption of the functions of the lower bowel, as constipation, and hence retrograde dis- turbance of the whole alimentary canal, sooner or later follow. ' Haemorrhoids frequently attend, and are apt to attract exclusive attention. Later on, the difiiculty of defecation leads to a degree of paralysis of the muscular coat of the intestines, so that it is only by copious and frequent enemata or powerful purgatives that relief is obtained. The retention of excrementitious matter in the alimentary canal leads to gradual slow empoison- ment of the blood by absorption, and a condition that may be called chronic copra;mia is established. Healthy nutrition of the nervous centres is at an end. The general health suflFers ; depression of mind, and other nervous symptoms set in ; and the patient becomes a confirmed invalid, the true cause not being suspected. Once existing, the displacement almost certainly undergoes aggrava- tion. Under the menstrual issues there is perio- dical congestion of the organ; the flexion at the neck impedes the natural subsidence of this con- gestion; and the intestines loaded with freces or distended with air pressing upon the fundus, press the enlarged body further back; and thus some enlargement of the body becomes permanent, adding to the local distress. If piles be present and lead to examinatii)n of the rectum by the fingLT, ilm enlarged retrollexed body of the uterus may be felt as a rounded firm mass bulging out the recto-vaginal septum, and lying low down in the hollow of the sacrum. The real nature of this tumor will be determined by examining by vagina. The finger detects the os uteri directed downwards, perhaps a little forwards, towards the middle of the pelvis; behind it, the rounded tumour already felt by the rectum is now felt by vagina; if the abdominal walls arc flaccid enough, or if the examination is made under chloroform, the other hand, applied above the pubes to meet the examining finger, will determine the absence of the body of the uterus from its normal position; and lastly the uterus sound, properly curved, and the point directed backwards, after fairly entering the cervical canal, by penetrating to the fundus uteri, and restoring it to its place by bringing the point forwards, proves to demonstration tiiat the case is retroflexion of the uterus. This restoration of the uterus must be conducted carefully, tenta- tively, because adhesion from previous peritonitis may exist, fixing the uterus. E. Rigby and others have pointed out that part of the pain attending retroflexion is due to the ovaries being compressed behind and below the fundus. In the majority of cases, however, the ovaries sup- ported on either side in the broad ligaments are kept clear from this compression; and the ovarian pain is due to the permanent congestion they suffer from the obstruction to the fulfilment of their function depending upon the abnormal con- dition of the uterus. This form of retroflexion, which may be called primitive, in contrast with the secondary or acquired form, although frequently entailing ste- rility, does not do so in all cases. Now it is very easy to understand, that when a retroflexed uterus becomes gravid, the body of the organ, which is the exclusive habitat of the ovum, will continue to grow in the situation in which impregnation found it. The fundus is in the pelvis; it lies back in the hollow of the sacrum; as it enlarges, it will, about the end of the third month, or a little later, fill the hollow of the sacrum and become engaged under the promontory. If the promontory overhang the brim more than usual, the fundus may be detained under it; and con- tinuing to grow, the organ gradually rotates more upon its transverse axis, so that the cervix and os rise and approach the symphysis pubis, the broad ligaments being the hypomochlion upon which the rolling backwards takes place. In such ease^ and in all cases in which retroflexion existed before pregnancy, the os points doivnwards, although it changes its position by being lifted up beluna the symphysis as the pregnancy advances, \\baii this stage is reached, the cervix rising, drags the base of the bladder upwards, and compresses tUe neck of the bladder against the pubic bones; ami retention of urine arises. Dr. G. S. Bedford relates a case in which a degree of paraplcgui was iiroduced by pressure upon the sacnd plexus ; ana oedema of the lower extremities is not u"'^""- Tlie pressure upon the womb sometimes disteaos and forces open the anus. , Retroflexion or retroversion of the gravid womD may occur in several ways. There .^^ J^"^ condition just relerred to of primitive re'» ^^'^"^ persisting during pregnancy. Secondly, " -^j. .1 contiimation of retroflexion <'^'\'"'S pregnancy, or the result of a previous laboiu Thhdiy, the retroflexion may have been caus.d