SPECULUM, tact with tlie end of the sound, and such a sensation in;iy be commiuiicated to the surgeon's fingers as loads him to suspect that a fungus, or some other liardish extraneous substance, is contained in the bladder. In such cases, patients have actually lueu cut for the stone, when no foreign body whatever was present. (See Lithotomv.) SPKCULUM. [Aninsti-ument by which a view may be obtained of the interior of the raucous cavi- ties of the body in the neighbourhood of their na- tural outlets. The speculum ani and speculum uteri are those most frequently in use, but instru- ments have been devised for the inspection of the liirynx (laryngoscope), of the pharynx (rhinoscope), of the interior of the eye (ophthalmoscope), and even of the deeper parts of the urethral canal and of the bladder (endoscope). There is also the speculum auris for the examination of the mem- brana tympani.] SPECULUM, ANL [The instrnraent most commonly employed for the examination of the interior of the rectum is composed of plated metal, and is conical in shape, with a lateral opening about half an inch in width extending along its whole length. It is fitted with a wooden plug, to facilitate its introduction, the plug being of course withdrawn as soon as it has been passed into the bowel. The speculum is directed so that its la- teral opening corresponds to any ulcer or other morbid condition which it is desired to examine. The edges of the instrument should be smooth and well-rounded, or they may cause the part to bleed, and the view will be thereby impeded. Specula of glass, coated externally with vulcanite, similar to those in common use for the vagina, are also very convenient, especially for the application of nitric acid to an ulcer within the rectum. When it is desired to cauterise the interior of the rectum mi re extensively, as in cases of haemorrhage from a hyperaemic condition of the mucous membrane near the anu.», the three-bladed expanding specu- lum will be found exceedingly useful. (See Rec- TU.M, Diseases op.)] [SPECULUM, UTERINE. The speculum uteri appears to be one of the most ancient of sur- gical instruments. In 1818, there were disinterred ut Pompeii, amongst other instruments, two specula. These are really the prototypes of all the specula subsequently made. They are figured in Vulpe's lUustrazioni di lutti gli strnmenli ckirurgici scavali i?i Ercolano e Pompei, 1847 ; and are pre- served in the Museo Borbonico, at Naples. As Pompeii was overwhelmed a.d. 79, the specu- lum must have been in use before that date. Ae- tius, who lived four centuries later, described its use. Jacob Rueffus (1587) figures and de- scribes it. Scultetus {Armamenta Chimryica, 16.50) figures it. The illustrious Harvey had ac- tually used the instrument before this date. So that there is, as Dr. H. C. Wright {Uterine Disor- ders : their Constitutional tnfluence and Treatment, 1807) observes, "a tolerably continuous history of the speculum from the time of Aiitius down to the present day." The modern revival, however, of the speculum, is mainly due to Rdcamier, in 1810". From that time it has been considered an essential means of diag- nosis and treatment of uterine and vaginal diseases. The variety of forms of uterine diseases, and the va- rious aspects from which they have been considered by different practitioners, have given rise to endless UTERINE, 603 modifications of the speculum. They are madJ with two, throe, or four valves, of every variety of shape. Two objects have to be borne in mind in constructing specula. A speculum should be of service in exploring the vagina, and the vaginal portion of the uterus ; it should also enable the surgeon to apply remedies to the structures dis- covered to be morbid. These objects maj-, to a certain extent, be combined in one instrument ; but each is occasionally better attained by devot- ing to it a separate instrument. The most gei-.e- rally useful speculum is the bivalve known as Coxeter's, recommended by Dr. Henry Rennet. The two blades form, when closed, a cylinder, gently tending to a truncated cone. To facilitate introduction, it is furnished with a wooden plug, the end of which forms a rounded knob, and guards the ends of the blades. When introduced, the blades are opened at the uterine ends, by a screw working at the handle. The plug is then withdrawn, and the operator is enabled to see the parts. A common fault in the construction of this form of speculum is in making the tubes formed by the closed blades quite cylindrical ; the blades of exactly equal length, and the groove in the end of the plug which receives the ends of the blades too deep and angular. The consequence is, that when introduced, the pressure exerted on the end of the plug by the uterus, and the contracting fundus vaginae, tending to expel the instrument, fixes the plug so tightly that it is difficult to with- draw it. This error I have obviated completely, by slightly flattening the blades, so that when closed, they form an oval in section, by making the blades of unequal length, and the groove of the plug shallow. By this contrivance, the plug is expelled by the contraction of the vagina, the in- stant the blades begin to open. To use the specu- lum, the patient may lie either on her back or on one side. Some practitioners prefer the left side. If this position be chosen, it is desirable that the couch be rather elevated, and the nates must be drawn over the edge, the head and shoulders must be low, and the thighs well bent upon the abdomen, so as to command the light. Careful examination by the finger should always precede the use of the speculum; first, because the finger may detect con- ditions in which the speculum not only would teach nothing, but would probably do harm. Cancer is one of these conditions. Secondly, the finger may detect conditions concerning which the surgeon can learn nothing further of any value by the speculum. Polypus and fibroid tumors of the uterus are cases of this kind. Thirdly, the touch by ascertaining the position, form, and size of the vaginal-portion of the uterus, serves to guide in the exact applica- tion of the instrument. Fourthly, the finger dis- covers the capacity of the vagina, and thus deter- mines the size and form of instrument to select. The speculum having been warmed by washing in warm water, and lubricated with oil, lard, or soap, is held in the right hand, whilst two fingers of the left hand, one of vvhich has just been used for ex- ploration, gently separate the labia. The end of the speculum is then slipped between the guiding fingers over the edge of the perinreum, and di- rected at first under the pubic arch. It is then soon turned backwards towards the hollow of the sacrum, pushing it steadily onwards, and simulta- neously carrying the handle a little backwards, so as to make the uterine cud describe a circle around