UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OF 882 chance any resembling aperture should he met with upon the corresponding portion of a polypus, the prolapsus may still be known by the greater depth to which a probe will enter such opening. The partial obliteration or deformed appearance of the OS tincte, in some cases, as explained by Cru- veilhier, must be remembered. A polypus ot the uterus is aenerally broadest at that extremity which is nearest the vulva ; but the womb, in a state oi incomplete prolapsus, forms a tumor, which is narrower below than above. With very few ex- ceptions, the womb is likewise reducible, and the patient directly afterwards feels great relief ; whereas a polvpus cannot be pushed back, and the attempt, instead of giving relief, only increases the patient's sufferings. In a complete prolapsus no doubt can ever prevail about the real nature of the case; for what- ever uncertainty the feel of the parts may create, none can ever remain when the swelling is dis- tinctly visible. . In the ircatment of prolapsus uteri, there are two indications: the first is to reduce the part, and the second is to keep it from ialling down °In the incomplete prolapsus, the first indication is very easy of accomplishment; and, indeed, when the patient is placed on her back, with her pelvis raised somewhat higher than her chest, the uterus often returns of itself into its natural situation noain At all events, the reduction may be imme- diately effected by pushing the uterus up into the pelvis witli the fingers. More difficulty generally attends the reduction of a complete prolapsus. Here the same posture is to be chosen as in the former case; but the legs and thighs should be bent. The rectum should also be first emptied with clysters. Sometimes, indeed, every attempt at reduction fails, notwith- Etandinfr the adoption of the most vigorous mea- sures, the use of the warm bath, purgatives, vene- section, low diet, fomentations, &c Occasionally, the part is returned after a great deal of trouble ; but, owing to the long altered state of parts, the reduction brings on worse symptoms than resulted from the continuance of the prolapsus. Such a case is recorded by Richter. (CeW. der CJnr. b. iii p l4l ) The patient's sufferings were so much increased by the reduction, and so obstinate a constipation came on, that it became absolutely necessary to let the uterus descend again. In any irreducible case, all that can be done is to support the swelling, and prevent its increase with a sus- pensory bandage, and draw off the urine with a catheter whenever requisite. In these cases, the altered course of the meatus urinariiis is to be re- membered, and the catheter directed horizontally towards the rectum; or rather, as Ingleby and Cruveilhier state, the catheter should be directed downwards and backwards, with its concavity turned downwards. " It follows also from the kind of displacement which the bladder undergoes, that the catheter first enters the displaced portion of that organ, and is then conveyed by a Icver-bke movement into the portion of it that contim.es in its right place." {Cruveilhier, Anat Pathol. Innlehy,E<Lb.&crfl.Journ. No. 122.) Sometimes the displacement of the bladder, resulting from prolapsus uteri, causes an incontinence of unne, as exemplified in several instances in the Salpctncre alluded to bv M. Cruveilhier. (Livr. 2G.) When the displaced uterus is inflamed and con- siderably swelled, the attempt at reduction should be preceded by antiphlogistic remedies; the patient should be kept in bed, be put on a low regimen, be bled, take purgative medicines, use the warm bath, and drink diluent beverages, while emollient applications are made to the part itself. This plan of treatment has often been attended with complete success, in cases of prolapsus uteri, of long stand- ing and considerable size. Ruysch disapproved of making any attempt to reduce the uterus while it was inflamed and swelled. He also thought that the operation should be postponed when the uterus was in an ulcerated state. However, Sa- batier rightly observes that, as this complication is only accidental and merely arises from the fric- tion to which the tumor is exposed, and the irritation of the urine, the plan of immediately replacin" the part cannot be attended with any danger ° On the contrary, since the cause which produces and keeps up the ulceration will cease as soon as the reduction is accomplished, the sores will heal after the uterus is put into its natural situation again. . When a prolapsus uteri occurs in the early statre of pregnancy, this state shoidd not let the practitioner neglect to reduce the part. Several instances are recorded in which the reduction was successfully accomplished in pregnant women; and one case of this kind is reported by Giraud. (Journ. de Medccine, t. xlv.) When pregnancy is fiir advanced, or the disease is of long standing, the reduction is difficult. Perhaps, says Sabatier, it may be more prudent, in these circumstances, to let the uterus continue protruded, than to dis- turb the mother and fcetus with reiterated attempt^ to reduce the part. The uterus, however should not be left to itself ; but be well supported with a suitable bandage, and the patient kept in bed. When the prolapsus uteri occurs at the period ot delivery, every attempt at reduction is both useless and dangerous. In this case the dehvery of he foetus should be expedited, by gradually dilatmg the OS tinccE, which, at the same time, Bhould be carefully supported. The extraction of the pla- centa afso requires a great deal of caution and t should be accomplished by introducing one hinid nto the uterus, with the palm mrned away- f«m the cavity of this viscus, towards the o"tside of the placenta.'^.vhich is to be gradually separated from its edges towards Its centre. TJnvsch In cases of complete prolapsus ^''fl' ^^^^ was an advocate for leaving the expulsion of t e fcetus if alive, to be effected by "i^ture: and tne Sr'wliter advises us to be content w.t sup J- ing the OS tinea). But, when the ^IhIJ dead n recommends extracting it wj^-^^^"^' ^ta- the uterus is supported with t >e <> J'^'^,^,, The tier, however, entertains d'Aerentsentinients^^ 1 and ab- eSoct of the contraction of the di.ap ag " - dominal muscles than of V^-°:"f;';*'eo.operate,: when either of these "f or ini- '« the possible ■)rhis ,s exactly what ..ppen - ^ present case ; for the uterus '"^'"^ ^"^ ^ „i,do. Lnnot be compressed by ^lap '^^^^ ,,,3 minal muscles. N"^^"" "^^'^^^^^ reason why Rnysch should ■■f7,f;fl-,,e„tstate of conduct to dillcr, according to the o ^^^.^j^i^,,^ of the child. This is quite passive m p