812 ULCERS. cause; and iodide of potassium has been much com- mended by some, and cantharides by others, when any sore is difficult to heal. If the ulcer appears to be connected with chronic skin disease, arsenic is generally highly useful; but otherwise the in- ternal remedies employed in the management of ulcers will depend on the special indication pre- sented to us by the individual case. Tonics, especially those containing iron, are frequently urgently required, and the diet must be regulated according to the case. Locally, our measures are directed to overcome inflammation and allay irritation ; to remove con- gestion and support vveakened vessels ; to stimu- late or soothe the sore as the case may require ; to protect it from the air and external injury. The ordinary antiphlogistic remedies are frequently required, sometimes leeches or scarifications, often fomentations or evaporating lotions, poultices, cold, &c. Position must in most cases be very carefully attended to. It is by prescribing an elevated posi- tion that venous congestion is most efficiently over- come ; while rest to the part and bandaging are essentially necessary in many cases. The nature and condition of the sore must regulate the kind and strength of the applications which are made to its surface. Cleanliness and simplicity should be leading ideas in devising dressings. In very manj"- cases " water-dressing " supplies all the require- ments, if combined with careful bandaging, and that in many cases in which at first sight far more powerful local remedies might be supposed to be demanded. The method of applying water-dress- ing recommended by Mr. Chapman, viz. by strips of lint dipped in water put successively round the limb, as Baynton used adhesive-plaster—these strips being used with firmness, and covered with oiled- silk or gutta percha—and then a bandage from the extremity of the limb, is one of the most efficient methods known for dressing ulcers. It has been largely used by the writer for many years in the out-door department of a large hospital, and he would express the most unqualified approbation of it in very many of the cases which come before one in such a practice. Each strip should be fifteen or sixteen inches long and about two inches broad, and the floccy side put next the skin, as, when wet, it thus adheres with enough of firmness for our pur- pose. The middle of the strip should be put on the side of the limb opposite to the site of the ulcer, and the ends crossed over the sore at such an angle as to make the whole strip fit closely to the surface. The application should be begun a short way below the position of the ulcer and con- tinued for some way above, if it be a simple case ; or from the very extremity of the limb, if the ca- pillary vessels are much affected, and each successive strip should about half overlie the former one. Lead lotion may be substituted for water, or an astrin- gent or stimulant wash applied on the portion of the limb which comes into contact with the sore; but, as was remarked above, it is curious how sel- dom such applications are needed if the lint, wetted ■with water, is carefully applied and the bandaging t'fliciently performed. It is doubtless in the appli- cation of the roller that the fault most commonly lies in the dressing of ulcers. It is not carried forwards to the base of the toes as it should be, and tlie turns on the leg are not so regulated as to cause the bandage to fit closely and equalise the pressure througliout. Many adopt an invariable method of using the roller, making so many circles of the foot, and beginning to reverse the roller al- ways at the same part of the leg, without bearinir in mind the great diversity of shape which the leg assumes, and regulating their movements alone by that. The point sought is to get the roller to com- press the lint evenly and equally; to constrict the limb nowhere, yet to give the most perfect support (like an artificial skin) to the whole, and in order to do this, we must vary our reverses to suit the case in hand. In many instances very few reverses are required at all, the muscles of the calf being little developed, while in others we must begin to turn down the bandage immediately after we pass the ankle. In some the bulge of the calf is very sud- den, and in these cases it is often difficult to pre- vent the roller slipping, while in others it answers best (though the result is not so agreeable to the eye) to reverse only every second turn. When it is wished to leave the roller on for some days, it is a good plan to make the patient " baste" the sides, or wear a cotton-stocking which they can garter below the knee, and not remove at night. When a bandaged limb feels tight and imcomfortable, elevation or the saturation of it with cold water will commonly give relief. Water applications are often attended with a troublesome eruption, and then, if we desire to continue such a remedy, we must limit the wet portion to the ulcer, leaving that which comes into contact with the rest of the surface dry. A little chalk or fine starch-powder sprinkled over the surface will remove the irri- tation complained of, as will a solution of nitrate of silver. Wet strapping is best adapted for ulcers accom- panied by a considerable amount of discharge, and which require compression and support. The lint absorbs the discharge, and so prevents in a great measure the pain which the imprisonment of pus gives rise to. I believe the only reliable rule to regulate the renewal of the lint (or the plaster when it is used) is the feelings of the patient. So long as the limb is comfortable, the application should be left alone ; but so soon as it gets painful, the strapping should be renewed. After water, lotions oi various kinds are the most useful applications we can employ. Most com- monly those of a stimulating or astringent character are needed. Solutions of the metallic salts (zinc, copper, lead, iron, mercury, silver) alone or com- bined are of frequent use. The mineral acids too (nitric, hydrochloric, acetic, sulphuric and sulphur- ous acids) ; vegetable decoctions, infusions and acids ; disinfectants ; sedatives, &c. The more common remedies are sulphates of zinc and copper, acetate of lead, nitrate of silver, black and yellow wash, bichloride of mercury, the potassio-tartrate and other salts of iron, chloride of lime, perman- ganate of potash, carbolic acid, solution of opmm, &c., &c. ITey's red-wash is probably as efficient an ap- plication of a stimulant nature as could he used for ulcers, if the precaution be taken to begin usuig it weak, and augment the strength as the require- ments of the case indicate. It consists, as is well known, of the following ingredients and propor- tions : Sulphate of zinc, sixteen grains ; compouutt tincture of lavender and spirit of rosemary, two drachms ; and water to eight ounces. This sliouia in most cases be diluted by the addition of an equ.-vl quantity (or more) of lukewarm water, to a strengtU