SOUND (UTERINE). with the hj'pocliloride of sulphur ointment, with an ointment of the iodide of sulphur, or with ioduretted glyceiine, and painting with the stronger alkaline solutions, are among the more forcible remedies ; while in less severe cases, a lotion of the bichloride of mercury may be suc- cessful. After the use of the strong alkaline solu- tions, it will be desirable to apply a starch poultice, or some mild protective ointment, such as that of the acetate of lead or camphor. Diseases of the sebtparous glands arise chiefly from want of healthy vitality of the skin; some occurring in youthful life, when the powers of the integument are not yet attained, for example, acne; others, in adult age, such as encysted tumors; and some in elderly persons, for example, sebaceous ichthyosis of the face, and carcinoma. Some of these affections are associated with an excess of secretion, which may therefore be con- sidered as morbid; and others with a deficiency. The purpose of treatment should be to give tone and vigour to the skin; and this we may effect by constitutional means, as by bitter and ferru- ginous and acid tonics, and by arsenic; and locally by the aid of soaps, sulphur ointment, and lotions of sulphur and of the bichloride of mer- cury. The morbid sebaceous secretions may alvvaj's be removed by saponaceous and mildly alkaline remedies, however hard and horny they may be in their dried state; and this removal must be effected before stimulant applications can be made to act upon the skin, to stimulate it to more healthy action. This is the principle of treat- ment of stearrhoea,of sebaceous ichthyosie,and even of sebaceous xeroderma. Horns may be softened by poultices and alkaline applications, and on their removal, the skin upon which they had grown may be brought into a healthy condition by mild stimulants. The tubercles of molluscum may be touched with a solution of equal parts of potassa fusa and water. They are commonly de- veloped in scrofulous children, and this treatment may be advantageously accompanied with the constitutional treatment adapted to the scrofulous diathesis. Sebaceous accumulations may be squeezed out of their sac, often without enlarg- ing the dilated aperture of the follicle; at other times a small incision may be necessary to assist their release. Encysted tumors are best treated by incision and avulsion of the horny sac which constitutes their cyst. Acne is a consequence of lowered tone of the skin, and generally of weak powers of constitution, hence it will require gene- ral tonics at first, and subsequently the operation of arsenic, while the external treatment should consist pf frictions with the bypochloride of sul- phur ointment or of sulphur lotions or paste, and copious ablutions with soap. Disorders of perspiraliun rarely present them- selves in an acute form so as to require antiphlo- gistic treatment; they are commonly dependent on debility, for example, sudden perspirations on slight exertion, or night perspirations, and yield to the use of sulphuric acid and quinine. Foetid perspiration, though in general constitutional, may often be much alleviated by regulating the functions of digestion, and in improving assimila- tion. For this purpose, when ordinary alteratives and tonics have effected all of which they are capable, a course of arsenic is sometimes c-idvantn- goous. Local treatment in the way of soaps, cm ablutions and the cold shower or sponging bath cannot be insisted on too strongly. Malis and scabies, depending on a living cause of irritation, on or in the epidermis, and wholly- disconnected with constitutional disorder, require for their treatment only local means; sulphur for scabies; mercurial ointments or washes for pedi- culi, and sulphuro-alkaline ablutions for both. The local remedies for pediculi are, the ammonia- chloride of mercury ointment, with camphor and a few drops of the essential oil of almonds; the bichloride of mercury with alcohol in emulsion of bitter almonds may also be used for the hair, and is the best means of destroying the nids in which the ova are contained, and the unguentum staphi- sagria;, an old popular remedy. To these means may be added ablutions with an abundance of soap night and morning. For the pediculi pubis infesting the eyelashes, the best application is the nitrate of mercury ointment, of moderate strength. In bimis and scalds, and also in frost-bite, the great art of the surgeon is to restore the vitality of the injured tissues, and in the case of burns and scalds to exclude the contact of the air, and particularly of that most stimulating, and, to weakened tissues, most irritating element of the atmosphere, oxygen. Various appliances have at various times been suggested for this purpose, such as the linimentum calcis: a paste of creta praeparata, or the unguentum resinas reduced to the state of liniment by the addition of oil, but none has proved so eminently successful as the in- vention of Hebra, the permanent hot bath, in which he keeps the patient during the whole period of treatment, and until the healing of the skin is accomplished. The water of this bath ia constantly undergoing change, flowing in at one end and out at the other ; it is therefore always clean and fresh, always of the same temperature, and in it the patient reclines upon a soft mattress. The gravity of the water almost floats his body, and obviates the pressure on the dependent parts, which would otherwise be occasioned by his mere weight, and the flayed surface is preserved of the same continuous and grateful temperature, and always moist, a perfect dressing throughout the cure. For a more complete description of the treat- ment of burns and scalds, and also of frost-bite, we must refer the reader to the special articles devoted to these subjects in this Dictionary.] Erasmus Wilson. SOUND. An instrument which surgeons in- troduce through the urethra into the bladder, in order to discover whether there is a stone in this viscus or not. The sound is made of highly po- lished steel, in order that it may convey to the surgeon's fingers the sensation of any thing against which its end may strike. It is also generally rather less curved than a catheter, and the curved part shorter, so that its extremity may be more easily inclined to the lower part of the bladder where the stone is most frequently situated. How- ever, some practitioners occasionally employ a sound which is straigiit, except a small portion oV it near the back, which, after the introduction of the instrument, is turned down to either side so as to touch any calculus lodged just behind 'the prostate gland. [SOUND (UTERINE). The uterine cavity is explored like the bladder by means of sounds. The introduction of sounds of various forms and