OVARIOTOMY. 409 if necessary, with a bistoury ; the tumor ex- and winding it, I drew out about two yards in bility of the tumor, in which case their diagnosis is difBcuIt. The adherent border of the omentum may be removed without danger. Abnormal con- nections between the tumor and intestines will not contraindicate the operation, unless there is a high degree of inflammation, by which the adhesion has been contracted. In such a case, the tumor will be found firmly connected with the intestines, and it will be better to abstain from the operation. Such adhesions are not only very extensive, but also very intricate, the tumor and the neighbour- ing intestine forming almost one mass. If it be impossible to remove the diseased parts: either a portion of the tumor must be left behind, and a protracted and dangerous suppuration would be the consequence; or a portion of the adherent viscus must be removed, which wonld place the life of the patient in jeopardy. He thought that all the different varieties of ovarian degeneration may be extirpated, provided none of the above contraindications were present. The same rules apply also to the dropsy of the tubes. There are ovarian tumors which, after having attained a certain size, will remain stationary. This will be observed sometimes in scirrhus. Such cases should not be interfered with. He concludes with the words : " I am convinced that a time will come when this operation will be considered practicable in more cases than I have enumerated, and that the objections against its performance will cease." John Bell never performed ovariotomy, but Dr. Ephraim iMcDowell,a Virginian practising in Ken- tucky, who attended Bell's course of lectures in Edinburgh in 1794, is said by his biographer. Dr. Gross, to have been " enraptured by the eloquence of his teacher, and the lessons which he imbibed were not lost upon him after his return to his native countrj-. Bell is said to have dwelt with peculiar force and pathos upon the hopeless character of ovarian tumors when left alone, and of the practicability of removing them by opera- tion. It is not improbable that the young Ken- tuckian, while listening to the teaching of the ar- dent and enthusiastic Scotchman, determined in his own mind to extirpate the ovaries of the first case that should present itself to him after his re- turn to his native country. The subject had evi- dently made a strong impression upon him, and had frequently engaged his attention and reflec- tion. He had thoroughly studied the relations of the pelvic viscera in their healthy and diseased conditions, and felt fullj' persuaded of the prac- ticability of removing enlarged ovaries by a large incision through the walls of the abdomen." (Gross's Lives of eminent American Physicians and Surgeons, pp. 209, 212.) Dr. McDowell returned to Kentucky in 1795, and commenced practice at once ; but it was not until fourteen years afterwards that he was con- sulted, in 1809, by a patient upon whom he first performed ovariotomy, and who survived in good health until 1841, and died after the completion of her seventy-eighth year. In 1808, one year before Dr. McDowell's first operation, D'Escher {Considcralions mklicii- chirurgicahs sur Vhyrnpisie encystce des ovaires. T/tise : Montpellier, 1808), suggested the removal of diseased ovaries through an incision along the external border of the rectus muscle. Existing adhesions should be detached vvith the fingers or, tracted and excised after the application of a ligature around the pedicle. The ends of the liga- ture were to be brought out by the wound, the edges of which were kept in close apposition bv lateral pads and a bandage around the body. McDowell's case has long been considered tlie first case of ovariotomy on record; for the operation of L'Aumonier of Rouen, in 1776—which had been referred to as one of ovariotomy, and which even Dr. Little, in his table (published in 1843), enu- merates as the first operation of ovariotomy—was a case of pelvic abscess, which he opened by an incision through the wall of the abdomen above Poupart's ligament, six or seven weeks after par- turition. He seems also to have separated the fimbriae of the fallopian tube from the sac of the abscess, and to have removed the ovary without any necessity', and without any idea of ovariotomy. His case may be found recorded in the Histoire da la Societe Royale de la Mededne, 1782, tom. v. p. 298. Another case, included in some of the tables of ovariotomy by Professor Dzondi, is one in which a pelvic tumor was cured by drawing out a cyst through an incision in the abdominal wall o( a hoy twelve years old. Atlee, however, communicates {in the A7nerican Journal of Medical Sciences, vol. xvii. 1849, p. 534) a case which claims the priority to that of McDowell by more than a century. It is the case of Dr. Robert Houstoiin, which may be found under the head, " A dropsy of the left ovary of a woman aged fifty-three years, cured by a large in- cision made in the side of the abdomen," in the Philosophical Transactions (from the j-ear 1719 to 1733), abridged and disposed under general heads, vol. vii. p. 541 (London, 1734). From this case it will appear that ovariotomy originated with British surgery on British ground. Dr. Robert Houstoun operated, in August 1701, on a Mrs. Margaret Miller, near Glasgow, who since her last confinement, thirteen years before, when twenty-three years of age, sufi"ered from ovarian dropsy. The tumor had grown to a monstrous bulk ; she was much wasted, had great difficulty in breathing, want of appetite and sleep, and bed- sores from long confinement. This case is in many respects a very curious one, and the operator's own words are worthy of record. He says : " After having obtained the patient's consent that, in order eff"ectually to relieve her, I must lay open a great part of her belly, and remove the cause of all that swelling .... I prepared without loss of time what the place would allow, and with an impos- thume lancet laid open about an inch; but finding nothing issue, I enlarged it two inches; but even then nothing came forward but a little thin yellowish serum, so I ventured to lay open two inches more. I was not a little startled, after so large an aperture, to find it stopped only by a glu- tinous substance. All my difficulty was to remove it. I tried my probe—I endeavoured with my fingers, but all was in vain; it was so slippery that it eluded every touch and the strongest hold that I could take. I wanted in this place almost every thing necessary, but bethought myself of a very odd instrument, but as good as the best, because it answered the end proposed. 1 took a strong fir- splinter, wrapped some loose lint about the end of it, and thrust it into the wound; and by turning