.Scrofula, p. 43.) Yet the plain surgeon, in search known. Tiie restoration of the functions of the of practical truths, will not care whether any ]>lan lias a specific power or not over a complaint, il that disorder is sometimes relieved by it. And, that this is the fact, is admitted by Mr. Lloyd, ■vvhen he says, " cold sen-bathing, however, is cer- tainly useful when judiciously applied," &c. &c. (P. 44.) Mr. White, after enjoining attention to air, exer- cise, and diet, as promotive of a recovery, as well SIS a preventive of the disease, proceeds to explain his own practice. The first external symptoms, such as swellings of the lips, sides of the face, and of glands under the chin, and round the neck; also other symptoms, usually considered as strumous, viz. roughness of the skin, eruptions on the back of the hand, and different parts of the bodj^, red- ness, and swelling of the eyelids and eyes; are ac- companied,-according to Mr. White's conceptions, with an inflammatory diathesis, though seldom such as to require bleeding. Calomel is the me- dicine which this gentleman recommends for the removal of the foregoing complaints. It is not to be given in such quantities, as to render it a pow- erful evacnant, either by the intestines, or any other way ; but, in small doses, at bedtime. For chronic swellings of the breast, -suspected to be scrofulous, I would here particularly recom- mend a trial of iodine, which should be used both externally and internally. (See Iodine and Mamma.) When the glands of the neck, or other parts of the body, tend to a state of suppuration, it is very slowly, the skin appearing uniformly thin, and of a deep red colour, and the tumor seeming flaccid. In such cases, Mr. White recommends the use of the lancet or caustic ; for if no artificial opening is made, it will be a long time before the skin gives way; and, when it does, the aperture will not only be very small but often unfavourable in its situa- tion. Mr. White adds, that the contents will often be more like mucus, than pus, or like a mixture of both ; and the discharge will continue for a great length of time, if no remedy is applied. He found a solution of gum myrrhee in aqua calcis, used as a lotion, and the ceratiim saponis, or some similar outward application, the best method of treating this symptom. We need not describe Mr. White's practice in the treatment of scrofulous joints, as the subject is fully considered in the .-uticle Joints. It appears, however, that he confirms the efficacy of stimu- lating applications, and pressure with bandages, when the fingers and toes are affected with stru- mous diseases. (P. 143.) Whoever compares the practice of Mr. White in administering calomel, occasional purgatives, the dedoctum Lusitanicum, sarsaparilla, &c., with the blue pill, sarsaparilla, and laxative treatment of the present day, will perceive no very material difference between them, especially when the stress which Mr. White laid upon attention to diet, clothing, &c. is taken into the account. Mr. Lloyd, who has detailed Mr. Abernethy's practice in scrofula, lays it down as an axiom, that " the disease is only to be cured by avoiding all sources of irritation, and restoring the natural and healthy fimctions of the digestive organs." (P. 48.) By sources of irritation, Mr. Lloyd means exciting causes; the advice is therefore excellent, so far as it can be follovved, or such causes are decidedly VOL. 11. SCROFULA. digestive organs is also a thing worth aiming at; and the only difl'erence in my views from those of Mr. Lloyd is, that, as I look upon the disorder of the digestive organs to be in general only a ' complication, or effect of the scrofulous disease, ulcer, abscess, diseased joint, &c., and not the exciting cause, the treatment, when beneficial, be- comes so only on the principle of improving the general health, by the removal or diminution of one of the most hurtful consequences of the original disease. The treatment, described by Mr. Lloyd, in addition to the usual advice about diet, cloth- ing, the avoidance of damp and cold, and the utility of good air, exercise, &c. consists in giving the patient five grains of the pil. hydrarg. every night, and half a pint of decoct, sarsap. c. twice a day. And if, at a certain hour of the day, there has been no motion, recourse is had to opening medi- cines. This plan is pursued till the bowels be- come regular; and then, with the view of prevent- ing a relapse of the bowels into their former state, Mr. Lloyd continues the exhibition of alterative doses of mercury for an indefinite time, the pre- ference being given to the compound calomel pill, in doses of five grains every night. In children, the practice is exactly like that of Mr. White, viz. small doses of calomel with purgatives. When acidity prevails in the stomach, small doses of soda are recommended ; and when the stomach is weak, with loss of appetite, cinchona, steel, and mineral acids. A full diet, with porter and wine, is dis- approved of, and, as already stated, not much con- fidence is placed in sea-bathing. {Llovd on Scro- fula, p. 38.) Crawford, Pinel, and others tried the muriate of barytes m scrofulous cases {Med. Comimmica- tions, vol. 11. ; Nosojr. PliilosopMque, vol. ii. p. 238); and it had the recommendation of the ce- lebrated Hufeland. Mr. Burns says, that the mu- riate of barytes has no eff"ect on diseased glands ; but, that it is occasionally serviceable in scro- fulous ulceration, though, he adds, that it deserves hule dependence. {Diss, on Iiiftam. vol. ii. p. 3/2,) Several narcotics have been tried, such as opium hyoscyamus, the solanum dulcamara, &c.; but' though their virtues against scrofula have been sometimes cried up very highly, the moderns have fost all faith in them. The attention of the public to the effects of cicuta, in cancer and scrofula, w;is first particulariy excited by the accounts of its vir- tues published by Baron Stork. Fothergill also praises cicuta, and perhaps, ne.vt to iodine, and soda, joined with rhubarb and co- liimba, It IS as good an internal medicine as can bu tried; but It is far from being generally eflicacious. It IS tughly deserving of recommendation for irrit- able scrofulous ulcers. There is now not the least doubt, that the statements of Baron Stork were greatly exaggerated. Ue considered cicuta indi- cated, whenever obstructions and tumors existed- and, under this treatment, he says that he found the swellings melt away like ice. What is extr i ordinary, pvery sort of tumor yielded to cicula. But (as Dr. Thomson judiciously remarks), uni- versal success is always one of the most suspicious circumstances which can be mentioned in the his- tory of the effects produced by any new remedy" {Lfclures, cj-c. p. 199.) Dr. Culleri frequeiftiy employed hemlock, and sometimes found it useful 0 0