OPHTHALMOSCOPE. With fixed instnmients, moreover, a careful inspec- tion of the periphery of the ocular fundus becomes ver}- difficult, since for this purpose the patient must turn his eye in all directions, and will often be required to give it a degree of obliquity that he will be unable with any steadiness to maintain. " The moveable mirrors are free from the above- named defects, and can be so managed as to dis- pl.ay all parts behind the equator of the eye, without any considerable changes in the direction of the organ. They require, however, if used for the examination of the erect image, far more practice and dexterity than the fixed instruments, since it is necessary for the observer, in spite of his prox- imity to his object, to maintain accommodation of his eye for distant vision, and also to hold the mirror with great steadiness, partly in order to keep the image in his field of sight, and partly in order not to dazzle the patient by to-and-fro move- ments of the reflecting surface, such being among the greatest disadvantages of ophthalmoscope ex- amination." {Heymann.) For clinical demonstration, or for observation with little study or practice, or for purposes of exact drawing or measurement, the large instru- ments must be preferred, in which the different parts of the ophthalmoscope, and the eye examined, are all fixed as steadily as possible. Among these, the best are those of Liebreich, Follin, Epkensand Bonders, and the larger one of Ruete ; whde, for hand use, the small, cheap and portable forms, and especially those of C'occius, Zehender, and Hasner, deserve the preference. In most cases, too, a simple concave mirror (the ophthalmoscope of An- agnostakis) will siiflice, if the following proportions be observed : Its focal length should not be less than a", nor more than ] 0", its diameter about 5 centimetres, and the diameter of its central per- foration not more than ?, or 4 millimetre?. Glass mirrors, from which only the metal is removed, are preferable to those with a central perforation. When ocular lenses are required, they must turn easily upon their axes, so as to be applied closely to the back of the mirror. (2) With regard to the illuminaling powers of different ophthalmoscopes, the following observa- tions are made by Zehender : The faintest light is that which is reflected from a plate of unsilvered glass, when the angles of incidence and reflection are 70°. It is necessary, hovvever, to take into account the distance of the reflecting surface from the eye under inspection ; because there is, for everyone, one determinate distance at which it will receive more light than at any other, and within or beyond which the degree of its illumina- tion diminishes. Simple concave mirrors direct upon the examined eye a cone of light, having the reflecting superficies for the base, and of greater intensity the shorter the focal distance of the mirror. Experience teaches, however, that only mirrors of considerable focal length are available for ophthalmoscopic examination, and that, if their focus be nearer than (/', they p.re wholly useless. If a cone of light be thrown upon the eye from a distance by a concave mirror of considerable sur- face, only those rays will penetrate the organ that strike the cornea within the limits of a circle the size of the pupil. If the mirror be brought nearer to the eye, there will be found a position at which all the rays reflected from it enter the pupil; but this will be at too great a distance to allow of ex- 3G9 amination of the erect image of the retina. If the observer brn)gthe mirror near enough for this pur- pose, by far the greatest part of the light will fall upon the iris, and the pupil will receive only those rays that are reflected from the immediate border of the central perforation, and that does not afford an illumination stronger than that of a plane mirror. Simple concave reflectors, therefore, do not give sufficient light for close observation, although their action is extraordinarily good in the examination of the inverted image. The light reflected from a plate of silvered glass is the incident light in undiminished quantity. Coccius first used such a mirror, and obtained with it about the same illumination as with Ilelmholtz's instrument. He, however, increased its action by employing a convex lens to cast an enlarged image of the flame upon the mirror. In respect of illumi- nation, the improvement thus gained was as if the plane mirror were exchanged for a concave of a focal length equal to that of the lens, with the additional advantage that, by changing the lens, this focal length could be varied to meet the re- quirements of any particular case. For the pur- poses of examination, this arrangement possessed a still greater advantage over the concave mirror, since the eye of the observer is, with the former, brought actually within the cone of reflected light, instead of being plated behind its base, as with the latter. It is obvious that with the plane muTor and lens, the virtual base of the light cone will be as much behind the mirror as the actual source of light is in front of it, after allowing for the virtual approximation of the flame to the mirror that is affected by the lens. But, in such a com- bination, the focal length, and the size of the image of the Hame, increase and diminish in the saine ratio, and in such a degree that in concentrating the light upon a portion of the mirror not much larger than the pupillary diameter (in which case alone no light is wasted) the marginal rays un- dergo a considerable spherical aberration, which renders them useless for the purpose of illumina- tion. _ In Zehender's convex mirror, however, this spherical aberration of the marginal rays is much diminished, and interferes much less with their illuminating power ; since both axial and marginal rays, when reflected from a convex mirror,.have a considerably greater focal distance than when re- flected from one that is either plane or concave. It follows from these considerations that it is best to use a concave mirror for the inverted image and, for the erect image, the mirror of Zehender or Coccius. The merits of Hasner's silvered lenses have been already pointed out and explained. The observer who requires a fixed instrilment must ahyays be of the minority, and its use will bo almost limited to surgeons in consultingophthalmic practice, to those who have to instruct students, and to those who have opportunities and leisure to make careful drawings of the appearances they observe. For all these purposes, the large ophtlialmo.«cope of Liebreich answers admirably ; but I should think the modification of it contrived by Follin would be in many respects nmre convenient, 'i'lie mobility of the object lens itself, as well as the power t.i draw the patient gently towards it, or to make him recede from it, without altering the field of vision and without moving the eye of the observer, would often be highly valuable. Such instruments should he obtained only from English makers. The