INFLAMMATION, the peripheml arteries." ..." That when the sympathetic ganglia are in a state of maximum anaemia the nervous effluence from them to the muscular coats of the arteries becomes so extremely feeble that a condition resembling paralysis is induced ; the muscular coats of the arteries become consequently extremely relaxed, and as the blood flows in the direction of least resistance, the parts supplied by the arteries in question become suf- fused with blood to an excessive degree." . " Jhat in the same manner as glands are supplied •with positive (spinal) as well as negative (sympa- thetic) motor, so there is reason to believe every tissue in the body is thus supplied, and is thus placed and sustained in a state of elective affinity for the elements of the blood requisite for its nourishment and functions." Now come the therapeutical postulates. Dr. Chapman believes that the sympathetic ganalia and the spinal cord can be rendered hyperaemic or anaemic artificially, by means of heat in the one case, and cold in the other, applied along the spine. " That by means of heat applied along the spine the general circu''.ation may be lessened, the activity of the glandular system may be increased, and in some cases cramps of both the voluntary and involuntary muscles may be induced. That by means of cold applied along the spine the general circulation may be increased, the activity of the glandular system lessened, and cramps be arrested or prevented." {Diarrhoea and Cholera, cjc. 2nd ed. Lond. 1866.) The application of these doctrines to practice is obvious. In aiifflmia or defective nourishment of any part apply ice to that part of the back corresponding to the ganglia supplying the arteries of the ill-nour- ished part; this will paralyse the sympathetic, and the blood-vessels will dilate. If the local supply of blood is to be lessened apply heat, this will produce hypera;mia of the ganglia and con- striction of the arteries. "Pleurisy, bronchitis, pulmonary congestion, pulmonary hcemorrhage, can be alike restrained or arrested by applications of cold or heat, according to the special needs of the case between the scapula;." Heat to the spine in these maladies (says Dr. Chapman) lessens hyperjemia by exciting the sympathetic, and pro- motes raucous secretion by exciting the positive motor, or, as Professor Laycock calls them, trophic nerves. " In treating pulmonary catarrh and bron- chitis," says Dr. Chapman, " I apply heat along the dorsal region, in order by inducing a preternatural afflux of blood in the thoracic ganglia, to cause the arteries supplying the bronchial mucous membrane to contract. Now, if at this stage of congestion of this membrane, when it is dry, heat be applied to the dorsal region, not only will the congestion be lessened, but a secretion of mucus rapidly ensues, to the great relief of the patient." This passage is fairly open to the criticism that It instead of heat to the spine a warm poultice had heen applied to the front of the chest and abdomen the same happy result would have ensued. But in truth we are not so rich in remedies that we can afford to laugh at new ones because a flaw may be picked in the theory which they rest upon. Time and experience will show where the truth lies. In fact, the work of the nervous system in the control of nutrition and vascular siipply has been so short a time made the suliject >of systematic study that we must be content to wait for the fruit of it. Meanwhile, wc must 177] welcome the pioneers who are opening for us glimpses at what may be the therapeutics of the future. Laycock's doctrines are largely studied on the Continent. They harmonise with the views of Macartney and R. Ferguson, though they go further. I have satisfied myself of Dr. Chap- man's fact that ice to the spine makes the feet warm ; but disease is so complex that we cannot believe in any one remedy for all things, though each remedy has its special use. General Conclusions. 1. Inflammation cannot be defined as to its essence, so that the best plan is to define it by its accidents, as "a diseased process attended with hypersemia and exudation," as we have said above ; or with pain, heat, redness, and swel- ling. 2. There are certain natural processes which resemble it, in some respects, as erection, ovulation, menstruation, lactation, salivation, and the action of the intestinal mucous membrane during digestion. 3. There are certain morbid processes into wliich inflammation passes by insensible gradations ; to wit, neuralgia, hypertrophy, tumours benign and malignant, mucous flux, and hyperemia, 4. But as neuralgia, hyp'ertrophy, tumours, fluxes and hyperaeraia may (like the best e.xam- ples of repair) occur without inflammatory symp- toms, so it is clear that the term "inflammatory " applies to the manner in which these changes take place ; that is, if they take place in a rapid, vio- lent, and painful manner. (VV". Moxon, Analytical Pathology, Med. Times and Gaz. 18/0, vol. ii. p. 441.) The diagnosis of inflammation is chiefly founded on h3'perKmia, heat, exudation, and pro- gressive change. 5. The superaddition of inflammatory characters to morbid processes brings into play a new order of phenomena, requiring special treatment. 6. The essential seats of inflammation are tissues in their minute structure. The vessels, nerves, and lymphatics are instruments, but not esse'ntijrf agents. Yet some inflammations are diseases in a part rather than o/it ; beginning with capillary embolism ornfflux of morbid blood element3(Beale) or with the intrusion of morbid leucocytes. ' 7. Theories of inflammation must be 'compre- hensive not exclusive. All theories heretofore in vogue have some partial truth, but no one can be accepted as a view of the whole truth. The doctrine of the state of the blood, of humours, of the influence of the nervous system, of the ac'tion of vessels, the action of " cells," of exudations, of em- bolism and of leucocytes are not incompatible but may be held as so many parts of a harmonious system. 8. Inflammation of any part mnst be considered an expression of irritation or wronged vitality ; of defective resistance to causes disturbing the pro- cesses of nutrition ; the liability increasing in prol portion to the weakness and seiisibilitv. Injury to living tissue " renders it incapable," as Good- fellow has well expressed it, " of exercising its proper affinities of growing in harmony with the organism of which it forms a part. Tlie s-iine rule holds good, as Virchow had shown, with regard to vcgetals as to animals. 9. It is the characteristic of high health and vigorous life that injuries are healed without nerve- irritation and inilanunation, and that morbid statcg