444 PERIOSTITIS. a secondary complaint, produced by various de- ranged states of the general liealth, as by rheu- matism, syphilis, and the abuse of mercury, [This terra was lirst used by Sir Philip Cramp- ton to express an inflammation of the periosteum {Duhlin Hospital Reports, vol. i. 1817); but as the symptoms occasioned by inflammation in any other part of a bone are almost precisely the same as when its investing membrane is inflamed, this word has often been employed to denote an inflam- mation of the osseous tissue generally. Of late years, however, as the pathology of the disease has become better understood, a different nomenclature has been introduced, with a view to define the various seats of this morbid process, and the term periostitis is now intended to imply an inflamma- tion which is chiefly confined to the periosteum. When the fibrous matrix of the bone-tissue itself is inflamed, it is termed an ostitis; and if the en- diosteum or medullary structure be the principal situation of the disease, it is called an osteomyelitis, or endostitis. Although inflammation may com- mence in any one of the fibrous constituents of bone, it is seldom limited to that in which it originated, but it spreads by continuitj-, and im- plicates the other portions of these structures ; so that destruction of the bone-tissue to a greater or less extent commonly ensues, and it is often most difiicult to define accurately which particular part is affected. Periostitis may be acute or chronic. The acute form commonly occurs in persons who are in good health, as the result of cold, or of some mechanical injury. It frequently involves a considerable sur- face of the membrane, and runs somewhat rapidly through its stages, giving rise to severe febrile dis- turbance, and generally terminates in the death of a large piece of bone. This variety of the disease was called by Sir Philip Crampton the idiopathic, whilst the chronic affection, which is usually found in persons who are much debilitated, or are' the subjects of a constitutional taint, he named the symptomatic. This latter may com- mence without any palpable cause, but is gene- rally excited by some external agency, and is limited to the part thus affected; it is generally slow in its progress, and by its long continuance may give rise to hectic. Dr. Graves (in his Clinical Lectures) prefers to call the former of these affec- tions the diffused, and the latter the circumscribed form. (Graves's Clinical Lectures.) The same causes may produce inflammation in any portion of the organic constituents of bone; but, as before stated, p)eriostitis is commonly the result of external influ- ences—as cold, damp, a blow, a burn—or it may be caused by those diseases which more especially attack the fibrous tissues of the body, as rheumatism or syphilis. Ostitis is not unfrequently the consequence of an injury, but this form of the disease is mostly depen- dent on constitutional causes—as scrofula, sj^philis, the effects of mercury, fevers, &c.—or the inflam matory action may spread from the periosteum to the bone-tissue. When the medullary structure be- comes primarily inflamed {osteomyelitis ox endostitis), it is usually caused by a direct injury to the medulla or its membrane, such as is occasioned by fractures, gunshot wounds, severe concussions, amputations or other operations on bone; or it may be seconda- rily involved by extension of inflammation from the periosteum or bone itself. When the periosteum is inflamed, the local changes consist in a thickening and increased vascularity of the membrane, followed by an exu- dation of lymph beneath it—between it and the surface of the bone; effusion also takes place into the neighbouring tissues. If the inflammation be severe, pus will be formed beneath the periosteum, separating it from the bone, and suppuration may also occur in the surrounding parts. The pent-up matter will gradually find its way through the periosteum to the surface, and through the opening thus formed exposed bone can be felt. The super- ficial layers of the bone, having been deprived of their vascular supply, in consequence of this sub- periosteal effusion, usually exfoliate, and a shell of bone, often of considerable thickness and extent, may thus be removed. (Vide Necrosi.s.) Some- times, when the exudation has taken place slowly, is limited in amount, and the inflammation not severe, it may become organised, and finally ossi- fied, thus forming irregular projections upon the surface of a bone. This condition is, however, principally met with in those bones which are superficial and exposed to atmospheric influences, and it is generally combined with a syphilitic taint. These bony excrescences are called nodes. (See Exostosis.) The symptoms of inflammation of the periosteum are pain along the course of a bone, of an aching throbbing character, which is often very severe, and especially so at night; it is much increased by pressure, and the slightest touch is sometimes in- tolerable. Swelling soon sets in, with a tense glistening condition of the skin, followed by oedema; in the acute variety, the swelling becomes diffused, and the integuments discoloured; fluctua- tion can be detected, and rigors often indicate the formation of pus, which, unless early evacuated, will strip up the periosteum from the bone to a considerable extent, and burrow amongst the adjacent tissues; there is at the same time much general inflammatory fever. In the chronic form the pain is much less severe, and may even be intermittent; the cedema is less, the swelling more circumscribed, and the integuments over it become congested. The effusion is either gradually con- verted into fibrinous material, causing a brawny indurated condition of the parts, or else suppura- tion slowly takes place. There is a form of acute periostitis which attacks the ungual phalanges of the fingers termed paronychia; it generally occurs in persons who ai-e in a cachectic condition, is ac- companied by intense pain, and gives rise to very severe local and constitutional disturbance, often terminating in rapid necrosis of the whole phalanx. (See Whitlow.) In ostitis, or inflammation of the bone-tissue itself, it is the fibrous or organic element which is inflamed. The blood-vessels which enter the sub- stance of the bone become enlarged, and exudation takes place from them into the Haversian canals and into the cancellous texture. If the inflamma- tion continue, and be of the acute form, the in- creasing effusion by its pressure causes dilatation of the Haversian canals, and ultimately absorption of their walls, so that several of them may t.e blended together: the bone thus acquires " ^P^'^S.;- porous appearance, and its textui^ IX-lti^sei from loss of the inorganic constituent, ' '^^^^^^ free by the destruction of its fibrous frames oik. The exudation may degenerate, and a large portion