•238 LITHOTOMY- above the anus. Then the trocar is to be car- on the left side of the perineum, near the great moaning, as lie saj's, " I believe it will be found in adults that death follows oftener from exhaus- tion, after a tedious operation, or from despon- dency, &c., than from acute disease," {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. 412), a sentiment which, I am sure, this gentleman would not have entertained had he been present with me at the opening of the many unfortunate cases which used formerly to occur in the practice with badly made gorgets in St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Together with the above measures, the warm bath, a blister on the lower part of the abdomen, and emollient clysters, are highly proper. I have seen several old sub- jects die of the irritation of a diseased thickened bladder continuing after the stone had been ex- tracted. They had not the acute symptoms, the inflammatory fever, the general tenderness and tension of the abdomen, as in cases of peritonitis, but they referred their uneasiness to the lower part of the pelvis ; and instead of dying in the course of two or three days, as those usually do who perish of peritoneal inflammation, the)', for the most part, lingered two or three weeks. In these cases opiate clysters and blistering the hypogastric region are the best measures. In some°instances of this kind abscesses form about the neck of the bladder. I shall conclude this article with the following quotation : " Some individuals (as Sir B. Brodie observes) are good subjects for the operation, and recover, perhaps, without a bad symptom, although the operation may have been very indifferently performed. Others may be truly said to be bad subjects, and die even though the operation be performed in the most perfect manner. What is it that constitutes the essential difference between these two classes of cases ? It is, according to my experience, the presence or absence of organic disease," especially of the kidneys or bladder. {Op. cii. p. 301.) The enlargement of the pros- tate gland in old men I believe, with Sir B. Brodie, does not increase the danger, though it may the difficulty of the operation. I infer this from a case which occurred in University College Hospital, and in which the patient recovered without any bad symptoms, though the opera- tion was excessively long, and a portion of the enlarged gland, which had been sliced off, fell down upon the floor. With respect to fistula in perlneo, impotency, and incontinence of urine, as consequences of lithotomy, I have seen two or three examples of the first. Mr. Key has not witnessed fistula as a consequence of the operation for vesical calculus. " The operation of extracting prostatic calculi" (he observes) " when they are large, and the gland diseased, is sometimes followed by difficulty in healing the external incision, and the formation of a fistula, through which some drops of urine escape. But in litliotomy the incision, being made through healthy structures, heals quickly by a healthy process of granulation, and^ fistula is, therefore, a very uncommon occurrence. Mr. Key has known of one instance in which impo- tency was ascribed to the operation. But, ac- cording to his experience, incontinence of urine rarely'occurs in the adult. In the young subject partial incontinence will sometimes occur, il tiie patient is allowed to leave his bed too soon after the operation, before the neck of the bladder is firmly healed, and the sphincter has recovered its tone. Instances, therefore, are met with of young boys who, if they retain tlieir water in- conveniently long, find it dribble away as they move about. In bed the urine is perfectly re- tained. When they arrive at the age of puberty the power of retaining it becomes increased. (See Aston Key, in Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. •25.) Op I50ME Particular Methods and Instruments. M. Foubert, an eminent surgeon at Paris, de- vised and practised a plan of his own, which, however, has not been considered by others worthy of being imitated. The patient having retained his urine, so as to distend his bladder, an assistant with a convenient bolster presses the abdomen a little below the navel in such a manner that by pushing the bladder forwards he may make that part of it protuberant which lies between the neck and the ureter. Tlie operator at the same time introduces the forefinger of his left hand up the rectum, and, drawing it down towards the right buttock, pushes in a trocar tuberosity of the ischium, and about an inch ried on parallel to the rectum exactly between the erector penis and accelerator^urinte muscle, so as to enter the bladder in one side of its neck ; as soon as the bladder is entered, the operator withdraws his- forefinger from the anus. In the upper part of the canula of the trocar there is a groove, the use of which is to allow some urine to escape immediately the instrument enters the bladder, so that the trocar may not be pushed in any further ; but its principal use la for guiding the incision. As soon as the urine began to flow, Foubert, retracting the trocar a little, without drawing it quite out of the ca- nula, introduced the point of a slender knife into the groove in the canula, and by the guidance of this groove he ran it onwards into the bladder, and was aware of the knife having actually en- tered this viscus by the urine flowing still more freely. Then, raising the knife from the groove, he made his incision, about an inch and a half in length, through the neck of the bladder, by moving the knife from that point at which it had entered upwards towards the pubes. And, filially, by moving the handle more largely than the point of the knife, he opened the outer part of the wound to whatever extent the size of the stone seemed to require, and then, withdrawing the knife, he introduced a blunt gorget to guide the forceps. „, . • An ellbrt was made by Thomas to improve this method, but he failed, and it was never adopted by others. The inability of many blad- ders to bear distention is an insuperable objec- tion to it, for without this the trocar is liable to pass between the bladder and rectum, and even through the bladder into the pelvis. (Mhnoires de VAcad. dc. Chir., vo . i. p. bbA ; Le Bran's raralleh ; Sharj^'s Critical Ifigmry; J. JJctPs rrinciplcs, \o\. a.) ,i,„,i„r In the year 1748 Frere C^mie's «fl°fj>l performing the lateral operation began to at met considerable notice. It was performed with a particular instrument, called the lithotome cache by means of which the prostate gland and orifice I