615 appearance presented will approach more or less towards eitlier the so-called double or the single liirm of curvature, and this will depend very much upon the equal or unequal length of the curves formed. More attention than is generally given should be directed to the iuequality in the length of the curves, because, in proportion as one curve increases and predominates, so the external de- formity increases, and with it frequently the more severe symptoms, affecting the general health. Three or f.uir short curves, of about equal lengths, and, therefore, mechanically counterbalancing each other, may e.xist in a spinal column wilhout pro- ducing more than very slight external deformity; but if twocu vatures of unequal lengths should exist, the longer curve is sure to increase with greater rapidity than the shorter, and must necessarily give rise to external deformity, as well as cause displacement of internal organs. Tiie external characters will vary, then, according to the form and situation of the curvature. E.XTERNAL CHARACTERS IN SINGLE LATERAL CURVATURE. When a single curve (the term being employed with the explanation above given) exists 171 ike lumbar region, and also involves, as it generally does, the lower dorsal vertebrae, a prominence of the hip, corresponding to the concavity of the curve, is the most conspicuous exteriud indication, and is itself diagnostic of this form of spinal deviation. Ill these cases, the crest of (he ilium becomes pro- minent simply on account of the abdominal walls in the lumbar region sinking in as a result of the curvature of the spine in this region, the depression or receding of the abdominal walls corresponding to the concavity of tlie curve; whilst, on the oppo- site side to the depression, and corresponding to the convexity of the curve, an increased promi- nence of the spinal muscles, especially the sacro-lum- balis and longissimus dorsi, takes place. The depression on one side and prominence on the other, essentially depend upon rotation of the lum- bar vertebrsB, the effect of which is to alter the relations of the transverse processes, causing these processes to project posteriorly on one side, i. e. on the convexity of the curve—and in this movement the spinal muscles are thiust outwards—and to recede inwardly on the opposite side, i. e. on the concavity of the curve, in consequence of which a jrominence of the hip, or, more correctly speaking, of the crest of the ilium, is produced. The diagnostic value of the prominence of the hip in these cases was especially insisted upon by the late Mr. Lons- dale.* A lateral deviation of the apices of the spinous processes also generally exists in this form of curva- ture, but frequently only to a slight extent, and seldom in any very marked degree; the prominence of the hip, however, first and principally attracts attention. A d sposition to sit awkwardl.y, with an occasional fulling of one shoulder, may have been noticer), but this is by no means constant. When a single curve exists in the dorsal region it generally involves a considerable length of the spinal co'unm. The curvature is most conspicuous about the central, or the central and lower portions of the dorsal region; but in a severe case, the whole • On Lateral Curvature of the lupine. By E. F. L'uisilule. aecouil edit., page 4ti. Louilua i CUurchi I, 1(^52. SPINE, CURVATURES OF. of the dorsal, and two or three of tlie lumbar ver- tebra;, are involved in one large curvature. 'J'he synnnetrical form of the body is more disturbed in tills than in any other so-called variety of lateral curvature, in consequence of the length of the curve, and its relation with the thoracic parieties. The level of the shoulders is conspicuously altered, even when the curvature is slight, and as it ad- vances, one shoulder becomes permuntnlly elevated aiid the other depressed. When attention is first directed to the inequality in the level of the shoul- ders, it is thought to be only a habit of the girl to raise one shoulder in consequence of the make of lier dress, i. e. from the shoulder-strap slipping off, etc.; but, in such cases, the so-called habit will generally be found to be produced by a slight spinal curvature in the dorsal region. A prominence of the scapula, corresponding to the convexity of the curve, always exists, and in many cases this is the indication first observed. The scapulce will also be found unequally distant from the spinous processes, that on the convexity being more distant than the other, and also raised above the level of the opposite bone. A posterior projection of the angles of tlie ribs, on the side corresponding to the prominent scapula, and a dejiression of the angles of the ribs on the opposite side—depending upon rotation of the ver- tebrae—also constantly exist, and as the curvature increases becomes one of the most conspicuous ex- ternal characters. ribs also become more oblique in their direc- tion, and dejjressed, laterally as well as posteriorly, in the concavity of the curve, so that the chest sinks in, and becomes obviously deformed; on the convexity of the curve the ribs are more horizon- tal in their direction, and more widely separated from each other, than in their natural condition. The apices of the spinous processes present a more marked lateral deviation in this than in any other form of curvature, though, even in severe cases, they afford but a very imperfect indication of the extent of the internal curvature as affecting the bodies of the vertebrae. In slight cases the lateral deviation of the spinous processes ma}' be scarcely perceptible, though the other external characters are sufficiently well marked. When a single curve exists in the upper and middle portion of the dorsal region, it gives to the individual a high-shouldered and short-necked ap- pearance, and produces a disposition to stoop. The scapula on the side of the convexity is tilted for- wards, and the portion of the trapezius muscle just above the scapula is often very prominent, so much so as to be occasionally mistaken for fatty or cystic tumor, or chronic abscess. AII such muscular swel- lings convey to the touch a doubtful sense of fluc- tuation, which it is as well to be awijre of. The shotdders are unequal in height, one raised and the other depressed, and the chest sinks in at the up- per part, n little below the axilla, on the side of the concavity. EXTERNAL CHARACTERS IN DOUBLE LATERAL CURVATURE. When a double curvature of the spine exists, one curve usually occupies the dorsal region, and presents its convexity to the right side, and the other the lumbar region, with its convexity to the Idft si:'e. The deviation to the right side in the middle dorsiU regu)u, as con.pared w-th the devia-