INTESTINAL CONCRETIONS. 86 ammonia: some carbon and eartli remaining be- hind. An intestinal concretion, on the other hand, decrepitates, or turns black, but generally does not burn. One specimen, examined by Dr. Ure, when heated to the temperature of 400 Fahr., fused into a black mass, and exhaled a copious white smoke, in the odour of which was recognised that of ambergris, mixed with the smell of burning fat. Exposed in a platinum capsule to a dull red heat, it burned with much flame and smoke, leaving no appreciable residuum. (See J/re's Diet, of Che- mistry, art. Intestinal Concretions.') The eighth criterion depends upon the solubi- lity of calculi in anj' oily menstruum. Haller dis- solved biliary calculi in oil of turpentine ; Dietrick found them soluble in oil of sweet almonds ; and Gren in oils in general. But intestinal calculi are not so readily dissolved by any of these menstrua. The ninth criterion is founded upon the con- sideration that, while hepatic concretions are almost always more or less dissolved by alcohol, those of the gastric kind resist this menstruum. Though the above criteria are interesting, as tending to establish distinctions betwixt the dif- ferent species of alvine concretions, it merits at- tention that not one of them, taken separately, is at all certain and pathognomonic. It may hap- pen that some peculiarity in the biliary secretion, and an irregularity in the crystallisation and ac- cumulation of the matter may cause salts and earths to predominate in hepatic concretions, in which circumstance their usually oily quality will be defective. On the other hand, in the formation of an intestinal concretion, oily adipose matter may accidentally adhere to it, so as to disguise its wonted character. If uniformity of characters and physical properties depend upon uniformity of elementary constituent principles, it can hardly happen even in the natural healthy state of the secretions, because age, sex, and other particular circumstances of the individual, will always make a difference in the proportions of those principles. How then can identity of results be expected in a diseased state of the process of secretion ? Such reflections may explain how Morgagni, amongst others, met with many biliaiy calculi which were not inflammable ; with others, which did not give a yellow tinge to water ; and with some which floated, or sunk in water, according as they had been recently or long discharged; while Gren found some of these calculi insoluble in alcohol, &c. {Ruhini, p. 24, 25.) Moreali put a piece of the outer part of an alvine concretion into nitrous acid, when a con- siderable effervescence took place, and the sub- stance afterwards completely dissolved. Now, as this calculus had a nucleus, it must have been of the hepatico-gastric kind, and the experiment was therefore made only with the intestinal part of it. Should the experiment be often repeated with the same result, says Rubini, it would fur- nish another criterion for distinguishing the two species of calculi: those being intestinal, which effervesce; and others being hepatic, which do not effervesce, but yield globules of wax-like oily matter. (P. 28.) With respect to the treatment of cases of biliary calculi, the subject not being generally one for which any surgical proceeding is advisable, I may be brief. The medicine, which was alleged by Durande, a physician at Dijon, to be tlie best solvent for them, consists of three parts of sulphuric a3ther, and two parts of oil of turpentine. It is to be given in the dose of 9ij every morning; purgatives being previously exhibited for a few days. The efficacy of this medicine is also cor- roborated by Soemmering and Richter. To these statements, however, some doubts must be at- tached, because, what symptoms and circumstances will ever unequivocally prove, that there ■\vere biliary calculi in the bowels; and that they have been dissolved by this medicine ? And how can the product of such solution be got at and ex- amined ? But, admitting the authenticity of the cases, doubts must exist of the solvent action of tiie remedj--, since, at a temperature below that of the human body, the aether separates from the turpentine and is volatilised. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. t. iii. p. 4fa'4, 465.) A calculus in the gall-bladder, or one of the biliary ducts, sometimes produces so much irri- tation, that inflammation and suppuration take place; and, if the abscess point outwardly, the stone may escape externally, and a termination be put to the patient's sufferings. Heberden re- cords a case of this description; and another is given by Blagden. (See Med. Trans, of the Col- lege of Physicians, vol. v. and //. L. Thomas in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. p. 106; Acrel, Diss, de Cholelithis, Upsal, 1788, p. 204; Act. Nattir. Cur. vol. vi. obs. 69 ; Bartholinus, Act. liafn. iv. obs. 46 ; Block, Med. Bcmerk. p. 27; Gooch's Works, vol. ii. 157—161; Johnston in Fhil. Tiwjs. vol. 1. p. 2. 548; Petit, Mem. de I'Acad. de Chir. i. p. 182—185 ; Sandifort, Tab. Anat. Fasc. 3; Haller, Collect. Diss. Pract. iii. No. 107.) J. L. Petit first suggested the bold practice of making, under certain circumstances, an mcision into the gall-bladder, in order to extract biliary calculi. This proceeding, however, is liable to serious objections, arising not only from the usual difficulty of knowing positively whether there is a calculus in the gall-bladder, but also from the difficulty of ascertaining whether this viscus is ad- herent to the peritoneum, without which state of things the operation would cause an extravasation of bile into the peritoneal cavity, enteritis, and death. Petit himself, indeed, mentions three cases, in which distension of the gall-bladder was mis- taken for an abscess, and punctured. In two of these examples the consequences were fatal, there having been no adhesion between that organ and the peritoneum to prevent the bile Jrom getting amongst the bowels ; the other patient was saved by this fortunate circumstance. (See Traiti des Mai. Chir. t. i. 262, 4-c.) However, if a case were to present itself, in which an abscess had formed, and broken, leaving an aperture, in which the calculus could be plainly felt, the surgeon would be justified in attempting to make a suffi- cient opening for its extraction. The symptoms, induced by the lodgment of large concretions in the bowels, are of a formida- ble description : severe pains in the stomach and bowels, diarrhoea, violent vomitings of blood and mucus, a discharge of thin foetid matter from the rectum, a difiiculty of voiding the excrement, an afllicting tenesmus, extreme emaciation, and de- bility. ' That the foregoing account is not exagge- rated may be seen by a perusal of the cases, and remarks published by Mr. C. White, and thejate Mr, Hey.