1 PNEUMOTHORAX. Ill the majority of cases, tlie air, although it has a free passage into the sac of the pleura, cannot return into the lung during expiration, owing to the valvular disposition of the fistula; and if this impediment did not exist, still the air could not return into the lung, because the aircells are full of air. The fistula is closed, exactly in the same' manner as the valve of the bellows prevents the air from going out by the aperture through which it entered. The consequence is, that the air exerts a pressure within the sac, and that such pressure continues to increase so long as the communica- tion remains open. The space, occupied by the air, is much greater than that occupied by pus, or other fluid : and it seems evident to Dr. Houghton, that the chief part of the pressure must be pro- duced by the air, and not by the other fluid. This species of pneumothorax is almost invari- ably preceded by the usual symptoms of phthisis, cough, hcemoptysis, emaciation, night sweats, &c. Then, at the moment when the air first insinuates itself into the sac of the pleura, the patient is some- times conscious of the occurrence, or has a sensa- tion of something having suddenly given way in the chest. Empyema, as Dr. Houghton observes, being constantly an accompaniment of this va- riety of pneumothorax, the symptoms of the latter are necessarily joined with those of the former, Hence, the insufficiency of the rational symptoms for the diagnosis. " We find the symptoms of empyema set down as dyspnoea and pain (cough and expectoration), decubitus on the side affected, dilatation of that side, displacement of the heart, depression of the diaphragm, and hectic fever." (See Empyema.) The same catalogue precisely makes up the rational symptoms in pneumothorax, The dyspnoea and pain which immediately fol- low the bursting of the tubercle, and the first en- trance of air into the sac of the pleura, are nearly simultaneous with the sensation above described; but they are still more constantly present, and therefore (as Dr. Houghton observes) of more value in the diagnosis. Yet, pneumothorax has been known to take place without either violent pain or sudden dyspnoea. (Toiunsend, in Trans, of Dublin College, vol. v.; and Houghton, in Dtihlin Journ. of Med. Science, No. 3.) The dyspnoea, which usually continues during the whole course of pneumothorax, is more urgent and distressing than that attending chronic empy ema. This is accounted for by the great elasticity and condensation of the air, so that even the greatest expansion of the thorax in inspiration can but very partially overcome its reaction, and there- fore dyspnoea, resulting from compression, is thus but trivially mitigated. (See Cyclop, of Pract Med., art. PneumotAorax.) Different writers give different accounts of the side on which a patient with pneumothorax pre- fers to lie. "In empyema (Dr. Duncan observes), the patients commonly lie on the affected side; and in pneumothorax, on the sound one." {Ed. Med. Journ. No. 28, p. 327.) In relation to this point, Dr. Houghton admits the fact, that, in em- pyema, the dyspnoea is caused by the pressure of fluid alone, and that it is chiefly for the purpose of relieving the mediastinum, and opposite lung, of its weight and pressure, that decubitus takes place on the affected side. (See Empyema.) But, he observes, in pneumothorax, the compression of the internal organs is as complete, if not more so, al- 461 though caused by air; and, if the weight of even an inconsiderable quantity of fluid should be added to them, already suffering under this great compression, the patient will instinctively obviate this by lying on the affected side. According to Dr. Houghton's experience, this position, cwlcris paribus, is always preferred. The side where pneumothorax exists, is but slightly or not at all elevated during inspiration; and, on being measured, generally is found to be larger than the opposite one. But in other disorders and in empyema, the intercostal spaces are widened and occasionally protrude beyond the level of the ribs. But, the oedema of the integu- ments of the side, sometimes noticed in empyema, is not observed in pneumothorax, although M. Louis and others have remarked an cadematous state of the corresponding arm. According to Dr. Houghton, less compression seems requisite to produce displacement of the heart, and depression of the diaphragm than dilata- tion of the side; for the latter has been absent where the heart has been thrust considerably out of its place, and a sensible fullness produced in the corresponding hypochondriura by the depression of the diaphragm. In addition to the foregoing rational symptoms of pneumothorax, is the febrile disturbance, which always speedily follows the escape of air by per- foration of the tubercular cavity, and is in fact the fever of pleuritis. If the immediate consequences of it are not fatal, this fever subsides into the hectic of phthisis, which existed previously to the bursting of the tubercle. The physical symptoms of pneumothorax are highly deserving of attention. Whenever air and fluid exist together in the sac of the pleura, if the trunk be shaken abruptly, the splash of the liquid against the walls of the thorax is often dis- tinctly heard by the patient, or by any one who places his ear on, or near, the chest. This sound can only be produced where air and fluid are both present: if either is absent, no splashing sound is heard. The action of suddenly shaking the trunk to acquire this information, is termed sucoiission. One of the positive signs of pneumothorax is a metallic tinkling, or ringing sound, discerned with the naked ear, and still better with the stethoscope. It is compared to the sound occasioned by the dropping of a pin into a large wine-glass, or touch- ing gently a sonorous porcelain vase with a quill. It is audible during coughing, speaking, and some- times during respiration. The general result of pneumothorax from per- foration of the lung by tubercle, is death. Laennec is well known to have believed in the possibility of the cicatrisation of tubercular cavities ; and hence it has been conceived, that, in this case, a recovery is not absolutely prohibited. The chances nf it, however, appear exceedingly slight. Even Laennec himself admits, that the effusion of air cannot exist for any length of time, without giving rise to very severe symptoms, and even death. M. Louis only speaks of the result, with the view of calculating the time which elapses between the pL'riod of perforation and death. {Rcclierches sur In Phlhisie, p. 487.) Dr. Stokes relates a case, which lasted five months, as the longest at that time on record. {Trans, of Khig\ and Queen's College, vol. v.; and HongMon, in Cyclop, of Pract. Med.)