GLAND. 484 ■ PROSTATE change will frequently act with prejudice to the constitution. If we persist, some febrile symptoms will probably soon show themselves, the patient will become low, and even finally sink, his end being accelerated if the injunction to empty the bladder two or three times daily be regarded as invariably binding. Sir B. Brod'ie was the first I believe to point out the consequence of such treatment in these cases {Led. on ike Urinary Organs. 4tli ed. Pp. 203-5) ; and observation has demonstrated to me the justice and the value of his remarks. The surgeon should commence by removing only a portion of the urine, not exceeding half the contents of the over-distended bladder, and in the course of two or three weeks, perhaps, by gradually withdrawing a somewhat larger pro- portion, and slowly accustoming the atonied coats of the viscus to their new condition, he may venture to empty it entirely. But in this proceed- ing he must exercise great caution, watching for symptoms, and doing all iie can to invigorate the patient, by improving his digestive organs, and by administering as much nutritious food as he can digest, with as much tonic and stimulant as he may i equire. There are many complications which are prone to appear in connection with these cases. Atony of the bladder from over-distension in such a case as that just described majr be first noticed. For this, cold affusion on the abdomen, cold injections into the bladder, after a time ; electricil}', with Strychnia, steel and ergot, internally, may prove useful. Chronic-cystitis is one of the most com- mon consequences of retained urine, of rude in- strumental treatment, of external cold, or of internal irritation, to which the patient with hy- pertrophied prostate is liable. External counter- irritation above the pubes, in the form of sina- pism or linseed meal poultices with mustard, and hot fomentations, is one of the best modes of treatment in cases which are somewhat acute in their character ; while absolute rest, hot hip baths, and demulcent drinks, are of essential service. As the case becomes more chronic, a blister above the pubes is sometimes useful, made withnitrate of silver in preference to cantharides. Injections of warm water and subsequently of mild astringents, such as acetate of lead, from half a grain to a grain in the ounce of water ; of nitric acid in the proportion of one or two drops of dilute acid to the ounce, in such circumstances, are often of admirable service in checking an abundant secretion of mucus and pus. Pain is allayed by opium in suppository and by the mouth, and in the former case is often well combined with extract of belladonna ; two grains of extract of opium, one of belladonna, and five or six of simple cerate being a formula from which I have often derived good results. The decoctions of senega, pareira, bucliu, and triticum repens, may be used in their turn, the first being most useful when muco-purulent discharge is free. In similar con- ditions, small doses of copaiba, cubebs, and of benzoic acid, are sometimes valuable. Alkaline salts, such as the sesquicarbonate of soda, and the citrate of potash, are useful in small doses, unless the urine is exceedingly ammoniacal. Lemon juice occasionally neutralises the alkalinity of the urine better liuui any ollior agent: the mineral acids do not correct this condition, but act as tonics and abtringents. Tonic treatment, in medicine and in diet, is generally strongly indicated ; stimulants of an alcoholic kind are advisable only when the powers of life are rather low. If there is some hcemorrhage, it must be treated by rest, ice in bladders locally, and as little instrumental inter- ference as possible. Opium is most valuable to allay the spasmodic straining which a bladder loaded with coagula is so liable to be affected with. Internal astringents should be administered also, and good support afforded in the way of nutriment, but no hot fluids should be permitted. Generally speaking, the clot will gradually dissolve in the urine, and come away safely if not interfered with; mechanical interference often provokes renewed bleeding. For the treatment of retention of urine see article on that subject. In respect of general management, the functions of the stomach and liver, and those of the skin, should be always maintained in good order, and a cheerful tone with respect to the future encouraged. Numerous researches have shown that life is barely shortened by this complaint when the patient is well taken care of. The special treatment directed against the enlargement itself oft'ers no great hope from its employment. Many remedies have been tried and found useless, but if any more than others offer a chance, they are iodine and bromine. These are useless in a case of simple fibrous tumor of the prostate, or in any case which is far ad- vanced. In commencing hypertrophy it may be right to make trial of them. Small doses of the iodide of potassium and of the bromide combined, may be t;dcen internally for a prolonged period of time, while suppositories may be used also, and hip-baths impregnated with the same salts, or in the form of the mineral waters of Kreuz- nach. Atrophy of the prostate is met with in different forms. It may occur in exhausting disease such as phthisis ; it may be caused by pressure from tumors, &c., the prostatic structure will disappear from the encroachment of malignant growth and tuberculous deposit, and it may be congenitally deficient, but there is also a senile atrophy which is peculiar to the organ. Among the examples of prostate from elderly persons, I coidd only regard eleven as the subjects of atrophy from all causes. There are no symptoms distinguishing atrophy, nor is there any treatment adapted to it. Maliijnant disease of the prostate is almost in- variably encephaloid, for not more than one in- stance of true schirrus is on record. It has at present been observed only in childhood, and at advancing age. In the former the encephaloid deposit is generally limited to the single organ, or to it and to the adjacent lymphatics, and it runs a very rapid course. In the adult cases, the development of disease is slower, and other viscera are usually affected besides the prostate. The conditions commonly found after death are as follows :—The prostatic mass is of irregular form, and the most projecting parts are often soft and sprouting. The colour varies ; the recent por- tions of the growth are of apale buff tint; others are yellowish, and some reddish up to deep blackish- red; generally a creamy juice e.vudos—from others sanious fluid, or fluid containing flaky masses of dead structure, and here and there are found small Collections of purulent matter.