TRANSFUSION, A Btate wliicli may be described as that of a feverish cold is its usual early manifestation. There is, however, early and marked prostration, and not unfreqiiently considerable gastro-enteric diaturbailce. The inflammation usually begins in the uvula, and a mere feeling of stiffness and dis- comfort may alone be complained of, though more frequently severe pain attracts the attention to the part. Dysphagia soon appears, and in from twelve to forty-eight hours the exudation, which is so characteristic of the disease, siiows itself at many centres on the tonsils and back of the throat and spreads therefrom far and wide. The false mem- brane which forms may be quite soft, like glue, and easily detached ; or, on the contrary, it may resemble wash-leather, and be tenacious and ad- herent. If detached, it is reproduced witli great speed. The surface beneath the membrane is olten ulcerated and gangrenous, and may bleed profusely and even fatal!}'. Respiration becomes embarrassed, as well as deglutition, and as the blood becomes contaminated and the inability to take food increases, the patient's strength is under- mined, and the greatest weakness is established. Death may occur in from twelve hours to fourteen days, and be due to suffocation (as is common in children), or prostration, or septic poisoning, or uremia. If recovery take place, the convalescence is protracted, and liable to serious intercurrent ailments. Albuminuria is common, and frequently very aggravated, and that early in the disease ; partial paralysis of a most distressing kind, affect- ing both sensation and motion, appears in about one-fourth of the cases, and various other maladies are liable to defer and render the recovery difficult and incomplete. The paralysis referred to com- monly appears in the muscles of the pharynx and tongue, as well as in those of the limbs. The ireaiment varies somewhat, according to whether the disease manifests itself mainly by general or local symptoms. Generous support and pure air are required in all cases. If the swallow- ing of food is impossible, nutrient enemata must be employed. Soup, milk, wine, or brand}', and everything likely to support the vital powers, must be administered. The age, habits, and powers of assimilation of the patient, together with the ne- cessities of the case, must regulate such adminis- trations. A purgative of calomel and jalap at the outset is useful in clearing the bowels, but after- wards enemata should be used. After the clear- ance of the intestinal canal, the tincture of the muriate of iron, in half-drachm doses every three hours, forms perhaps the best remedy; or chlorate and iodide of potash in free doses, or a combination of quinine and iron. If there is sleeplessness, morphia m?iy in the early stages of the disease be given, and chips of ice allowed to dissolve in the mouth will allay thirst and afford relief, limetics have been found useful in disengaging the exudation, which, if loose (not otherwise), should be mechanically removed. Poultices to the loins are good if the urine is scanty. The inhalation of warm, moist air is beneficial, and gargles of limewater or percliloride of iron, or permanganate of potash, help to correct the con- dition of the throat. If caustic is applied to the patches of disease, it should be done once and for nil, and not repeated. A strong solution of nitrate « silver (5j. to the ounce of water) brushed ircely over, or nitric acid half diluted with water, freely applied, answers best. Hydro- chloric acid, with honey, has been much recom- mended. It may be requisite to syringe the nostrils with a weak caustic or disinfectant solu- tion (Condy's fluid is best for this purpose), and fomentations and poultices to the neck give much relief. If the respiration is seriously compro- mised, the windpipe must be opened ; by so doiiio- death by asphyxia is prevented, and the effects of non-aerated blond avoided. If death threaten bj asthenia, or from the establishment of blood poison- ing, then tracheotomy is too late ; but if the strength is good, and the obstacle to the respira- tion be apparently the chief source of danoer, then tracheotomy is most hopeful. In more than half the cases the danger during the first week is from laryngeal obstruction, especially in the young, and against this, operative interference is most efficient. It has succeeded, even in the most desperate cases, in a considerable number of in- stances; and in France, where early operation is more practised than in Great Britain, tracheotomy has been crowned with much success. If it fail to cure, it certainly tends much to soothe the last hours of the patient. Its success will be in proportion to the source of danger being solely seated in the trauliea. The less the constitution is implicated the better, and in any given case our discrimination will be called for to determine the relative preponderance of the local and the consti- tutional elements in the affection. The chances of success are very considerable indeed when the windpipe is opened just when the respiration is becoming seriously impaired, but before evidence of true asphyxia has manifested itself. During the convalescence from diphtheria, country air, nourishing food, cod liver oil, wine and malt liquor, tonics (iron, quinine, strychnine), and galvanism shoidd be used to restore the func- tional eiierg es.] G. H. B. Madeo.1. [TRANSFUSION. This operation, which at one time excited the most extravagant expecta- tions, has hitherto held a fitful and insecure place in surgery. Often revived, and as often falling into desuetude, it has never failed to arrest the attention of some thoughtful and enterprising men. If success alone could command recognition, trans- fusion ought by this time to be an operation in frequent use. Many lives have undoubtedly been saved by it; and if there have been also many failures, it must be remembered that the trans- fusion iias almost always been perlbrmed in very desperate cases, and that it is not a sound objec- tion to an operation that it sometimes fails, since all operations are liable to fail. We ought to seek for the causes of failure, to see if they cannot bi" removed, and thus to diminish the proportion of failures. This is one of the instances in which a single success should encourage to persevere in the face of anj' number of failures. Of late years material accessions to our knowledge of the sub- ject have greatly increased the probabilitj' of rendering the operation more practicable and suc- cessful. There are two distinct proceedings to be con- sidered under " transfusion.'' This word properly means the translation of the blood of one animal into the circulation of another. But we may also inject into the circulation of an animal other sub- stances besides blood, such as saline or alcoholic fluids, or medicinal substances. This is called