?86 place where tlie cilia were most troublesome. The great benefit derived from the operation tlien led the same practitioner to suggest the removal of the whole of the inverted edge of the tarsus, towards the inner canthus, wliere some irritation was yet maintained. The plan, thougli followed by severe pain, appears to have succeeded. {Chir. Versucle, b. ii. p. 253.) . . Mr. Saunders entertained a favourable opinion TRICHIASIS. external angle, and a perpendicular incision made, from a quarter to half an inch in extent, or of sufiicient length to render the eyelid quite free. Another incision is then to be made, ina similar way, at the inner angle, without including the punctnm lachrymale. " The length to which the perpendicular incisions at both angles ought to extend must now be decided upon by the appear- ance of the part: they must be continued, ifneces- of Mr. Cranipton's operation for the cure of the Uary, by repeated touches with the scissors, until disease in its early stagey but he contended, that that part of the eyelid containing the tarsal carti- such a vicious bending of the tarsus inward v/as lage, is perfectly free, and is evidently not acted often the consequence of repeated oplithalmy, at tended with ulceration of the conjunctiva and inside of the eyelid, so that every endeavour to rectify the wrong position of the tarsus, and restore its original direction, would be fruitless. Plence, he believed that its excision was decidedly indicated-; an operation which is said to be followed by no pain or uneasiness, and which is sure in its eftect. No particular shortening of the eyelid ensues; the deformity is materially lessened; and, unless the cornea be already too opaque, perfect vision is re- established. Mj-. Saunders directs a piece of thin horn, or a plate of silver, having a curvature corre upon by the fibres of the orbicularis muscle." The part included in the incisions is now to be com- pletely everted, and retained by the forefinger of the operator's left hand against the patient's brow; when, if any lateral attachment be observed, con- fining the lid, it is to be divided. " On letting tlie eyelid fall on the eye, the edge of the tarsus and the hairs will frequently appear in the natural situation, in consequence of the relaxation of the aniiles which bound them down; but, if the tarsal cartilage has become altered in its curvature, this will be immediately perceived; it will turn inwards at its ciliary edge, and be completely bent at its sponding to that of the eyelid, to be introduced extremities, more especially at the inner one; imder this part, with its concavity towards the eyeball. On this instrument the eyelid is to be stretched. An incision is to be made through the integuments and orbicularis palpebrarum, dawn to the tarsus, immediately behind the roots of the cilia. The cut should extend from the punctum where it is more powerfully acted upon by the orbicularis muscle. On desiring the patient to raise the lid, he readily attempts it, but the action of the levator, in such cases of vicious curvature, causes the cartilage to resume its situation; and, on examination, the curve will be observed to be lachrymale to the external angle. The exterior so permanently vicious, for about an eighth of an surface of the tarsus is then to be dissected, until the orbital margin is exposed, when the conjunctiva is to be cut through directly by the side of the tarsus, which must now be disengaged at each ex- tremity. The punctum lachrymale must be left uninjured. The operation is described as being simple, and if any embarrassment arises, it is from the hajmorrliage of the ciliary artery, the blood sometimes obscuring the punctum lachrymale, just ■when the operator is about to divide the tarsus by the side of it. No dressings are .required, it being merely necessary to keep the «ye .covered for a few days. The skin will continue to be elevated, just as the perfect eyelid was; and, .though less com- pletel)^ yet enough to leave the pupil clear, when the eye is moderately directed upward. In all the cases in which Mr. Saunders operated, a fungus grew from the wound. He recommends the ex- crescence to be destroyed with caustic, or the knife. Respecting this operation, I shall merely ob serve that it is more severe than that advised by Scarpa, and even than the method of Schreger and must leave greater disfigurement. Unless, therefore, the latter methods prove ineifectual, I should consider the practice unjustifiable. Mr Guthrie has seen three persons on whom tins operation had been perfi)rmed, and on two of them by Mr. Saunders himself: in all, the deformity was considerable, and the relief only partial. {.Operative Surgery of ilia Eye, p. 25.) Nor_ is Schreger's method allowable, except in cases which resist the milder plan sanctioned by Beer and Scarpa. Mr. Guthrie recommends the following opera- tion, as adequate to the cure of the worst cases. A smiiU narrow knife, or one blade of a blunt- pointed scissors, is to be introduced close to the inch at each extremity, and especially at the inner, that it cannot be induced to resume its actual situation. When this is the case, the cartilage is to be divided exactly at the place where it is bent in its length, and in a direction at a right angle with the perpendicular incision : the portion thus slit is only connected with the common integu- ments of the eyelid; and although this incision scarcely exceeds one, and never two-eighths of an inch at both extremities, and in general is only necessary at the inner, it enables the surgeon to remove the altered curvature of the part." The next proceeding in Mr. Guthrie's operation con- sists in cutting away a fold of skin from the part of the eyelid between the incisions. Three or four ligatures are then to be introduced, and the divided parts, from which the fold lias been re- moved, are to be brought together by the ligatures, each of which is to be twisted and fastened to the forehead with several short strips of sticking-plas- ter. The fold of skin should be raised regularly with the fingers, and as near as possible to the margin of the eyelid. It may then be taken hold of with Beer's forceps, the grasping pieces of which are transverse, slightly curved, and shut with a spring. The skin, thus taken hold of, which need not be large, may now be cut away with a large pair of curved or straight scissors. The ligatures are first inserted at each angle, and when the vicious curvature is considerable, Mr. Guthrie not only passes them through the skin, but takes care to make the biiernal one include, at its lower part, the outer edge of the margin of the eyelid. Ine ligatures, thus placed, are to be equally drawn up on the forehead, until the eyelid is c-mplMy everted, when they are to be fastened in the m.;ui- ner above specified. In order to prevent union bv the first intention, and make the granulating