point of chronic abscess. Chronic iiiflaramntion often leiids to ulceration ; i.e. the piecemeal disin- tegration of the inlliimed and infiltrated tissue ; rarely to gangrene, or sloughing of conspicuous portions, unless some injury or other cause be snperadded. Chronic inflammation may be caused by some permanent local irritant, as inverted eye- lashes; by some degeneration of tissue, as varicose veins ; but more usually by some error in the composition of the blood, whether gouty, rheumatic, or the like. Sthenic inflammation is that met with in vigor- ous persons, from common causes. Aslhe?iia inflammation exists, either when a common cause operates upon a person in a state of great debilit}"-, especially if combined with impure blood and organic disease of kidney or liver, &c., or when some specific cause of itself of a poisonous lowering nature has produced the inflammation —erysipelas, for example. Secondary inflammation is that which may be supposed to arise from the influence of spoiled materials from an existing inflammation, which act as a blood-poison, and produce other inflamma- tions elsewhere. The secondary inflammation of the eyes and joints after gonorrhoea is an ex- ample. Catarrhal inflammation is a name often applied to inflammation of mucous membranes, with copious secretion of mucus or muco-purulent matter— very liable to spread from one end to the other of the affected membrane. The term catarrhal is also sometimes applied to inflammations of mucous membrane produced by cold or damp. Gouty Inflammation. Come we now to the con- sideration of certain definite varieties of inflamma- tion, excited by some definite causes ; the existence of which causes is assumed in most cases, from the constancy of the effects. And first of gouty inflam- mation, that common accompaniment of luxurious life. The persons suliject to gouty inflammation are supposed to be those who, themselves or in the persons of their progenitors, have indulged too copiously in animal food and imperfectly fer- mented liquors, as beer and port wine. Gout may be manifested in a form wiiich is called regular and t3-pical, or may be irregular. Robust persons who have generated gout by their own excesses usuallj- enjoy it in the regular, feeble persons and those who inherit it in the irregular. In the former class of cases, which I call high gout, the attack is often provoked by a bout of excess ; in the latter, which I call loiu gout, it is usually in- duced by depressing causes, especially anxiety of mind, overwork, and defective or unwholesome food. In both classes wc assume a bad quality of blood, containing some material which is either superfluous or unfit for healthy assimilation ; and which is capable of being broken down into poison- ous matters which excite general feverishiiess and local inflammation, till at last tliey are converted into urinary or other excrementitious matter, and got rid of by bowels, skin, and urine. For a de- scription of the true regular sthenic gouty attack, nothing can be more life-like than Sydenham ( Works, Sydenham Soc. ed. vol. ii.). Before the fit, some crudity and indigestion, but usually on the Very day before it llie appetite nnusuaUii yood ; patient goes to bed in good health and sle eps, is awaked by excruciating pain in the great toe, shivering and other feverish symptoms, the part VIATION. 46 affected hot, red, shining, and exquisitely tender; pain remitting at daybreak, and followed by sleep and perspiration ; a series of greater or lesser fits on successive nights, till at last the disease passes ofi' with intense itching and desquamation of cuticle; the urine often pale and copious before the fit, but usually soon becoming scanty and depositing lateritious sediment copiously. It is not, however, with the regular or high gout that the surgeon has to deal. His chief concern is with latent gout, which is extremely common amongst all classes in large towns, and which pro- duces a variety of symptoms often of the most per- plexing and deceptive character, inaomucli that in treating elderly men the surgeon is alwaj's bound to be on his guard against gout just as the physi- cian is against liysteria in treating young women. If we except tlie well known and regular attacks of gout on the foot, the organ most frequently dis- turbed is the heart, and there are few gouty patients who have not a tale to tell of some faint- nesses, palpitations, oppression, and disordered breathing. Gout may affect the seat of any injury, especially bruises, strains, and other injuries of ligament and bone. Gouty inflammation may follow injuries of the head : there are several forms of ophthalmia due to gout (see Iritis) : the outer ear is liable to deposition of chalkstone, and the internal structures of the ear to thickening and im- paired function from the same. But it is gouty affec- tions of the urinary organs which more particularly interest the surgeon : there is a gouty irritation of the kidneys, which produces all the symptoms of renal calculus : gouty inflammation of the bladder will produce some of the symptoms of stone : the urine may be loaded in the latter case v/ith alkaline mucus, whilst itself is intensely acid : crystals of phosphates will be found in the mucus and crystals of lithic acid in the urine. The urethra is liable to gouty inflammation which may produce a muco- purulent discharge, not easily to be distinguished from the results of contagion : the testicles to gouty inflammation and swelling ; spasm of the sphinc- ttr ani, piles, and many skin eruptions, particularly eczema, are due to the same ciiuse. How, then, is gouty inflammation to be distin- guished Often by the testimony of the patient to the previous occurrence either of regular gout, or of some of the irregular symptoms which we have just enumerated, and especially of functional distur- bance of the heart; by the suddenness with which the attack seems to come on ; by its occasional sudden subsidence, or metastasis to some other part; by its access being often determined bv a fit of excess, or by some depressing cause, such as fatigue; by its obstinacy until the proper remedies are adopted; by the premonitory sym- ptoms which are always to be discovered if inquired for, particularly by the history of the urine, which, as the attack is passing off, dc^posits copious sedi- ments of lithates. Lastly, by the llippocralic rule, "Curationes morbum ostendunt: " for gouty inflammations, if they resist the gentle punjatives the vapour baths and other sudorirtcs, and the alkalis which are the rational remedies, are often relieved magically by the empirical use of col- chicum. The most positive view of the nature of gout is that propounded by Dr. Oarrod (in his work On the Nature and Treaiuuni of G'out, Loudon '''nd ed., 1863). ' "