290 MERCURY. ministered it, and the inconsiderate boldness of empirics. Tlius the causes, from which both parties failed, were avoided ; the character of the medicine was revived in a more durable way, and from this period its reputation has always been maintained. The renowned Paracelsus first taught practi tioners that mercury might be given internally with safety, for, belbre he set the example, it had only been employed externally in different ways. GENERAL REMARKS ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF MERCURV, ITS OCCASIONAL CONSEQUENCES, ETC. With regard to the preparations of the medicine, and the modes of applying it, we are to consider two things—first, the preparation and mode at- tended with the least trouble or inconvenience to the patient; and secondly, the preparation, and mode of administering it, calculated most readily to convey the necessary quantity into the consti- tution. Mercury is carried into the cnnstilution either by being absorbed from the surface of the bodA', or that of the alimentary canal. It cannot, however, in all cases be taken into the constitution in both ways; for sometimes the absorbents ot the skin will not readily receive it, at least no material effect is produced, either on the disease or constitution, from this mode of application In this circumstance mercury must be given by the mouth, although the plan may be very improper in other respects, and often inconvenient. On the other hand, the internal absorbents sometimes will not take up the medicine, or, at least, no effect is produced on the disease, or the constitution. In such cases, different preparations of the me dicine should be tried, for sometimes one sue ceeds when another will not. In some rare instances mercury seems to have no effect, either applied outwardly or taken into the stomach. Again, many surfaces seem to absorb mercury better than others : such are probably all internal surfaces and sore?. Dressing small ulcers with red precipitate some, times causes a salivation. (See Hunter on the Venereal Disease, pp. 335, 336.) Besides the practicability of getting the me- dicine into the constitution in either way, it is proper to consider the easiest for the patient, each mode having its convenience and inconvenience, depending on the nature of the parts to which it is applied, or on certain sitnations ot lite at the time Hence it should be given in the way most suitable to such circumstances. In many the bowels can hardly bear mercury at all, and it should then be given in the mildest form possible, conjoined with such medicines as will lessen or correct its violent local eliects, al- though not its specific ones on the constitution. When mercury can be introduced into tbo consti- tution with propriety by the external method, Mr. Hunter deemed it preferable to the interna, plaii, because the skin is not nearly bo essential to lile as the stomach, and, therefore, is capable in itself ot bearing much more than the stomach The con- stitution seemed to him also to be thus less injured. Many courses of mercury (he thought) would kill the patient, if the medicine were only given inter- nalljs because it proves hurtful to the stomach and intestines, when given in any form or_ joined with the greatest correctors. {Hunter, ]}. 'd'io.) [Sir B. Brodie regarded inunction with mercurial ointment as the only certain way of effecting a cure in syphilis. {Lectures, Lancet, 1864.J] Whenever mercury is given in venereal cases, the first attention should be to the quantity, and its visible effects in a given time, which, when brought to a proper pitch are only to be kept up, and the decline of the disease to be watched ; tor by this we judge of the invisible or specific effects of the medicine, and know what variation in the quantity may be necessary. The visible effects of mercury affect either the whole constitution, or some parts capable of secretion. In the first, it produces uni- versal irritabilitv, making it more susceptible of all impressions." It quickens the pulse, increases its hardness, and occasions a kind of temporary fever. In some constitutions it operates like a poison, while in others it produces a kind of hectic fever—that is, a small quick pulse, loss ot appetite, restlessness, want of sleep, and a sallow complexion, with a number of consequent symp- toms ; but such effects commonly diminish on the patient becoming a little accustomed to the medicine. {Hunter, pp. 339, 340.) The quantity of mercury to be thrown into the constitution, for the cure of any venereal com- plaint, used to be proportioned to the violence of the disease. However, surgeons were guided by two circumstances, namely, the time in which any given quantity was to be thrown in, and the effects it had on some parts of the body, as the salivary glands, skin, or intestines. lilUO, oil..., , These circumstances being known, mercury be- comes a much more efficacious, manageable, and sate medicine than it was formerly thought to be ; but, unluckily, its visible effects upon the mouth and the intestines are sometimes much more violent than its general effect upon the constitution at large. These parts must therefore rot be stimu- lated so quickly, as to hinder the necessary quan- tity of mercury from being used. The constitution, or parts, are more susceptible of mercury at first, than afterwards. If the mouth is made sore, and allowed to recover, a much greater quantity may be thrown in, a second time, before the same soreness is produced. However, anomalous cases occur, in which, from unknown causes, mercury cannot at one time be made to produce any visible effects; but, afterwards, the mouth and intestines are all at once affected. I Hunter, p. 342.) , Mercury occasionally attacks the T^o'^-eH 'ind causes violent pttrging, and even discharge of blood. This effect is remedied by discontinuing the use of the medicine, and exhibiting opium. At other times it is suddenly determined to the mouth, and produces inflammation, ulceration and an exces- sive flow of .saliva. To obtain relief in this circum- stance, besides the discontinuance of the mercury, patient is to be freely e.xposed to dry cool 1 ir, with the occasional use of cathartics, .-..id the assiduous application of -'nngen gargle^ containing sulphate of copper, and the 'k^; J^"^ sole objection against this .,f/^^"^^ is the lizard to which the patient w, 1 be exposea of having the saliva suddenly /l'^'^'^^''? "^^^^J suffering possibly some other disease in conse- '^""Thaf tt hasty suppression of a ptyaf- may be followed by sJriou's inconveniences, been proved by Dr. Silvester {Med. Oh,, and / 9- vol. iii.), who published the cases of three persons,