VENEREAL DISEASE. 920 was inserted on the point of a probe to tlio deptli of a quarter of an inch or more in the urethra. ■ No symptoms of gonorrhoea ensued ; but, in the course of five or six days, a painful inflammatory chancre was perceived on ttie spot to which the matter was applied. To this succeeded a bubo, which ended in suppuration, nolwitlistanding the immediate application of mercurv : and the sore that was produced proved both painful and tedious. Ulcers were at last percei-ved in the throat, nor Avas a cure obtained, till a very large quantity of mercury had been given, and the patient kept in close confinement for thirteen weeks. {On Gonor- rJuea Virulenta and Lues Venerea, vol. i. edit. 2, p. 438, &c.) Mr. Evans, it appears, has also seve- ral times inoculated with the matter of gonorrhoea, but in every case it failed to produce any effect. (On Ulceration of the Genital Organs, p. 81, 8vo. Lond. 1819.) Some other facts on record have been thought to support Mr. Hunter's inference, if any con- clusion can be ventured upon without the aid of the most minute details. Such inference must in- deed be invalidated, if the statements of M. Ricord respecting the information which he de- rived from the use of a speculum uteri in his inves - tigation of the venereal disease prove to correspond with the observations thus made by other inquirers. M. Ricord's statements, in fact, interfere with the deduction that otherwise might be made from occurrences of the following kind. M. Vigaroux mentions an instance in which six young French- men had connection with the same woman, one after the other. The first and fourth in the order of connection had chancres and buboes ; the se- cond and third gonorrhcea ; the fifth chancre ; and the sixth bubo. {(Euvres de Chir. pratique, Montp. 1812, p. 8.) And Dr. Hennen, who refers to this case, mentions a similar one in which the first per- son escaped; the second had true chancres and elevated sores^ and the third gonorrhoea. The connection took place within an hour. '{Military Surgery, ed. 2, p. 5-26.) These facts would indeed be much more interesting, if the disease with which the women were affected had been ascertained, in M. Ricord's manner; and one could securely cal- culate upon the men not having exposed themselves, within a given time, to any other source of infec- tion. In short, without a perfect history and description of cases of this kind, from their begin- ning to their end, no light is thrown by them on the question about the venereal and gonorrhoeal poisons. Nor does Dr. Hennen quote them with this view ; but for the purpose of exemplifying the variety of effects produced on different individuals apparently by the same infection; though the same considera- tions which prevent any certain inference from such observations, in regard to the identity of the venereal and gonorrhoeal poisons, seem also to interfere with the other conclusion. In the experi- pients detailed both by Hunter and B. Bell, there is also one point assmned by both parties, though jt is Tar from being determined, viz. that the matter dischargei from the urethra is always of one kind in respect to its infectious principle, wliatever this may be; and that the secretion from every chancre contains one, and only one, species oT in- fectious matter. From the candid aird very prac- tical work of Mr. Evans, it would appear that some ulcerations on the penis, such as would usually be called chancres, though they have of late years been sometimes named elevated ulcers, arue I'rom an altered secretion, without any breach of sur- Jace, or discernihle disease, in the female organs. The same gentleman was also frequently present at the examinations of the public women in Valen- ciennes, and always surprised at the small portion of disease to be found amongst them ; " At one which I attended (says he) no less than 200 women of the lowest description, and of course the most frequented by soldiers, were examined, and tiot one case of disease was found among them: nevertheless the military hospitals had, and con- tinued to have, their usual number of venereal cases (ulcerations). " At an inspection I have since attended, where 100 women were examined, tJH/;/ two were found with ulcerations : I noticed several with increased secretions, and one with purulent discharge, but these were taken no notice of by the attending surgeons, aa they did not come sufficiently under the head of virulent gonorrhosa. " That the two loomen above-mentioned as hav- ing ulcers, infected tlie whole of the men diseased in garrison during the preceding fifteen days, no one can for a moment admit even as likely; but if it be allowed that an altered secretion be suffi- cient for the production of this disease (the ulcus elevatum), we shall at once have an explanation of how it happened that the military hospitals continued to have their usual number of venereal cases, &c." {Evans, On Ulcerations of the Genital Organs, p. 72, 73, &c.) From the investigations of the same author, the ulcus elevatum is the most frequent of all the sores met with on the genitals, and besides being excited by diseased secretions, and gonorrhceal matter, is capable of being trans- ferred by inoculation, and even of originating spon- taneously. (P. 67-81, &c.) Yet with regard to these accounts, M. Ricord might remark, that the speculum uteri not having been employed for ascertaining the state of the interior of the vagina, Mr. Evanses inferences are not to be de- pended upon. Mr. Travers considers it possible that, in some cases, women are merely passive in^truinents of infection, and that a sound female, after havmg had connection with a man that has disease about his genitals, may for a time retain within the pu- denda some of the venereal matter received fmrn him, and that such matter may come into contact with her next visitor, who may contract the dis- ease, though she herself may entirely escape. (See Travers, On the Falhology of the Venerad Disease.) The same idea is entertained by M. Ricord, who declares that he has known it veri- fied. He adds another case which lately came under his notice. " A young man had connection with a woman who had chancres ; on the same day, he cohabited with his usual mistress who contracted the disease, though he hnnself was not attacked by it. The young man, it is to be ob- served, had not washed himself after coition, a.^ his prepuce was very long." (See PL Rtcord, Afal. Ven. p. 98.) , . , Lagneau admits that gonorrh-cea may not al- ways proceed from the same poison as the venereal disease ; but he believes that, in the greater num- ber of instances, the virus is of the same qual.tj. He is led to this opinion by the co'.s.deration uf several women having been infected by the same man witli both complaints, and of the two dise.ises