NYCTALOPIA. destruction of vision, and also into tlio frontal sinuses, causing absorption of the outer table of the skull in this position. I have operated three separate times on this patient, at intervals of two or three years, removing the growth as far as pos- sible from the orbits, frontal sinuses and nostrils. But as the whole of the disease could iiot be reached, it has always returned, and the man still suffers from the malady, and will probably have to submit to another operation, ffe shows himself oc- casionally at St. Mary's Hospital, with the inten- tion when it becomes absolutely necessary to undergo further treatment by operation. The other case also occurred at St Mary's Hospital ; a most remarkable one from the size the growth ultimately attained. It filled both nostrils com- pletely, distended the antra of both superior maxil- lary bones, lifted the floors of the orbits, and so encroached on the buccal cavity as to endanger life, by the difficulty of deglutition and of respira- tion which it caused. A formidable operation was required to remove the diseased mass. Both superior maxillary bones, both palate bones, the vomer, turbinated bones, and a portion of the sphenoid and ethmoid were implicated in the dis- ease, and required to be extirpated with it. The man recovered slowly after an attack of erysipe- las, and is now living. A third case of fibrous tumor in the nostril extending up the lachiyraal canal, occurring in a lady 35 years of age, was placed under my care by Mr. "j. E. D. Rodgers. The nostril and lachrymal sac of the left side were distended by the disease. This, as well as the above case, was at first mistaken for ordinary polypus of the nostril. A London surgeon, how- ever, whom the lady had consulted, informed her that it was a more serious ailment, and declined to perform any operation, considering it, I presume, to be of a malignant character. The whole of it was removed under chloroform, without the aid of cutting instruments, by forceps and scoop, aided by the finger introduced into the posterior nares; the portion of the growth which distended the lachrymal sac was easily displaced by pressure, and nsade to pass into the nostril. There has been no return of the disease, now six years from the date of the operation. The interior of the nostrils is, of course, liable to all the diseases of bone, of cartilage, or of fibre- mucous membranes, whether of an innocent or malignant nature, whether arising from a specific constitational taint, or from ordinary local irrita- tions. These will be treated of under other heads. (See Syphilis, Lupus, Oz.ena, Canceh.) There are two other affections, however, that may require a short notice here. Every surgeon of ex- perience must have met with cases of perforation of the cartilaginous septum of the nostril giving rise to great anxiety to the patient,though causing but little local pain or inconvenience. Tiie descrip- tion of one such case will explain the features and peculiarities of the rest. A surgeon, 45 years of age, a married man with a healthy family, who never had syphilis, discovered by a sort of whistling noise on sneezing, or blowing his nose, a small opening in the septum of his nostril through ■which ho could pass a director. He consulted the late Mr. Pilcher and myself 15 years ago, and I have watched the case ever since. Throughout, there has been no increased vascularity or thicken- ing of the mucous membrane covering the septum. 363 No symptom of any constitutional affection has manifested itself; he has been throiiohout and is now, in good health. The edge of the opening has always presented an ulcerated surface, and not- withstanding that, the thin layer of the cartilage alone intervenes between the mucous membrane of opposite sides, and which in each nostril is entire and apparently healthy, up to the very margin of the opening, they do not coalesce so as to healover and cover the narrow ulcerated edge. The open- ing is now, after 15 years of continued slow ulce- ration, little larger than a sixpenny piece. The form of the nose is of late years very slightly altered, the bridge of the liose not being quite so well supported. Local applications and constitu- tional remedies of various kinds have been had recourse to, without avail, to arrest the ulceration. He has for years ceased to treat the affection, and' all tho inconvenience he suffers is an occasional stain of blood on his handkerchief on blowing his nose. I have seen three other similar cases, one in a married, and one in a single lady ; the third was in a gentleman who formerly had syphilis, but from the absence of any other symptoms of that disease, I believe the ulceration in the cartilagi- nous septum to be independent of it. The only other affection of the nostrils it appears to ine necessary to notice, is a state of chronic in- flammation of the Schneiderian membrane, accom- panied by a very foetid discharge continuing for years, tainting the breath and rendering life miserable, of which I have met with two or three instances. One of these, ayoung female, a maid ser- vant, was unable on account of this ofiensive com- plaint, to retain a situation. Her mother informed me that she had suffered for years as a child from the malady, that little notice had been taken of it by herself, till she became adult ; hut that now she felt It most acutely, had become sullen, avoided strangers, and had threatened to make away with herself. No foreign substance could be detected in the nostril, the mucous membrane was vascular and thickened, and secreted a thick muco-pus which was very apt to concrete in some part of the nostril. There was no ulceration or caries of bone present. The treatment adopted, from which she derived considerable benefit, although a complete cure was not eff'ected, was the local applications ot ointments, simple and medicated; the free injection of antiseptic lotions, such as weak solutions of chloride of lime, of Condy's fluid, of carbolic acid, of lime water, of Goulard lotion, and the internal administration of cod liver oil, of iodide of potas- sium, of bark, steel, and other tonics. The other cases were not so severe, and were still more amenable to treatment.] Celsm de Re Medico, lib. vii. cap. ix. MmKano Annales Mundi, 1442. / G. Ta„liacotii,,\ccw"or"m Chirurffia per Inc.sionem, Venetiis, fol. 1597. Nova Ed. cura ./ 'JYosc/wl, 8vo. fiff. Berlin, 1831. 3^ Findley and J. Criiso, Gentleman's Mar. 17y4 j c Carpue,&n account of two successful operations'fm- restoring a lost Nose, 8vo. Lend. 1816. C'. P GrJr^ de Khino.plastice,4to. Berlin, 1818. De/pec/,, in Clih' Clin de Montpellier, t. ii. 1828. Dhffenbach, CI r" Erfalirungen.&c. 8vo. Berlin, 1829-30. A. A. Vclvcau Mdd Operntoire, t. ii. 8vo. Paris, 1830. ./. LiJrmlr sur la Khinoplnstie, in Mem del'Acad. do Med t ii' 1832. R, Liston on Practical Surffery, 8vo. Lond' lot)/* * Nose, Polypi of. (See Polypus.) NYCTALOPIA, {hom vb^, night ; and U the eye ; or oirrw, to see.) Vism nociumus or day-blnidness, vulgarly called owl-sight, is' an