place ill a portion of the ilium, adhering to the cyst of the abscess ; and the contents of the towel, after having passed into the abscess, escaped through a fistulous opening near the spine of the ilium. Ulceration also of the external iliac artery followed, about an inch and a half above Poupart's ligament, and sudden death resulted from tlio blood escaping iu large quantity into the cavity of the abscess. The parts are preserved in the Mu- seum of Bichmond Hospital. (See APDowel in Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, vol. iv. p. 912.) In December 1837, I visited, with Mr, Heale, of Staines, a farmer's son, at Stauwell, whom I had seen with the same gentleman eight or ten months previously. It was a case, in which a soft and partly reducible tumour presented itself below Poupart's ligament, and was mistaken by another practitioner for a hernia. Having examined the swelling, I recommended it to be opened, as it ap- peared to me from the symptoms to contain matter, and to be an abscess connected with the loins. A puncture was made, and about a pint of matter discharged. A copious evacuation of pus con- tinued for a good while afterwards, and at length matter presented itself at another point, which was also opened. This was behind the quadratus lum- bonim of the side, not corresponding to that of the original swelling. Then ulcerated openings, five or six inches long, formed over each crista of the ilium, and from these now project two large oblong fungous masses of the same length, and three inches in height and breadth, which appear to extend to a considerable depth, as if proceeding from a cyst or diseased surface within the pelvis. The skin around them is also extensively undermined. The fungous growths are not very sensible, nor do they bleed in any material degree. In addition to all this mischief, the slightest motion causes severe agony, and there is sloughing and ulceration over the sacrum. The patient, though suffering from hectic, still retains his appetite. I have never seen another case corresponding to this, which, I appre- hend, will soon prove fatal. See Kirkland'i Med. Surgery, vol. ii. Trans, of tlie King's and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland, vol. ii. p. 26, &c. 8vo. Dublin, 1818. F. Schoenmezel, Obs. de Musculis Psoa et Iliaco sup- puratis, Frank. Del. Op. V. R. Beckwit/i, De Morbo Psoadico, Edinb. 1784. Abernet/ti/'s Surgical and I'liysiological lissays, parts 1 and 2. Crowther, On White-Swelling, &c. 1808. Latla's Surgery, vol. iii. Calltsen's Systema Cliir. Hodierna;, vol. i. p. 370. I'earnon's Principles of Surgery, p. 102. edit. 2. Riclitcr's Anfangsgriinde der Wundarzneykunst, b. •"). 113. GOttingen, 1801. Jo/in Lizars, Case of Double Psoas Abscess, Edinb. Med. Surg. Journ. No. 84. /(. Copland IlutcliUon's Practical Obs. in Surgery, cd. a. LUNAR CAUSTIC. (See Nitkate of SlI.VKR.) LUPUS. Li'pu.s, or Eatino Tktter, has been defined a tubercular disease, inducing ragged ulcer- ation of the skin. Dr. natenian in his Synopsis lias touched very lightly upon it, and assigns as a reason, that he can mention nn remedy which has been of any essential service in the cure of it. To portray the amount and intensity of its depredations, analogous to the gnawing of somo voracious animal, or the ravages of some insect, the epithets lupus voraiv formica corrosiva were bestowed upon it by the ancient medical writers. Ry the Greek translators id the works of the Arabian physicians it is de- LUPUS. 271 scribed as the epTr?;? iaQioixevos corresponding [to the Latin herpes cvedens. In France it is called dartre rongeante; in Germany,rfiVi fressende FlecMe. Tlie common locality of lupus is some portion of the face. I have, however, seen it attack the nates; and Mons. Alibert mentions an instance of its occurring on the breast. It is for the most part solitary, confined to a single point of the in- tegument. There all its virulence seems concen- trated. Lupus is in general a disease of adolescence, at- tacking both sexes indiscriminately, at the period of life when there exists the greatest predisposition to aii'ections of the cutaneous and glandular sj's- tems. It would seem, however, to be rather more common in the female than in the male. Accord- ing to Mons. Devergie (Traite Pratique des Mala- dies de la Pecm, p. 558), in forty-seven cases of lupus twenty-five occurred in females, and twenty- two in males. This is no doubt due to the greater preponderance of the lymphatic system in the former than the latter sex. Lupus is most fre- quently met with in individuals from fifteen to thirty-five years of age, as reckoned from thirty-six cases out of forty-four. It is, however, chiefly de- veloped between the fifteenth and the twenty-fifth year. The individuals most liable to suffer from lupous ulceration, which the writer has designated erosive zdcer of tie derma {Lond. Med. Gat. vol. xix. p, 329), are those of the lymphatic temperament; of a fair, occasionally rosy complexion, with light auburn hair, grey or blue irides, and a tender skin. To a superficial observer, the general health seems un- affected; but on minutely investigating the state of the different functions, more or less derange- ment will, in the majority of instances, be detected in those of the ohylopoietic viscera. The tongue is redder than natural, especially along the mar- gins, and towards the extremity; its central portion presents a cream-coloured fur, through which the red papillae project. The breath is more or less offensive, the evacuations from the bowels irregu- lar and unhealthy. To these may be found super- added other signs indicative of what has been termed strumous dyspepsia. From the survey of a considerable number of cases^ of this variety of erosive ulcer, I am led to coincide with those authors who look upon it as a symptomatic affection. It is usually dependent on some disorder in the functions connected with assimilation and nutrition. If, indeed, ever truly localised, it has been preceded or accompanied, during some period of its course, by unequivocal marks of those errors of function to which allusion has just been made, and which point to Eoiue un- healthy condition of the economy at large. Dr. Macfarlanc, in his Clinical Reports, men- tions that in Glasgow, during the years 1810 and 1019, when the working-classes were exceedingly ill-fed, he had occasion to see a greater number of cases of lupus among the district poor under his charge than at any fornicr or subsequent period. According to Mons. Rayer, it has been at times extremely prevalent among the indigent in some parts of France, particularly the sterile mountainous regions of the Haute Auvergne, from scanty and unwholesome nourishment. It appears to originate more frequently in winter than at any other season of the year, and is more connnon among those wlio live in the country than in towns. ii: