10-20 WOUNDS. course vary greatly, and tliey may be compli- cated by tlie presence of foreign bodies, hferaorr- hage, injury of nerves, muscles, joints, &c. Some incised wounds are sub-cutaneous, while others are open to the surface, but the subse- quent remarks refer to the latter alone, a separate article being devoted to the consideration of sub- cutaneous wounds. The primary plienomena attending open incised woxmAs gaping, bleeding, and. pain; \yhile the secondary are those which mark the repair of such wounds. The gaping which fuUows an incision in the soft parts will vary with the tension and elasticity of the texture in which it is situated, its vital con- tractility, and the action of the muscular fibres implicated. In dense textures the separation of the lips of the wound may be very slight. By the judicious use of position and apparatus during treatment, the surgeon has much in his pov/er to diminish the strain which otherwise would fall on the edges, and so cause gaping. The amount of bleeding, will of course, chiefly depend on the vascularity of the tissues divided, and in a lesser degree on the plasticity of the blood of the person wounded. The nearer the vessel wounded is to the main trunk from which it comes, the freer will the hijemorrhage be. That peculiar diathesis to which the term " hEemorrhagic" has been applied, may occasion most dangerous bleeding to follow even a slight wound. Warmth and a dependent position en- courage, while cold and elevation diminish the bleeding. The amount of pain attending an incised wound will be chiefly determined by the nerves which are divided, and also, in no small measure, by the temperament of the patient. The skin, especially in some regions, as on the face, palmar and plan- tar surfaces, and about the anus, is peculiarly sensitive ; while bone, cartilage, tendon, &c., are but lowly endowed with sensibility. Inflamed textures are especially painful when cut, and this is peculiarly true of some tissues, which in their normal condition are nearly devoid of sensation, as for example, the tendons. Frozen parts, or those stupified by injury, are little sensible to incision. Clean cut, uncontused incised wounds are those especially fitted for early and rapid union, and the measures to be employed to bring that about will be discussed presently. Pwwlured wounds are those caused by pointed sharp weapons. They are, as a rule, narrow and deep, and are thus liable to complications by the injury of deep textures. Bayonet, lance, and many sword wounds come under this designation, and it need hardly be said that such lesions are frequently of the utmost severity. Foreign bodies are apt to be concealed in punctured wounds ; blood-vessels and nerves may be seriously wounded; and discharges are liable to be confined, and so to cause mischief. Erysipelas, lymphatitis, abscess, and sinus, are not unfrequent consequences. These wounds are often slow to heal, especially if there is much bruiting (as there frequently is)_ accom- panying the puncture, and it is by graiuilation they commonly unite. Contused wounds are the effects of blunt weapons which bruise the lips of the solution of continuity, and either produce sloughing, or so impair the vitality of the textures, that they are incapable of early healing. Union in these wounds lakes place by granulation, or by secondary adhesion, as a rule, though portions of them less contused than the re»t may heal by primary adiiesion. Tlie edges are commonly ecchymosed and bruised in proportion to the severity of the violence, and their vascularity; and sloughing will occur to a greater or less degree, leaving afterwards granulating surfaces to be dealt with. Contused wounds rarely bleed much, and thus cause less alarm than an incised wound of the same magnitude, but they are greally more dan- gerous in their after eftects, from the destruction of substance which occurs, and the complications apt to rise. Secondary hajmorrhage is liable to fol- low as the sloughs separate, and inflammation and gangrene are readily established. Gunshot wounds are of the class of contused wounds, and receive separate consideration in vol. 1. Lacerated wounds have torn, irregular edges ; as for example, those produced by a saw. They are not unfrequent as resulting from machinery, or from the bites of some animals. The phenomena attending lacerated wounds are very similar to those which are seen in contused wounds, and the progress of both are much alike. The tearing of the blood-vessels which takes place occasionally to so remarkable an extent in many severe machinery wounds may prevent any great hsemorrhnge atten- ding even the most terrible injuries of this class. Wlien the contusion and laceration are great, the pain is often very slight, from the vitality of the textures being gravely interfered with, but when the contusion is slight the suffering is often violent. The amount of sloughing which follows a lacer- ated or a contused wound will of course depend mostly on the violence of the injury, but also on the recuperative power of the part, and in no small degree on the treatment pursued. In most cases the recovery'is tedious, and the risk of secondary bleeding, erysipelas, gangrene, abscess, and sinus considerable. Limbs torn ofi" by machinery or cannon-balls are perhaps the most terrible accidents which fall to the care of the surgeon. The blood-vessels, nerves, and tendons are then found hanging out torn and ragged, and the integuments and muscles irregu- larly separated, bruised and destroyed. The bones too, are frequently so split that the injury is n-re- trievable. The various tissues opposing different degrees of resistance, the resulting wound is thus most irreoular. Poisoned loojtrerfs.—The lesion may present the features of anv of those species of wounds already described, but'we have, besides and beyond these characters, others which belong to the inoculation of a poison on the part. Usually the wound is a punctured or incised one, and in that respect in no way peculiar, but the presence of a poison adds special and characteristic features to the case. The poison introduced into the wound may w either an animal, vegetable, or mineral one. Some harbarian tribes, as is well known, dip their arr.nvs in poison of a most subtle and deadly k'"^-" "« acts with amazing speed and potency. W oor« is used for this purpose, and also the poison ol i" rattlesnake, as we are told by some Americau writers. , fnr Certain animals are provided with a venom lo their protection, which, if introduced into wouna , may prove hurtful or highly dangerous. J" arc many species of insects and spiders posse"