322 part of it is yet alive. In necrosis, on tlie contrary, tlie vitality and niiti'itive functions cease altogether, in a certain portion of the bone, the separation of which then becomes indispensable. {De Necrdst Oissium, p. 7.) p J 1 I have mentioned, that M. Louis conhued the term necrosis to cases, in which the whole thickness of a bone perished; but Weidmann judiciously criticises this limitation of the word, and main- tains, that the nature of the disorder is the same whether it affect a single scale, the whole, or a mere point, of the bone. He also objects to the definition of necrosis proposed by thopart {Dissert da Necrosi Ossmm, Paris, 17C5), and adopted by David (06s. sur una Maladie connue sous lenom de Necrose, Paris, 1782.) These two authors have defined necrosis to be a disorder, m which a portion of bone perishes, and turns dry, in order to be soon separated from the living parts, and replaced by a new bony substance which is to perform its functions. But, as Weidmann ob- serves, it may happen, that a piece of bone, which dies and separates, ^^^^Y'f^''^ ■^''Z new formation of bone, though the disease is of the same character, and merely varies in some modi- fications. He therefore argues, and every rational surgeon will agree with him, that a true necrosis must always be said to exist, whenever a dead portion of bone has either separated, or is about to separate " Vera demum necrosis simper est, st aliquod ossisramenium, in quo vis vilw cMmcta est, ahscessit,velproximeabscessurumest. J.^-'-) . [The bones most commonly attacked by necrosis are the tibia, femur, lower jaw, humerus, clavicle, ulna, radius, and cranium. The upper jaw is oc- casionally the subject of this disease and when such is the case, no reproduction of bone ever occurs. [Stanley on Diseases of the Bones, p. 72. ) J In fact, excepting the lower jaw and scapula the process of regeneration has only been noticed in the cylindrical bones. From 12 to 18 years of aee, is the time of life most subject to necrosis, but it may be met with at any period; it is no however common in old people unless_ the result of an injury. Necrosis of the lower jaw seldom is found before the age of 30. No climate, age, sex, mode of life, nor condition (says Weidmann), is exempt from this disorder. Childhood and puberty, however, are the periods most liable to it. The same thing may be said ol persons, who labour hard, and are much exposed to external injuries. Every bone of the human body is liable to necrosis; but those which are superficial, and enter into the formation of the ex- tremities, are more frequently aftected, than others whose situation is deeper. Necrosis less commonly attacks the spongy substance of the bones, because this being endued with a higher degree of vascu- larity and life, suppuration is more apt to occur. Necrosis, on the contrary, is ofteiier seen in the compact substance, where the vital principle is less energetic, and more readily extinguished. It has been truly remarked that a very slight injury will frequently occasion an extensive exfoliation from the surface of the cylinder of a long bone; whilst a musket-ball may pass through the cellular struc- ture of an epiphysis, or lodge in its substance, without giving rise to necrosis, suppurative inflam- mation being more likely to occur, than the lat- ter affection. {Dell on Diseases of the Bones, c^-c, p. 49.) Lastly, necrosis may affect the long bones, NECROSIS. or the broad; the large or small, and even those the very least in size; since it is well known, that tho ossicula of the ear may be destroyed by ne- crosis, and separate. I have seen this happen in two instances, and the fact is recorded by several writers. (See Astruc de Morhis Fenereis, lib. iv. cap I. Henri, Journal de Mtdecine, t. xv. p. 363.) Though necrosis mostly attacks the cylindrical bones, the flat ones are not exempt from the dis- ease. Pott makes mention of a parietal bone, the whole of which was detached, and of anos froiitis, the greatest part of which came away. [Our museums furnish also many specimens of extensive necrosis of the cranial bones; in these cases syphilis is a very frequent cause of the disease, but it may be the result of an injury.] In a thesis on necrosis, written m 177&, may be found the case of a young man, a very large part of whose scapula perished and separated. Chopart, who relates the case, mentions, that he saw the patient quite recovered, and felt a new triangular moveable bone, firmly supporting the clavicle, but smaller and flatter than natural, and without any spinous process. The same has hap- pened to the lower jaw, as may be seen by referring to the Ephemerides Nat. Cur. and Mem. dc I Acad, de Chirurgie. In the fifth volume of the latter work, is an account of a woman who applied to be relieved of some venereal complaints. From the beginning of the treatment, the bone was discovered to be loose just under the gums, and seemed, shortly af- terwards, to move backwards and forwards with a tooth. M. Guernery took hold of the tooth with a key-instrument, and found it firmly inserted in the moveable jaw; he made with caution the necessary manoeuvres for extracting the portion of bone; but was greatly surprised on finding what an extensive part yielded to his very moderate efforts. It was the whole of the lower jaw, above its right angle from its division into the coronoid and condyloid processes to the space between the first and second of the front grinders of the left side. On the right, there only remained the condyle in the articular cavity of the temporal bone. This destruction left a considerable empty space, from which great deformity was apprehended, in consequence oi the unsupported soft parts falling down. The woman liowever, got well in two months, and had the most perfect use of anew jaw. A similar fact is recorded in the Journal do Medccine, 1 791. iMr. Perry re- moved the whole of the lower jaw, aftected with necrosis from one ramus to the otlier ; and such a reproduction of it took place, that the woman con d compress substances placed between the jaws, with some force. (Merf. C/a>. te-vol xxi.) Similar instances are also recorded by T)^,^n% i:yn^HChe. lius'sSystemofS,a-gery,hySouUH^o\.^^^^^ When the body of a cylindrical bone, or the middle portion of a flat bone is destroyed by- necrosis, their extremities, which "^^f ^^^^^ tPYture cenerally continue tinaftected, so that in TS^rlLx boLs, the articular ends are port.onB of the original bone, which are engrafted, as it were, on the new production. There are, however a few bad cases, in which the necrosis doe. im altogether spare the heads of the bones and the diseie conlmunicates ^J^l^^:^^ examples are not very co"""""', :„dged thev with Lnsiderable Jaj- « e limb mdeed th^ _