In passing review, we but slightly Excessive 26« LITHOTRITY, pends are the nature, position, &c., of the calculus, the condition of the urinary organs, and finally, the general health of the patient. " these various circumstances under arrive at conclusions which differ from those adopted by M. Civiale, size and hardness of the stone contra-indicate lithotrity, because one of the conditions above enumerated cannot be attained, viz., that of not inflicting any injury on the urinary organs or on the general health of the patient. A large dense stone cannot as a rule be reduced to powder without a considerable number of manipulations, and the risk of over-exciting the bladder by these repeated manoeuvres is so great that lithotomy is preferable. The condition of the urinary organs is the next point examined in reference to the indications of lithotritjf. Few calculous patients are altogether free from some disorder of the urinary apparatus, while many affections of the bladder merely in- fluence the results of lithotrity without absolutely contra-indicating the operation. Hence it is a matter of great importance to ascertain what morbid conditions of the genito-urinary apparatus are incompatible with the safe and successful ap- plication of lithotrity. Enlargement of the prostate gland is an unfa- vourable circumstance in all cases, but it is not an absolute contra-indication. The surgeon wiU first determine, by careful examination, the precise nature and extent of the obstacles which it may create; and having done this, he proceeds to consider how far this unfavourable element may influence other conditions. For example, when the enlargement is moderate, and does not there- fore much impede the working of the instruments in the bladder, lithotrity is not forbidden, pro- vided the stone be small and the organs not extremely sensitive. On the other hand, when the prostatic enlargement is considerable, we should not have recourse to lithotrity if there is reason to suppose, from the size or density of the stone, &c., that the operation will require a number of manipulations for its completion. Finally, lithotrity is contra-indicated in those cases where any serious disorder of the urinary organs coexists with such an enlargement of the prostate as may tend to protract the opera- tion. Respecting the influence of chronic inflam- mation or catarrh of the bladder, it is of very frequent occurrence in calculous patients, and it is therefore of importance to examine how far such a condition may influence our choice of the opera- tion to be selected. Simple calculous catarrh of the bladder, instead of being aggravated by litho- trity, is almost always alleviated by comminution of the foreign body. It is satisfactory to be enabled to state that this opinion has been fully confirmed by the experience of Sir B. Brodie. He expresses his opinioif that ' inflammation of the mucous membrane of the bladder, induced by calculus, and indicated by great irritability of the organ and the copious secretion of mucus, does not form any absolute objection to the operation, although it is doubtless a reason for proceeding with more caution ; for, on the contrary, it often happens, under such circumstances, that tho crushing of the calculus is followed by an allevia- tion of all the bad symptoms.' According to the writer's o^vn experience, it is only where the chronic inflammation of the bladder has been of long standing, or is compli- cated with other lesions, that it becomes necessary to reflect whether the state of the vesical mucous membrane will admit of instruments being em- ployed without danger. If the catarrh were accompanied by any organic or severe aflx;ction of the neck or body of the bladder, lithotrity should certainly be abstained from. Purulent catarrh of the bladder we also hold to be a positive contra-indication. In this we know that we differ from a high authority; but expe- rience has taught us that a purulent secretion from any part of the genito-urinary system may, under the influence of an operation, become a determin- ing cause of purulent infection of the blood. Another condition of the bladder which contra- indicates lithotrity is hypertrophy, with diminu- tion of the cavity and extreme irritability of the bladder. It is unnecessary to point out how dangerous any manipulations would be in an organ thus affected. Small fibrous tumours about the neck of the bladder may impede the operation without abso- lutely contra-indicating it; but vascular or cancer- ous tumours in the body of the bladder should be regarded as positive contra-indications. We agree with Civiale in thinking that paralysis of the bladder does not contra-indicate lithotrity, although it is a serious condition, which requires great care. The sittings should be short and the bladder washed out daily with a large-eyed catheter, to promote the evacuation of the detritus. But it happens much more frequently that the bladder of calculous patients is in a condition directly opposed to the one just noticed. The constant irritation of a foreign body produces increased sensibility of the urinary organs, and this is soon followed by hypertrophy of the bladder with diminution of its cavity. In cases of this kind the mucous membrane of the bladder is often tho seat of chronic inflammation, or at least highly disposed to take on inflammatory action under any increase of irritation. The general principles already laid down explain why such a condition of parts when highl}- developed contra-iudicates lithotrity: thus it has been stated, that ' the play of the instruments in the bladder must be sufficiently free to allow of our breaking up the stone without inflicting any injur}' on the bladder, or irritating that organ in any dangerous way.' It is evident that this condition cannot be fulfilled when the bladder contracts with such force as to leave no space between its walls and the surface of the stone, and it would be folly to attempt an operation xmder circumstances which are directly opposed to its successful performance. As the extent to which the prostate may be enlarged varies, and the abnormal states accom- panying this lesion are also of various kinds, each case must be decided on according to its conditions; but here, as well as in most other series of cases, the general rule is applicable to determine how far the lesions and disorders which are present may impede the manipulations or influence llie results of tho operation. Certain conditions of tho general health contra- indicate lithotritj'. When patients have suffered from a calculous afifection for many years the