430 PALATE, FISSURE OF. with an artificial palate. After wearing it a few months he went to reside with a nobleman, a cousin of his, and remained in his house three years with- out any member of the family discovering his defect. He subsequently went to New Zealand, and though he has been there for several years, the writer hears from him that he has never been inconvenienced by being so far removed from his help. Accidental deficiencies of (he Palate.—Acci- dental deficiencies of the palate may_ be grouped into two classes, one where the defect is the result of injur)', the other where it is the result of disease. Gunshot wounds are the most common and the most serious causes of injury ; while syphilis supplies by far the largest number of cases the result of disease. As there is no law to regulate the amount of mischief which may be inflicted either by accident or disease, so no general description of these cases can be given, and the writer thinks he can best illustrate the misery caused hj them, and what can be accomplished by art for their relief, by relating the particulars of an extreme instance of each class in which he has had the satisfaction of affording complete reKef. Cases, the result of injury, are scarcely sufR- cientl)'' numerous, nor is the damage done exact enough in its extent, to admit of their being grouped under different heads ; but those, the re- sult of disease, may very conveniently be spoken of as deficiencies of the hard palate, the soft palate, and of both combined ; the extent of injui-y in these latter cases varying from the smallest per- foration to the loss of almost all the parts of the maxillffi and their appendages. The remarks may be premised by saying, that though a very small perforation may exist in either hard or soft palate, it will effectually destroy distinct enunciation, and banish the sufferer from society. In such case, however, a much less perfectly adapted instrument than is necessary for a congenital case will succeed in immediately restoring a clear enunciation. The great impediment to the successful treat- ment of these cases of accidental deficiency of the palate arises from the difiiculty to be overcome in getting a correct model of the injured mouth, in consequence of the great contraction that most commonly follows the healing of the ulcerations that have before existed. The operator's utmost in- genuity will often be taxed to effect this, the first stage of treatment. Case I.—Gun-shot tvound.—An officer of the British army, serving in the Crimea, was wounded by a Russian who fired at a distance of fifty yards. The ball, about an ounce in weight, struck him on the upper lip about the position of the right canine tooth, and travelled obliquely backwards, removing every tooth in the upper jaw save one, the right upper wisdom tooth, and destroying the roof of the mouth. After many months of suffering, the parts healed, leaving the sufferer quite unable to make himself understood, in consequence of an opening into the nares, about the size of a florin. Great difficulty was encountered in obtaining a model of the mouth, owing to the injury that had been inflicted on the levator muscles, which, when healed, more resembled cartilage in their immobility than muscular fibre. Having obtained a model, an apparatus was readily constructed, which immediately restored so perfect an enunciation that there was no impedi mcnt to his holding the command of hie regiment, which, but for this timely help, he would have had to resign. Case II.—Entire absence of the soft palate, the residt of si/philis.—Here again a British officer was the sufferer. The disease assailed the velum— to which happily its ravages were limited—which it so completely destroyed that but a few muscular fibres remained, and these were firmly adherent to the superior constrictor of the pharynx. The suf- ferer could only make himself partially understood by holding his nose while speaking, and under those circumstances he had completely withdrawn from society. The writer applied an artificial soft palate with so good a result that the wearer mixes in society as of yore, and without any marked defect in ar- ticulation. Case III.—Loss of hard palate, the result of sy- philis.—A married lady was in this instance the victim of disease, which assailed the bones of the hard palate. Considerable exfoliation took place, leaving in fact only the antrum on either side, the palatine processes of the maxillae, and what may be described as the inter-maxillary bone being lost. With an artificial restoration of the lost parts, this lady was enabled to mingle in society with perfect comfort to herself. Case IV.—Loss of hard and soft palate, ilte re- sult of syphilis.—This case has been described at length in vol. xxxix. of the Medico-Qdrurgical Transactions, but may be briefly recapitulated here. The disease broke out in the hard and soft palate simultaneously, and, prolonged over several years, committed frightful ravages, not only within the mouth, but on the face and neck, so much so that when the disease was arrested and the wounds healed, the contraction that followed shortened the face fully an inch and a half. The loss of parts in the interior of the mouth was enormous; the naso-oral cavity, for the two were thrown into one, formed what may be described as an isosceles triangle, the base of which was the tongue, the apex, the cribriform palate of the ethmoid bone. Not a vestige of the soft palate remained, and of the hard, only the walls of the antrum of Highmore on either side, forming, together with the tur- binated bones, the sides of the triangle. In this case the loss of articulation was so com- plete that the sufferer wrote on a tablet his wishes, just as a dumb person may do. Two years of constant labour ended in the construction of an apparatus, by the use of which articulation was so far regained that the patient was enabled to re- sume his duties as a clergyman, and has continued to do so to the present moment, a period of twelve ygjijg Edicin Sercomhe. PANNUS. When two or three pterygia of different sizes occurred on the same ej-e, with their points directed towards the centre of the cornea, where they met, and covered all the surface of this transparent membrane with a dense pellicle, the ancients named the disease pannus. {Scarpa, chap. U.) At present, the term is applied to any opaque thickening of the layer of the conjunctiva covering the cornea, . Tiio term pannus traclwmaiosus is used bj some to distinguish pannus caused by granulations, from the one caused by other morbid changes, e. g. her- pes of the cornea. In slight degrees of pannus (so-