806 ULCERATION, Xerosis signifies a peculiar alteration or even destruction of the secreting power of tlie conjunc- tiva, tliorough destruction, or obliteration of its grandular structures, and of the tear-ducts open- ing upon it. The conjunctiva assumes an opaque fibrous appearance; its surface becomes covered with dry epithelial scales, with fat and with par- ticles of chalk. This form by some is termed Xerosis Squamosa, to distinguish it from a con- dition called Xerosis glabra, in which the surface of the altered conjunctiva is moistened by tears. Sometimes onlv a narrow dry and opaque band of conjunctiva is left, which, extendmg from the margin of the eyelids to the eyeball, completely prevents the movements of the eye. Thiclcening and distortion of the tarsus and inversion of the eyelashes are usual complications. The surface of the cornea, the curvature of ■which may be good, is dry, covered witli crusts, epithelial scales, and with a semi-transparent curticle. Xerosis occurs after long-continued or badly- treated ophthalmia, especially diphtheritic or granular. Entropion, Ectropion, or Trichiasis, cnemical injuries -d burns, are the usuiil causes. No curative treatment is known, frequent washing with warm milk, or the application of glycerine, may be found beneficial.1 C. Bader. ULCERATION AND ULCERS.—[Ulcera- tion is a result of inflammation, and consists in the molecular death and removal by minute disintegra- tion and solution of the superficial vascular par- ticles of the inflamed part. There is a minute atomic division of the particles of the affected tissue, and these molecules are removed in the " ichor " or discharge which escapes from the sur- face of tlie sore or "ulcer" which forms. The terms desquamation, or excoriation, or abrasion, are applied to the removal of epithelium alone, while ulceration implies a deeper penetration of the destructive action. Inflammation, if it does not destroy, greatly weakens the vitality of the tissues it invades, and :the effusions or exudations which result from inflammatory action have a like influence, so that the liquefaction or disintegration of the structure is powerluUy promoted. Dissolved or floated in the ichor, the eroded tissue escapes, and can by its chemical or microscopic characters be occasionally detected,—not, perhaps, in^ its proximate, but in its ultimate, elements. There seems also good reason to believe that the ichor, when formed, conduces to the further disintegra- tion of the structure, especially in some forms of ulceration; and this may either be due to the in- fluence of the ichor in maintaining or relighting the inflammation, or from its exerting a quasi solvent or catalvtic action on the weakened particles. Hunter,"in his celebrated Treatise on Inflammation, ascribed the removal of the tissues in ulceration to absorption, which he supposed was accomplished by the absorbents. "Ulcerative absorption" came thus to be spoken of, and it was in a great mea- sure confounded with " interstitial absorption." Suppurating wounds, too, and ulcers were for long lield to be synonymous, and in truth the doctrine of ulceration underwent various changes along with the varying phases of medical belief. Ulceration begins by the death or sloughing of a minute point, and the establishment thereby of a breach of surface. From this point the destructive action extends in the weakened tissues around, and the broken-down panicles are thrown out from the surface of the sore which ia thus formed. The death of the initial point may be brought about either by violence, by chemical agency, by ex- treme heat or cold, by acute inflammation anyhow produced, by the presence of some specific deposit, or by the bursting of a vesicle or pustule, or, in short, by any cause which is capable of breaking the surface. The ichor, or discharge, containing as it does the detritus of the dissolved tissue, may in certain specific sores, be capable of inoculation. It is thin, serous, and sanguineous, and loaded with the elements of the liquefied structures, though it will vary in its character with the nature of the sore—its cause and progress—from which it comes. This ichor often smells badly when de- composition is active, and it presents none of the features of healthy pus till the breach of surface from which it flows begins to heal. When ulceration ceases, and the inflammation on which it depends has disappeared, the breach of surface left is repaired by the effusion and organi- sation of lymph, i.e. by granulation. Pus takes the place of the ichor, the weakened tissues gra- dually recover their vigour as their nutrition is re- stored, and a healing granulating wound takes the place of the ulcer. Finally, the sore cicatrises, and a mark of greater or less dimensions, and occasion- ally of a characteristic shape and appearance, re- mains at the seat of the nicer. It is in vascular structures, and especially in those distant from the centre of the circulation, that ulceration is apt to occur. The skin, mucous membranes and cellular tissue are liable to be so affected; while muscle, bloodvessels, bone, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and cartilages are much less apt to be the seat of such action. Newly-formed tex- tures, such as cicatrices, callus, &c., are easily made to ulcerate. Ulceration may be acute or chronic in its pro- gress, according to the nature of the inflammation which i)receded it. the nature of the exciting cause, and the coiuiition of vital vigour of the partattacked. A part which has been long congested, or the seat of inflammatory deposits, is often rapidly broken down by ulieration. Ulceration, then, being a result of inflammation, recognises the same predisposing and e.xciting causes. Anything which lowers the vitality of the part by'intertering with its nutrition would render it liable to ulceration. If the blood circu- lating in the part is unfit either in amount or com- position for its requirements, if it does not circulate healthily, if the innervation is feeble, if the atomic elements of the parts are so changed as not to be able to make good use of the blood and nerve force supplied to them, then a diminished vitality would be established, and a liahility to ulceration arise, which may be called into activity by a very sliglit exciting cause. It is by interfering with the nutrition of the tissues that certain sptcific diseases —such as svphilis, scurvy, and scrofula—predispose to ulceration; and that starvation, or the prolonged use of unsuitable food (such as the exclusive em- nlovment of noii-ii/.otised materials), and lowering or weakening ailments of all kinds, tend to produce the same result. . When «slouuhing" is combined with ulcei- ation, the degenerated tissues separate in visible masses, as well na being partially dissolved and