INFLAMMATION. 62 leading step towards healing by granulations ; and ulceration. "Any irritation which is so great as to destioy suddenly the natural opeiations of any one part, and the effect of which is so long continued as to oblige the parts to act for their own relief, produces in some parts, first the ad- hesive inflammation; and if the cause be increased, or continue still longer, the suppurative state takes place, and all other consequences, as ulceration; or, if in the other parts, as secreting surfaces, then the suppurative takes place immediately, and, if too violent, the adhesive will succeed ; or if parts are very much weakened, the ulcerative will immediately succeed the adhesive, and then suppuration will be the consequence." It will be obvious that Hunter took for his philosophical basis, like Van Helmont, Willis, Stahl, Mead, and De Sauvages, the assumption of a conscious and intelligent entity ruling the animal body. It will also be obvious that he ignores totally what is now known as the doctrine of " conservation of force," which teaches that no movement is self-generated, or can be produced save by the conversion of some pre-existing move- ment. Hence that no "increase of power" can be generated by mere necessity or expediency. If we wish to realise the enormous gap which sepa- rates modern thinkers from the past, we need onlv refer to this idea. Yet we may remember that the doctrine of a vital spirit is held to this day (see p. 56), and that the venerated Front {b. 1786, d. 1850), not only believed in "independent vital principles or agents," but also in the power^of the digestive organs to " form azote and carbon,' on an emergencv. {On Stomach, 4'C., 3rd ed., 1840, p. xxix.) With such intelligent vital agents, and such creative powers, why, we may ask, do ani- mals ever sicken and die ? , i, • The weakness of Hunter's philosophical basis was readily detected by his contemporaries. John Burns, " Surgeon in Glasgow " (who first described medullary cancer under the terra " Spongoid Inflammation," in hisDiaserlations on Inflammaiion, Glasgow, 1800, p. 345), "holds that there is no supposition more directly contrary to true philoso- phy and reason than the opinion that certain events take place merely because they are useful. It may also fairly be asked what is the sense of acknowledging a vis medicalrix, if Us actions are as destructive as any injury or disease can be Hunter's writings also are full of the fault o taking a metaphysical amplification for a real explanation. For instance, if it be asked wliy some parts do not readily suppurate, the answer is, "the lealiness to accept of the adhesive most probably becomes a cause why the suppurative inflammation does not so readily take place. It is well known that gouty inflammation is very violent, and that violent inflammation nor- mallv produces adliesion and suppuration ; but Rout does neither. Hunter's explanation o This is a mere assumption of the ^''■'''"'f an intelligent vital principle, and that eHec s aie produced because useful. "Adhesions n the U he says, "do -t seem^to be the >nt« because none are produced ; ana, me mation is the onlv thing necessary to produce uie ultimate efi-ect,"'therefore there is inflammation without suppuration. So that laws are no laws if it please "Nature" to set them aside tor tne benefit of the patient! It must be remembered that although Hun- ter's great work was not fully published till after his death, yet that he had been for more than thirty years working at it, and during the greater part of his time lecturing, so tliat his views were well known and criticised long be- fore his book was complete. For example, John Pearson (PH)ici;;/es o/Sar</cry,Part i.,Loud.,1788) objects to treating the adhesive as a separate or peculiar kind of inflammation. He more justly ridicules the doctrine of ulceration by the agency of "absorbent vessels," to which Hunterians adhere down to the present day. Any part of any bone, he said, might die, and be separated by ulceration. But if this is done by the mouths of the absorbents, these mouths must be everywhere ; and if so, where are the trunks ? Of course. Hunter was not popular in his lifetime, his temper was too violent and contemptuous ; and his rivals denounced him as an innovator, and a niere phy- siologist. He was hated by Benjamin and John Bell almost as much as they hated each other. Benjamin Bell in his System of Surgei-y (6th ed., Edinburgh, 1796) describes increased action of the arteries, with spasm of the extreme vessels, as the proximate cause of inflammation ; "a doctrine whicli," he says, " for several years has prevailed in this University." Suppuration is a fermenta- tion of serum. Adhesion of wounds is the same process as adhesion of inflamed serous membranes ; viz., by " exudation of the gelatinous parts of the blood from the extremities of the divided vessels." This is "Healing by the first Intention." Jolin Bell, in his Discourses on Womds (2nd ed., Edinburgh, 1800), sneers at Hunter's experiment of the tooth and cock's comb, wtiich he would not believe till as- sured by his friend Astley Cooper that it was a fact He is " at pains to represent the improvement'. of procuring the adhesion of wounds, not as the work of Hunter, but " as gradual and silent ; as having obtained general and common consent by a slow communication from friend to friend, till at last the practice was fairly established, and no man could fully claim an improveraen^t in which every man had some little share." The doctviiie of primary adhesion was not uni- versally accepted when O'Halloran {Treatise on Ganyrene, Jmpututioii, 4-c., Dublin, 1765) wrote, for he treated it as cliimerical, and first dressed wounds with lint and flour till suppuration began, then applied the granulating surfaces to unite by the "second intention." This was a great improvement on the old plan of letting a stump heal witli a large cicatrix, but the credit of procuring immediate union is due to Edward Ahm- son, of Liverpool {On AniftttuUon, London, 1779), who at once united the wounds after amputation and extirpation of cancer. Hunter even denounced union in the latter case as dangerous. It is easy to point out the errors of Hunter, which were those of his time ; but they do but add more lustre to the grandeur of his character and of his life labour, which was all his own. He saw the necessity of making pliy sic a branch of bio- logy. Other great men had seen this, but Hunter began to do it. He saw that it was necessary, in order to understand disease, that healthy actions must be studied, and this not in man only but m the whole organic range, animal and vegetable, lo acquire this knowledge he appealed to the whole animated world, aud left his Museuai as the record