the composition and constitution of the part undergo changes which alter its rehitions to neighbouring parts, whether blood-vessels or otiior structures, and enable it to attract to itself, and to absorb from them, a larger quantity of matter than usual, and to affect tiie circulation.* Every form of inflammation with which we are acquainted may be explained in this way. It begins as an inflam- mation from the moment when this absorption of matters takes place, and changes in the matters commence." Nutritive and fonnative irritation differ in this respect. Under the first the "constituent ele- ments of a tissije already existing take up a larger quantity of material." The cells are larger, fuller, clouded,andpreternaturally distended withnntritive matter. Under formative irritation the cells alter in form, divide, and proliferate. This short sketch of Virchow's doctrine will suffice to show its vigour and completeness; and the enormous progress which the microscope and cell doctrine enabled the pathologist to make, from the mere blood-vessels to the very penetralia of the tissues, in his task of unravelling the' secrets of the inflammatory process. INFLAMMATION. C5 Subsection 5.—Later VlE^vs of the Powers OP Pkotoplasm or Germinal Matter. " E pur si muove." There is no rest for the ■student of medical theories. Not even Virchow's genius could save the doctrine of cells from the common fate of the doctrines that had gone before. The first change we may notice is one in the conception of the cell itself, and in the notion of what are or are not its essential parts. The ideal " cell " was generally described as consisting of a boundary or cell wall, containing cell contents of various kinds, and a nucleus. It might further be imbedded (like cartilage cells) in an intercellular substance, supposed to be the remains of the blas- tema out of which the cell was developed. Huxley even, in 1053 {BHt. and For. Med. Rev., Oct. 1853, p. 305), considered the cell wall or periplast, thc^ost important element. He clearly saw that it was this part which becomes converted into tissue, but conceived that this conversion was " the result, not of any metabolic action of the endoplast " (i.e. the cell contents and nucleus, which this acute naturalist believed to be the less important element), " but of intimate molecular changes in its substance which take place under the guidance of the vis essentialis, or, to use a strictly positive phrase, which occur in a definite order we know not why." But as time went on, it became dear that the same mistake had been m:ide as if a shell had been defined to be the essential part of a molhisk, Without considering that there are mollusks with- out shells. It was clear also that a cell might exist without nucleus, frequent and important tnougti that part be. Attention was also called to the nature of the contents of the youngest cells, ana to their similarity Cpointed out by VV. Addison the autlulr-r"'" '""s'lt'on. f'e translator (with *• Rci, ' ^ sanction) .Iraws a distinction between " irriHHn?, translating the latter by wonVu ' i"V' I'y " irritamcnt." This S ""P'y of imaginary inte - tigs ,n« ^'"'^ °f nssnmed by tlie Btatro nP?i"J'r'''r''=' ^'"r '• in-itation," which cianffcs ^ I'ceoines the cause of further in 1843, Frov. Med. Trans., Vol. xi.), to the sarcode of which the humblest members of the animal kingdom are composed. The name ^>ro.'o- plasiii was given to the cell contents; it was asserted that neither the vesicular form, nor the cell wall, nor the nucleus were necessary, and that the essential of a '• cell " was a small mass of proto- plasm endowed with independent life. It would be out of our province to distribute the credit duo for the elaboration of this physiological problem to Max Schulze,Leydig, Remak,and other continental physiologists; but, in the meanwhile, Lionel Beale, the English microscopist, working with glasses of a power hitherto unreached, had constructed a scheme of his own, which he made public in lec- tures at the College of Physicians in 1861. (See Reports in Med. Times and Gazette, 18(51, vol. i • also supra, p. 27. History of the Cell Doctrine] by James Tyson, M.D., Philadelphia, 1870.) Beale taught that the animal body is composed of "elementary parts" (physiological units, or " cells "), and that each " part" consists of a small mass of livinpr, active, ' germinal matter " (" centre of nutrition " of Goodsir), derived by direct suc- cession from the original germinal matter of the ovum. Around, dependent on this, may be more or less " formed material " which has been elabo- rated and produced by the germinal matter. For instance, in living cartilage the germinal matter is distributed in little masses at regular distances each surrounded with more or less of iiyaline matter, which it has assimilated from the blood and elaborated by its own vital power. Most of the masses of germinal matter, found in every tissue, are called "nuclei;" but the nucleus really is a new centre of growth in germinal matter ; it is like an ovum to provide for its main- tenance and succession, but not essential to its ex- istence. The germinal matter is composed of spheri- cal particles so infinitely small as to defy the imagi- nation. The purest specimens of germinal matter are the white blood corpuscles, and pus corpuscles. These have no cell wall, unless the exterior of the corpuscles ,s submitted to the action of somethinc^ which kills and curdles it. Germinal matter has the power of movement like the amojba ; when it grows beyond a certain size is gives off buds or offshoots, or divides into particles'having the power of rapid growth and multiplication. Under in- Hammatioii, the germinal matter of the inflamed surface 01 tissue absorbs more nutriment, divides and subdivides, each portion grows rapidly, and the result is a mass of living, moving, multilbrm aniffibiiorm particles known as pus, which, when dead and inert, as they commonly are when cx-i mined, assume a spherical figure and outer mem- biane. (bee suppuration.) So far, the uilferences between Beale and Vir chow relate to the conception and morpholoey of the cell, whilst there is agreement as to its func tion in health and disease. But Beale attacks the LeUakir I atholojy in many points. He denies the importance of the connective tissue which according to Virchow, is the very seat of cnmmon' inflammation, and declares that it is, for the most part, mere ill-formed or degenerate tissue, which has lost Its proper structure marks—emnty blood vessels and the like ; and that its so-called nuclei" winch Virchow regarded as n universal ~ stock, belong to the capillaries. "The nvonp- gerniinal matter of every tissue,''says Beale (not