330 NECROSIS, cover the surface of tlie living bone, and alone main- tain the connexion between it and the dead portion. The necrosed bone is thus completely isolated from the rest, is loosened, and may bo easily re- moved, exposing a layer of florid granulations which spring from the surface of the healthy bone, and fit accurately into small depressions on the side of the exfoliated piece in contact with them. The sequestrum is not only detached from the livinc parts by this granular formation, but may even sometimes be extruded from a bony cavity in which it is contained, through the pressure con- tinuously exercised upon it by the surrounding granulations. , , The pus which is formed during the progress ot this affection, has, on chemical examination, been found to contain a much larger proportion of earthy ingredients than in other cases. This must be owing to the presence of a large quantity of the solid ele- ments of bone in the discharge, as miich as four and a half per cent, of phosphate and carbonate of lime having been obtained by analysis; whilst pus from other sources merely exhibits races of these salts. (5. Cooper, Medical Gazette, May 1845. Stanlei/, op. cit. p.89.) That a piece of necrosed bone may be removed, without any nerceptible exfoliation, is a pomtupon which all are'agreed, but the manner of its remo^'al has received different explanations. Miescher (2)« In/lam. Ossium, p. 201.) states that it is got rid ol by a process of molecular disintegration, m which the fragments are so small as to escape observation; he calls this insensible exfoliation, and Stanley is dis- posed to favom- his opinion. Nelaton, Gerdy, and others deny that loss of substance takes place in this way, and consider that the minute particles of bone ai4 removed by absorption. It >^ P'o^aUe that both these views are correct; for the large increase of those earthy salts, which compose the inorganic element of bone, in the matter discharged during the course of a necrosis, is strong evidence that the constituents of osseous tissue may be got rid of in a molecular form with the pus ; on the other hand, experiments show that pieces of dead bone, driven into a healthy shaft and allowed to remain in close contact with it for some time w 1 lose weight and almost disappear, without the formation of pus, or discharge of any kin a by which the bony fragments can be thrown oft since no external opening exists. {Savory on the Absorp- tion of dead Bone. Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xlvii.) The fequestrum is always smaller than he s in thesound bone from which it has separated hi i due to the process of absorpt.on-by m ans of which the disjunction occurs-taking place at the expense of the living bone. There can be no doubt about tie absorption of necrosed bone -h>'^t still luiit d to the living; numerous cases evince this fact, but when dead'bone is conrpletely -^'--'f < J absorbents of the surrounding parts act upon it . Mr. Hunter maintains the afhrraative and con- ^^;rs that the removal of the necrosed portion is effected partly by this process; he sta es tha gian- ulationslrise from the living bone " wh>ch push up the dead piece against the upper sides of the cavity; and in consequence of this pressure against the newly formed bone, the absorbents are set to work to remove it, and in proportion as this is ab- sorbed the piece is pushed out, the granulations filling the space behind it." Russell, Velpeau, and Lawrence are of opinion that a piece of necrosea bone.when separated, may be absorbed. Paget says that dead bone, which is continuous with^the living, "may be in part absorbed, or otherwise removed, not indeed in mas3,but after being disintegrated or dissolved." {Smy. Path. vol. i. p. 472.) The same author notices also that when ivory pegs have been driven into bones, for the repair of ununited frac- tures, only those portions of them which were era- bedded in the bone have been absorbed. Savory hasrevived Hunter's opinion, that pressure upon the dead bone is necessary to effect its absorption, and his experiments would certainly appear to be conclu- sive on this point. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xlvii.)] Stanley remarks, the question has been repeat- edly investigated by experiment; yet, he thinks, with negative results. " It has been stated (says he) on the best authority, that Sir W. Blizard tied a piece of bone, which he had carefully weighed, in an ulcer in a man's leg, and that, after a time, hav- ing removed it, it was found to have lost part of its weight, and was besides visibly altered on the surface in contact with the ulcer." But Mr. Stan- ley has repeated the experiment without obtainmg similar results: pieces of bone were often placed by him in issues for the purpose of keeping them open, but no action of the absorbents on them could ever be detected. Mr. Gullivers experi- ments, communicated to the Royal Med. and Chir. Society of London, also support the inference, that bone, completely disjoined from the living, is not acted upon by the absorbents. (See Exfoli- ation.) , , . ri. A [Liston observes, that "a dead piece of bone de- tached from the surrounding parts is m every respect an extraneous body, and it is not, and cannot be acted upon by the absorbents any more than a piece of metal, wood, or stone.' _ Rokitan- skv does not admit that any absorption of the sequestrum takes place, but believes that the solving or corrosive power exerted on its tissue by the matter" might remove it in this manner alto- gether. This question of the absorption of ne- crosed bone when loose, and separated from the living, is yet fiir from being settled.] When dead portions of bone are separated and loose, they still lodge in the ulcers and sinuses ; like other extraneous bodies they occasion irrita- tion of the soft parts, and keep up a discharge ot matter ; sometimes, however, nature succeeds in expelling them. This happens when the size and shape of the opening are calculated to facilitate the issue of the dead bone, which does not he too deeply, and is propelled outward by its own weight. In necrosis of trivial size, indeed, he small broken fragments of bone may be blended with the pus, and come away ^'th it (i><u^/, Botcsselin, Hist, de la SociHc Royalc de Mcdec c tom iv. p. 30».; }Ycidmann de Nccrosi Ossmm, 726)- but such an event can never be e-xpected, when the dead portion of bone is extensive.^ That exposed and apparently dead portions of bone sometimes disappear, and no lo>^« i;-;^"* the healing of wounds and ulcers, is a fact often ex- emplified after injuries of the skull. .1 haN^ many iSs imd opportunity of observing it-J-a^ and it has not escaped the "ot.ce of ot e. ^^ o have recorded numerous "Stances both „ th^ cranial and other bones w ere * s as oc uucd even though a p.ece o o-.i^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ i;rM! VelpI , a-S -