QRETMliA, ST npplicntion, a result which appears to be natural. If such an instrument is not soon successful, I pre- fer a very delicate silver catheter, the stem of which is increased a little in size to afl'ord it the requisite solidity. With such an one I confess I have never yet been foiled in discovering by gentle and prolonged manipulation, sooner or later, the true route into the bladder. The ability then to draw oflf some urine is the necessary proof that the instrument is safely placed. The existence of false passages has been alluded to. They form undoubtedly one of the most perplexing complications which the operator can have to deal with, inasmuch as the difficulty of getting into tiie right opening is greatly increased by the readi- ness with which the instrument enters the wrong one. It is advantageous, however, to bear in mind, when engaged in the management of such eases— iirst, that false passages most frequently commence on a level heloiu that of the proper opening ; and, secondly, that the operator's finger when in the rectum, near to which the false passage is almost certain to run, will communicate information as to the route which the catheter is taking, whether it be too close to the gut or deviating to the right or left of the median line: it will, moreover, be ser- viceable in assisting him to guide the point in the true direction. On the subject of instruments it may be re- marked that of the two leading varieties, metallic and flexible, each have their special uses, and each their special advocates among practical men. In general terms, when the operator wishes to have the advantage of guiding or directing his instrument in any given course, and this in many cases will be his object, he will select an inflexible instrument. In cases of difficulty, and extreme narrowness of the stricture, a slender silver catheter must be considered, in light and accomplished hands, the best instrument to employ, always remembering that force in Us use is never admissible. Such an instrument is only to be insinuated through the stricture ; and the advantage of its being hollow is that the surgeon can verify the fact of its arrival at the bladder by drawing off the urine. But if, in any given case, he finds that the best method of discovering the passage is by an attempt to hit by chance the narrowed point, a slender gum-elastic in- strument will probably answer his purpose best. It will often succeed, and it will inflict no injury. But, on the other hand, in dilating a stricture in which little or no difficulty is encountered, it may be immaterial whether metal or flexible in- struments are employed; although the operator may generally discover in each case which instru- ment passes with the greatest ease, and produces the least uneasiness to the patient, and the result should determine his choice. For ordinary cases the scale of catheters gene- rally employed in this country, numbering from I to 12, furnishes sufficient means for our purpose. It is often, however, useful to have a few bougies of the larger sizes made conical in form. The point may be equal to No. 6, gradually increasing to 8 or 9. Another may he 7^ at the point and increase to No. 10. These form cheap and very serviceable instruments, and three or four of them will make a full set. For the small sizes I do not recommend these instruments. But there are not a few cases for which the intervals between each instrument in our ordinary catheter scale arc too IIICTURE OF, considerable ; and in order to dilate these strictures successfully we must progress slowly, and employ only the most gentle augmentations of size. The French surgeons have therefore long habitually employed a scale of instruments in which the pro- gressive steps are much more gradual than ours, and these I have for many years adopted with suc- cess for the cases referred to. The Nos. 1 to 12 of our scale are nearly equivalent to the Nos. 3 to 21 of theirs; they have two numbers smaller, viz. 1 and 2, and nine larger, viz. 22 to 30 inclusive. These numbers also are not arbitrary, but have the advantage of expressing the circumference in mil- limetres, so that the number of the instrument conveys the exact measurement of its calibre. For example, the No. 18 (which is about 101 of our scale) is eighteen millimetres in circumference, and consequently six millimetres in diameter. I am in the habit of using these in the flexible form, and rarely now employ metallic bougies or cathe- ters, except under the conditions alluded to above. A good de.al has been said and written about the use of" model bougies," which are supposed to enable the operator to take a cast of the face of a stricture, and to employ his instruments ac- cording to the indications so furnished. I believe I express the opinion of nearly all practical sur- geons of the present day, in saying that these contrivances, however theoretically promising, are quite useless to any man who has learned to handle a catheter with gentleness and facility. Treatment of Stricture by Vital 'i>ihtation.-~ This method was so named by Dupuytren, and it consists in placing the point of a small instrument in close contact with the stricture, and leaving it hxed, so that a degree of pressure is maintained against the obstruction for a few hours. For this purpose, if the obstruction be situated far back he employed a short gum-elastic catheter, say about No. 1, from which the stilet has been removed, in order that it may be retained in the bladder for a few hours, when it has penetrated so far. Not more than an inch and a half should appear ex- ternally, and at this extremity should be fixed two rings, through which two strips of narrow tape should be earned down by the sides of the penis and there fastened with adhesive plaister. This plan is available equally for those cases in wliich no penetration has been made, and for those iu which, although some degree of it has been accom- plished, still the stricture cannot be passed; but of course,it is inapplicable wherea false passage exists as any sojourn of the instrument there could only be productive of serious injury. It has sometimes proved successful where a good operator has failed by ordinary manipulation. Continuous or Permanent Dilatation.—Among the various means, not of carrying an instrument through an obstinate stricture, but of dilating it when that necessary preliminary has been accom- plished, one of the safest, and at the same time most expeditious, is that of retaining the catheter m the urethra for twenty-four, forty-eight, or even seventy-two hours at a time, without removing it Especially when great diffieulty has been cncounl tored in its introduction, and there is reason to believe equal difficulty would be found in replacing it were it withdrawn, this plan of treatment is fre- quently of very great value; so also,if false passages exist; if ordinary dilatation produces little result- if, owing to extreme sensibility of the canal each