sonn gavo a iieiv face to theories of inflammation. In iSiii Sciileiden published liis observations on the essential structure of plants, and was very so(in followed hy Schwann, who demonstrated that one and the same plan rules the original composition of animals. Both plants and animals are composed of myriads of units, or cells, each enjoying a life of its own (as Borden had shown) though all sub- ordinated to the general life of the individual. Schwann's cell theory takes for its starting- point the existence of a soft structureless, or granu- lous, substance, such as that of the early embryo in the ovum, or that nutritive material effused from the capillaries into the interstices of all tissues. This is called hlaslema or ci/toblasiema. In this, he says, there appear in due course granules ;— granules by growth or by coalescence, form small bodies called nuclei ;—on a nucleus there forms by precipitation a membrane, projecting from it like the glass of a watch, called the cell membrane;— and thus is formed a nucleated cell. Cells mav continue isolated, as the blood lymph and pus corpuscles ; they may cohere by their edges to forra a pavement or superficial layer, as cuticle or epithelium ; they may coalesce with the remaining cylublastema into a solid mass, as bone or cartilage; they may elongate and split into fibres, as the are- olar tissue ; or they may elongate, and coalesce by their extremities to form tubes, such as those which contain the peculiar strbstance of muscle and nerve. " Thus," sfeiid Dr. J. Hughes Bennett, "nutrition in all organised beings consists in the formation of a cytoblastema, in which nucleated cells are formed, •which are again developed into different textures, or made subservient to the process of secretion." We must add that this aspect of the cell doc- trine, which taught free cell development in a blastema, was soon called iu question, though most ably applied to pathology by Hughes Bennett and Lebert; and the development of cell from cell, either by fissure or division, or budding or endoge- nous multiplication, was held the more orthodox view. The cell theory soon attracted the attention of the zealous observers who were then at work with the new instruments made by Smith & Beck, Ross and Powell, as Kiernan, Owen, Bowman, \\. Addison, Tomes, Quekett, the Goodsirs, Hughes Bennett, Rnine}-, Wharton Jones, Tojnboej and Paget, the last of whom published in ]0'12 an admirable Report on the Results ohtainnl t,y the use of the Microscope in the study of Iluman Analomr/ and Plnjsioloy;/, and distinguished him- self as a lucid historian of the labours of others, before his own labours were made public in his Hunterian Lectures. One of the most eminent workers was Mr. Gulliver, the translator of Gcrier's Genend and Minute Anatomy, Lond., Jii'lL, and the editor of Ilcwson's works, whose "anie has honourable mention in any account of nia-roscopic pathology. Dr. J. S. Goodfellow, too, aeserves pniise for his translation of J),ivid Gruhy's OLservatiunes Microseopicce ad Morpholoniam Pa- tMo;i,cam. (Vindoboni;c, IIMO, Trans, in Micro- scoptral Journal, l!M-2.) As a s[)(.cimen of the application of the cell theory to the doctrine of inllannuation, we may take the Clearly-written work of the able and indefati-able pathnlng.st, .J. Hughes Bennett, whose Trcat?sc. on ^•>Jlnm.mation {\V,\o.^) ig intended to demonstrate . •"•"cess ia a modificutiou of the functions Vol.. Ii_ INFLAMMATION. of nutrition, as explained by the doctrine of cyto- genesis, i.e., cell development. Dr. Bennett (p. 74) compares the contraction and subsequent dilatation of the capillaries with which inflannna- tion commences to spasms and paralysis of muscular tissue. The enlargement of the vessel permits a larger quantity of blood to enter it, while ii corresponding increase of tenuity, together with " increased vital attraction " of the tissues, permits not merely of cjfusion of serum, but of " exuda- tion of liqnnr sanguinis;" and this last—not any mere vascular or nervous distm-bance—constitutes inflammation. "The blood-plasma exuded, the textures im- prisoned in it may die and pass into decompo- sition rapidly, constituting mortification; or nieu'c slowly, causing ulceration. On the other hand, it may assume an active power of growth, in which case different kinds of nucleated cells are formed, \yhich either remain isolated or pass into organisa- tion of tissue. Inflammatory softening is caused by the formation of exudation-cells ; organisablo lymph by the formation of primitive filaments, mixed with plastic corpuscles; and suppuration, by the formation of purulent matter corpuscles. When there has been loss of substance the exudation passes partly into purulent matter and partly into cellular tissue, and sometimes into other elementary textures. This, however, always by the process of cytogenesis. Occasionally the exudation isab- sorbed, either directly before its coagulation, or more commonly after this, by the disintegration of the isolated and temporary corpuscles which are formed, so that the coagulated blood-plasma is again rendered fluid and molecular, and capable of re- entering the vessels. These different results con- stitute the subsequent phenomena, or terminations of inflammation." (P. 72.) There are three factors (says H. Bennett) which determine the fate of an exudation. 1st the surrounding tissue?. Thus the plasma effused into the neighbourhood of cellular tissue, bone, divided nerve, serous tissue, may be converted into similar tissues respectively. 2ndly, the vital power of the whole organism; thus, in scrofula and debility, the development may be feeble or abortive. 3rdly rapidity of the e.'cudation favours its transformation into one of the three kinds of isolated corpuscles viz., exudation, plastic, or pus-cells. If the process is slow, the plasma exuded has an evident ten- dency to pass into a higher state of organisation- and in extreme cases, to produce hypertrophy bv forming tissues identical with tiiose c-iisting in ii nornuil state. With regard to the proposed substitution of the term anormal nutrition" for "inflammation," Dr. Bennett remiirks (p. 70) that "the term if correct, can only alfect the results of inflammation and not inflammation itself. But what is infhim- ination unconnected with exudation ? Dr. Alivon directly tells us that he can form no idea of infl^nu- mation uiiooimectod with effusion. Jf we take away the results, we have only congestion or the early phenomena remaining, to which we can never apply the term. But it is evidently erroneous to s|ilit one process into two; and to call tlio first part the cause, and the other the result. Besides where shall the division be made.? Who has ever thought in healthy nutrition of making such disiinctions ? The whole is one process, consis' uig essentially in the exudation of blood-plasma