JOINTS, DISEASES OF. 1-20 it is probable that no means whatever will be able; to restore perfect henltli to the synovial membrane of the joint for months, if at all. A fluid, whether thick or otherwise, which is opalescent and turbid, —in fact puriform,— shows that the cartilages have more or less yielded to disease, and therefore that repair is barely possible. A fluid thinner than synovia, clear, yellow, like the liquor of hydrocele, denotes that very little or no morbid change, ac- cording to the more or less watery cSiditioii, has taken place. (Banvell, Dis. of Joints, p. 198.)] The prognosis is therefore most favourable when the swelling is recent and small, and has been quick in its progress. On the contrary, when the tumour is of long standing and large, tlie efTused fluid thick and viscid, and the synovial mem- brane tiiickened, the removal of the fluid by absorption, and the restoration of the parts to their natural state, will be more slow and difficult. The worst case is that which is complicated with dis- ease of the synovial membrane, cartilages, and bones. [Dropsy of a joint is also very liable to a re- lapse, and, when long-continued, can produce organic changes of the joint, which build up new structures. Cases are related by Ne'laton, m which the synovial membrane has become rup- tured by the enormous accumulation of fluid which then was infiltrated in the surrounding tissues. This rare termination has been observed several times in the knee, either from accident, or spontaneously, by the excessive dilatation alone of the capsule. Bretonneau of Tours has observed rupture of the capsule of the elbow, the shoulder, and of the hip.] . The cure depends upon the absorption ot the effused fluid. And when the case is combined with acute and chronic inflammation of the syno- vial membrane, the treatment is the same as that already recommended for those particular forms of disease. When inflammation subsides, the ab- sorption of the fluid is sometimes altogether spon- taneous, and it may always be promoted by fric- tion, by rubbing the joint with camphorated mercurial ointment, the ointment of tincture of iodine, the soap liniment, containing 3j. of the tincture of iodine in every two oz. of it, and par- ticularly by the employment of blisters. Boyer Marjolin, and Velpeau recommend the application of small flying blisters around various parts of the joint, frequently repeated. After the use of blisters, the absorption of the effused fluid may be materially assisted with a moderately tight bandage. Among other effectual means of cure, we may enumerate frictions with flannel impregnated with the fumes of vinegar; elec- tricity ; and the exhibition of mercurial purgatives. When hydrops articuli occurs during the debility consequent on tvphoid and other fevers, the com- plaint can hardly be expected to get well before the patient regains some degree of st'ragth [Gimelle has recommended repeated dose o tartar emetic as especially efficient, and these 1 a^c been found serviceable in some cases by r^elato and other surgeons. Gimelle reports its efficacy twenty-eight cases, commencing with halt a grain every three hours, and increased by deg/e'^^'/" ' twelve grains are taken in the twenty-four hou s. {Mimoires do CAcadhmc de Mcdecinc, July, 1840.) This plan has met with more attention amongst German surgeons than in France or Eng- land. Mr. Barwell considers iodide of potassium, guaiacum, James's powder, ipecacuanha, and dia- phoretics as the chief means at our disposal. He would exclude, however, mercury and colchicum nearly, or altogether, from this list. If the absorption of the collected fluid be not brought abo'ut by the treatment recommended, and the quantity increase, so that great pain and in- ability to use the limb is produced, or if there be a foreign body in the cavity of the joint, the collected fluid must be so discharged as to prevent the entrance of the air. This is effected by a sub- cutaneous section of the synovial membrane as recommended bv Goyrand, and the greater part of the liquid infiltrates the areolar tissue and soon becomes absorbed. The safest plan of discharg- ing the fluid would be by means of punctures made with an instrument not much broader than a couching-needle, and then applying a cupping-glass, as suggested by Sir Benjamin Brodie, or the fluid might be allowed to escape subcutaneously, as m Govrand's plan. Simple puncture, however, of a dropsical joint rarely produces a radical cure, and thus resembles the same operation in hydrocele. The fluid re-collects more or less quickly, and sometimes severe symptoms and suppurative m- flammation ensue. Guerin punctured a joint on two occasions, and the results of the second ren- dered it necessary to perform amputation. To etfect a radical cure, injections have been employed within the dropsical joint after its liquid has been evacuated. This is certainly one of the most powerful means at our disposal, and is, says Barlow, even though it be not always curative, so very slightly dangerous, and so seldom followed by too violent an inflammation, that it may be used without fear. The first person who resorted to this mode of practice was Mr Gay, of the Cape Hospital, at the Cape of Good Hope, in 1,89. He injected a mixture of the diacetate of lead and rum into the knee-joint of a negress aflTected with hy- drarthrosis ; this produced a cure. In 1830 Jobert submiited three cases of hydrarthrosis of the knee to injections of barley-water and spirit wi h no positive results. Eleven years later (1841 Bonnet and Velpeau called attention to th. operation, and proposed to treat hydrarthrosis by ?nTections of iodine. The process they recom mended was exceedingly simple : the limb being p aced in a position of extension, the surgeon S'nges a smSl trocar and canula above the pa- te a either at the internal or external side of the See whilst the opposite side of the swelling is Jompried with thrhand so as to -der it more prominent. It is essential to push up a fold of the skin and to make the puncture beneath this, so thlt' the opening in the synovial membrane Zy afterwards be covered by the mteguments when the canula is withdrawn l'^,*^'^ flows through the canula it must be held vertica 1^, so as to prevent the introduction of air ; and it is not necessary to evacuate all of the synovial fluid contained in the articulation. The solu on of .tlb.'fluidi. .ii««d•"''i;»^f^»