166 LACHRYMAL ORGANS, DISEASES OF. effects of acute inflammation of the lachrymal sac itself. However, Scarpa admits the fact; and the question left is, whether he is right in assigning the morbid secretion from the inside of the eye- lids as the most common cause of the swelling, ulceration, &c. of the lachrj'mal sac ? That every puriform discharge from the eyelids is not followed by fistula lachrymalis, he allows, is un- questionable ; and this, he conceives, most pro- bably happens, because the lippitudo has not been entirely neglected, or because the secretion being less dense and viscid than usual, descends freely with the tears into the nose through the lachrymal canals, which are large and pervious. But, in the acute stage of purulent ophthalmia, he asserts, that the reason why the discharge is not conveyed into the sac is, that the inflammation and swelling actually close the puncta lachrymalia, and change their direction, so that both the puriform matter and the tears fall over the cheek and cannot de- scend into the sac. For my own part I am disposed to believe that, whether the disease begin in the eyelids, or else- where, generally both their lining and that of the sac and nasal duct are also more or less affected; and, consequently, though Scarpa's theory may not be in every respect satisfactory, nor at all ap- plicable to certain disorders of the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs, the practice to which his sentiments lead, will, in the generality of cases, which Beer denominates chronic hlennorrlicsa, be highly advantageous. The local treatment of chronic blennorrhoea does not diifer essentially from that of inflammation of the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs. But, every possible means must also be employed for improving the general health; for, otherwise, all local remedies will be unavailing. In scrofulous cases particular attention must be paid to diet and mode of living. In weakly persons the prepara- tions of iron will be highly beneficial; and, \yhen the disease is connected with disorder of the diges- tive organs the treatment recommended by Mr. Abernethy is that to which Dr. Mackenzie ex- presses a preference. The employment of Anel s syringe and probe is strongly reprobated. "I grant (says this author) that the application of certain substances to the mucous membrane af- fected is one of the most powerful means which we possess of correcting its disposition to chronic blennorrhoea. But he who believes that the best manner of applying these substances is to inject them with Anel's syringe, introduced through the puncta, is lamentably mistaken. He is, >n lact, closing his eves upon what he must know ot the functions of "the several parts of the lachrymal organs, and is doing that very thing which is cal- culated to prolong and exasperate the disease. Except at the time of a smart renewal ot the inflammation, the punta anfl canals during this disease, continue in the exercise of their lunctions. Whatever fluid is, therefore, dropped into the lacus lachrymarum, will be taken up by the puncta, conveyed through the canals, and applied to the whole internal surface of the sac. Even oint- ments, placed within reach of the puncta, wil be absorbed in the same manner. We ought then first of all to empty the sac by pressure and, it possible, through the nasal duct into the nose. Having placed the patient upon his buck, we drop into the lacus lachrymarum a small quantity of a ^ Aq. ros weak solution of corrosive sublimate. 5 iv. Hydrarg. bichlorid. gr. ss.—gr. j. Mucil. 3 j. Vini opii 'd ]■ M. After remaining for a quarter of an hour in that position, he ought to rise, but without wiping away any of the coUyrium which may remain. After another quarter of an hour, the eyelids are to be carefully dried, and a little of Janin's ophthalmic ointment applied with a camel-hair pencil to the caruncula lachrymalia and edges of the eyelids. All this is to be care- fully repeated twice a day." Professor Schmidt recommends the following collyrium :—1^ Aq. rosffi 3 vj. Acid, nitrici 9 j. Alcoholis 3 j. M. For the removal of the induration over the sac, gentle friction, with camphor, and mercurial oint- ment, is recommended. And, says Dr. Mackenzie, if the blennorrhoea depend upon chronic inflam- mation of the Meibomian glands, the diluted citrin ointment is to be applied every evening at bed-time. {On Diseases of the Lachrymal Organs, p. 43, 4-c.) In the first stage of what Scarpa terms the puriform discharge of the palpebrce, when the weeping is incipient, this autlior states that a cure may be effected without dividing the sac, or any other painful operation. His practice consists in restraining the immoderate secretion from the Meibomian glands and internal membrane of the palpebra;, and in cleansing the vIk lach- rymales through their whole extent by means of injections of warm water, rendered more active by the addition of a little spirit of wine, and thrown into the puncta lachrymalia every morning and evening: a measure which, as already stated, is disapproved of by Mackenzie, Schmidt, &c. (See also R. Middlcmore on Bis. of the Eye, vol. ii. p. 691.) Scarpa considers Janin's ophthalmic oint- ment, weakened with lard or fresh butter, as the best application for correcting the morbid secre- tion of the eyelids. A portion equal in size to a barley-corn is to be introduced upon the point of a blunt probe every morning and evening, between the eye and eyelids, near the' external angle, and the edges of the eyelids are to be smeared with it. The eye is then to be shut, and the eyelids gentlj- rubbed, so that the ointment may be distributed upon the whole of their internal surface. A com- press and bandage should bo applied, and tne eye- lids kept closed for two hours. At the end ot this time the eye should be washed with the zmc collyrium. When there are superficial ulcerations at the edges of the eyelids, Scarpa applies to them either Janin's ointment or the unguentum hydrarg. nitiat., and. in very obstinate cases, the argentum iiitratum itself. If the vessels of the conjunctiva are varicose, lie drops into the eye the tinctura thebaica. {Scai-jm, ed. 2, by Brings, c !•) The late Mr. Ware was earlier than Scarpa in pointing out the advantage of making applica- tions to the inside of the eyelids, for the_ reliet ot certain forms of disease usually classed with fistula lachrymalis. . , , " When an epiphora (says ho) is occasioned by an acrimonious discharge from the sebaceous glands on the edges of the eyelids, it must be evident that injections into the sac will be very insufhcient to accomplish a cure, because the sac is not tiie seat of the disorder. The remedies that are em- ployed must be directed, on the contrary, to he ciliary glands themselves, in order to correct the inorl.id secretion that is made by them; and, for this purpose, I do not know any application that