46 INFLAMMATION " In true j^out uric acM, In the form of urate of soda, is invariably present in the blood in abnormal quantities, both before and at the time of the fit." We must refer to Dr. Garrod's book for an ac- count of his exceedingly delicate and ingenious test for the presence of uric acid in the blood. His views are contained in the following pro- positions :— 1. Gouty inflammation is always accompanied with deposit of urate of soda in the inflamed part. 2. The deposit is crystalline and interstitial, and continues during many years, or for life. 3. The urate of soda is the cause and not the eflfect of the inflammation. 4. The inflammation of the gouty paroxysm tends to destroy the urate of soda in the blood of the inflamed part. This proposition is supported by the experiment of putting on two blisters, one on the inflamed part, the other at a distance, when the serum of the latter is found to contain uric acid, that of the former none. 5. The kidneys in gout appear to lose their pov.'er of excreting uric acid. 6. The impure state of the blood, arising princi- pally from the presence of urate of soda, is the probable cause of the disturbance which precedes the seizure, and of many of the anomalous sym ptoms of gouty persons. 7. The predisposing causes of gout are such as produce increased formation, or else retention of, uric acid in the system. 8. The exciting causes of a fit of the gout are such as diminish the alkalinity of the blood, or increase the formation, or check the elimination, of uric acid. 9. In true gout alone is there a deposit of urate of soda in the inflamed tissues. It will be evident that there are still manj points which Dr. Garrod's propositions fail to clear up : such, for example, as the determining cause of a fit of the gout ; and the reason why uric acid may be present in the blood, and may be deposited in the tissues without giving rise to acute inflam- mation in some cases but not in others. There is still something wanted to account for an attack of acute gout; and we cannot subscribe to the doc- trine that the feverishness of the gouty parox)-sm is a mere reaction resulting from the local injury, Yet the fact remains that in an attack of goutj inflammation the urate of soda in a crystalline form is discovered in the substance or cavities of the affected parts. Rhenmatio Inflammation has been supposed to be caused by the presence of lactic acid in abnor- mal quantity in the blood, as gouty by that of uric acid. Although this view is largely supported by the experiments of Richardson, it by no means passes unquestioned. In the excellent work in which Dr. Benjamin Ball sums up his observations on this subject {Du Rhumatiume Viscind, Pans, ]8C6) he has come to the conclusion that it is im- possible at present to make a general definition ol rheumatism which shall hold good. The lactic acid theory, he says, rests on two hypotheses: one that ammonia is the solvent of fibrin in the blood : the other that cardiac affections of apparently rheumatic character found in dogs into whose veins lactic acid has been injected have been caused by the lactic acid : the inference being that the lactic acid, by neutralising the ammonia, produces the abnormal depositions of fibrin. The former ot these hypotheses is already disproved, says Dr. Ball; the latter is shown to be untrustworthy by the fact that such cardiac afliections are extremely common in uninjected dogs. Rheumatism is a specific disorder, and cannot be created at will; although cold, damp, and malaria are the best established predisposing and exciting causes. Its favourite seat is the white fibrous or connective tissue, especially that of the lining and investing membrane of the heart and the liga- ments and tendons; but there is no structure or organ which is at all times exempt. The charac- teristics of acute rheumatism are great pain and sensitiveness, a skin sometimes hot and dry, but usually soon bathed in sour perspiration, tongue moist, but coated with whitish fur, and acid saliva. The bowels are costive, with dark and offensive stools; the urine scanty and high coloured, loaded with lithates; the pulse accelerated, fuH, and bounding; the appetite usually fails, and is replaced by thirst, though in some cases there is no variation ; nor, unless some complication be present is there any failure of the intellect. There is usually great sleeplessness, and the patient becomes irritable and fractious. The local sym- ptoms are: pains, first migratory, then fixed, usually in some of the large joints, which become hot and red, with great tenderness and pain. Effusion into the cellular tissue soon makes the part tense and shining: and sometimes there is effusion into the joint itself. This articular in- flammation shifts itself with great rapidity from one joint to another, and is usually more severe towards evening. It is very seldom followed by suppuration. Ligaments become stiff and short. The duration of the attack may be from a few- days to many weeks or even months. Rheumatism may affect an injured or wounded part, and may then be recognised by its not being confined to that part, and by the presence of the sym- ptoms above mentioned, especially in regard to the perspiration and urine and the want of sleep. Irrita- tion of the bladder and urethra, a not uncommon ac- companiment of rheumatism, especially towards the end of an acute attack, may be due, says M. Ball, either to the concentration and irritant character of the urine, or to a rheumatic inflammation of the walls of the bladder itself. The testicle also is sometimes afi^ected, the tunica vaginalis being the usual seat of the disturbance. Meningitis in the skull or the spinal canal is now and then a conse- quence of rheumatism: in the former case pro- ducing delirium, convulsions, coma, and death; in the latter, paraplegia. Other cerebral symptoms are insanity and (rarely) apoplexy. The post-mort, m signs are very slight and uncertain; and the eflFects manifested during life bear a great analogy to those of albuminuria; so that the diagnosis depends on the coexistence of the ordinary signs of rheuma- tism. The presence of cardiac and pulmonary com- plications is most often the precursor of cerebral symptoms, and doubtless some of the latter may be ascribed to the embolisms consequent upon the former. The spinal symptoms can be distinguished from those of simple inflammation of the cord and its membranes by the greater severity and persis- tence of the hyperresthesia, convulsions, and fever which characterise the latter. Chronic rheumatic inflammation usually aff ects the joints and the muscular tissues both external and internal. It has been supposed to attack the