UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OF. 085 condition ; by metritis nfter labour, disturbing the normal process of nutrition and absorption, and by the omission to suckle. This last is 1 believe, a frequent cause. Lactation acts as a stimulus to uterine contraction, and the esta- blishment of activity of function in the breast is essential to the proper rest of the ovaries and uterus. Another cause is retroflexion. In this state perfect involution cannot take place. This condition is best treated by maintaining the uterus in its normal position; by local application of iodine, sulphate of zinc, or nitrate of silver; by galvanic pessaries ; by internal administration of ergot (Kiwisch), iodine, and cinchona. Three conditions may exist in apparent proci- dentia uteri : 1. Hypertrophic elongation of the cervical portion of the uterus. This, of course, is attended by eversion of the vagina, the fuudal portion of which is drawn down by the advancing 03 uteri. This is diai^nosed by the introduction of the uterine sound. This will generally penetrate live inches before its point is arrested at the fundus uteri; and continuing to carry the sound gently on, a partial re-inversion or reduction is observed. 2. The case may be one of inversion of the vagina, the pouch formed by which, projecting somewhat in the form of a sausage, contains the uterus at the bottom, perhaps, of normal size, or, as in aged wo- men, atrophied. 3. There is equally inversion of the vagina, the pouch outside the vulva containing the uterus retroHexed or doubled up. In the two latter cases the diagnosis can be established by the fingers, which, compressing the tumor, can deter- mine the exact size, position, and form of the uterus ; and further by the introduction of the sound. S. Cooper has cited cases of complete procidentia of the travid uterus. I have seen a case of the kind ni the practice of the Royal Maternity Cha- nty. In this condition it is obvious that, to expel the child, the uterus can derive no help from the diaphragm or abdominal muscles. If the whole mass can be easily returned within the pelvis, this will be the better course ; if not, it will be wise to dilate the cervix uteri artificially by means of my water-dilators, and to deliver by forceps or turning, taking care that the uterus be well sup- ported by the hands of an assistant during the delivery. When this is eiTected, the uterus must be returned, and a firm perineal bandage be applied to prevent it from falling through again. Occasionally, procidentia of the gravid uterus is simulated by pregnancy with hyper- trophic elongation of the cervix. When labour conies on, the child passes along the lengthened canal of the cervix, and is arrested at the os exter- num uteri, which is outside the vulva. The os externum, being thus enormously distended, has been taken for the uterus itself, the body of which is really in its normal position. In aged women, when the functions of ovulation and pregnancy are at an end, the uterus undergoes atruj>ky, losing bulk, increasing in hardness. At the same time, the cellular tissue of the pelvis loses much of its fat, the vessels, having less call upon them for supplies, bring less blood. The vagina too partakes in the atrophic process. The general result is, a small uterus imbedded in shrunken tissues. The padding is gone ; the uterus falls. Especially isthis the case if the woman leads a laborious life. Under great exertion in the standing or kneeling postures, the ill-supported utcnis easily falls through the pelvis. Hence the prolapsus and procidentia of senility being mainly the consequence of atrophy, nothing short of me- chanical support by suitable pessaries is likely to be of much service. The uterus occasionally undergoes a kind of rapid atrophy after child-birth. (Simpson, Chiari.) Of this I have seen several marked examples. Premature climacteric sets in. In some cases, atrophy is only apparent ; the real condition being defective development. This is often associated with, perhaps consequent upon, atrophy of the ovaries. The changes induced in the organs concerned iu prolapsus are well described by Scanzoni :—The vagina, uterus and broad ligaments, bladder and rectum, being removed from the pelvis, we are struck with the size of the uterus, and with the expansion, relaxation, and want of elasticity of the vagina. The vagina has lost its rugae; its surface is usually smooth, often livid, and if the prolapsus has lasted long in an extreme degree, it is very dry, covered with a thick layer of pavement epithelium, which gives to the mucous membrane the aspect of epidermis.. The vaginal portion, commonly hypertrophied, often indurated, but sometimes very swollen and softened, is of bluish- red or slate grey colour; around the orifice it is deprived of epithelium, and covered with erosions and ulcerations. Often, after a long persistence of the disease, a true inversion of the cervix is produced ; the orifice begins by being sensibly dilated ; its borders form a circle an inch or more in diiimeter, through which the cervix is inverted, so that the mucous membrane peculiar to the neck, covered by its vitreous secretion, is seen. A section of the uterus displays considerable hypertrophy with engorgement. The cavity is alwaj's much dilated, especially lengthwise ; and the mucous membrane shows chronic catarrh. The treatment will of course be governed by the particular characters of the case in question. Wherever hypertrophy, engorgement, inflamma- tion co-exist, these conditions must be dealt with. In many cases the prolapsus disappears when the cervix uteri is restored to health. When this is insufficient, mechanical support will often be useful. It is even important to bear in mind that keepinif the uterus at its proper level is a very effectual factor in curing inflammation and hypertrophy of the cervix. This is due, I believe, to the relief which the vessels supplying the organ obtain when maintained in their natural relations. When the cervix is sunk low in the pelvis, the vessels are dragged down, become elongated, varicose; they form large loops, with a depending curve liable to angulation by compression ; the circulation through them is necessarily sluggish, and seeks relief by serous effusions into the tissues, thus increasing hypertrophy and impeding curative processes. A considerable degree of (edema is a frequent complication of the advanced degrees of prolapsus with inversion of the vagina. To such an extent is this the case, that occasionally the bulk of the protruding mass becomes so great that there ia great difficulty in returning it into the pelvis. To facilitate this step it is necessnry first to get rid of the oedema. This is done by applying straps of plaster around the mass so as to compress and support the tissues. After two or three days, th