1024 WOUNDS. these fall for short of the terrible suffering occa- sionally endured in the ends of stumps. Steam- ing with narcotic vapours, careful protection from vicissitudes of temperature, shampooing, the use of lotions containing gentle stimulants or nar- cotics, and the employment of those internal remedies which are found useful in neuralgia (of which such painful impressions are frequently examples), constitute the most useful methods of treatment for the slighter cases. For painful stumps, if no^ explanation can be found, on a careful ex- amination of the divided ends'of the nerves — no adhesion to bone or skin, no undue pressure from any source—the same plan must be pursued ; but if the exact seat of the affected nerve can be de- termined, or its morbid adhesion discovered, then it can be subcutaneously divided for temporary relief, or a portion of it excised to obtain a more permanent good. As a remedy for the persistent weakness, or un- sightliness, or deformity of cicatrices, or the evils they occasion, it is occasionally the best practice to remove them altogether, and either seek by care to direct and control to a better result the new scar, or, what is better, to repair the breach by a plastic operation. Occasionally, the hiatus is best filled up by carefully dissecting up the flaps on either side and sliding them together, while at other times by transplantation a better covering is obtained. Bands may be divided at several points, and the tissues then stretched, or the most contracted portion may be wholly removed, while the less injurious part of the cicatrix is not inter- fered with. In extreme cases of deformity and embarrassment, the patient is sometimes glad to get rid of the part altogether, if it can be re- moved by amputation. Cicatrices are liable to various affections, besides those already alluded to. Horny and warty growths, fibrous and cancerous tumours, bony concretions, &c., occasionally form in them. The weak vitality of cicatricial matter will render it liable to the development of any latent consti- tutional disease. Epithelial cancer presents itself in scars as a coarse warty condition. It is in old rough scars which have been frequently ex- posed to irritation that such disease is most apt to appear. Mr. Cajsar Hawkins has ably described the warty affection of cicatrices. After the re- moval of primary cancer, the recurrent growths frequently show themselves in the scar, and from the paucity of the soft parts, we are often in such cases unable effectually to interfere. If c incer were to appear in the cicatrix of a limb, amputation at a point well above the sent of the disease might get rid of it ; and in other parts of the body, if the case be fitting, caustic may be decidedly used to destroy the growth. Cheloid is a most curious, rare, and ill under- etood affection which may attack old scars. The cicatrix hypertrophies gets thick, and enlarges in all its diameters, so as to overhang the limits of the former scar. It increases slowly and gets prominent. It is occasionally painless, but more frequently it becomes the seat of burning, stinging, lancinating, or distressingly itchy sensations. The surface is usually smooth, and in its early stage permeated by small branching vessels, which may give it a brighter colour than the surrounding skin, or, later in its history, its surface may be dis- tinguished by its pale or white colour. In inti- mate structure, cheloid is composed of firm, hard, compact tissue, consisting of grey closely-woven fibres, mixed with cells. In their clinical his- tory such cases often vary much. Frequently no explanation whatever can be given of their cause. They are evidently constitutional in their origin, and being so, admit of but little local treatment. They frequently cease spontaneously to enlarge, may remain long stationary, and may contract and disappear. They do not often ulcerate and prove destructive. If removed by the knife, they usually recur, and the new growth is often more trouble- some and active than the original one. In the hope of cheloid being spontaneously arrested or re- moved, it is well to delay all interference with it as long as possible, but if it be growing very actively, we may try by counter-irritiUion and pressure to moderate or check its advance. Blisters of cantharides, or painting with strong iodine, or using iodine and mercury in combination, has given the best results ; but when the growth is quiescent, simple protection by collodion should alone be employed. To remove cheloid by caustic or the knife is very rarely successful, yet patients occasionally press for such a step, in order to escape, even temporarily, from the pain and an- noyance it occasions. If excised, the necessary incisions must keep well free of the limits of the disease, and an attempt should be made, by the sub- stitution of healthy textures from the neighbour- hood, to close up the gap as quickly as possible. The internal administration of iodine, arsenic, and mercury, separately and in combination, has been recommended. The General Treatment of Wounds. Constitutional Treatment.—This comprehends all those measures which are calculated to improve and sustain the patient's strength and health,and enable his system to restore the injured tissues to their integrity. Rest of mind and body greatly con- duces to recovery, and helps to ward off complica- tions. All excitement of mind, be it agreeable or the reverse, is hurtful to the happy cicatrisation of wounds, hence the advantage of a serene and equable temperament to a wounded man. Agree- able, but not too engrossing mental occupation is always beneficial, and will in most cases prove a useful aid to the other means of treatment. A moderately warm and fine atmosphere is always of essential consequence in the sick-room. So long as it is of a good temperature, and free of draughts, the more abundant tiie supply of air to wounded persons is the better. No more powerful preservative against the most serious of the com- plications which attend wounds can exist than in the free supply of atmospheric air. The close, ili- ventilated houses of the poor, and the loaded miasmatic atmosphere of a large and crowded hospital, are far behind the pure uncontammated air of a dry sunny country house, as aiding con- valescence from injury. The overcrowding and indifferent hygiene of military hospitals durmg a campaign have been long recognised as the proline sources of the frightful mortality which lias at times signalised warfare. The most scrujunoiis cleanliness in the sick room, both as regards t le person and the surroundings of the patient, is im- perative. The body clothes and the bed Iniens should be frequently changed, both t« " cleanliness, and also for the grateful i-efreshmei i it produces. Baths too, bi.th local and general,