allowing the air to escape. A stronger proof, that it is not the admission of air, which makes parts inflame, is, that the cells in the soft parts of birds, and many of the cells and canals of their bones, communicating with the lungs, and always con- taining air, never inflame; but if these cells are exposed in an unnatural way, the stimulus of im- perfection is given, these cavities then inflame, and their surfaces either form adhesions together, or produce pus. (^Hunter.) When the interior of an abscess is examined, the cavity, which contained the matter, is observed to be lined with a smooth, membrane-like substance, which is of a whitish ash colour, and, in a recent case, has a strong resemblance to coagulating lymph. In examples of longer standing, and in old fistulas, it assumes an appearance very much like that of mucous membrane, from which it dif- fers, liowever, in containing no follicles; though, as Andral remarks, there are some mucous mem- branes in which the presence of follicles has not yet been demonstrated. (A^iat. Pathol, t, i. p. 257.) Nor, as this distinguished pathologist has ex- plained, are these cysts, resembling mucous mem- branes, only met with in abscesses of the loose cellular tissue. He has met with similar produc- tions in the parenchyma of different organs, as that of the liver (see Clin. Med. t. iv.), and once in tlie hemispheres of the brain, two cavities which were filled with pus, and united by a fistulous track, the cavities and the latter passage being all invested by a thin, greyish red smooth membrane, readily separable from the subjacent texture. (See Andral, Anat. Pathol, t. i. p. 263.) The membrane-like investment of an abscess has been termed its sac or cyst. It seems in general to adhere by a vascular union to the surrounding cellular membrane, which is itself likewise denser in texture, and more vascular, than in the natural state {Thomson's Lectures, p. 310), its cells being closed by coagulating lymph, effused, in conse- quence of that species of inflammation which Mr. Hunter termed the adhesive. Thus, by the for- mation of a cyst, and the effusion of coagulating lymph in the cellular tissue around the abscess, the collection of matter is bounded, and cannot be- come diffused, as it otherwise would do, in the communicating cavities of the cellular texture, like the water in oedema. Something like this diffusion of pus seems to occur in phlegmonous erysipelas. " But, in this case (says Professor Thomson), the vitality of greater or less portions of the cellular substance is destroyed ; the deadened portions are converted into dirty, whitish, ash-coloured sloughs; and it becomes extremely difficult to say, whether any part of the pus, contained in the deadened cellular membrane, has been formed in the cells in which it is contained, or has been absorbed into these cells, after being separated from the parietes of the cavities containing the sloughs themselves." [Lec- tures, S(c. p. 310.) There can be no doubt, that, after an abscess has received a membranous lining, or cyst, the secretion of pus is continued from the surface of the latter part entirely, as well as whatever degree of absorption of the same fluid happens to be goini' on. In fact, the cysts must be both secreting and absorbing surfaces. The circumstances which leave no doubt of this point, are the frequent sudden, or gradual removal of very large manifest SUPPURATION. - 63P collections of matter; the continual changes occur- ring in the quantity and consistence of the pus, and the speedy filling of the cavity with purulent matter again, after the first contents of the abscess have been discharged. The facts and opinions adduced by Dr. Cars- well, in relation to the long disputed question, whether suppuration ever happens nnpreceded by inflammation, I have already noticed. Professor John Thomson believes, that the affirmative on this point was first suggested by De Haen, of Vienna; but he thinks that much of the difference of sentiment in this matter has proceeded from the vague "notions entertained with regard to the symptoms which necessarily characterise the state of inflammation, and also with regard to the pro- perties, by which pus is to be distinguished from other animal fluids. Accordingl}', in almost all the examples which De Haen has adduced to prove the formation of pus, without the previous existence of inflammation, he has himself occasion to remark the exudation of coagulating lymph, and the existence of preternatural adhesions; pheno- mena which we now know are produced by that state which Mr. Hunter has denominated adhe- sive inflammation." But De Haen uses the term inflammation to express that state which we de- nominate ulceration, or ulcerative absorption; for, in speaking of the cases of suppuration which he has adduced, he observes, that " in many of them no previous loss or consumption of substance could be perceived." An observation, similar to this, was made about the same time, or perhaps a little earlier, by Dr. W. Hunter, and an account given of it in the second vol. of the London Medical Ob- sei-vations and Inquiries. " Mr. Hunter, though he endeavours to establish it as an invariable fact, that no suppuration takes place, which is not preceded by inflammation, is of opinion, that collections of what he terms extra- neous matter, something like pus, may form in various parts of the body, without the previous existence of inflammation in the parts in which it is formed; and accordingly you will find, at pnge 300 of his Treatise on Inflammation, a chapter entitled ' Of Collections of Matter without Inflam- mation.' " Professor Thomson doubts, however, " whether these collections of matter, said to be formed with- out inflammation, would not have been more pro- perly denominated scrofulous abscesses, or chronic suppurations. I am disposed to believe (says he) that, in whatever texture, or organ of the bodv scrofula manifests itself, there inflammation will be found to exist. The phenomena, it is true of inflammation, both local and constitutional 'are modified by the existence of the scrofulous diathe- sis; but they are, I believe, ahvavs present in such a degree as to justify us in giving to them the name of inllamnialion, and in classing most, if not all local scrofulous affections, among inflam- matory diseases. When the indolent swelliiiRs of which Mr. Hunter speaks, occur near to the surface of the body, tliat part feels warmer than usual, as may be felt in white-swellings of the joints. The swelling also is either preceded or accompanied with some degree of pain, though when tlie affection is internal, the patient may not always bo very accurate with regard to the precise state of this pain. When cut into, the parts af- fected with scrofulous swellings are always found