426 OXALiEMIA. oxalate of lime wliicli protects the system from the more violent pernicious effects of the oxalic acid. Oxalic acid has been detected in the blood by Dr. Garroil in a case of albuminuria ; also by Dr. Schmidt, who considers that it exists as a triple soluble salt, a combination of oxalic acid, lime, and albumen. Oxalates are frequently found in the urine of persons recovering from severe diseases, as cholera. ( WalsJie's Monlhly Journal of ilie Medical Sciences, January 1849.) They co- exist with various skin diseases, and have been ob- served especially in patients affected with boils and carbuncles. They often also coincide with disease of the kidneys, but whether this is pro- duced by the irritation of large quantities passing through the organ, as appears to be shown by the experiments of Wcihler, is still uncertain. During various acute and chronic diseases it makes its appearance transitorily, and is of very little im- portance. After the use of articles rich in oxalic acid, of sparkling wines and of strong beer, or the medical injection of the acid or its compounds, a tempo- rary deposit of oxalate of lime takes place in the urine, and the long-continued use of such food has an injurious tendency. Sediments of oxalate of lime in the urine occur very frequently in chronic diseases; in fact it was laid down by Dr Maclagan that in such cases a total absence of the salt is rather the exception than the rule. They occur also in diseases attended with disturbed respiration or disturbed digestion; also in anaemic and chlorotic cases, in convalescence from severe ill- nesses, as a result of frequent pregnancies, pro- tracted lactation, spermatorrhsea, and excess of venery, and also in diseases dependent on malaria, all referable to an altered condition of the blood, in which the respiratory changes are not duly maintained. In the same way also diseases of the brain and nerves lead to oxaluria, and in diseases especially in which there is an impairment both of respiration and digestion. It is observed in vio- lent attacks of apoplexy, melancholia, and mania. It is never foimd in the first stages of typhus, in acute rheumatism, certain stages of tuberculosis, intestinal catarrh, dysentery, pharyngitis, and many cutaneous diseases, and it occurs only transiently or under particular circumstances in puerperal conditions, morbus Brightii, disease of the heart, affections of the liver, epilepsy, various diseases occurring in paroxysms, paralysis with debility, and perhaps diabetes. {Studies of Oxaluria, by Dr. Moritz Swaber, of Pragal. Dub- lin Med. Journal, vol. xxxii. p. 229, I860.) Oxalate of lime occurs in the urine under a great variety of circumstances. Dr. J. A. Easton detected it in large quantities in cases of neuralgia generally and of sciatica in particular {Glangoiv Med. Journal, vol. vi. p. 258), and he refers it to the oxidation of uric acid in a gouty condition of the blood, in proof of which Wcihler and Frerichs are quoted as having found that the introduction of uric acid into the organism was followed by the presence of oxalate of lime in the urine, and Golding Bird, who witnessed the production of the same salt from the decomposition of uric acid in blood serum. The oxalate in some patients also is occa- sionally associated with or replaced by uric acid and urates, and the neuralgia in these cases and the pain in many cases of heniicrania are re- garded by Dr. Easton as manifestations of the materies morbi of gout thrown out from the blood in the sheath of some particular nerve. There are two points of view in which oxalae- mia has to be regarded by the surgeon. 1. As a disease of the blood. 2. As the origin of a renal or vesical concretion of oxalate of lime or the mulberry calculus. 1. Oxalffimia is associated with symptoms of dyspepsia, of nervous erythism, and of morbid sensibility, and it is attended with a train of symp- toms referable to the heart and nervous system. 2. The appearance of the oxalates as a urinarj- sediment, and as the immediate exciting cause of a fit of the gravel, or as a concretion, indicates that oxalic acid is being produced in an abnormal manner in the organism, and that the blood is or has been affected with oxalaemia. The elective affinity of the kidneys for this salt unduly de- veloped or introduced into the blood may protect the system from any other consequence except the formation of a calculus, but this is often a very serious result. (Vide art. Urinary Calculi.) To determine the existence of oxalic acid in the urine, according to Dr. Swaber {lib. cit.), is of con- siderable value in prognosis, in reference to the violence and danger of pneumonia. The symptoms associated with the occurrence of oxalate of lime in the urine are described as follows by Dr. Begbie. They occur chiefly in patients of the sanguine or melancholic temperament, in the prime of life, and in males of the upper classes, unaccus- tomed to laborious exertion,who indulge in theluxu- ries of the table. Theyoccur less frequently in females. Indigestion from its mildest to some of its most aggravated forms, often with no disorder apparently but the uneasiness arising therefrom, with languid assimilation. There is a sense of load at the pit of the stomach, with flatulency and palpitation some hours after a meal ; often sufferings of a more severe kind influencing very seriously the nervous system and threatening the mental condi- tion. The patient is usually peevish, sensitive, and irritable, or dull, desponding, and melancholic ; at times frill of gloomy fears and dark forebodings; painfully distrustful of his own powers; suspicious of some lurking disease, especially pointing to consumption or disease of the heart. From the dread of some threatened evil he is not infrequently hurried to the brink of mental derangement. In the milder forms there is an anxious countenance and the aspect of ill health, a loaded tongue, a dry skin, and an irritable pulse. In the more con- firmed, a dingy, dark complexion, perhaps a red, tender, and occasionally quivering tongue, emacia- tion, falling off of thehair, eruptions of a scaly kind, sometimes boils or carbuncles, pain of a dull but deep-seated kind in the back and loins, haemorrhage from the bowels or bladder, incontinence of urine, and complete prostration of the virile powers. The progress of these symptoms may be varied and slow; "under diet and regimen with pure coimtry air it may be cliecked and controlled ; under medicine it may be entirely arrested ; but if netrlected or maltreated, the malady will finally subiect its victim to the sulferiiigs and penis of stone in the kidney or bladder, or the st.II more serious consequence of malignant organic disease (Edinb. Monthly Journal, vol. ix. p. io*-/-; Dr. Be?bie refers these symptoms to a pmson generated during the process of d.gestion „nd assimilation," and carried into the blood through