898 VAOTNA, IMPERFORATE others, showing the separation into clot and serum. Menstruation invariably leads to an accession of pain in the tumor, and to increase of size and tension. The tumor usually forms a communication at its lower part with the vagina or rectum, a process of absorption taking place through the walls of these organs. The discharge of the contents brings about quick improvement. The blood-cyst may be to a great extent ab- sorbed, leaving a seious cyst. Inflammation and segregation ensuing, it may be transformed into a purulent cyst. When the cyst has been opened, either spontaneously or arti- ficially, diarrhoea or dysentery is apt to follow, owing to the extension of inflammation to the rectum. The return to health is very gradual. HEemorrhagic fibro-peritonitis is less grave than other forms. The blood is less irritating, and the attendant conditions are freer from blood infec tion. Organisation of false membranes may remain, and form adhesions with uterus, tubes, or ovaries, displacing these organs. _ If evacuation is not effected, hectic becomes more pronounced. If the uterus succeeds in ter- minating the retention, the symptoms gradually disappear. But if, on the contrary, it fails, the in- flammation runs its course, and pus is formed in the broad ligament, and fluctuation may be felt in vagina or rectum. Chills and general uneasiness continue until either a free incision is made into the fluctuating part, or nature opens the abscess. Health is permanent or otherwise according to the success of the treatment directed to the removal of obstruction of the cervix uteri. As to the treatment of the consecutive hemato- cele there is a difference of opinion whether the blood cyst should be punctured or not. Nelaton advised puncture, Bernutz strongly condemns it. Now that it is known that the effubion is in the peritoneal cavit}', the reason against the practice is strengthened. Death has in many cases followed puncture. I share Bernutz's opinion. Recovery may, as a rule, be expected under a judicious sys- tem of rest. In a case under my care at bt. Iho- mas's, Professor White of Buffalo advised me to puncture and clear out the blood telling me he had so treated cases successfully. I did not punc- ture, but the patient recovered well, and this is my common experience. It may, however be de- sirable to puncture where hectic is very prolonged, and where symptoms of septicemia supervene. Treatment.—In the case of apparent absence ot the vagina, there are three methods of proceeding. The first is to cut a channel through the tissues between the urethra and rectum up to the uterus. The second, adopted by Fletcher {Laneet IBiO- 1831), by Amussat {Gazette mcdicale, 1865), is to tear or stretch out a canal by the lingers, or other dilating instruments. The third may be called the mixed method, making use both of cutting and dUatina. The last combines the advantages of the two preceding, and at the same time reduces their disadvantages. Whatever mode is adopted, the patient is placed iu lithotomy position; the fpace between the urethra and rectum is carefully ex- amined; the index of the left hand is passed into tlie rectum; the sound is passed into the bladder, and feeling for it by the finger in the rectum, the amount of tissue available for burrowing, and the position of the uterine tumor are determined. Then the sound is held up under the pelvic arch, whilst the finger carries the rectum away in the opposite direction. A transverse incision is made in front of the anus through the skin; then, cautiously nicking with the knife or scissors, and stretching out with the fingers, working between the finger in rectum and tlie sound in urethra as guides, a canal is opened to the uterus. If the os is felt, a sound should be tried first ; if the os he impervious, it may be perforated by .a trocar, or by the knife. It may be desirable to carry out the proceeding at different siuings. It will generally be necessary to place a tent or bougie in the ute- rine opening, to prevent closure ; and the artificial vagina must be preserved by plugging with lint steeped in carbolic acid, glycerine, or the glass or vulcanite dilator of Sim. When the closure of the vagina is the result of cicatrices from slough, the same cautious mode of dissecting and dilating may be adopted. Where the vaginal canal exists, and there is closure of the vulva by agglutination .of the nymphfe, or from imperforate hymen, the prepon- . derance of testimony is in favour of making an opening into the vagina. The distended fluctuat- ing membrane indicates the spot. This is pierced by a trocar, or better by a knife. A contention exists as to whether the opening should be made free or very small. If the accumulated blood escapes very rapidly, there is risk of sudden contraction of the uterus, stretching, perhaps rending of the Fal- lopian tubes, especially if tiiey had contracted ad- hesions, and the entry of air into the uterus lead- ing to decomposition and septiccemia. It is held that these dangers are lessened by letting the blood ooze out very slowly. The fact is, that death has followed both methods, and we are, per- paps, not yet in possession of certain means of ren- heringeven the slightest puncture perfectly safe, i believe the opening should be sufficiently large to admit of easy evacuation; and that to prevent the entry of air a compress should be applied on the uterus, and sustained by moderate pressure with a band.ige. In some cases injections of warm water have been used to wash out the uterus. It is doubtful whether this is good practice at the time of the operation ; but if there should arise decom- position, the gentle injection of a weak solution ot permanganate of potash, or carbolic acid, \wu oe desirable. After a few days it is proper to enlarge the opening in the vulva, by removing « ^'""'"^ piece of the membrane, so as to fit the parts for all their functions. Absolute rest m bed for some days is a wise precaution, not^'itH^'^-'^'JlS' tories of cases where impunity has f-'^^^^f neglect. Symptoms of Peritouit.s >nd.ca l^g ret"uned fluid has suddenly escaped mto the per tcneal cavity, have set in on the t'.rd or fou^ day. The iontraction of the uterus le'^^'"? "'S catastrophe does not take place ,f tlie operation. The greatest care, theretore, necessary for some days alterwards. In cases of occlusion of the tion of menses, the indication is to >"«ke pas^«, into the cavity. This may be done lo « '^^^^^ by a bistoury. The fluid evacuated, it 's nec y to introduce a tent-a metallic one .s bc^'.^^ J^^^^ serve tlie opening, which would <> "e ■ and lead to a repe.ition of the much.et.