70 INFLAMMATION. of epithelium and connective, tissue alone, as Vir- chow tiuiglit), " is capable of inflaming and suppu- rating." Beale again denies tliose doctrines ol irritalion whicli lie at tlie root of Virchow's doc- trine. " A particle of sand," he says, " falling upon the conjunctiva is followed by increased action, as shown by the more rapid grovyth of cells, and the increased vascularity. It is said the particle of sand has excited these changes ; it is an irritant." But this and other irritants may alter the whole physical conditions of the part, and, in consequence of these physical changes, pabulum may flow towards the living matter more readily than before. If this be so, the living matter is not excited to live faster, but, in consequence of more pabulum having access to it, more matter becomes living within the same period of time. The influence of the so-called excita7it is after all of a passive character. It does not excite dormant energies or evoke vital actions, but by it some of the restrictions under which it lived before are removed." {Lecture on Inflammation, Med. Times and Gaz., 1865, vol. ii. p. 593.) Beale further ridicules the doctrine of irritation, ana the power of sympathy which uninjured cells are supposed to possess for an injured neighbour, and resolves the action of an irritant into some physical or chemical alteration, which " permits the pabulum to pass more freely to the germinal matter." Beale la3's great stress upon restriction to the flow of nourish- ment, as tending to the permanence of the " elemen- tary part." Nothing is more mischievous than to make " living too easy." He repudiates the idea that inflammation is a chemical process, or at- tended with increased oxydation. On the con- trary, he affirms that " so far from inflammation depending upon increased oxydation, it would seem that the oxvdising process is greatly dimi- nished in intensity or altogether stopped. In a vascular tissue in a state of inflammation the cir- culation is very slow, or is actually suspended. I-Iow then can there be increased oxydation.-' If we cotild increase oxydation at the seat of in- flammation, we should diminish the activity of the inflammatory process." "Combustion js an in- tense chemical action, inflammation an intense vital action. Oxydation is opposed to vital action. It must be noted that Beale is a staunch upholder of the doctrine of a Vital Force, and restricts the term vital to such actions in the animal economy as are not physical or chemical. Conversely, he regards as chemical and physical many changes which are usually regarded as vital. For instance, the action of oxygen on the red corpuscles, i lie jrrowth of liver cells is vital, their conversion mto bile by oxydation is chemical ; the collecliou, conversion,'and assimilation of nourishment, the growth, movements and functions of germinal matter, the cycle of life and generation which no chemistry can explain, are regarded as vital Evolution of heat he believes to accompany tUe rapid development of germinal matter. Beale is quite at one with Goods.r and Addison as to the destructive powers of .active germinal matter. So soon as the germinal matter ot an epithelial cell is set growing by a preternatural afflux of pabulum, it begins to devour the formed material " which surrounds it, and hence acquires the power of growing and proliferating with less .. ?. „ f . ; ;,-,-,r,nrf 111 the feed upon, and render harmless dead and diseased matters in the focus of .an inflammation which otherwise might decompose, and infect and kill the neighbouring parts, and pass into the circulation. He states his belief (1866, Lecture quoted above) that when the capillaries are "fully distended with blood, particles of living germinal matter, probably derived from the white blood corpuscles, may make their way through the walls with some of the serum .and grow and multiply in their new position. Thus an "exudation" will, ip many instances, contain particles of living growing mat- ter, and these particles absorb nutrient matter, iind some become those spherical gr.anular cells which are often seen external to the vessels in inflamma- tion." Each particle grows by imbibition, not by aggregation or union as Hughes Bennett thinks, and then divides and subdivides. Particles of germinal matter that have gro^vn in a diseasedly rapid manner are capable of pre- serving their vitality for considerable periods, of being transplanted from one bndy to another, there settling on some mucous surface, growing, penetrating the blood-vessels, multiplying enor- mously, blocking up small capillaries, and produc- ing the local congestions and inflammations which characterise contagious fevers. {Beale, on Cattle Plague, 'ird Report of Commissioners, Blue Book No. 13,533, 1866.) . " Contiguous sympathy " and " irritation .are, in Beale's system, not the mere reactions of tissue as such, but the effect of nerve force. " Pale nucleated nerve-fibres" are distributed to all the capillary vessels, and to the tissue between the vessels. "These fibres, close to the capillary vessels, and in tissues destitute of capillaries, are not concerned in special sensation, but .are the afferent fibres to the nerve-centres in which the efferent fibres distributed to the small arteries take their rise. I believe that these fibres do exert an influence upon the process of nutrition, but only by their indirect influence upon the nerves which govern the calibre of the small arteries transmitting the nutrient fluid to the capillaries nearest to the tissues in which they r.imify. Beale next goes on to describe what he calls a self-adjusting system, whereby the tissues of ani- mals, subjected to varying external circumstances, are supplied with varying quantities of pabulum, according to their needs. " It is obvious that the afferent fibres above referred to must be affected by any alterations occurring in the flow of pahu- Imn to the tissue in their immediate neighbour- hood. Suppose, for example, the quantity of nutrient pabulum flowing to the cells of a tissue to which nerve-fibres of this cl.assarc distributed to be unusually great, these nerve-fibres would neces- sarily be co'mpiessed by the swelling of the sur- roundimi elementary parts which .absorb the pabu- lum, f ills pressure would, in the first instance, so affect the nervous centre as to cause a change m the condition of the eff"erent nerve-fibres, whicli would induce contraction of the small arteries transmitting the blood to the capillary vessels, and thus the quantity of pabulum sent to tins locality would be immediately reduced. 1 he nuclei of the nerve-fibres would also participate in the increased absorption of nutrient matter, but precisely in what restriction. He finds a Weogical destructive power of living pus corpuscles, for they conditions which