• detained, so thnt they become inspissnted and foetid, and may be seen in some cases and picked out in the fonii of small yellow particles of the size of pins' heads, or larger. They are of the consistency of sebaceous matter, which they much resemble, and are extremely foetid when crushed beween the fingers. This detained and irritating secretion can hardly fail to keep up considerable irritation, and to form one of the principal causes of the iiypertrophy of the gland. Superficial ulcerations also are frequently noticed, occupying chieHy the prominences of the irregular surface of the en- larged tonsil. The degree of enlargement varies greatly in different cases, so also does the form the tonsils assume under the disease. In some cases they are almost globular, at other times oval, with the long diameter from above downwards. The enlargement varies from double to three times the size of the natural strucfrre, from the size of a filbert to the size of the largest walnut. In the extreme cases the tonsils of opposite sides are habitually in contact with each other, and their form is flattened and variously modified by pressure. ■ Their consistency is also entirely changed; they be- come as indurated and resisting as a scirrhous tumor by the pressure thus occasioned. In such cases the deglutition, the voice, the respiration, and even the circulation, are considerably interfered with. On looking into the mouth and examining the back of the fauces, it is difficult to understand how the important structures here situated can perform their critical functions of protecting the entrances to the air-passages and to the alimentary canal during respiration and deglutition. Doubtless the parts have by degrees become, as it were, educated to their duties under the difficulties and obstacles gradually presented, which, if suddenly produced, would fatally have interfered with their perform- ance and rendered existence almost impossible. This disease is common in strumous children, and also in early adult age, and appears to attack per- sons prone to affections of the mucous membranes generally, such as preternatural vascularity and turgescence of these structures and their follicles. The symptoms of enlarged tonsils are, as might be expected, comprised, first in impediments to respiration, as indicated in children by habitual audible breathing with the mouth open, and by almost constant stertor and occasionally arrested breathing during sleep, the patient, in consequence, waking suddenly in alarm and struggling for breath. The voice also becomes thick, nasal, and indistinct, and, in adults, interferes much with the intonation of the voice in singing, which in young adult females is greatly complained of. The en- larged tonsils and the thickening of the adjacent mucous membrane encroach in many cases on the Kustachian tube and cause considerable deaf- ness. As regards deglutition, the principal incon- venience arises from the want of power in extreme CMsea to adjust the soft palate, so as to protect the P"sterior nares and prevent fluids passing into the nostrils. The circulation is also somewhat inter- fered with in the head and neck from venous con- gestion, depending upon the impeded respiration. The treatment of hypertrophy of the tonsils greatly depends upnn the extent tn which the enlargement has advanced, and on the cnnseq\icnt disturliance of the functions of articulation, of respiration, and of deglutition. Jn the nnijority of cases the tonsils are nifcctedi n a moderate degree, TONSILS. and although evidently enlarged, produce but slight inconvenience. In this condition either no treat- ment at all, or that which is merely palliative, should be had recourse to. Attention to the general health, and the constitutional remedies most relied upon in the management of a strimious diathesis, are those that are indicated. Cod-liver oil, steel medicines, preparations of iodine, quinine or a combination of one or more, of these; while the digestive functions should be carefully watched, and any existing defects treated by their appro- priate remedies. Change of locality from a moist to a dry atmosphere, from a town to a country, or from an inland to a sea-side residence, may be attended with advantage. To the tonsils them- selves various astringent and escharotic applica- tions are usually applied. The lunar caustic, either in substance or in strong solution, the tinc- ture of catechu or kino, the tincture of iodine, and similar local remedies have been recommended and have been followed by more or less benefit; but it should be borne in mind that in children the less severe cases in time greatly improve, and that many of these cases in adult age have ceased to be even a source of inconvenience.] But when these or other means fail, and the isthmus faucium is so obstructed that serious diffi- culty of deglutition and respiration are occasioned, the removal of part of the tonsil should not be deferred. As Mr. Liston observes, "it is by no means necessary to remove the whole tonsil, and the attempt would be attended with the greatest danger. The enlargement is but an opening out or simple hypertrophy of the gland. The surface heals kindly, and there is no reproduction of the tumor." [For the purpose of removing the hypertrophied . gland, the ligature, the actual cautery, the potassa fusa were formerly advised and practised, but in the present day cutting instruments are alone depended upon The fear of excessive haemorrhage, now found to be groundless, induced the older surgeons to prefer the more cautious means of removing what they considered to be a very vascular growth by ligature or caustic, but the great inconvenience of allowing the mass to slough off when a ligature was applied, and when the actual cautery or potassa fusa were used, the difficulty of apnlvimr them to the back of the throat so as to burn awiv to a sufficient extent the enlarged gland without injury to surrounding and contiguous structures have led to their being entirely discarded. It will not be necessary, therefore, to describe these obsolete methods of operating. With regard to the removal of hypertrophied tonsils by cutting instruments, as practised in the present daj', two principal methods have been adopted. The one by the fcu-ceps, or vulselh.m and a cutting blunt-pointed bistoury ; the othei- by means of various instruments, invented for the express purpose, in the form of scissors or i-uillo- tine.] ° _ The first mode is the more simple procccdinff and IS well and shortly described by Mr. Listen who directs the patient to be placed opposite a s'troinr ight ; the surgeon depresses the tongue with the fore-liiiger of one hand, and seizes the body „f ^1,,; gland with the vulsellum held in the other ||,^ iheu introduces the narrow, straight, blunt-pointed knife, with Its edge directed upwards under the gland, and by a few gentle sawing motions severs