672 TALIPES. excellent tlioiigli not quite correct account of the anatomy of congenital club-foot, proved the inac- curac)' of the malformation theorj'. Practical si.rgery then advanced, though very slowly, towards the means of cure; the turning- point in science was the discovery of subcutaneous tenotomy, an operation first performed by Stromeyer of Hanover, in the year 1831, though in the per- formance of this operation, Stromeyer freely and generously admits that he was guided by the prin- ciples laid down by Delpech of MontpelHer, in li!28. from the date of Stromeyer's operation, orthopsedic surgery, of which he may be con- sidered the founder, has advanced rapidly to its present position, and the successful treatment of deformities of the feet is now one of the greatest triumphs of modern science. There are four principal varieties of club-foot, viz.:— Talipes equinus,—characterised by elevation of the heel, with extension of the foot and the toes pointed downwards. Talipes varus,—inversion of the anterior part of the foot, with elevation of the heel. Talipes valgus,—eversion of the anterior part of the foot, with elevation of the heel in severe cases. Talipes calcaneus,—depression of the heel, Avith tiie foot drawn upwards in the flexed position in severe cases. And there are also tiree compound varieties, or intermediate forms, viz, : — Talipes equino-varus,—when the foot is somewhat inverted as well as extended. Talipes equino-valgus,—when the foot is everted as well as extended. Talipes calcaneo-valgus,—when the foot is everted, with depression of the heel. Let us now consider the first-meutioned variety of club-foot, viz. :— talipes equinus, BO named from the resemblance in position of the tarsus to that of the horse. In a severe case the heel is raised and the foot extended, so that it is continuous in a straight line with the leg with- out any lateral inclination; and the individual walks appare'ntly upon the toes, but really upon the ex- tremities of the metatarsal bones, the heads of which, under the weight of the bodj-, become more or less separated from each other, so that the anterior part of the foot.acquires an increased breadth. The longitudinal arch of the foot becomes con- tracted—i.e. its extremities approximated, so that the foot is shortened and the concavity of the sole increased. In proportion as this proceeds, so a prominence of the head of the astragalus takes place on the dorsal surface. In some cases of tali- pes equinus, in which all the anterior muscles are completely paralysed, the foot becomes retroverted and bent upon itself in the direction of its length; the toes and metatarsal bones being, as it were, folded backwards, so that the individual walks upon the instep. In this condition, however, the foot more frequently turns inwards, when the case would become one of non-congenital varus or equino-varus. From the severe degree of deformity above de- scribed, we have every gradation down to the slightest elevation of the heel without any defor- mity of the foot. Cases also in which the heel comes well to the ground in the erect position, but in which the tendo-Achillis is contracted (or, more properly speaking, the muscles of the calf which terminate in it) sufficiently to prevent flexion of the foot taking place beyond a right angle, are also classified with this deformit}', and described as cases of talipes equinus, though we speak of these more commonly as cases of right-angled coniractityn of the tendo-Achillis. This condition gives rise to a certain amount of lameness, and even verj-mode- rate exercise induces fatigue. It is a condition of more practical importance than would at first ap- pear, and when it has existed any length of time, and the muscles are in a healthy condition, the tendo-Achillis may require division. AVhen the muscles are either paralytic or rigid from spasm, little good will result; but in some of the latter cases, where there is no general alfection of the muscles of the lower extremity, tenotomy is useful. When severe talipes equinus exists only in one limb—its most frequent condition—an extreme degree of lameness is produced, far beyond that caused by the severest form of congenital varus, because practically the length of the leg is in- creased; and the patient generally resorts to the use of a crutch. When both limbs are affected, the patient may become totally unable to walk even with the assis- tance of crutches, but progression is seldom ac- complished without this amount of assistance. Morbid Anatomy.—The anatomical devia- tions in this deformity are extremely simple, and as it is essentially—by some authorities considered to be invariably—a non-congenital affection, we should not expect to find the bones materially altered in form; they have never been found, by dissection, to be altered sufficiently to prevent complete restoration of the foot to its natural form, which has been accomplished in patients beyond sixty years of age. The deviations in the hones relate to position rather than form. The os calcis assumes a more or less completely vertical position, from contraction of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles; it comes in contact with the posterior margin of the articular surface of the tibia, and, as a necessary result of this movement, the astragalus is thrust forwards and obliquely downwards—partially luxated from the ankle-joint—so that its head projects in front on the dorsum of the foot. The metatarsal Imnes assume, more or less, a vertical position in propor- tion to the elevation of the os calcis, and in the more severe forms become separated from each other laterally towards their distal extremities— thus increasing the breadth of the foot at the part tlirough which the weight is directly transmitted to the ground. , ,. i i • The hones generally/ are found to lie light, thin- walled, and atrophied, with the cancelii enl.arged and filled with oilv matter, in cases of long stand- ing, and especially those of paralytic ongui; these conditions are obviously the result of defective nutrition and disuse. The articular cartilages on the exposed and ex- truded portions of the articular surfaces of the astras-alus become thiuned, and completely re- moved at the articular borders, exposing the osseous surfaces. . r.i,.,o„i.u The li„amcntons structures in front of the ankle- joint, and on the dorsal aspect of the loot, cs-