pnsiire to draughts of cold nir and wet feet or clodies, and alphos befiiiis its life-long career; chaps and chilblains prevail in the winter season, and acne at all times of the year. We still have need of tonics, of quinine, of steel, of arsenic, and of a diet of the most generous description. The diseases of the fourth period, of manhood and wonianhood, are commonly dependent on a weakly childhood or youth, on excessive or un- healthy occupation and pursuits, on dissipation or excess, or on debility consequent on maternity. At this age we meet with chronic erythemata, eczema, alphos, and furuuculi, and after regulating the digestive organs, we are bound to have speedy recourse to tonic remedies, and to the specific power of arsenic. In women after pregnancy, the hair frequently falls out, and, from want of good management during the period of lactation, serous eczemata are apt to break out around the nipples, in the armpits, in the groins, behind the ears, and on the head. The fifth period brings with it the change of life, when both man and woman have to stem the wave of habit, and adapt themselves to a new constitution, to a preparation for decline. This period once happily past, age begins its course healthful and vigorous, and goes on happily and almost without limit to its duration. This is the age when our great and distinguished men are apt to drop off; they die suddenly and unex- pectedly. They have laboured in their useful and often brilliant career until the change of life has come upon them, and tlien, from want of care, from want of the direction of their physician, whom they believe themselves too well to consult, tliey fiill before their time, victims to infirmities that all must pass through to reach a green old age. It is at this period that the greatest physi- cal blessing that can befall man or woman is cutaneous disease. The blow must fall—where shall it fall ? shall it fall on the heart, on the brain, on the lungs, the liver or the kidneys, or on the skin? clearly, if we value life, on the skin; and it is then that, by timely and judicious treatment, by that regulation of the functions of digestion and of secretion, by that attention to mental repose, to exercise, to diet, that constitute the basis of our treatment of these diseases, we shall be able to avert consequences which, but for this happy affliction of the skin, must have been fatal. It is at this period of life that we meet with critical eczemata, irritable lichenous erup- tions, and teasing pruriginous affections. For these we have to cleanse and purify the blood, to strengthen the vigour of the vital powers, to re- Btiire comfort and health; and the body's health brings back the health of the skin. How often are we earnestly appealed to to refrain from " throwing an eruption in ?" whereas we care little to treat the eruption at such a moment; we direct our powers to the re-establishment of the ordinary healthy functions of life, and when that is attained the seemingly neglected local affection is cured; we have not Ihroxvn it in, we have simply starved it out. Like an impure fungus, it only existed through the supply of unwholesome juices fur- nished by lowered vitality and exhausted tissue. We invigorate vitality and renovate tissue, and the fungus droops and disappears. The sixth period is that of old .age, the diseases 8uch_aa result from imperfect and deficient nutri- SKIN, DISEASES OF. 597 tion of the skin, and a greater or less degree of exhaustion of the nervous system. The skin is apt to become harsh and dry and hard, sebaceous and epidermal concretions, and sometimes carci- noma of the sebiparous glands, are formed upon the face, lleshy warts and pendulous mollusca grow out from the body, pityriasis occurs upon the scalp, vibices and petechia on the fore-arms and legs, and prurigo of the general surface of the skin. Age demands little modification of the principles of treatment of the tegumentary organ already advocated. The soap-bath should be used daily and abundantly, the skin should be sub- mitted to moderate friction, concretions should be softened and removed, and anti-pruriginous reme- dies used to relieve the itching and irritation that pervade the surface. The constitutional remedies should difi'er in no wise except in mildness from the remedies employed during the other periods of life. The digestive functions must be regulated, and the powers of life supported with the aid of tonic medicines and regimen. Arsenic is well borne by aged persons; and hydrocyanic acid, with the bichloride of mercury, form one of the best local applications for senile prurigo. Having now considered the natural division of cutaneous diseases into local and constitutional, and the general principles of application of the local and the constitutional remedies, we have next to tm-n our attention to the application of these principles to particular instances, and we shall most readily eff'ect this purpose by passing m rapid review the whole series of cutaneous affections, selecting as we proceed those examples which may seem to deserve a more particular attention than they have hitherto received. The acute forms of the eczematous affections call for the use of means adapted to regulate the digestive and nutritive functions, to be accom- panied or followed by tonics, while the chronic forms demand an earlier adoption of tonics and the use of arsenic. Locally, tlie remedies suited for these affections are water-dressing or poultices or soothing ointments in the acute stage, and gra- duated stimulants in the chronic stage. In psoriasis, pityriasis, and gutta rosacea, stimulant» are especially indicated; in psoriasis, the tar-tinc- ture and ointment, the stronger mercurial oint- ments, and sometimes the stronger solutions of potash; in pityriasis, the diluted nitric oxide of mercury ointment (I ad 3); and in gutta rosaceii, the hypochlonde of sulphur ointment. The pm ritus of lichen is best relieved by lotions contain- ing acetate of le.-id, hydrocyanic acid, carbolic acid, or the pyroligneous oil of juniper, while in scabies sulphur is specific as a destroyer of the acarus. A few inunctions of simple sulphur oint- uient or spongmgs with the solution of sululiuivt of calcium, are sufficient to annihilate both the acnrus and its ova. But the cure of scabies is not unfrequently followed by a prolonged lichenous .rntation of the skin, the secondary consequence of thg animalcular irritation, and in some instances ttie eltect of the sirlphur frictions. The erijthemaloas affections depend for their cure chiefly on constitutional treatment, which must be antiphlogistic and tonic, with local remedies to subdue heat and calm irritation. Some of the erythemata arc closely allied with rheumatism and are benefited by iodide of potassium and colchi cum. Erysipelas calls for the early use of the