982 VENEREAL DISEASE. tioti, because the really first stage rarely comes under cognisance. Tiie experiment of excision of the induration on its first development is probably yet to be made ; moreover, the disease in its first stage does not furnish secretion capable of testing the practicability of auto-inoculatlon. The in- formation which the Committee have acquired upon the subject of inoculation is very unsatisfactory, and such as renders conclusive deductions there- from impossible. "It is possible that the poison of syphilis may be carried into the circulation from the moment of coniact, in whatever manner that is eflfected; but it is more probable that time is required to this end, " Mode ill ivhich the poison is received into the system. — Intimately connected with the foregoing subject is the question, How is the syphilitic virus introduced into the system by sexual intercourse ? General opinion assigns it to the presence of a minute wound or lesion of the part through which the poison is admitted. This wound or lesion may be supposed to be either caused by the act of in- tercourse itself, or to have existed previously. There is another explanation of the phenomenon, viz., that the poison remains in contact with the folds, whether of the mucous membrane, or integu- ment, and becomes soaked or infiltrated or ab- sorbed through it. Mr. Hunter says,—' The irregular surface of the frenum, &c., allows the matter to lie undisturbed in chinks, by which means it has time to irritate and inflame the parts. But as this matter is easily rubbed off from promi- nent parts by everything that touches them, it is a reason why such parts so often escape this disease.' Hence the greater frequency of primary sores on the thinnest investing membrane. Hence multiple sores. Hence the duplication of sores by contiguity of Apprising surfaces. Hence the occa- sional deposit of induration beneath unbroken in- tegument. Nor can it be asserted that the primary lesion has ever with certainty been detected by the eye, excepting indeed in those cases of syphi- litic contamination which occur to members of our profession from poisoned wounds of the hand. If this mode of the admission of syphilitic matter be deemed to be that whic'j commonly prevails, it is still a most difficult question to determine how long such matter may remain in innocuous contact with the membrane beneath it. Until the precise time can be fixed which is required for the poison to come within the influence of the absorbent system of the bod}', by whatever process it gains entrance, whether by mechanical infiltration or b}' vital absorption, and the first indication of local disease on the affected surface can be detected, the question of incubation must be regarded as un- answered. '' The same apparent deviation from the laws that govern the constitutional manifestations of the syphilitic poison prevails as in the case of primary Kiires, and the exceptions to the ordinary pheno- mena of absorption, of exem[)tion from recurrence of disease, of tlie period of incubation, of relapse, of liability or non-liability to cuntngioii, are de- clared of frequent occurrence by all candid en- quirers into the nature of syphilitic disease. "Unity or duulily of virus.—Among other ques- tions of interest connected with the subjects of syphilis is that of the ' unity ' or ' duality ' of the jjoison. It has been stated under the head of the 'Varieties of Venereal Sores' (sect. 3) that they are divisible into two species. One of these, termed simple, is a purely local sore ; the other involves the constitution. The terms ' unity ' and ' duality ' refer to tlie supposed identity, or other- wise, of the poison or virus producing them. In reference to this subject, the first question arises —can the poison which produces the 'local sore' be identical with that which produces the syphilitic sore ? The term syphililic cannot be applied to a sore which exhausts itself in its local actions, and does not become the parent or precursor of syphi- litic disease. The local sore has nothing in com- mon with the local products of syphilitic poison beyond its ulcerative action. It may be, and not unfrequently is, the morbid product of merely contagious secretions: while its characteristic form, progress, and duration, so dissimilar from the pro- ducts of other forms of local disease or injury of the genital organs of a non-venereal origin, warrant its cause being attributed to the presence and operation of an irritant poison. Although com- paratively innocuous at their source in the female, these secretions become a poison to the recipient, but not a syphilitic poison. Presuming the local sore, therefore, to belong to a different class of disease, if it be placed in juxtaposition with any of the varieties of the syphilitic sore, the Committee have no aliernative but to express their belief in the non-identity of the two poisons. At the same time, the Committee are of opinion that all sores, whether hard or soft, affecting the constitution by the production of syphilitic disease, whatever eruptive form it may assume, are the products of the same character of poison. "It is declared in evidence by twenty-nine ex- perienced witnesses that sores, both soft and hard, may be followed by every variety of syphilitic eruption. "In reference, therefore, to the question of ' unity ' and ' duality ' of the syphilitic poison, the Committee adopt the opinion ot its unity and single- ness. It is unphilosophical to resort to the as- sumption of the operation of two poisons in the same constitution at one and the same time, merely because a hard and a soft sore are found upon the same individual, or because a sore, half of which is seated upon the glans penis, and half upon the corona or prepuce, is soft in the one half and hard in the other. There is probably but one true syphilitic poison exerting its influence upon the soil in which it is implanted, producing various forms of true syphilitic sores, differing in different individuals, modified by health and by constitu- tion, by locality, and probably by its ever-varying intensit}-. " These views, though general, are not universal. Several of the witnesses stated their belief that all venereal sores may be produced by one poison only,and they reler the occasional absence of con- stitutional disease not to the absence of the syphi- litic poison, but to the influence of collateral cir- cumstances, viz., health, locality, and constitutional peculiarity. " One allack of Syphilis gives no fuime immunity. —Of thirty-three witnesses who were asked for their experience as to whether one attack of true syphilis gives iniinnnity to the individual Irom a repetition of the disease, twenty-three not only declared it to be their opinion that siicil wis not the case, but several amongst them st ated that they