562 SCROFULA. in discussing obstinate swellings ; but, he says, it also fi-fquenily disappointed him, and henevertsaw it dispose scrofulous ulcers to heal. Wiih refjard to mercury, we have already no- ticed, that calomel was much employed by Mr. White. Some have exhibited the bichloride, some the chloride, others the acetate of mercury. All these preparations have been at times conjoined with ci- cuta, antimony, &o. Calomel or the chloride is, perhaps, the best mercurial preparation in scrofulous cases; but mercury, given internally with any view of exciting salivation, is justly deemed hurtful. As nn alterative, and an occasional purgative, it is un- doubtedly a good medicine for strumous patients. Mercury was disapproved of by Cullen, as a me- dicine for scrofula. As a distinguished Professor observes : " From the great apparent similarity ot the symptoms, progress, and seats of scrofula, to those of syphilis, and from the well-known effects of mercury in curing syphilis, it need not seem strange, that medical men should have been a little obstinate in their attempts to obtain benefit from the use of mercury in scrofula. These ex- pectations are in general abandoned, and mercury is now given for the cure of scrofula as a purgative only. A long-continued, or improperly adminis- tered course of this medicine, has often been known to aggravate all the symptoms of scrofula ; and, in many instances, to excite these symptoms in persons in whom they did not previously exist.'' (See Thomson on Inflammaiion, pp. 194, 195.) Mr. Burns thinks the nitrous acid has some effect in promoting the suppuration of scrofulous glands and tumors, and disposing ulcers to heal. He says, two or three drams may be given every day, fur a fortnight; but if, in this time, it should do no good, its employment ought to be discon- tinued. The mineral acids, diluted with water (says Professor Thomson), are often used with views similar to those which guide us in the employ- ment of tonic remedies. Their medicinal powers appear to be nearly the same; but the nitric acid has of late been preferred, particularly in the scro- fulous affections, which are sometimes induced by the action of mercury. {Lectures, ^c. p. 197.) The carbonate of soda and potassa are useful in the treatment of scrofula, but not to be re- garded as specifics. They may be given with rhubarb, and, if the alvine discharges be of bad colour, with a few grains of hydrargjTum cum creta. A spirituous infusion of gentian, into six ounces of which are put thirty six grains of the carbonate of soda, or tiie same quantity of the carbonate of ammonia, is a medicine highly spoken of by Richerand for scrofulous cases. {Nosoffr. Chir. t. i. p. 184, ed.4.) Potassa, in large doses, with mercurial frictions, is the practice extolled by Mr. Farr, (See Fan- on Scrojulu, 8vo. Lond. 1820.) According to Mr. Burns, eight or ten drops of hydrosulphuret of ammonia, given thrice a day, are useful, in irritable strumous ulcers. The breathing of oxygen gas has been proposed ; but, of this plan I know nothing from experience; and ns it now makes less noise in the world than for- merly, I conclude that either its usefulness has been exaggerated, or the difficulty of the practice is too great to permit its extensive adoption. The sentiments of Dr. Cullen are decidedly against antimony. A» a modern writer observes, no great dependence seems ever to have been placed in the use of diaphoretic medicines for tlie cure of scrofula. The different preparations of antimony, indeed, have been occasionally admin- istered; but, chiefly in cutaneous affections, sup- posed to be of a scrofulous nature. Guaiacum, sareaparilla, sassafras, and mezereon, singly, and in combination, have all been supposed to be use- ful in the cure of scrofula ; but they are now seldom given with this view, except in cases of scrofula combined with syphilis, or excited by the too free and injurious use of mercur}', {Thomson's Lectures, <!j-c. p. 199.) With respect to Alibert's practice, amongst the vegetable bitters, he prefers the hop, burdock, gentian, and bark. He seems to have no confi- dence in specifics, like hemlock, belladonna, aco- nitum, &c. Neither does he express himself favourably of alkaline medicines, or the muriates of ammonia and barytes. However, he praises the good effects of steel medicines on enlarged glands. He affirms, that he has seen most good derived from external means; aromatic fumigations in an apparatus prepared by the chemist Darcet. What he calls scrofulous eruptions, he covers with a strong solution of the nitrate of silver. Swelled glands he rubs with the antimonial ointment. He commends also change of air, and the avoidance of low damp places; and speaks favourably of sea- bathing, sea voyages, sulphureous mineral waters, and particularly of the good effects derived from the solar warmth. (See A'bso/. Nat. p. 449.) Sir A. Cooper, in his account of the treatment of scrofula, dwells more upon the good effects of air, exercise, and nourishment, than upon the vir- tues of physic. He asserts, that there is no specific for the disease. Medicines, occasionally^ given for the improvement of the digestive organs, and re- gulation of the secretions, he admits, are useful; but attention to air, exercise, and diet,he considers far more important. Sometimes, he prescribes, once a week, or every ten days, two grains of ca- I'miel, and eight of rhubarb, in order to restore the visceral secretions. A good tonic medicine, for a short time, he observes, is two grains of rhubarb, and from three to five of the carbonate of iron. Another, he says, is two of rhubarb, six of dried subcarbonate of soda, and ten of columba, taken mixed with sugar. He recommends also a few grains of hydrargyrum cum creta, to be taken in the infusion of camomile flowers, at bedtime; or the bichloride of mercury, in the proportion of a grain to two ounces of tincture of bark, of which a tea-spoonful may be taken twice a day in a glass of camomile infusion; or when costiveness pre- vails, the tincture of rhubarb may be substituted for that of bark. The liquor potassa: is also enu- merated. But the medicines preferred by him are steel, with rhubarb and calomel, or the subcarbo- nate of soda, with rhubarb and columba. The local treatment, preferred by Mr. White, has been already described. I have only a few words to add concerning this part of the subject. Dr. Cullen states, that, in his practice, he had very little success in dispersing incipient scrofulous tu- mors by topical applications; and that a solution of acetate of lead, though sometimes useful, more frequently failed. Dr. Culleu found the liquor ammoniaj acet. not more successful. Foment- ations of every kind (says he) have been frequently found to do harmj and poultices seem only to