16 no cell growth. Henco lie infers that the pre- sence of abundance of this salt may fairly be ex- pected in those pathological changes in which cell formation takes an active port, since diseased actions are, doubtless, governed by the same laws as the healthy, although under different circum- stances. {Lionel S. Beale, M.B On the Dmmu- tion of Chlorides in the Unne, Med. Chir. Tmns. vol. XXXV. 1852.) , , . » • „ 8th. The state of the blood during acute intlan> mation has always been considered to afford the stronjrest evidence that this fluid takes an impor- tant part in the disease, either primary or se '^°"Th7reader does not need to be reminded that healthy blood drawn from a vein soon coagulates into a'raass of gelatinous consistence and uniform red colour. After this a spontaneous separation takes nlace Drops of a clear or yellowish serum begin to ooze out from the surface and edges, and soon the uniform red mass divides i^to two portions-- serum and crassamentum, J^'^'T, contains the albumen and salts; the latter the fibrine and solid particles, red and white. The mechanism of coagulation according to Mr. Wharton Jones, who has studied this subjec ,nore minutely than any living fy^'^^^f'^^J follows —The red blood corpuscles arrange them- selvTbya sort of mutual attraction, into rows, resembling rows of pieces of money; and the in- Sement of these rows forms a sort of network, iniforiSy diffused throughout I quor sangmnrs oriEi (the fluid part of the Wood containmg he serum and fibrine). Next, the fibnne of the iS sanguinis solidifies, this being the essential co^Xion of coagulation; and lastly, the fibrine conta lin. the red particles with it contracts itself Td squee^zes out much of the serum from the solid clot which floats therein. _ „.,t;™t The blood drawn from the veins of a patient labouring under acute inflammation almos imme- • diately displays on its surface a bluish or yellowish- wh flaye'r o'f liquid, the colour of when<^e inflamed blood was formerly called srzey Thi layer forms the surface of the blood when it has Sn4 solid, both before and after the clo^ h^^^^^ senarated from the serum. It generally conti. cts o-'as to make the upper surface of the clot smaller than the lower and concave. From the colom of this layer, and from its concavity, blood which present these appearances is commonly Rjiid to be huffed and cupped. " The explanation given by Mr. Wharton Jones of this phenomenon is as follows :-The red cor- puscles of inflamed blood have their mutual attrac- Ln much increased, so that ^ley form themselv s into rolls much more quickly tJfs blood do; for example, in healthy blood this c We takes place in half a minute, m inflamed btd almost instantaneously. By virtue more over of the same increased attraction, the net- vodc of td Corpuscles begins to conU.ct itself and to sink in the flu d plasma « f ^^^^ adulation of the llbrine has begun : hence t lea cs a^layer of plasma, or liquor sangiunis t the su face, colourless, as was described 'l^ ^d^yl.ibingt.imanyy^ago ^ Trails, vol. xvi. llioi.) J-"'* r 3 ,1 „ the bluish sizey layer we have spoken of, and fibrine of this forms the buffy coat. . There are many other conditions which were INFLAMMATION. formerly supposed to have a share in the produc- tion of the buffy coat. For example; inflamed blood usually coagulates more slowly than healthy blood does. This was abundantly shown by the experiments of William Hewson, whose " Inguirg into the Froperiies of the Blood " is a model of preci- sion in language, and well deserves the place which it holds as a medical classic to the present day Hewson well knew that " the size is merely the coagulable lymph, separated by the subsidence of the red particles, as will appear evident to any one who will, as Sydenham directs, move a finger or a teaspoon through the blood when he observes its surface becoming transparent tor in this case the blood, that otherwise would have been sizey, will now have a natural appearance, or be without size, from the red particles being prevented from subsiding.;' (Hewson, E^en- mental Inquiries, Lend. 1772, p. 38.) And Hewson proved, by repeated observation, that inflamed blood is slow in coagulating. "Where there was no size," he observes, it was found to coagulate completely in seven nu- nutes; but in one of the others, where the size was very thick, it did not completely coagulate m iiss than an hour and a half." But he knew perfectly well " that something more than merely a lessened disposition to coagulate is necessary for the forming of the crust or size;" for ^d^^J^ experiment of confining a portion of blood (by t^^o ligatures) in the jugular vein of a dog, and asce - tained that, though it was slow in coagulating, it presented no vestige of a buffy coat. Increased specific gravity of the globules, and increased tenuity of the plasma are conditions to which the formation of the buff has been ascribed; but the former is not proved, and the latter ren- dered improbable by the experiments of Whar on Jones and others, which tend to show that the subsidence of the red particles is F;nio ed by whatever renders the blood more viscid. (IF/wr- ton Jones, in British and Foreign Medical Reviexo April 1844; and Asiley Cooper, Prize Essay On tZ State of the Blood and Blood-vcsseh zn Inflam. mation, Guy's Hospital Reports, New Series, '° We"iustnot overlook the important part wluch tJwhite corpuscles of the b ood ake 'u^l- ^° [ '""^T''sJj: ^ot "t the r holo a elits'of blood are perceptible to the Waided eye, viz., the red corpuscles and the fibrine But the colourless corpuscles, whenever are present in considerable numbers, become d Stlv manifest to the practised eye. They fnv ti e qualities of viscosity, M causes them S tend to adhere to the coats of the vessels and : 1, ntl,<.r Hence when there exists a laige 0 colon" ss corpuscles, in the blood and da", occurs as it does in ordinary cases, after_ a Gradual weakening of the propelling force, the £ less corpuscles collect in vessels of everj dcsc ption into small heaps, and generally lie upon the outside of the later formed blood-clot So "iso after venesection, the red corpuscles subside first, and most deeply, the w;lute cor-