tity, and serous elFusion in the cavity of of the disease is slow, the patient often suffers no other inconvenience than from swelling of the leg on the side on which the tumor is largest, or from the unsightly bulk of the abdomen, which she is unable to conceal. In some rare cases patients have lived in this manner thirty or forty years, ■with a very considerable enjoyment of the comforts of life, and even the pleasures of the world, the accumulation of fluid rendering it necessary from time to time to peribrm the operation of para- centesis. In the majority of cases of this kind of drops}', however, symptoms dependent on unusually rapid increase of bulk, or pressure on any par- ticular organs in the abdomen, occur. Thus, heart- burn, vomiting, and purging, difficulty of passing urine, or violent and severe headache, are met with, which are entirely removed if the bulk of the tumor be reduced. There is a case now under the care of Mr. North, where the patient has for many years been unable to pass her urine, except by the daily use of the catheter ; and this appears to arise from the natra'al situation of the bladder being altered by pressure, and, perhaps, by the adhesion of the tumor. When both ovaries are diseased in this way, the catamenia are always absent; when only one ovary is affected, they are sometimes irregular, sometimes absent alto- gether. In many cases the diagnosis is free from difficulty. Pain has been felt in either iliac region, succeeded by a tumor, which can T)e tracad low down in the pelvis, and the uterus is found, on examination, dragged upwards by the morbid growth. The history likewise assists us ; it has followed miscarriage, or delivery ; at other times it occurs in females where pregnancy is out of the question, or at a time of life when it is im- possible, and yet where the unbroken health ren- ders ascites a very improbable occurrence." (See Seymour^s Illustrations of Dis. of the Ovary, p. SO.) The circumstances distinguishing it from ascites and pregnancy, and the fact of its being sometimes complicated with pregnancy or ascites, should be recollected. In ovarian dropsy the swelling does not, like that of ascites, begin from the lower part of the abdomen ; nor is it uniform, one side or the other being most protuberant. If several cysts exist, the dropsy is called multilocular, and the parietes of the abdomen often feel lobulated. When the patient turns herself in bed, a sensation of a heavy weight within the abdomen falling to the lower side is ex- perienced. Patients generally lie on the side on which the tumor has originated. In some cases a hard tumor is remembered to have preceded the distention of the abdomen. When, however, the cysts are few and very large, or unilocular, the distinction may be diflicult. Cysts, containing abundance of hydatids, are frequently met with connected with the liver or spleen. Such disease, in its earliest stage, is not likely to be mistaken for ascites; but, as the parietes of the abdomen become thinned, the presence of a soft swelling, and some- times exhibiting a slight degree of fluctuation, may be traced. In ascites the swelling proceeds from below upwards ; while in encysted dropsy of the liver its progress is from above downwards. A greater prominence may be perceived on the right side, in hydated cysts of the liver. As in ovarian dropsy, the general health is little alTected, at all events till the swelling has attained magni- '" " the urine is passed in the natural quan- PARACENTESIS. 435 tude ; the peritoneum, nor any anasarca of the lower extremities, occur till a very late period of the disease. (See Danuall, in Cyclop, of Prac. Med. art. Ascites.) In a case where the abdomeii contained a cyst of this kind, filled with four gal- lons and a half of serous fluid and hydatids, the abdomen was so uniformly distended, and the fluctuation so plain, that I introduced a trocar; but the canula became obstructed by the hydatids, and hardly any part of the contents of the cyst were evacuated. The man, who was in a most de- bilitated state, lived ten days after the operation. The cyst is placed in the museum of University College. I have since heard of cases in which the opening was enlarged with a probe-pointed bistoury, and the hydatids discharged. In one in- stance, thus treated, a cure was the result. With few exceptions, tapping can only be re- garded as a palliative measure ; the water collects again, the same grievances recur, and the opera- tion must be repeated. While an ovarian dropsy is recent, and even after it has been tapped, some attempts may be made to effect a radical cure. But I believe this is not to be accomplished with mercury, iodine, or any other medicine yet known. As Dr. Seymour remarks, in simple ovarian dropsy it would seem reasonable to diminish the quantity of fluid secreted in the cyst, by exciting some increase of the excrementitious fluids, more especially of the urine ; but experience does not show that such an effect can be produced by those remedies which are found very powerful in serous accumulation in the natural cavities of the body. Dr. Withering found digitalis completely fail. But where ovarian dropsy is combined with ascites, relief may be derived from the infusion of digitalis and pyrola uinbellata. {Seymour''s Illustrations of Dis. of the Ovarium, p. 90.) Emetics were re- commended by Abernethy to promote the absorp- tion of the matter of chronic abscesses, and by Dr. Percival for the dispersion of ovarian drops}'. (.Essays, vol. i. p. 375.) I believe that few practi- cal men have now any confidence in their use for these purposes. Blistering the surface of the ab- domen, keeping up a discharge with the savine cerate, and applying a tight roller, have been known to do good. Long-continued frictions are stated to have lessened an ovarian swelling ; but as is added, only temporarily. {Seymour, Op. cit p. 97.) Various operative plans have been tried for the radical cure of ovarian dropsies. 1. A considerable incision into the cyst, and keeping a' canula, or bougie, afterwards in the opening, to prevent an- other accumulation of fluid, and thus promote the contraction of the cyst, 2. Injections into the cyst. 3. Removal of the cyst. A very remarkable and successful instance of the first kind of prac- tice, and perhaps the earliest, is related by Dr, Houston, in the 33rd vol. of the Phil. Trans, the particulars of which may also be read in Dr, Sey- mour's work. In France, Le Dran laid open the cysts of ova- rian dropsies. His patients did not die of the con- sequent inflammation, and the dropsy, indeed, was cured ; but there remained cither a sarcomatous enlargement of the ovary, which continued to in- crease till death, or else incurable fistula;, leading into the cyst. The great size of a wound neces- sary for this purpose, the danger of inducing' in- i- V 2