180 LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OF, pnssing of the tube in the tracheal portion of the opening. Again, Desaiilt proposed to split the thyroid cartilage upwards in the mesial line, in order to enlarge the opening, and also to give more direct and eas)' access into the cavity of the larynx in cases in which, from the lodgment of foreign bodies or the presence of tumours, that was especially desirable. If this operation is performed, the ut- most care must be taken to keep accurately in the middle line, as from the insertion of the vocal cords irreparable injury may follow any divergence there- from. When the thyroid is ossified, its division is far from easy, and if its mucous membrane is much swollen, it may so protrude as to close the opening. Lastly, Vidal de Cassis, and after him Velpeau, on the suggestion of Bichat, introduced an opera- tion which is not now employed, but which demands passing mention. The proposal was to open the hyo-thyroid membrane, by a transverse incision close below the border of the hyoid bone, and so gain access into the upper part of the larynx. This last operation may be termed the supra thyroid. There are few cases in which it would enable us to remove foreign bodies or tumours •which could not be got at from the mouth, and the fear of causing an incurable fistula is very con- siderable. Whether the incision be made verti- cally or transversely, the epiglottis will probably pro- trude and have to be held aside before the interior of the larynx can be inspected. Vidal thought that in oedema of the glottis and in croup, this operation was especially indicated, but in these views he has not been supported. When the larynx is opened in any of the ways which have been detailed, there is considerable spasmodic cough and uneasiness for some time, till the mucus and blood have been expelled, but so soon as the respiration has been restored, the relief ob- tained is great and apparent. A tube can be worn without fear for very lengthened periods after la ryngotomy, notwithstanding the opinion to the con trary long entertained. There is one source of embarrassment and danger which occasionally attends both laryngotomy and - tracheotomy, and which, though little suspected or recognised, yet demands attention. In necrosis of the cartilages of the windpipe the mucous mem- brane often gets much thickened and separated from the underlying parts, and thus it may happen (as it has happened on several occasions) that the opening made has not penetrated the canal ot the windpipe at all, but has merely passed through the parts lying external to the raucous membrane, and the tube has been forced down into the space lelt between the mucous membrane and the walls ot the windpipe, increasing greatly the danger ot suifocation. . , The proper size of tube to be employed in laryn- gotomy, as well as the precautions to be observed Ifter operations on the windpipe, will be Retailed in the article Tracheotomy.] G. II. B. Maclcod. [LARYNX, SURGICAL DISEASES OF. As the organ of the voice and the channel of respira- tion, the larynx fills a most important place in the economy, and its affections demand the careful consideration of the surgeon. Composed of a com- plicated and delicate arrangement ol cartilages, muscles, and nerves, and lined with a membrane much exposed to irritation, the diseases of the larynx are frequently of a very serious char- acter, and, from the rapidity of their progression, require prompt and energetic treatment. The re- cent introduction into practice of the laryngoscope or larynx speculum, has afforded much insight into the character and progress of laryngeal disease, by enabling ns to investigate the interior of the windpipe and to apply with more precision to its various portions those medicaments vvhich may be required. It appears, however, doubtful how far the laryngoscope can assist us in the management of those acute forms of disease to which the larynx is obnoxious, and in the treatment of which every possible aid is so anxiously sought. The use of the instrument is not devoid of irritation to a patient in the enjoyment of ordinary health, and necessitates the acquirement of a certain amount of habit before such uneasiness disappears; and, as in the case of patients suffering from acute dis- ease there is usually much dyspncea and morbid sensibility, the inconvenience which'attends the use of the instrument is greatly augmented, and as we we have no time to habituate the parts to the presence of the speculum, it follows that in acute affections, we must not be too sanguine as to the benefit this most useful instrument may bring us. In chronic cases, however, its advantages are considerable. (See Lakyngoscope.) A consideration of the arrangement and attach- ment of the mucous membrane lining the larynx serves to throw much light on the nature and extent of several of its leading diseases. Its being continuous with the lining membrane of the pharynx and gullet on the one side, and the wind- pipe and air tubes on the other, renders apparent the mode in which various affections invade the larynx from above or below. Having formed the loose aryteno-epiglottidean folds around the superior orifice of the larynx, the mucous membrane is but loosely connected with the interior of the organ till it comes to cover the true vocal cords, where, while it assumes a more delicate structure, it becomes firmly adherent to subjacent tissues. It is at the lips of the glottis that the looseness and extensibility of the mucous membrane is most apparent, and it is there that this feature comes to exercise the most important influence in disease. At all points beneath the raucous raenibrane, ex- cept those at which it is adherent, lies very loose areolar tissue, which during health permits (espe- cially at the lips of the glottis) of the freest motion, but in cei-tain diseases comes to allow of rapid and great infiltration. The effusion into this sub-mucous tissue plays a most important part in larj'ugeal affections, and it is of much consequence to observe that it cannot extend further down towards the trachea than the true vocal cords in consequence of the close adhesion between the membrane and these structures, a fact to which attention was drawn above. The position of these cords defines accurately the inferior limit of such effusions. A further consideration has to be borne in raind. In consequence of the firm and unyielding charac- ter of the structures lying external to the sub- mucous tissues, any swelling which attends effusion into the areolar tissue will tell on the dimensions of the canal within, towards whose cavity they have no difficulty in bulging, while enlargement out- wards is strenuously opposed. , ,• • Lastly, it is to be remarked that the Inung