and contributes not in the least to its own ex- pulsion. The second indication, or that of keeping tlie nterus reduced, demands the employment of as- triii^'eiit injections and pessaries. The uterus, in a state of prolapsus, is sometimes affected with scirrhus and cancer. A case of this description was met with by Ruysch ; such a complication was seen in one instance by Cruveil- liier. (Anal. Palhol livr. xvi.) Its extirpation was completed by MM. Re'camier and Marjolin, by means of a ligature, though the patient is stated to have died afterwards from some cause which bad nothing to do with the operation. Instead of this method, which must inevitably be attended Avith great risk of tying a portion of the bladder, M. C'ruveilhier recommends making an incision into the posterior paries of the vagina, and thus getting into the great peritoneal ad de-sac between the bladder and rectum, dra\i' g the uterus outward, and separating its cellular connexions to the blad- der. A woman, whose uterus was cancerous, and in a state of complete prolapsus, without any in- version, was attended by Lnngenbeck, who suc- ceeded in removing the diseased organ with a knife, and^ the patient recovered. According to this author's de6cription,-after the vagina had been separated from tlie uterus, the latter organ was detached from the peritoneum, without the latter membrane being opened, a small portion of the fundus uteri being left, however, apparently quite sound. The bleedijig was very profuse, and required the use of tlie needle and" ligatures! The ovaries, and divided liganienta rotunda, were found connected with tli^ removed portion of the uterus. (tliU. fur. die Chir. b.i. p. 551. 12i. Hanover, lal8.) ' Prolapsus uteri is so great an affliction, when it does not admit of relief by ordinary means, that any new sug-restion, calculated to render the treat- ment effectual under such circumstances, ou-rht to be rendered as public .as possible. Tlie horizontal position, astringent injections, and pessaries have long been in use, and, as every pracutioner must have had opportunities of witnessing, they are fre- quently inefficient, or cannot be persevered in iJr. Hamilton, of Edinburgh, advised another me- chanical contrivance for preventing the prolapsus : It consists of either a strong T bandage, or, in more serious degrees of the disease, of a circular metal- lic belt, like that of a common truss, provi' od with a cross, or perpendicular strop, to which is attached a cushion stuffed with horse-hair, about six inches in length, by three in breadth ; and of a tiiickness proportionate to the degree of relaxa- tion, and, consequently, the degree of support required. By this simple means, in conjunction with cold bathing, and suitable constitutional treatment. Dr. Hamilton has founl no occasion for pessaries. The cushion, I think, should be covered with oil silk, for the sake of cleanliness. Dr. Hamilton formerly suggested the propriety of endeavouring to relieve very bad and confirmed cases of prolapsus uteri, by exciting adhesive in- flammation in the vagina, so as to bring about an agglutination of its surfaces. However, notwith- standing the more or less partial closure of the vagina, occasionnlly met with in the practice of surgery and midwifery, every pathologist is aware of the difficully of making a mucous tissue under- go the adhesive inllammniion ; and this consider- UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OP 8G3 ation led Dr. Hamilton not to attempt it. A more valuable and practicable operation is that of treat- ing such cases by approximating the pared sur- faces of the labia, and uniting them by suture. Dr. Ireland tried this method in Dublin, and has published an account of the success which attended it. (See Dulil. Journ. of Med. Science, vol. vi. p. 4(14.) Cruveilhier prefers to this proposal the plan of bringing about a contraction of the upper part of the vagina, by touching it with the nitrate of silver, or an acid. An anonymous writer re- marks, that a similar operation has been several times since performed by Velpeau, Boivin, Lan- gier, and others. Some produce adhesions between the opposite surfaces by means of wounds made with the knife; others by means ofsloughs and gra- nulating surfaces, resulting from the application of escharotics. " Dr. Ireland seems to attribute the merit of devising this operation to Dr. Marshall Hall ; but it is probable that Girardin, who pro- posed it in the year 1828, has the claim of priority. For an historical account of this operation, I must refer to the Anticdi Univcrsali di Medicina, edited cd Milan by Omodei, for December, 1835." (See Du/). Journ. of Med. Science, vol. x. p. 126.) In 1831, the operation was performed by Dr. Fricke, of Hamburgh, with a completely successful result ; and he is a strong advocate for it. The following quotation from Dr. Heminn-'s translation of Madame Boivin's work, p. 53, affords some particulars of Dr. Marshall Hall's operation, which appears to have consisted in the excision of a strip of the mucous membrane of the vagina " Dr. Marshall Hall has lately cured a case of complete prolapsus uteri by artificial con- traction of the vagina : a strip of the mucous membrane, an inch and a half wide, was removed along the whole of the canal, and the wound was sewed up. We hear nothing of hsemorrhage, and are assured that the patient suffered neither pain nor fever after the operation." In a note, the translator mentions that there was scarcely any hfemorrhage ; and that in November, 1833, two years after the operation, the uterus and bladder were found by Mr. Vincent to be perfectly sup- ported in their situation. Professor Dieffenbach has long abandoned the employment of pessaries (see Cruveilhier, Ami. Pathol, t. i. liv. 16), and adopted the plan of curing bad cases of prolapsus uteri by removing an oval piece of the membrane of the vagina • a plan suggested to him by the observation of a case in which some parts of the vagina sloughed away, while the uterus was in the state of pro- lapsus. The nterus and the remains of the vagina were reduced during the granulating process, and the result was a complete cure of the disease. As this operation seems to me less safe and eligible than the foregoing one, I omit the details of it which may be read in the 12th volume of the Duhl. Journ. of Med. Science, p. 488, or in Medioinischo Zeilumj, No. 3, 1836. Cruveilhier would prefer the excision of a few pieces of the mucous membrane, near the cervix uteri, to the method adopted by Dr. M. Hall, or Dieffenbach. Both these operations are analogous to Dupnyl tren's operation for the cure of inveterate cases of prolapsus ani, being founded on the benefit deriv- able from the contraction of the cicatrix. About two months ago, I practised Dupuytreii's operntioii lu University College Hospital, whereby a pro- 3 I, 2 ^