said before by one or other of thoae from whom me take Iiim home, T said, for three days. They assented ghidly. The patient accordingly came about eleven o'clock, and I at once drew three pounds of blood, and at three o'clock one more. He was wonderfnily relieved next day, A sooth- ing collyrium, mixed with wine, was applied under ttie eyelids at daybreak, at nine, and tliree ; and in the evening he was bathed. Next day the ej'es were anointed twice with a collyrium containing more wine, and in the evening an- other bath. The day after he went to meet his master at the place where carriages put up in Rome, and saluted him with eyes open. People wondered at this cure, rapid as if by magic ; and the master enquiring into it, and learning what had done it, nicknamed his Erasistnitean physician Ai/j.a<p6^os,''' in literal English " Blood- funker." Blood-letting is properly recommended by Galen for the 3-oung, robust, full blooded adult, and is for- bidden, or sanctioned with limitations, in the case of the aged, the very young, the feeble, and per- sons of soft white flesh and complexion, amongst whom he reckons the Gauls ! Early in an attack the blood is to be drawn from a part as far away as possible, in order to create revulsion ; i.e. if the left pleura be inflamed, blood should be taken from the right leg. If an inflammation be of some duration, blood should be taken locally by leeches, or cupping, or by opening a neighbouring vein. We must not linger longer on Galen, except to say that his ideas and his very words on inflamma- tion were implicitly copied by succeeding writers down to the middle of the eighteenth century. The Arabian school, founded on the Greek, held its ground long in Europe, and such was its reputation that Dante, in the beginning of the focrteenth centurj', in enumerating the chiefs of the faculty of physic whom he saw in the Elysian circle of Hell, mentions " Ippocrate, Avicenna e Galieno, Averrois, che il gran comento feo," putting the Arabians on the level of the Greeks. They treated the Greeks aj authorities who were to be followed implicitly. So they give us but little in return for a search through their misty pages. We look for a theory, a sign of thought or research, or a good piece of argument, but find nothing. Volume after volume of worthless dissertation and diffuse commentary make us wonder that such works ever survived. Nothing approach- ing to a theory of infl.immation is given us by these writers ; it may be said of all of them, as a French writer says of their chief, Avicenna, "they seem to take pleasure in multiplying the signs of disease without any reason, and fix on the least im- portant and most accidental signs as those on which to lay most stress." After the Arabians the torch of medical knowledge was kept alight by the school of Salerno in Italy, and by the newly-esta- blished universities of Paris, Montpellier, Bologna and elsewhere. Still, they were but followers of authority. In the books published in Europe before the revival of learning had yet reached medicine, we find the changes nmg upon Hippo- crates and Galen, Avicenna and Ilhazes, and the others of their respective schools, with little acuteness or variety. None of these authors, as far as a moderately careful search shows, says anything about inflammation which had not been :MATI0N. 55 they extract the substance of their books. An aphorism given by one of them, Arnaldus de Vil- lano^a, or Arnauld de Villeneuve, with reference to the treatment of inflammatory diseases, is per- haps worth recording :—" Modestus et sapiens medicus nunquam properabit ad pharmaciam, nisi urgente necessitate ; cum etiam debilia, quibus corpus non indiget, sint nociva." When we come to the sixteenth century we still find the illustrious Ambrose Pare {b. circ. 1520, d. 1590), treating of inflammation in the very words of Galen, in his fifth book, " traitant des Tvmevrs contre Natvre." (QSuvres completes par Maf.i/ai'gne, vol. i. p. 319 e< seq.) The account given of inflammation by Wiseman, the greatest English surgeon of the seventeenth century, is evidently written with a desire to keep as close to Galen as possible. Phlegmon is treated of among tumours. The author commences his chapter on this subject as follows:—" Hitherto 1 have discoursed of tumours in general. I shall now descend to particulats, and begin with phlegmon, or inflammation; both because it is the first degeneration from good blood, and in its own nature nearest of kin to it ; and also because it is the most frequent of tumours, happening in dis- eases, wounds, contusions, fractures, luxations, &c. It being also the usual forerunner of many mis- chiefs that happen in many of those cases, and consequently the most obvious occasion of exer- cising the chirurgeon's skill. " I define it, a large tumour, hot, of a red colour, with pain, pulsation, tension, and a cir- cumscribed hardness. " It has different names according to its situa- tion: « * * or, lastly, from the matter; which, if simple, it is a simple phlegmon : if compound, it hath its denomination from the humour with which it is compounded, and so is called erysipela- todes, phlegmatodes, oedematodes, scirrhodes. "The cause of phlegmon is generally a plethora, having some acrimonious mixture in the serum of the blood ; which latter is the usual matter of a phlegmon, being cast out of the vessels, and lodged in the pores of the skin, or other part affected with it. This serum being accompanied by the thinner parts of the blood grows red and angry, and, wanting its due regress into the mass, first gathers into a hard swelling, and in few days (if it ba not discussed) ripens into matter, and so dis- chargeth. " The signs are " (as given above). " The tumour growing big and more collected, a suppuration suc- ceeds, and then the symptoms abate. As the tumour riseth into a cone, so the matter may be felt to fluctuate, and the skin becomes thin and pale, viz., of the colour of the subjacent matter. " The prognostic is good when the tumour in- sensibly exhales and resolves; in which case the ebullition abates, and the blood, being less violent in its motion, passeth gently by, and by degrees swalloweth up that humour into its channels again which it had in the time of its ebullition cast out; or, at least, having suffered the thinner parts to transpire, it receiveth the rest. " Next to this wa}' of terminating a phlegmon, suppuration is best, when the matter of the tumour ripens into a kindly pus. " But it is of ill consequence if the tumour dis- appear without abatement of accidents, and the