[781 of tlie lilood, rom improper food, cold, or the like, nie got rid of by the normal processes of oxydation and excretion, 10. It is under conditions of weak health and lowered vitality that fevers and inflammations are most likely to ocMir. 11. There is nothing benevolent nor conserv.a- tive in fever and inflammation. They are grievous wastes of force and substance, and imply a pro- digal production of the lowest amoeboid forms of organisation. 12. It is a pernicious doctrine to hold that " Nature feeling herself injured, sets up inflam- niation to restore the damage or recover the health." If there be damage, it is tlie duty of the practi- tioner to remove causes of irritation, and to quiet the nerves, till natural processes of oxydation and elimination shall have got rid of any material cause, and till an injured or fatigued organ can recover its nutrition. 13. The best result of inflammation is, that it sometimes produces a new organ of oxydation or elimination, as in gout, mucous flux, and critical abscess. But as these may risk life and health, it is the surgeon's duty to render them needless by the means just mentioned. 14. Of the causes of inflammation, some reach the part from without, as wounds ; others through the blood. In the latter case, the blood is some- times the mere vehicle, as of cantharidine to the kidneys. But the real blood diseases are those produced by some modification of that fluid, whether spontaneous or resulting from chemical substances acting as ferments. (6 supra.) ] 5. This last-mentioned class of cases constitute the "fevers" of which local inflammations are products and symptoms. In a true " local " and traumatic inflammation the feverishness is second- ary and symptomatic. 16. But in all great idiopathic inflammations, and in the cases of injuries in which septica;mia lias occurred, the local symptoms are as secondary, as are the lesions in typhoid or scarlatina. 17. For the great idiopathic inflammatirns, just as for acute rheumatism, we ought to restore the term " fever." Just as we speak of rheumatic fever, so we ought to speak of gouty, erysipelatous, pneumonic, pleuritic, and peritoneal fevers. So the greatestphysiciansahvaysdid—Hippocrates,Sy den- ham, Hoffmann, Huxham, and Fordyce. To speak of erysipelas, gout, or pneumonia, as local inflam- mations is absurd. Pathology in this instance must reenter pour mieux sauier. 18. Just so inflammation, tumours malignant and other, hypertrophy, " tubercle," elepiiantiasis arabum and'the like, ought to be taken as mem- bers of one series. 19. We cannot attempt to give, even in the most general form, the treatment adapted to each kind of inflammation. For, in truth, that of every case must be adapted to the cause, the de- gree, the constitutional peculiarity, the organ or tissue involved, and the stage. Remedies that would be useful in an early stage may be useless or pernicious afterwards. 20. It is preventive treatment which should be the surgeon's great study. In all cabcs of nijury or threatened inflammation, by rest ; if there be a wound,by providing against putrefaction and germs; in many cases after exiiaustion and exposure, by a tnodcrate use of stimulants, with a warm bath iind INFLAMMATION. nutritions food. In cases of wound or parturition, the first impressions on the nervous system should be neutralised by opiates. In cases wiiere excess of food and a gorged condition of the alimentary canal exist, an incipient case may often be cut short by purgatives. In malarious cases, quinine; in gout, colchicum seems to have the power of sup- pressing that nervous condition which permits of local mischief; and it is for "specifics" of this kind, as preventives, that the practical surgeon should pray. 21. I fan inflammation be already lit up, a differ- ent order of remedies may be requisite; just as fire- engines must be had to check a conflagration the first spark of which might have been put out by a housemaid's mop. Bleeding should be practised if the condition of the paiieiit seem to render it expedient. If not, a labouring organ may be freely leeched. Purgative, saline, and opiate reme- dies, and wine, may be added according to the needs of each case. 22. In the fulh'-established inflammation, when the effusion or other usual result has taken place, the surgeon will think of giving vent to discharge, of supporting the strength, and repairing the mis- chief which he has not been able to prevent. There is nothing unreasonable in believing that a bath and brandy-and-water maj' prevent an attack, which may require bleeding if fully de- veloped, and wine at its close. 23. In the reparation of injuries, and in diseases whose course is known and regular, the treatment must be chiefly expectant. 24. In every instance the surgeon at the bedside will do well to divest himself of all abstract and me- taphysical notions,and to see before him nota "case" but a brother, a being of flesh and blood, whose body and soul require to be dealt with by moral and material agents, according to the needs of each. Robert Druitt. Bibliography.—The numbers refer to tlie pages in which each author is quoted. The title, edition, date, &c., are given only when they have not been fully gfiven in the text. 1. Ancient 5u/'(?erv.—Hippocrates, 52; Celsus, [55]; Galen, 53 ; Renouard, 53, [75] ; A. Pare, 55; Wise- man, 56; Sydenham, 4+, 5t); Daniel Turner, 56. 2. Wiseman to end of Ihinterian School.—WWWs, 57; Van Helmont, 57; Borelli, 57; Uoerhaave, 58; De Gorter, 58 ; Stahl, 59 ; Pitcairn, 57 ; F. Hoftmann, 59- Wliytt, 60; Vacca, 22; Belloste, 58; Astruc, 58 ; Haller, 60; Borden, 60; Cullen, 60; J. Burns, 62; J. Hunter, 61 ; Bell John, 62; Bell Benjamin, 62; Broussais, Examen de la Doctrine mtdicale, Paris, 1816; Tominasini, [65]; Rasori, Teoria dellaFlogosi, Milan, 1837; John Brown, Works, Lend., 1804; Magenise, Daniel, Tlie Doctrine of Inflammations, Lorid., \'i&R{opposes Uoer/iaaiic's doctrine of obstruc- tion, attributes injlammnlion to exudation through the pores of the ca/jillarics); Graves, llobert J., Clinical Medicine, Dublin, 1843, p. 466; A. Cooper, 9; Abernethy, 56; Andral, 8. 3 Early Microscopists.—Uewson, 16; Fahre, 63; Wilson Philip, 22, 63 ; C. Uastinss, 23, 63; Geiidrin, 19 • KaltcnLranner, 23; H. Mayo, 9, 64; Travers, 23 ; J. W. Earle, 23; J. H. James, 43 ; Aston Key, 66 ; Macartney, 9, 64. • , o„ 4. Cell Doctrine.—ischwmm, Microscopical Ke- searches into the Accordance in the Structure and 23 : C. J. B. Williams, 25, 66, 72; Schuler, 26; Uedfern, 30; J. HuRhes Hennett, 66; Huxley, 69; Vlrcliow, s, 17, 28, 3U, 07 ; Tomes, 65; Miesclier, 6b; Lebert, 66; Uokitansky, 67 J Tyson, 69; W. larr, 36.