518 RECTUM, DISEASES OF. and colon were found full of black coagulated blood. Sir E. Home refers also to some instances, within his knowledge, where, after the removal of internal piles with the knife, the bleeding endangered life. {On. Ulcers, p. 3()5.) Notwithstanding the risk of hremorrliage from the excision of internal piles it was practised by some of the best surgeons in France; this seems to have been for a long time their usual practice, the bleed- ing being afterwards suppressed by distending the rectum with a mass of charpie, to which a ligature was attached, as recommended by Boyer; or by long continued pressure on the bleeding point by the fin- ger ofan assistant, or by the introduction of M. Ber- niond'scanula, which at once regulates the pressure on the bleeding vessels, and, when its central tube is taken out, enables the surgeon to ascertain whether effusion of blood is going on within the bowel. With it, also, the patient is able to empty the rec- tum as often as nature requires. (See Velpeau Nouv. Elcm. de Med. Oper. t. iii. p. 995.) Dupuytren preferred excision :—" My maxim (he observes) is only to cut off the part of the tumor projecting externally; because, if the whole of it were removed, there would be a risk of_ dangerous bleeding, and a subsequent con- traction of the anus. In this proceeding, it seems as if a very considerable mass were left at the margin of the anus, and not enough of the tumor cut off; but, as the part heals, everj'thing be- comes right, and the anus recovers its proper condition.'' He afterwards states, that whenever he removes internal piles, which he accomplishes ■with scissors curved laterally, after the tumors have protruded and been taken hold of, he leaves with the patient an assistant, who is directed to apply the cautery if any bleeding come on. In- deed, he expresses his opinion, that, as two-fifths of his patients, whose internal piles had been re- moved with scissors, were attacked with subse- quent haemorrhage, it would be better to apply the cautery directly after the operation. The introduction of a pig's bladder, which is then filled with lint, is another expedient for stop- page of the bleeding. Dupuytren found it succeed in one instance; but acknowledges that it is a great annoyance, and usually cannot be retained. (See Lefons Orales de Clin. Cldr. t. i. p. 349.) When I add to these statements the recollection that a cautery of particular construction is ne- cessary, and that few surgeons will ever be pro- vided with it, it is needless for me to remark, that the candid account of the subject given by Du- puytren him.self, amounts to as complete a condem- nation of this part of his practice as could be drawn up by any of its opponents. Sir B. Brodie lays it down as a general maxim, that internal piles should be mostly extirpated with the ligature. If they are small, however, he admits that it is not necessary to tie them; and they may be cut away with perfect safety. If a pile, not larger than the end of the little finger, protrude, or lodge in the orifice of the anus, co- vered by mucous membrane, the surgeon may take hold of it with a double tenaculum and apply the scissors to the base, and no inconvenience will follow the operation. But, whenever there are large internal piles, Sir Benjamin Brodie deems the removal of them by ligature the only safe plan. In order to prepare the patient for the applica- tion of ligatures to internal piles, he should be directed to take a dose of castor oil, or rhubarb, the day before the operation, so that the bowels may be first emptied, and no necessity occur for disturbing them again for two or three days after- wards. Another requisite measure is that of bringing about the descent of the piles. For this purpose, the patient is to sit over a pan of hot water, which will relax the sphincter muscle, and at the same time, cause the veins of the rectum to be filled with blood. If this be not sufficient. Sir B. Brodie directs a pint or two of warm water to be thrown into the rectum, as an enema, and when this comes away, the piles will probably descend. Then the patient may incline over a table, or lie on one side in bed with his knees drawn up, and the nates held apart by an assistant. Each pile must be separately tied. If it be of small size, it may be raised with a double tenaculum, and a ligature at once placed round its base. But if the piles are of more considerable size, a large curved needle, armed with a strong double ligature, is to be in- troduced througli the base of each of them. The needle is then cut oft', and the double ligature thus converted into two single ones, which are to be tied round the base of the pile ; one on one side, and the other on the other, with a single knot. When each pile has been thus secured. Sir Benjamin Brodie cuts off' the convex portion of each pile, and bj' thus discharging the blood con- fined in it, is enabled to tighten each ligature in a still greater degree. In fact, the ligature should be drawn as tight as possible, for then the sub- sequent pain will be less, and the separation of the slough quicker. A double knot having been made on each ligature, the threads are to be cut off' close to the knots, and the piles and the remains of the ligatures returned into the rectum. In about a week, the ligatures are generally detached; and, at this period, the bowels should be kept gently open with lenitive electuary and sulphin-, and cold water be thrown up the rectum every morning, in order to prevent a recurrence of the disease. {Brodie, ih.) The removal of internal piles with ligatures is, generally, a safe proceeding. Untoward cases will, however, sometimes happen. Petit frequently practised this method, without any ill eft'ects. In other instances, the consequences were bad. A woman, in whom he had tied three hsemorrhoids with narrow pedicles, did not at first complain of much pain; but, in five hours, she was attacked with violent sufferings, like those of colic, extend- ing along the colon. She was bled four times without material relief. At last, Petit cut the ligatures, which could not be otherwise loosened. The pain then soon subsided. The ligatures had only been applied twenty-four hours; but the piles had become black, and they were then cut off without any eft'usion of blood. Petit also relates a case in which a patient, after having had some piles tied, died of symptoms re- sembling those of strangulated hernia, and this notwithstanding the prompt removal of the ligatures. Mr. Kirby mentions two cases, where bad and fatal effects followed the operalion of tying piles : in one, the patient's life was saved with great dif- ficulty; and, in the other, tetanus and death were the consequences. (On Haimorrhoidal E,rcrcsccna:, pp. 1—3., 8vo. Loud. liil?.) I bave known pa- tients attacked after the operation with frequent