verging incisions of the upper flap in the inguinal regions are to be united together—its lower margin lu tile centre is to be connected at the root of the peiiis, with the reflected prepuce and the rest of its lower edge as already stated, will be joined to the upper margins of the lateral flaps. Mr. Brett lays great stress on the advantage of emptying the veins by position before commencing the operation, and of rapidity in its performance in order to save as much as possible the loss of blood. In Mr Brett's work will be found plates of the disease and ot the steps of the operation. Also in the Lancet, Feb. 1846', p. 242. He operated on seven cases in India, of which two died from mortifica- tion; the remaining five recovered. In the year 1846 the present Editor assisted Mr. Brett in an operation of this kind for a tumor weighing 9 lbs. The operation as above described was somewhat modified, on account of the com- parative small size of the tumor. A full description ot the case by Mr. Brett will be found in the Lancet for July, 1846, p. 36. The man made an excellent recovery. Dr. Fayrer, Professor of Surgery in the Medical College, Calcutta, in his work entitled Clinical Aicrgeiy m India, publishes as many as 28 cases of this malady occurring in liis own practice, all of which were operated upon ; of these 6 died and 22 recovered. Of the 6 deaths, 5 were from pyamia, and 1 from exhaustion. Dr. Fayrer's mode of performing the operation differs con- siderably from that recommended by Mr. Brett He advocates the raising the tumor for half-an- hour or longer before commencing the operation, in order to drain it of blood as much as possible; also rapidi ty in removing the tumor, which should be ac- complished in from three to five minutes, in order to save loss of blood. With the same object of pre- venting haamorrhage during the operation, he recom- mends the application of a hand-clamp to the neck of the tumor, or a sort of tourniquet, consisting of a strong chord, the ends of which are passed through a brass ring, and armed with handles. He . does not think it of importance to save skin either to cover the penis or testicles, but trusts to healing by granulation and cicatrization. The de- scription of his operation performed for the removal of a scrot.ll tumor weighing 75 lbs., with a short history of the case, is here added. ■ " Nobo Koomar Dass, 32 years of age, native of Calcutta, was admitted into the Medical College Hospit.il, on December 9th, 1861, with a scrotal tumor of great size. His health was very poor ; he was suffering at the time from sloughing ulce- ration of the tumor. He was much emaciated, and subject to repeated attacks of fever. "It was not till April 12, 1862, that it was deemed safe to attempt the operation. During the interval, under the combined influence of rest, good food, quinine, and iron, he had improved in health, and gained flesh, strength, and spirits! The tumor was of enormous size, slightly tuber- culated at the lower part of it. It was 17 inches in circumference at the neck, 44 inches transverse 46 inches vertical, and 57 inches lateral circum- ference. Its growth, extending over a period of eight years, commenced in the scrotum, and was accompanied by the usual paroxysms of fever recurring several times in the month. No ele' phantiasis in any other part of the body. On April 12, 1 removed it with the aid of my colleague Mr. SCROTUM. Partridge, tlie Jiouse surgeon Mr. Hayes, and the dressers. "A vertical incision was made with a long am- putating knife on a steel director down to the peni.= which lay deeply embedded in the mass. Three deep incisions were required to expose the glans. The penis was then dissected out and held back.' The left testicle was exposed by a series of bold' incisions, dissected out, and reflected. The ri<rht testicle was next sought for, but being deeply em- bedded and diflicult to detach from the surrounding mass the attempt was discontinued and the cord cut across. The incisions were then connected by a transverse cut at the base, and the mass removed by a series of rapid sweeps with the scalpel. The arterial hajmorrhage was partially controlled by a clamp placed on the neck of the tumor, which had been elevated with pulleys for an hour before the operation to empty it as much as possible of blood. About thirty-one ligatures were required, every bleeding point being carefully secured. " He became very low on the table, but soon rallied. The removal of the tumor occupied a little over three minutes. It was not considered safe to prolong the operation in searching for the right testicle, as the hajmorrhage was profuse, and the patient had naturally a weak pulse and feeble action of the heart, with a tendency to fatty de- generation, which made us rather doubtful in the outset as to the propriety of giving chloroform; but having preserved the penis and one testicle, the other was sacrificed rather than run any risk of sinking from exhaustion. I should add that, in addition to the elephantiasis, there was a large hydrocele containing several pounds of fluid. " The tumor was weighed some time after its removal, when the blood and serum had drained away, and was found to weigh 75J lbs.; so that the weight removed, including fluids, must have been over 80 lbs. The patient was under the in- Huence of chloroform and felt nothing. "I saw him five hours after the operation• the pulse had risen to nearly its natural standard'; the body was warm, and the effect of the shock had evidently passed away. , .'u'^'^fT'"'^ ™' ^'^''^'^ f'"" the first time on the 15th (the third day), after the dressings applied on the operating table, and they have been changed daily since. Oiled lint and pressure with a band- age to aid contraction was all that was required "He has not had a bad symptom, and the wound rapidly closed in. "He was able to sit up and even walk about a little on April 28 (the sixteenth day), and by May 27 (the forty-fifth day) was quite well." ^ ^ • The largest growths of this nature that have been removed in England are, so far as I know those operated on by the late Messrs. Listen and Aston Key, one tumor being neariy 50 lbs. and the other neariy 57 lbs. in weight. Mr. Liston's case did well, the entire tumor, including the testes and penis being removed. Mr. Key's case died very shortly after the operation, which lasted one hour and three-quarters; the delay, no doubt, be- ing caused by the attempts to preserve and cover the genital organs. "It is therefore interesting to know that even arger growths may be removed, the genital orifans be preserved, and no such fatal result occur It ig not necessary to attempt to preserve flaps to cover in the exposed penis and testes; this is perfectly