LTTHOTOMT only in such cases, and not in nil, tliat Frero Come thought the latter method better than the lateral operation. He had also discernment enough to perceive that it was extremely desirable to ijivent some means whereby the painful and liiirtAil dis' tension of the bladder, for the purpose of making this organ rise behind the pubes, would be rendered unnecessary, at the same time that some measure was adopted for letting the urine have a more de pending outlet than the wound in the hypogastric region. Come operated after the following way he first introduced, through the urethra, into the bladder, a staff, which was then held by an as- sistant ; an incision, an inch in length, was now made in the periiieunvin the same direction as in the lateral operation. Another incision was made in the membranous part of the urethra, along the groove of the staff, as far as the prostate gland. A very deeplj'-grooved director was then passed along the staff into the bladder, and the latter instrument was withdrawn. By means-of the director, a sonde a dard, or kind of catheter furnished with a stilet, was now introduced into the bladder, and the director taken out. An incision was then made, about three or four inches in length, just above the symphysis of the pubes, down to, and in the direction of, the linea alba. A trocar, in which there was a concealed bistoury, was next passed into the linea alba, close to the pubes, and the blade of the knife then started from its sheath towards the handle of the instrument, while its other end remained stationary. In this manner, the lower part of the linea alba was cut from below, upwards, and an aperture was made which was now enlarged with a probe-pointed curved knife, behind which a finger was kept, so as to push the peritoneum out of the way. Come then took hold of the sonde a dard with his right hand, and, elevating its extremity, lifted up the fundus of the bladder, while, with the fingers of his left hand, he endeavoured to feel its extremity in the wound. As soon as the end of the instrument was perceived, it was taken hold of between the thumb and middle finger, the peritoneum was carefidly kept up out of the way, and the stilet was pushed by an assistant from within, outwards, through the fundus of the bladder. The bladder being thus pierced, the operator introduced into a groove in the stilet a curved bistoury, with which [he divided the front of the bladder, from above, downwards, nearly to its neck. He then passed his fingers into the opening, and keeping up the bladder with them, withdrew the sonde a dard altogether. But, as it was desirable that both his hands should be free, the bladder was prevented from slipping away by means of a suspensory hook, held by an assistant, as soon as the opening was found to be already ample enough, or had been en- larged to the necessary extent. Come next intro- duced the forceps, took out the stone, and passed a canula, or elastic gum catheter, through the wound in ihe perineum into the bladder, so as to maintain a ready outlet for the urine, and divert this fluid from the wound in the bladder. [Although those modifications seem to contribute to the safety of the operation, they have been rejected as superfluous by Scarpa and Dupuytrcn. ] In women, of course the catheter was passed through the meatus urina- rius. And I ought here to observe, that Come like Scarpa, thought the high operation especially advisable for females, because liis experience had 207 taught him that the division or dilatation~of the meatus urmarius was generally followed bf an in- continence of urine. (See Nnuvdlc Milhoda (Vea-lraire la Pierre do la Vessie pur dessiis le Puliis, ^-e. 8vo. Bruxelles, 1779.) Another modilleation of the high operation was suggested by Deschamps, who, instead of opening tlie membranous part of the urethra, as Come did, perforated the bladder from the rectum,and through the canula of the trocar effected the same objects which (ho latter lithotomist accomplished by means of the incision in the membranous part of the urethra. Of the two plans, that devised by Come is unqui stionably the best, because not attended with a double wound of the bladder; a thing which, I conceive, must alwaj^s be highly ob- jectionable. Dr. Souberbielle, who practises Come's method, introduces a silver wire through the canula of the sonde a dard, and passes it through the wound made in the linea alba. The wire is then held while the sonde il dard is withdrawn, and a flexible gum catheter is passed by means of the wire into the bladder, through the wound in the membranous part of the urethra. The wire is now withdrawn, and the catheter is fixed with tapes, passed round the thighs and pelvis, and a bladder is tied to it for the reception of the urine. "A piece of soft linen, half an inch wide and six or eight inches long, is to be introduced, by means of a pair of forceps, into the bottom of the bladder;" the object of which slip of linen is to carry ofl'such urine as may not escape through the catheter. Lint and light dressings are applied, and a bandage round the abdomen. Great care is to be taken to keep the catheter pervious, and, usually on the third day, the slip of linen may be taken out, and the wound closed with adhesive plaster. (See Carpue's Hislory of the High Operation, pp. 171 — 172.) Sir Everard Home made trial of Dr. Souber- bielle's method, in St. George's Hospital; and, though some difficulty and delay occurred in the operation, on accoimt of the stone being encysted, the result was successful. Subsequently to this case, however, Sir Everard invented and practised another method, which, so far as I can judge, is better than that of Come or the plan formerlj' adopted by Souberbielle, though its principles are the same. Sir Everard Home performed his new operation for the first time, in St. George's Hospital, on the 26th of May, 1820. "An incision was made in the direction of the linea alba, between the pyra- midales muscles, beginning at the pubes, and ex- tending four inches in length ; it was continued down to the tendon. The linea alba was then pierced close to the pubes, and divided by a probe- pointed bistoury to the extent of three inches. The pyramidales muscles had a portion of their origin at the symphysis pubis detached to make room. When the finger was passed down under the linea alba, the fundus of the bladder was felt covered with loose fatty cellular membrane. A silver catheter, open at the end, was now passed along the urethra into the bladder, and, when the point was felt by the finger in the wound, pressing up the fundus, a stilet, that had been concealed, was forced through the coats of the bladder, and followed by the end of the catheter. The stilet was then withdrawn, and the opening through the