LITHOTOMY. Coui s (V Operations de Chirurgie, par Dioiiis ; Garengeot, Traitt des Operations, t. 3 ; Morand, Opuscules de Chirurgie, part 2. Among the mnny who saw Frere Jacques operate was the famous Raw, wlio carried his method into Holland and practised it with amazing success. He never published any account of it himself, though he admitted several to his operations; but after his death his successor, Albimis, gave the world a very circumstantial detail of all the pro- cesses, and mentions, as one of Raw's improvements, that he used to open the bladder between its neck and the ureter. But either Albinus, in his relation, or Raw himself in his supposition, was mistaken, since it is almost impossible to cut the bladder in that part upon the common staff without also wounding the neck {Sharp, in Operations and Critical Inquiry). Raw's method was objection- able, even when accomplished, as the urine could not readily escape, and it became extravasated around the rectum, so as to produce terrible mischief. There is little doubt that Raw's really successful plan was only an imitation of Frere Jacques' second and improved method. The following observation by Dr. Yelloly re- specting Raw I consider to be important. " The success which attended Raw's practice is stated to have been unexampled in the history of surgery for he i? represented as having cut 1547 patients without ever losing one. The account is altogether incredible, but I am surprised that the refutation of It, which IS afforded to a certain extent by the celebrated Camper, the successor of Raw and Al- binus in the Chair of Anatomy and Surgery at Leyden, has been entirely overlooked by those authors who have had occasion to notice the cir- cumstance, for that distinguished physician informs us that on examining the register kept at the Col- lege of Surgeons of Amsterdam by order of the magistracy, he found that Raw lost 4 cases out of 22 whom he cut for the stone in that city, or one in fave and a half {Demonsirationum Anatomico i'athulogicarnm, liber si'citndus,'p. 14). Camper tells us that ho had no other opportunity of ascertaining by unquestionable documents the result of Raw's operations, but this fact is sufficient to show how little dependence was to be placed on Raw's asse- verations of his success." (See J. Yelloly, M.D., in Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xv.) Dr. Bambcr was the first man in England who made a trial of Raw's method on the living sub- ject, which he did in St. Bartholomew's Hospital Chesclden, who had been in the habit of practising the high operation, gladly abandoned it on receiving the account of Raw's plan and success; and a few days after Bamber, he began to cut in this way in i5t. Thomas s Hospital. Cheselden, finding that le lost many patients in imitating Raw according to the directions given by Albinus, began a new manner of operating, which he thus describes: 1 first make as long an incision as I can, beginnine near the place where the old operation ends, and cutting down between the mnsculus accelera or urinfe and erector penis, and by the side of the ...testmum rectum. I then feel for the staff, hold! mg down the gut all the while with one 'o t vo fmger, of my left hand, and cut upon it in tl at 211 part of the urethra which lies beyond the corno,., oavernosn,andin the prostate gland, cuttingTn below upwards, to avoid wounding the cut " A gorget wn, then passed along the%roove of the staff into the bladder, and the forceps over it in the usual way. Although the method of operating now adverted to was always preferred by Cheselden, after the trial of others, yet, by an extraordinary mistake in Dr. Douglas's History of the Lateral Operation, so clearly exposed by my friend Dr. Yelloly (see Med. Chirurg. Trans., vol. xv.), it is represented that Cheselden's last and most improved plan con- sisted, after the external incision had been made, in first passing the knife into the groove of the rostrated or straight part of the staff, through the side of the bladder immediately above the prostate, and bringing its point afterwards along the same groove in the direction downwards and forwards, or towards himself. Cheselden is thought to have divided that part of the sphincter of the bladder which lay upon the prostate gland, of which he next cut the outside of one half obliquel}', ac- cording to the direction and whole length of the urethra within it, and finished the internal incision by dividing the membranous portion of the urethra on the convex part of his staff". (See Appendix to the History of the Lateral Operation, by J. Douglas, 1731.) ' J s , " When he first began to practise this method," continues Douglas, " Cheselden cut the very same parts the contrary way; that is, his knife entered first the muscular part of the urethra, which he divided laterally from the pendulous part of the bulb to the apex, or first point of the prostate gland, and from thence directed his knife upward and backward all the way into the bladder ; as we may read in the Appendix he lately published to the fourth edition of his Book of Anatomy. But some time after, he observed that in that manner of cutting, the bulb of the urethra lay too m.uch in the wa}', the groove of the staff was not so easily found, and the intestinum rectum was in more danger of being wounded." (See Appendix to Hist, of Lateral Operation, p. 12. Dr. T. Thomson's ed. p. 30.) " The least consideration will show," says Dr. Yelloly, " that this account of Cheselden's im- proved, operation is perfectly irreconcileable with that which is given by Cheselden himself in the Appendix to his fourth edition of his Anatomy ■ or by M. Morand with his sanction and authority." [The error committed by Douglas is now uni- versally admitted; it does not, therefore, seem necessary to retain in the present edition the copious extracts which Mr. Cooper has given from Dr. Yelloly's Memoir.'[ According to Dr. Yelloly, " Heister seems to have been one of the first authors who took Dr. Douglas's representation as demonstrative of what Cheselden's improved operation of lithotomy was and he gives by deduction from Dr. Douglas's ac- count a 'progression of three different modes of operation employed by Cheselden, which he de- signates as the modus primus, alter, and tertius. The first was that in which injection was employed • the second, that mentioned in tlio Appendi.x to the fourth edition of Cheselden's Anatomy, and quoted by Morand, and from which I venture to think that Cheselden never deviated ; the third, that described by Douglas as Cheselden's latest im- provement, but which I presume to conclude was one that never entered into his contemplation." But (as Dr. Yelloly adds) Heister very fairly admits what it may be thought should have excited r 2