VARIX. 90S varices irregulnrly mid permits the meinlirane of the vein to project so as to form sacculated dilata- tions. The hypertrophy of varices is occasioned by the development or deposit of new material. The fibrous te-xture of the outer coat is sometimes so increased that it cannot be separated fi'om the areolar tissue around. Such veins do not collapse when cut across, and the elastic and contractile tissue of their middle coat undergoes degeneration and paralysis. Such veins no longer yield, like healthy veins, to forces applied to their interior or to their walls. It is in these cases that the surrounding cellular tissue undergoes such impor- tant changes—becoming thickened and condensed. The cells of the adipose tissue become infiltrated with a dull white pellucid lardaceous serum, and the fine areolar tissue is so much condensed around the veins, that a crisp feeling is given to the knife when dissecting them out. The func- tion of absorption through the coats is in abej'- ance, but we do not know what alteration the blood undergoes within them. A vein may be uniformly dilated or may be bulged at some parts and unchanged at others ; and this last irregular condition it is which consti- tutes true varix. Many classifications of varix have been at- tempted. Anchal recognised six vanetit-s of the affection. Briquet three, and RokitansUy two, which, he adds, merge into one another, and are often simultaneousl}- present in the same vessel. The vein, being dilated and elongated^ assumes, according to Rokitanskj', a winding course, bulging more at one side than at the other ; while projec- tions of the venous wall form along the interior and give it a partitioned appearance. The second kind presents itself when a large lateral sac forms at a limited spot, and is connected with a canal of the vein by a greater or less opening. The valves for a time continue to increase with the vein and then cease to enlarge, so that they become no longer capable of closing the vessel, and either remain tense across its channel, or turn, contrary to the usual dispnsition, towards the periphery, or, giving way, hang in shreds in the Ijlood-streara, till they finally shrink and well-nigh disappear. These circumstances show that the valves cannot prevent the action of the column of blood on the walls of the dilated veins distant from the heart, as Briquet supposed they could. Phlebolites—the result of a stasis and coagula- tion of the blood—are occasionally met with in varicose veins, especially in those of the abdomen and pelvis ; and calcareous concretions and strati- fied coagula, similar to those seen in abdominal aneurismal sacs, have been met vvith. The sacs containing these at times get closed, so as to be shut ofl^ from the channel of the vessel, and de- generate into fibrous capsules. The canal of the vein may, however, get blocked up and its vari- cose condition increased by small coagula, which may either become dissolved and washed away for ever in the torrent of the circulation, or be replaced by others whose presence may give rise to phle- bitis. The vein is said to be less elastic and not so compressible at the points occupied by these coagula. Acute inflammation, with the effusion of its ordinary products, occasionally occurs in varix. Pus may be thus effused, or the vessel may be obliterated as in phlebitis. The latter termina- tion is of course the more favourable one, and that which entails no evil results except those due to the arrested circulation through the vessel. A chronic form of inflammation, leading to hyper- trophy of the coats and their agglutination to the parts around, is more common than acute action of an inflammatory character. Ulceration, too, may become established, and, beginning either in the coat of the vessel or in the surrounding tissue, may perforate the vein and give rise to fatal hajmorrhage. The valves, being insufficient, allow of bleeding taking place from the proximal side. Delpech accounts for this ulceration by ascribing it to the pressure of the clot within the vessel. So, too, he explains the comparative rarity of haemorrhage in these cases, as the clot has closed or obliterated the vessel before it is opened. Haller and Clive, however, report cases of fatal haemorrhage from the jugular ; Portal and Mor- gagni from the vena azy-gos ; Portal from the subclavian ; Araussat from the saphena ; Kyle of Dundee, Plasse, and others from the pudendal veins; Mitchel of Pliiladelphia from the veins of the stomach ; and Velpeau from those of the leg. Mr. Adams, of the London Hospital, has well sho wn the advantage of elevating the limb in cases of profuse haemorrhage from varicose veins of the_ leg, as, from the valves being destioyed, there is nothing to bear the column of bl.iod. Elevation generally succeeds in temporarily arrest- ing the bleeding, and the permanent closure of the vessel is accomplished by compress and bandage. The stasis .^nd sub-acute inflammation to which varices are liable give rise to osderaa, hypertrophy, induration, and ulceration in the cellular tissue and skin of the limb, causing them to coalesce, and makes the ulcer so often formed in connection with this condition peculiarly difficult to heal (see Varicose Ulcer). The skin in these cases changes its colour and becomes red, and ultimately of a dark brown or livid hue. Causes, predisposing and cxciling.—The ancients ascribed the varicosity of a vein to its containing bad or efl^ete blood. In modern times mechanical obstructions are generally looked upon as the most common cause of varices, though some writers, asChaussier, Diflpech, Samuel Cooper, and Briquet, deny altogether the general influence of such causes. Obstructions may occur at an}' part of the venous system ; but the nearer they are placed to its centre, the more extensive will the resulting afl'ection be. It is not necessary that such obstruc'- tion be complete. If the channel of the main trunk be reduced below that size which is neces- sary for the transmission of its tributary streams, a state of dilatation in the peripheral vessels will in all probability follow. If the collateral circula- tion is with difliculty established, from the exis- tence of few branches leading off the obstructed vessel, so much more surely will a varicose con- dition arise. A tumor within the thorax or in the axilla will in general be found to be the cause of varix of the veins of the head, neck, or upper extremit}^; and a continued patency of the um- bilical vein, with an anastomosis existing between it and the superficial abdominal veins, is a fruitful source of varices on the abdominal wall. " Caput MedusfD " is an appellation which has been applied to varices in the last-mentioned position when they have attained a great development and pecu- liar arrangement. The long maintoinnee of the