860 URINE, RETENTION OF. sion of all retentions of urine into two classes; one depending upon an impediment or obstniciion at the neck of the bladder, or in the course of the urethra ; the other upon causes which operate by weakening the bladder itself, and lessening the force of the detrusor nrinae, and other muscles concerned in expelling the urine. Thus the vesical orifice of the urethra may be blocked up with clotted blood, or be obstructed by a caUulus, or by the pressure of ft neighbouring abscess ; or by' a'projection of a portion of enlarged prostate. The membranous or spongy parts of the canal may be the seat of strictures, or serve as a lodgment for a small calculus; and the bladder may be weakened by over-distension, or paralysed from the effects of certain injuries and diseases of the brain, spinal cord, pelvis, sacrum, &c. In the female it may be caused by the pressure of a gravid or misplaced uterus. There is only one particular case which cannot enter into this classification; it is the in- complete retention of urine, arising from a wound or rupture of the fundus of the bladder; but this is excessively rare, and almost invariably is associated with severe injury to the pelvis or abdomen. (See Bladder ) Every case of retention of urine demands prompt assistance; but when the disorder presents itself in its complete form, the mischief of delay is of the most serious nature ; for, if the bladder re- main preternaturally distended, it not only loses its contractile power, but if it be not artificially relieved, the urethra behind the obstruction gives way and extravasation of urine takes place. (See Urine, Extravasation of.) It is most com- monly in urethral stricture tliat complete retention does takes place ; for when the cause is hypertro- pliied prostate obstructing the neck of the bladder, some urine generally issues, the retention is in- complete, and fatal consequences are not so immi- nent as in the former condition. In very excep- tional cases, the bladder has been known to burst, or, speaking more accurately, its coats have given way through ulceration, and urine has been driven either into'the abdominal cavity or into the cellu- lar connection in the pelvis around the base of the viscus; in either case fatal peritonitis rapidly occurrmg. Trcalment of Retention of Urine—When com- plete, and especially when the symptoms are at all urgent, the catheter is the first and generally the oiilv means required to afford relief. there are three principal conditions m which we meet with its occurrence. In organic stric- ture of the urethra,—in inflammation of the posterior part of the urethra and prostate gland, as a consequence of gonorrhoea, when probably- acute inflammation and temporary enlargement of the prostate has some share in the difficulty,-— and in the hypertrophied prostate of patients who are advanced in life. The subjects of the first form are generally men in the middle term of life; those of the second arc most commonly young; and those of the third are always elderly men. \' RHentim incasesof Organic Stricture.—Tem- porary and slight attacks of inability to pass water are usually overcome in subjects of organic stric- ture by hot fomentations or by the hip bath. But when the obstruction is obstinate, and the bath has been found insufficient to relieve, it is in most cases desirable to resort to the catheter. And in nine cases out of ten it is the best and most desirable remedy to apply without delay of any kind. Nevertheless, it is quite true that the patient's sufferings may be greatly ameliorated by large and repeated doses of opium, and that if these be persevered in, he will probably obtain relief in the course of some hours, twenty-four, thirty-six, or more. This, however, is not effected ,without much exhaustion of the system, and over- distension of the bladder. Its relief is not to be compared to that which is afforded by a well- passed catheter. Only if the operator fails to pass one, if he cannot do it without seriously damaging the urethra, should opium be solely trusted in to relieve retention; and then doubtless it is much to be preferred in the two alternatives named. It is right to say that Mr. Skey believes there is nothing at all comparable to it in the great majority of cases." For nij'self, I am bound to confess I prefer the following plan as the rule in these cases. If the patient is suffering from painful distension, and the bladder is evidently full, although not necessarily large or extending above the pubes, since in cases of stricture it is often preternaturally contracted, I should first take a b-.mgie of medium size and pass it along the urethra until the situation of the stricture is re- vealed. This will probably be from 41 to 6 inches from the external meatus, the most favourite situa- tion for stricture ; I then take a very fine gum- elastic catheter smaller than a No. 1, being careful to ascertain that it is pervious, and endeavour to insinuate it without a stilet. It is often successful, and it gives no pain. But if this fails I apply a silver catheter of about the same size, and passing it to the spot, commence by careful and very gentle exploration of each aspect of the urethral wall to find the orifice of the stricture and to pass it on- wards through it into the bladder. If it does not pass after a short time those precautions and ad- juncts should be adopted, if need he, which have been already detailed under the head of " Treat- ment of difficult cases of Stricture." (See Strio Ti'RES OP THE Urethra.) Very rarely does failure to traverse safely the passage occur in carefal and fairly practised hands. If, however, we do not succeed; if under the influence of opium or of chloroform, the retention still remains, the question of opening the urethra or bladder by some operative procedure has next to be considered. There are several methods by which this hiw been accomplished. 1. By " forcin.cr the stricture with a catheter. 2. By incision into the urethra behind the seat of stricture. 3. By puncturing the bladder; which may be done in three ditferent ways. , The first mode, or that of forcing a stout ana medium sized silver catheter through or !'>' side of the stricture, and onwards into the bladaer, may be regarded as obsolete. It is an imperfect, uncertain, and hazardous proceeding. The second mode is that by which the urettira is laid open from the perineum, just .«"'^"° to the anus. There are two ways ol doing tnis. The first, in which a dissection is earned down i the stricture, and through it, if possible, tm makinu' a way into the urethra behind; t'?^ "'"f^ in which an opening is made directly mto urethra behind the stricture, followed or iW "! division of the latter, according to the judgmciH the operator. The former proceeding, or that of