•272 LUPUS, Lupus Is seated in the dermoid textuio, the result, according to Wedl [Rttdimetiis of Patho- logical Histology, Syd. Soc. p. 383), of a new for- mation of connective tissue radiating from a point, and subsequently accompanied with suppuration. The disease commences liive a reddish nodule in the skin, having no defined limits, and soon in- creases in size. The section of one of these nodules shows the tissue of the coriuni softened by an infiltrat'on, expanded and succulent. On minute examination, the areola; in the true sub- stance of the corium will be found more or less distended, and filled with young connective tissue elements. The essential nature, therefore, of what has been described as the "lupous efflor- escence " consists in a new formation of connective tissue in the corium, which grows sometimes out- wards, sometimes inwards into the subjacent organs. In the former case the corium and epi- dermis are broken through, and an ulcerated spot appears, on whose surface pus is usually formed, whilst the new-growth continues to advance in the substance of the corium. When the suppurative process commences at the surface of the corium, and the superjacent epidermis is gradually thrown off, the ulcerous lupus is produced. On attentively examining the process set up prior to the ulcerative absorption of the epidermic layers, the following phenomena will be remarked. In some point of the attenuated and delicate in- tegument investing the nose, cheek, or lip, a minute yellowish speck appears, surrounded by a reddish halo. The point of the skin corresponding to this tiny abscess is removed by absorption. A mode of ulceration is at length established which is generally superficial, not extending beyond the areolar tissU3 of the derma, and, though accom- panied with preternatural redness, yet without any notable swelling of surrounding parts. It is , characterised by its ragged edges, on a level with tlie base; by its pale mammillary surface, whence issues that peculiar secretion which rapidly con- cretes on exposure to the air into greyish-yellow crusts ; and, lastly, by its being the seat of hot smarting pain and occasional pruritus. The crusts are soon detached, and fresh ones reproduced to supply their place; the affection creeping on mean- while with insidious certaint}-. After having subsisted for some time the original type of the disease is modified, and in some mea- sure obscured; the surface acquires a pink glassy aspect, and loses the papillary appearance it origi- nally presented. When situate in a part where there is much loose areolar tissue, the adjunct tex- tures become indurated, condensed, and assume a dusky red or purplish hue. Ulcers of this kind differ extremely one from another in their degree of virulence. If the nose is primarily invaded, and particularly the inferior portion of the septum, as frequently happens, the ulceration advances by imperceptible steps, corrod- ing and consuming every tissue, muscle, and carti- lage down to the very bone, which at times par- ticipates in the devastation. The mutilation thus produced is often hideous and irreparable. Tliat this is not purely a local malady seems further ascertained from the obstinacy with which it resists topical agents. I have seen nearly every •lescription of stimulant tried, and myself employed powerful caustics, but never have known any per- manent benefit accrue, unless measures have been conjointly taken to modify the state of the system at large. An opinion is entertained by some medical men that this species of lupus must run a certain course, or exhaust itself, ere its career can be put a stop to by any method of art. This is based, however, rather on imperfect truth than on fundamental error. When the disease is long left uncontrolled, a morbid habit is superinduced, which ordinary means fail to eradicate. But if measures be taken at an early stage to alter and thus amend that pecxdiar condition of the sj'stem tipon which the ulcerative process seems to depend, or with which it is associated, we have every reason to expect that that course will be materially abridged, and much mutilation and disfigurement prevented. Now, the chief indication is to invigorate the system by a light nourishing diet, residence in a pure dry air, free out-door exercise; due attention being paid to the state of the cutaneous exhalation and the alvine evacuations. Much benefit will be derived in many cases by substituting for a stimu- lating animal diet one composed of farinaceous articles and milk. The patient must strictly ab- stain from fermented liquors; have occasional re- course to bathing, particularly sea-bathing, should the strength permit; the employment of the douche, and to gentle laxatives. Various alterative and tonic medicines will each in its turn, according to circumstances, constitute valuable auxiliaries. Cod- liver oil has been found beneficial when given in moderate doses, and its use persevered in for a length of time. On the whole, owing to the close affinity subsisting between this disease and scro- fula, the remedies chiefly indicated are the prepa- rations of iodine, such as the iodide of potassium or of sodium; of iron, such as the tincture of perchloride or the saccharated carbonate; and the vegetable tonics, either alone or conjoined with mineral acids or with chloride of calcium. When a visible melioration is perceptible in the general condition of the patient, when the different functions are properly performed, then is the fa- vourable time for resorting to those topical remedies which act, not exactly as caustics, but as powerful alteratives of the organic relations of the part, as modifiers of diseased action. Among these arsenic ranks high. Sir E. Home was in the practice of employing an aqueous solution of arsenious acid. Dr. Macfarlane likewise advocates the use of the arsenical solution, because he has never known it produce local mischief or constitutional disturbance. His formula prescribes six grains to the ounce of distilled water. I can from experience attest its efficacy. The favourite application of Dupuytren was a powder consisting of one part of arsenious acid, finely pulverised, in ninet3'-nine parts of calomel. The chloride of antimony has been found to answer well in certain cases applied as follows:—The whole extent of the affected part is to be touched with a pencil imbued with the chloride ; about a couple of minutes after, the pain thus produced is to be allayed by laying on compresses dipped in cold water. In this way the energetic chloride is at once transformed into an inert subchloride. This operation is to be repeated once every ten days, imtil the sore is cicatrised. Mons. Cazenave, per- ceiving that erysipelas usually exercised a healmg iuduence on sores of this descripfon, ascertamed that an analogous action could be produced by means of biniodide of mercury. He directed an