[CO] lOD In administering iodine, caro must be taken not to combine it with substances calculated to decompose it. The liquid preparations are gene- rally given by Dr. Coindet in syrup and ^^ater. When ill effects arise from its too violent ope- ration, such as pains in the stomach, chest, bowels, defective vision, loss of sleep, palpitations, tremors, convulsions, &c., or even inconveniences of a less dangerous kind, the medicine should be imme- diately discontinued. Iodine has obtained con- siderable reputation for its efficacy in bronchocele, scrofula, v rious chronic tumours, diseased joints, enlargements of the breast, bursa, mucosse, tes- ticle, &c. [Iodine (lochim) is reputed a powerful alterative, that is, a medicine which usually, without sensible operation, induces such a change in the nutrition of the body as eventually to restore healthy func- tion. It thus acts as a resolvent in various chronic maladies accompanied with induration or enlarge- ment, as in thickening of membranes such as the periosteum, and in benign tumours. It has been found beneficial in scrofulous dis- eases, visceral and glandular enlargements dis- appearing under its use. Thus, in the chronic mammary tumour described by Sir A. Cooper, it has proved of service, alleviating pain and keeping the disease in check. In indurated enlargement of the parotid, of the testicle and of the lymphatic glands, it has been found a valuable medicine. It lias been extolled as a remedy for bronchocele ; here the morbid growth generally diminishes under its use, but seldom subsides altogether. In checking or controlling the ulcerative process, iodine, according to Mr, Key, is one of the most powerful remedies we possess:—" The most active phagedenic ulcers that threaten the destruction of parts, are often found to yield in a surprising manner to the influence of this medicine, and to 1 ■ on a healthy granular appearance." (^Med. CJiii: Trews., vol. xix.) Iodine and its preparations have been employed advantageously in chronic skin diseases, in old ununited fractures, in order to promote the depo- sition of ossific matter, in syphilitic affections of the bones and adjunct textures, as also in caries. There can be no doubt that in constitutional syphilitic affections, such as the hard periosteal node, iodide of potassiimi exerts a powerful ir.- ffuence in abating pain and swelling. Overbeck, a German author, ascribes its efficacy in such cases to its solvent action on the albuminous deposit occurring in the syphilitic dyscrasy. As a topical remedy, iodine in the form of tincture has been resorted to successfully in lupus. By applying it not only to the ulcerous suiface. but to the parts around, the process of ulceration is generally stopped, and cicatrisation takes place. It has in like manner been employed in the in- stance of chilblains, erysipelas, inflan.ed absorbentr., carbuncle, whitlow, diseases of joints, neuralgia. Where it is desirable to avoid discolouration of the skin, an ammoninted tincture according to the subjoined formula, will be found an available sub stitute for the ordinary tincture :—Ry. lodi, 5ij.; Potass. lodi, 3iv. ; Sp. Vin. rect., ."iij. 5ii. ; Liq. Ammonia;, ^vj. 3iv. In the treatment ol housemaid's knee, Mr. Rod well speaks highly ol keeping a strong solution of iodide of potassium constantly applied to the part, rest being enjoined. "By this means the swelling is said to subside more rapidly than under any other mode of treat- ment." (Med. Times, vol. xxi. p. 144.) A powerful escharotic is formed by dissolving 60 grains of iodine <ind the like quantity of iodide of potassium in 120 grains of glycerine. In lupus and secondary sypiiilitic ulcers tliis is to be laid on the surface, and covered with a thin layer of gutta- percha, and allowed to remain from one to twenty- four hours, according as the patient can bear it. When removed it is to be replaced by a cold poultice. Iodide of potassium orof sodium maybe exhibited in the dose of from three to ten grains, twice or thrice daily, dissolved in from two to four ounces of water, about a touple of hours after a meal. The addition of half a drachm of aromatic spirit of ammonia to each dose tends to promote its effi- cacy. Iodide of ammonium may, in like manner, be administered in doses of from three to five grains. Where the patient's constitution is en- feebled, the iodide may be exhibited in some bitter infusion, or in decoction of Sarsaparilla. It may also be given in combination with cod-liver oil. The Iodide of Potassium is the preparation in ordinary use. It is better to begin with doses of two or three grains thrice daily, and to increase the quantity by the addition of a grain to the dose every five or six days, till doses of ten or fifteen grains have been reached. If continued too long in the same dose it loses its effect, and in this way its full beneficial influence is often missed and the remedy discredited without sufficient cause. Again, if given in too large doses at first it is apt to dis- agree, and to produce headache and feverishness with running from the eyes and nose, all the symptoms, in fact, of acute coryza, and even occasionally salivation. In persons peculiarly sensitive to these influences, the iodide of sodium may be substituted with advantage for the iodide of potassium, as being less irritating find more readily tolerated, but even with this it may be necessary sometimes to begin witli not more thaa half a grain or a grain for a dose. In the British Pharmacopceiaare contained three preparations of iodine, namely, liniment, tincture, and compound ointment. These may be advan- tageously employed in various cases of enlargement, and affections of the periosteum and joints. The linementura lodi is a rather powerful irritant, and must not be used too freely, or it will cause severe vesication. The liniment contains 2^ ounces of Iodine to the pint, and is five times stronger than the Tincture. Tincture of iodine, pure or diluted with water, is now the approved injection in the treatment of hydrocele. (See IIvdhocele.) It is likewise used for injecting into sinuses, so as to induce contraction and obliteration ; into the cavity of serous cysts for the same purpose ; and into dropsica joints, in order to promote absorption and check further effusion.] Alexander Urc. BiBLiooRAPHY.—See Brera, Sapgio Clinico suU' loiiio, e sulle differenti sue combin.izioni, Padua, 1822; R. Coindet, On the Uffects of Iodine in Uronchocile and Scrofula; a trnnslution of Ins thiee Memoirs, by Dr../. R. Johnson, Lond. I82I; W. T. Galrdner, lissny on tlie Kfftcts of Iodine on the Hu- man Constitution, Lond. 1824 ; Medical Hesearclies on the Klfects of Iodine, l)y Alex. Maiison. 8vo. Lond. 1825 G. A. Lugol, Mc'm. sur I'Lmploi de I'lodo dans Ics Maladies scrofuleuscs, Svo. I'ans, 1829 ; E. 0. Ilocken, On the Comparative Value of the Vtc- parations of Mercury and iodine, Kdin.