310 MORTIFICATION. plaint. This diet is geiierallj' productive of more real benefit than the whole class of cordial and stimulating medicines. However, when the pa- tient is much weakened, the mortification of the part affected is complete, and the disorder is spreading to others, some of the following remedies may be ordered : ammonia, aromatic confection, .-ether, &c. In general, however, wine is better, and especially sherry. , • ■ [Sir Benjamin Brodie is emphatic on this pomt; tbat the stomach must not be fatigued with tonic drugs, so as to interfere with the digestion of good food; and that the best stimulant is wine or brandy. Amongst drugs. Sir Benjamin speaks well of am- monia in senile gangrene, but gives a caution against giving it iu too great quantities, or too often.] Of all the medicines hitherto recommended lor the stoppage of mortification, none ever acquired such a character for efficacy as the Peruvian bark. It is said, that this remedy often stops, m a very evident and expeditious manner, the course of the disorder. Being a very powerful tonic, it is thought to operate by strengthening the system, and thus maintaining in every part the necessary tone for resisting the progress of mortification. But, whatever may be its mode of acting, the ad- vocates for this medicine contend that it ought to be employed in almost all cases of mortification, as soon as the violence of the inflammatory symp- toms has been appeased. It was Mr. Rushworth, a surgeon at Northamp- ton, who first urged this doctrine in the year 1715. Amyand and Douglas, two surgeons m London, soon afterwards confirmed the virtue of the re- medy. Mr. Shipton, another English surgeon, also described, in the Philosophical Transactions, the Rood effects which he saw produced by it. In the Medical Essays of Edinburgh, Drs. Monro and Paisley published several cases, illustrative of its efficac}^ We are there informed, that when its exhibition was interrupted, the separation of the eschars was retarded, and that, on the medicine beii.K resorted to again, the separ.tioa went on again more quickly. Since this period, all prac- titioners, in England and elsewhere, have em- ployed bark very freely in the treatment of morti- fication; and the exaggerated statements of its effects led to its exhibition in all cases ot this na- ture, without discrimination of the varying states of the general health and local disorder in the different stages of the complaint, and without any reference to its causes and nature, which are sub- ject to variety. , , , , r We cannot indeed doubt, that bark has fre- ciuently had the most salutary action, in cases ot mortification, though sometimes it may probably have hr,d imputed to it effects which were en- tirely produced by nature. The following obser- vation, made by Dr. Thomson, is highly worthy of recollection: "In attending to the eilects sup- posed to result from the operation of the externa and internal remedies which are daily employed for the cure of mortification, there are two facts, well ascertained, wliich appear to me to bo pe- culiarly deserving of your regard. The lirst oi these is, that mortification often stops sponta- neously, witliout any assistance whatever from medicine; the second, that it often begins, and ci.iitinues to spread, or even, after it has stopped ior a while, recommences nnd proceeds to a fatal ter- mination, in spite of the best directed efforts of the healing art." (On Itifummation, p. 557.) It is quite wrong to prescribe bark in every in- stance; for there are many cases in which it is unnecessary, some in which it does harm, and others in which it is totally inefficacious. It is a medicine obviously of no service, when mortifi- cation arises from an external cause, and is the only complaint in a healthy, strong constitution. It is equally unnecessary, when the sphacelus is of the dry sort, and has ceased to spread, at the same time, that the living margin appears to be in a state of inflammation, without any universal debility. But it deserves particidar notice, that the circumstances of each individual case are liable to such variety, that though bark may be at first unnecessary, it may afterwards be in- dicated. When mortification is complicated with serious disorder of the functions of the abdominal viscera, a frequent case, bark is manifestly pernicious. Here, the indication is to correct the state of the stomach and bowels with mild opening medicines, and especially calomel. When this has been done, if bark should be indicated by any of the circum- stances already pointed out, it may be safely ad- ministered. Sometimes mortification is accompanied with a low typhoid kind of fever, which, whether tlie cause or the consequence of the local mischief, may require the exhibition of bark. However, mortification may be attended with common inflammatory fever, and then the Hying margin is generally inflamed and painful. This is partiailaily the case when mortification is the consequence of genuine acute inflammation, or of an external injury, in a healthy subject. Here, bark must obviously be injurious. Still it is wrong to regard this medicine as invariably hurtful whenever sphacelus is the effect of inflammation. It has already been observed, that the inflamma- tion frequently has less share in the origin of the disorder, than some incidental cause, which may require the exhibition of bark. Even when mor- tification is the pure eftect of inflammation, great prostration of strength may subsequently arise, and indeed docs mostly take place at a certain period of the disorder. In this circumstance, the voice of experience loudly proclaims the utility of bark, though its exliibilion would liave been at first useless or hurtful. While genuine infl.immatory fever and local inflammation, are coexistent with mortification, mild antiphlogistic means are iiseful; but great caution is requisite, since, in humid gau- crene, the inflan.matory state soon changes into one in which the great feature is prostration of strength. ^Vhen tliere is mere prostration of strength without any symptom of gastric disorder, or of inflammation or typhoid fever bark is evidently proper, though seldom effectual alone: diaphoretic .nnd nervous medicines being also nt-cessary, opium, wine, camphor, ammonia, brandy, &c. We meet with one species ot mortification, in which the patient experiences severe pain in the part, unpreceded by any appearance ol inflamma- Zn Here bark is never of use, and opium is the „u.,diciue in which we sliould P'-'.-P"'^ j'"';, f.^'j. Bark sometimes occasions purging, and the i must bo immediately di.coiitniued unles tha hurtful effect can be prevented by the "dd.t on f a few drops of laudanum to each dose, or bj cm-