8 • INFLAr a perversion of growth and nutrition, with hyper- ffimia and exudation." But it must be confessed that there is no defi- nition which can be framed which is perfectly satisfactory. It is most difficult to draw the line between inflammation and some processes which are normal and healthy. The term, simple as it seems, may be made to include a host of pheno- mena, most discordant in realit}', produced by the most opposite causes and relieved by the most opposite measures. The student, too, will be per- plexed by finding that, whilst some authors of repute in the English school almost deify inflam- mation, and treat it not only as if it were the uni- versal disease, but as if it were the means of reparation after all diseases, other writers ignore its pretensions and almost deny its existence.. On the one side let us hear Mr. Travers :— " Inflammation is either primarily or secondarily associated with so large a proportion of diseases incident to the animal body, that it is to be re- garded in a generic sense as comprehending almost all the varieties of organic change in its subdivi- sions. To dispute about the universality of its agency is as idle as it would be to q^uestion its existence, although by some the term may have been from ignorance erroneously employed; or from an affected scepticism, a love of paradox, or an ambition of novelty, by others have been dis- carded." {On Inflammation, 1844, p. 23.) On the contrary, Andral said that the term inflammation was employed to express a variety of phenomena, which have little or no connection with each other; that it had become vague, arbi- trary, and of no fixed value; and that, lil<e an old piece of money which had lost all trace of inscrip- tion or effigy, it ought forthwith to be put out of circulation. {Anatomie Patliohgique, torn. 1. p. 9, Paris, 1829.) " Our notions of inflammation," says Virchow, " have undergone an essential, change. Whilst tintil quite recently it was the custom to look upon inflammation as a real entity, as a process every- where identical in its essence, after I made my observations no alternative remained but to divest the notion of inflammation of all that was ontolo- gical in it, and no longer to look upon the process as one differing in its essence from other patholo- gical processes, but only to regard it as one differ- ing in its form and course." {Cellular Pathology, ly Frank Chance, M.B.: London 1860, p. 384.) _ The first difficulty in the definition and diagnosis of inflammation consists in the fact that hyper- £emia, or local determination of blood, which is an essential symptom and instrument of inflammation, is not only not pecidiar to inflammation, but is the commonest possible condition in many diseases, which are not inflammatory, and in most natural processes which are attended by energy or rapidity of action. Thus any one would be led into error if he were to take the old fourfold combination of heat, pain, swelling, and redness, as proof of inflam- mation; or if he were to adopt John Hunter's defi- nition :—" I shall call by the name of inflammation whatever produces the following local effects—viz. pain, swelling, and redness, in a given time, and these dependeiit on, or the effects of, one imme- diate cause." {On the Blood, &c. chap. ii. § 6.) For every one of these, which are the signs of hyperemia, may exist under conditions which it would be absurd to call inflammatory; for instance. in the brain and eye of the over-worked student; in the spinal cord in tetanus; and in the female breast and ovaries when in the active discharge of their natural functions; and in any vascular organ whatever, if excited by an extraordinary stimu- lant. If we seek to amend this definition of inflam- mation by saying that pain, redness, and swelling, must, to constitute inflammation, be accompanied by other physical conditions, or at least by a ten- dency to them—for example, by exudation or by structural change—then we open up a second diffi- culty, which has much vexed pathological writers. If, for example, an exudation rapidly degene- rating into pus, and attended with heat, pain, redness, and swelling, be considered inflam- matory, is a similar exudation to be considered inflammatory if minus the heat, pain, redness, and swelling? This is a question with which readers of John Hunter are familiar; and they will re- member that he asserts that no suppuration can take place which is not preceded by inflammation ; and that " collections of matter which occur with- out inflammation are not suppurations." We may pass from these logomachies, or wordy battles of the last generation, and come to a question which has been disputed in our own. day, and on which the minds of surgeons are by no means made up. This is the question, whether repair after injury is to be considered an inflam- matory process or not; — whether, for example, the beneficial process by which wounds are united should be included in the same category with that diseased process of adhesion by which the iris may be glued to the cornea, or the lungs to the inside of the ribs. If we consult John Hunter, we shall find him inost emphatically affirming the doctrine of repair with- out inflammation, and devoting an entire chapter of his great work on the Blood to the subject. He speaks of the alteration of structure by violence as " requiring only the most simple change m the natural action of the part to restore it." He describes injuries, such as strains, bniises, and fractures of bone or tendon, in which the skin is not divided, as seldom inflaming; whereas, inju- ries attended with skin wound, "commonly both inflame and suppurate." Yet he says that an injury of the former kind may, under some cir- cumstances, inflame and suppurate; and, conversely, that if an injury of the second kind be " pro- perly treated and united by the first intention," both inflammation and suppuration will be pre- vented. He describes " mrion by the first inten- tion "— or " immediate union," as it was after- wards called by Macartney — as " taking place so soon after the injury that it may be said to be almost immediate." He says that the union is effected by the interposition of the thinnest possible layer of coagulated blood; and that where the quantity of blood is small, and " where all the divided sur- faces can be brought into almost absolute contact, their union will be firm in four-and-twenty hours, as happens in a hare-lip, or wounds of the scalp." In cases of accidental injury he goes on to say, " Whether they be in themselves slight or con- siderable, in whatever situation or part they may have happened, if the salutary processes above described go on readily, no other eftect of injurj^ or irritation, or pain, in consequence of Nature's operations is felt. No universal fever or sym-