passed over the back of the finger, and made to descend by gentle pressure close to the posterior wall of the pharynx. So soon as the instrument is fairly in the canal it should be moved slowly nnd gently on, the patient being enciiuraged to breathe as it is being passed. The bongi" is fre- quently teniporari!}- arrested on a level with tiie cricoid cartilage, but we are not on that account to conchide either that a foreign body is presi'nr, or that a stricture exists there. When any stop- page to the progress of the instrument takes place, the bougie should be gently withdrawn, and in again pushing it onwards we should turn it on its own axis. In general, catlieterism of the cesiipha- gus occasions but little discomfort to the patient, but occasion.nlly the presence of the foreign bodv in the pharynx gives rise to retching, cough, and much struggling. In such cases the operation should, if possible, be delayed till, by education, the parts become more tolerant of such contact. It would he, under ordinary circumstances, an un- pardonable error to pass the bougie into the larynx ; but when it has to be introduced by the nostril, and the patient be an old or feeble lunatic, who fails to give any hint to the surgeon, such an accident may occur. The great embarrass- ment to the breathing which would result, and the escape of air by the tube, would warn the operator of what had taken place. The breathinj; and cough should in such cases be observed, and if any doubt exists, the escape or not of air should be test. d by means of a lighted candle, or a few drops of water should be allowed to run along the tube, when, if it fall into the larynx, the eiTects •will be at once fully apparent. In cases of disease of the CEsophagus, very great gentleness in passing instruments is necessary. ]f any violence is em- ployed there will be great risk of perforating the walls. When the mouth is closed by disease, so that a tube cannot -be introduced, the last molar tooth may be removed so as to make room for its passage, or it may be introduced by the nostril. When the mouth is forcibly closed voluntarily, then chloroform may be employed, the mouth opened, and a perforated gag intro'duced.] CEbOPHAGU.s, Dilatation of the. [Independently of its combination, as before said, with stricture, the oesophagus is on rare occasions the seat of dilatation, and that occasionally to a very great degree. This, as has been already pointed out, may cause difficulty in deglutition. In some cases the whole circumference of the tube is found implicated, and tiie muscular coat atrophied, or on the contrary hypertrophied ; while in other instances the dilatation is con- fined to one side of the canal, and then all the coats may be dilated so as to form a sac, or a sort of hernia of the mucous membrane through the muscular coat may occur, in a way similar to what is occasionally seen in the rectum and bladder. These sacs are most common near the divi.-ion of the trachea, and attain the urci>test sijie where the fibi cs of the inferior cons:rictor muscle run horizontallv. Wtiere a pmicli exists a consideriilile amount of the food may fall into it, and there undergo partial digestion. This gives rise to a feeling of fullnes!. and discomfort iis a rule, followed by vomiting of the contents at an uncertain period. The patient continues to be feebly nourished, but the symptoms are not always consistent, varyini; with Vol. ji. * CESOPHAGUS. 369 the amount of the food which finds its way into the bag, and what passes on into the stomach.] .CEsornAGt;s, Paralysis op the, [Is nn occasional accompaniment of general palsy of an aggravated kind, or may arise from tumors situated at the base of the brain, or at the origin of the pneuumgastiic nerves, or injuries sustained by the same part. Dys- phagia, more or less severe, results. The ab- sence of any discoverable obstruction and the^ presence of general palsy will clearly define the mulady. It must be treated according to its cause. If the patient be full-blooded, and it has come on suddenly, then active purgation and counter-irrita- tion to the nape and spine will be required. In some cases strychnine will give good results; in others tonics, with cold or tepid shower-baths, g'ood food (if necessary introduced through a tube), and attention to the secretions, will best fulfil the ap- parent indications of the case.] CEsophagus, Foreign Bodies in the. Small pointed bodies are most apt to become impacted in the folds of the mucous mem- brane at the root of the tongue and back of the pharynx ; but larger bodies are most fre- quently caught, either at the part of the canal where the pharynx ends in the oesophagus, I.e. just behmd the cricoid cartilage, -or at the lower end, where it passes through the dia- phragm, and just before it enters the stomach. 1 he pain and annoyance are greatest when such bodies are arrested on a level with the cricoid cartilage. The foreign bodies which may be found impacted in the oesophagus are of many varieties, both as to nature, shape, and size ; and the effects they produce will, to a very considerable extent, be modified accordingly. Knives, forks, fidse teeth, needles and pins, articles of food, and such substances as may during its preparation be mixed with and concealed in the food by accident or (lesign--bones, fruit stones, &c.—pieces of money even the handle of a punch-ladle, and a gold watch and seals, have been found impacted in the gullet. The sharpr-r and more angular in form the more dangerou.^ for obvious reasons, such foreign bodies are, and the symptoms which their presence will produce will vary with their nature and the position they occupy. It is occasionally very difficult indeed to detect even considerable masses when they have been for some time impacted in some parts of the Kullet, .and have become em- bedded in Its wall, Sets of fiilse teeth have been thiis so concealed and protected by their position and the way in which the mucous membrane has overlapped them, that the most experienced sur, geons have failed to detect their presence; while on the other hand, it is to be remembered that the passage of an irregular body along the canal mav by the abrasion it creates, cause a sens.uion -is if It still remained, long after it has in reiilitv been removed. With a knowledge of these two tacts, the surgeon is olten much puzzled in his examination of such cases as are now beinir con- sidered. ° Foreign bodie?, if large, may entirely obstruct the oesophagus, and by their (.ressiiie on the wind- pipe embarras-s ilir respiration, or even cause suf lorat.on. Ifsm ill and >,harp fas fi,h.boues, ,,i„s <Ec.) paiii and irritation, followed bv a L-reat r „r B B ■