CftJ TESTICLE, DISE ASES OF THE. proved knowledge of the pathology of these parts, a separation has been made between these two really distinct aiYections. This division has long been insisted on by the French surgeons, who first pointed out the different causes which produce, and the different symptoms which follow, inflammation in these two portions of the testicle. {Velpeau, Diet, de AlCd. t. xxix. article I'esliciih; Ricord, Traili des Afal. vhi. 1838.) The term Orchitis is now limited to an inflammation of the body of the gland, whilst a similar action in the epididymis lias received tlie name of Epididi/milis. Epididi/milis may be caused by a direct injury, but it usually results from some irritation of the urethra or neck of the bladder, such as an urethral discharge, the introduction of a catheter or bougie, the passage of a calculus, inflammation of, or injury to, the prostate gland and base of the bladder, obstruction to the flow of urine in conse- quence of a stricture, &c. The affection usually commences in one testicle, and, as this is recovering, the other often takes on a similar action, but it is rare to find both attacked Binniltaneous!3% If the disease be occasioned by gonorrhoe i, it is seldom during the acute stage, but rather when the discharge is becoming chronic, and the inflammation has reached the prostatic part of the urethra, from which it passes by continuity along the vas deferens to the epidid3'mis ; and, when this is involved, the urethral discharge com- monly ceases, or is much diminished. Since, in many cases, no pain is experienced along the course of the cord, some writers, and amongst them Sir Benjamin Brodie, incline to the belief that there is a dii'ecl translation, or a metastasis, of the inflam- mation from the urethra to the epididymis, but he also admits that there is sometimes an extension of the inflammation of the urethra and vasa deferentia to the testicle." {Lond. Med. Guz. vol. xiii. p. 218.) Sir Astley Cooper's observations have led him to concur entirely in this latter opinion, and Mr. Curling is also inclined to dis- card the theorj' of a metastasis. Occasionally pain along the track of the sperma- tic cord indicates the commencement of the attack, but more commonly tenderness and swelling of the epididymis are the first symptoms; these rapidly increase, and are followed by effusion into the tunica vaginalis, which soon becomes distended, and causes considerable discomfort by its weight and dragging upon the cord, constituting what has been termed an acide hydrocele. The fluid within this serous cavity soon conceals the body of the tes- ticle, which, so long as it can be felt, remains soft and natural to the touch, whilst moderate pressure upon it does not produce pain; the epididymis can usually be well defined, as a hard knotted cord at the posterior and lower part of the scrotum; it is ex- tremely sensitive, and, when touched, a sharp pain is produced, passing up into the groin. Sometimes also the vas deferens may be felt swollen and ten- der whilst lying in the inguinal region. When the tunica vaginalis is mucli inflamed, the skin covering it becomes red, tumid, (Edematous, with its veins prominent and turgid. Tlie dartos tissue is infiltrated with fluid, and the scrotum forms an even uniform swelling of ovoid shape, wliich completely masks the outline of the gland. There is much pain when tlie parts are handled or compressed, as in walking, &c., and, when un- Bupported, intolerable aching is caused in the groin from the great weight of the swelling; if,however, the patient be at rest, and especially in the hori- zontal posture, but little suffering is experienced. Usually the constitutional disturbance is incoii- sideiable, but, if the reverse be the case, or the local pain excessive, the body of the testis is then probably involved also by extension of the inflam- mation into the semiuiferous tubes; this, however, is not of common occurrence. As the disease subsides, the accumulation within the tunica vaginalis is rapidly absorbed, as is also the serous exudation into the cellular tissue of the scrotum; it happens occasionally, though, that the fluid will remain and a hydrocele result. When the testicle can again be made out, it pro- bably will be harder and rather larger than before, owing to congestion of its vessels; and the epididymis will be felt greatly enlarged, especially at its upper and lower extremities, which are generally more swollen than the intervening part of the tube. This thickening will often remain for a length of time after all inflammation has passed away, ai.d, if it persist in or around the globus minor, may produce occlusion more or less complete of the duct, and thus occasion serious impairment to tlie function of the gland ; such is the case, though to a less extent, when the globus major is at fault, and it is not uncommon to find this portion of the organ after sexual excitement more swollen and tender than the rest of the epididymis, in conse- quence of a partial retention of the seminal secretion. Epidid3-mitis, however, does not often cause permanent injury to the function of the testis, al- though the reverse maj' be the case. In soniij instances neuralgia and that condition of the gland known as " irritable testis " have been traced to this affection, but these painful maladies have usually occurred in weakly persons who have largely indulged their sexual instincts. In the treatment of epididymitis, as in all inflammatory affections, rest is of the first impor- tance, and, if possible, in the recumbent posture, with a pillow between the thighs to support the scrotum; if this cannot be obtained, the testicles must be supported by handkerchiefs carefully adjusted, or by a large suspensory bandage. Six or a dozen leeches, repeated if necessar}', will generally give much relief, and evaporating lo- tions or a cool poultice should be applied to the part. As the pain and swelling subside, a weak lotion of tincture of iodine, or blue ointment with extract of belladonna, may be advantngeously used, but they should be discontinued during several hours in the day lest they irritate the scrotum. Internally, tartarised antimony with opium and mildly purgative doses of sulphate of magnesia, or some other laxative saline are useful. Wiien tlie affection has become chronic, and tliere is much thickening, iodide of potassium or small doses of mercury will aid in promoting the absorption of the inflammatory exudation. Strapping the scrotum with adhesive plaister as practised by Fricke, of Hamburg {Gaz. mcd. de Paris, 18;i.9), has been much praised by some sur- geons, but few patients can bear the pressure upon the inflamed part, even when the strips liave been skilfully applied, and if tiiis be not the case, the pain caused tiy the uneven compression is intolerable. Puncturing the tunica vaginalis with a fine lancet, as recommended hy Velpeau (^Dict. dc