WHITLOW. 1017 we give at first spectacles witli lenses which neu- tralise about one-half or one-third of the m3'opia. K.g., in myopia of we order at first spectacles with lenses of — instead of— ^jj. These may be used for going about and at short intervals frequently during the day for near work. No spectacles must be used, and all near-work discontinued for a time, if the habit of stooping or of bringing objects too near the eyes increases or continues, or if the myopia makes rapid pro- gress, or if signs of irritation appear. Myopic persons advanced in life (above forty- five or fifty) become presbyobic, and for near-work require spectacles with weaker concave lenses; il the myopia is slight, with slightly convex lenses; others can lay aside the spectacles altogether, and perform all near work without them. We must re- member that in myopics also the power of accom- modation and the acuteness of vision become dimin- ished as age advances. We should therefore be particularly careful in selecting the lenses, to give those which bring thefurthest pointof distinct vision exactly to the point at which the patient wishes to see. The acuteness of vision in older myopics often decreases rapidly within a few months. If in these cases we find no anomaly beyond the usual changes of the power of accommodation and those of atrophy and distension in the tunics, we need not be alarmed. We prohibit near-work for a time, and order leeches to be applied to the temple once a week several weeks in succession. C. Bader. VOLVULUS. (From volvo, to roll up.) See Intussusception. WART. A wart appears to be an excrescence from the cutis, or a tumor formed upon it, by which means it becomes covered with a cuticle, which is either strong and hard, or thin and soft, just as the cuticle is that covers the parts from which the excrescence arises. Warts are radiated from their basis to their circumference. The sur- face of the radii appears to be pointed or granulated, like the surface of healthy granulations, with the exception of being harder and rising higher. The surface on which a wart is formed seems only to be capable of producing one; for the surrounding and connecting surface does not throw out a simi- lar substance. Thus when a wart has once begun to grow, it rises higher and higher, without be- coming larger at its basis. Such excrescences seem to have within themselves the power of grow- ing; for, as Hunter remarks, after they have risen above the surface of the skin, on which their basio cannot grow larger, they swell out into a round thick substance, which becomes rougher and rougher. In consequence of this striictnre, warts are liable to be hurt by bodies rubbing against them; and, from such a cause, they often bleed very profusely, and are rendered sore and painful. (0/J Venereal Bis. p. 250, ed. 2.) [According to Rokitansky, there are sundry va- rieties of warts. "The most ordinary consist of cornified epidermis forming a slieath-like receptacle of considerable thickness for the hypertropliied cutaneous papilla; others are marked by the elon- gated fibrous arrangement of very luxuriating cells, as polyedrical, edged cylinders in parallel army, some of which show imperfect cornification. They have a fibro-villous appearance, are humid, and readily broken up by pressure into fibres and their elements. Their cells are devoid of nuclei, and, in only a few instances, cornified."—Rokitanski/, vol. i. p. 202, Syd. Socictys Translation.] As warts are adventitious substances, and not any part of the original structure of the body, their powers of life are weak. Hence, when sti- mulated, they generally become smaller, and at length disappear or drop off. On this principle, warts may frequently be cured by the application of the tinctura ferri muriatis, sulphate of copper, tinctura cantharidum, or a powder composed of the powder of savine leaves and the subacetate of copper in equal proportions. However, the em- ployment of stronger escharotics, like the nitrate of silver, or the concentrated acetic acid ; the re- moval of such excrescences with a knife or pair of scissors; or tying their necks with a ligature ; are plans frequently preferred. The last two methods are eligible when the wart has a narrow neck; but, after the removal of the excrescence, it is still proper to touch the root with the caustic, or the acetic acid; for, unless the whole be completely destroyed, the wart will grow again. Mr. A. G. Welsh, of Annapolis, informs us, that he once had several warts upon his hands, and having repeatedly tried nitrate of silver and other caustics in vain, he determined to try electricity. " I therefore com- menced (says he) by sending sparks through them, which was repeated for five minutes daily, when, to my great satisfaction, I found that they had entirely disappeared, since which time they have not reappeared, as they did after having been removed with the knife or caustic." (See Baliimore Med. and Surgical Jour7t. Oct. 1833.) Warts on the pudenda, and about the anus, scarcely ever withstand the effect of the powder of savine and subacetate of copper, though they will sometimes resist a course of mercury, adequate to cure lues venerea; a consideration which led Mr. Hunter to believe them not to be syphilitic. In this opinion, I believe, all the best surgeons of the present day concur. [The most speedy and effectual cure for warts, and condylomatous excrescences about the genitals, is their removal with the knife or scissors.] WHITLOW. (Panaris, Ouychia, Panaritium, Paront/chia.) A whitlow' is an inflammation at the end of one of the fingers, or thumb, exceed- ingly painful, and strongly disposed to suppurate. The toes are also sometimes the seat of similar in- flammation and abscess. Whitlows commonly begin on the palmar side of the fingers; but they do occasionally commence on the back of them, and even on that of the hand. Writers usually divide whitlows into four kinds. In the first, or mildest, a vesicle, filled with mat- ter, commonly arises near the root or side of the nail, after superficial inflammation of trivial extent. Sometimes the abscess takes place under the nail, in which case the pain is severe, and not unfre- quontly shoots upward to the elbow. The second kind of whitlow is chiefly situated in the cellular tissue, under the cutis, and for the most part occurs at the end of the finger.' In this case, the inflammatory symptoms, especially t'le pain, are far more violent than in other conunon inflammations of the same extent. Writers usually impute the violence of the pain, and the consi- derable degree of inflaniraaliun attending the com-