4t INFLAMMATION. tic. This is a kind of syllogism of which, when red\iced to plain terms, every reasonable being cim see the fallacy. " A is B, and C is B, there- fore C is A." Nevertheless this Byllogism is a very favourite one with medical and surgical theo- rizers. It is but justice to state that, although Bichat declares that iuflnmination derives somepeculiarilies from the tissue in which it is seated, he does not, as is sometimes alleged, assert that it owes every peculiarity to that source. It is a matter of reason that the redness, the pain, and the heat and swell- ing, must be modified by the structure and sensi- bility of the part inflamed. {Anatomie Patholo- gique. Paris, 1825, p. 28.) The varieties of inflammation, or, in other words, the various local effects produced by the great variety of causes enumerated in the foregoing sec- tion, on the great variety of constitutions are indicated by differences in the effects produced, in the time required to produce those effects, and in the place, form, colour, a.nA size of the morbid changes wrought. The constancy of the form, size, and duration of these specific deviations from ordinary nutrition is astonishing. For example, the vesicle of small-pox with its central depression, followed by pustulation, the vesicles of herpes, the livid nodules of erythema nodosum on the skin, thr symmetry of the patches of lepra and psoriasis the ulcers formed in typhoid fever at one certain and usual part of the small intestine, and the rose spots found in the same malady on the trunk, all these are instances sbowing the rule of law even amidst disorder, and how precise are the operations, other conditions being equal, of each set of causes. It is the peculiarity of the specific inflam- mations to be the most precise, each in its peculiar manner of form, time, and efl^'ect. The effects of remedies in some specific inflammations may also be taken as means of diagnosis, The influence of diversity of cause in producing great diversity of the phenomena classed under the common term inflammation, is well illustrated by Dr. Budd {On iJte Liver, Snd ed. 1852, p. 65). Inflammation of the knee-joint, for instance, seems a simple expression, but see the diversity of inflam- mations produced by difi'erent causes ! If caused by a penetrating wound with admission of air, rapid suppuration, the acutest fcvcrishness, and destruction of the joint, usually follow. If caused by pymmia, i.e. the presence of decaying animal matter in the blood, there may be little pam or swelling, but suppuration so rapid as to encourage the belief that the pus instead of being formed in the joint had been brought there. From which belief arose the term purulent depot. If caused by rheu matism there is severe pain and much effusion; but the effused fluid is never purulent and is almost always absorbed as the patient recovers If of gouty origin, there are great pain and great effusion, which is apt to leave particles of lithate of soda in the synovial membrane and sur- rounding tissues. If in consequence of gonorrhoea tliere will be obstinate tenderness, often great effusion, extremely rebellious to remedies, but getting well at last. ,, It is most essential that the practitioner should know the natural history of each kind of miiam- mation, in order that he may have grounds both for prognosis and treatment. For instance, know- ing that certain natural limits belong to each of the specific inflammations, e.g. that of the skin in small-pox, he will not set to work to extinguish it by too .active measures, but will rather nurse the patient through the malady till the time comes when the inflammation may be expected to subside of itself. On this point hear the immortal Sydenham, The greatest part of diseases, he says, are redu- cible to some given form or type, in the production and maturation whereof Nature binds herself to a certain method as stringently as she does with plants and animals. Tlie reasons for believing a disease to be a species are equally cogent with those we have for believing a plant to be a species. The rise, increase, progress, and termination of diseases are as regular as those of a plant. If a plant be substantial, and not a mere combination of " principles " or " qualities " so must disease be. The difference is that whereas plants exist by themselves, diseases depend on the humours that engender them. {Sydenham, preface to third edition, Syd. Soc. ed. 1848, vol. i. p. 19.) We will now briefly sketch the leading varieties of inflammation, or endeavour at all events to show the meaning of the terras commonly used in treat- ing of them. Common acute inflammation of traumatic origin has been already taken as the type and model and requires no further description. The best descrip- tion (for definition there is none) of acute inflam- mation is that it is often sudden in origin, and marches rapidly to some termination or effect dangerous to life or to the integrity of the part affected ; it is also attended with fever from ab- sorption of spoiled elements into the blood. Subacute inflammation is said to exist when some but not all the properties of acute inflamma- tion are found ; and this whether as regards vio- lence, or danger to life or to structure. Thus, mumps may be defined to be a subacute inflamma- tion of the parotid gland ; for although sudden in origin, and severe as to pain and swelling, it rapidly subsides by resolution, rarely leaving mis- chief behind it. Chronic is the name given to inflammatory phenomena when they tend to last long or even indefinitely. It produces changes of surface and of structure. On mucous and cutaneous surfaces it produces an unnaturally copious immature secretion, mixed more or less with serum, the epithelial cells presenting every form of degradation between their natural shape and pus corpuscles ; sometinjes a shedding of flakes of consistent epithelium, thickening of the membrane, dilatation of the blood-vessels, weight, pain, and undue irritability to the action of ordinary stimulants. In the substance of organs it produces interstitial exudation ; solidification, hardness, weight and swelling from infiltration with fibro-plastic matter in various grades of development; with the presence of exudation, there may be a starving, softening, fatty degeneration, and atrophy of the proper structure ; because when the chronic inflammatory exudation shrinks or is atrophied, the whole organ is apt to be found wasted and shrunken, or at least its working elements are so. Chronic inflammation may produce serous exudation, often adhesion be- tween opposite surfaces of serous membrane ; fibrinous exudation may decay and undergo fatty degeneration into one of the varieties of " tubercle, or may soften down and constitute the starting-