(338 and the blood again admitted and retained in the vessel by means of two ligatures, suppuration en- sues; the blood, at first coagulated, afterwards becomes discolored, and is progressively converted into pus.'' In the experiments and observations here re- ferred to. Dr. Carswell notices three striking cir- cumstances, which, from their constancy, and the uniformity of their results, must be regarded as having a common origin, and as consequences the one of the other. " These are the cessation of the circulation, the coagulation of the blood, and the conversion of the fibrine or globular structure of tills fluid into pus." But these changes were always preceded by inflammation of the tissue in which the blood was contained, and the pus that was immediately derived from this fluid. " That inflammation was the common origin of these changes cannot, therefore, admit of a doubt; and as it has been proved that they constitute the pro- cess of suppuration, the legitimate conclusion at which we arrive is, that this morbid process is es- sentially dependent upon inflammation as its effi- cient cause." Dr. Carswell makes a distinction between the process of suppuration, considered as a vital act, and the mere presence of pus as a product of that process. " If," says he, " pus is found in an organ, in which neither the physical nor physio- logical characters of inflammation are to be de- tected, either during life, or after death, the necessity of establishing a distinction between the mere presence of pus, and suppuration, must be obvious." That pus is fornied under such circum- stances, he endeavours to prove; first, from this fluid being found in the blood, where inflammation could have exercised no direct influence in its production; and secondly, from its being found in organs where no traces of inflammation are per- ceptible during life, or after death. He adverts to examples, in which pus was found in coagula, contained in the cavities of the heart, and, as tiie particulars demonstrate, without any inflammation of that organ. After alluding to facts of this kind, recorded by Andral, Reynaud, and others, he observes : " But, there is another most im- portant fact, which requires to be established, be- fore we can understand how pus can be formed in coagula in the cavities of the heart, and that is the coexistence of suppuration in some other organ. I have never met with a case of anomalous formation of pus, either in the cavities of the heart, in the cellular or parenchymatous structure of organs, or in the cavities of serous membranes, without find- ing, at the same time, inflammation and suppura- tion to a greater or less extent in some remote organ. It may indeed be asserted that this is also the al- most uniform result of the researches of other patho- logists; although Andral, Marechal, and some others have rather vaguely stated, that they have met with puriform matter in fibrinous concretions of the heart, without the presence of pus being de- tected in any other organ of the body." But, so far as Dr. Carswell's observations extend, the fluid matter of these concretions never resembles pure pus, but is a thin grumous grey, or reddish co- loured fluid; and probably puriform in its nature, as it resembles the contents of those concretions wliich are formed during life in the cavities of the be;u t in some cases of inflammation of the internal membrane of this organ, succeeding to rheumatism SUPPURATION. of the joints. " If such be the origin of puriform collections of this kind, they of course come under the head of suppuration, and do not form an ex- ception to the law, that the formation of pus in the blood, and in other parts of the body, under circumstances which disprove its connection with inflammation, as cause and efi^ect, has never been shown to take place, tvithout heiny preceded hy sup- puration in a remote organ.'''' This important fact being admitted. Dr. Carswell considers the prin- cipal circumstances under which suppuration has been observed to precede these .anomalous forma- tions of pus; for instance, external suppurating sores, wounds, amputation, lithotomy, operation for fistula in ano, the excision of portions of dis- eased bone, fractures, phlebitis after external in- juries, and parturition, &c. Then the situation of the pus in these cases appears to Dr. Carswell to deserve particular notice. " In the great majority of cases, this morbid product is found in the veins nf the affected part. In idiopathic phlebitis; in phlebitis of the uterus following delivery; and even in phlebitis after blood-letting; it is some- times found only in the veins; whereas in phlebitis succeeding to external injuries or operations, it exists often extensively, at tlie same time, in the in- termuscular cellular tissue, in the canals and in the cancelli of the bones; it is fuund also in the smallest veins that can be traced by dissection, in the largest trunks of the extremities and pelvic viscera, and even in the vena cava. In some cases, the quantity of pus does not amount to a drachm; in others, it measures sevenil ounces. The number of veins in which it is found, varies from a very few, small or large, to the whole of those of the arm, or forearm, or of the uterus. The arteries, in such cases, never contain any pus; nor have I met with it to any extent in the lymphatics, except in uterine phlebitis, in some cases of wliich these vessels were distended with it, the veins being in a similar state, or containing only a very small quantity.'' With all these facts presenting themselves. Dr. Carswell joins Dance, Blandiii, and Ciuveilliier, in attributing the formation of anomalous collec- tions of matter in remote parts of the body to the transmission of the pus from the veins in which it is formed, directly into the circulation, and not through the medium of the lymphatics. He be- lieves also, with Velpeau, Mare'chal, and Rochoux, that purulent deposits may be formed as a conse- quence of the separation of pus from the blood, and its subsequent accumulation in the capillaries, or cellular texture. (.See CarsweWs Illusirations of the Elem. Forms of Disease, fasc. 8.) For other remarks connected with this subject, see Blood, Abscess, Py/emia. As every injury, or eftect of outward violence, is more or less exposed to the surrounding air, the application of air to internal surfaces has been as- signed as a cause of suppuration; but, certainly', the air has not the least effect on parts circumstanced as above, for a stimulus would arise from a wound, were it even contained in a vacuum. In circum- scribed abscesses, the air cannot possibly get to the parts, so as to have any shai-e in making them suppurate. , _ .1» In emphysema, when air is difi^used over the whole body, no suppuration is the consequence, unless an exposure, or imperfection of some mter- nal surface, should be made, for the purpose of