50-2 The sprniis covering may or may not lio impli- cntt'd. The surface over such diseased spot of king may be covered with a freslily effused, soft lymph, which may conceal the lobuhxr disease beneath. Tiie marks of pleuritis are sometimes much more extensive and general, consisting of diffluent lymph and sero-purulent effusion. This inflammation is occasionally excited by the close proximity of pulmonary abscesses, or by their rup- ture and communication with the pleural sac. The initial step in these morbid changes has to be sought for in the altered condition of the blood contained in the vessels, and not in the existence of a phlebitis. It is manifestly impossible, in every instance, to trace the presence of coagula in vessels BO minute as those of the lungs, yet it can be done with sufficient frequency to justify the conclusion that they are commonly present at the onset. It is not until the healthy nutrition of the part has been affected, and inflammatory action induced, thivt the coats of the vessels participate in the disease. A coagulation of the blood may doubtless be the eiTect of inflammation, and not its ante- cedent, since we generally find the blood coagu- lated in the vessels of a pneumonic lung. But when the lung is no more affected than in the first variety, fortunately the condition of the blood in the vessels can be more easily traced than in the subsequent stages, and coagula or emboli are generally present. Turning to the heart, which is, however, far more rarely affected, we discover that the morbid processes are essentially the same. In pyasmial carditis, small secondarj^ abscesses may sometimes be found affecting the cardiac structures imme- diately beneath its investing membrane. The sur- face of the organ also presents numerous ecchymotic or purpuric-looking spots and blotches. Although the lymph may be general over the pericardium, as in the pleura, yet the cardiac muscle will gene- rally be found diseased in isolated spots, with intervening portions of healthy structure. If the lymph be scraped off the pericardium, these will appear as small elevated opacities, which, when cut into, are found to be minute cavities with softened edges, and filled with a puriform fluid, or a pultaceous material. The liver frequently becomes the seat of secon- dary inflainmation. In the early stage, brownish- red spots may be observed scattered through its substance. These, as they extend, assume a bluish or slate-colour, and the structure of the liver thus affected is found to have lost its consistence, and to be very easily broken down by presstire. Every liart affected here, as in the lungs, proceeds ra- pidly to softening and suppuration; and the usual appearance presented after death is that of several small circumscribed abscesses, around which the structure of the liver has been condensed only to a very small extent. It sometimes happens that the larger veins in the liver become affected. These vessels being held open by the firm structure of the part, are not so readily obliterated as in other situations; and it happens that the fibrin of the blood being more or less perfectly separated from its other constituents, is found in detached masses mixed with fresh portions of blood, which have not undergone tlie same change : a verj' peculiar mottled appearance, rcsL'nibling granitic, is thus occasionally produced. Alfuctions of the spleen, produced by the intro- duction of foreign matters into the blood, are pro- PYyEMIA. bably not so readily recognised as similar affections in the lungs and liver. For although the spleen is often found to be diseased in those who die from infection of the blood, yet it is comparatively seldom that secondary abscesses have been found in it. When the general mass of the blood has under- gone a septic change, the pathological changes in- duced in the spleen are, sometimes, very marked. Not only is the organ enlarged, but it is very irregular in point of consistence. Numerous coni- cal, rounded, or oblong masses of induration are present in it ; white, yellowish white, or chocolate in colour. The masses correspond to veins ob- structed with fibrin and blood-clot, bounded by an irregular zone of vascular tissue. The remaining part of the gland tissue may be so friable and softened, that it is very easily rup- tured, and the diffluent contents exude through the rents like a thick treacle, leaving the indurated masses behind. In the person of a previously strong and healthy man, who died very rapidly after being admitted into hospital with symptoms of delirium tremens, intestinal diseases and low fever, the spleen was found of a dark slaty hue upon the exterior; the traheculaj and interior of the gland were completely disorganised, and filled with a dark brownish mud- pulp, which drained off so completely as to leave the gland a loose bag of one-third of its original size, and containing, here and there, irregular in- durations of altered fibrin and blood-clot. The heart had dark fluid blood in its left, and loose dark clots in its right cavities. The lungs were full of small abscesses and indurations (lobular pneumonia.) The intestinal mucous membrane was much congested, mottled with large ecchymotic- looking spots, and softened in places. In this case no injuries or external wounds (save a few bruises) could be discovered. Deposits of lymph are sometimes met with in the kidneys. These are of small extent and of a light colour. The patches of congestion so charac- teristic of this disease in other organs, are not here observed. This may depend upon the peculiar disposition of the capillary system of the kidney. Tiie blood has to pass through the malpighian tufts, and may be altered in character before it reaches the proper venous system of the organ. In cases where purulent infection of the blood has been purposely produced, portions of the kid- ney will not unfrequently be found inflamed and firmer than natural; but if the origin of the disease were not known, these appearances could not al- ways be distinguished from those produced by in- flammation of the kidney from other causes. In a case where a fibrinous concretion had formed in the left side of the heart, and had afterwards become disintegrated, the kidneys were found, when ex- amined by the author, to contain numerous masses of white deposit in various stages of softening. The skin is liable to be affected in throe different forms. The first of these occurs very rarelj', and consists of small deposits of matter in the structure, or upon the surface of the skin, resembling m many respects the pustules of small pox. The second form is also of rare occurrence, and consists of small couRosted spots mi the surface of the skin. I hese are goncn.lly of a dark p..r|.le hue, but sometimes they assume u bright red colour. In one case ob- served by the author a bright red eruption ex-