42 INFLAMMATION. culnrs of two cases, in both of which there were fibrinous concretions on the mitral valves, and in which there ensued also mortification of the extre- mities and death. In one of the cases there were co- agula in the brachial arterj', in the aorta, the coeliac axis, the bifurcation of the aorta, the common iliacs, the bifurcation of the iliacs, the internal iliacs, and in the origin of the profunda and femoral ; and there were also fibrinous deposits in the spleen and kid- ne3-s. " Where there was partial obstruction, as in that portion of the aorta at the commencement of the coeliac axis, as well as at its bifurcation, the inflammation was of the kind usually denominated adhesive, and the exuded matter was susceptible of some organisation. Where the plugging was more complete the inflammation was of a more intense character, and was followed by the exudation of an albumino-fibrinous material, mixed with pus, or which soon degenerated into pus." (Medico- CJiintrgt'cal Transactions, vol. xlv. p. 367.) The latest writers on the subject of embolism in its relation to the phenomena of capillary conges- tion are Drs. Lancereau and B. Ball. The former has written a work devoted particularly to the subject of cerebral softening, in its relation to vascular obstructions. He does not maintain that nil cases of softening of the brain arise from this cause, but he expresses his opinion that a large proportion of the softenings called essential origin- ate in this manner. (Dela Thrombose et de I'Em- bolie Cerebrales, cojisiderces principaleme.nt dans leiirs Rapports avec le Ramollissement du eerveau. Par E. Lancereau. Paris, 1862.) Dr. Benjamin Ball, in his treatise {Des EmhoUes Pulmonaires, Paris, 1862),shows how inflammation, gangrene, and cancer of the lungs, may be produced by the transference of contaminated clots. Conse- cutive inflammations,large and small,may,v/e hope, now, by the aid of modern observation, be trans- ferred from the list of vital, i. e. inexpHcable, to that of phenomena whose antecedents are known and understood. It may be readily understood why inflammations of the lungs are so frequent, and why certain kinds of pneumonia follow amputations in military hospitals—they being the organs first permeated by blood which has become chilled or poisoned in its transit through the body. Metastasis. — In the foregoing remarks, the word metastasis has been employed to signify the production of a secondary inflammation through the physical transference of clots or contaminated blood from a diseased part to a healthy one. But there are two other cases in which the word is used. One is, when the heart is affected in rheu matic fever. The other is when inflammation— especially the gouty—suddenly leaves one part and appears at another. In Rlicumalism, as Dr. Fuller says, " although rheumatic inflammation of the heart may possibly be connected in some rare instances with the sud- den subsidence of articular inflammation and tiie transfer of irritation from the external parts, it must be regarded in most instances as a mere co- incidence and as an extension of local mani'esta- tionsof the disease." {On Rheumatism, Lend. 1852, p. 139.) Certainly the notion that inflani mation of the heart during rheumatism arises from motnstasis is erroneous and mischievous. It may bo the lirst symptom, and one tliat might be tiver- looked by a believer in metastasis. Dr. Fuller believes that the circumstances which render the heart prone to suffer are whatever renders the or- gan irritable ; in other words, as we have said at p. 32, over-work and uuder-nutrition of any organ are surely the means of making it inflame during the existence of any great blood disturbance. In Gout the phenomena of metastasis are more common during a fit of acute gout. Sometimes spontaneously the inflammation may shift from one joint to another of the same foot, or to the other foot. It is well known that the application of cold, and sometimes of very hot water, will cause the local inflammation to vanish, and then will come on a furious headache, an attack of spasm or im- perfect action of the heart, of difficult breathing, or of violent pain in the stomach. In gout, too, the most worked, worst nourished, feeblest, and injured parts, are most liable to suffer primarily and se- condarily. Section 7.— Varieties of Inflammation ; Classifi- cation, S(o.—The phenomena of inflammation dis- play so great diversity, that they have largely taxed the ingenuity of pathologists in the attempt to classify them, and to give names to the several varieties. Some have classified them according to their violence (actite) ; to their relations to time (chronic), or to the original strength and weakness of the patient {sthenic, and asthenic, low, irritable, &c.); or to the amount of weakness induced by the disease; or to the supposed final cause of the inflam- mation {conservative, destructive, &c.) ; or to the local effect produced, as the cedematous, adhesive, suppurative, ulcerative, gangrenous, carbimcuhir, &c. ; or to the texture of the part involved; thus we used to read of serous, mucous, cutaneous, fibrous, &c.; or to the disposition to be limited or to spread {circumscribed, diffuse, &c.). These classifications require passing notice, as being parts of the literary history of our profession; but for all practical pur- poses "the only classification worth noticing is that depending on varieties of caasc, whether that cause be an agent or condition, external to the body, or internal, or both combined. The term aciUe signifies violence, and usually rapidity and short duration. It points usually to great hyperemia, heat, and throbbing ; these are usually soon succeeded by exudation. The term subacute " is a proper one, because there are cases of inflammation, sometimes occur- ring idiopathically, oftener perhaps symptomatic- ally, either in combination with febrile or exan- tliematous disease, or with chronic diseases, func- tional or organic, which present the symptoms of inflaumiation, and produce more or less of the effects of inflammation within a short time, but which never attain any great extent or intensity, nor eflect great alterations of structure, and can be controlled without any very active treatment. The mucous and serous membranes present many ex- amples of this kind." {Alison, in Tiveedie's St/st. of Prac. Med., vol. 1. p. 82.) The terms active and passive, sthenic and asthenic, point respectively to a vigorous patient, with a disease rapidly proceeding to a termination, or to a languid feeble patient with a slow .ind obstinate disease, benefited by stimulants, general and local . . ~ There is J'et another division ot a snnilar kind into distinct and latent inflammations, the latter term being npiilicd to cases, not uncon:- nion when internal inflammation takes j>lacc, and