DISEASE. SG4 VENEREAL f stablislied it will be logitimate to use it to explain otherwise unexplainahle cases, but it is not legiti- mate to use cases, otherivise easily explainable, in support of the preconceived idea of the mixed chancre. There is, in our opinion, nothing at present to elevate it above the level of pure hypo- thesis. We do not hesitate to regard it as a myth which has had its origin solely in the necessity for a plausible explanation of the various anomalies of the double virus theory, without which necessity it is our belief it would never have been hoard of. In the forego'ing remarks we have endeavoured to give expression to the opinion we have alwn3'R entertained, that recent researches into the subject of syphilis have not always been advances in the right direction; that there has been of late, in the modern French school especially, too great a dis- position to dogmatise, and to educe positive laws from a one-sided examination of facts; and that, consequently, mmy of the conclusions arrived at will not stand the test of impartial examination. Much may be learnt from what has been done, but there is a good deal also which will require to be unlearnt; and the doctrines of twenty years ago are not yet so completely revolutionised as many modern authorities vv'ould lead us to believe.] [Modern Treaiment—The modern treatment of syphilis resolves itself into the management of the priniar}', the secondary, and the tertiary manifes- tations, of each of which it is necessary to speak separately. Primary SypJiilitic Sores.—In discussing the treatment of these, according to the practice of the present day, their division into two classes, the indurated and the unindurated, is very convenient, especially with reference to the propriety of adopt- ing a mercurial treatment. The soft sores are more frequent than the hard in the proportion of five or six to one, while they are rarely (those who hold that there are two distinct poisons say never) followed by constitutional infection. If mercury, therefore, is given in all such cases, with the view of preventing this result, it will be given unnecessarily in the very great majority : and since it has not been found to exert any bene- ficial influence in promoting the healing of this kind of sore, surgeons are now pretty generally agreed that it is more prudent to withhold the remedy altogether in tiiis class of affectiims. When a sore of this character is seen in its early stage, say when of not more than four or five days' duration, destructive cauterization is without doubt the most effectual metluid. Strong ■ nitric acid, and it should be the strongest pro- curable, is one of the best agents for this purpose. It should be freely applied both to the surface and edges of the sore, so as to completely destroy them. If this is effectually done, a healthy sur- face is left when theeschar separates, which rapidly heals, and all after consequences are averted. After the period mentioned, however, cauterisa- tion is so often ineffectual, that the better plan seems to be to let the sore run its course. The treatment should then consist of, above all, scrupulous cleanliness, the application of gently stimulating and cleansing applications to the ulcer- ating surface, and the avoidance of all extraneous irritation by over-exertion, friction with the clothing, or otherwise. Jjocally, there are no better applications than weak solutions of chlo- rated soda, of carbolic acid, of sulphate of z\n<r or the old-fashioned black wash of the strength ordered in the present Pharmacopoeia, viz.—three grains of calomel to the ounce of lime water. A. fresh application of lint dipped in one of these lotions should be made every five or six hours. Generally, the treatment must be regulated by the condition of the patient and the appearance of the sores ; if these are inflamed, purgatives and salines will be useful ; if they are slow in their progress, tonic medicines will often be required. By means of this kind it is surprising v/ithin what narrow limits this form of disease may be confined, and to what extent more severe conse- quences may be averted. The good effects of perfect rest, regular diet, and scrupulous cleanli- ness, have been strikingly manifested in the London Female Lock Hospital in the women ad- mitted under the Contagious Diseases Acts. Amongst these patients soft sores are of course common enough, but from the fact of their being secluded for treatment at an early period, the sores are for the most part singularly small and superficial, and very rapidly heal. Suppurating buboes are exceedingly rare, and anything like phagedena or sloughing still more so. In considering the treatment of the indurated sore, the question of the propriety of administer- ing mercury or not at once arises, and here opinions are divided. It is held by some to be useless as a preventive, that secondary affections are certain to appear sooner or later, and that the effect of mercury is only to retard and not to pre- vent them ; that it is better therefore to wait and to treat the sore by local measures only. The majority, however, and ourselves among the num- ber, believe that mercurial treatment materially hastens the absorption of the local induration, and the healing of the sore; while it also, in a con- siderable proportion of cases, prevents altogether the occurrence of future disease. It must be per- severed with, not only until the sore has healed, but until all trace of induration has disappeared. Sores, on which phagedena or sloughing super- venes, must be treated on the same principles as pha- gedena or sloughing generall)-. These conditions have no special connection with syphilis, and are merel}'- accidents occurring in the course of that disease. Treatment of Sccondarr/ Syphilis.—For the treat- ment of secondary syphilis, especially in its earlier stages, it is undoubtedly the opinion of the_ great majority of the profession that mercury is the remedy whicli exercises the most decided thera- peutic influence over the disease. For more than two centuries, through evil report and good report, it has held and still maintains its position. Never- theless, the anti-mercurialists have done great ser- vice in exploding the old idea that mercury was a specific remedy" without which the disease must necessarily go on from bad to worse. There are few, nowadays, who maintain that mercury has any, so-called', specific influence, or that it does more than aid in the elimination of the noxious influence or poison which causes the outward manifestations. It is generally admitted that svphilis may run its course and terminate favour- ably without anv mercurial treatment, but it seems equally certain that the remedy does exer- cise a beneficial influence both in the removal ot existing symptoms, and in hastening the ultuiiate