PSOAS ABSCESS. 486 urinary product, the triple phosphiite of ammonia and magnesia. They are in consistence liard, and so close in texture as to bear some resemblance to porcelain, They are white, fawn, or pale brown in colour, the surface being usually of a darker tint tlian the interior. The operative proceeding; by which large pro- Btatic calculi have been removed is usually an incision in the perinseum carried into the urethra upon a grooved staff, in the manner and situation of lateral lithotomy. Occasionally, the opening has been made in the median line, i.e. in the raphe of the perinaeum. Undoubtedly this situa- tion is the best and safest for the incision, inas- much as the median opening gives a more com- plete command of the position occupied by the stone, and is also a nearer and less hazardous route to the neck of the bladder under these cir- cumstances. The operation is far less dangerous than that of ordinary lithotomy, as the bladder remains untouched, supposinpr tliere is no vesical calculus also, a point which must be carefully investigated beforehand. Especial care must be taken at the time of operation to remove all the fragments which are lodged in the prostate so as not to leave nuclei for fresh deposit. Sir B. Brodie relates a case in which he re moved small prostatic calculi with the long urethral forceps ; but some of these escaped also into the bladder, and had subsequently to be removed from that situation. Calculi are not infrequently found in the blad- ders of patients with hypertrophied prostate; and it is worthy of remark that the latter complaint sometinies, but by no means always, masks the existence of the calculus, which is prevented from rolling to the sensitive neck of the bladder by the tumor there. The calculus usually occupies the deep bas-fond of this organ, and is not easily dis- covered by sounding unless the pelvis of the patient is raised high above the level of his shoulders, and a sound havnig a small short curve be employed, the beak of which can be turned downwards behind the enlarged prostate, so as to search thoroughly the depression there. Indeed, such, in my opinion, is the only form of sound calculated to ensure the discovery of a stone in any bladder. The existence of enlarged prostate is not an absolute objection to lithotomy : it increases the difficulty of reaching the bladder and of seizing the stone. It is not an insuperable difficulty to lithotritj-, but it renders the introduction of instru- ments often more difficult and the removal of detritus less easy. Each case must be j'ldged on its own merits.] Nenr!/ Thompson. See .T. Hunter, on the Venereal Disease, p. 169, &c. 2d p(lit.4to. I.ond. 1788. Boillie's Morbiil Anatomy, P.J.Dcsault, CEovres, Chir. t iii. p. 220, &c. Svo. Paris, 1803. Sir Euerard Home, On iyiseasea of the Prostate GlaniJ, 2 vols-Svo. Lon(i. 18U-1818. Also on Strictures, 3 vols. Svo. :id. eil. 1805—1821. Sir C. Jiell, On ihe Muscles of the Ureters, in Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. iii. J. Shaw, On the Structure of the Proslate Gland, in C. lieU's .^ur^iciil Obs. vol.i. Svo. 1816. E. A. Lloyd, On Scrofula, p. 107, &c. Svo. Loud. 1821. ./. liowship, (Jhs. on IJIs. ot the Urinary Organs, &c. Svo. L'inil. 18)6.; also. On Complaints aftectiiif!; the Secretion and JCxcr etion of Urine, Loud. 182;t. .M> li. (J. Brodie, On the Diseases of Ihe Urinary Organs, ed. 2. Svo. Lond. 1835. Orm eilhier, Anat. Fathol, t. i. liv. vviii. fol. I'aris, 1832 — 1835, and t. ii. liv. xxvi. j. Wilson, On the Male Urinary «nd Genital Organs, Svo. Lond. 1821. Mert icr, Anjf. Kcchercbcs sur lea Maladies de la Prostate, Pans, me,; [KechcrchesAnat Si Path. Paris, 1841. Cieiale, Muiudies des Or;iahes Urinaires, lust fUiiioii, I'diis, 1858. Stafford, On the Prostate, vnded. Loiid. Ih45. ./no. Adams, Anat. and Diseases of the I'ro&lule Gland, 2d. ed. Lond. 1863. Dec. Uodynon, 'I'he I'rc- state Gland and its enlargement in old age, Lund. 1856. Henri) Thompson, Uibeascs of the Proslate (Jacl<80uian Prize), L.ond. 1861.J PSEUDO SYPHILIS (from il/euS^jr, false, and Syphilis, the venereal disease.) Disease resem- bling the venereal, but not really of this nature. (See Venereal Disease.) PSOAS ABSCESS. [This form of abscess, which is classed among those of a chronic charac- ter, is particularly distinguished by the course it follows from above downwards, originating ia moat instances from a carious condition of the two last dorsal, or the proximate vertebrae in the lumbar region. It mostly enters the sheath of the psoas muscle, and either accompanies it in its direction downwards toward the hip joint, or presents itself in the shape of a small tumor in the inguinal re- gion, a short distance above Poupart's ligament, or else by its gravitation at almost any point in the femoral region. In its early stage the symp- toms are obscure, and often pass unnoticed un- til a small tumor is observed, or a tenderness in the spine is felt in the act of walking, or on pres- sure being made. Psoas abscess, which is common at the age of childhood, becomes much rarer as we advance towards manhood, for in the latter period we often see the chronic abscess in this region in the form of pelvic abscess, originating from acute cellulitis, with or without any disease in the iliac bones, and presenting many of the characters of psoas abscess. It is often extremely difficult to form a correct diagnosis of these two forms, un- til a later stage of the psoas abscess appears to indicate its real character. This abscess is unques- tionably of a strumous nature, possessing all the characters and properties of that disease, terminat- ing either by ankylosis of the bodies of the verte- bi ae, or fatally from constitutional exhaustion. In its treatment, counter-irritation by issues is most ad- visable at an early stage; indeed, issues are prefer- able in most instances to tliecantharides biister,from liie uncertainty and irregularity of its action; per- fect quietude, and a strict attention to the secre- tions of the bowels should be enjoined; at the same lime a diet of a light and nuiriiious nature should be allowed. We must be cautious m opening a psoas abscess, unless some urgent reason points out its necessity, as, for instance, the pressure of the matter upon important organs, or a threatened ulceration of the cyst, when an outlet for the mat- ter should be made in a valvular form, in order to allow agraduid escape of its contents, without the admission of air into the cyst. Linseed meal (loultices should now be resorted to, or an india- rubber drainage tube may be used; wine should be allowed, and a liberal diet. Tonics, such as iron and quinine, are now especially indicated, and par- ticularly the Syr. Ferri lodid. or the Ferri Aiiiraon. Citras, from which frequently great benefit may be derived. Dr. Pidduck lias suggested an admirable combination of the osteo. phosphate of lime with the saccharine carbonate of iron, which, when mixed with the various ingre- dients, and converted into gingerbread nuts, are readily taken by children with much benefit to their general health, and to the osseous system.