«^48 SARSAPARILLA. it cannot be shown to possess any special thera- peutical action, beyond supplying fat, an essential article of diet to young children, in a form which is easily digested and assimilated. An attempt has been made to supply phosphate of lime to the system by giving lime water and milk at intervals, with occasional doses of phos- phoric acid and iron, triisiing to the formation of a lime salt in the stomach, which will be more readily absorbed into the blood; but, as might be expected, no better result has attended this treat- ment than when phosphate of lime was internally administered. Milk is perhaps the best food that can be given, and when the child is very young nothing equals the breast milk of the mother, if she be in a good state of health. When older, meat broths, or a little meat is desirable; but this must be finely chopped; and in feeding a rickety child its imperfect or de- ficient dentition must always be borne in mind. The complications which arise in the course of this disease, as bronchitis, hydrocephalus, &c., must be treated in accordance with the principles laid down for ordinary cases, regard being had to the debilitated condition of the patient, which will admit of a depletive treatment unless in a few ex- ceptiniial cases.] More good is generally effected by keeping children in healthy situations, and in a salubrious air, than by anj' medicines whatever. Light, wholesome, nutritious, easily digestible food; cold bathing; good nursing; regular gentle exercise; or airings in a carriage; the use of the flesh-brush, &c. are also highly serviceable. The constitutional treatment of rickets belongs more properly to the physician than the surgeon; and it is not neces- sary to introduce more of the subject into a Dic- tionary expressly allotted to surger}'. (See MoL- LiTiES OssiuM.j O. O. Gascnyen. Dav. Whistler, De .VIorbo Piierili Anglor. dicto" tbe Rickets," Luil^. Bat. 1645. Glisson, De RiichitiUe, Bive, Morbo Puerili, Ludg. Batav. ItiTl. Duventai/, Traits des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1751. Levaclier de III Ftutrie, Traits du Rachitis. Paris, 17 72. Bonhomme, M6in. ou Rachitis, in Duncan's Medi- cal Annals for 1797. Hicherand, Nosog^raphie Cbir. t. 3. p. H2, &c. cd. 4. LeveiUi, in M6m. de Pliy- kiologie et de Chirursjie, par Scarpa, &c. Boyer, Traits des Maladies Chir. t. iii. p. 607, &c. {Stanley's Obs. in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 40-t. De/pec/i, Precis El^m^ntaire des Maladies Chir. t. iii. p. 739, &c. Trnha de Krzou-itz, Historia Kachitidis, 8vo. Vindob. 1787. R. Hamilton, On Scrofulous Atlec- tions, &c. 8V0. Lonil. 1791. A. Portal, iJhi. sur la JNature et sur le Truitement du Kachitisme ou des Couibures de la Colonne Vert6brale et de celies des Extrdmites, 8vo. Paris, 1797. J. Wilson, On the Structure and Physiology of the Skeleton, Diseases of Bones, &c. p. 159, &c. hvo. Lond. 1820. ./. Shaw, On Dittortions ol the Spine and Chest, 1823. A. liliaw, in iVied. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. J. Cloqnet, I'aiho- logie Chir. p 97, 410. Paris, 1831. Tliomas hranne, in Trans, ol Provincial .Medical and aursical Asso- ciation, vol. iii. W. Cumin, in Cyclop, of Practical Medicine, art. Ricliets. llei-bert Mayo, Outlines ui Human Pathology, p. 18, 8vo. Londi 1835. Rufz, Reclicrches sur le Kuthltisme chez les eiitaiis, Paris, 1834. Boiivier, Bull, de I'Acad. de Med. Paris, 1830-37. yGuirin, M6moire sur les caraci^reb gi^u^ruux du Ruchilisme. Pans, 1839. Viigh, uint. (le M^d. et. Chir. Pratiques, ls29. Guscrent, iJict. (le Aitdecine, I8ii7. A'^laton, KlCiiiens de Path. Chir. Paris, 1847. Stanley, l realise on Disease.^ of the Bones, 1849. Bei/lard, Uu Uachiiis du In l'ruii,i6 des Os. de I'OsleO-Mal. I'nris, 1852. Brucu, Keclii-rclRS sur ((uelques points de rAriiit. Puili. (lu KuchitiBiiie, Bull, re la Si C. d'Anat. Puns, 1852. Gti'Oy, Miiladies des Orifaues du mouvemtnt. Paris, 1855. Cfl*<6'Ho, Cyclopedia of Practical Sur- gery, liokitamkii. Manual of Path. Anatomy, Syd. rioc. Simon, Animal Chemistry, Syd. Soc. Kotllker. Manual of Histology, Syd. Soc. Merei,On Disorders of Infantile Development and Rickets, 1855 Jenner, Lectures on Rickets, Med. Times and Gazette, 186(i, vol i.] RINGWORM. (See Skin, Disea.ses of.) RUPTURE. A protrusion of the abdominal viscera. (See Hernia.) RUPTURED PERINEUM. (See Vagina.) SABINA. Savine. The use of the leaves of this plant, in forming the active ingredient in the ointment, commonly preferred for keeping open blisters, has been explained in the article Blisters. The other chief surgical use of savine, is as a stimulating application for destroying warts and other excrescences. For the latter purpose, it is generally powdered, and mixed with an equal pro- portion of subacetate of copper. The same powder is also sometimes emploj-ed by surgeons for main- taining the hollows in which peas are insirted in issues. The best plan is, first to wet the peas, then roll them in the powder, and put them, in this state, on the issue. But, when the whole surface of the issue has risen high above the level of the skin, the powder must be sprinkled all over the sore, so as to produce an absorption of the high granulations. Indeed, even in this man- ner, a good cavitj' often cannot be obtained ; and it becomes necessary to destroy the surface of the issue, by rubbing it with caustic potassa, or potassa cum calce. SALIVARY FISTULiE. (See Parotid Duct.) SANIES. The thin, serous, fetid matter dis- charged from fistula;, uuiiealthy sores, &c., some- times tinged with blood. SARCOCE'LE. (from aapi, flesh ; and K'i]\-n, a tumor.) A chronic enlargement of the testicle. (See Testicle, Diseases of) SARCO'MA, or SARCO'SIS. (from (rop^, flesh.) A fleshy tumor. (See TumoRS, Sarco- matous.) SARSAPARI'LLA. The root of sarsaparilla was brought into Europe about 1530. It was at first reputed to possess singular efBcacy in venereal cases ; but afterwards lost all its fame. It was again brought into notice by Dr. W. Hunter, who advised Dr. Chapman to make tiial of it in a bad case of phagedenic bubo ; and the benefit obtained in tills instance led Dr. Hunter to extend the recommendation of the medicine. Sir W. Fordyce stated that sarsaparilla would quickh' relieve vene- real headache, and nocturnal pains, and, if per- sisted in, cure them ; that in emaciated, or con- sumptive habits, from venereal cause, it was the greatest restorer of appetite, flesh, colour, and strength, which he knew of ; that when mercurial frictions had been previously employed, it would generally complete the cure of the disease of the throat, nose, palate, or spongy bones ; and that it would promote the cure of blotches and ulcers, and soinetimes accomplish it, even without mercurt); though, in this circumstance, there was danger of a relapse. Sir W. Fordyce pronounced sarsapa- rilla to be of little use in chancres ; but, that when tlie.'e or buboes could not be healed by mercury, It would often cure, and always do good. He allows, however, that, in all venereal cases, fur$a- parilla is not to be trusted, unless preceded by, or l oinbined with, ih: use o/mercury ; and he thought