12B JOINTS, DISEASES OF —an opinion which is now the prevalent one amongst surgeons generallj'. It is this pecu- liar form of disease of the joints in which some surgeons advocate the practice of excision,—an operation that shall be noticed further on. (See Excision of Joints.) Wc may here again refer to the researches of Mr. Aston Key on the ulcera- tion of cartilage as an independent disease from osseous 01- synovial inflammation.] After briefly adverting to the removal of the cartila"e from the heads of the bones m old per- sons, and the frequent substitution of an ivory deposit for it, Mr. Key notices that form of ulce- ration of cartilage which commences on the surface of it attached to the bone. According to his re- searches, there are two varieties in which this secondary absorption of cartilage takes place,—one chronic, the other acute ; but he remarks, that in the process of ulceration the same passive condi- tion of the cartilage may be observed as in that which commences within the cavity of the joint. When the cartilage begins to give way, vessels, he says, may be seen shooting towards it, and they accumidate in sufficient number to form a vas- cular tissue, covering the attached surface of the cartilage. He has never examined a joint in which disease appeared to have begun in the cancelh, and in which ulceration commenced on the surtace ot the cartilage within the joint. The ulceration having at length opened, or nearly so, on that surface, the synovial membrane becomes luflamed, and the ulceration is then forwarded by a similar process commencing at the edge of the cartilage, by means of the synovial membrane, and a newly developed vascular structure. (See C. Aston Key in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xviii. art. 9.) In the nineteenth volume of the same work, Mr. Key endeavours to point out the difference between the foregoing process, by which the absorption of cartilage is accomplished in certain forms of disease, and ulceration of the same texture. The latter is described as commencing in the cartilage itselt, which becomes broken up and converted mto a purulent mass, that mixes with the synovia, and irritates the synovial membrane, so as to excite inflammation, and ultimately suppuration and ulce- ration. It appeared to Mr. Key that ulceration of cartilage is a much less frequent occurrence than absorption through the intervention of the mem- brane. He does not remember to have examined a joint that had been the subject of ordinary chronic inflammation, in which this membrane was not found more or less developed. Nor has he seen an instance of chronic inflamniat.on in the early stage of strumous disease, m which degene- ration or ulceration of the cartilage existed as the primary action. Nature seems to him to endeavour L lonj as she can to remove the cartilage bj absorption, in order to prevent the "ecess ty ot suppuration; for primary ulceration o c ge leads to the formation of abscess. breau^^^ up of the tissue of the cartilages is ^q" V'tkn o the suppurative process in softer ™ a product that must be got rid of. ^ ' ^ ^ ' '' membrane is irritated, and ^^f ^^J^ is the result. In absorption of the an. age through the intervention of the "'f' puration is not a necessary attendan , and we sometimes find the whole process completed w h- out abscess. But when the membrane is wanting, ujjpuration follows aooner or later. It further appeared to Mr. Key that the diseases in which the texture of cariilage primarily under- goes ulceration, are, for the most part, acute from their commencement. Thus, the inflammation that follows wounds of joints often leads to rapid ulceration of the cartilage, and burrowing abscess. The cartilage is often found to be extensively de- stroyed, and the bone laid bare, witliout any ap- pearance of a membrane for the purpose of absorp- tion. The remaining cartilage sometimes exhibits diiTerent stages of approaching disorganisation ; in some parts retaining its natural form, consistence, and appearance ; in others being soft and spongy, or even pulpy; and in those parts most advanced towards ulceration, the fibres of the cartilage can be seen to separate, and here and there flakes appear to be almost detached. Not unfrequently chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, attended with absorption of the cartilage, becomes acute, and leads to the ulceration and quick disorganisation of the joint. Here both ulceration and absorption are seen to operate. In chronic affection of the semi-lunar cartilages, the softening of the fibro-cartilaginous texture, and its gradual conversion into a puriform mass, may be observed in every stage. Another form of inflammation, attended with primary ulceration of cartilage, occurs in cachectic subjects, and assumes the character of acute rheu- matism. It often follows subacute abscesses in different parts, and attacks more than one joint. {C Aston Key, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix. p. 134, d seq.) [This form of disease is the peculiar Inflammation of Joints of Mr. Coulson, described further on, the result of pysemia. (See PyjJMiA.)] Notwithstanding the results of Mr. Key's in- vestigations, Sir Benjamin Biodie still finds abun- dant°evidence that the explanation of the former gentleman will not admit of a general application ; and " that the absorption of the cartiliige, com- mencing on the surface towards the cavity of a joint, may take place under such circumstances that it cannot be supposed to be the result of any other agency than that of the vessels of the cartilage itself" For the facts in confirmation of this state- ment I must refer to Sir Benjamin Brodie's publi- cations. (See Path, and Surg. Obs. on the Joints, ed. 3. And a paper by Mr. Mayo, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi.) , . . r .u j- [Repair of cartilage—The subject of the di- seases of articular cartilage, and their mode of repair, has received much attention at the hands of Mr. Redfern. His researches have been devoted to the consideration of the healthy and morbid nutri- tion of these structures, and to the mode of healing of wounds in articular cartilage (which we have previously adverted to), and on the analogy wnich exists between diseases of this tissue and inHara- mation and ulceration of other textures. It will be sufficient for our purpose to give Mr. Redfern's conclusions on this interesting subject. He thinks that the demonstration has been fully made, that every morbid action which takes place in the structure of cartilage is referable to an ab- normal nutrition of its texture, and in so far aU these morbid actions resemble inflammation They differ from it,-1st, in not being attended w l exudation, because the texture lu which tl'cyoc ur contains no blood-vessels; and 2nd, m not giving rise to pain on account of the absence of "" ves ^ If, therefore, inflammation be merely a process