863 VENEREAL DISEASE, locfil disease, coramunicnble to every person alike, wliether previously syphilitic or not. From what we have seen we can state that this is certainly not always the case. Wherever there is any great depression of the vital powers, there seems to be great difficulty in obtaining a positive result from inoculation with syphilitic matter, whether ob- tained from hard or soft sores. We have witnessed two cases of severe tertiary syphilis, in which for a long time no inoculations could be made to succeed. Another patient, wiiile undergoing syphilisation, suffered from an attack of jaundice, and, while she was jaundiced, no inoculations could be made to take, although they had taken freely before the jaundice commenced, and took again, with equal freedom, after the jaundice got well. Another patient in the Lock Hospital, with a severe secondary eruption, but who was in a very depressed condition, was inoculated over and over again without effect with matter from every variety of source. In this case, shortly after the treatment was commenced, an enlargement was noticed in the right hypochondriac region, which gradually increased, and in about three months caused her death. The tumor was supposed during life to be malignant, but a post-mortem examination showed an enormously enlarged liver, which was affected uniformly throughout with " waxy degeneration." This patient was inocu- lated on forty-three different occasions, and on two only was anything like a positive result obtained, and even then the pustules were small and abor- tive. We are aware that those who support the view that there are two syphilitic poisons have a mode of explaining away all the anomalies and contra- dictions to which we have alluded. They do so by the hypothesis that there is another kind of sore, called the mixed chancre, which has been much talked of within the last few years. This mixed chancre is said to result from the accidental im- plantation of both poisons on the same spot. It partakes of the qualities of both kinds of sore, having the suppurating surface and ready inocula- bility of the one, with the induration and infecting property of the other. An individual bearing both kinds of sore may communicate at the same moment a double contagion to another person ; or a hard sore may at any time during its progress be contaminated with matter from a soft sore, or vice versa, and a mixed chancre be the result. This certainly will explain away difficulties in a very convenient mannctr. Thus, if we allege that an infecting sore may have all the characttjrs of a soft sore at first, and afterwards become indu- rated, we are told that it is a mixed chancre, which has developed its soft moiety immediately after contagion, but to which the hard half has been superadded after the proper period of incubation. If we say that secondary symptoms sometimes fol- low the soft sore, this also was a mixed chancre, the induration of which was probably slight, and must have been overli)oked. If we succeed in inoculating with the matter from an indurated sore, this again must have been a miml chancre, or a positive result could never h.'ivo been obtained, and we must, therefore, have been mistaken as to its real nature. Now, we believe it has never bcpn claimed for the mixed chancre that it is anything more than an unusual or exceptional occurrence. If, however, we admit its existence, it becomes necessary to believe it to be exceedingly frequent, or it will not serve for an explanation of all the difficulties of which we have spoken. It must have been present in all those cases in which secondary disease fol- lows the soft sore ; in all those cases, by no means rare, in which the sore is soft at first, and becomes hard afterwards ; and again, in all those cases, now very numerous, in which the hard sore has been successfully inoculated on a syphilitic person. It obliges us to suppose that Drs. Sperino, Boeck, Bidenkap, Melchoir Robert, Auspitz of Vienna, and others, who have inoculated success- fully with matter from iijdurated sores, have always been mistaken as to their real nature, and that none of them know an indurated sore when they see one. But in this latter class of cases it is certain that such a mistake cannot alivays have been made ; because it has happened, not once or twice, but over and over again, that when the secretion was thin and serous, as is often the case in indurated sores, the inoculations failed, whereas afterwards, when the same sores were made to produce pus, the inoculations succeeded. These cases, therefore, could not have been examples of the mixed chancre, or according to the views of the dualists, they would have been equally inocu- lable from the first. It is easy enough to assert a proposition which, though it may have little or no foundation, may nevertheless be almost impossible to disprove ; and this appears to me to be very much the case with the mixed chancre. We contend, therefore, that those who decline to admit the reality of this double-barrelled sore are not bound to prove its fallacy. The burden of proof is on the other side, and rests with those who have en- deavoured to establish its existence. But the evidence in its favour is of the slenderest possible character. It appears that in certain cases matter from a soft sore has been placed upon a hard sore, and the hard sore has then taken on a suppurative action, and has produced readily inocu- lable pus, whereas the matter which it originally secreted had been previously proved to be non- inoculable. This we can readily believe, and should have expected a priori. But the fact is of no value in proving the existence of the mixed chancre, or the truth of the duality theory, because it admits of a much more simple and intelligible explanation. It is clear enough that in'these cases the indurated sore was irritated and made to suppurate by the more virulent quality of the new matter placed ttpon it, just as if it had been irri- tated with a blister or with savine ointment, and hence its increased inoculability. The converse experiment of inoculating a soft sore with matter from a hard sore has not, as far as we know, been attempted, though some few cases have been re- corded with a view to show that this kind of mix- ture also may take place, and that a soft sore may alter its character in consequence of being con- taminated with matter from a hard sore. Isolated examples are never worth much in the solution of a difficult question like this, but here—even if wo admit the facts to bo as stated—they are valueless as evidence in favour of the mixture; for there is another and a better explanation ready at hand, in the fact that a soft sore may, of its orim accord, become indurated at any period of its progress. When the reality of the mixed chancre is •4