298 MOLLITIES OSSIUM. and her gums began to bleed. Tonic medicines ■were exhibited without any success except that her menstruation was more regular, and her appe- tite ajid digestion were improved; but, towards the end of her life, her breathing became difficult, the spine distorted, and a pain in the loins took place upon every motion of the vertebrse; and as her limbs were now quite useless, she was obliged to sit upright in bed. At last, the ends of the bones, on which she sat, having become also very soft, spread much, and the ends of her fingers and thumbs, by frequent endeavours to raise herself, became also very broad and the phalanges crooked. Tlie flexibility of the bones gradually increased, and became more general, attended with a wasting of the flesh, and excessive difficulty of breathing. The menstrual flux totally ceased four months before her death; her legs, which were very ana- sarcous, and excoriated almost all over, became erysipelatous; but she retained her senses to the last. She expired suddenly, having talked in a composed manner, concerning her miserable situ- ation and approaching end, only a few moments before her death. On examining the bodj', she was found to have lost two feet two inches of her natural stature. The heart and lungs appeared sound, but had been much compressed, principally by the liver, which was enlarged in an extraordinary degree; it was not, however, scirrhous, nor in any other way diseased. The spleen was very small, and the mesentery had one large scirrhous gland. All the bones, except the teeth, were softened, so that scarcely any of them could resist the knife; but those of the lower extremities were the most dis- solved, being changed into a kind of parenchy- mous substance, like soft dark-coloured liver, with- out any oftensive smell. So completely, indeed, were they decomposed, that the knife met with less resistance in cutting through them than sound muscular flesh, though some bony lamelljie were here and there to be met with, but as thin as an egg-shell. The most compact bones, and those which contained the greatest quantity of marrow, were the most dissolved; and it was observable, that the dissolution began internally, for the bony laminee remained here and there on the outside, 4\nd nowhere else. The periosteum was rather thicker than ordinary, and the cartilages thmner; but not in a state of dissolution. The bones were found to contain a great quantity of oily matter and little earth. No cause could be assigned for the disease; and in the case of Madame Supiot^, the one assigned, viz., that of her eating too much salt, seems totally inadequate to explain the origin of tlie disoi'der. [MuUities ossium is a most intractable affection, and nearly always proves fatal; but a few cases are recorded wiiere tlie disease has been arrested, and recovery has taken place {Afcd. C/iir. Trans, vol. xlv.) ; in these the patients seem to liave derived benefit from full doses of cod liver oil with gene- rous diet; but no means of cure are yet known.] In the Museum of the College of Surgeons in London, there is a humerus, the cortex of whicli is as thin as a wafer, and the interior filled with a substance that looks like tallow. Towards tlie lower part, the bone is occupied by a vascular membranous sac. In tlie Museum of the London Hospital arc apecimens of bones similarly alVeoted, taken from the body of a woman, who died at the age of 72, after having been confined four years to her bed by paralysis of the lower extremities (see Maya's Human Paihology, p. 19) ; and the Museums of the several Metropolitan Hospitals contain preparations illustrative of this formidable disorder. [In that of St. Mary's Hospital is a specimen which shows beautifully the complete dissolution of the bony tissue and tlie substitution of a soft yielding material, which can be bent in any direction. The osseous structure has entirely disappeared, except where a few bony scales still adhere to the periosteum. This mem- brane is thickened and presents accurately the shape of the bone; it thus forms a tube, which contains a substance very much resembling a piece of muscle after long maceration, both in appearance and consistence; it has somewhat of a fibrillated arrangement, and from between its meshes an oily fluid exudes. The cartilages covering the condyles are unaltered.] For additional observations, connected with this subject, refer to Fragiliias Ossiuiu and Riclccts. Boyer and Richerand treat of mollities ossium, and rickets, as one and the same disease. [Gerd)' describes this affection as rickets in the adnlt {Maladies des Oir/aiies dii ATouvemeni, p. 324), and most of the modern French pathologists consider these two diseases to be identical.] But, as Mr. Wilson observes, it differs from rickets, in attack- ing people of middle age, or rather older, and not particularly- children; it diiiers also in the changes, produced in the bones themselves, for, when dried, they do not appear as if they had been long steeped in weak acid, by which the animal constituent is unaltered ; but both the phosphate of lime and the animal matter appear to have been aljsorbed, so as to leave mere shells of bone, wliich are also softer than natural bone of the same thick- ness. Large cavities are met with in the substance of the bones, and sometimes communicate with the soft parts surrounding them. In some of these cavities is contained oily matter, like boiled marrow; and in others, masses of coaguhited blood, and a soft: inorganic animal substance. {J. Wilson on ihc Bones, SjC. p. 253.) [Again, rickets is an affection of frequent occur- rence, painless, and very amenable to treatment, whilst mollities is the reverse of these; in the former the bones bend in the direction of their natural curves, and are shorter than usual from an arrest of growth; in the latter they have attained their full development, and yield in any direction from the action of the muscles or the superincum- bent weight. Rokitansky states that bone in this disease " undergoes a striking cliange in its cheini- cal composition, the extract produced by boiling bein"- not only different from choiidrin, but also from°the imimal matter of bone:" and he considers that this constitutes an essential dill'erence between mollities and rickets {i>!/d. Svc. Path. Anat. vol. iii. p. 178).] (■'ascoycii. Acrel, Diss. Descriptioucm et Casus ii1i(iuot Osteom- alacia! sistcns; Upsnl. 1788. Moraml, in Journ. dos Suvans, 1792, et Mt'in. de TAciid. (I<b Sciences, 1752. iUur«Hrf,jnnr.,in Mem. (iel'Acad. des bcii nces, 17(U, p. 20(>. See aUo T- Lambert, KelHtion ile la Miiladie dc Uernard d'Armasiiiic, sur un Kamollisse- ment .U s Os; Toulouse, 1700. /'V':«<-/»/.v, in Mb. (le dnl-itis reruin ciusis. T/>. ^^"'•//'[''""^■^■•. '^^l" '^I'.f^ cent. 4. i't,7i7. Hist, de rAc.Kl. d.s sciences l /.>2. J/oin, ilM.l. 17C». Gofllinnli. Annioin.s Ossu.m, lloimc, 1789. C. G. Liidu iff, ProKraiiima, quo obsei- vnta in sectione Cndaveris I'leinimu cujus Ossa