916 VENEREAL DISEASE, cum fcetidn, vel immuiid^, vel cancroba inuliero." John of Gaddesden, an Englishman, who wrote his Rusa Anglica between the years lijOS ami 1320, mentions ulcers on the penis arising from intercourse with an unclean woman, and gives the following caution in order to escape the disease :— " Si quis vult membrum ab omni corruptione servare cum recedit a muliere quam suspectiira de imrami- ditia, lavat illud cum aqua frigida cum aceto mixta, vel de urina propria interius vel exterius intra preputium." {Rosa Anglica, io\. \QT.) It will be observed that the evidence here brought forward on medical authority refers solely to the primary symptoms, and that the ulcers were all cured without mercury. With those who have formed for themselves a test for the venereal poison, viz. its curability by mercury, and by mercury only— amongst whom may be mentioned the high authorities of Astruc, Hunter, and Pearson—these quotations would appear beside the question, and could have no avail. Whilst with others, as Mr. Bacot has judiciously observed, the silence of tiie authors before quoted with respect to the secondary affections so characteristic of this disease, must greatly invalidate their weight, as tending to prove the existence of the venereal disease from the re- motest times. But it should be borne in mind that the primary and secondary affections would have appeared at different periods, and might have been observed, although not considered as related to each other; nor should it be forgotten that the secondary affections, even when the primary ulcer -was not treated, would supervene in one case out often only in the skin or throat, and but in one case perhaps out of a hundred in the bones or fibrous tissues. With respect to the secondary affections, it should be noticed that, previous to the date of the supposed first appearance of the venereal disease, many dissimilar cutaneous affections were classed under the general term of leprosy, which seems to have had a signification as extensive as the French word " dartre." Some of these leprosies are de- scribed as contagious; and Avicenna especially states that ulcers on the penis and heat of unne were symptoms by no means uncommon in the leprosy, and that this disease might be communi- cated by connection between the sexes. Aetius also, in speaking of the contagious nature of lepros.y, wains his patient to avoid coition. Gilbertus Anglicus, about the year 1360, mentions a con- taaious leprosy contracted by intercourse with a diseased woman, through the malignant matter which is lodged in the vulva; and, at a still earlier date John of Gaddesden alludes to the same cir- cumstance. So common was the leprosy even as late as the reign of Henry VIII., that there were then, according to Matthew Paris, as many as six lazar-houses in the immediate vicinity of London, viz. at Knightsbridge, Hammersmith, liighgate, Kingsland, Mile-end, and the Lock outside St. George's Gate. It is also most remarkable, that as the venereal disease became known, the contagious leprosies disappeared. Joannes Widman, in 1497, and Joannes Nauclerus, in 1501, observing this cir- cumstance, supposed that the supervention of the one disease had caused the disappearance of the other; and Joseph Grunbeck, who wrote on the venereal disease in 1496, informs ua that some ponsidered it a kind of leprosy. Nor should we omit to observe the extraordinary coincidence that the contagious leprosy was curable by mercury, while the lepra of the present day is occasionally hereditary, but never contagious, and that mercury fails to effect its cure. The first observers of the venereal disease had their attention more particu- larly drawn to the cutaneous affections, which they considered to be contagious, and many of them overlooked altogether the primary sore. Such are the principal arguments which have induced the present editor to dilTer from Mr. Cooper and from most writers on Sypliilis as regards the period ol the first discovery, and the mode of introduction into Europe of the venereal disease. Having finished with the historical part of our subject, we now tnrn to the consideration proper of the article before us. With regard to the opinions entertained by the best authorities of the nature, habits, pathology, and treatment of the venereal disease, from tlie time of John Hunter up to the date of the last edition of this work, Mr. Cooper's own narrative is so full and replete with instruction, that the present editor has thought it better to retain,\vith some slight omissions and alterations, the original text. But the more modern views on this impor- tant and much disputed subject, as influenced principally by the great discovery of M. Auzeas Turenne, will necessitate an additional and separ- ate description, in order to complete the history up to the present day of our knowledge with respect to the venereal disease in all its bearings. After these more general considerations, the in- dividual features of this disease in its primary, secondary and tertiary phases, and as affecting the several tissues and organs of the body, will be successively treated of in detail.] With some dissentients (see Bru, Melhotle nouv. de iraiter les Mai. ven. t. i. chap. 3, p. 45, Paris, 1789; J. B. F. Caron, Nouv. Docir. des Afal. vcn. Paris, 1811 ; Jourdan, Traite des Mai. tii!. ■2 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1826) the venereal disease is believed to arise from a specific morbid poison, which when applied to the human body, has the power of propagating or multiplying itself, and is capable of acting both locally and constitutionally. Whoever wishes to be fully acquainted with the arguments for and against the existence of a venereal poison, will find them considered by the late Mr. Wallace {0/iihe Venereal Disease, cb&V- 1, 8vo. Lond. 1833); and still more fully by M. Kicord (Mai. ven. 8vo. Paris, 1838). Mr. Hunter was of opinion, that the effects pro- duced by the poison arise from its peculiar or specific irritation, joined with the aptness ot tne living principle to be irritated by such a cause, and the parts so irritated, acting accordingix. Hence, he considered, that the venereal virus irritated the living parts in a manner peculiar w itself, and produced an inflammation Peculiar w that irritation, from which a matter is produced, peculiar to the inflammation. the The venereal poison is capable of human body in two different ways : 1°':'*'^% ^''f'''"i those parts only to which it is first applied; ana constitutionally, that is, in consequence ot ''''in whatever manner the venereal disease was first produced, it began, says Mr. . jg liuman race, as no other animal soems c.ip. being affect;d by it. In the Venereal Hospital ot