RECTUM, DISEASES OF. 530 the rectum begins to make flexures, which in- crease as you trace it upwards, until they termi- nate in the sigmoid llexure of the colon. These flexures of the rectum differ in different indi- viduals, and even in the same individual at different periods. When a bougie is introduced, be' it small or large, it is certain that it will be stopped somewhere or another by one of these flexures; and nothing can be more unphilosophical than to conclude, because a bougie meets with an impediment at the distance of five, or six, or eight, or nine inches, that this is the result of an organic disease of the rectum, when the_ natural formation of the parts will account for it. But let us suppose that you actually meet with one of those rare cases in which there is a stricture in the upper part of the rectum, by what means are you to recognise the disease in the living per- son ? Or, if you can recognise it, how can you know its exact situation ? If the bougie can only be introduced to a certain distance, how are you to be sure that it is stopped by a stricture and not by a fold of the bowel, or even by coming in contact with the sacrum? Tf you employ the force which you would suppose to be necessary to make the bougie penetrate through the stricture, is there no danger of its penetrating the tunics of the intestine instead ? I have been informed, on good authority, of seven or eight cases in which this frightful accident occurred, and the patients died in consequence." Taking all these things into consideration. Sir Benjamin Brodie lays it down as a rule, that bougies should not be em- ployed, except when the stricture is within reach of the finger. (See Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xvi. p. 30.) The distinguishing characters between stricture of the rectum and other affections are ably ex- plained by Dr. Colles. 1. In cancer of the rectum there is the same narrowing of the canal and hardness of its walls, the frequent straining stools and discharge of bloody purulent mucus; but the countenance presents a leaden sallow cast, and lancinating pains dart through the hips and pelvis into the groin and down the thighs and legs. Although cancer of the rectum, in its early stage, presents to the finger a feel very similar to that of stricture, yet by repeating the examination in a few weeks we discover that the cancerous ulcera- tion has in the interval destroyed some portion of the hardened wall of the intestine. 2. Dr. Colles notices a rare form of scirrhus of the uterus and vagina, in which the latter passage is almost obli- terated by a cancerous thickening of its walls. Tills gives rise to symptoms not unlike those of stricture of the rectum. Here manual examina- tion will remove all doubt. 3. The same test will apply to enlarged prostate gland, if the symptonis should simulate those of stricture of the rectum. 4. An ulcer of the rectum, if low down, will become visible by expanding the anus, or by introducing a blunt polished gorget into the bowel ■with its concavity towards the disease. The cavity of the ulcer may be felt with the finger, and more pain attends the evacuation of the bowels than in cases of stricture. 5. A tumor in the pelvis may compress the rectum : here the projection comes from one side only, and the coats of the intestine retain their healthy structure. (See Colles, in DuO- Hospital Reports, vol. v. p. HO.) C'l'he important point of distinction between stricture and malignant disease is, that in the fiir- mer the contraction is circular and uniform, but in the latter it is produced by irregular and indur.ated growths varying in size and shape, which project into the cavity of the bowel, and in that way diminish its calibre.] Sir Benjamin Brodie has given the de- scription of a disease of the rectum, in which there is generally, but not always, a contrac- tion of the gut, which is not a malignant af- fection, and yet ought not to be confounded with ordinary stricture. He has observed it chiefly in women,^and especially in those who have borne children. In the great majority of cases, it has begun some time after a difficult labour. The patient complains of pain referred to the rectum, pain in the lower part of the back, a discharge of mucus from the anus, and some difficulty in passing the evacuations. These symptoms gradually in- crease in severity ; and the patient then complains of exceeding difficulty in passing the evacuations, and of constant pain, which, however, is greatly aggravated after the fasces have been voided. There is a discharge of mucus ; and sometimes of blood, or of mucus tinged with blood. If the bowel at this period be examined with the finger, the inner surface of the mucous membrane is felt to be irregular, as if it were lined with a multitude of small flat excrescences, some of which may ge- nerally be observed, at the same time, on the mar- gin of tlie anus, somewhat like shrunk or collapsed external piles, but smaller. In some instances, the mucous membrane appears to be here and there in the intervals ulcerated. The examin- ation gives extreme pain. Generally, about an inch and a half, or two inches above the anus, a circular contraction, or stricture is perceived ; but, in other instances, there is no contraction whatever in this situation, but a very contracted state of the anus itself. A contraction, however, is not an es- sential accompaniment. When the disease has advanced further, an abscess forms in the cellular tissue near the gut, and bursts near the anus, or on the nates, or in the perina3um. These abscesses burst in other situations one after another, in the same manner as after common stricture of the rectum. Sometimes an abscess forms in front of the rectum, and bursts into the vagina, making a communication between them. Ultimately the fistulous openings are numerous, the abscesses having no disposition to heal, though they some- times get into a quiet state, and discharge but little matter ; and then all at once inflammation takes place again ; and a fresh collection of pus is produced, followed by copious discharge. The disease, if left to itself, always proves fatal in the end. Many years, however, may elapse before it has run its course, the patient all the time suf- fering miserablj'. At last she has shiverings, nocturnal perspirations, a rapid pulse, and becomes hectic and dies. {Sir B. Brodie, Vol. cit. p. 23().) Treatment.—When the disease is not attended with ulceration, the contraction and thickening of the gut may be diminished by introducing bougies, keeping them for a certain time every day so in- troduced, and increasing their size gradually. The pressure of these instruments seems to lessen the disease and stop its progress; a proof, at all events, that the nature of one form of indurated and con- tracted rectum differs from that of malignant scirrhus. Desault used long tents, made ol linen,