684 TALIPES. teristio of tlie congenital form in the adult; and, Avith this absence of the external markings, tliere is also an absence of the rigidity of the foot con- stantly present in the adult congenital cases. These peculiarities, together with the paralytic and extremely wasted condition of the limb usually coexisting with this deformity, are sufficient to enable the surgeon to diagnose the non-congenital from the congenital cases of varus. MORBID ANATOMY. In non-congenital varus of paralytic origin—its ordinary cause—the bones, ligaments, muscles, tendons, nerves, vessels, and skin undergo all the changes of defective growth, atropiij', and degenera- tion known to occur in paralytic limbs, and gra- dually become adapted to the deformed foot. Bones and Ligabients.—The deviations in the form and direction of the bones, articular sur- faces, and ligaments, in non congenital varus, par- take of the same general characters already desciibed as existing in the congenital form; but are all much less in degree, obviously for the reason that the development of these structures has pro- ceeded without interruption up to the peiiod of the commencement of the deformity, i. e. early child- hood. Hence we find that, in the non-congenital form, the astragalus never presents the peculiar malformation which it certainly exhibits in cim- genital varus, and the adapted shortening of the ligaments is always materially less. This at once explains why the deformity in adult cases of non- congenital varus can be removed in two or three months, wliile in congenital cases more than a year is frequently required to produce the same result. Muscles.—When the deformity of the foot is associated with paralysis of the limb, fatty de- generation of the muscular structure commences as an early change, and rapidly advances to an extreme degree ; but as all the muscles of ttie leg are not equally paralysed, so the degeneration proceeds unequally. Generally, the tibialis anticus, "and sometimes the tibialis posticus, will be found to be in a comparatively healthy condition. When the deformity is not associated with paralysis the muscles are generally healthy in structure. PATHOLOGY. a. Etiology and mode of production.—Non- congenital varus is generally the result of infimtile paralysis, occurring during dentition or some of the febrile disorders of childhood. In some cases, only some of the muscles of the leg are paralysed, generally the peronei, extensor longus, and some- times the extensor pollicis; the deformity then takes place more rapidly, in consequence of the unbalanced action of the tibialis anticus and posti- cus muscles assisting in the inversion of the foot during progression. Non-congenital varus is also said to arise from spasmodic affections, but, as a permanent condition, this has not fallen under my observation, though, as a temporary condition, the foot is sometimes drawn into the position of this deformity in cases of hysteria, strychnine-poisoning, &c. b. NumcricuL inipm-tance.—Amongst the non- congenital deformities, complete inversion of the foot is the least Irequent, occurring only in the pni[)nrtion of sixty in a thousand cases, and in nearly half the cases only one loot is affected. PROGNOSIS. From the pathological history of this deformity, and especially from the fact that it is generally the result of a paralytic affection, and seldom comes under the notice of the surgeon till the adult period of life, the prognotij, with respect to the power and general usefulness of the foot after the removal of the deformity, must be as unfavourable in this non-congenital form of varus, as it is favourable in the congenital form. The deformity itself can be verj' easily cured, and doubtless this is, in most cases, worth doing; but sometimes the ultimate advantages of curing the deformity by orthopcedic treatment will have to be balanced against those of amputation and the substitution of an artificial leg. TREATMENT. If, after considering all the circumstances of the case, it be determined to cure the deformity, as a means of improving the condition of the patient, the case must be treated npon the same general prin- ciples as the congenital form, but in many cases it is unnecessary to divide the posterior tibial tendon. It is always advisable to divide the treatment into two stages: the object of the first stage being to reduce the deformity to simple equinus, and of the second to flex the foot and bring it into the position of a right-angle with the leg. During the first stage of treatment, the straijjht splint applied along the outer side of the leg is the best form of apparatus, and, in the second stage, after division of the tendo-Achillis, the Scarpa's shoe will be found the most useful. The mecha- nical treatment throughout must be conducted with extreme caution, in order to avoid sloughs from pressure, which readily take place in these cases in consequence of the paralytic condition of the limb, and when they occur are extremely difficult to heal. After-treatment.—In consequence of the paralytic condition of the limb, it will be necessary for the patient to wear some form of retentive apparatus, probably for the rest of life. The pre- cise form of mechanical support must depend very much upon the extent of the paralysis, and espe- cially whether extension of the leg from the knee- joint has been lost by paralysis of the rectus muscle; if so, then a steel support must be carried from the foot up to the hip-joint, and connected with a steel belt round the pelvis, motion being allowed only at the hip-joint during walking; but the patient may have the power of bending the knee whilst sitting by means of a spring-joint at the knee. If the rectus muscle is not paralysed, the steel support need not extend beyond the calf of the leg. CONGENITAL TALIPES VALGUS. Talipes valgus, or (as it is generally termed) flatfoot, occurs rarely as a congenital, but very frequently as a non-congenital affection; and, as there are some important differences both in patho- logy and treatment in these two forms, it wiU be des'irable to consider them separately. First, then, with regard to the congeniUil form of valgus. EXTERNAL CHARACTERS. In a case of congenital talipes valgus in an infant, the foot is always more or less everted, and the longitudinal and transverse arches flaltenedi