^69 TRANSFUSIOK. venous injection or infusion simply. A detailed liistory rf the subject would here be out of place. I refer for tlie best account to Dr. Little's Oration before the Hunterian Society, 1852, and to the monographs indicated in the bibliography at the end of this article. Infusion of wine imd opium ■was first practised on dogs by the great architect, "Wren, in l(j56. Lower amongst others followed, and was the first who successfully practised transfusion in an animal. He connected the cer- vical artery of one dog with the jugular vein of another. It was next taken up in France by Denis, who first effected transfusion in the human subject in 1667. He successfully introduced small quanti- ties of the blood of calves and lambs into the veins of five persons, who experienced no injurious consequences. Experiments by other observers \ proved that the blood of the lower animals might be injected into the human circulation without bad result. Garnian suggested that asphyxiated new- born infants might be restored by tlie injection of a few drops of wine by the umbilical vein. In 1776, Kohler illustrated, in a remarkable manner, the value of venous injections of emetic sub- staness. He was called to a man in whose oeso- phagus a large piece of gristly flesh had become impacted. The man was speecliless, with flutter, ing pulse and cold sweat. He injected six grains of tartar emetic into a vein. Half an hour after- wards the piece of flesh was ejected with great violence. The man recovered. Balck, in 178-1, performed a like operation under like circum- stances, and with the like success. It was not then clearly known that the mere subcutaneous injection of medicinal substances might have answered the sinne purposes. Hennnian, a Ger- man, injected into a vein of a person apparently dying of typhus an infusion of bark and harts- horn : the patient recovered. After being practically laid aside, transfusion was again examined and placed upon a better footing by Dr. BUmdell, at Guy's hospital. The modern revival of the operation is due to him. Dr. O'Sliaughnessy proposed the injection of saline fluids in cholera. Dr. Latta, of Edinburgh, put the proposal into practice; of fifteen cases of cholera-collapse, one-third recovered. Manj' prac- titioners, and amongst them Dr. Tueedie, Dr. Craigie, Dr. Murphy, Dr. Girdwood, Mr. Arthur, Dr. Little and his son, Mr. L. S. Little, followed tliis example. All had cases of recovery. The practical questions are these :—1st, what is the best fluid to inject.' 2ndly, what is the best apparatus and mode of operating ? I'rdly, what are the conditions indicating or justifying transfusion ^or infusion ? 1. Tr.insfusion of course implies that blood shill be used. Biit blood iii diffoi tnt states, and from alien animiils, has been used. It appeared to result fjom the experiments of Dielfenbacli and others that to obtain success it is necessary to take blood from an animal of the same species. But tJie annals of transfusion contain many proofs that this conclusion is erroneous. It hag, liowever, been generally agreed that for hinnan transfusion human blood siiall be used. In selecting a giver, it is not necessary to regard the sex, but only tlie Hate of health. In many of tlie experiments on animals, the blood was drawn from an artery, but in iiuman transfusions the blo:,d is drawn from a VOJ,. II. vein. Dr. Gesellus, of St. Petersburg, obtained the blood by scarifying the skin and suction, the blood collecting in a tube connected with a pneu- matic pump. {Praclilioncr, 18G9.) It^is quite clear that venous blood answers the purpose. Then the question arises as to the best moile of dealing with this blood. The practical difficulty which, perhaps more than any other, has retarded the extensive use of the operation, has been the tendency of the blood to coagulate rapidly after being withdrawn from the veins. Tiiis has frequently baffled the operation, the blood clot- ting in the apparatus, in the veins of the patient, or perhaps in his heart. Various inquiries and expedients, suggested by tlie hope of averting this difficulty, have arisen. In m:iny of the experi- ments on animals immediate transfusion, that is, transmission direct from vein to vein, was prac- tised. Dr. Aveling, Ore', and others advised this, in the expectation that the blood, being secured from contact with air, and never being at rest, it could not coagulate. But even under these con- ditions, the difficulty is not certainly overcome. At one time great stress was laid on keeping the blood, received in a funnel or other reservoir, at the same temperature as that of the body. 13ut this is undoubtedly a physiological mistake. Cold retards coagulation, and there is no inconvenience from injecting blood a few degrees below the nor- mal standard. The operation, then, may be sim- plified by disregarding care as to temperature. It was thought that the object might be attained by depriving the blood of its coagulating constituent. This led to defibrination, by whipping the fibrin out, and then injecting the serum and globules. Experiments were made to ascertain what were the constituents of the blood which were capable of restoring life. It is proved by two cases, those of Polli and Nussbaum, that defibrinated blood is efficient. Dr. Albanese reports {Ceulndbt. \i6Q) seven cases in which he used warm defibrinated filtered blood. He introduced the injection- syringe into the radial artery. Four recovered. In about fifteen other cases the use of defibrinated blood was unsuccessful. Ore' proved that the blood-globules were efficient. Panuin contends that the serum contains vivifying elements. In the case of cholera patients, again, it is quite proved that the simple infusion of saline fluids is enough. It results that the fibrin may be taken out, but this involves a loss of time; also that it certainly does no harm if it can be got into the eirculation of the patient in its fluid state. The large number of recoveries fi "om tlie transfusion of whole blood renders it probable that it is better to use it as nearly as possible in the natural state. VYe come back, then, upon the question, how to prevent it from coagulating? Dr. Richardson, eighteen years ago, in his admirable work on " the causes of the coagulation of the blood," proposed the addition of a fevv drops of aminonia to every ounce of blood for this purpose. This, he says, effectually preserves fluidity. Dr. Br.ixton Ilieks, pursuing the Rame idea, in Guifs J{(^pi>rts, 1809, proposed a solution of pho.sphate of soda. He used it in several cases; and although the patients did not recover, the special purpose was attained. 2. What is the best form of apparatus ? The answer depends greatly upon tlie fluid cm- ployed. Those who contend for immediate trans- fusion use a caoutchouc tube, armed at cacli end 3 D