611 SPINE, CURVATURES OP, fiirm, such as its proper and healthj* nutrition; or upon some external physical influences to which it is pre-eminently exposed; or, as occurs in the great majority of cases, upon a combination of both these causitive influences. Hence we have the con- stitutional and local origin of distortions. These two classes of cases, viz. diseases and dis- tortions of the spine, were, by the older surgical authorities, frequently considered as one and the same form of disease; but the wide separation be- tween them, and their easy diagnosis, may now be considered as well established and too well known to require comment here. The spinal column, then, is liable to distortion, i. e. fixed deviation from the erect position, in various directions, so as to produce external defor- mity. The distortion may take place in the antero- pnaterior direction, either as an exaggeration of the natural curves of the spine, which become so much increased as to produce external deformity; or the natural curvatures of the spine in the antero-pos- terior direction may be reversed, especially in the dorsal and cervical regions, i.e. the dorsal curve may become depressed so as to project anteriorly, curving forwards instead of backwards; the cervi- cal curve may project backwards instead of for wards; and the lumbar curve frequently becomes straight instead of curving anteriorly. Or distor tion ma}' occur as a lateral deviation, though the deformity described as lateral curvature of the spine does not depend upon a true lateral deviation, but rather upon a peculiar twisted, or contorted, con- dition of the spinal column, in which an external lateral deviation of the spinous processes generally, but not invariably, forms a conspicuous feature. Deviations of the spine, either in the antero- posterior or the lateral directions, may coexist with destructive disease of the spine, affecting the in- tervertebral cartilages and the bones in the early stage ; or they may be consecutive to such diseases, and remain as permanent distortions after the de- structive disease has been completely^ arrested. For example, when destructive disease occurs in the dorsal region, as we frequently see it in children, and sometimes in adults, the posterior convexity of the spine is increased, and there may be great difficulty in deciding upon the existence or non- existence of disease. At a later stage, however, a sharp angular projection of one or more spinous processes generally takes place, and all doubt as to the existence of disease is removed ; but occa- sionally it happens that several intervertebral car- tilages are affected without caries of the bones, as exhibited in prrparations in St. Thomas's Museum, N E 20 and E 22, and in such cases no angular projection of the spinous processes would take place. When destructive disease in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar vertebrfe has become arrested, with the ordinary result of angular projection backwards of three or four spinous processes, the spine becomes altered in form, as a consecutive comlition, in the middle dorsal region, which is either depressed so as to form a straight line, or the natural direction of its curve may be reversed, and a concavity instead of a convexity may exist in the middle dorsal region. Deviation of the spine in a lateral direction may also occur in the early stage of destructive disease, when it attacks the bodies of the vertebra}, or the inteivertebral cartilages, laterally instead of their anterior aspects as it usually does; or in the later stages, it may exist as a consecutive curve, either above or below the angular projection resulting from destructive disease, when this has affected the lower or the upper portion of the spinal column. Curvature of the spine, then, either in the an- terior, posterior, or lateral direction, may coexist with destructive disease of the spine in its early stage without any reliable symptoms or indications of such disease being present. It is as well thi.s should be borne in mind, because, in the course of practice, cases will occasionally present themselves in which the diagnosis must be one of considerable difficulty, as well as of great importance; and we know that disease of the spine in the early stage ■is at all times difficult of diagnosis. Curvatures or distortions of the spinal column, not connected with, or directly dependent upon, destructive disease of the bones or intervertebral cartilages, generally depend either upon muscular debility associated with some unfavourable con- stitutional condition, or upon the long continuance of some faulty position, the result either of acquired habit or of some occupation; or they may depend upon both these causes combined. This is essen- tiall}'- the class of cases it is here proposed to de- scribe, and first with regard to the aatero-posterior forms of curvature. ANTERrOR CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. Lordosis—Ao'pSajo-iy from \op5da>, to lend su- pinely, so as to throio tlte liead hack. Curvature of the spine in an anterior direction, with the con- vexity in front, occurs chiefly in the lumbar region, as an increase of the natural curvature, from several causes; but it may also exist in the dorsal region to a less extent, and more rarely it occurs in the cervical region. In the lumbar region this increase of anterior curvature is found;— 1. As a peculiarity in the natural conformation of the individual, often existing in several mem- bers of the same family, and hereditary'. It is more common in some countries than in others, but in England I have most frequently observed it in short people with long bodies and short legs, i.e. belonging to the rachitic type of development, and whose bony development exhibits some indications of a rachitic tendency. 2. As a constant effect of rickets in its more severe forms, in which the entire skeleton indicates the existence of this affection in the stunted growth of the individual from arrested development of the bones—more conspicuous in the leg-bones from their normal rapid rate of growth during early- childhood, as compared with the spine and other bones of the body, hence the disproportionate short- ness of the legs in these cases—and in various curvatures especially affecting the leg-bones and the pelvis. In severe rickets, the pelvis becomes flattened from above downwards, from the inability of its bones to support the superincumbent weight, and the sacrum assumes a horizontal direction. As a necessary result of this alteration in the di- rection of the sacrum, and the deviation in the axis of the pelvic cavity, an increase of the limtbar curve of the spine takes place to preserve tho o(iui- 'ibrium of the body, and in these cases of rickets a very marked lordosis is the result. 'A. As a constant ell'ect of congenital disloca- tion, either of one or both hip joint"", an affection 11 11 2