676 TALIPES. uRpd for some years in sustaining the weight of the body in pmgressinn, the external characters, as above described, become materially modilied. In conseqnence of the weight being thrown upon the outer bolder of the foot, the metatarsal bones gradually yield in a direction backwards, so that the individual at last walks completely on the dorsum of the foot. Two modifications in external form result from this:— , . , , 1st. The aspect of the sole of the foot looks upwards and backwards, and the dorsum is directed forwards and downwards. •2nd. A deep longitudinal furrow, or depression, is gradually formed in the sole of the foot, in con- sequence of the narrowing of the transverse arch of the foot; and a transverse, or obliquely trans- verse, depression across the sole of the foot at its posterior part is formed in consequence of the lateral bending of the foot upon itself in the di- rection of its length, by which the sole of the foot is brought into opposite relation with the lateral aspect of the os calcis. .-1 dorsal cushion, of condensed fat and cellular tissne, is formed on the convexity of the foot whicli has to sustain the weight of the body in progression, and a large bursa is frequently formed between this cushion and the surfice of the tarsal bones. This compensative provision is attended with peculiar disadvantages, such as cutaneous and bursal inflammation, liable to be followed by a most intractable ulceration, some- times rendering amputation necessary. Atrophy of the ley from disuse takes place when the deformity is allowed to remain up to the period of youth or adult life; the growth of tlie leg below the knee is defective in every respect, 80 that it presents the appearance of an atrophied or dwindled extremity. The length of the club- footed leg in the adult is always diminished from this cause; and shortening from half an inch to an inch below knee always exists, the foot itself also being an inch, or more than an_inch, shorter than the opposite foot. MORBID ANATOMT OF CONGENITAL TALIPES VARUS. The anatomical deviations in congenital varus are materially modified by the age of the patient, and it is obviously of so much importance to accurately determine the essential and acquired conditions in the morbid anatomy of this de- formity, that it is advisable to describe — 1st. The deviations which essentially belong to the defcn-mity at the period of birth; and 2nd. Tlie superadded or acquired conditions met with in the adult. Is*. Morlnd Anatomy of Talipes varus in the Infant. The bones are found to present the following important deviations in respect both of their posi- tion and form :— The OS calcis is much altered in position, but only slightly in form; it occupies a very oblique and, in severe cases, almost vertical position, from its tuberosity being drawn upwards by the gas- trocnemius and soleus muscles. Its direction is also somewhat changed laterally, the tuberosity being inclined towards, and in severe cases in contact with, the fibula. In form the os calcis is filigluly altered, being regularly arcliod in the direction of its length, with the convexity out- wards, in adaptation to"the curved position of the foot. 7'he astragalus is very materially altered, both in position and form. In position it is tilted obliquely forwards and downwards, and to a certain extent displaced from its socket, so as to assume, in a severe case, almost a vertical position, in consequence of the oblique position of the os calcis, and elevation of its tuberosity. The astra- galus is also in some degree rotated outwards, so that the external lateral articular facet is firmly in contact with the fibula, and appears to be some- what increased in size; whilst the internal lateral articular facet is scarcely to be traced, and in severe cases is not at all in contact with the arti- cular surface of the inner malleolus. The astragalus is very much altered in form— indeed, this is the only "bone which presents any important deviations from the natural form; and these are observable in its head and neck, its articular surfaces, and its posterior border. The neck of the astragalus, instead of being continued directly forwards, as in the healthy bone, inclines abruptly inwards tow.irds the inner malleolus, forming an obtuse angle with the body of the bone. The articular head of the astragalus, instead of presenting a regularly convex surface, looking di- rectly forwards," as in the healtliy bone, has an antero-lateral aspect; and in a severe case is di- vided into two articular facets, placed nearly at right-angles to each other, and separated by a distinctly angular ridge. One surface, the larger, looks directly inwards, and articulates with the displaced navicular bone; the other looks directly f irwards, and is left exposed on the dorsum of the fo it, l]y the altered position of the navicular bone, and is covered only by the elongated portion of the ligaments normally passing from the neck of the astragalus to the edge of the navicular bone. ^ The lateral articular facets are both partially extruded from the ankle-joint, and appear in front of the malleoli, in consequence of the altered posi- tion of the astragalus, and present some deviations already adverted to. The superior articular surface of the astragalus is partially extruded from the socket of the ankle- joint, and exposed on the dorsum of the foot, 'i his surface is also elongated by the articular cartilage extending quite to tho posterior edge of the bone, which is thin, attenuated, and wedge-shaped : a transverse line or ridge traverses this surface, separating the posterior two-thirds which are in- cluded in the ankle-joint from the anterior third wliich has been extruded from the joint The navicular bone is altered in position to an extreme degree, but is very slightly, if at all, altered in form. This bone is drawn inwards and upwards by the tibialis posticus muscle directlj', and bv the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollici's muscles indirectly, so far as to bring its nner border, or tuberosity, directly under and m contact with the inner malleolus. The nay.cidar hone, in its displaced position, articulates with the hiteral articular facet of the head of the astragalus above described, and therefore holds a lateral instead of anterior position with respect to the astragalus; in fact, the long axes f J" bones are parallel, instead of " ''Sj^^i' " ^^ to each other. The long axis of tie bone is, therefore, parallel with tue long axis of