SCLEROTIC. 549 sarsaparilia would,^robably, always cure what re- sisted mercury. (Medical OU. and Inq. vol. i.) CuUen considered sarsaparilia us possessing no virtues of any kind ; for, says he, " tried in every shape, I have never found it an effectual medicine HI syphilis, or any other disease." {Mat. Med. vol. ii.) Mr. Bronitield declares, that lie never saw a single instance in which sarsaparilia cured the ve- nereal disease without the aid of niercur)-, either ^ivea before, or in conjunction with it. (Pract. Otis, on the Use uf Corrosive Sublimate, S[c. p. TiJ.) Mr. Pearson also contends, that sarsaparilia lius not the potver of curing any one form of the lues venerea ; but he allows, that it may suspend, for a time, the ravages of that contagion, the disease re- turning;, if no mercury should have been used. This gentleman admits, also, that sarsaparilia will alleviate symptoms derived from the venereal virus. He maintains, that t!ie exhibition of sarsaparilia does not diminish the necessity for giving less mercury. Nocturnal pains in the limbs, painful enlargements of the elbow and knee, membranous nodes, cutaneous ulcerations, and certain other symptoms, resembling venereal ones, are often ex- perienced after a full course of mercury. Such complaints, Mr. Pearson allows, are greatly bene- fited by sarsaparilia, and exasperated by mercury; and, he observes, that it is from these complaints having been mistaken for venereal ones, that the idea has arisen, that sarsaparilia has cured syphilis, when mercury had failed. Mercury and the ve- nereal poison may jointly produce, in certain con- stitutions, symptoms which are not strictly vene- real, and are sometimes more dreadful than the simple effects of syphilis. Some of the worst ot these appearances are capable of being cured by sarsaparilia, while the venereal virus still remains in the system. When this latter disease has been eradicated by mercury, sarsaparilia will also cure the sequelae of a course of the other medicine. {Pearson, On the Effects of various Articles in the Cure of Lues Venerea, 18U7.) The value of many of the foregoing opinions is much affected by the results of modern inquiries into the nature of the venereal disease, the general possibility of curing which, without the aid of mercury, seems well established, though the expe- diency of the method is another question. [There can be no doubt that sarsaparilia is of great service in all cases of syphilitic cachexia, ranking next in effi acy to the hydriodate of potash in tertiary syphilis, whether manifested in the form of nodes, caries or necrosis, rupia, or sloughing of the palate and larynx. (See Ve- .vEiiEAL Disease.)] SCA'LPEL. (from scalpo, to scrape.) Ori- ginally a raspatory, or instrument for scraping dis- eased bones, &c. The term now generally signifies any common surgical knife. SCA'RIFICATION. (from scarijico, to sca- rify.) The operation of making little cuts, or puncture.", in a part, for the purpose of taking away blood, letting out fluid in anasarcous and erysipelatous cases, or the air of emphysema. SCIURHUS ; SCIRRHOMA ; SCIRRHO- SIS. (from (TKippdw, to harden.) The etymolo- gical import of these terms seems merely to be induration. The first is now generally restricted to the induration which attends scirrhous cancer. (See Ca.n'cek.) THE SCLEROTIC [The Sclerotic (The Sclera, " the white of the eye ") is a fibrous capsule with a larger opening for the passage of the optic ner' eand numerous smaller ones, especially immediately in front and behind the insertion of the recti-muscles, and round the optic nerve, for the blood-vessels and nerves of the choroid. The surface of the sclerotic is slightly grooved just behind the insertion of the recti-muscles, for the reception of their tendons. It is very slightly depressed at the line of junc- tion with the cornea. At this spot is situated the circular sinus or canal of Shlemm (a webb of ves- sels for venous blood). Anteriorly, the sclerotic assists in forming the boundary of the anterior chamber, so that a knife thrust through it half a line behind the margin of the cornea, enters the chamber without wounding the iris. The sclerotic glides within a capsule termed " Tenons capsule," which is attached to the margin of the orbit behind the suspensory liga- ment of the eyelids and further back merges into the sheath of the optic nerve. This capsule isolates the eyeball from the soft parts of the orbit. Through it, the muscles of the eyeball (loosely attached to it) have to pass, to reach the sclerotic. Behind their insertion, loose connective tissue is found between the capsule and the sclerotic. The sclerotic receives few blood-vessels and nerves. The sub-coiijunctival tissue in front of the insertion of the recti-muscles is nourished by capillaries which anastomose with blood-vessels aoing to the ciliary processes, and overfulness of the latter, whether chronic or acute, betrays itself by enlargement of vessels upon the sclerotic near the margin of the cornea. The sclerotic, otherwise of a dead white colour, appears brilliant white where it is covered by conjunctiva. The thicker the sclerotic, the whiter it appears, the thinner, the more blueish. In dark persons, small or large brown or black pigment spots may be seen in its ciliary portion. In highly myopic persons, it often appears blueish (semi- transparent) about the region of the yellow spot. Prolonged congestion of the ciliary veins leads to enlargement of their respective sclerotic apertures. We make ourselves familiar with the shades of colour of the sclerotic, which lie within the limits of health, by examining the sclerotic of many fair and dark persons. The colour of the inner (choroidal) surface of the sclerotic can in fair persons readily be recog- nised with the ophthalmoscope, while in dark ones (in choriiids with much pigment) too little light reaches the sclerotic to render it conspicuous. Some of the light, if the sclerotic is very thin, passes through it, and the large blood-vessels can be per- ceived in its substance. Tlie thickness of a healthy full-grown sclerotic near the optic nerve amounts to ^^in., a quarter of an inch behind the margin of the cornea to ^in., and immediately behind the insertion of the recti- muscles to TrWin. In some cases when the " vitreous " is removed: the sclerotic and the adjoining tunics are thrown into folds, in other equally healthy eyes they remain expanded, and retain their curvature though all the " vitreous " may have been re- moved. The arrangement and proportions of tlie dilferent kinds of tissue of which the sclerotic is composed, vary in its dilforcnt parts, especially