482 GLAND. i'ROSTATE One of the earliest symptoms generally observ- a\)le is a iimuifsbt diminution in the force with whiih the urine is ejected. Tlie desire to pass water becomes more frequent than natural, and the relief afforded by the act of niicturiiion is less complete. In course of time, however, the act must be more repeatedly performed, and the period of night is no longer e.xenipt from the calls to pass water. Pains in the groin, testicles, and thiglis are sometimes, but by no means commonly, com- plained of, and a sense of weiglit and fulness about the perinsaum, rectum, and liypngastrium is felt by the patient. An unpleasant odour ajjpears in the urine, which is new to him, irritation of the rectum is experienced, the contents of the bowel are more frequently passed from inability on the part of the patient to prevent the act of defsecation accompanying that of micturition; and tenesmus, protrusion of the mucous membrane or prolapsus, and hffiniorrhoidal swellings, are apt to result. Much stress has been laid by some writers, fol- lowing J. L, Petit, who seems to have originated the idea, on the appearance of flattened stools as an indication of enlargement,but without sufficient grounds. As the disease advances, symptoms of distended bladder or of chronic inflammation of that organ are experienced; and pain in the urethra, extending to the glans penis, becomes severe, often attended by some niuco-purulent discharge. If unrelieved by art, the bladder yields to the constantly- augmenting demand upon it, becomes habitually filled, the surplus only flows off at each act of micturition, and at night when voluntary control is suspended by sleep, and even by day, urine drains away, to the great discomfort of the patient. This condition is generally described as inconti- nence, a misapplication of the term, as we shall hereafter see, which has been productive of fatal errors in practice. The characters presented by the urine are im- portant, being such as mainly depend on decom- position of some of its constituents from retention, mixed with the products of chronic inflammation of the bladder. At first it is a little cloudy, often pale, with a few shreds or flocculi suspended in it; more or less of mucous deposit slowly settles at the lower part of the vessel; it becomes alkaline, and a thin pellicle forms on the surface, more or less whitish and opaque, sometimes iridescent. In later stages the mucus increases in quantity, and appears as the slimy adhesive matter so often seen in chronic inflammation of the bladder; not miscible with the urine, it adheres to the side of the vessel, and follows the urine as it is poured out from one to another, in a mass which it is difficult to separate. In advanced cases this mucus is sometimes mixed with blood, and often exhibits traces of calculous, generally phosphatic, matter, in the form of small amorphous masses of soft consistence and whitish colour. In such circumstances as those described, it is of the utmost importancu to remember that the bladder becomes permanently distended, unless the catheter be employed; and the urine gradu- ally increasing in quantity at length opens out the orifice, and flows off spontaneously. To designate this pheiu)nienon the term incontinence was ori- ginally applied, and is still employed by iniiiiy, although the condition so described is in reality the very reverse of incunlinence, ainco the bladder idready contains too much, and the surplus only overflows, the viscus often retaining much more than its capacity in a state of health would admit of. The bladder is in fact engorged, Kai. the urine overjlinvs. This phenomenon of involuntary micturition in elderly persons is very frequently accounted for, not on the ground of obstruction, but on that of paralysis aiiecting the bladder ; and the terin incontinence has been employed to designate this condition also, although it presents a state which is the exact reverse to that already so described. In this latter case it is rightly used; but to the former condition, it is a grave error thus to apply it. But the condition of paralysis, except when manifest hemiplegia or paraplegia are present, is very uncommon, and it follows then that real incontinence is a very rare occurrence in the adult male. That it is so is one of the most salutary and important lessons which the student can learn. It should be held as an axiom, the importance of which it is impossible to overrate, that an in- voluntary flow of urine indicates retention, not incontinence. How often has the overflow of surplus urine from an engorged bladder concealed the real evil from an inexperienced practitioner, and induced the patient to believe that his " water was too abundant, or passed too freely," and wanted repressing rather than withdrawing. And what has been his astonishment, when, the true state of matters being recognised by his attendant, the introduction of a catheter has given exit to some pints, it may he, of the retained urine ! The dingnosis of hypertrophied prostate depends on the following particulars. The age from fifty years upwards, rarely under sixty; symptoms of obstruction to the outflow of urine commencing to appear, or having only lately appeared; enlarge- ment of prostate felt by examination in the rectum, and the catheter requiring to be passed to a greater distance, or to be more depressed between the patient's legs before urine appears, than in the natural state. When these conditions concur there is little doubt of the nature of the case, but error may arise from its similarity to other dis- eased conditions. The following distinctive signs it may therefore be useful to point out. In stricture of the urethra, the stream of urine is invariably small, in a confirmed case extremely so ; in the prostatic affection, though diminished in force, it is not necessarily much so in volume; the use of a full-sized sound, however, marks the distinction clearly. In stricture, obstruction is usually encountered before six inches of the in- sirument have disappeared, always before it ar- rives at the prostatic urethra. Lastly, stricture almost invariably makes its appearance before middle life, prostatic hypertrophy not until that period is passed. In regard of calculus, the occurrence of sudden cessation of tlie stream of urine, of severe pain at tiie close of micturition, the exacerbation of symp- toms, especially of pain, and the appearance of a little blood after exercise, may be looked upon ns stronglv indicating the presence of stone in the bladder. But it may exist in the absence of most of these svmptoms,the two first-named especially.trom the cirt-umstance that the calculus is usually situated behind the enlarged prostate, and does not approach the more sensitive region of the internal meatus. The fact of small quantities of Hond and unmixed