1035 WOUNDS. protracted, and will require the strenuous employ- iiieiit of sii«h invigorating measures as are put into lorco in lilte circiiiustiuices. To relieve tiie pain of wasp, Ijce, or hornet stings, lotions of anniionia, eau lie Cologne, bicar- bonate of soda, narcotics, olive oil, poultices of jiowdered Ipecacuanha, Goulard's lotion, salt and water, &c., may be used. If the sting remain in the wound it should be withdrawn by means of n fine piir of forceps, or pressing the barrel of a watch-key over it. The union of wounds may be delayed by the nature of the textures which are involved in it, by the presence of foreign bodies, by the want of rest, by unskilful applications, and by the want of vigour in the patient. If the patient's bluod is in an unfit state to supply the materials of repair by reason of constitutional disease, or if the requisite nerve force is not provided, then repair may be ab- normally slow or altogether fail. As regards the complications which may attend wounds, they are both numerous and important. They may he pi ima)y or secondary, local ov general. Inflammation, erysipehis, foreign bodies, haemo- rrhage, infiltration of irritating fluids, sloughing or gangrene, tetanus, paralysis, purulent absorp- tion, opened articulations or injury of viscera, &c., &c. All of these are considered under vari- ous lieads in this work. Traumatic gangrene demands a short notice. It is one of the most serious of all the complications of lacerated and contused wounds. It may appear very quickly after the receipt of a wound, or not develope itself for a considerable time. In the worst or most rapid form of such gangrene the limb is so irre- trievably destroyed, its vitality is so compromised, that it mortifies at once, and that apparently with- out resistance. In such cases the soft parts may be quite jellified and its blood-vessels so destroyed that disorganisation quickly follows. This is not, however, the usual progress of events. An interval commonly interposes between the receipt of the injury and the outset of those constitutional and local signs which are associated with traumatic gangrene. During the interval reaction sets in, but the weakened textures being unable to with- stand its effects, die. Even though the soft parts are not so hopelessly injured as is above supposed, yet if the blood-vessels are ruptured so that the arterial supply to the part is cut off, and if the veniius blood stagnates, then the same unfortunate result may be anticipated. The rapidity with which the limb may be destroyed by gangrene appearing after a severe railway, round shot or machinery accident, especially in persons of intem- perate habits cr unhealthy conbtitution, or who are badly circumstanced for recovery, is some- times appalling. The surgeon is the more alarmed in many cases from his inability accurately to define the limits of the disease, aa it may pass far up in the planes of cellular tissue, superficial and deep, from its apparent bounds, and so if amputation has to be performed, it must be at a point much nearer the trunk than the external niimifestations of the affection would lead the inexpeiienced to believe. It is unnecessary to describe here the signs of this dire form of gangrene, as it will bo fully dwelt upon ebe where. As regards the treatment required for this de- structive form of gangrene, it is always very dilliciilt snd anxious. Wiicthcr to remove "the Mmb carlv. and high above the limit of the disease in parts to which the morbid action lias not yet extended, even in the deep planes of cellular tissue, or to wait the subsidence of the more severe symptoms, and obtain, if possible, some indication of the point where it inclines to cease, is often a subject of the gravest anxiety to the surgeon. Either step is full of peril, and fraught with* disappointment. We get no line of demarcation as a rule to guide us, and if amputation is to be successful, we must have recourse to it befare the vital powers are much exhausted, and so far away from the appa- rent limits of the destruciioii as to appear cruel and unnecessary to the inexperienced. By fully sup- porting the strength, administering opium freelv, and employing soothing local remedies, the march of ihe disease may be arrested, and then we re- move the diseased parts in tissues that are well removed from the focus of morbid action. If this is not done sooner or later the gangrene spreads to the trunk, and the patient dies, if he has not suc- cumbed sooner to the waste and bloodpoisoning. The danger of a recurrence of the gangrene in the stump is of course to be apprehended, especially after amputation of the lower limb. In truth, the results of operation for spreading gangrene are suf- ficiently discouraging, yet without amputation the patient dies. Tlie soundest side of the limb should be chosen from which to fashion the flips, and great gentleness should be employed in their dressing. Opium should be freely given to the patient during convalescence, and his strength sedulously augmented by nourishing food and stimulants suited to liis taste and wants. Foreign bodies of very various kinds may be found in wounds. It is not requisite that "these be here enumerated. The more liable to absorb the secretions of the wound and to decompose such bodies are, the more injurious they will prove. Metallic bodies may long remain harmless, and may even become encysted, but even these are most usually hurtful, and should, if possible, be re- moved, so long as the steps necessary thereto are not more injurious than can arise from allowing the intruder to remain undisturbed. The pre- sence of a foreign body is often the cause of a wound remaining fistulous, or closing and re-open- ing at varying hitervals. If it press on a nerve most distressing effects may follow. The patient is occasionally conscious of the presence and ap- parent movements of foreign bodies imprisoned in his tissues, and not unfrequeiitly they can be felt and their outline distinguished after the parts are healed. Parts thus fretted are constantly liable to innainmation and abscess, and sharp bodies may migrate freely from the point where they originally entered. This is especially true of needles, which have often appeared long years after introduction at parts far removed from where they entered. In their transit they may occasion great harm by wounding important organs, but the instances in which they have done so form but a small pro- portion of the cases in which their expulsion has been safely accomplished. Ilicinurrliaye in all its forms occurring as a com- plication of wounds is fully discussed in vol. i. of this bonk. It remains for the completion of this article to review very brielly those wounds of regions which require special description over and above what has been uttenipted iu the foregoing pages.