system is oppressed; the head aches, tho heart and lungs are oppressed ; aiul all these symptoms of milk fever go, when hyperemia and secretion from the breasts is established, just as all symp- toms of inHanimatoiy fever go on the appearance of an eruption, or formation of a critical abscess. As with natural processes, so with diseases. All hy peraamia is not inflammatory; y et who can say where one ceases and the other begins ? All exuda- tions are not inflammatory ; but it must be remarked that the distinction between such as are and are not, is often purely arbitrary or conjectural. In the case of slow, silent deposit of cancer, or what is called "tubercle," who shall say that "inflamma- tion" in a languid state was, or was not, present ? But the same exudation, or new formation which may at one time grow without inflammation, may at another have a distinctly inflammatory charac- ter. The first observer of fungus hsematodes called it spongy inflammation. Hypertrophy is not neces- sarily inflammatory, yet in some instances, as of the hypertrophy of cuticle in psoriasis, and of cartilage and bone and tendon,in common andsyphi- litic gout and rheumatism, is attended with truly inflammatory symptoms. " A number," says Vir- chow, " of inflammatory processes on their first appearance really exhibit nothing more than an in- creased assumption of material into the interior of the cells, entirely resembling what we find in simple hypertrophy. * * * It is extremely difficult in many cases to distinguish simple hypertrophy from those forms of inflammatory processes, which are essentially accompanied by increased absorption of nutritive material." {Op. cit. p. 297.) So Avith regard to pain. Inflammation and neuralgia are usually considered opposites, and if certain specimens of each be compared, are so. But they meet and amalgamate, so that no definite line can be drawn between them; and there are many true neuralgias, curable by stimulants and tonics, from which it is impossible to exclude the term inflam- mation, if rigorously applied. From what has gone before, it will be seen that there are no elements or processes in inflammation which are in themselves unnatural or foreign to the animal economy ; it is their excess or perversion, or occurrence under circumstances unfavourable to life or its enjoyment, which constitute inflamma- tion a disease. Section 2.—Analysis and description of the symp- lomsof inflammation; and first of the local symptoms, —Having discussed thesepreliminary matters, now let us come to a description and .analysis of the symptoms of inflammation in its most typical form. Let us suppose that a man, who habitually in- dulges in more food and spirituous liquors than his system requires, and who is somewhat irregular in his habits, meets with a severe bruise, and that he neglects the injury, lives as usual, and gives no rest to the injured part. Then probably will follow the following phenomena:— Intense pain of a throbbing character ; sensa- tion of heat ; swelling elevated in tho middle, and tight ; soft and oodematous at its circumference ; redness vivid in the centre, paler around, and gradually Inst in tho natural colour of the skin ; and the natural use of the injured part either ren- dered impossible, or attended with extreme pain and difficulty. With these local symptoms others will be conjoined, showing the participation of the ilATION. II entire body in the disease. There will be shiver- ing, or at least a creeping sensation of coldness down tho spine ; yet the skin, perhaps, is hot and dry; there will be flushed face and headache ; general languor; sleeplessness or delirium at night; a white tongue ; loss of appetite; thirst; and defec- tive action of the bowels ; the urine scant3% These symptoms may be divided, for the sake of analysis, into local and constitutional. The local consisting of pain, heat, swelling, and redness, with impaired function; the constitutional, of fever. Let us investigate these one by one:— First, as to the pain ; respecting which we may observe that, although pathologists formerly ex- pended much ink in endeavouring to show why inflammation was painful, we may rest content with the fact that Providence has wisely ordered all the actions of the healthy body so that they shall be executed, not only without pain, but with a certain obscure consciousness of pleasure, which is one of the highest privileges^ of health and strength; and that, on the contrarj"-, many of the sensations and actions of the diseased body shall be painful. This we may treat as an ultimate fact. Yet without enquiring into the essential nature of pain, we may analyse its varieties, as the knowledge of these is often highly important in practice. In the first place, the pain of inflammation may depend on the original cause of the inflammation, and will vary according to the nature of that. Of the external causes of inflammation — the various kinds and degrees of violence, or of irritation—each probably produces a pain peculiar to itself. This is evident by the fact that people speak of cutting, stabbing, and tearing pain ; of burning, and scald- ing, and the like. This is also true with regard to the internal causes of inflammation. Every variety of exudation that may be poured into a part pro- bably causes its own kind of pain. The pain of boil or carbuncle differs from that of phlegmasia ; rheumatic pain is not the same as gout; eczema, herpes, and psoriasis, each causes a sensation dif- fering from that of erythema, and from that of each other. Secondly, the pain of inflammation will vary Avith the part inflamed. Every part has a certain limited number of sensations, which alone are pos- sible to it; and which alone can be excited in health or in disease;—subjectively, or objectivelj'. This is most true and most evident in the case of the organs of special sense. When the eye is diseased there may be flashes of light; when the ear, there may be sounds of various kinds ; when the skin, various itchings and smartings. And in respect of parts which are not specially endowed as organs of sense, each has its own variety of feeling, which is provoked by in- flammation. The aching of bones and ligaments, the stabbing produced by stretching an inflamed pleura, tho sickening pain of inflamed testicles, may be examples. Moreover, not only tho sensibility of any organ, but its connection with visceral nerves, will give a character to tho suffering it occasions when in- flamed, and an apparent degree of gravity or danger. Thus inflammation of a kidney or testicle may pro- duce considerable faintness or nausea. Together with perverted sensibility there will be perverted receptivity of impressions, and these will be transmitted to tho spinal cord, mid produce