LITHOTOMY. 244 the rectum. Of three individuals, within his Icnowledge, who have been operated upon in this , _ —J- manner for very large stones, two died soon after- wards of slougliing of the bladder, and the third led for some time a miserable existence, discharg- ing fcBcal urine, and urine mixed with excrement. Instructed by these disasters, some Italian sur- geons, not declared advocates for the new method, very laudably endeavoured to obviate them in future; and having ascertained that, for the ex- traction of a stone of moderate size, such as can be conveniently taken out by the perineum, it is not at all necessary to open the fundus of the blad- der, they adopted Sanson's second method—viz. that of cutting the sphincter ani from below upwards, and then laying open vertically, from above down- wards, the membranous part of the urethra and the prostate gland, so as to let the knife meet the first'wound in the sphincter." " In fact (says Scarpa), they really attained their object, namely, that of hindering the fa;ces from entering the blad- der after the extraction of the stone. This \yas, no doubt, of great importance in their operation, yet, as it seems to me, not a consideration that ought to make the recto-vesical preferable to the lateral operation, whenever the stone can be taken out through the perineum : first, because the verti- cal section of the membranous part of the urethra, and the prostate gland, cannot be executed with- out separating the left seminal duct, and some- times the right one, from the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis of the same side; secondly, because the wound is still exposed to the contact of the fajces." {Sid Taglio Rello- Vesicals, p. iv. Also, OpuscoU di Cliinirgia, vol. i. p. 69). In reply to "Vacca's observations, he urges also against the recto-vesical operation, according to Sanson's first method, when the wound must be made extensive enough for the removal of a large calculus, the risk there is of wounding the fold of the peritoneum, which, if the bladder is thickened and contracted, descends lower than is generally supposed (p. 36). This accident really happened in one case, which was dissected by Geri of Turin. {Report Med. CJiir. de Torino, No. 18.) Here we discern a strong reason against Mr. Sleigh's modification of the operation, in addition to the probability of an incurable communication between the rectum and the bladder, as suffi- ciently proved in the history of the recto-vesical operation. (See Scarpa s Upiiscoli, vol. i.) The part of the bladder which Mr. Sleigh proposes to di>4ide is the same as in the method first proposed by Sanson, and is bounded laterally by the vasa de- ferentia and vesiculaj seminales, superiorly by the cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, and inferiorly by the prostate gland and the union of the semnial tubes. The chief peculiarity in the plan is that of not dividing the sphincter ani and the prostate gland. Cutting the first part, he conceives, perhaps with- out sufficient foundation, must seriously increase the patient's suiferings; while dividing the pro- state gland vertically cannot be done without injuring one of the seminal ducts, a point on which he is more correct, and in agreement with Scarpa. In endeavouring to avoid this danger, however, he runs into a still more formidable one, viz., that of wounding the cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, and exciting fatal inflammation within the abdomen. {See Sleigirs Essa;/on a„ Improved Method of Cutlimj fur Urinary Calcult, or the Posterior Operation of Litltotomy, 8vo. London, 1824.) Even when the stone is of extraordinary magni- tude, it may be doubted whether the recto-vesical method ought to be preferred either to the high or the lateral operation; by which last stones of larger size than that extracted by Barbantini have been successfully taken out by Sir A. Cooper, Mr, Mayo of Winchester, Dr. Klein of Stuttgard, and others. We must agree, I think, with M. Velpeau, that it is quite an error to refer the difficulty of extracting a large calculus to the 'vaiit of space between the bones; and he, like Scarpa, cannot conceive how, in any method of lithotomy, the lower aperture of the" pelvis, if regularly formed, can hinder the extraction of the stone. The em- barrassment always arises from the opening in the bladder. In the recto-vesical operation the opening is restricted to the portion of the bladder between the prostate and the cul-de-sac of the peritoneum, so that it can be only, at the utmost, from twelve to fifteen lines in extent. Where then, inquires M. Velpeau, is the advantage, since in the bilateral operation an opening may be obtained from fifteen to twenty lines in extent ? And if the surgeon chose to cut the neck of the bladder beyond the base of the prostate, an opening two inches and a-half might be formed in the'bilateral operation, which in the recto-vesical method would be impracticable, without the greatest risk of wounding the peritoneum. (See M. Velpeau in Nouv. Elem.de Mid. Op'er. t. iii. p. 791.) Another serious consideration is, whether a lar^e incision forming a communication between the bladder and rectum will generally heal up as well, or even more favourably, than in Barbantini's case. A smaller wound in the same part, it appears, may be soon cured; for, in the instance reported by Sanson, the boy was quite well on the twentieth day. On this point, it must be confessed, modern reports are becoming extremely unfavourable. Of seven patients operated upon with division of the fundus of the bladder (says Professor Vacca), four were left with a recto-vesical fistula, and the fifth was in danger of one. In four cases operated upon, Professor Gen knew of three such terminations. Besides these facts, observes Scarpa, of which I could increase the number by others within my knowledge, it is to be taken into the account that in some individuals the fajcal and urinary fistula, after seeming to be closed for some time, has opened again. {SiU Taglio Retto- Vesicalc, p. 40.) In the School ot Practical Surgery at Turin, out of five operated upon through the rectum three died, although eleven other patients, cut in the lateral way, all recovered in a short time. Only one had rather severe symptoms, which were ascribed to a wound of the rectum. Dupuytren, who tried the recto- vesical operation in six instances, as performed by Vacca lost three of his patients of inflammation within the pelvis. Tlie first patient died a fort- night after the operation, and two on the third day. The three others remained with incurable fistula), through which the urine continually drib- bled, or was partially expelled when the bladaer contiactcd. (See M. Louis Senn, raraUele de la TaUle, Paris, li!24 ; Scarpa, <>/'/'^'^''/',^''''rZ'if vol.i. p. 135). Dupuytren,on beingasked one day if he would still try'the plan, made no answe , b shook his head. Barbantim, who first put