since it resolves itself into that which the systemic cundition requires. When it eontin\ies notwithstanding thnt the paralj'sis of the extremities or voluntary muscles elsewhere has diminished, the effect of countor- irritation over the sacrum should be tried; the in- . fluence of a galvanic current passed daily from the spine to the perineum, groins, and pubes in succes- sion, during a period of two or three weeks, is un- doubtedly beneficial in some of these cases. Added to this the indication is usually present for tonic treatment, for the administration of iron, and for cold bathing. Sometimes strychnia, in small doses, carefully watched, and continued for a con- siderable length of time is a valuable agent in these cases. Treatment of the second form, depending on an abnormal and very unusual form of hypertrophy of the prostate.—The mechanical condition which produces the disorder is not susceptible of altera- tion by any known mode of treatment. However, it is exceedingly rare, and few surgeons can cite more than a few examples of its occurrence. For this, as for the exceedingly common condition of unduly irritable bladder producing frequent mictu- rition, a well-made urina! is often essential to the comfort of the patient. In the circumstance now under consideration it is absolutely necessary. Treatment of the third form, depending on mechanical distension of the neck of the bladder and its results.—If it is due to the presence of urethro-vesical calculus the obvious course is to remove the cause, and after a successful operation the disappearance of the incontinence may be reckoned on. When it has persisted long after over-distension of the female urethra, it frequently defies all treatment. Generally, unless the dis- tension has been very considerable, and has in- deed probably amounted to serious rupture, the urethra will regain its tone within a few days after such operations, without any special treat- ment. In the worst cases it will often be found on careful examination that there has been some sloughing due to the violence used, and loss of some portion of the urethra essential to the proper performance of its function. The remedy for this condition is a plastic procedure of some kind, ■which will be considered in its place. The em- ployment of well-adapted apparatus to receive and retain the urine is here also indispensable to the patient's comfort. Treatment of the fourth form; or that partial incontinence which affects children and youm/ adults.—In 3'oung children the disorder usuiilly gets well of itself as they grow up and acquire strength. When they wet their beds really from idleness and carelessness (which I believe is rarely the case), moderate chastisement may be proper, inasmuch as the fear of correction will make them pay more attention to the earliest call of nature. It has always been my own conviction, that this doctrine is carried to an unjustifiable extent, par- ticularly in schools, and been a pretext for the most absurd kind of severity. Nor is it doubted by any man who understands the subject, that, in almost all cases, the disorder is a true infirmity, arising from the causes already indicated, and not from indolence ; the supposed crime taking place, in fact, when the child is asleep and unconscious' of what is happening. If excessive irritability and constitutional weak- TJRINE, RETENTION OF. g-g nei.8 be the cause of incontinence of urine, and a very small quantity of urine forces the bladder to contract, the resistance of the urethra being invo- luntarily overcome, an endeavour should be made to lessen such irritability by the use of the warm or the cold bath, sea-bathing, tonics, chalybcates, good air, &c. And, in order to prevent the acci- dent from taking place in the night-time, the child should not take any drink for some time before being put to bed; the bladder should be always emptied before sleep, and if necessary, the child ought to be taken up in the night for the same purpose. But by far the best remedy which I am ac- quamted with for these cases, acting indeed for many like a specific, is belladonna. It should be given in small doses three times a day, say for a child of three to five years old the twelfth of a grain of the extract to commence with, increasinn- it if necessary by degrees to three or four times that quantity. With older children the dose is to be larger in proportion. It is essential that the quality of the drug should be unexceptionable, otherwise the treatment will appear to be de- fective. Cauterising the prostatic urethra and neck of the bladder with a solution of fifteen to twenty grains of nitrate of silver to the ounce of distilled water has in my own hands effected cures after the failure of medicine. It is at first sometimes temporary only in its effects; but should be tried three or four times at least before relinquishing it as a remedy, I have had occasion only to use it at and after puberty.] Henry Thompson. URINE, RETENTION Q¥.-[Retention of urine is an inability, whether total or partial, of expelling by the natural efforts the urine contained in the bladder. The characteristic symptom, pre- vious to the introduction of the catheter, is disten- sion of the bladder, sometimes, but not always, to be perceived by an examination of the hypoga?- trium, after the patient has discharged all °the urine which he is capable of expelling. As this complaint may exist when the flow of urine from the bladder is by no means totally stopped, great caution is required to avoid mistakes. Violent efforts to make water are often excited at intervals and during these strainings small quantities of urine may be expelled. Such a case may be mis- taken for strangury, as it exists in acute inflamma- tion of the prostate gland, or of the bladder. At other times a retention of urine may really exist, though the patient can make water in a stream, and discharge in the course of the twenty- four hours a quantity equal to that which is com- monly discharged by a person in health. Under this circumstance the distension of the bladder will continue till the patient is relieved by the catheter. And lastly, it sometimes happens, when the bladder has suffered its utmost distension, that the urine runs off by the urethra as fast as it is brought into the bladder by the ureters. (See Urine,'Incon- TINRNCK OF.) In forming a correct judgment of all these cases it is very necessnry to recollect the important di- vision of retentions of urine into the complete and incomplete forms; a distinction which will at once put the surgeon on his guard against a variety of errors. He should also recollect the practical tliyj-