274 MAMMA, DISEASES OF topical measure is to be resorted to. The rule is on no account to disturb the eschar. I have found this treatment most successful in tubercular lupus, and where different remedial means had failed in checking the disease. Sulphate of zinc has been also resorted to as a remedy in lupus. For this purpose, the dried salt should be finely levigated ; a caustic paste may be made by incorporating an ounce of the powder with a drachm of glycerine ; and a caustic ointment, by thoroughly mixing the same quantity of the powder with four drachms of lard. (^Dispensatory of United States of America, 1865.) Mr. Bransby Cooper extols a paste made with ten grains of oxalic acid, two grains of powdered opium, and a sufficient quantity of wheaten flour. This is to be applied in the same manner as the chloride of zinc ; and he states, that he has found it more effectual. The escharotic action of the above compound was first mentioned to him by Mr. Camps, of Fenny Stratford {Principles and Practices of Surgery, p. 391). I tried it with one patient, who greatly complained of the pam which MM.'Recaniier, Jules Clcqnet, and Velpeau recommend for the cure of lupus the acid nitrate of mercury, made by dissolving a drachm of the nitrate of mercury in an ounce of nitric acid. The ulcerated surface is to be touched with it by means of a dossil of lint, and some scrapings of lint, moistened with the same solution, are then to be laid on the part. This has been found an excel- lent application for the destruction of the soft flabby edges of unhealthy, imperfectly formed ClCcltriC63* Although internal remedies are here of minor importance, still the permanence of cure will be confirmed by a judicious application of the hygienic and therapeutic precepts formerly laid down. A milk and farinaceous diet by rendering the blood less stimulating exerts a decided influence upon the state of the cutaneous capillaries. This is exem- plified by the fact, that nothing tends more than such a diet to subdue that capillary congestion, that turgescence of tlie follicles, and also to dimi- nish that morbid secretion of the skm which may accompany or follow this affection. There is one symptom which the surgeon is frequently called upon to treat, as concomitant or sequela to the ulcer, namely, a sense of tenderness or rawness of the pituitary membrane, depending on chronic inflammation. It is allayed by pro- tectina the part against external impressions, and especially that of cold by plugging the nostrils with scraped lint, or the fleecy down of finely carded cotton-wool. Where the irritation has persisted for a period of years, and is attended with superficial ulceration or erosion of the mucous mem- brane, some astringent lotion ought to be thrown up once or twice every day. I have prescribed with advantage a liniment made by incorporating hlteeii grains of chloride of zinc with an ounce ot olive oW. The morbid surface is to be pencilled over with the liniment once a day ; in the course of a lew weeks, by pursuing this plaii, the membrane will be restored to a sound condition. Having now consideved in detail the two lead- ing varieties of lupus—namely, the superficial or enjlhematous, characterised by the ulcerous action spreading along the surface, and the deep eroding, of which the tendency is to destroy layer after layer, not sparing even bony texture in its insidious and destructive career—I shall in conclusion point attention to the so-called lupus with hypertrophy. This is a very rare form of the disease. Its pecu- liarity consists in the development of tubercles which never ulcerate, but are often attended with notable swelling of the part affected. Its exclusive locality is the face. The tubercles are prominent, flattened, of a fawn colour, united at the base, and sessile on a surface which, at first, is slightly bloated. The subjacent areolar tissue becomes the seat of a fulness which remains always indolent, but slowly increases in size, and may acquire a considerable bulk. In contemplating, says M. Cazenave, an extreme case of this nature, one may form a notion of the hideous deformity which it entails. The skin assumes a violet hue, passing into black. The eyes are hid amid the prominences resulting from the enormously swollen condition of the forehead and eyelids. The cheeks are expanded by an unsightly turgescence ; the lips thickened and eveited so as to represent two smooth, tense cushions, which give a most repul- sive aspect to the individual. Again, on the deformed surfaces are seen here and there fawn- coloured spots, sometimes slightly prominent, which are merely tubercles imbedded in the hypertrophied mass. These obviously penetrate deeply into the tissues, and determine a more or less abundant desquamation, showing that a process of destruction is going on. In some parts they are replaced by slightly depressed cicatrices. Ac- cording to Hons. Cazenave lupus with hypertrophy is always a tedious and obstinate malady, and consequently difficult of cure. It may generally be traced to a scrofulous taint ; and is developed during the first and second cliildhood, rarely in the adult subject. It may persist, however, till an advanced period of life. It is more common in women than in men, and among individuals who live in unhealthy localities, and are ill supplied with the necessaries of life. It is said to be occa- sionally hereditary. Preparations of iodine and of mercury have been recommended for the treatment of lupus with hypertrophy.]— Alexander Ure. [See Baieman's Sy7ir>psis of Cutaneous Diseases, ed. 3rd ; Raycr. Mai. de la Peau, t. i., Svo., Pans, 1826; Houghton, in Cyclop, of Practical Medicine; Jacob, in Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. ; Dupuytren, in Legons Orales de Cltmque aiir., t, iv p 471 ; Neli<jan,Pract. Treatise on Diseases of the Skin, D.iblin, 1852; Devergie, M Pratique dcs Maladies de la PeaK, Pans 18o4 , nebra. Atlas der Hautkranhhesten, Lief, L Lupus, Wien 1856 ; Caxem,ve,Lcfous surles Maladiesdela Peau.; Paris, 1856 ; Gibert^ j-'^^J Maludic-^ de la Peau, t. i.. Paris, 1860 ; A. Lre. Diseasesofihe Nose,in Holmes' Sys. Sur^ery.vol.ui.] LUXATION. (See Dislocation.) MAMMA, DISEASES OF. Various cause conibme to r'ender the female breast i^ecu larly liable to disease. Its situation exposes it to ire Tnt variations of temperature, to PJ ; finement or pressure from the « f,,^'^,,^^'^ dental injuries ^ -^^^P;;^? ' ?„ 'e^ bj