VISION. 1001 (= persistent vision). See Duration of Relinal Impressions. 14. "That the images of objects just per- ceived, vanish and return, the eyes being Icepl closed " (= intermittent vision). See Duration of Retinal Impressions. 15. " That after looking, especially at small objects for some time, they become misty, but that 01) closing the eyes for a moment, or rubbing them, the object can again be seen distinctly for a short time (= weak sigiit, impaired vision, &c.) See Asl/ienopia and Circles of Diffusion. (B) Lesions of the power of recognising colour. The patient states :— 1. " That all objects appear of the same colour ( = coloured vision—chromopsia). This symp- tom is observed occasionally in persons who have been operated upon for cataract, and in those' suffering from changes of colour of the transparent media, as may occur, e.g., during jaundice. 2. " That objects—the flame of a candle, &c. —seem surrounded by rainbow colours." (See Glaucoma, Conjunctiva, and Cornea.) 3. " That colours cannot be perceived at all, or that only some can be recognised, or that colours are mistaken " ( = colour-blindness). See Per- ception of Colours. (C) Lesions as regards iJie sensibility to light. The patient states :— 1. " That the light dazzles the eyes." (See Photophobia, or intolerance of light, which is observed congenitally in albinos and in persons without irides.) The usual causes of this condi- tion are corneal opacities and other superficial changes of the cornea. It is also observed during hj'perasmia of the optic nerve, and in many cases of myopia and in commencing glaucoma. 2. " That much time is required before he can see when coming from a light into a dark room." (See Nyctalopia.) 3. " That the ordinary amount of light is no more sufficient to see small objects." (See Pres- BvopiA.) The functions of the retina and brain' should be examined. 4. " That on closing the eyes, or in the dark, he sees flashes of light, fiery circles, falling stars, &c.'' ( = photopsia phosphenes). See Myopia and Morlrid Changes of the Optic Nerve and Relina. The diagnosis and treatment of the anomalies of vision are most facilitated by ascertaining in succession the functions of the parts necessary for vision. These are: — 1. The light-refracting portions of the eye (com- prising the cornea, the aqueous humour, the crys- talline lens, the vitreous substance), together with the relina (the screen upon which an inverted image of an object is to be formed), as far as regards its distance from the nodal point, and with it the shape of the eyeball. Anomalies of the curvature of one or several of these structures give rise to impairment of vision through dis- turbing the refraction. To this group belong myopia, hypermetropia, and astigmatism, &c. 2. The media of the eye, i.e. the parts which in health are transparent wlien viewed with the un- aided eye, excepting the retina and the optic disc. The kind of disturbance of vision caused through impaired transparency of the media is described under Cornea, Oi-acitie.s op. Pupil, Closure OK, Cataract, &c. Tiie light, instead of reaching the retina iu the usual way, is dilluscd over it, and objects rfppear mist)', and the contrast between light and shade is diminished. 3. The parts concerned directly or indirectly in the accommodation of the eye. These are the crystalline lens, the ciliary muscle, the parts immediately adjoining these, and tlie external muscles of the eye. The number of persons whose vision is disturbed through anomalies in these parts is very great. The anomalies of refraction often make themselves felt by dis- turbances of the accommodation. Most cases of what by some is termed painful vision belong to this group. Senile changes affecting the contrac- tility of the iris and ciliary muscle, and the elas- ticity and consistence of the crystalline lens, are a fertile source of derangements of vision. . 4. The retina, optic disc, and the tunics adjoin- ing them. 6. The brain and those other parts of the nervous system which are essential to vision. The impairment of vision through lesions of the parts mentioned under 4 and S, vvhether the lesion has originated in the part, or the latter has become impaired secondarilj', is termed amblyopia (a.p.0\vs = obtuse, and io^ = eye), as long as there is perception of light ; amaurosis {a/xaupds = blind), if the vision is entirely destroyed. Previously to ascertaining the state of the parts just mentioned, we must not neglect examining the appendages of the eyeball, the eyelids, the conjunctiva, the lacrymal apparatus, since but slightly perceptible changes of these parts may give rise to changes of vision which much distress the patient—e.g. the mucus of slight catarrhal ophthalmia may give rise to muscse or to chromopsia. Impairment or destruction of the functions of certain portions of the retina or of the optic nerve- fibres often give rise to anomalies of vision, which in themselves are characteristic of the morbid changes of which they are symptoms. The following are some of the forms of amau- rosis and amblyopia frequently observed:— Amblyopia, or amaurosis of circumscribed por- tions of the retina. A circumscribed amblyopic or amaurotic portion of the retina is termed a ' scotoma.' It gives rise to interruption of the field of vision. 1. Scotoma in the region of the yellow spot— central scotoma, central interruption of the field of vision, impairment of direct vision. A scotoma in this region has been observed after looking into strong light or after working too much at the microscope. It may appear in both eyes if both are used in succession. In the eye thus used a yellowish mist, whose place, if the work be continued, becomes occupied by a deep brown one, is noticed. Objects placed opposite this region can no more be perceived. Hours may elapse before the mist has cleared away and vision has become normal again. The boundary of the impaired portion of retina is ill-defined, while the function of the more peri- pheral parts may continue undisturbed. With the ophthalmoscope an increased greyish haze sur- nmnding the reddish centre of the yellow spot is observed. From this kind of scotomii, whicii nuiy recur whenever cause is given, wo distinguish tho one which appears more gradually, without any apparent cause, often in both eyes, and remains permanently. On ophthalmoscopic examination we may find