71S TETANUS, The operation would not answer so well in acute tetanus, if the disease were advanced, and the muscles to be divided were strongly contracted and rigid, as I observed at the siege of Acre, in a soldier, who was seized with tetanus, in conse- quence of a gunshot wound of the left elbow." {Mem. do Cliir. Militaire, t. i. p. 262.) Larrey did, indeed, try amputation in a few in- stances of acute tetanus. In the case last cited, the symptoms were already considerably ad- vanced when the experiment of amputating the arm was made; yet, says he, the operation was followed by considerable ease. The symptoms recurred, however, a few hours afterwards, and proved fatal on the third day. In another ex- ample, this gentleman repeated the experiment, though acute tetanus had begun. The operation is described as having stopped all the symptoms, as it were by enchantment; the patient even passed twelve hours in perfect ease; but, being exposed to the damp cold air, the disorder returned, and carried him off. (See Alan, de Cliir. Militaire, t. i. p. 263—269.) In a case of acute tetanus, where Mr. Liston amputated the wounded hand, the opisthotonos subsided the following day; yet the case ended fatally, and it is a question whe- ther the degree of temporary benefit which was obtained, did not proceed from other remedies, tried in conjunction with the operation. (See Ed. Med. and Stirg. Journ., No. Ixxix. p. 293.) Larrey records some cases in favour of ampu- tation at tlie commencement of tetanus from wounds, and especially for the relief of the disease in the chronic form. He has likewise adduced an interesting example, in which speedy relief and a cure followed, cutting olF all communication be- tween the nerves of the wounded part and the sen- sorium by a suitable incision. In this place it may be right to remind the reader that although Baron Larrey once or twice amputated when acute tetanus had somewhat ad- vanced, he does not advise the practice; and he expressly restricts his sanction of amputation to chronic or quite incipient cases of tetanus, and to a few instances in which the gingly moid joints are fractured, accidents which, independently of te- tanus, would generally require the operation, (See Mtm. de Cliir. Mil.., t. iii.) The report of Sir Jaraes JMcGrigor fully confirms the statement of Larrey ; namely, that free incisions are of little avail in the acute and fully formed disease, and that amputation fails in the same kind of case. After the battle of Toulouse, this operation was extensively tried, but without success. The French are also said to have lost an immense num- ber of soldiers from tetanus after the battle of Dresden, when Sir James infers, that the practice of amputation must have been fairly tried. (See Med. Chir. Trans., vol. vi. p. 456.) We have seen, however, that according to the precepts of Larrey, the French surgeons would only have performed the operation in chronic cases, which are not the most frequent, or if in other instances, only on the ■very first accession of the symptoms. But, upon the wliole, notwithstanding the partial degree of success attending Larrey's experiments, I have no nesitation in declaring my belief, that amputation 01 tlie injured part in chronic tetanus will never "^.^tcnsively adopted. The uncertain efficacy "8 severe measure, and the frequent possibility 01 ciirnig this form of the complaint by milder plans, will for ever constitute insuperable argu- ments against the practice. Sir Astley Cooper's statements tend to confirm the opinion which I have always given upon the subject. In one case of tetanus, from a compoimd fracture just above the ankle, the operation seemed to precipitate the fatal event. In another case the finger was amputated without any good; and a third case is referred to, in which the operation also failed in saving the patient's life. In chronic tetanus, amputation is regarded by Sir A. Cooper as unjustifiable, as the patient often recovers with- out this proceeding. The medicine which has appeared to this gentleman most useful in such cases is calomel, joined with opium. {Surgical Essays, part ii. p. 190.) Mr. Abernethy also disapproves of amputating any material part of the body, with the view of relieving tetanus, unless the injury require the operation on other grounds: he acknowledges, however, that he has seen tetanus mitigated by the practice, though the patients ultimately fell victims to the disease. On the subject of making incisions for the pur- pose of separating the nerves of the wounded part from the sensorium, Larrey states, that they should be practised before inflammation has come on; for if this has made progress, they would be use- less and even dangerous. They should compre- hend, as much as possible, all the nervous filaments and membranous parts; but he con- demns all incisions into joints, as exasperating the symptoms of tetanus, instances of which he has witnessed. The practice of nearly surrounding the wound by a deep incision has been practised in University College Hospital, and most of the cases have been in favour of the plan. Baron Lar- rey has recorded some convincing proofs of the be- nefit sometimes arising from completely dividing the trunk of the injured nerve. In one instance, te- tanic symptoms followed an injury of the supraor- bitary nerve, but were immediately stopped by di- viding some of the fibres of the occipito-frontalis, and the nerves and vessels, down to the bone. The case of the midshipman who trod upon a rusty nail, which penetrated the left foot, between the metatarsal bones of the great toe and the ad- joining one, is strongly in favour of this practice. As I have already mentioned, the patient kept watch on deck after the accident, and was exposed to the cold damp nocturnal air. At eight o'clock on the following morning locked jaw had com- menced. Under the administration of opium, the disease gained ground. Dr. Murray, therefore, cut down to and divided the posterior tibial nerve, about an inch behind the malleolus internus. Although the patient had not been able to speak before the operation, he immediately opened his mouth with an exclamation, and expressed him- self already much relieved. The original wound was then dilated, and covered with a poultice containing laudanum. The case terminated in the patient's recovery. {See Lojidon 3fed. Ga:z., 1832-33, p. 623.) 'Another case, in which the division of the neighbouring nerve was beneficial, may be found in the Btibl. Joiinial of Mediwl Science, vol. v. p. 311, extracted from the CtdciiUa Med. and Physical Trans. On the principle of destroying the parts which are the seat of the local irritation, Larrey al?o frequently applied the actual and potential cautery