.WOUNDS. 1025 produce much-to tlie desired end. No dressings wliicli liiivebfeuiii use should everboiertlyiiigaliout, ;md when numbers ot" wiunided uieu are treated logetiier, even the materials provided fur I'uture dressings sliould nut be left exposed to the emana- tions of the wards, otherwise they will become cDntaniinated. The use of disinfectants and anti- septics should be encouraged, as they contribute much to tiie salubrity of the sick quarters. During convalescence, a change of apartment pre- vious to a change of residence is often helpful to recovery, by the encouraging mental effect it has, and the complete change of atmosphere it ensures. Tiiat a warm equable temperature favours the heal- ing of wounds has been well illustrated in sojue ciunitries where such a climate exists, and where the evils of rapid decomposition, inseparable from such climates, have been carefully guarded against. A cold, damp, changeable climate is the worst of all for the recovery of wounded men, and is a prolilic source of dangerous complications. The food required by persons sulfering from wounds should be generous, and suited in quantity and quality to the natural inclinations of the patient. It should be mixed and regulated by tlie powers of appnipriation. During convales- cence from severe wounds accompanied by great W'aste and exhaustion, it is essential that the most snsuiining and easily assimilable food should be provided, but there is in many cases too creat a tendency among practitioners to overload the system during such a period, by forcing a diet on tlie patient which is much more concentrated and more abundant than his requirements demand, and often very considerably more than Ills digestive organs can make use of in the circumstances in which for the time he is placed, and thus great evil is done when only good is intended. Stimulants, too, are frequently ordered in lavish quantities, under the veil of "keeping up the system," when the extra call on the vital powers is but small. It is true, that in many cases we are compelled to administer the most nourishing food, and the largest amount of stimulants, to support the strength when unequal to the struggle in which it is engaged ; yet these cases should be carefully discriminated. The state of the pulse and tongue,, the expression of the patient, and the temperature of his surfrice, together with a due regard to the patient's tastes, habits, and sens.i- tioiis, and the condition of his Becretioiis, will be our best guides as to the management of the diet. Common sense and experience, together with ii full aptirecialion of the individuality of the patient, his htibits tuid his failings, will be a better guide to us than any theoretical or artificial scheme of aliment. Acidulated and refreshing drinks are alway tirateftil to those suffering from wounds, and these should be freely administered. Fresh fruit too, utiless contra-indicated, is much appreciated, and is usually highly useful in allaying thirst and fever, and aiding the alimentary secretions. Aa regards the use of drugs, the fewer admin- istered the better. The indications for their use should be clear and manifest before they are ordered. It 1« requisite to health, and so to ^ood 1-ecovery froiii accident, that the secretions siiould be maintained In proper and due activity, and to this end it may be necessary in the progress of such surgical iiijitries as are now under cmisideiit- tiuii that drugs be employed, but aa a riilL- ihi; fewer . lOL. II, niedicaments administered the better. If-there has iieen much blood lost, there will likely be some con- stipation for a time, but this will disappear, or may be relieved by a lavement, which, when it can be used, is in general much to be preferred, in sur- gical cases, to the use of purgatives. There are, of course, many cases in which lavements will prove insufficient to meet the requirements of the case, but nmch can, in all cases, be done by the proper regulation of the diet, to ensure a sufiicient and regular alvine evacuation. Salines will be needed if there is fever, but tonic.«, diuretics, &c., should be held in reserve for employment wlien there is a clear call for them. Opium or bromide of potassiiun, and hydrate of chloral, are ex- tremely sei'viceable in the progress of most wounds for allaying pain and nervous agitation, or obtaijiing sleep. Opium and arnica are given by some surgeons of high reputation, as prophylactics ngainst surgical fever and purulent absorption, but the evidence in their favour 'as agents for that purpose is defective. It is almost needless to add, that the use of emetics and general blood-letting, as an initial treatment of wounds, has disappeared from modern surgical practice. TIte, Local Traalmtut of Wounds.—It is not a little remarkable that the simple dressings and early adhesions aimed at in the modern treatment of wounds should have been practised in the earliest epochs of surgical history, though long lost sight of afterwards. Hippocrates, Celsus, Galen, and .litius all advocated early union, and Galen, more especially, describes healing by " first inten- tion." Such wise practice was, however, unfor- tunately afterwards widely departed from, and the very opposite plan pursued. Every means was adopted calculated to delay and oppose union, so that the wound might be "purged" from certain supposed evil elements, which, if not expelled, Would sooner or later bring about harm. Every ellbrt made by Nature to repair the breach was thwarted, and that often by means whose ingen- uity was undoubted. The surgeon appeared to exercise his skill and dexterity, not in devising and carrying out measures calculated to aid Nature's beneficeitt labours, but, on the contrary, to inter- fere and neutralise them as much as lay in his powel-. Long without adequate means of com- manding hsemorrhage, the ancients could not in many cases effect the early closure of wounds, and not understiinding aright the phenomena of early- adhesion, they feared to accomplish it, in dread of the harm which might follow. Till the ligature was appreciated and used, the different methods employed to arrest bleeding from wounded arteries were so ingeniously destructive of all possible hopes of early union, that till these were aban- doned, it was clearly impossible to obtain aught but the most tardy and unsatisfactory repair. So long as the actual cautery was in daily use to restraiii the ever-recurring haamorrhage—while the soft parts were divided with dread by means of red-hot knives or instruments impregnated witli powerful acids—so long as "buttons " of vitriol were tied over bleeding vessels, or the most powerful iistriiigents and mechaniciil appliancea used as styptics, or coamilants stuffed into bleeding wounds—It was liopeless to expect eaily union. Wide-spread destruction, prolonged suppurations, delayed repair, and grievolis deformities Were the Iiccc3?rtry conseqiieiiees. hXeii lifter I'aii' had