927 VENEREAL DISEASE. proof of it in the anonymous tract, " Sur la Non- existence de la Maladie vitti'ri'-Ji7ie," and in the writings of Mr. Carniichnel, Dr. Fergusson, Mr. Rose, Dr. Kennen, Dr. Thomson, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Bacot, and other practitioners. Perilhe, as I have already noticed, distinctly admitted the fre- quency of spontaneous cures, and so does Delpech. " Observation seems to prove (says he) that there are some individuals in whom the lymphatic sys- tem appears to be endued with the fortunate pro- perty of extinguishing the syphilitic principle, so that merely primary symptoms occur." {C/iir. Cliniqite, t. i. p. 341.) In short, if there be such a sceptic now living in this country, let him peruse the returns made by the surgeons of the whole British army, documents which will be noticed in the sequel of this article ; let him consider the evidence of the surgeons of other countries, espe- cially that of Culletier, who used annually to de- monstrate to his class of pupils the cure of venereal ulcers without mercury ; and the testimony and practice of the German surgeons, who were attached, during the war, to regiments of their countrymen in the British service. The fact is therefore indisputable that the venereal disease, in all its ordinar}' and diversified forms, is capable of a spontaneous cure, and consequently that the question whether the disease is syphilitic or not, can never be determined by the circumstance of the complaint yielding, and being permanently cured without the aid of mercury. Yet, as Mr. Rose has observed, the supposition that syphilis did not admit of a natural cure, and that mercury was the only remedy that had the po wer of de- stroying its virus, was of late so much relied upon, that where a disease had been cured without the use of that medicine, and did not afterwards re- turn, such fact alone, whatever might have been the symptoms, was regarded as sufficient proof that it was not a case of syphilis. And, as the same writer judiciouslj' remarks, the refutation of these notions is of considerable importance, "not so much in reference to the treatment of syphilis, under common circumstances, for the strikingly good effects of mercury will probably not render it advisable in general to give up the use of that re- medy, but from the change it will produce in our views of the diagnosis of the disease. The distinc- tion, which has engaged such a share of attention of late years, and which is evidently so important between syphilis and syphiloid diseases, has been made to depend so much on the former admitting of no cure, except by mercury, that, if this principle should be found to be erroneous, the difficulties which have attended it will in a great measure be explained." {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 350, 351.) That it is erroneous, will appear more clearly when the treatment of syphilis falls under consideration. Excluding from present attention works of an- cient date, it is curious to find how very nearly several writers, within the last thirty or forty years, arrived at the same point to which modern investigations have led. Thus, Mr. B. Bell ob- serves that "a chancre might frequently be cured with external applications alone, and as we know from experience that the virus is not always ab- sorbed, tlie cure would in a few instances prove per- manent ; but, as we can never with certainty know whether this would happen or not, while, in a great proportion of cases, there would be rea- son to think that absorption would taite place, we onght not in any case to trust to it." {On Gonor- rha:a Virulenta, &c. vol. ii. ed. 2, p. 325, 8vo. Edin. 1797.) And, in some reflections upon a case of doubtful nature. Dr. Clutterbuck long ago remarked : " Supposing even that the diseased appearances had after a time got well of them- selves, J should deem even this no absolute proof of their not being of a venereal nature. 1 have seen cases which induce me to believe, that the vene- real disease, in some of its stages, and in certain circumstances, may gel well without mercury or any other remedy. But this is contrary to the doctrine of Mr. Hunter, who supposed that venereal ac- tions go on increasing, without any tendency to wear themselves out. That lues venerea is much modified by climate and other circumstances, is generally allowed; that it has been cured by other means than mercury, we have also very sufficient evidence in the older writers on the subject: not to mention the late successful trials with acids, and other substances. Many of the appearances mi the skin go off spontaneously. When purple spots appear on the skin (Mr. Hunter observes, p. 319), giving it a mottled appearance in this disease, maiiy of the spots disappear, whilst others continue and increase." {H. Clidterbuck, On some Opinions of John Hunter, p. 27, 8vo. Lond. 1799.) If Dr. Clutterbuck had advanced one step further, and declared that the venereal disease might be cured without mercury, or any other remedy, in all, or nearly all, its forms, and not merely in some of them, he would actually have anticipated the most important fact, established chiefly by the merito- rious labours of the army surgeons, whose oppor- tunities of going through the investigation were better, on several accounts, than those of private practitioners, who generally soon lose sight of their patients, and never have them sufliciently under their control and observation to render a full perse- verance in any method a matter of certaintv. At all events, Dr. Clutterbuck may justly claim the merit of having distinctly marked the fact, that the circumstance of a disease giving way, and being cured without mercury, is no proof that tlie case is not venereal. One of the most ingenious theories ever de- vised for explaining all the perplexities and irregu- larities of syphilis, is unquestionably that of the late Mr. Hunter ; for it accommodated itself almost to everything, and every believer in it fancied he could account satisfactorily for many puzzling occurrences, which admitted of no good explanation on other principles. Mr. Hunter in- culcated, that the parts contaminated by the ab- sorption of the venereal poison do not immediately begin to be palpably diseased, but only acquire a disposition to^ take on the venereal action. He fur- ther believed, that when this disposition was once formed in a part, it necessarily changed into action, or manifest disease, at some future period. That mercury can cure the disease when positively formed, but not the disposition to it. That al- though mercury cannot destroy the disposition already contracted, yet that it can prevent it from being formed at all. That the disposition never becomes the real disease, or, in Mr. Hunter's language, goes into action during the use of mer- cury. That the action having once taken place always increases; never wearing itself out. That