VENEREAL DISEASE. 025 have obliged even Huntel'. himself, had he been alive, to confess the mistaken views which he sometimes took of the nature of the venereal disease. In opposition to Mr. Carmichael's theory, Mr. Bacot brings forward several arguments :—" Mr. Carmichael (he says) gives us an example of a phagedsenio sore, followed by those appearances which should attach to the raised ulcer; he admits that the papular and pustular diseases are some- times mixed; in some of his phagedsenic cases, we find that that character has been given to the ulcer by the action of mercury; in still more of them, the original character of the sore is not preserved throughout, so that the form of second.ary sym- ptoms, which ought to succeed to the classification, is very difficult to divine; in short, he frequently departs frum his own arrangement. His descrip- tion of a phagedffiuic ulcer includes, unless I am much mistaken, two very distinct kinds of sore; and, in more than one instance, a phagedaenic sur- face and elevated edges are united in the same description of ulcer. Nay, more, he tells us, that occasional difficulty is encountered in distinguish- ing the phagedaenic ulcer from the other primary ulcers. It displays, however, its character of phagedsena so early, that, he thinks, it cannot ofcen be confounded with an ulcer that becomes phagedaenic from irritation ; and, he adds, that neglect, local irritation, and even constitutional irritability, will cause any ulcer to become phage- daenic. What, then, should prevent me from as- suming, that an early irritation may produce an early change in the character of the sore ? And then what becomes of the phagedsenic ulcer and its appropriate, consecutive, constitutional sym- ptoms ?" (J. Bacot, in Meit. Gazette, vol. ii. p. 422.) Notwithstanding this reasoning, how- ever, if it were proved that the primary phagedaenic ulcer, not made so by irritation, neglect, &c., always, or even generally, was followed by one train of secondary symptoms, and not by another, Mr. Carmichael's researches would have materially contributed to enlighten this obscure subject. As I do not believe that sores, which are originally phagedaenic, necessarily depend upon any one pe- culiar virus, of course much difficulty presents itself to my mind in the adoption of this part of Mr. Carmichael's views. As this part of the inquiry into the nature of the venereal disease is one of the most interesting, I will here notice the objections of Mr. Wallace to the hypothesis of a plurality of venereal poisons, who reduced to the following heads all the argu- ments used in support of it. 1. Some of the diseases which result from ve- nereal intercourse, require mercury for their cure or removal, while others are curable without this remedy. Therefore, the former class of diseases must be of a totally different species from the latter, and produced by distinct poisons. 2. Historical evidence demonstrates, that certain forms of venereal disease existed from the earliest ages, and that to these was added, after the dis- covery of America, a new and peculiar disease. 3. Certain diseases, nearly allied in their ge- neral characters to each other, and to venereal diseases, have been observed in Canada, Scotland, and the West Indies, &c.j yet they are considered the product of different morbid poisons; and as these diseases do not differ more widely from one another than the varieties of venereal diseaset differ from each other, we have the same reason for supposing that the varieties of venereal disease result from poisons specifically distinct, as we have for supposing that the diseases in question arise from different poisons. 4. The symptoms of all diseases which are caused by morbid poisons, are regulated by laws so fixed or determined, that they .are always uni- form in their appeariince and progress; but the diseases which result from venereal intercourse, if considered as the consequence of one morbid poison, exhibit the most dissimilar characters, and must, therefore, be owing to the action of dissimilar poisons. 5. The symptoms of venereal diseases, though numerous and varied, form certain determinate groups, in which we observe peculiar forms of primary symptoms, followed by corresponding forms of constitutional disease ; and the primary and constitutional symptoms of each group re- semble one another in their general character or in their degrees of mildness and severity; while the primary and secondary symptoms of any one group are, in their origin, as well as in their progress, altogether different from the correspond- ing symptoms of the other groups ; and these circumstances cannot be explained except by the supposition, that each group is produced by its own peculiar specific cause. Mr. Wallace examines each of these arguments separately. 1. The results of modern experience seem to him evidently to refute the first argument, by de- monstrating that every form of venereal disease with which we are acquainted, has been cured without mercury: hence, says he, we have no proof that there are two classes of venereal disease distinguish- able from each other by the one requiring mercury for its cure, while the other is curable without this remed)-. 2. "Let it be admitted (observes Mr. Wallace, as if demonstrated by satisfactory evidence) that many forms of venereal diseases have existed from the earliest ages, and that a new disease was in- troduced from America by the followers of Co- lumbus, what proof have we that this new disease at present exists ? Those (says he) who support this doctrine, that a new disease was introduced into Europe, after the discovery of America, are compelled to admit that it is impossible to distin- guish the symptoms of this new or real syphilitic disease, as they denominate it, from those of other forms of the venereal disease; and they affirm that a line of distinction can be drawn between them only by the influence which mercury exercises over their progress. Thus, Mr. Abernethy says that 'the fictitious disease in appearance so ex- actly resembles syphilis, that no observation, how- ever acute, seems to be capable of deciding on its nature.' {On Dis. resembling Syphilis, p. 4j.) And at p. 54 he admits, that all his reasoning is founded ' upon the presumption that diseases tvhich spontaneously get u-ell, are not syphilitic.''" "It is true (adds Mr. Wallace) that Mr. Car- michael has attempted a diagnosis of these diseases foimded upon their symptoms; but he has not suc- ceeded. We must therefore conclude, that, as we know of no disease incurable without mercury, we cannot admit tlnit the disease, imagined to have been introduced into Europe, by tho followers of Columbus, at present exists."