according to Mr. Ti. Smith, there cnn be no doubt of the fact. Dr. W. 11. Gilby, of Clifton, lie says, detected it decidedly in four instances. "A notice of it will be fonnd in Mr. Tilloch's Journ. for 1817, vol. xlix. p. 188, in the account of a curious calculus, given to me by Mr. G. M. Burroughs, of Clifton ; the nucleus of which is a CDuimon cinder, an inch and a half long and one broad. Since the publication of that paper (con- tinues Mr. Smith) Mr. H. Sully, of Wivelisconibe, sent nie three oddly-shaped calculi, which he re- moved from a lad, together with fifteen pea-sized oires previously voided by the urethra, which are entirely carbonate of lime, held together by animal mucus." (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. p. U.) Dr. Prout has also seen small calculi composed almost entirely of carbonate of lime. {On Gjavel,&c.f. 89. [Concretions of carbonate of lime are occa- sionally formed in the prostate; it is possible, therefore, that some of the calculi of this substance which have been found in the bladder may have been derived from this source.] URINARY CALCULI. 857 preparations of iron by Dr. Golding Bird, but the number of cases met with have not been suffici. iit to admit of definite conclusions, so that each case must be considered on its own merits, and in con- nection with such concomitant symptoms as may happen to be present. From the cases which have been recorded, the tendency to this deposit appear* to be hereditary in a remarkable degree.] The Fibrinous and other Psel'bo-Calculi. The Cystic Oxide Calculus is small and very rare. It was first described by Dr. WoUaston. (P/iil. Trans, for 1810.) In external appearance. It bears a greater resemblance to the triple phos- phate of magnesia than any other sort of cal- culus. However, it is more compact, and does not consist of distinct laniinas, but appears as one mass confusedly crystallised throughout its sub- stance. It has a yellowish semi-transparency and a peculiar glistening lustre. Under the blow- pipe, it gives a singularly fetid smell, quite different from that of lithic acid or the smell of prussic acid. In consequence of the readiness with which this species of calculus unites both with acids and alkalies, in common with other oxides, and the fact of its also containing oxygen (as is proved by the formation of carbonic acid by dis- tillation), Dr. WoUaston named it an oxide, and the term cystic was added from its having been originally found only in the bladder in two e.x- araples. Dr. Marcet, however, has subsequently met with no less than three instances of calculi formed of cystic oxide, all of which were un- questionably of renal origin. [Cystic oxide or cystine contains a large propor- tion, 26 per cent., of sulphur, derived probabh-, according to Dr. Golding Bird, from the sulphur extractive matter of the urine, and the result of abnormal changes in the albuminous and other tissues containing sulphur. Cystic oxide calculi, usually pale yellow wlien removed, become of a brown or dirty green colour by keeping. A deposit of cystine is occasionally met with in the urine. It always occurs in a crystalline form, the crystals, as seen by the microscope, being flat hexagonal plates, generally superposed in clusters. This sediment is abundant, and might be mistaken for the pale urate, or for the phosphatic deposit. It is distinguishable from the former by not dis- ■ appearing on warming the urine, and from the hitter by being insoluble in very dilute hydro- chloric or strong acetic acid. {Golding Bird Lnc. cit. p. 195.) •> ■> No very definite indications for the treatment of ■ this deposit can be given. The nutritive and dige:,tive functions must be regulated with care '■ Tonics will in most cases be required. The nitro- • muriatic was recommended by Dr. Prout, and the The chemical properties of a new calculus, men- tioned by Dr. Marcet, correspond to those of hbriue, and he therefore suggests the propriety ot distinguishing it by the term fibrinous. For a particular description of these new substance^ I must refer to this gentleman's essay. ' [Substances of this nature are rfegaided by Dr Golding Bird as consisting of dried inspissated albuminous matter exuded from an irri-ated kid- ney, and to be in no way analogous to calculi pro- perly so called. A Uro'Stealilh Calcuhts has been described by Heller, and specimens have been examined by Dr VV. D Moore, who has given a detailed descrip- tion of them in the DtAlin Quarterly Journal, vol 1- 1854, p. 473. Uro-stealith is a fatty or resinous substance of waxy consistence. Blood CuZcmZi.—Concretions of a dark rusty or nearly black colour, and of considerable hardness have been found in the bladder, and have been suni posed to be formed from blood coagula. In some of these, examined by Dr. Rees, forms resembling the remains of blood corpuscles were met with 1 Alternating Calculus.—hhhic strata frequentlvr alternate with layers of oxalate of lime, or with the phosphates. Sometimes also the mulberrv alternates with the phosphates, and, in a few in- stances, three, or even four, species of calculi occur m the same atone, disposed in distinct concentric laminzB. On the comparative frequency of these and other varieties of calculi. Dr. Prout's work contains valuable information. Compound Calcidi, xuith their Ingredients inti- mately jBio'ed—Under this title, Dr. Marcet com- prehends certain calculi which have no character istic feature by which they can be considered as distinctly belonging to any of the other classes He observes that they may sometimes be reco.^- nised by their more or less irregular figure, and their less determinate colour; by their being less distinctly, if at all, divisible into strata; and bv their often possessing a considerable hardness Bv chemical analysis confused results are obtained Jsee Essay on ike Chem. and Med. Hist, of Calcu lous Disorders, p. 90.) ^"<c«- Calculi 0/the Prostate Gland.—The composition of these calculi is said to have been first explained by Dr. WoUaston. (See Phil. Trans, for 1797 ) ihey all consist of phosphate of lime, the earth not being redundant, as in bones. Their size varies fVon, that of a pin's head to that of a hazel-nut J. heir form 18 more or less spheroidal, and they are of a yellowish brown colour. Consult T. Lol>f>, A Treatise on Dissolvents of thr- Stone 8vo. Lon,l. 1739. Stephen Uates, lix ,crime u Tom m7''°?,^J'-.S'e'^vens's .vie.liciu s"8vo! l.'Onfi. 1741. 2Morand, in Ml'm. de I'Aciid , p« Sciences, 1740 and 1711. J. Duttv, Nevv li\M,er mm n WmT fMedicine.!'8V0. L^i i T?! ' n. Whylt, An Essay on the Virtues of I iin„ vv ami Soap in tlie Curie of Stone, mt ^^ D Hartley, A View of the present Evidence for ami