PESSARY. 448 A pessary very largely used on the Continent and in England is the hysterophore of Zwanke. It consists of two wings, united by a joint, and con- nected each with a stem. To facilitate introduc- tion and extraction, the wings can be brought together. When this is done the stems diverge ; on bringing the stems together, the wings open, and stretch the fundus of the vagina. The instrument is light, does not interfere materially with the mo- bility of the uterus, and in many cases supports the uterus very effectually. Several modifications have been made, the principal being by Schilling and Breslau. Tlie third order. Velpeau, Amussat, and Ki- wisch contrived intra-uterine stems or pessaries, for the purpose of supporting the retroflexed uterus. The practice has been taken up by Dr. Simpson. His instrument consists of a stem, long as the cervico-uterine canal, which occupies the cavity of the uterus, and is attached to a disk upon which the cervix rests, the whole being kept in situ by a wire-frame which rests upon the mons-veneris. (See Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, 1848). M. Valleix thought to make the instrument safer by shortening the stem. But it is obvious that if the stem is so short as not to pass beyond the os internum, it must fail in supporting the bent body of the uterus. And herein lies the practical difficulty. If the stem is go long as to reach the fundus of the uterus, and the instrument is fixed by being connected with a rigid framework outside the pelvis, the natural mobility of the organ is prevented, the uterus is actually impaled, and serious consequences have been reported. If the stem be reduced in length, the instrument becomes useless. The problem has been solved by Dr. H. G. Wright, who has con trived,. and successfully used, an intra-uterine pessary which requires no external support—which, maintaining itself in the uterine cavity, becomes as it were part of the uterus, and in no way impedes the natural movements of the organ. It consists of a thin, curved, spring-shaped instrument, somewhat like the letter Y. The expanded branches can be brought together so as to lie within a canula, which can be introduced like a uterine sound; the canula being withdrawn, the branches open in the uterus, lying in the sides of the cavity. It can be easily withdrawn by slipping the canula up over the branches, which brings them together again. (See Lancet, February 1866.) Similar instru- ments, but not equal in point of lightness and safety, have been devised by Dr. Graham Weir ni 1855, by Dr. Greenhalgh in 1864, and others. Dr. Simpson has also used galvanic intra-uterine pessaries. (See Edinhurgh Montlihj Journal of Medical Science, 1854). These have stems com- posed of zinc and copper. They are used to stimulate the growth of the organ when it is im- perfectly developed, and to excite menstruation m amenorrliooa. The fourth order, or the lever-pessaries, have been principally devised by Dr. Hodge {On Dis- eases pecidiar to Womcji, Philadelphia, I860). His instrument is varied in form .and size to suit different cases. It consists of a bar hent in the form of a horseshoe. The arch is fitted into the cul-de-sac of the vagina behind the cervix uteri, whilst the horns find a poini d'ajypui against the anterior wall of the vagina. The arch, rising, lifts up the retrovertcd body of the uterus. Another common form is the closed lever ; this is a ring compressed so as to form an ellipsis, and then curved like the letter S. The curvature is modified, according to the exigency of the case. Dr. Hodge applies the lever-pessary to relieve almost every kind of uterine disease. It does not impede sexual intercourse. It is now largely used in England as well as in America. Dr. Graily Hewitt has contrived a form of lever-pessary specially adapted to relieve anteversion. (See Obste- trical Traiisactions, 1867.) Pessaries of the fifth order are adapted to relieve or cure various diseases of the uterus and certain conditions of the vagina. Vaginismus, with or without inflammation of the mucous membrane of the vagina, atresia, or unnatural coarctation, all rendering sexual intercourse painful or impossible, may in many cases be cured by wearing a cylin- droid elastic pessary, which is introduced flaccid and then inflated. A very useful form has been made for the writer by Weiss. It acts by keeping the inflamed surfaces apart, giving the structures "rest," and gradually subduing spasmodic mus- cular irritability. It induces tolerance of function, and thus cures a large class of cases of sterility. Before introducing pessaries it is generally de- sirable to subdue any existing acute inflammation of the cervix uteri or vagina, and it is especially im- portant to ascertain the extent of mobility of the uterus upwards. For example, the uterus may be driven downwards by an abdominal tumor, by enlargement (as from fibroid growths) of its own body, or it may be bound down at the fundus or sides by peritoneal adhesions. In any one of such cases, injiu'y might be done by the attempt to introduce a pessary. The pro- lapsed uterus should therefore first be carried up to its full normal site by the finger, and its re- lations well ascertained. Before introducing a pessary, it is well to empty the rectum and blad- der. The mode of introduction must depend upon the form of the pessary. The rule, however, of observing the axes of the pelvis, and the curve of Carus, must always be borne in mind. The labia should be held apart by two fingers, and the instru- ment insinuated between them—at first backvyards towards the hollow of the sacrum, and gaining room for the entrance through the vulva by pressing upon the distensible perineeum, avoiding the pubes. The patient may be either on the back or'left side. Occasional consequences of wearing pessaries deserve consideration. Almost all at first excite increased mucous discharges, a subacute catarrh, of the vagina. Those in the construction of which tlie natural mobility of the uterus is not regarded, may cause chafing, inflammation, erosion, and htemorrhage of the cervix. Those which distend the vagina greatly, and press upon the bladder and rectum, occasion great distress by impeding the action of these organs. When a pessary has been introduced, women are apt to think nothing more is required, and very serious consequences have resulted from neglect. Every person wearing a pessary should continue under medical observation. She should present herself for examination at least once a month. It may be useful to alter the form of the instrument, or necessary to remove it altogether. It is doubt- ful whether any pessary ought to be worn for any length of time without frequent removal, m order to wash out the vagina, and to observe the condition