658 SURGERY. nected with hi3 personal merit. While Mareschal,' La Peyronie, and La Martinlere, assured l\im ol tlie royal favour, Quesnay, Moiaud, and Louis, who corrected his writings, made hira spealc a lanTua>,'e which does honour to tluit famous collec- tion to"which he contributed his observations (see Mimain-s et Pruvde aflame R»yah dc C/wnir- ci- 10 vols, in 4to.). and in which, if some theo- retical explanations be put out of cous.derat.on nothinT has lost its value by age. J. h. Petit was alsa life author of Traiie des Maladies Chiruryi- cales el des Operations qui lew conmenmnl. (o!«- vruge. poslhnme), a production that will always stand high in the estimation of the judicious sur- ^"^The history of this epoch, so glorious for the profession of surgery, is completely detailed in the Memoirs and Prizes of the Royal Academy oj Surgery; a work which is absolutely indispensa- ble and the various parts of which cannot be too often considered. In it are preserved the labours of Mareschal, Quesnay, La Peyronie, Morand, Petit De la Martiuiere, Le Dran, Garengeot, i)e la Faye, Louis, Verdier, Foubert, Hevin, Pibrac, Fabre, Le Cat, Bordenave, Sabatier, Puzos, Le- yret, and several otiier practitioners ; who, though less' famous, contributed by their exertions and knowledge to form this useful body of surgical facts. Many of the preceding s.irgeons also distinguished themselves by other productions ; which, however, I shall not here enumerate, as they are quoted m many other parts of this work. To tiie foregoing list of eminent French sur- geons must be added the names of La Motte, Maitre-Jean, Goulard, Daviel, Ravaton, Mejean, Ponteau, David, and Frere Cosme. While surgery was thus advancing in France, other nations were not neglectful of it. At this period flourished in Great Britain, C.White, Che- selden, the two Monros. Sharp, Cowper, Warner, Alanson, Bromfield, Pott, Kirkland, Hawkins, Sniellie, and the two Hunters. But, of all these eminent men, none contributed more powerfully than Percival Pott to the im- provement of the practice of surgery in England. His life, indeed, forms a sort of epoch in the history of the profession. Before his inculcations and ex- ample had produced a desirable change, the maxim of " dolor medicina doloris," as we learn from Sir James Earle, remained unrefuted. The severe treatment of the old school, in the operative part and in the applications, continued in force. The first principles of surgery, the natural process and powers of healing, were either not understood, or not attended to; painful and escharotic dressings • were continually employed; and the actual cautery was in such frequent use, that at the times when the surgeons visited the hospitals, it was regularly heated, and prepared as a part of the necessary apparatus. Where shall we find more sensible, or more truly practical observations on the treat- ment of abscesses, than in Pott's excellent treatise on tlie fistula in ano? Where shall we meet with better remarks on the local treatment of gangren- ous parts, than in his valuable tract on the mor- tihcalion of the toes and feet? What author abounds with so many just observations on the injuries of the head, blended, it is true, with riillier too great a partiality to the trepan, the so frequent necessity for which is now less generally ncknowledged ? His description of inflammation and suppuration of the dura mater, and of the treatment, is matchless. The account which he has left us of the disease of the vertebrae, attended with paralvsis of the limbs, is perhaps his most original production. His celebrated essay on fractures was also very orii;i;ial, and has had in this country considerable influence over the treat- ment of these injuries; but there can now be no doubt, that the effects of position were exaggerated in this part of his writings, and that surgeons ought still to make every possible exertion to render their apparatus for broken bones more effectual. (See Fractures.) A more really valuable production of this eminent surgeon is his remarks on amputation. The necessity for that operation in certain cases is there convincingly detailed; and the most advantageous period for its performance clearly indicated. The urgency for its prompt execution, after particular injuries, he has indeed so perfectly explained, that the late inculcations on the subject by Larrey, and several other modern surgeons, appear to be in a great measure anticipated; the only difference being that Pott's remarks applied principally to compound fractures, while Larrey's refer to gunshot wounds. All these, however, are cases of accidental vio- lence; and, of course, should be treated upon the same general principles. A longer comment on the writings and improve- ments of^ Percival Pott would here be requisite to do him every degree of justice; but his name, advice, and opinions are so conspicuous throughout this volume, that I shall be excused for not saying anything more in the present place, than that he was in his time the best practical surgecm, the best lecturer, the best writer on surgery, the best operator, of which this large metropolis could boast. . J Another character of still greater genius and originality, though of inferior education, was the ever-memorable John Hunter, surgeon to bt. George's Hospital, who was at once eminent as a surgeon, an anatomist, a physiologist, a naturalist, and a philosopher. Indeed, he was the greatest man that ever adorned the professicm, either m ancient or modern times, without making any exception of Hippocrates, the reputed father ot physic; Pare, the pride of the French; or Harvey, Ihe still greater glory of England the mimorm discoverer of the circulation of the blood. It Pott materially improved many parts of the V^^f^'^ sureerv in England, and evinced himself to be IhSt skilfuf operator of his time, John Hunter was also not less importantly employed in extend- in. the boundaries of physiological knowledge, and in the investigation of human, and part^«Wy comparative, anatomy. The knowledge whi h he dedved from his favourite studies he constantly applied to tlie improvement of the art of surgeiy, and he omitted no opportunity of examinmg :;lid bodies, whereby he collected fticts which arc invaluable, as they tend to explain the leal causes of the symptoms of numerous diseases In the practice of surgery, ^vhenever operatmns proved iii.adequate to their intention, ^r. > ^ nhvays investigated with uncommon zeal the cm^es of ill success, and in this ^ay I'« J^'^^^^^^^^^^ fallacies as well r..^^^:^^^.'^^^^^ ^f^niS^^itanlh^perationsinuseJV. ?he radical cure of the hydrocele, and was enabled