EASES OF. 581 SKIN, DIS by a hair is a prominent feature of their appearance (I. pilaris). When developed under the influence of the sun's rays, as on the back of the hands, the eruption is termed I. Solaris. L. dispersus, is a scattered form of the eruption, the papulae being pale in colour, isolated, and remarkable for their pruritic tendencies, hence, 1. pruriginosus; this variety of the eruption corresponds with the prurigo mitis of Willan. L. circwnseripiits indicates the development of the eruption in circular patches, the whole surface of the area being occupied by pimples. L. strop/mloszis, the strophulus of Willan, is a papular eruption common to infants; the pim- ples are larger and softer than those of common lichen, and they present several degrees of redness, some being paler than the surrounding skin. The eruption is popularly known as the gum-rash or tooth-rash, and its varieties are as follows :—S. interlinctus consists of clusters of pimples, developed on patches of diffused redness and distributed on various parts of the body. S.conferhis indicates a confluence of patches, giving rise to a more severe form of local inflammation of the skin. S. volaticus is a transient and less severe form of eruption. The pimples of S. albidns are paler than the sur- rounding skin; and those of S. candidus, smooth and shining. L. urticatus is an eruption of large solitary pimples attended with considerable itching and commonly met with in children. The angry na- ture of the pimples, the rapidity of their course, their successive eruption, the intense pruritus, and the frequent evidence of muscular spasm, have sug- gested a comparison with urticaria, L. tropicus, or prickly heat, is the itching eruption induced by the high temperature of hot climates. L. planus is a papular eruption remarkable for the large size, flatness and glassy smoothness of the pimples, with- out much pruritus; it is described by Hebra under the name of lichen ruber, and presents two forms, an isolated and a confluent form; the latter throws off an abundance of small scales, and very closely resembles eczema squamosum in its dry or psoriasic stage. L. pilaris is a crop of papulaj arising from the hair follicles, each pimple being traversed by a hair. L. lividus differs from lichen simplex only in the venous colour of the pimples, and is commonly met with on the lower limbs. L. cir- cinalus represents the circular and annulate form of the eruption; it may occur as a single line of pimples or as a band of moderate breadth; the ring may be solitary (1. circinatus solitarius) and stationary; or the eruption may consist of numerous rings which spread rapidly by their circumference and become confusedly intermingled (1. circinatus serpiginosus). Sometimes the annulate character is lost and a ridge of red pimples ia all that re- mains (1. marginatus); or, several such ridges trace out serpentine lines (1. gyratus). Under the name of L. ayrius, Willan describes an eruption which presents the highest degree of severity that lichen can assume; it is a local affection, the pimples are aggregated into circular clusters of greater or less (xtent, they give rise to intense prickling and itching, there is a copious exudation of an ichorous lymph, and the surface is broken up into fissures and excoriations (lichen eczematosus). It is lichen agriiis, developed on the back of the hands, the wrists, and flexure of the arms, that has received the names of bricklayer's, grocer's, baker's and washerwoman's itch. The presence of discharge carries lichen agrius within the region of eczema or psora; while, in its thickened, dry, and squam- ous stage, it ia psoriasis. Impetigo is an eruption of minute superficial pustules on a patch of inflamed skin, and its va- rieties are two in number, I. figurata and sparsa. /. figurata is distinguished by the grouping of the pustules in clusters, while in /. sparsa they are dispersed separately and more or less extensively over the surface of the body. Sometimes the patches of I. figurata enlarge by the circumference, while the skin returns to its healthy state in the middle, forming rings of pustules; at other times the eruption pours out an excessive quantity of purulent discharge which hardens into a crust of remarkable thickness, /. scahida. Occasionally im- petigo is accompanied with considerable redness and inflammation of the skin, I. erythematica. Impetigo also presents peculiar features when it appears upon the head, /. capitis. It is the puru- lent secretion of impetigo that gives to one form of eczema its title to the name, eczema impeti- ginodes; and impetigo is combined with eczema in the production of melitagra and crusta lactea or porrigo larvalis. Impetigo may, very properly, be regarded as a pustular eczema ; or, as an eczema occurring in a pyogenic constitution. GuTTA ROSACEA, the rosy drop, is an eruption of the face occurring at the mid-period of life, and consisting of erythematous blotches, papulae, pustuls and tubercles; hence the distinction of g. r. erythematosa, punctata, papulosa, pustulosa, and tuberculosa. It is commonly associated with the eczematous diathesis, and is accompanied with more or less infiltration of the skin; its papular form and its development on the face have led to its consideration as an acne under the name of acne rosacea; but a more correct pathplogy distinguishes between the papules of acne arising from torpid function of the hair follicles and a simple disorder ol nutrition, and the inflammatory congestion of gutta rosacea. Scabies was once held to be the type of all affections of the skin accompanied with pruritus. Pruritus, says Riolanus, "est scabendi desiderium," or rather," est lancinatio cutis—quod scabendi cu- piditatem inducit;—inde scabies," But pruritus being a symptom common to most diseases of the skin, it became necessary to define scabies more exactly. Willan includes it in his order PustulfE, because pustules are occasionally found united with the eruption; but the greater number of authors regard it as a vesicular eruption. The vesicles are small and acuminated, and contain a colourless or opaline lymph; they are chiefly found between the fingers and in the flexures of the wrists; while a crop of lichenous pimples is dispersed more or less abundantly over the limbs and trunk of the bodj-. In fact, the dry papuIiE of lichen, the moist vesicles of eczema, and, sometimes, pustules, are intermingled in this disease, and are associated with excoriations made by the nails in the act of scratching. But there is one other character which especially dis- tinguishes scabies, namely, a minute animal, the acanis scabiei, which burrows in the cuticle, chiefly of the hand?, but also in other parts of the body, as the feet and podex of infants; and the axillaa, the penis, the podex, and the mamma; of adults. In true scabies, the acarus is the sole cause of tlio eruption; and if it be destroyed by the fric- tion of sulphur into the affected parts, the erup- tion, dispersed over the rest of the body, cen3C%