LITHOTOMY. 215 the stone, as advised by Sir A. Cooper, of course the extent to which it passes will be determined by the situation of the calculus. As soon as the gor- get has been introduced, some operators withdraw the staff, pass the left fore-finger along its cavity into the bladder, and then take out the gorget. The gorget should be withdrawn in the same line in which it entered, pressing it towards the right side in order to prevent its making a second wound. If, however, the operator should prefer passing the forceps into the bladder along the gorget, the latter instrument must be quite motionless, lest its sharp edge do mischief : and at all events, as soon as the forceps or finger is in the bladder, the cutting gor- get is to be withdrawn. Others, calculating on the division of the pro- state by the gorget being sufficient, withdraw it, preparatory to the introduction of the forceps. The gorget having been withdrawn, the staff is to be taken in the right hand, and the left fore- finger passed along it into the bladder. The staff is then to be withdrawn, and it is to be ascer- tained by the finger to what part of the bladder the forceps should be directed that they may im- mediately touch the stone. On withdrawing the finger, the forceps with their blades closed are to be passed slowly through the wound, and inclined upwards as they approach the bladder. Upon the foregoing plan, the staflF will bo the conductor of the finger into the bladder, and the finger the con- ductor of the forceps. The introduction of the finger is useful to ascertain the situation of the stone, and by separating the sides of the incision in the prostate, to facilitate the passage of the for- ceps. By allowing the staflF to remain in the bladder until the finger has entered its cavity, the beaked or probe-pointed knife can be readily conducted to the bladder for the piu-pose of enlarging the incision of the prostate, should this have been inadequately made; and if, from an unusual firmness of the prostate, the sides of the incision through it do not readily yield, much difficulty may be experienced in discovering the passage to the bladder when the staff has been withdrawn, and its aid as a con- ductor to the finger is thereby lost. (See Stanley on the Lateral Operation, p. 11.) In the prudence of these directions I entirely concur. The operator has next to grasp the stone with the blades of the forceps, for which purpose he is not to expand the instrument as soon as it has arrived in the bladder, but he should first make use of the instrument as a kind of probe for ascer- taining the exact situation of the stone. If this body should be lodged at the lower part of the bladder, just behind its neck, the operator is to open the forceps immediately over the stone, and after depressing the blades a little, is gently to shut them so as to grasp it. Certainly, it is much more scientific to use the forceps at first, merely for ascertaining the position of the stone ; for when this is known, the surgeon will more cer- tainly grasp the extraneous body in a skilful manner than if he were to open the blades of the instrument immediately, without knowing where they ought next to be placed or when shut. No man of experience can doubt that the injury whicli the bladder frequently suffers from rough, reiterated, awkward movements of the forceps is not an uncommon cause of such inflam- mation of this viscus, as extends to the peritoneum and occasions death. If the surgeon cannot readily take hold of the stone with the forceps, he should, with his fore- finger passed into the rectum, raise it up, when in general it may be easily grasped. The stone should be held with sufficient firmness to keep it from slipping away from the blades, but not so forcibly as to incur the risk of its breaking. The skilful management of the forceps consists in pressing the blades gently against the sides of the wound first in one direction, then in another, but especially downwards (towards the wider part of the space between the rami of the ischia), and in drawing them out slowly that time may be allowed for the yielding of the surrounding parts. (See Stanley on ilie Lateral Operation, p. 13,) For the most' part, as Sir B. Brodie has correctly stated, it is better that the convexity of one blade of the forceps should be turned upwards, and that of the other blade downwards. Attention to this point is especially of consequence in cases where there is an enlarged prostate gland forming a tumour projecting into the bladder. The smooth convex surface of the blade of the forceps is not interfered with by the projection, whereas if the forceps are turned in the other direction, the stone coming in contact with the tumour becomes, as it were, en- tangled by it, and the extraction is rendered dif- ficult. {On Diseases of the Urinary Organs, p. 282, Ed. 2.) The stone should always be attentively ex- amined immediately it is extracted, because its appearance conveys some information, though not positive, concerning the existence of others. If the stone is smooth on one surface, the smoothness is generally found to arise from the friction of other stones still in the bladder, but when it is uniformly rough, it is a presumptive sign that there is no other one remaining behind. In every instance, however, the surgeon should gently ex- amine the cavity of the bladder with his fore- finger, for it would be an inexcusable neglect to put the patient to bed with another stone in his bladder. After the operation, the patient is to be laid in bed on his back, a piece of oil-silk and some folded napkins being placed inider him for the reception of the lurine. His shoulders and loins are to be as much elevated as they can be with- out inconvenience, so as to make the wound in the perineum as depending as possible {Brodie). With respect to the application of a pledget and bandage and keeping the thighs closed, I confess that my own ideas lead me to regard them as Sir A. Cooper, Sir B. Brodie, and mauy other sur- geons do, as disadvantageous ; indeed, I believe the best plan is to leave the wound open, so that the urine may have a free outlet; strict attention being paid to keeping the parts clean. Sir B. Brodie recommends the thighs to be somewhat elevated by a bolster placed under the hams, and the knees to be a little asunder. {On Diseases of the Urinary Organs, p. 287.) In many cases where there has been a deep perineum, and especially where the stone has proved to bo of large size, Sir B. Brodie has introduced an elastic gum canula through the wound into the bladder, and allowed it to remain for the first two or three days—that is, initil the surrounding parts have had time to become con- solidated by inflammation. Such a canula makes an excellent conductor for the urine. It keeps