600 SURGERY siologist, and man of very original E;enius, may be cniisidered as the John Hunter of France; but his qualities were of a different cast, and hardly admit of comparison with those of Hunter, whose investigations were not limited to man, but_ ex- tended to the whole chain of animated beings. The example of Bichat, says Richerand, proves most convincingly what Boerhaave always incul- cated, and every man of experience knows, how indispensable the study and even the practice of surTery are to him, who would wish to be a distin- guislied and successful physician. {Nosogr. Chir. t i. p. 25.) ^ . The brilliant career of Baron Dupuytren during the space of five-and-twenty years, at tlie Hotel- Dicii, justly raised him to a degree of eminence, as a surgeon and pathologist, which few, either in his own or any other country, ever attained. His recent death seems to me, indeed, to have left in France a blank in the surgical community, not likely to be immediately filled up; fur a surgeon of his genius and ability cannot be expected to be born, even in that favourite clime of the arts and sciences, more frequently than once in a century. The light, which his observations have thrown on many difficult parts of surgery; the rigorous ex- actness with which he always enforced the con- nection between scientific surgery and anatoni)', physiology and pathology; the important reforms which he introduced into many of the operations; his readiness and prompt resources on every emer- gency in practice; and the combination which he exhibited of boldness, skill, and judgment, will always be subjects of admiration, and I feel no hesitation in pronouncing him to be the pride of modern surgery in France. Great originality will be found in his remarks on every topic which he undertook to investigate. Proofs of this vvill be noticed in his observations on per- manent contractions of the fingers; on diseases of the testis; on prolapsus ani ; on fractures of the fibula; on dislocation of the vertebrte; on strangu- lated hernia; on burns; on fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone; on artificial anus; on phlegmo- nous erysipelas; on lithotomy; on gun-shot wounds; on the growth of the toe-nails into the flesh; on dislocations of the humerus; on clubfoot; on lace- ration of the perina3ura; on congenital dislocations of tlie femur; on fistula lachrymalis; on ramila; on fracture of the lower end of the humerus; on exos- tosis of the groat toe; on fibro-cellular tumors of the uterus; on trachseotomy; on erectile tumors; on fungus hcematodes; on hare-lip; on anthrax; on the formation of callus; on fractures of the lower end of the radius; on amputation; on hydrocele; on bronchocele; on preparations of arsenic for can- cerous and phagedenic ulcerations; on chronic gan- grene; on the ligature of arteries; and on amputa- tion of the lower jaw-bone. These, with some other subjects, constitute the contents of the four volumes, published under the title Le(;ons oralis da Cliidijm chirun/icale, par M. le Baron Dupmj- iren, !!vo. Paris, l'!i34; an invaluable contribution to the sources of instruction on a vast miniber of most interesting surgical topics. Amongst the public institutions in Europe for the improvement of medical and surgical kiiow- hfdge, the Roval Medical and Chirurgical Society of London certainly stands pre-eminent, whetlier the reputation and number of its member.s, the importance of many of the papers which it lias published, or the extent and value of its library, be taken as the criterion of the character which is here assigned to it. Many of the facts which it has collected and published are of considerable practical importance, especially those relating to the subjects of aneurism, hasmorrhage, diseases of the joints, calculi in the bladder, and that least intelligible of all diseases, syphilis. Its library, which, next to that of the Royal College of Sur- geons in London, is the most select, valuable, and complete collection of medical literature in Great Britain, more especially with reference to modern works, is continually receiving additions, both by large purchases at home and abroad, and bi' the numerous donations of its members and others. Wlien, however, I contemplate the arrangement made by the foregoing College for the advantage of its members; when I recollect its magnificent museum; its rich and continually increasing library, both open almost daily for the accommodation of its scientific members and others ; the lectures annually delivered in its theatre; and the im- proved character of its regulations for professional education; I rejoice, that this metropolis at length seems to possess a great and influential public institution, which is contributing most essentially to maintain the usefulness and the rank of the sur- gical profession. In the course of the last thirty years, great and essential improvements have been made in almost every branch of surgery. Before the time of Mr. Hunter, our ideas of the venereal disease were surrounded with absurdities; and it is to this luminary, and the plain facts laid before the profession by the late Mr. Rose, that we are, in an eminent degree, indebted for the in- creased discrimination and reason, which now pre- vail, both in the doctrines and treatment of the complaint. It must be confessed, however, that much yet remains to be made out, respecting the nature and treatment of syphilitic disorders. Need I mention a greater proof of the truth of this remark, than the remarkable change of practice in some of the principal hospitals of the kingdom, mercury being now exhibited in not more than one out of every eight or ten cases, for which this medicine a few years ago was always deemed in- dispensable? Numerous cases, having all the characters of primary venereal sores, seem also now to be curable bv simple dressings and cleanliness; and the necessity for violent salivation, in any cases, is beginning to be generally disbelieved. In short, so ditTerent is everything from what it used to be, that many surgeons are tempted to suppose the natnre of the disease totally altered. See Veneheal Disease. Strictures in the urethra, an equally common and distressing disease, were not well treated of until Mr. Hunter devoted his attention to the sub- ject He first improved the method of applynig caustic within the uretlira; a practice which was afterwards perfected, first by Sir Everard Home, and again by M. Ducamp. In modern times, hernial diseases, those common „fi1ictions in every country, have received Highly interestim; elucidations from the laboiirs of 1 o t, Camper, Uichter, Sir Astley Cooper, Hey, O.m- hernat, Ilesselbach, Scarpa, Lawrence, Langeu- 't;/;Sti;»i!S;Hesof the head has been materially improved by Qucsnay, Le Dran,,Pott,