JOINTS, DISEASES OF. their most painful sensations being in tlie groin; and all accurate observers have remarked tiiat in hip (fisease, the pain is not confined to the real seat of disease, but shoots down the limb to the knee. [It is to be remarked that the pain becomes very excruciating when the cartilages are ulcer- ating, whilst in scrofulous caries it is com- paratively trifling; but in both forms it is felt chiefly in tlie knee ; and it has been remarked that in the scrofulous caries, the pain in the knee may be the only symptom complained of; some surgeons lijive actually observed a swelling there. The means of distinguishing between disease of the knee and hip-joint is to press upon the latter, either in front over the iliacus and psoas muscles, or behind the great trochanter; or if tlie femur is gently jerked upwards towards the acetabulum, pain will be felt in the hip, and the pain in the knee will be greatly aggravated. Mr. Coulson observes that no particular seat can be assigned to this pain in the knee, nor are surgeons agreed as to the real nature of its cause. In some cases the whole joint is painful; in others the pain is just behind the patella, or on either side, on the condyles of the femur; it may extend along the leg, and in a few cases has been noticed to occupy the ankle joint instead of the knee. The pain is of the kind denominated sympathetic. (See W. CouUon, On Dis. of the Hip-joint, and Lectures in the Lancet in 1854.) Sir C. Bell was of opinion that the pain arose from an affection of the obturator nerve ; others have referred it to the branches of the anterior crural nerve ; but Mr. Coulson observes that the same sympathetic pain in the knee-joint has been found to coincide with chronic inflammation of the sacro-ibac articulation,— a disease overlooked by most writers on surgery, though carefully described by Boyer, and noticed in the Clinical Surgery of Larrey.] In dwelling upon the subject of pain, Sir B. Brodie observes, that, at first trifling and occa- sional, It afterwards becomes severe, constant, and more fixed. A boy, in St. George's Hospital, com- plamed of pain in the inside of the thigh, near the middle ; and another patient referred the pain to the sole of the foot. Wherever the pain is situ- ated, it is aggravated by the motion of the joint, and especially by whatever occasions pressure of the ulcerated cartilaginous surfaces against each other. (Urodie's Pathol. Ohs. p. 139.) _ When the functions of a limb are obstructed hy disease, its bulk generally diminishes, and the muscles bfcome emaciated. Nearly as soon as the least degree of lameness can be perceived, the leg and thigh have actually wasted, and thei'r circum- ference has diminished. If the surgeon makes pressure on the front of tfie jomt, a lilt e on the outside of the femoral ar- tery, alter it has descended below the os pubis, great pain will be experienced. The limping „f the patient is a clear proof that somethmg about the lin.b is wrong, and, if such I.mping cannot be m.puted to diseased vertebra, or some recent accident, and if, at the same time,' the above-ment.oned emaciation of the li.nb exists there is great cause to suspect that the hip is dis' eased particularly, when pressing the front of the acetai.uliiin causes pain. affmr"'"1 J"";'"-"^ &«""'i'b- produce a paralytic affection of both legs at once, if they produce it at 141 all ; and they do not cause painful sensations about the knee, as the hip disease does. [In the second stage, the symptoms arc con- nected with a constant effort to keep the limb as free from motion as possible. The whole limb now becomes flabby and wasted, being diminished in size from disuse, and tlie constrained repose of its muscles. The affected buttock looks flatter and more wasted than the one on the sound side ; the marked division between the buttock and thigh is lost ; the buttock on the affected side is lower by an inch or more than is natural, and the whole limb appears to be longer than the one which is free from disease. In the greater number of cases the affected limb presents an appearance of elonga- tion ; in a few cases it is really elongated to a slight degree ; but the second stage may pass over without any change whatever taking place, either in the real or apparent length of the limb. (See W. Coulson, Lectures on Dis. of Joints, The Lancet, vol. ii. 1851, p. 499.) An actual lengthening does occur from effusion of fluid into the cavity of the joint. Mr. Coulson and many other surgeons fully believe this to be the case, but that it is not of frequent occurrence, and the elongation thus produced seldom exceeds one third of an inch. The influence exercised on the limb by the constant position of the patient, produces an apparent elongation of the limb, and this will be understood by what follows.] The increased length of the limb, in the early, or second, stage of tlie present disease, is a very remarkable occurrence. The symptom is easily detected by a comparison of the condyles of the OS femoris, the trochanter major, and malleoli, of the diseased limb, with those parts of the opposite member, care being taken that the patient's pelvis is evenly situated. The thing is the more striking, as the increased length of the'member is frequently as much as four inches. The rationale of this fact, John Hunter used to explain by the diseased side of the pelvis becoming lower than the other, (firow- ther, p. 266.) The same thing had also been noticed by Falconer {On Ischius, p. 9) ; and this ong before the period when Mr. Crowther printed hi3_ second edition. According to Sir B. Brodie, it is easy to understand how the crista of one ilium becomes visibly depressed below the level of the other, when the position is remembered, in which the patient places himself when he stands erect. " He supports the weight of his body upon the sound limb, the hip and knee of which are, in consequence, maintained in a state of extension At the same time, the opposite limb is inclined for- ward, and the foot on the side of the disease is placed on the ground considerably anterior to the other, not for the purpose of supporting the super- incumbent weight, but for that of keeping the person steady, and preserving the equilibrium.' Of course this cannot be done without the pelvis on the same side being depressed. The inclination of the pelvis is necessarily attended with a lateral curvature of the spine, and hence one shoulder is higher than the other, and the whole figure in some degree dis- torted. These effects are in general all removed by the patient's lying in bed a few weeks, except where the deformity has continued a long time in a young growing subject. (Palhol. Obs. p. 146.) [Sir Astley Cooper says, in relation to the lengthening of the limb, that it is possible that an effusion into the joint may push the limb a little