instrument is thus converted into a blunt hook; and indeed, any instrument constructed on this principle seldom fails in the hands of a skilful operator. In case of being unable to dislodge the fragment, we should not for a moment hesitate to remove it by externa! division ; but we have never yet failed with the instrument just described. In dividing, however, that part of the urethra which is covered by the scrotum, the surgeon must not overlook the possible occurrence of infiltration of urine and urinary abscess. The danger of these accidents ensuing was long since pointed out by Deschamps, and in later times has been dwelt on by Sir B. Brodie and Mr. Listen. When the fragment is arrested in the mem- branous or prostatic portion of the urethra, we should attempt, in the first instance, to push it back into the bladder ; and if this fail, the frag- ment must either be extracted with the instruments already noticed, or crushed in situ. The propriety of crushing, however, when the foreign body is seated so far back in the urethra, though recom- mended by M. Civiale, seems doubtful to many English operators. Before the surgeon can determine whether the operation of lithotrity has been completed in a satisfactory manner, he must assure himself that all the fragments of the calculus have been expelled from the bladder. Great irritation may be excited and kept up by a small portion of the stone which may have been overlooked ; or the fragment may become the nucleus of a new formation, and relapse of the disease be the result. The ordinary method of sounding, as employed by lithotomists, does not suffice to determine in ail cases whether or not the cure be perfect. M Civiale has devoted a chapter of his work on Li- thotrity to this important point, from which the loUowing remarks are condensed : .1,'^,'^^ ordinary sound be employed to explore the bladder, certain modifications of the method hitherto followed must be had recourse to. The patient should be placed in the recumbent posture and the bladder explored while the urine isflowiiiK away ; several injections of tepid water are then thrown in rapidly one after the other, and while the fluid 18 coming away the researches with the sound l^e eontmued. When the contractile power of the bladder has been thus excited, the cavity of the organ becomes so reduced that the sound has barely room to move in it, and a practised hand frequently detects the smallest calculi or fragmentsof the stone. - bhould any doubt remain, M. Civiale has recourse to his three-branched instrument, or to a small iitho- clast with short flat and broad branches. This in- ' '''■""lent 13 hollow in the centre,to permitthe escape * of fluid while it is in the bladder. Several injections ' of tepid water are first thrown into the bladder to excite its contractility, and bring away any mucus or clots of blood which may bo present in it. From two to three ounces of fluid are now injected and the lithoclast introduced before the fluid has' ' come away. When the operator feels that the ■coats of the bladder have contracted round the instrument, he rotates the latter slowly in the bladder, allowing at the same time the fluid to escape through the central cavity ; he directs the point now to one side, now to another, and finally 0 the floor of the bladder, while the blades of tlie iittioclast are separated or not accordini? to thp presumed size of the fragment.' (Ciw«&, 1. c. pp LITHOTRITY. 261 83, 230 ) By cautious proceeding in this way the smallest fragments are usually detected • but in some exceptional cases, when the prostate is greatlv enlarged, or the bladder encysted, &c., the explo- ration does not lead to satisfactory results. ' In these cases, if the patient continues to ex- perience any uneasy sensations at the time of passing water or afterwards, and if the urine be turbid or ammoniacal, we may conclude that the bladder has not been entirely freed from the foreign body.' ° Lillioirity in Females and CMrfrew.—The con- ditions of simplicity which distinguish the female urmary apparatus from that of the male, would lead to the conclusion that lithotrity must be more appli- cable to the former sex than to the latter. But the question has not yet been definitively settled either in this country or abroad. The operative proceeding is the same for the iemale as for the male. The introduction of the lithotrite into the bladder is usually easy, for the urethra is short and straight, and the absence ot a prostate prevents the occurrence of many obstacles to the introduction and working of in- struments. However, the depression just behind the neck of the bladder caused in the male hy tumefaction of the middle lobe of the prostate sometimes exists in the female also, though from' a different cause. M. Civiale has drawn attention to this circumstance. ' The neck of the uterus often projects into the posterior and inferior wall of the bladder, dividing its floor into two cavities, in each of which the operator is obliged to search for the fragments.' (1. c. p. 259.) °In some aged females, also, the walls of the bladder are very flaccid, and a depression is formed behind the internal orifice of the urethra, in which the operator sometimes finds it difficult to seize a small calcu us or fragments of the stone.' On the other hand as the writer has elsewhere observed, hthotrity has been successfully applied to cases ot stone in the female bladder under cir- cumstances which would certainly have contra- indicated the operation in the male. There are two principal reasons for this. In the first place the operation can be terminated, cceteris paribus, much more rapidly in the female than in the n,ale - 1 IS easier to seize the calculus, it is easier to crush' the calculus mto fragments. All tliese advantn-es render It much less likely that the operation wil be followed by irritation of the urinary organs or by any dangerous accidents. In the second place the fragments of the calculus are much less liable to be letamed in the bladder, or to become inl pacted in the urethra ; and it has been sliown that many of the evil consequences of an operation in he male depend on the irritation caused by the « two accidents. In the female they are rare. TJiere IS no impediment to the free evacuation of the detntus no curved canal to arrest their discharce while the great dilatability of the urethra in thj tenia e renders it less necessary to break up the calculus into very small fragments, and thus con- tributes to render the operation less protracted in cliiticult cases. The main objection brought forward against the expediency of applying lithotrity to the female i, derived from the alleged difficulty of makin-^ the female bladder retain the fluid injected into it It would certainly appear from many cases' on