TREPl In the records of surgery, innumerable facts may be consulted, where the prudent and judicious employment of the trephine has effected wondt-r- ful cures, and been the only thing by which tlie patients' lives could possibly liave been saved. Tlie benefit which the operation brings about is also sometimes so sudden and astonishing, that in no instance does the interposition of the surgical art display itself to greater advantage. The imnie-- diate restoration of sight by the depression, or ex- traction of an opaque substance from the eye, is not more beautiful and striking than the instan- taneous communication of the intellectual faculties, and of the powers of speech, of feeling, &c., toge- ther with voluntary motion, to a person lying in an apparently lifeless state from an injury of the head. The utility of the trepan is occasionally manifested even in this degree. In the valuable essay of Mr. Abernetliy," On Injuries of the Head," a case may be seen, in which the patient, who had been in a conditii^n almost bereft of animation, rose up and spoke the instant the extravasated blood had been removed from the surface of the brain : and amongst the wounded at the battle of Waterloo, there was a soldier of the 44th regiment, whose case is of equal interest. He had been stiuck by a musket-liall on the right parietal bone, which was exposed, but had no appearance of being fractured. As however the symptoms of compression were urgent, and the patient was in nearli' a lifeless state, I conceived it right to apply the trephine to the part on which the vio- lence had acted. I had not sawn long before the exteinal table came away in the hollow of the trephine, leaving the inner table behind, which was not only splintered, but driven at one point more than half an inch into the membranes and substance of the brain. No sooner were the frag- ments taken out with a pair of forcepp, than the man instantly sat up in his bed, looked around, and began to speak with the utmost rationality. It is a most extraordinary fact, that this patient got up and dressed himself the same dnj, without leave from the medical officers, and never liad a bad symptom afterwards. Immediately the ope- ration was finished, the temporal arteries were opened, and some purgative medicines exhibited. Sir Benjamin Brodie has seen a case in which there was a fracture with distinct depression of the inner table, while there was a simple fissure, which was scarcely perceptible, and that without the smallest depression of the outer table. He also adverts to the example recorded b)' Tulpius, in which there were extensive fissures of the inner table, although the outer one remained uninjured; and to another, mentioned by Pare, in which, while the outer table was entire, the inner table was broken into splinters, some of which were actually driven into the substance of the brain. Iji all fractures of the cranium with depression, it is remarked that the inner table is always broken to a greater extent than the outer one; and the actual depression greater than jvould appear from the mere in^-pection of the external fracture. These circumstances are imputed to the greater idasticity of the outer table, and more considerable biittlc- liess of the iinier. (See J\Icd. Cliir. Tiwis.yol. xiv. p. 3E0.) lu a case of fungus of the dura mater, with dis- eased bone, mentioned by Sclmunker, the trepan >va3 applied eleven times in less than a month, and the operation used to cause so little indisposllion that the patient hardly ever required to go to bed afterwards; and, on one occasion, actually went to market an hour after its performance. {Wuhrneh- munycn, b. i. p. 45ti.) Let not the young surgeon, howcTer, imbibe from a few dazzling examples of success an immo- derate solicitude to perform the operation; for it should scarcely ever be undertaken but in the most pressing circumstances, and when symptoms un- equivocally show that a dangerous degree of pressure on the brain exists. I recollect an un- fortunate example, in whicli the late Mr. Ilams- den, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, ventured to saw out a portion of the frontal bone for a mere long-continued pain in the part: the patient was attacked with inflammation of the dura mater, and perished in three or four days. Two analogims cases of the needless use of the trephine, with si- niilaily tragical results, are also mentioned by Sir Benjamin Brodie. (SeeMec/. Ckir. Trans, vol. xiv. p. 394.) That the removal of bune creates some risk of subsequent ulceration, and sloughing of the dura mater, and protrusion of the brain, is now a fact universally admitted. We may therefore conclude that the operation is not itself exempt from danger; and it is certain that it ongiit never to be resolved on without deep consi- deration, " Gravis ianien satis est opcratio, vt nun- quam, nisi indicationes siifficientes adsint, inslilui debet.'''' {Callisen, S)/sl. Chir. Hodiern. torn. i. p. 658.) In cases of injuries of the head, the trepan or trephine is hardly ever jusiifiable, except for the purpose of relieving the brain from pressure. Such pressure may be caused by a depressed portion of the cranium, or it may be produced by an extra- vasation of blood, or the lodgment of matter, 1h - twixt the skull and the dura mater. The chief danger of concussion, when the accident is not di- rectly or soon fatal from the disorganisation and mischief done to the brain, depends upon the con- sequent inflammation of this organ, and therefore cannot be likely to be benefited by the trephine. If the operation become proper in such a case, it is when an abscess has formed under the cranium, and when the confined matter itself creates bad symptoms by its pressure on the brain. This state, however, cannot come on till after the inllani- mation of the brain and its membranes has pre- vailed a certain time, and it is always accompanied with a detachment of the pericranium and a pull'y tumor of the scalp ; or if there be a wound of the latter part innncdiately over the abscess, t!ie lips of the injury suddenly acquire an unfavour- able appearance, and lose their vermilion colour. The patient has also had much preceding febrile disorder, pain and tension over the whole licad, redness and tnrgescence of the eyes, and generally more or less delirium. When the matter is forming, there are usually rigors, and as soon as it is formed, the patient falls into a comatose sUite, ami paralytic symptoms show thenifelves. Here the urgency for the prompt application of the tre- phine is very great, and the patient's only chance of living is almost essentially connected with the innuediate performance of the operation. Tins important case has been particularly dwelt upon in the writings of Pott. In the article IJE.\n, iNJtmiKS op, I have enu- merated the most remarkable symptoms of con-