142 JOlNTSj DISEASES OF. but lie doubts whether this has any influence in producing an elongated appearance of the limb. Mr. Lawrence, who has given a good description of the lengthening of the limb, says, that in the ear- lier period of the disease we sometimes find the limb longer than that on the sound side, and some- times shorter. This is only apparent. It depends, he observes, on the position of the pelvis ; lience, when the lower extremity of the affected side appears to be longer than that of the other, we shall find that the anterior superior spine of the ilium on that side is so much lower than its fellow; if the extremity of the sound side appear to be the longest, we shall find that the anterior superior spine of the ilium of that side is lower down than that of the aifected side. {Lectures in the Lan- cet, p. 484.)] The deformity of the spine was first pointed out by Dr. Albers of Bremen, in his work on Coxalgia. That the early stage of this complaint is sometimes attended with an appearance of shortening instead of lengthening of the limb, has been dwelt upon by Volpi, Albers, Sir Benjamin Brodie, Mr. Law- rence, and many others. Mr. Coulson thinks it probable that the head of the bone may occasion- ally be drawn by the muscles to the upper edge of the acetabulum, and the already lengthened limb shortened, without the head of the femur being pushed back into the acetabulum. {Op. cit. p. 55.) It is added, that in this case, the shortening is never so considerable as in a later stage. Though there may be more pain about the knee than the hip, at some periods of the malady in its incipient or first stage, yet the former articula- tion may be bent and extended, without any increase of uneasiness; but the os femoris cannot be moved about, without putting the patient to immense torture. The patient soon gets into the habit of bearing the weight of his body chiefly upon the opposite limb, while the thigh of the affected side is bent a little forward, that the ground may only be par- tially touched with the foot. This position is found to be the most comfortable, and every at- tempt to extend the limb occasions an increase of pain. [The third stage is characterised by the gradually increasing severe pain, which impedes every mo- tion of the joint, particularly that of extension. This pain is also violent during the night, prevent- ing rest; the slightest movement of the joint causes agony, and the patient is confined to bed, or hob- bles along with difficulty upon crutches. In many cases, however, even in this stage, the pain in the hip is masked until the precursory symptoms o suppiuration make their appearance. Constitutional disturbance is now observed perhaps for the lirst time, and ushers in this stage of the disease, the pain in the joint is aggravated, febrile symptoms continue; there are frequent shiverings with painiui starlings of the limb ; the patient s rest is dis- turbed, and he is distressed from starting and ca ch- ingin his sleep. Suppuration now ta'^f P';\^^ sometimes in the cellular tissue external to he joint, sometimes within the joint itself, in which latter case the capsular ligament soon gives way, and the effused matter gradually makes its way to the surface. (See Mr. Coulson's Lectures on Bis. of Joints. The Lancet, vol. n. 18.')4, p. iJUU- J The extremity becomes really shortened in this stage from ulceration, absorption of the head ol the thigh-bone, or from destruction of the margin of the acetabulum, whereby the cavity becomes shallower and wider, which permits of the limb being drawn up, or from deep ulceration of its socket, which, as has been previously shown, in extreme cases, has been found perforated by the head of the femur; or lastly, dislocation of the latter may occur. This last process is not so fre- quent as has been supposed by surgeons, and the latest writer on diseases of the joints (Mr. Barwell) asserts that spontaneous dislocation of the hip-joint is uncommon in comparison to the frequency of its absence. (Op. ci'i. p. 317.) Mr. Liston says that shortening does not often take place from dislo- cation, and Dr. Bauer also insists upon its rarity. When the dislocation has occurred it takes place usually but not always upon the dorsum of the ilium.] In Mr. Coulson's work is an excellent drawing taken from a case of dislocation of the head of the femur on the dorsum of the ilium from the effects of disease. {On the Dis.of the Hip-joint, pi. 6. 4to. London, 1837.) In rarer cases, the head of the femur, after being dislodged, has beea drawn downwards and inwards on the foramen ovale. In still rarer cases the head of the femur is drawn forward and rests on the pubes, the knee and toes being turned outwards. (See W. Coulson's Work, p. 40.) , c In some cases, indeed, the shortened state oi the limb arises from an actual dislocation of the head of the thigh bone, in consequence of the destruction of the cartilages, ligaments, and articu- lar cavity. In University College museum is a fine specimen of the termination of the disease in a. new joint, the articular cavity being formed in the upper portion of the femur and a new ball on the ilium. The old acetabulum is nearly obliterated, and near it, within the pelvis, the remains of the cyst of an abscess. I obtained this preparation from the body of a woman who died.in the neighbourhood of University College Hospital. I believe it to be the only one of the kind in London. A case is mentioned by Mr. Earle, in which the- head of the bone was dislocated into the ischiatic notch. (See Coulson on Dis. of Hip, p. 60.) In the museum of the College of Surgeons, in London, is a preparation in which the head of the femur is dislocated from the effects of disease into the- foramen ovale. Other instances of it are men- tioned by Mr. Coulson {Op. cit. p. 61), Boyer,. and Sir B. Brodie. Mr. Coulson attended a young woman, whose thigh bones were both dislocated from disease, and who could wiilk about very well; and Mr. Wick- hain has recorded; a similar case, in which the limbs are represented in the everted position, so- that I infer that the new joints are formed on the ossa pubis. [When an abscess has formed, instead ot ap- pearing in the thigh, it may make its way into the pelvis through ulcerated openings in the bottom of the acetabulum. In some cases it has burst into the vagina, in others into the rectum. Occa- sionally it discharges into the pelvis, and thence escapes through the ischiatic notch. Mr. t'lrne met with a case in which the abscess opened into the bladder. In the acetabular form of coxalgia abscess is often one of the earliest signs of serious mis- chief. Abscesses usually form behind the joint