SKIN, DIS 5ASES OF. more or less quickly. On the other hand, it not nnfrequently happens that the eruption continues on the bodj-, maintained by nervous irritation and perpetuated by habit even when the acarus is de- stroyed, and takes on the semblance of lichen; this latter must be regarded as a secondary erup- tion. The peculiiirities already noted will explain the terms, dry itch, lymphatic itch, and pustular itch. 2. Erythematous Affections.— Erythema or inflammatory blush is a superficial inflam- mation, accompanied with little or no swelling of the skin, occurring in patches of variable ex- tent; more or less diffused or circumscribed, and often terminating in desquamation of tiie cuticle; it may present itself as an acute or chronic affec- tion, and in one or other of the seven following forms, which represent its chief varieties :—E. fugax, lasve, intertrigo, circinatum, marginatum, tuberculatum and nodosum. Ji!. fiigaon is an erup- tion of one or more red patches on any part of the skin, hut more commonly on the face and neck than elsewhere; the patches or blotches are produced under the stimulus of mental emotion or meals; they last for a few hours and then disappear. Sometimes the rash is remarkable for sudden swelling of the skin, e. tumescens; and to the same category belongs the transient hypersemia of vica- rious menstruation, e. meiistruale. E. lave seu cedematosum is the hypereemia which accompanies cedematous distension of the lower extremities. £J. intertrigo is the inflammatory redness which re- sults from chafing the skin as by friction from pres- sure, and from the contact of irritant substances (e. ab acribus); it is met with in the plaits and folds of the skin of infants and fat persons, as also at the apertures t)f the body. The hyperasmia following a blow, is termed e. ab ictu; that occa- sioned by riding on horseback is e. in equitantibus; and that which results from the pressure of the weight of the body in bed-ridden persons is the e. a decubitu, or, e. paratrimrna; a scorch by the fire is e. ab igne; and the hyperaemia following ex- posure to cold, e. ab gelu. When intertrigo is attended with a mucopurulent discharge it must be regarded as an eczema mucosum. JS. circinatuin consists of circular patches, which, enlarging by the circumference and fading in the centre form rings of various dimensions. E. marginatum is an ery- thematous streak, with an abrupt border, represent- ing a segment of one of the larger rings of E. cir- cinatum; the rest of the ring having disappeared. E. tuberculatum is a raised form of erythema oc- curring in spots varying in size from a papula of lichen, e. papulatum, to a diameter of half an inch or niore; they are developed for the most part around 'the joints, are attended with tingling and itching on their eruption, are tender to the touch, and leave behind them the purple and yellow stains of a bruise at their decline. E. nodosum is a more pro- minent and deeper seated form of the disorder; it is generally oval in figure, situated on the lower limbs, occurs in small number, and is not unfre- quently solitary. It is tender to the touch, and at its decline leaves behind it the stain of a bruise, hence a name given to it by llebra, dermatitis contusiformis. Erysipelas is a diffused inflammation of the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, attended with more or less swelling, peculiarly disposed to change its place and spread, and often accompanied with vesications contiiining serum. It presents two principal varieties, E. simplex, which is su- perficial ; and E. phhgmonodes, which burrows in the deeper textures, and is attended with suppu- ration, and sometimes with gangrene, E. gangre- nosum. The varieties of E. simplex are as fol- lows:—E. erraticum; metastaticum; miliare; phlyc- tenodes and oedematodes. E. erraticum and E. metastaticum illustrate two of the special charac- ters of erysipelas, namely its erratic and its metas- tatic properties. E, miliare and E. phlyclenodes indicate the tendency to the production of vesicles, miliare, of small size; and phlyctenodes (E. bul- losum) large vesicles or blisters. E. cedematosum is a form accompanied with an cedematous state of the integument. Urticaria or nettlerash, is an eruption distin- guished by extreme itching and tingling, which have gained for it its name, by its occurrence in patches and rarely affecting the entire body, by the suddenness of its attack and departure, and by the development of itchy elevations termed wheals, which are one while pale and round like small tubercles, and another while resemble the stripes left on the skin by the lashes of a whip, and are variously curved. The wheals are thrown up on a ground of inflamed skin, and sometimes the eruption is accompanied by derangement of the digestive organs. Urticaria may be acute or chronic; two varieties, namely, U. febrilis and conferta belonging to the former; and U. evanida, perstans, subcutanea and tuberosa to the latter. U. febrilis indicates the association of febrile symp- toms with the eruption; and under this head is to be considered Urticaria ab ingestis, of which the symptoms are occasionally severe. U. conferta is distinguished by the confluence of its wheals; U. evanida by its evanescence, coming out wherever the skin is touched in the lightest possible manner, and disappearing in a short time completely. U. Persians indicates an opposite quality of the dis- order to the evanescent form, in a word, a persistent eruption. In U. subcuta^iea, the spasm of the muscular structure of the skin takes place in the deeper strata of the coriura, and the tingling paia and often the swelling is felt beneath the skin; while in U. tuberosa the wheals are large and pro- minent, and have the character of tubercles. Roseola, or rose rash, is a patchy and punctated erythema, distributed more or less fully over the whole body. The tint of the eruption is crimson or roseate, and its distribution occurs in small clusters resembling those of measles, hence its s)'- nonym,/a;se measles. It is sometimes accompa- nied with febrile symptoms of the slighter kind, and by a crimson suftusion of the fauces. The varieties of roseola are :—R. infantilis, astiva, autumnalis, annulata, and punctata; to which may be added, R. variolosa, vaccina, miliaris, rheunia- tica, arthritica, cholerica, and roseola febris conti- nuae. R. infantilis is not nnfrequently mistaken for measles, which it very closely resembles; but is milder in all its symptoms. R. Wstiva &nA R. autumnalis indicate the tendency of the eruption to occur during the hot montiis of summer and au- tumn; the former more frequently among adults, tiio latter in ciiildren. In R. annulala the patches spread by the circumference, while they fadeni the centre and assume the figure of broad rnigs. R, punctata is developed in spots which occupy the mouths of the follicles of the skin; and are apt a