INFLAMMATION. sdntial service by relieving tliat most troublesome symptom, pain ; but he liaJ often used tartar emetic, opium, campiior, and salines without bene- fit till the calomel was added. " We generally look upon it as a happy presage of the patient's recovery when the salivary glands become af- fected by this noble medicine." Dr. Hamilton gave bark and wine freely, when the malady began to decline, especially in acute rheumatism. He refers to the Medical Museum, 1764, to observ- ations of Dr. Lind in h is Dinacses of Hoi Climales. and Dr. John Clark, of Newcastle. (See Sir J. M'Griffoi 's Med. Skelches, Lond. 1804, p. 174.) Thus was '• inaugurated " the treatment by calomel and opium which, as R. Ferguson remarks, was peculiar to modern English practitioners.' Cul'en and Hunter, Benjamin Bell, and John Burns, knew it not. Vitet {Mtdecine e.vpectante, vol. i! p. 365, 1803) forbids mercurial inunction in en- teritis. It was, however, praised by Elliotson in his Inaugural Thesis De Injl. Com. at Edinburgh in 1810. It meets with the warmest approbation from Armstrong. It was promoted by Abernethy, Cooper, Travers, Lawrence, and the other great successors of Hunter. It was considered by the elder Dr. Farre as " positively antiphlegmonous," but most decidedly opposed to those forms of inflammation characterised by strong adhesion and firm fibrine, whilst it tended to render inflamma- tion loose, diffused, and spreading. He believed it useful in iritis, common and syphilitic, but that It stopped the effusion of lymph necessary for heahng iritis after a wound. In the strictly inflammatory forms of puerperal fever (not in the ataxic or adynamic) and in inflammations gene- rally, when the lancet cannot be used, it" equa- lised the circulation." (R.Ferguson, op. cit.) It : contmued the regular practice so long as bleeding ' enjoyed the vogue. Todd, in 1843 (O/2 gout, ^c, p. iao),orthodoxically recommends the system to be brought as soon as possible under the influence of calomel and opium in pericarditis after leeches and b isters; "first" he says, "to check the effusion of lymph ; and, secondly, to promote absorption of that which is already poured out." In acute rheu- matism he, like Dr. Macleod, gave opium without calomel, because they believed that the calomel did no good. Latham and Watson praised it in pericarditis. In 1859, Todd tells a different tale. He says that the "vaunted powers of mercury " in causing absorption of lympii, are based upon false analogy and clinical ignorance. From the time when bleeding fell, "calomel and opium" have shared the same fate ; and with scant justice ; be- cause although the analogy of the cure of syphilitic iritis with that of pleurisy may be false, althouMi salivation is an unmixed evil and no safeguard —for I have known pleuropneumonia begin in a patient whose gums were sore—yet in the proper sthenic cases, the additimi of calomel to the opium, wfnch should be given if there be pain, will cause the liver and bowels to drain off much animal sewage, and help in the antiphlogistic work. . We may repeat that mercury may bo employed m one of two ways, either to produce elimination oy tile liver and bowels, or to accumulate in the system till salivation or some approach to it show that no more can be borne. Used in the former way, after Ahernethy's fashion, in the dose of 5 grains of blue pill at bedtime, with a dose of senna •'■Id gentian m the morning ; or in the dose of a t69] quar or grain of calomel, or n grain or two of ev^y powder at bedtime, there is no doubt that it cleans the tongue, empties the bowels, brii,™ down a healthy, yellow secretion, makes the urine clear, and so may get rid of a host of chronic strumous, and other ill-conditioned local inflamma- tions. In using it thus, care must be taken not to allow salivation, not to allotv the bowels to be worried or to discharge inodorous mucus, and we should give a plain, nutritious diet, with some tonic. It It be desired in a chronic inflammation to use mercury to act upon the system at large, the best preparation is the corrosive sublimate, which does the work in the smallest dose. Chronic, strumous, and cachetic inflammations, opacities of the cornea and the like, may be treated withJg ofagrain, thrice daily at meals, in a pill ; and some efiioient tonic should be given at the same time. Sir A. Cooper's compound of one grain of corrosive sublimate to an ounce of tincture of bark is a first-rate thin-r for strumous children ; a solution of it in tincture of chloride of steel is equally good for chronic in- flammation of the womb ; it goes, also, well with cod-liver ml, and with sarsaparilla. When we say that It produces no sensible evacuation, we must not forget that it often causes a great flow of urine, and keeps the bowels regular. Simihir purposes are answered by the pill of Dr Andrew Pliimmer, composed of calomel, golden sulphuret of antimony, and guaiacum. {Med. h^says and Obs. by a Soc. in Edinburgh, vol. i., 1/47.) Donovan's Solution of mercury, iodine and arsenic is a potent alterative. ' b Next to mercury we must treat of those lordly remedies, bark and quinine. In every inflammation where there is a suspicion of a mala- rious cause, in any visceral inflammation in the course of remittent or intermittent fever ; in dis- eases arising from cold and damp, amongst which may be reckoned rheumatic fever, bronchitis, pneumonia, influenza; in diseases showing aii intennittent_tendency ; in diseases arising from blood-poisoning, or attended with, or preceded bv, a tram of conditions exhausting the body and mind ; in any acute inflammation where ordinary remedies do no good, and especially if the heat rise immoderately, quinine should be tried. In the unmistakably malarious series, it should be given boldly in ten grain doses, till the ears rino- • 0 patients rather exhausted than poisoned it may be given ,n smaller doses. It goes along with any other reniedy of any sort. In the malarious cases It of itself suppresses the disease ; in the others It assists in the cure. It helps to promote ease and sleep, abates fever, and opens the liver and bowels. I he substitution of quinine for calomel and bleeding in the remittents and dysenteries of the East 13 due to the Army Surgeons, amongst whom 1 must mention my friend, Inspector-General Edward Hare (On Fever, &c., Delhi, 184 7. Med Times and Gaz. vol. ii. 18G4) and Surgeoii-Major I'leming. (See also Therapeutics, by Dr. Wariim an able Indian practitioner, Lond. 18GS.) c. Iodide of Potassium ranks as a specific in some syphilitic diseases of the bones and perios- teum, and ulcerations of mucous membriines and in neuralgic, rheumatic, strumous, and other nou- syphilitic diseases of similar character. The desiderata in practice arc remedies that shall cause morbid cell growths to waste ;-as those of scrofula, syphilis, cancer, fibroplastic myeloid and