214 LITHOTOMY. objections are that it may have the effect of with- drawing tlie point of the instrument from tho bladder, and of approximating the bladder and the urethra to the rectum. In an instance where the assistant pressed the staff down- wards, the rectum was wounded by the scalpel in the first stage of the operation ; and in tho young subject the risk of such an occurrence will be greater on account of the small size and soft tex- ture of the prostate gland." (On the Lateral Operation, p. 3.) On this point, Mr. Liston, who employs a knife, agrees with Scarpa. " The staff," he says. " is hooked against the symphysis, and entrusted to an assistant with directions to maintain the position steadily from first to last, neither to turn it so as to make it bulge in the perineum, nor to depress the handle as the knife enters the bladder. The sur- geon's left hand is thus left at liberty to guide the knife , and guard important parts from danger." (On Practical Surgery, p. 410".) The best surgeons differ, however, with regard to the most advanta- geous way of holding the staff. Thus, Sir Ben- jamin Brodie, after mentioning that the surgeon should be seated on a stool before the'patient, adds that " he is first to attend to the position of the staff, taking care that it is held nearly perpendicu- larly, the handle of it, however, being inclined towards the patient's right groin. This causes the convexity of the instrument to project slightly on the left side of tho perineum. (On Dis. of the Urinary Organs, p- 271, ed. 2.) Sir A. Cooper directs the operator to hold the staff perpendicularly and to let it rest on the stone, as he has seen many instances in which the gorget has not entered the bladder, owing to the staff not having itself passed into it, but rested against the prostate gland. It seems then that there is no agreement among surgeons respecting the best po- sition of the staff, and that the main points,are to hold the instrument firmly, taking care that its beak is in the bladder. The operation is accomplished by a free incision of the skin and subjacent fat, by dividing the transversalis muscle and a part of the triangular ligament, and continuing the incision through the left side of the prostate. (See E. Sianley, Op. cit.) The first incision should commence below the bulb of the urethra, about an inch and a quarter in front of the anus, over the membranous part of this canal, at the place where the operator means to make his first cut into the groove of the staff, and the cut should extend at least three inches ob- liquely downward to the left of the raphe' of the perineum, at an equal distance from the tuberosity of the ischium and the anus, or, as some operators prefer, the line of it may be to a point distant two thirds from the anus, and one from the tuberosity of the iscliium. {Stanley.) The first cut should descend rather beyond the level of the centre of the anus, for it is a general rule in surgery to make free external incisions, by which the surgeon is en- abled to conduct the remaining steps of his opera- tion with greater facility, and nowhere is it so necessary as where a stone is to be extracted. (Alkm.) Callisen lays it down as a rule that the incision ought not to extend to such parts as can make no impediment to the extraction of the stone, and therefore (says he) the bulb and that part of the urethra which is surrounded by the corpus spongiosum should never be cut. Only those parts ought to be divided which firmly resist the safe introduction of instruments into the -bladder and the extraction of the stone. Hence, the integu- ments must be opened by an ample incision, and the membranous part of the urethra, transversiis perinei muscle, levator ani, and prostate gland be properly divided. (Systema Chirurgicc Hodierna:, pars ii., p. 655.) Like Scarpa, however, he is fearful of making a free cut through the neck of the bladder, and in lieu of doing so prefers a slow and cautious dilatation of the parts. Mr. Mar- tineau used also to introduce the point of the knife into the groove of the staff' as low down as he could, and cut the membranous part of the urethra. {Med. Cldr. Trans, vol. ii.) The nearer to the prostate gland the urethra is opened, the better, as it lessens the risk of wounding tjie bulb or its artery. {E. Stanley, Op. cit. p. 7.) When the external cut through the integuments, fat, and superficial fascia has been executed, the next object is to divide the lower fibres of the ac- celerator urina; and transversus perinei muscle, which stands like a bar across the triangular hollow out of which alone the stone can be ex- tracted. This second cut should also divide the triangular ligament. Having placed the beak of the gorget in the groove of the staff, the operator takes hold of the latter instrument with his left hand, raises its handle from the abdomen so that it may form nearly a right angle with the body, and stands up. Before attempting to push the gorget into the blad- der, however, he should slide it backwards and forwards with a wriggling motion, that he may first be sure of its beak being in the groove of the staff. The bringing forward of the handle of the latter instrument, so as to elevate its point before introducing the gorget into the bladder, is also considered of great importance ; for it is by this means that the gorget is introduced along the groove of the staff in the only direction unattended with risk of wounding the rectum. Attention to this rule is especially necessary when a staff with a groove not closed at the end is emploj'ed. The neglect of it in this case might make the operator cut the bladder with the garget in several places, as, according to Mr. B. Bell, has actually happened. , But since tho gorget, when in- troduced as nearly as possible in the axis of tlie bladder, mav transfix and otherwise injure this organ if introduced either too far or at all beyond the extremity of the staff, I am decidedly of opinion that every surgeon who chooses to pcrlonn tlie lateral operation with a gorget should employ a staff, the groove of which is closed at the ex- tremity, as is invariably done in France, and is expressly enjoined by Scarpa. See Sahatier, Med. Oph-atoire,U\\\.:v- 233, ed. 2, and Sairpa, Opus- cnli di Ghirurqia, vol. i. p. 39.) There can also be no doubt of the prudence of endeavouring to have only a limited depth of the staff in the bladder. Scarpa specifies an inch and a half as the proper distance to which the end of the staff should enter the bladder. However, this distinguislied pio- ssor was an advocate for a very limited mcision, who prefer making a freer staff that reaches nito this rather further. Much, however will de- pend upon the kind of gorget employed, particu- arly its breadth ; and if the staff is to rest against ICS and other operators opening must use a viscus