INTESTINAL ates the bladder with a catheter. With a view to favour an exploration, should it be necessary-, of the whole cavity of the abdomen, it will be prudent to select the median line for the incision. The hand introduced here can readily penetrate to any part of the abdomen ; no important structures are divided, and there will probably be no hcemorrhage. The incision should be made at first sufficiently large to admit the hand of the operator into the ab- domen, sa)', from one finger's breadth below the umbilicus to the same distance above the pnbes. The integuments, lineaalba and transversalis fascia, having been divided with a scalpel, the subperi- toneal fat will be reached. A small puncture of the peritoneum must be carefully made to admit a director, upon which, or upon the finger intro- duced and passed behind the serous membrane, the probe-pointed bistoury will safely complete the section. The distended intestines will now endea- vour to escape from within the abdomen, and must either be repressed by assistants, or, if allowed to protrude, be protected and kept warm by hot flannels ; while, should the wound be too small to enable the operator to effect his object, it must be enlarged in an upward direction to enable him to proceed. His object will be to find the seat of obstruction, and to do so he will of course commence the search in the region indicated by the symptoms, and in doing BO should endeavour to find a portion of bowel situated below the lesion, and which will be pale, empty, and contracted. This done, the contracted gut is to be traced to the spot at which it is appa- rently cut off from the portion of bowel lying on the proximal side of the obstruction, and which will be more or less distended, injected, and probably undergoing certain pathological changes. A false membrane, if found, may be torn or cut across (a fine ligature being placed upon any bleeding vessel requiring it, and cut short) ; a loop of intestine must be withdrawn cautiously from any aperture through which it has passed ; and, indeed, what- ever the cause of obstruction, its appropriate remedy must be resorted to. Should the stricture be relieved, the contents of the distended bowel will probably commence to enter the contracted por- tion, and success so far will be recognised by a gradual distension of the latter and proportionate diminution of the former. But it may happen that the obstruction, although found, cannot be removed ; and if so, a knuckie of distended bowel as near to the lesion as possible, and on the proximal side of it, must be united to the niferior angle of the wound by suture, be opened, and the establishment of an artificial anus be attempted. ^ It is also possible that the portion of bowel which 18 the scat of obstruction, may have undergone such pathological changes (gangrene for example) as ""j unable to resume its functions ; under those circumstances this disorganised portion must be brought out and maintained at the wound, With the hope that an artificial anus may result. Ihe exploration completed, the viscera must be retained within the cavity, while the wound is being closed by twisted or interrupted sutures, ine pin of the former should penetrate all the strata of the abdominal wall, including peritoneum, *b.Ie the knot of the latter should be tied on o,ie ue 01, and not opposite to, the incision atthesive plaster Strips of may be employed to support OBSTRUCTIONS. 99 the sutures. If the distended intestines interfere materially either with the progress of the opera- tion, or with the closure of the wound, their gaseous contents may be removed by puncture witli a fine trocar and canula. The patient, having been returned to bed, the treatment will consist in endeavouring to prevent peritonitis, by the free administration of opium by mouth and rectum, and in supporting the flagging powers of life by the use of concentrated fluid nutriment, and probably stimulants also, by mouth and rectum. References to some of the cases of gastrotomy areas follows:—Hilton two cases, Med. Cliir.Trcms. vol. XXX. xxxi. Druitt, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi. Fergusson two cases. Lancet, January, 1850. Prov. Med. Surg. Joiirn. May, 1853. Gay, Med. Ga- zette, August 29th, 1851. Lawson, Trans. Path. Soc. vol. 12. Gastro-Enterotomy.—A large number of cases of intestinal obstruction will occur, in which it is utterly impossible to determine with any degree of probability the nature and seat of the lesion. All the resources of medicine shall have been tried in vain to remove the symptoms, and the patient's life is evidently in jeopardy. What then is to be done under these doubtful circumstances ? Is gastrotomy to be attempted and the abdomen to be explored ? We hold that, unless, as already stated, the symptoms indicate the probable seat of stricture, an exploratory operation is not justifi- able, since the length of time requisite for its accomplishment, and the haiidling and exposure to which the viscera must be subjected, too much diminish the chance of life to render such pro- cedure advisable. But the sufferer is not to be allowed to suc- cumb without an effort being made to rescue him from his perilous position. Gastro-enterotomy must be performed with a view to the establish- ment of an artificial anus. In determining the site for the operation it will be obviously of great importance, as regards the future nutrition of the patient, to select a portion of intestine above the stricture, but as far from the stomach as possible ; as, for example, the c£Bcum, or lower part of the ileum. With this object in view the right iliac region should be chosen. Chloroform having been administered or not, an incision from two to four inches in length, nearly perpendicular, but with a sli^iht convexity directed outwards' should include the three muscular strata and the' transversalis fascia of the anterior abdominal wall seriatim, midway between the course of the deep epigastric artery and the anterior superior spine of the ileum, its inferior extremity terminating about one finger's breadth above Poupart's ligament. The peri toneum, having been punc tured and slit tip to a similar extent, either on a director or on the finger of the operator, the distended bowel will probably protrude at the wound, and having been secured to the same by interrupted sutures, may be laid open in a longitudinal direction to the extent of an inch when the operation is completed. Should there be a choice between two portions of bowel present- ing, the large intestine should be selected in pre.< ference, and, next to tliis, a portion of small intes- tine having none or few valvuke conniventes, which circumstance may be ascertained by palpation. To obviate the inconvenience of an artificial anus M MuisoiineuYC lias proposed to substitute nn " anas- H 2