MORTIFICATION. the presence of any iclioroug, iiriiiaiy, or fecal matter effused in the cellular substance; violent contusions, such as are produced by gunsliot wounds, or bad fractures ; tiie strangulation of a part, as in cases of hernia, or when pol_vpi, or otlier tumours are tied; a higli degree of inflammation ; and lastly, everything tliat has the power of stopping the circuhition and nervous energ)' in parts. (Lctssiis, I'al/io/or/in Chir. t. i. pp. 34, 35.) [To these mu*t be added long continued pres- sure, as of the child's head in protracted labour on the meatus urinarius; or of a comatose or fever patient on the skin of the buttocks or hips. But few traumanc causes are equal in importance to in- terference with the main artery or vein of a limb ; such as wounds or ruptures of arteries, ligature, aneurism, and every idiopathic mode of obsti'uc- tion, such, for example, as embolism. (See infra.) Circumstances which hinder the return of venous blood are of equal force. The effect of injuries, and of irritation of the nerves, in producing mortification has been discussed in the article Inflammation.] Iiijlamnmtion is one oftiio most freqmnt causes of mortificaUon. But, as I have already remarked, the death of a part may take place without previous inflammatory disorder; and the latter, even when present, is, in reality, only an effect of the very same cause which produces the sphacelus itself. It is often a matter of doubt whether actual inflam- mation precedes the occurrence or not ; for a part, before it mortifies, is in certain instances only af- fected with pain, and with no degree of preter- natural redness. [The most correct way of putting the matter, is to drop the use of abstract Latinized terms, and use concrete English ones ; and to sav that a part injured, but not killed outright, often inflames before it mortifies; and that the in- flammatory swelling and ex;udation tend to inter- rupt the circulation, and to destroy the remains of •vitality.] Mr. James enumerates the following circum- Btances, as capable of influencing, in a very great degree, the disposition of inflammation to termi- nate in mortification : 1. The powers of the part, in which the inflammation occurs, being naturally weak, as in fibrous membranes, the §crotum, &c. 2. The remote supply of blood, or nervous energy-, as in the lower extremities. 3. Obstruction to the return of blood. 4. To the supply of blood. o. Disease in the heart, or vessels. 6. Debilitv from age, habits of life, disorder of the digestive organs, or fever. 7. Poor livmg, fi;ul air, impro- per food, scurvy, &c. 8. Impairment of organ- ization from external injury. 9. Of the nervous power by poisons. 10. Undue e.tcitement of weakened parts. 11. Depressing remedies. 12. Pressure and tension. 1.3. Excessive violence of inflammatory action. 14. Peculiar disposition in the constitution. {James on Inflammation, p. 102.) ^^'ith the exception of carbuncles and boils, Which are essentially gangrenous diseases, phleg- monous erysipelas is, of all inflammatory com- plainta, that which most fieqiiently terminates in gangrene. It demands early free incisions, wlien the cellular tissue is tlireatened with gangrene, or »8 actually gangrenous. Ihe symptoms of mortification from inflam- •nation take place variously, yet generally as Jollmvs :__'p|,e paj^ sympathetic fever sud- denly diminish, the part nftectej generally be- comes soft, and of a livid colour, losing, at the 301 same time, more or less of its natural warmth and sensibility. In some places, the cuticle is de- tached; while, in other situations, vesicles arise filled with a clear or turbid fluid. Such is the state to whicii we apply the term gamjrciie, and which state of the disorder too often rapidly ad- vances to sphacelus, when the part becomes a cold, black, fibrous, senseless substance, called in tech- nical laiigunge a slough. It merits notice, that, "in cases, in which gan- grene immediately succeeds inflammation, these two morbid states may, in some measure, be re- garded as stages, or periods, of the sailie disease. They pass insensibly into one another; nor is it possible to say precisely where the one state ends, and the other commences. The symptoms of in- flammation, in these cases, do not disappear before those of gangrene come on; but seem rather to undergo a gradual and almost imperceptible change, or conversion, into one another. The redness ac- quires a deeper lincie, and spreads farther, than for- merly; the siuellinp increases and becomes more doughy; and, in this incipient stage, the gangrene, particularly when it attacks the cutaneous texture, often bears a considerable resemblance to erysipelas." It is to be observed, also, that " the part of the bod}-, which becomes affected .with gangrene, does not immediately lose its sensibility, for the pain, on the contrary, is often very much aggravated by the approacli of this state. The blood also still continues to circulate, at least, in the larger vessels of ihe pari, but perhaps, zoith less force; and from the resistance which it meets with in passing through the capillaries, i?i less quayitity than for- merly. The serous effusion into the cellular mem- brane continuing to increase, and the action of the absorbent and sanguiferous vessels to diminish,the part becomes at length incapable of being restored to its former office in the animal economy. It is, therefore, in its earlier stages only, that gangrene' IS to be considered as an affection admitting of cure; for there are limits, beyond which, if it pass, recovery becomes impossible. These limits it may not, in every instance, be easy to define; but they form the boundaries between incipient gangrene and the ultimate termin.'ition of that state in spha- celus." (Thomson on Inflammation, pp. 506, 507.) Dr. Carswell observes, that when the " modifica- tions of colour, consistence, temperature, and sensi- bility continue to increase, and terminate in spha- celus; the part affected assumes a still deeper tint, or becomes of a dirty brown, or black, colour,' sometimes grejr, greyish, yellov, or greenish. The vesicles, or phlyctena;, become more numerous and larger, or the whole of the epidermis, coveriim- the sphaccl.Ued parr, may bo completely separated, raised in the form of a large blister filled with bloody serum, or ruptured and lying in wrinkles on the denuded and discoloured cutis. The skin and cellular tissue, beneath the epideriiiif, arc swollen and puffy, and crepitate when pressed; or they are soft, flaccid, and cold; and maybe cut, pinched, or otherwise stimulated without pain, or feeling of any kind being induced; and lastly, the sphace- lated part emits a strong cadaverous odour. When these latter appearances present themselves, but more particularly when the peculiar odonr of gan- grene is perceived, they may be regarded as posi- tive signs, not only of complete death of the part to a certain depth, but also that putrefacticni has already taken place. The local empliysemn, and