434 PARACENTESIS steady, firm manner, never in an incautious, sud- den way, lest parts contained in tlie peritoneum should be rashly wounded. For the same reason, immediately the point of the trocar has entered the abdomen, a thing always known at once by the sudden cessation of resistance to its passing inward, it should be introduced no further, and its office of making a passage for the canula is already accomplished. The surgeon, conseciuently, is now to take hold of the canula with the thumb and index finger of his left hand, and gently insi- nuate it further into the cavity of the peritoneum, while with his right hand he is to withdraw the stilet. [The extreme caution here recommended is most judicious when any doubt exists as to the proximity of the viscera to the surface; but in ordi- nary cases the layer of fluid which covers them is several inches in depth, and the trocar may, Avithout danger, be plunged into it. This latter mode of operating is now usually adopted as less painful and equally safe.] The fluid now gushes out, and regularly as it escapes, the sheet, or other bandage round the patient's body, is to be tight- ened. All the water having been evacuated, a piece of flannel and a roller are to be immediately applied, as above explained, a piece of lint and soap or adhesive plaster having been previously put over the wound. It is not uncommon for the water suddenly to stop long before the full quantity is discharged. Sometimes this happens from a piece of intestine or omentum obstructing the canula. This kind of stoppage may be removed by just introducing a probe or director, and holding the portion of bowel back. When the water is viscid, the only thing we can do is to introduce a large trocar, if doing so should promise to facilitate the evacuation. Also" when hydatids obstruct the canula, a larger instrument, or the enlargement of the opening, would allow them to escape. In encysted dropsies the practitioner, of course, can only let the fluid out of those cavities which he can safely puncture. According to Sir Astley Cooper, the water of en- cysted dropsy is at first contained, not m a smgle bas, but in several, the partitions between which are in time" gradually absorbed, and the number of distinct cavities consequently diminished. Hence another reason why the fluctuation becomes more evident as the disease advances. (Lectures, S:c., vol. ii. p. 373.) The fact, if established, should also influence the surgeon not to make too early a puncture, which could only discharge the fluid from one cyst, while several others, not having yet any communication with it, would remain dis- tended. , , The abdomen of a female was tapped by Di. Andrew Buchanan through the fundus of the blad- der, for which [purpose a tube with a stilet was introduced by the meatus urinarius. The method was adopted chiefly for the purpose of trying what would be the result of maintaining, m ascites, a communication between the cavity of the perito- neum and that of the bladder. In the case re- ferred to the water was discharged; but success did not attend the endeavour to keep the puncture in the fundus of the bladder open. {Btichamn, in Glasrjoiu Med. Journ. yo\. i. p. 195.) It seems to mo that any means calculated to perpetuate Ulu LUctli till J JUCIHIO VI. f the opening would be likely to cause peritonitis The continuance of an opening between the cavity of the bladder and that of the abdomen, or of the cyst, ov/ing to the irritating qualities of the urine, can hardly be viewed as free from serious risk. There is an analogy between this suggestion and that of Mr. Guy, of Chichester, who pro- posed leaving the canula in the wound, and occasionally letting the water flow out after the ordinary mode of paracentesis ; a plan, however, which is attended with considerable though less risk, but has sometimes been followed by a cure. (See Sir Aslky Cooper's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 383.) . , ^ When dropsy of the ovary is large, it also ad- mits of being tapped in the linea alba; but in this particular case it is generally best to make the puncture where the swelling is most prominent. In this disease the ovary is either converted into one large cavity (unilocular) filled with fluid, or else there are several distinct cysts (multilocular). Under the name of ovarian dropsy have also been included simple serous cysts, formed in the broad ligaments and Fallopian tubes. "All these confounded together" (as Dr. Seymour ob- serves) " under the name of hydatids, are distin- guishable from the latter, by being nourished by vessels supplying them from the parts in which they are formed ; vesicles to which the narne hydatid is attached being nourished by their own blood-vessels, or in other words, having an independent life." {On Principal Diseases ofilte Ovaria, p. 45.) In the early stage the tumor is situated towards one side of the abdomen, just above Poupart's ligament, and seems to ascend out of the pelvis. This at once distmguishes the disease from a common ascites, which is attended, from the first, with an equal, gradual, universal swelling of the abdomen. The magnitude which the disease may attain may be judged of by the fact, that twelve or fif- teen gallons of fluid have sometimes been con- tained in the cavity or cavities of the cyst. The cyst of the ovary]! when it has attained a large size, generally adheres, in different places, to the inner surface of the peritoneum, and in this state the whole abdomen often seems uniformly swollen, in consequence of the immense magnitude of the disease. (See G. D. Motz, De Structura, Usu, et Morhis Ovariorum. 4to. Jens, 1788.) It is m observation made by Sir A. Cooper that one ot the principal differences between ascites and ova- rian dropsy is that the latter is in itself quite a local disease, just like a hydrocele. This obser- vation, I believe, is perfectly correct ; and though crreat illness frequently arises, it is generally the Result of the pressure made by the swelling on the parts within the abdomen and pelvis. The im- pairment of the health, arising from the pressure of the viscera and interruption of their functions, and the great difficulty of breathing produced by the pressure of the diaphragm, indeed frequently make it absolutely necessary to let out the flu d. The disease may be attended with an almost total stoppage of the secretion of urine. (See case by Darlou; in Frov. Med. Trans, vol. |v- P; ^O^-) Sometimes the urine is duly secreted, but a re tenTon occurs, and the use of the catheter becomes ind|_spensable ^^^^.^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^.^.^^ ^-f^ ferent insUes, but are fnerolly --t severe ^^^^ principally depend upon the p.^^^^^^^^^ :fS:ir'^f^ rc:^ " Where the increase