LITHOTOMY. 232 b.'ing taken not to increase the pressure as the forceps is being withdrawn through the neck of the bladder and prostate, where the greatest re- sistance is usually experienced. In spite of caution, the calculus, however, may !;ive way, and either throw off several fragments, or even break up into a mass resembling mortar. This is an unfavourable accident, for it compels US to introduce instruments frequently into the bladder ; and the irritation thus produced has excited such violent contraction of the organ as to render it impossible to finish the operation. When it does occur, any large fragments must be extracted with the forceps, and the smaller ones with the scoop; some will inevitabl}' remain be- hind, and to remove these, injections with tepid water are to be employed and repeated before the wound in the perineum closes. The writer has recorded a case in which more than an hour was employed in removing, with a scoop, the matter of a fusible calculus ; still a con- siderable portion remained; and as he was unwil- ling to protract the operation any longer, the patient was removed to bed. At the end of a fortnight he introduced a large catheter through the urethra and washed out the bladder thoroughly ; this brought away a good deal of the friable matter through the wound in the perineum. The same process' was repeated every second day until no more calculous matter came away—that is, for about a fortnight. The patient recovered, and had no relapse. Although the obstacles connected with the ex- traction of the calculus are the most frequent and important of those which occur during lithotomy, several other impediments may present themselves, and therefore require notice. Generally speaking, the practised operator will experience little difficulty in making his way into the bladder ; but sometimes the groove of the staff may be missed, or the knife may slip out of the groove, making the incision irregularly or to one side in a dangerous manner. The use of the button-headed bistoury enables us to avoid the latter of these accidents, while the former is avoided by keeping the nail of the left forefinger well in contact with the groove of the staff, which the assistant takes care to hold perfectly steadj-. Unusual depth of the perineum, however, may produce some difficulty in reaching the bladder easily. In old and fat persons, the distance from the surface to the neck of the bladder may be so con- siderable^jthat it is| impossible to reach the cavity of the organ with the finger. A case of this kind is related by Mr. Erichsen, who found that the ordinary lithotomy knife was too short to cut through the prostate. {Lancet, August 16, 18SC, p. 198.) In children, on the other hand, from the great extensibility of parts and other circum stances, the bladder is apt to yield before th( knife; and when the incisions have been made, the bladder is apt to yield before the finger ; thus giving an artificial depth to the perineum and im peding the introduction of the forceps. In aged persons, again, the neck of the bladder may be very thick or unyielding, or spasmodic contraction may exist, as in the case related by Deschamps, where spasmodic contraction rendered it impossible to pass even a catheter into the bladder, Any considerable enlargement of the prostate gland is always a cause of difficulty and annoy ance. The lithotome cachd has been more than once broken during attempts to divide an indu- rated prostate; but the great obstacle which con- siderable enlargement of the prostate causes is to seizing the stone : it places the calculus beyond the reach of the finger, or even of the ordinary forceps ; besides which, the enlarged gland, ele- vating with it the neck of the bladder, leaves ■ behind it a depression in which the stone be- comes lodged. In cases of this kind the surgeon should employ a very long curved forceps, and at the same time seek to raise the stone from the de- pressed cavity in the bladder by introducing his finger into the rectum; this latter expedient, how- ever, will often fail, as the finger is too short to reach beyond the enlarged gland. Contraction of the walls of the bladder, whether habitual or as an effect of irritabilitj'-, often leads to embarrassment, by preventing the operator from passing the blades of the forceps between the stone and the vesical parietes. Previous injection of the bladder with tepid water may assist in ob- viating this unfavourable condition of the organ. Under ordinary circumstances the calculus is lodged on the floor of the bladder behind the prostate gland; but, as Mr. Cooper has shown, it may occupy various other positions, being entangled in folds of the mucous membrane, embraced by irregular muscular fibres, or engaged in a cyst. The various attempts made for the removal of encysted calculi are always attended by consider- able danger. If the calculus be completely en- cysted, no attempt should be made to dislodge it by incision of the neck of the sac. But when the stone is only partially contained in the cyst, and when it is not far beyond the reach of the finger, an effort may be made to enlarge the orifice of the sac, and dislodge the foreign body with some blunt- pointed instrument—the scoop, for instance. Cut- ting instruments should never be employed in such cases. Without being actually encysted, however, the stone may occupy an anomalous position, appear- ing to be hooked above the pubes, and perhaps re- tained there by abnormal adhesions. The nature of these adhesions has been well made out by Mr. Shaw, who has described an interesting case of this kind in the Transactions of the Pathological Society (vol. vi. p. 250) : " Midway between the orifices of the ureters there was an oval spot of the size of a sixpence, where the mucous and muscular coats were absent, and a quarter of an inch above the orifice of the left ureter there was a rough patch on the surface somewhat smaller. A calculus had been adherent to each of these points. On one side of the larger calculus a cir- cular spot, about half an inch in diameter, was covered with a thick'flocculent layer of fibrous tissue; and, on closely inspecting the mode of union between the fibrous tissue and calculus, it was seen to be effected by the fibres dipping into and bemg incorporated with the calcareous substance." The writer has met with cases in which the calculus occupied the irregular position above the pubes. The stone could only be struck by depress- ing the handle of the sound so as to bring Us point against the anterior wall of the bladder ; and its extraction with the forceps would De ex- tremely difficult did not the operator take the pre- caution of raising the pelvis. {Coulson on the Blad- der, 5th edition, p. 60C.)J