COS SPINA ] " a species of hernia, and that the deficiency of the spine might be compensated for by external pressure;" he therefore treated a case in a child by means of simple compression. He modelled some plaster of Paris to the tumor, and, lining it witii lint, kept it in position by strips of adhesive plaister, and a bandage : this was continued for some montlis, and then a truss, similar to those in use for umbilical hernia, was applied and con- stantly worn, with the eflFect of preventing further increase in the size of the swelling, which was then about as large as a small orange. This pa- tient was seen by Mr. Samuel Cooper at the age of twenty-nine, and described by him as being " ac- tive and in perfect health,'' although the continuous nse of the truss was still necessarj': when this was removed the tumor reappeared, and an opening into the spinal canal could be felt with the finger. Another child under Sir A- Cooper's care was treated by repeated punctures of the tumor with a needle, so as to dravv off small quantities of tlie fluid, and pressure was afterwards applied by means of a piece of pasteboard and a roller. After several punctures, inflammation was set up in the cyst, followed b}' rapid diminution in its size, and ultimate cure. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ii.) This patient was also seen by Mr. Cooper twentj'- eight j'ears after the operation, and he remained well.] The first of the preceding observations exem- plifies the palliative treatment, and consists of the application of pressure in the manner of a truss for hernia ; the second shows the radical mode of cure by puncturing the swelling from time to time with a needle, and exciting adhesive inflammation, which, with the assistance of pressure, stops the disease altogether, in such examples as admit of cure. [The plan of tapping the tumor repeatedly with a small trocar, and afterwards applying pressure either with an air-pad and India rubber bandage, as recommended by Erichsen [System of Surgery, liibl), or by other suitable means, should certainly be tried before more severe measures are adopted. Many cases have been much benefited by this procedure, and a cure has occasionally been ob- tained ; when this result has taken place, it has been in consequence of adhesive inflammation having followed the punctures, and thus closed the sac or cut off its communication with the spinal membranes: sometimes, however, the inflamma- tory acti n has spread along the membranes and led to a fatal termination, or it has caused para- lysis. Before practising this, or in fact any other, operation for spina bifida, the position of the cord with respect to the tumor should, if possible, be ascertained, and a careful examination will gene- rally enable the surgeon to decide with consider- able certainty whether it be contained in the sac or not. Where such is the case, the probabilities of death from operation are so great, that none should be attempted, and palliative treatment alone employed. In puncturing the tumor, Mr. Prescott Ilewett directs that the trocar or grooved needle should always be introduced at the lowest part, and on one side, so as to avoid wounding the foid or the nerves which generally are found con- nected with the sac along tlie median line, and this must be especially b(irne in mind when the swelling is in the sacral regi(ni. {Loc.cit. p. 4G3.) The whole of the fluid within the cyst should not be withdrawn, at any rate not until the tapping has been practised several times, and it is very desirable to heal the wounds as quickly as possible, and to prevent the admission of air into the sac: to this end the punctures sliould be covered with collodion immediately the trocar is with- drawn, and indeed it may be applied with advan- tage to the whole of the skin. The method of treatment by pimctures and compression has re- ceived the sanction of Malgaigne, who, though usually averse to operating upon these cases, con- siders this to be less perilous than any other pro- ceeding. {Op. cil.) In some instances, the fluid re-collects almost as quickly as it is withdrawn, and the tumor steadily increases in spite of treatment. To meet this class of cases. Dr. Brainard, of Chicago, has in- jected the sac with a solution of iodine, and his results have been most encouraging {Am^r. Journ. of Med. Science for 1861, vol. xlii.). He draws off a small quantity of the fluid by means of a fine trocar, and injects an eq\ial quantity of iodine solution ; if much irritation supervene, he with- draws the contents of the cyst, and replaces them with warm distilled water, or some of the original fluid kept for the purpose : this process he repeats as often as may be necessary. When the tumor begins to contract, or becomes flaccid, he emplnys pressure to support it, or paints it with collodion. He relates several successful cases in his own practice, and in that of others, claiming for this treatment a comparative absence of danger, from which, however, some fatal cases have recently shown that it is not altogether exempt. Velpeau has proposed to treat this disease like an ordi- nary hydrocele, hv emptying the sac and inject- ing a solution of iodine, but this method does not show such favourable residts as Dr. Brainard's.] Children are sometimes born with tumors ana- logous to spinse bifidee, but situated on the head. There is a deficiency of bone at some part of the skull, and through the opening a sac, composed of the dura mater, protrudes, covered only by the integuments. Mr. Earle met with such a swell- ing, situated upon the occiput of a female infant. The plan of repeatedly making small punctures with a common needle, discharging the fluid, healing up the punctures, and applj'ing pressure, was tried, and followed up for some time, without the occurrence of any unpleasant symptoms. Even punctures were sometimes made with an ordinary lancet ; yet the child suftered no harm from the operation, and ^ome hopes of a cure were indulged. At length, liowever, ulceration of the swelling took place, the child became indisposed, and rapidly sunk. {Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. p. 427. See also Chclius' System of Surgery, by Sjuth, vol. ii. p. 465.) Mr. Dawson has recorded the particulars of a spina bifida in a lady, 38 years of age, which occasioned a tumor at the upper and back part of the thigh, and was supposed to be a swelling of a difl^erent kind. When an operation for the re- moval of it was .about to be performed, a pmicture was made in the thinnest part of the skin cover- ing its apex, and twelve ounces of clear fluid were discharged, leaving the sac collapsed, which was found to have a narrow neck passing to the lower part of the sacrum, in which there was an aperture capable of admitting the little finger. The patient sunk on the nineteenth day after the operation.