941 VENEREAL DISEASE. forward along the angle between the labium and tlie thigh, to tlie glands in the gioin, and often, in this course, small buboes are formed in the ab- sorbents, similar to those abscesses which occur on the penis in men. Owing to the difficulty of being sure that wo- men are quite free from infection, it is often more difficult to decide in them, than in men, whetiier :i bubo is venereal or not. In men who have Imd 110 local complaint, the bubo can only be venereal when direct absorption from the surface of the skin iias taken place, a circumstance of rare occurrence, A bubo commonly begins with a sense of pain, which leads the patient to examine the part, where I a small hard tumor is felt. This increases, like I every other inflammation that has a tendency to suppuration, and, unless checked, pus forms, and ulceration follows, the matter commonly making ; its waj' to the skin very fast. Mr. Hunter re- ; marked, however, that some cases were slow in 1 their progress. This circumstance he imputed I either to the inflammatory process being kept back by mercury, or other means, or to its being re- : tarded by a scrofulous tendency. The inflam- I mation, he says, is at first confined to the gland, which may be moved about in the cellular mem- i brane; but, when the part has enlarged, or when I the inflammation and suppuration are more ad- vanced, the surrounding parts become more in- 1 flamed, and the tumor is more diffused. Some 1 buboes become complicated with erysipelas, or I oedema, by which they are rendered more diffused, 1 and less disposed to suppurate. [Mr. Hunter does I not appear to have been aware of the fact, now I generally admitted, that buboes which follow or 1 accompany indurated chancres do not, as a rule, : suppurate, but remain indurated throughout the primary affection.] Mr. Hunter allows, that to distinguish, with 1 certainty, the true venereal bubo from other swellings of the glands in the groin, may be very difficult. He represents the true venereal bubo, in consequence of a chancre, as being moat com- monly confined to one gland. It generally pre- 1 serves its specific distance till suppuration has 1 taken place, and then becomes more diffused. It i is rapid in its progress from inflammation to sup- 1 puration and ulceration. The suppuration is com- I monly laige, considering the size of the gland, and I that there is only one abscess. The pain is very I acute, and the inflamed part of the skin is of a ' florid red colour. As 1 have stated, however, this description does not agree altogether with that of M. Ricord, who represents some venereal buboes 13 being combined with other abscesses not of a specific nature. Mr. Hunter describes such buboes as arise without any visible cause, as being of two kinds. ' )Me sort inflame and suppurate briskly. These he ilways suspected to be venereal, although he allows ; here was no proof of it, and only a presumption deduced from the quick progress of the disease. The second kuid are generally preceded and attended with slight fever, or the common syiup- Uims of a cold, and they are, for the nu)st part, indolent and slow in their progress. If quicker than ordinary, they become more diffused than venereal buboes, and they are often not confined to one gland. When very slow, they give but little sensation ; but when quicker, the sensation i more acute, though not so acute as in venereal cases. They usually do not suppurate, and often become stationary. When they do suppurate, it is in a slow numner, and, frequently, in more glands than one, while the inflammation is more diffused, and not considerable, in relation to the swelling. The matter makes its way to the skin slowly, and the part affected is of a more purple colour. Sometimes the abscesses are very large, yet not painful. In considering whether the swellings of the in- guinal glands are or are not venereal, the first thing to he attended to is, whether or not there are any venereal complaints. If there are none, as Mr. Hunter observes, there is a strong pre- sumptive proof that the swellings are not vene- real. When the swelling is only in one gland, very slow in its progress, and gives but little or no pain, probably it is merely scrofulous. How- ever, when the swelling is considerable, diffused, and attended with some inflammation and pain, the constitution is most probablj' affected with slight fever; the symptoms of which are lassitude, loss of appetite, want of sleep, small quick pulse, and an appearance of approaching hectic. Such swellings are long in getting well, and do not seem to be affected by mercury, even when promptly applied. Mr. Hunter mentions his having seen the above affection of the groin, together with the constitu- tional indisposition, take place where there were chancres ; and he was puzzled to determine whether the disease in the groin was sj'mpathetic, from derangement of the constitution, or whether it arose from the absorption of matter. He had long suspected that there was a mixed case, and was at last certain that such a case might pre- vail. He had seen instances, in which the vene- real matter, like a cold or fever, only irritated the glands to disease, producing in them scrofula, to which they were disposed. In such cases, says Mr. Hunter, the swellings commonly arise slowly, give but little pain, and if mercury be given to destroy the venereal dispo- sition, their progress is accelerated. Some sup- purate while under this resolving course ; and others, which probably had a venereal taint at first, become so indolent that mercury has no effect upon them, and, in the end, they either get well of themselves, or by non-mercurial means. Another important point in Mr. Hunter's doc- trine is, that buboes are local complaints. When a bubo is judged to be venereal, and only in an inflamed state, an attempt is to be made to resolve the swelling. The propriety of the at- tempt, however, depends on the progress which the disease has made. If the bubo is very large, and suppuration near at hand, re.solution is not likely to be effected. When suppuration has already taken place, the probability of any success attend- ing the endeavour is still less, which now may only retard the suppuration, and protract the cure. The resolution of tliese inflammations seemed to Mr. Ilnnter to depend princijyal//^ on mercury, and almost ahsolulcly on ihe quaniiti/ -whic/i ran he nuidu to pass llironyh iheiii. When suppuruiion has hiken place, the cure also a/ipeu7r.d lo him to depend on the sunie circumstances. Hence, he recom- niended the mercury to be applied to sudi sin-- faces as allow the remedy, when ab.-orbed, lo pass through the diseased gland. In this manner, he conceived that the disease in the groin might