medy of most promise, and one which, if performed at the right time and with due precautions as re- gards manipulation and after treatment, is almost certain to be successful. It is most essential not ti) delaj- till tliu dyspnoea has become very urgent, and the puffy, discoloured, anxious face, convulsive movements, and intense agony of approaching suf- focation have become manifest, as then prostration will quickly follow such al)ortive attempts to breathe, and the prolonged want of rest, and the circulation of impure blood, will destroy that recu- perative strength on whicli we must depend for recovery. It is not by any means asserted that recovery may not sometimes follow tracheotomy performed in the most desperate circumstances — some cases which have fallen under the writer's own caie amply prove the Contrary,—yet it is ex- ceptional for success to be then attained, v/hile it would be the rule if operative interference were sooner resorted to. The degree of strength pos- sessed by the patient will very manifestly and most pov.'erfuUy influence the result. If the child is constitutionally delicate, or its vigour diminished by previous ailment or by the effects of the present attack, the hope of success from tracheotomy will be much diminished. It is to be remembered that a state of asphyxia does not always manifest its establishment by s\ich obvious signs as were b'jfore described. Occasionally, on the contrary, restlessness, exhaustion, and stupor, alone mark its advent. There is no excitement. Nothing probably affects the result of the ope- ration so much as the strength of the patient at the time of its performance. If able to throw off the false membrane and to take food, the hope of suc- cess is very considerable. If the child is weakly, independently of the croup, from being of delicate habit, or a victim to some other depressing ailment; if lowering remedies have been energetically pur- sued at the outset of the disease; if the child is very young, or cannot be carefully nursed and tended after the operation; then the chance of success will be muchimpaired. It is probably from the difference of strength alone that the observation has been made that the older the child, other things being equal, the better the hope of success. The more the effusion is limited to the upper part of the windpipe the better, yet cases are not wanting in which tracheotomy lias apparently saved life when the exudation has penetrated far below tlie point opened. We must frequently operate when we cannot form any very accurate idea of the extent to which the exudation lias reached, but in most cases we can form a toler- ably correct opinion. Albuminous urine is always a bad sign, and one wliich should be inquired after. It renders the case unpromising, but by no means desperate or hopeless. To conclude the consideration of this point then it may be said that success in the performances of tracheotomy in croup depends in a great measure on attention to— 1st. The avoidance of depressing and exhaust- ing remedies in the early stages of the disease. 2nd. The case being one in which the danger solely or mainly arises from an obstruction in the windpipe to the entrance of air into the lungs. 3rd. Operating before exhaustion and blood con- tamination have appeared. ■ith. Skill and care jn tlie necessary manipula- tions. !HEA. 7g7 .5th. Careful after treatment. The operative procedure will obtain separate and detailed notice, but the after-treatment of cases of croup which have been operated on demands dis- tinct mention, as it is most important. The most strenuous endeavours should be made to support the strength by the administration of concentrated and easily assimilated food, of which meat soups, milk, eggs, chocolate, jelly, &c., are the most useful. If the general health require the use of drugs, they must of course be employed, but not otherwise. No specific remedy is of any avail. Calomel, antimony, potash, &c., are useless after the windpipe has been opened. Food and care- fully regulated stimulants (good claret and brandy) are the real remedies. It is by such means and the admission of air into the lungs tliat the disease is to be combated. Tracheotomy in croup removes the great source of danger in the early stages of the affection, —it provides an opening by which air gains admittance and false membranes are ejected—it allows of the application of local remedies, and prevents exiiaustion and collapse, while the effect of drugs may be developed if they are capable of controlling the disease, and it at least helps to up- hold life while the malady exhausts itself, and lastly it gives rest and comparative comfort to the sutferer, and imparts consolation and hope to rela- tives whose distress is often almost as poignant as those of the patient. The advantages which attend the operation then are sufficiently obvious, the drawbacks which have been alleged to it are that it renders attacks of bronchitis and pneumonia frequent, and that unless skilfully performed it may be attended with much daniier. Adroitness in operating is not to be at- tained by all, but judicious after treatment aa regards protection from cold air and careful feeding is. Trousseau strongly advises the free application of nitrate of silver to the interior of the windpipe, after it has been opened, and this to be repeated daily till a healthy action is established. Cases may arise in which this practice is desirable, but as a rule the avoidance of all irritation must be aimed at. After tracheotomy has been performed in croup, death may occur from accidental circumstances, such as obstruction of the canula, liajniorrhage, &c., but it is chiefly from exhaustion, the extension of. the disease, and the implication of the bronchial tubes and lungs that a fatal result is to be feared. The rapid sinking which occasionally takes place a few hours after the operation, and when every- thing appears to be favourable, has been attributed to nervous exhaustion and pulmonary collapse. Diphtheria (Si<p6epa, a skin) is a specific disease of great fatality, occurring epidemically and being possibly contagious. It consists in inflammation of the mucous membrane of the throat, followed by lympiiic exudation, and this may come to cover the tonsils, pharynx, hirynx, and ODSophngus. It may invade the nares and penetrate into the stomach and broncliial tubes. It is attended with yrcat feebleness and prostration, and an enlarge- ment of the cervical filands, which usually accom- panies it, adds considerably to the swelling of the throat and the embarrassment of resjiiration. This disease may become rapidly developed, or, on the contrary, establish itself most insidiously.