LITHOTOMY. 237 surgeons! to avoid all interference with the re- flexion of the ileo-vesical or pelvic fascia from the sides of the cavity over the base of the prostate and side of the bladder. In Older of frequency after extravasation of urine and hcemorrhage must be reckoned phle- bitis or purulent infection of the blood. The frequency of this accident after certain operations on the genito-urinary organs has been generally admitted ; but, from the absence of accurate ob- servation, its connection with lithotomy has not been noticed by any systematic writers in this I country. All French authors, on the other hand, . insist on the occurrence of purulent infection after lithotomy ; and its comparative frequency in this country is proved by the records of Guy'a Hos- pital. In the paper by Mr. Bryant, already alluded ; to, we find five fatal cases from phlebitis out of I forty recorded in the books of that hospital. In i Dr. Barnard's cases three deaths out of six are attri- i buted to phlebitis. In Mr. Teale's thirteen cases one occurred from pelvic and crural phlebitis ; 1 while two others not examined were probably cut off by the same cause. To these four causes, viz., shock, hsemorrhage, I urinary infiltration, and pyaemia, must be attri- I buted the immense majority of deaths after lithotomy, and to their avoidance should the ; attention of the surgeon be therefore mainly I directed. Simple peritonitis and cystitis are compara- tively rare. There is, finally, another cause of deatli after lithotomy, viz. disease of the kidney and pye- litis ; but in moat cases it will be found that the operation only hastened death, and has not been ita actual cause. However this may be, Mr. Bryant'a table shows that pyelitis and inflam- mation of the kidneys were the cause of death in six out of forty fatal cases. This is a very large proportion, yet not to be wondered at when the condition of many patients labouring under stone is remembered. Vesical calculus seldom exists for any considerable time without producing either disease of tlie kidneys or a tendency to disease in these organs which the slightest exciting cause may light up. Many patients labouring under incipient disease of the kidnej's or with suspicious symptoms are thus operated on and compelled to run a risk which in the nature of things it is impossible for them to avoid. Dr. Humphry records one case of great interest, in which, although but little force was used, the bladder was ruptured by the forceps, and the stone escaped through the laceration into the peritoneal cavity. Mr. Humphry's seven deaths were from a total of 89 operations. Of these 41 were in adults, with 5 deaths, nr somewhat less than 1 in 8. (See Lancet, vol. i. 180 t, p. 4G1.) Mr. Outtcridge, of Birmingham, !i;is operated on 1^7 patients with only seven deatlis, an amount of success which we believe has not been surpassed by any operator of the present day. (See Pamphlet on Lithotomy, 3rd ed. 185D.) Mr. Thompson haa published in his Lettsomian Lectures some interesting remarks on the causes of death after lithotomy, of which the following is a summary. He commences by remarking that the causes of death are not the same in adult life and in the period of youth, although it has been the custom to regard the fatal contingencies of all ages in the mass without making this dis- tinction. The first, and, beyond all doubt, the most fre- quent cause of death in the adult is acute inflam- mation of the tissues, especially of the loose cellular tissue about the neck, base, and sides of the bladder. This inflammatory action may be caused by mechanical violence, by urinary infil- tration through too deep incisions, by want of re- parative power in the patient, from erysipelas, &c. Mr. Thompson thinks that mechanical violence inflicted for the removal of the stone, especially when the opening is of insufficient size, is much more frequently the cause of this inflammation than the infiltration of urine, to which it is attri- buted by the majority of authors. In confirma- tion of this opinion it is remarked " that while it is certain that the boundaries of the prostate are almost universally overstepped by the knife in children, infiltration of urine very rarely occurs in them." Death from ill-conditioned inflammation pro- duced by urinous infiltration," when the parts have been opened by too deep incisions, al- though undoubtedly occurring sometimes, does so much less frequently than is usually supposed. If extravasation has been so frequently disco- vered after death, it has been rather the conse- quence than the cause of the infiltration which accompanies it. The remaining causes of death are, cellulitis occurring from constitutional causes, inflammation of the bladder extending upwards to the kidneys, absorption of urinary products, phlebitis and pysemia, shock, hajmorrhage, and exhaustion. In children the most frequent cause of death is peritonitis ; the next cause, probably acting almost as frequently, appears to be constitutional exhaustion or debility. The following remarks by Mr. Cooper are re^ tained in the present edition ; they are interesting; as showing the views which formerly prevailed re- specting tlie causes of death after lithotomy and the treatment required. It will be seen, however, that they are considerably at variance with the opinion now generally entertained, and to which expression has been given in the preceding para^ graphs.] There is no doubt that many adults who die after lithotomy perish of peritoneal inflammatrorp. Hence, on the least occurrence of tenderness over the abdomen copious venesection should be put int practice; at the same time from twelve to tweivty- four leeches should be applied to the hypogastric region. The belly should bo fomented and tiie bowels kept open with the oleum ricini. ITiia feebleness of the pulse should not deter the piaxi- titioncr from using the lancet ; thi« symptonn is only fallacious, and generally attendant on all m- flammation within the abdomen. It is a curious fact that Mr. Martineau, who onlj' lost two oui of eighty-four patients whom he operated upon'fm the stone, should never have found it requisite to bleed ; but it appears to me that it is a much better argument in favour of the superior safety of operating with the knife and m.iking a free? opening, than reason for discarding vonesectioni when inflammation of the peritoneum has come on, which, however, may not be this gentleman's