775 TREPHINE. cussion iind compression' of the brain ; a subject, which every siugoan should study with earnest attention, before he ever presumes to employ the trephine. For sometimes those cases are ex- tremely difficult to be discriminated ; sometimes they exist together in the same individual, a complication which is peculiarly embarrassing ; and, in every instance, where the symptoms are those of concussion, the operation so far from btiing indicated, would be a step of all others the most likely to do harm, by increasin;^ the irrita- tion and the risk of inflammation of the brain and its membranes. A fall upon the back, or upon the head, occasions a direct concussion of the brain ; and the shock, not being materinlly weakened by the intervention of any yielding elastic structure, is the more dangerous. When a person has fallen from a certain height, and pitched on his head, his back, the bnttocks, the knees, or even the soles of the feet; when he has been instantly deprived of his senses, and then by degrees recovered them and come to himself again : the fact of his having suli'ered concussion of the brain is clear and indis- putable. Concussion lias likewise taken place, though in a slighter degree, when the patient has been only stunned by the fall, and experienced a sensation of sparks. But, a multitude of degrees separate this feeble concussion from that in which the substance of the brain is instantaneously dis- organised, so that there is not the possibility of recovery. The symptoms of concussion of the brain are attended with coma, and the compression of this organ by an extravasation is also accompanied with lethargic heaviness. How then is the sur- geon to ascertain, whether the comatose dis- order arises from one or the other of these ati'ec- tions ? Here, in order to avoid repetitions, I beg leave to refer to the observations already made in another article. (See Heau, Injuries of.) But there is one criterion of such importance, that it may prevent innumerable fatal mistakes, and, indeed, without the continual recollection of it, no man ought to interfere with this dark and abstruse part of sur- gery. On this account, I shall mention it here, notwithstanding it has been already noticed else- where. If the patient has been knocked down and stunned directly by the blow and remains in a state of insensibility, these primary sj'mptoms are as- cribable to thu concussion. On the contrary, when the ciima and loss of sense do not take place till an hour or two after the blow, they are to be imputed to an extravasation. Tiic shock given to the brain by concussion, must, like every other impulse communicated, continue to diminish, until it ceases altogether. If, at the very time of the blow, the shock has not been forciljle enough to produce alarming sym- ptoms, such symptoms will not afterwards come on when their cause is weakened. Hence, the reason why compression can be distinguished from concussion of the brain when there has been an interval of sense between the receipt of the blow and the occurrence of the bad symptoms. Uiit, tlie distinction of the symptoms into primary and consecutive, cannot be m:u!e when concussion and extravasation exist together. Having nmde these few remarks on concussion and compression of the brain, I shall lu'xt introduce a few observations on contusions of the head and fractures of the skull, cases on wnith the most erroneous opinions have been entertained. Contusions of the head not unfrequently occa- sion a small kind of tumor, whicli is soft in the centre, but hard and resisting at the circum- ference, especially when the violence has been con- siderable. Now the ease with which the centre or seat of the extravasated fluid admits of being depressed, while the circumference remains hard and elevated, is extremely apt to give rise to the belief, that a fracture with depression has hap- pened. The true nature of this accident was first clearly explained by J. L. Petit; and, since his time, the proper cautions not to fall into a mistake concerning it have been laid down by the gene- rality of surgical writers. Often nothing is more obscure than the dia- gnosis of fractures of the cranium ; their exist- ence, indeed, can only be made out with certainty when they can be felt or seen. Thus a fracture of the skull, attended with a wound of the scalp, iind exposure of the bone, shows itself in the form of a fissure more or less wide and extensive, and taking various directions. The accident m iy also be known by the touch, even when the soft parts continue entire, particularly if the f:acture is accompanied with splinters, or the edges of the fissure are materially separated. When there are many splinters, entirely detached, a crepitus will likewise serve to explain the nature of the acci- dent ; but, unassisted by these symptoms, imparted to him by the sight, the hearing, or the touch, the practitioner cannot at once offer a decided opinion as to whether a fracture exists, or not. In order to procure more positive information, would it be right and judicious to make several incisions and uncover the bone ? But, here the surgeon would be embarrassed in the very com- mencement of his proceedings ; for, how would he be able to judge where the knife should be applied ? Why also should he resort to a useless and painful operation, which (to say the best of it) would only render the patient's cure more distant ? The symptoms, indicating compressioci of the brain, can alone justify an examination of the fracture. These symptoms also must be urgent and alarming ; for, when they prevail in a slight degree, bleeding and evacuations promise more benefit than any operation on the skull ; and con- sequently all examination of the part, supposed to be broken, must be unnecessary. Even when the cranium has been denuded, so that the sight can convey due information re- specting the solution of continuity in the bone, care must be taken not to be deceived by a su- ture, or by the groove of a vessel. In cases of doubt, a modern surgical author advises us to scrape the outside of the bone ; and he tells us, that, if after the removal of the external scale, the fissure yet appear, and a thread of blood be seen at its outer part, no doubt exists of its being a real fissure. As however nuiking this examination can answer no purpose, except with the view to de- termine the place where the trephine should be ap- plied, I cannot reconnnend the plan except where the symptoms positively render this information desirable. On the contrary, it appears to me that all examinations ol the bone, made seem- ingly from mere curiosity, and without any truo surgical object, should be deprecated ns rash and hurtful.