OPIUM. 397 liis ovvu puiut of sitflit, and to look into tlie eye I'loiu every possible direction. The binocular oplitiiiihnoscopes require the same Mi neral mnnai,'enicnt as llie monocular, and may I'l' fitted with mirrors of any surface, and with or « itliout a collecting lens. As usually made, they :ne only adapted for vertical illumination; but I l:iid that they will work equally well with lateral. 11 is evident, however, that binocular vision is of l. ss importance for the direct image; and I hardly think tiuit Zehender's instrument is likely to be ■ superseded. I'/te le/ises commonly sold tuitlt oplUhalmoscopes are altogether insufficient for the demands of prac lice. 1 have had the small clips removed from my instruments, and replaced by others large enough to carry lenses of the spectacle-box. By this plan a great variety is at command, and will be found highly useful. For the erect image the weaker concaves are often advantageous, and for the in- verted the common 12" ocular may be replaced by much higher powers. I frequently use a 5" ocular, in combination with a 4" object-lens. It must be remembered that the distance between the lenses must be equal to the sum of their focal lengths, and that hence every increase in the power of tlie ocular must bring the mirror nearer to the patient.] C. Bader. [OPIUM. The concrete juice obtained from the unripe capsules of the Papaver somniferum Opium is not only one of the oldest known medi cines, but it is perhaps without exception the most valuable drug in existence for therapeutical pur- poses. Its virtues were known alike to the Greeks and Rumans. Homer alludes to the niiKuf, or poppy growing in the gardens; Hippocrates dis tiiiguished the therapeutical action of the red from the white poppy; Dioscorides and Pliny alike dis- cussed meconium, as they called the juice we know as opium. The word opium is derived from the Greek OTToy, " which signifies the juice by way of emin- ence, as we call the Jesuits' bark ' the bark,' by way of eminence, because most useful and excel- lent." (Jones' iMi/sleries of Opium Revealed, 1700.) It is the juice derived from the unripe capsules or rind pods of the poppy head by incisions which are made horizontally and obliquely through the epicarp and sarcocarp of the capsules, care being taken not to penetrate the cavity lest any of the juice should run therein among the seeds, and so be lost. A white milky fluid exudes from the incisions in drops which, having thickened, Is, at the end of twenty-four hours, removed into wooden or earthen vessels, in which the juice is diligently •stirred until the different collections made are thoroughly inspissated, water or saliva being some- times added to keep up the moisture. The opium is finally dried without heat, usually by exposure to the sun, first in small cakes, then in masses which are enveloped in the poppy leaves. The chief of the order Papaveracea; is the Papaver somniferum, from which the opium is obtained as above described. There is, however, the red poppy or papaver rlicc is, which flowers in .Iinie or July, and abounds in our corn-fields. It has but slight narcotic property, and re(|uires no further descrip- tion here. Tlio Papaver somniferum or white poppy grows wild in .'\sia and Egypt, but is much cultivated in Ilindostan, Persia, Asia Miiu)r, Egypt, Europe, and also in England. Great quantities are gro.vn near Mitchani in Surrey for the sake of the poppy-heads for the English markets. The opium from abroad obtained as above de- scribed is a dark rich brown solid, the tint of which varies according to the locality it comes from .nnd the mode of drying it. For the purity of solid opium there is no one single test. The amount of morphia in it wmdil be the best, but the process to ascertain it would be far too expensive to be practical. Usually the colour, texture, and aroma are, to judges in the matter, criterions of the excellence or othervvise of the article. The varieties of opium are: I. Smyrna o^\\im. This is the Turkey or Levant opium of commerce, and usually considered the best commercial form. It yields more morphia and meconic acid than either Constantinople or Egyptian opium. From a pound of this opium eight or nine per rent, of morphia can be obtained. (Pelleiier''s account in Journ. de Pharin. xxi. 572.) II. Coiis/antinople opium varies more than the Smyrna in the amount of morphia it contains. Thus Guibourt says it contains only half as much as the Smyrna variet}--, whilst Christison has ob- tained fourteen per cent. (Journ. de Pharm xxi. 547.) III. Egyptian opium has a redder tinge than either of the preceding, nor does it blacken by keeping like either of the others. It varies much as to its strength, but usually contains less morphia than either of the preceding kinds. IV. Trehizond or Persian opium occurs in the form of cylindrical sticks, which by pressure the one against the other are usually somewhat angular. There is very little morphine in this form of opium^ which has a strong opiate odour, and is intensely bitter to the taste. V. Of Indian opium there are three varieties known in commerce, viz. the Malava, Benares, and Patna ; the two latter being so similar are con- sidered as one by Pereira under the head Bengal opium. 1. Bengal opium is imported in balls about three pounds weight. This variety very soon gets covered with mouldiness from exposure to the air and it contains much less morphia than does good Turkey opium. Garden Patna comes to this country in small thin square cakes. Malava opium 13 improving in quality, it comes over either in rounded cakes or balls enveloped in poppy heads or in fliittened cakes without any exterior covering- the morphia it yields is about one-third that fur- nished by Smyrna opium. VI. Emilifli opium, which occurs in flat cakes or balls enveloped with leaves, most resembles fine Egyptian opium. According to Hennell it con tains seven and a-half per cent, and to Morson four per cent of morphia. (I'ereira, vol ii n 2004.) ' • P- The constituents of opium are numerous and may be considered as follows : Morphia, narcotina codeia, narceine, meconine, thebaiiie, pseudo- morphia? meconic acid, brown acid, extractinc sulphuric acid, resin, fat, oil. gummy matter' caoutchouc, albumen, odorous principle (volatile oil ?) and lignin. (Pereira.) The chief constituents and those only which it IS deemed necessary here to give an account of are —morphia, narceine, codeine, narcotino, and the- banie. These all have properties essentially dif- ferent in their action iippi) the animal economy