RICI- iitero; Pinel has given a description of the skeleton of a ricl<ct3' fetus. I'lirthcr illustrations of the same fact may be found in the writings of Borde- nave, Soemmerring, Otto, Sartorius, and Lodt-r. {Fourcroy^s Journal.) Many specimens may also be seen in our Pathological Museums. [According to Gerdy, intra-uterine rickets may occur from some mishap to the mother during pregnancy, such as a blow or a fall, or from extreme misery, whether mental or bodily. Jenner, in his Lectures on Rickets {Med. Times Mid Gaz. 1860, 7ol. i. p. 415), states, however, that he has never met with a case of congenital rickets.] The most common period for the commence- ment of this disease is in children between the {iges of seven or eight months and two years, and it rarely begins before the child first at- tempts to walk. Mr. Wilson observes, that its origin has frequently been imputed to the effects of dentition; but he adds, that he has often known it make its appearance after this time, and that it not unfrequently attacks the spine a little while before puberty, and may do so even later. {On the Structure and Physiology of the Skeleton, &ic. p. 162.) [It very rarely commences though after the pe- riod of the second dentition.] The disease seems to consist of a virant of due firmness in the bones, in consequence of a defi- ciency in the phosphate of lime in their structure. [Bostock states that he found the earthy salts present in rickety bone in the proportion of i only, instead of which is the usual amount in the healthy state. {Mvd. Cldr. Trans, vol. iv.) Bec- querel met with great variation in the several spe- cimens which he examined; in some he found -J, in others \, and in others, again, as little as i of the phosphate of lime. {Traite des Maladies des En- fanis, 1842.)] The causes of the affection are involved in great obscurity. [It has been attempted to show that rickets has its origin in various diseases; thus, syphilis, cancer, scrofula, tubercle, scurvy, rheumatism, cretinism, fevers, visceral diseases, &c., have each been charged with causing it. Beylard(Op. cit. p. 27) states that it is sometimes hereditary, but Jenner disputes this.] Rickety subjects are often at the same time scrofulous; and this is, probably, the only reason for scrofula being accounted a cause of the other affection. [Stanley denies that scrofula and rickets are often associated {On Diseases of the Bones, p. 229); but their frequent coincidence is admitted by most other observers. The occurrence of tubercle with this disease, though occasional, is not common. (Rufz, Recherches sur le Rachitisme chez les Enfans, Gaz. il/er/. March l^M.—RoMtansky, Path. Anat. vol. iii. p. 174. Syd. Soc, translated by Moore.) Jenner states that rickets is absolutely unfavour- able to the development of tubercle. {Op. cit. p. 260.) Rickets appears to be the result of a de- ranged or imperfect nutrition, and therefore impro- per food, poverty, damp, cold, bad ventilation, in short, defective hygienic influences, conduce to the disease, so that it is much more common in large towns than in the country, and in the children of the poor than in those of the rich; for the same reason it not unfrequently accompanies or follows a diffi- cult dentition in weakly children. Stanley (O;^. ETS, cit. p. 218) considers tliat the disease is caused by a deficiency in the inorganic constituent of a bone, whilst its animal ingredient is in excess. Accord- ing to Simon, a rickety bone is so altered in its composition, that neither gelatine nor chondrine can be obtained from it by boiling. {Simon''s Animal Chemistry, translated by Day, Syd. Soc.) Jennei regards rickets as a general or diathetic disease, exclusively limited to children, and by far the most common and fatal of all the diatheses to which childhood is lialjle; it is rarely associated with other diseases of this class, and as a rule the youngest children in a family are the subjects of it, whilst the firstborn are healthy. It manifests itself by its eifects upon the bones, but it "is no more a disease of the bones than is typhoid fever a disease of the intestines." The morbid condi- tion consists in an excessive formation of the structures which precede or form the nidus for ossification, whilst there is a retardation or incom- plete performance of the ossifj-ing process, and a decrease in the amount of the earthy salts whereby softening of the bone takes place. {Op. cit. pp. 260-1.) According to Gerdy, rickets is an inflammatory lesion, although not purely so, being complicated bj' a special form of osseous degeneration which produces its own peculiar effects. He proposes to call the disease Rachitic Osteitis; and from a comparison of its sj'mptoms with those of scrofulous caries, he is of opinion that the two affections are not very dissimilar. {Op. cit. p. 325.) Rufz first described a soft reddish sponge-like material which he called iiponge fine, as existing between the end of a rickety bone and its epiphysis ; he considered this to be an unhealthy product, and to constitute the disease. {Gaz. Mtd. Mars 1834.) Guerin, who named this material t\\Qspongoid tissue {Mem. sur les caracieres generaux du Rachitisme, Paris, 1839), and Bouvier [Bull, de fAcad. de Med. 1836-37), are agreed with Rufz as to the patho- logical origin of this substance, and further demon- strated its presence not only between the epiphysis and the shaft, but beneath the periosteum forming a laj'er upon the surface of the bone, and even in- filtrating its tissue. Broca does not admit that the spongoid tissue is a morbid product, but states that it is always found in the development of bone from cartilage. When, in consequence of impaired nutrition, the ossific process is checked, an accumulation of this material takes place, constituting the condition known as rickets. This disease is, therefore, ac- cording to him, the result of a suspension of the regular and normal processes, by which calcareous matter is withheld from, or very sparingly supplied to, the growing bone. {Recherches sur quelqucs points de U'Anal. Path, du Radiitisme. Bull, de la Soc. Anat., Paris, 1852.)] Rickety children are usually of a bad, weak constitution, and their limbs and bones become bent in directions determined by the action of the muscles, and the weight and pressure which they have to sustain. When the affection is very ge- neral, the spine becomes shorter, and is curved in various directions; the breast becomes deformed, not only in consequence of the curv.iture of the spine, but l)y the depression of the ribs and projection of the sternum. The bones of the pelvis fall in- wards, and the os pubis generally approaches the sacrum. The clavicles become more bent and pro-