610 RECTOCELE. other. On eacli side, in front, and in the same line, thoru was a point, wliicli was tlie orificfi of tlie salivai-)' duct, soraewliat dil;itpd, and blocked up with a viscid mattor. Having very easily liassed a small probe into the orifices, a matter similar to white of egg made its escape. A small leaden probe was passed into each opening, and, two days afterwards, the sacs were emptied again, and two pieces of lead, somewhat larger, intro- dnced. The patient was advised to take out the pieces of lead every morning, empty the swelling, and then replace them. In a fortnight, the open- ings, having been kept continually dilated, had no tendency to close ; the saliva did not accumulate, and the ranulte never appeared again. Sabatier also employed a tent, or piece of bougie, with success. I attended a young lady who had a ranula, in which the plana of freely opening the cavity, of transfixing it with setons, of removing portions of the cyst, and of introducing into it lint wetted v/ith a strong solution of nitrate of silver, all failed. The latter experiment caused a great deal of pain, and some swelling of the glands of the neck. I therefore decided to try the effect of making a small puncture in the tumor, and keeping in it a very small silver canula, constructed with a little circular rim at its outer end, to prevent it from slipping into the sac. In about three weeks a cure was thus accomplished. The tube gave no inconvenience, and kept in its place remarkably well. Instead of a tube, Dupuytren preferred a little contrivance, termed Loicton a devieure, con- sisting of two thin elliptical metallic plates or but- tons, live or six lines broad in the greatest diameter, and joined together by a pedicle two or three lines in length, and the external surface of which plates was convex, the internal concave. _ A puncture tuo lines long havilig been made in the tumor about an inch from the point of the tongue, and \ts .contents discharged, one button is introduced with the aid of a paii^ of forceps into the cyst, and the other remains in the mouth. This little instrument may be worn without inconvenience as long as necessary, the fluid of the cyst regularly escaping between the connecting pedicle of the instrument and the sides of the opening. (See Clin. Chir. t. iii. p. 31G.) Boinet related, to the French Academy, a case, in which the swelling not only filled the whole mouth, but one half of the tumor projected out, and a cure could only be accomplished by ex- cision. The two upper incisor teeth, on the left side, were lodged in a depression observable there : and the canine tooth, of the same side, forced outward by the mass of the disease, had pierced the lip near its commissure. A fluid re- sembling mucus flowed from a narrow aperture at the lower part of the swelling. The tongue co\!ld not be seen, so much Avas it pushed backward, and for some time, the patient had only subsisted on liquid food, which he was first obliged to convey to the back of the throat with some mechanical contrivance. The four incisor teeth, two canine, and first grinders of the lower jaw, had been pushed out of their sockets, by the pressure of the swelling. The patient's aspect was alarming, and he was threatened with siillbcation. Extirpa- tion was deemed necessary, and performed with caution. The large cavity thus occasioned was filled with lint. The lower jaw being diseased. Boinet scraped some of its surface off, and covered the places with lint, either dry, or dipped in spirit of wine. Some exfoliations followed, and the fungous granulations which grew were repressed by proper applications. In three months the parts were healed in so regular a manner that the motion of the tongue was not in the least obstructed, and no defect continued, except the alteration of the voice, occasioned by the loss of teeth. Louis, in Mdd. de I'Acad. de Chir. t. iii. Sabatier, Mdd. Op^ratoire, t. ii. p. 19, &c. ed. 2. CaUiien, Systema Chirurgiie Hodierna;, vol. ii. p. 108, &c. Hafnia;, 1800. Lassus, Patholojcie Chir. t. i. p. 402,&c. 8vo. Paris, 1809. /J/c/«<e)-, Anlangsgr. der Wundaizii. b. iv. cap. 1. Gott. 1800. J. J. Slahl et J. F. E de Schoenerben, De Ranuli, sub Lingu^ speciali cuin Casu, Erford, 1734. Bresc/iet, in Repertoire d'Ana- tomie and h\ Journ. Univ. dcs Sciences M^d. Dc - cembre, 1817. J. P- ilali/aiync, Man. de M^d Opir. p. 463. 12mo. Paris, 1837. ed. 2. Baron Dupuytren, in Lemon's Orales de Clin. Chir. t. iii. 8vo. Paris, 1833, art. 11. RECLINATION. A term emploj-ed in Ger- j many to denote the operation of turning a cataract, so as to change the position of its anterior and posterior surfaces. (See Cataract.) [RECTOCELE. This terra has been applied to a protrusion of the rectum into the vagina— the posterior wall of the vagina being pushed belbre it as a covering. It occasionally happens, when the perinteura has been partially ruptured, or when, without any rupture, the perinroum and vaginal outlet have been so much dilated, or have become so much relaxed as not to aff^ord an adequate sup- '. port to the pelvic viscera, that dilatation of the i rectum and posterior wall of the vagina is gradually | induced, and those parts are protruded through the • vulva in the form of a tumor, which'is at first of small size, but which may by degrees become as large as, or larger than, the fist. To this condition the term vaginal reclocale has been applied by Malgaigne, who gave a detailed description of it. (See " Me'm. sur un Prolapsus do Rectum dans le Vagin," &c., Alhti. de I'Acud. Roy.de de iMCd. t. vii, p. 4U6. Paris, 1838.) It had, however, been previously noticed by Sabatier, who pointed out the difference between simple prolapse of the vagina and the prolapse of the rectum witii the vagina now imder consideration. It was also well known to Sir Charles Clarke, who in 1814 gave a clear and accurate description of it under the name procidentia vagi7ia;,\vh\\a he called the analogous condition in which the bladder and anterior wall of the vagina are protruded, procidentia vesica;. Such a nomenclature is confusing ; it is better therefore, to adopt the terms proposed by Mal- gaigne, of vaginal rectocele for the one case, and vaginal cystocele fi)r the other ; and to restrict the .term prolapse of the vagina to the descent of the vaginal membrane only, not involving the adjaceiu structures. This latter condition, if we except those cases in which it is associated with prolapse of the uterus, is of extremely rare occui^ rence. The vaginal cystocele has been described in this Dictionary under the heading of Bladhkr, Prolapsus of. , It should be understood that in rectocele there is no displacement of the entire rectum ; its poste- rior surface maintains its normal relation with the sacrum and coccyx ; its anterior surface only is involved, and becomes dilated into a pouch, Avh-ch carries the vagina before it as a covering. ^V hen