612 SPINE, CURT ATURES OF. •wliich occurs more frequently than is generally supposed. It is in congenital dislocation of hnth liips that extreme incurvation of the lumbar region takes place, as a compensative effort to preserve the equilibrium of the body, disturbed by the tilting of the pelvis which necessarily results from the abnormal position of the heads of the thigh bones. 4. Either coexisting with destructive disease of the lumbar vertebraj in the early stage, or as a consecutive curve after destructive disease has become arrested, and angular curvature, i.e. pos- terior projection of one or more spinous processes, produced in the middle or lower dorsal regions. In such cases the lordosis in the lumbar region is necessary to preserve the equilibrium of the body, and is, of course, persistent through life. 5. As a constant effect of anchylosis of the hip-joint, with the thigh in a flexed position. After strumous disease of the hip-joint, rheumatic inflammation, and several other affecticms, anchy- losis of the hip-joint, either ligamentous or bony, frequently takes place, with the femur in a flexed position, in most cases at an angle of about forty- five degrees, but sometimes at a right angle with the pelvis. The angle is generally much greater than is apparent at first sight, because in standing or walking, the patient brings the foot to the ground, by increasing the natural curvature of the spine in the loins, and in these positions, therefore, lordosis is produced, but it is more or less com- pletely removable when the patient sits down. Jn such cases we hftve a greatly increased amount of flexibility of the lumbar region. TREATMENT. Surgically speaking, lordosis occurring in the lumbar region is of very little importance, as in its worst forms it is only a part of a more serious affection, and seldom becomes the subject of treatment; bnt it may sometimes assist us in the difficult diagnosis of destructive disease oc- curring in the lumbar vertebrse, and sometimes, though rarely, it may become the subject of special treatment. In connection, however, with the treatment of the diseases, such as rickets and caries, which sometimes produce this form of cur- vature, special attention may be directed to a few practical points. In the first class, above described, viz. that dependent upon natural configuration or peculiarity, either of family or race, of course there could be no attempt at surgical interference. In the second class, the rachitic form, no special treatment is indicated, but our attention must be directed to the means of arresting the general affection, and thus either preventing the consecutive deformities, or diniinishu)g their severity. In the third class, i.e. lordosis in cases of con- genital dislocation of the hip joint, it is doubtful whether any permanent diminution of the spinal curvature can be effected by mechanical means, though it has been attempted, and with some ap- penrance of temporary benefit. Possibly the lor- dosis may be diminished by the constant use of a spinal instrument from early childhood to the completion of growth, but as the hip-joint articu- lations must remain in their abnormal condition, th • permanent advantage obtained by such means is not likely to be considerable. In the fourth class, i.e. lordosis e.\istii)g durin the progress of destructive disease in the lumbar region, or as a consecutive curve after destructive disease lias sub^ided and angular curvature been produced in the middle or lower dorsal regions, there can be no doubt of the great advanUige of mechanical support during the progress of caries or destructive disease in any region of the spine. This treatment will be found equally applicable to all stages of caries or destructive disease of the spine, from its commencement, which we may in most cases diagnose before any angular projection has taken place ; and even when the destructive process is evidently advancing, provided the patient be able to bear the support, and is disposed to walk. The mechanical support enables such pa- tients to walk about with comfort, and does not in any way interfere with, but essentially promotes, the proper constitutional treatment of the disease. During periods of increased pain, such as may occur in the stage of abscess, confine ment to the bed is dictated by the patient's feelings, but as soon as the child (most of these cases are seen in children) is disposed to walk again, he should be allowed to do so. In the fifth class, i.e. lordosis consecutive to hip- joint disease, the curvature is also a natural com- pensating effort to maintain the equilibrium of the body, and there are no indications for surgical interference, LORDOSIS IN DORSAL REGION. Lordosis may also occur in the dorsal region, bnt to a much less extent than in the lumbar region. In the former it is frequently met with, as a consecutive condition to caries, or destructive disease, after angular curvature has been produced either in the lower cervical, or in the lower dorsal and lumbar regions. Above or below the seat of disease, a flattening and sometimes a deep sinking- in of the dorsal vertebrae frequently occurs. No surgical importance, however, attaches to this form of curvature; but there is another form of lordosis occurring in the dorsal region, of con- siderable importance in a diagnostic point of view, to which attention should be especially directed, viz. the sinking-in or depression of the spinous processes, which occurs in the dorsal region in some cases of double lateral curvature of tlie spine. The surgical interest which attaches to this deviation arises, not from its existence in severe cases of lateral curvature, but from the fact that it frequently occurs before any lateral deviation of the spinous processes takes place, and therefore before any lateral curvature has become obvious externally. In such cases, some slight prominence of the shoulder is generally the reason of the surgeon being consulted, and, finding no later.d deviation of the apices ol the spinous processes, he usually gives a favourable opinion of the case. The lordosis probably does not amount to more than a loss of the natural posterior curvature of the spine in the dorsal region, i. e. a (lattening of the back, and a straight appearance of the spine, which he regards as of no importiince. The pro- minence of the shoulder, however, depends upon slight rotation of the bodies of the vertehra', and, in such a case, intirmil curmture of the spine already exists. Souje addiiimial confirmation of this view will be fouiul in the fact that the angles of the ribs, on the side corresponding to the pro-