306 OPHTHALMOSCOPE is vlaeeil with his hnck to llie s«n, and the ex- amination 18 conducted in the usual manner. Binocular Ophthalmoscopes.—77ie Binocular Oph- ihahnoscope of Giraud-Fctdon.—At the time when all optical instruments: spectacles,telescopes,micro- scopes, stereoscopes, and so forth, had been success- fully constructed in accordance with the physiologi- cal principle of binocular vision, the ophthalmoscope was still left to stand alone. The law of its action, that the rays of light emerging from the eye return in the track of their incidence, seemed to present an insurmountable obstacle to the at- tainment of the conditions of binocular vision. Dr. Giraud-Fenlon, however, in considering the position of the actual inverted aerial image formed between the ophthalmoscopic object-lens and the observer, was led to inquire why the rays diverging from this image should not be seen as readily with both eyes as with one. He found the difficulty to depend upon -the distance to which it would be necessary for the observer to retire. If the centres of the observer's eyes were from 2" to -2^" apart, the focal length of the objective 2" and the diameter of the pupil of the observed eye 3" , he observer's eye would require to be 20^'from the image. If the pupillary diameter were only i , the other elements of the calculation remaining the same, the distance would have to be increased to five feet. It is apparent that, even in the former case, from loss of light and diminution of the visual angle, no details of the fundus oculi would be discernible. ., , , . -.i, Dr Giraud-Fenlon next provided himselt with a concave mirror of about 30 centimetres focus, and as large as that of the ordinary laryngoscope. In its horizontal diameter he made an oblong slit, 7 centimetres in length, and 6 millimetres in breadth, through which both eyes could look at once. By placing a lamp above and behind the patient, in a vertical plane with the eye to be ex- amined, the pupil of which must be fully dilated, an observer may see the optic disc, say with the richt eye, in the ordinary way. After a while he will see it also with the left eye, the two images partly overlapping one another. The two images thus obtained have a great tendency to separate and to vanish behind the pupillary margin. By great practice, and very extreme convergence of the ocular axes, it is some- times possible to unite them, and to produce a stereoscopic effect. , , , vi „ r Having thus theoretically solved the problem of binocularophthalmoscopy. Dr. Giraud-Fenlon sought to render his discovery available in practice. M. Nachet, jun., had long before constructed a micro- scope in such a manner that the actual image formed by its objective was divided by a system ot prismR, and presented at once to both.eyes ot a spectator. Acting upon this principle, Dr. Giraud-Fenlon placed behind the mirror two rhombs of glass with their edges meeting on the vertical diameter of the opening, and their surfaces ground, to afford a complete double relrnction at angles of 46". By this means the lays procecdnig from the actual image of the fundus oculi W( re di- vided, and, like those of stereoscopic pictures, were easily so united by the aid of lenses or prisms, as to afford an appearance of relief. If the mirror and the observer's eyes are now brought nearer to the patient, and the instrument fitted with prismatic dccc/ntrcd convex ocular glasses, as in the common stereoscope, the image assumes great magnitude. The eye under in- spection disappears from view, and there only remains an aiirial picture, relatively of immense size, "any description of which would be inade- quate, and would appear exaggerated." From the extent of the image, and according to the well- known property of the convex glass, required at an objective, the whole surface will present an appearance of anterior convexity. As already mentioned, the lamp for this ex- amination is placed above and behind the patient, so that the rays p;iES over his head. The mirror is attached to a horizontal bar turning on pivots upon the horizontal box that contains the rhombs, and no lateral movements are required for the necessary illumination. The rhombs must be kept perfectly horizontal, and the eyes of observer and patient must be on the same level. In this ophthalmoscope the distance of the actual image from the observer is less, by half the dis- tance between the eyes, than in a monocular in- strument. The mirror may, therefore, have a shorter focal length than in the latter, and the examination may be made from a nearer point. Myopic observers require simple ocular prisms of 7° or &°. Hypermetropic, or presbyopic, require convex lenses,'decentred by about one centimetre, which exert, moreover, a considerable magnifying power. For the examination of the erect image, the mirror must be brought close to the eye, and the convex oculars replaced by concaves of from 6" to 10" focal length. Both kinds are decentred, and are placed, the concaves with their thin edges in- wards, the convexes with their thin edges outwards. In Dr. Giraud - Fenlon's instrument, as made originally, there was no provision for altering the distance'between the ocular openings. The instru- . ment was altogether useless unless its width accurately corresponded to the distance between the eyes of the observer. A slight deviation from the proper width produced double images, and a lartrer deviation altogether excluded one eye from the visual act, and reduced the instrument to a monocular ophthalmoscope of inferior illuminatin:r power. The exact fit required was not easily obtained, and especially in this country, wbera there was little power of selecting from a stock, was sometimes altogether unattainable. It followea that many observers failed to realize my stereo- scopic effects ; and that many doubt, were cast upon the value of Dr. Giraud-Fenlou's beautiful and ingenious invention. These doubts were, however, in a great degree set at rest by an improvement, which consists m leaving one of the rhombs entire, > A dividing the other into two portions, the outer of which is moveable, and is governed by a screw. Ihe ap- parent positions cf the two images formed by the. rays which come from the aerial 'niage, is thus placed peifectly under the command of the spec- tator, and any instrument may be adjusted to meet the wants of various observers. Murray and Heath's adjusting hnocular C^^^^^ thalmosa,pe.-At the same time .'^^ ^r M^^^ Fenlon was employed in contriving the imp oved 1 adjusting form of his own instrument, ,t was most lappily suggested by Mr J. /ach riali Lau- r^co lhat^he division of the rays might be • IVectcd by four small mirrors, the two central ones