94 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTIONS. Thusj the treatment ia confined to the bowel below the obstruction, such being the indication from the peculiar nature of the lesion. Purga- tives by the mouth are by no means to be em- ployed, since they cannot but assist in the main- tenance and increase of the affection, by exciting useless and injurious peristalsis. Supposing the disease to persist, and with the knowledge of the fact that, notwithstanding the accession of inflanv mation, ulceration, and sloughing, nature occa- sionally works a cure, the practitioner should have a sufficiency of resolution and moral courage to enable him to resist the temptation to employ active measures; he should know how to wait, and give nature the opportunity of doing that which his art cannot avail to effect. But he may assist nature by palliative treatment, by arrest- ing or checking excessive inflammation by_ the local application of leeches, by the free adminis- tration of opium, and by supporting the strength of his patient with nourishing enemata. In the early stage, copious enemata are of great use, purgatives always injurious; in the later stage, enemata even may be injurious, by interfering with the process of repair, which can alone afford the sufferer a chance of life. The most absolute rest in bed should be maintained by the patient, who should not be allowed to move his trunk in the least degree by his own efforts, lest, by dis- turbing any existing effusions of lymph, thrown out to isolate and repair the-lesion, extravasatioii of the intestinal contents and a fatal peritonitis ensue. For a similar reason, physical examina- tion of the abdomen should be conducted with the greatest delicacy and caution. Inflation.—This method dates from the time of Hippocrates, and is recommended by Haller {Physiol. Corporis Humani, tom. vii. p. 95). Like injections of water, it must be resorted to at an early stage of the malady to be of service. It should also induce extreme distension of the bowels, although causing great suffering_ to the patient, and may be repeated once or twice with intervals of a few minutes : these intervals being employed by the surgeon in kneading and manipu- lating the abdomen. For its performance a glystcr-pipe and common bellows will suffice, but preference should be given to the double-action enema syringe. This instrument, resting on the edge of a jug or other convenient vessel, half filled with hot water, and worked in that position, will transmit warm air into the bowel. During the performance of the operation the anus must be carefully closed by clothes and compression of the nates. The success of the operation will probably be recognised either by tlie patient experiencing a sensation as of something giving way, or by gurglings, heard both by the patient and attendants. (See Case Ot/ Ji. Cousins, Brit. Mod. Journ. June 21, 1862.) Flidd il/crc^jr?/.—Although this agent introduced by the mouth cannot but in all probability add to the lesion present, we believe it might possibly be of use at an early period when introduced per anum, should enemata and inflation fail m the accomplishment of the wished-for object I liR patient, should lie over upon the riglit side witli the buttocks well elevated on pillows, or by an inclined plane. A tube is to be introduced per anum to the extent of many inches, when the mer- cury may be poured through it into the gut, and when it is supposed to have reached the right bend of the colon, the subject should gradually be raised to the sitting and standing posture, with the hope that the metal may gravitate towards the ccecum, the possible recipient of the invagination.] Question of Operation.— If the equivocal and uncertain nature of the symptoms of volvulus were not sufficient to deter us from undertaking an ope- ration, which, under the most favourable circum- stances, could not fail to be extremely difficult, and imminently hazardous to the patient, the state of the invaginated parts would entirely banish all thoughts of such an imprudent attempt; for the different folds of the intestine often become agglu- tinated to each other, so that they can hardly be withdrawn after death {Simpson's Ediii. Med. Essays, vol. vi.'; Hevin's iih Obs.; Malcolm's Phijsicaland Lit. Essays, vol. ii. p. 360; Hunter, Med. and Chir. Trans.; and Soemmenny in Trans. ofBaillie's Morh. Anat); nay, the stricture on the intussuscepted part may cause it to inflame and even mortify. {Soemmering. T. Blizard, Case in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. i. p. 170.) It is very clear that in this state of parts the operation of gastro- toray would be totally inadmissible, even if the symptoms could clearly indicate the nature of the case, an d the affected part could be easily reached and examined. However, in the Transylmnian Journal of Me- dicine may be found a case, in which Dr. John R. Wilson undertook the operation with success. The patient was a young negro, who had laboured for seventeen days under bilious colic and stercoraceous vomiting, in defiance of every remedy. An incision five inches in length was made in the direction of the linea alba. The portion of intestine involved in the stricture was found to be in the ileum. The bowel was grasped above and below the ob- struction, and, after several efforts, the adhesion gave way. The patient soon afterwards voided the mercury which he had taken on the previous day, and rapidly recovered. [The peculiar character of the lesion, and its pos- sible consequences, whether resolution, casting off the invagination, or a fatal issue, all tend to deter the practitioner from resorting to gastrotoniy as a means of relief. {Portal, Cours d"Anatomic Medi- cate, vol. V. p. 247.) The supposed lesion, if left to itself, has been believed to right itself spontane- ous! v; while, if it persist, so large a per-centagc re- cover from its immediate effects as to enable the surgeon to hold out the hope of recovery by a casting off of the invagination. Should the conse- quences be fatal, the condition of the parts impli- cated in the affection show how useless would be the attempt to endeavour to restore the invagina- tion to its natural relative position, and this, too, without taking into consideration the probably fatal result of gastrotoniy itself. Ere an operation could sucgest itself to the mind of the surgeon the disease would have done its worst. There will be at least adhesion between the serous surfaces of the inner and middle folds, itself an obstacle to the withdrawal of the invagination; but more than this, the bowel above tiie Ifsion, distended and irritated by the long presence of freces, has become inilamed, perliaps ulcerated, and all but perforated at certain points while tiie probability of exlr.ava- sation is prevented bv a glueing together of the adia- cent and diseased viscera, and by a copious eftusion of protecting and conservative lymph. Again, the