390 OPHTHALMOSCOPE. foreign ones that I have Been have been at once dear and bad. The threads of their screws are always defective; the parts that should be steady quiver and shake, the parts that should glide easily stick fast, the parts that should be immove- able slide downwards, in tardy and reluctant obe- dience to the law of gravitation. By the time that all the faulty portions have been replaced in this country, the "instrument will be for more costly than one'originally of English construction, made to work "as smoothly and easily as a microscope from the first. 1 trust my readers will take warning from this experience, I have found that the most convenient method of usiu" a stationary ophthalmoscope is to attach it to a^small table constructed for the purpose. My own has a surface of about a foot square, and is supported by a strong central column heavily weighted at the base. In practice, this arrange- ment possesses many advantages over the corner of a larger table. The small foreign instruments are generally cheaper than the English, often much cheaper, and, if of simple construction, are fully equal to them. The hand-ophthalmoscopes of Liebreich, Coccius, and Zehender, are largely imported from Berlin; and may be obtained of excellent quality from any instrument-maker or optician. The binocular in- strument of Dr. Giraud-Fenlon, is made chiefly by MM. Nachet et fils ; and in' consequence of the number they manufacture certainly cheaper than elsewhere. Messrs. Murray and Heath's instrument has been made only by themselves. The difference between the effects produced by binocular and monocular ophthalmoscopes is very considerable, and, for a beginner or an ine.xpe- rienced observer, is very important. In order to estimate this difference correctly, it must be re- membered that the difficulties of ophthalmoscopy are twofold. There is, first, the difficulty of seeing, and then there is the difficulty of interpret- ing wliat is seen. Of these, the first is much the same with all instruments ; but the binoculars reduce the second to a minimum. In using the monocular ophthalmoscope of Coccius or Liebreich for the inverted image, in spite of abundant light and perfect definition, the details of the picture appear to be all in the same plane. The vessels of the retina can be distinguished from those of the choroid by colour and direction, but not by any appreciable difference in their position. The depressions formed by choroidal atrophy or pos- terior staphyloma, and the elevations irom sub- retinal hemorrhage or effusion, present colours which contrast with those of the general field, but scarcely any appearances by which, prior to reflection, their "sunken or raised position can be positively determined. Even the cupped disc, the most marked of the surface changes of the fundus oculi, betrays itself chiefly by the bending of the vessels at its margin, and", by inexperienced obser- vers, is often mistaken for an elevation. It may fairly be said, I think, tliat the limited power of one eye to furnish data for correctly estimating relief, is the chief source of difficulty in the inter- pretation of ophthalmoscopic appearances. With a good binocular ophthalmoscope this difficulty vanishes. The difference between the appearances presented by the two methods, is like the difference between the appearance of a tree growing in n field and a tree painted in n picture. Not only is the depressed optic nerve immediately recognised as an unmistakable cup or cubity, but even small effusions of blood or lymph, or serum, on the one hand, or patches of atrophy on the other, present aspects that are conclusive with regard to their relations to the general level of the field. The vessels of the retina, too, are seen to stand out from, and to be distinctly on a plane anterior to, those of the choroid ; which, again, in young light eyes, with good illumination, may be distinctly traced to different strata of the mem- brane. For those surgeons who have obtained a thorough mastery of the older forms of the instrument, and with whom the process of eliminating optical illusions, or of using the data by which relative position can be determined, has become almost in- stinctive, the binocular ophthalmoscope is only so far advantageous as the picture it presents is more beautiful. But for less skilful observers it is of high practical value. There are few ophthalmo- scopic questions more important or haying a greater bearing upon diagnosis and prognosis, than to determine whether a given mass of pigment be infiltrated among the retinal tissues, or deposited beneath the retina, in the choroide. It is of equal importance to be able to recognise with certainty the commencement of serous sub-retinal effusion. By binocular vision, all these conditions can be determined at a glance ; by monocular, if at all, only after protracted and possibly hurtful exami- nation. It follows, I think, that, by observers who desire to learn the use of the ophthalmoscope quickly, and to avoid errors of interpretation, after having had but small experience, the binocular in- strument should be unhesitatingly preferred. For the erect image the binocular ophthalmo- scope possesses little advantage over the older forms, and even when adapted for lateral illumi- nation, it is not so easy of use. For this purpose, therefore, it is not calculated to supersede the ophthalmoscope of Zehender ; but it is still quite available in the hands of an observer who will take the trouble to master the difficulties of manipu- lation. For the erect image, it will generally be needful slightly to approximate the prisms. The respective merits of the different binoculars have been sufficiently noticed in the former section. Before purchasing a binocular ophth-almoscope, it is prudent to make certain of the possession of binocular vision. This is not universal, and those in whom it is wanting, are often unconscious of their deficiency. The test is very snnple: the eyes should be directed towards a candle-llame, or other convenient small object, at a distance of eight or ten feet, and a prism of 16° or 20°, with its angle towards the nasal side, should be held before one eve. With binocular vision the result will be either two images of the object, or an internal strabismus verv manifest to a bystander. If neither of these consequences follow, a binocular ophthalmoscope will be wholly useless. With regard to the choice of a monocular instru- ment, I find myself compelled to diller from Dr. Zander in two particulars. First, with rcgarJ to the utility of the simple mirror ; and, secondly, with regard to the superiority of a concave mirror for the inverted image. My own earliest attempts at ophthalmoscopic investigation were made with the simple mirror, the so-called instrument of .■\n.onostakis. 1 have long since wholly dis-