perineal section, has been already described in its proper place. The second method of opening the urethra from the perineum, viz., by an inciMon made altogether behind the stricture, has been long resorted to by surgeons for the purpose of relieving retention of urine. Of late years it has been recommended in this country by Mr. Guthrie and by Mr. Listen. Tlie latter writes: "When it is found impossible to penetrate the strictured part of the urethra with the catheter, and no abscess has formed, the proper practice is," as follows ..." the forefinger of the left hand is introduced into the rectum; a straight bistoury having been pushed into the mesial line, with its back towards the bowel, is carried on- wards to the apex of the prostate, and in withdraw- ing the instrument the dilated passage is opened to the point of a catheter passed down to the ob- structed point. This is preferable to puncture of tlie bladder in any situation ; but the cases re- quiring either proceeding will be rare indeed, if the mode of using a catheter is properly under stood." {Piact. Surg., 4th ed., p. 484.) The third mode is that of puncturing the bladder. Tliis is performed in three ways:—by the rectum, above the pubes, and through the pubic syniphysis. 1st. The Puncture hy the Rectum.—The present usage is to open the bladder either by the rectum or above the pubes. Each operation has been a favourite one in its time. An effort has of late been made, mainly by Mr. Cock, of Guy's Hospital, to test the value of the former method, and during the last few years he has punctured the bladder per rectum, some forty times at least, and has studied the operation on a large scale. Mr. Cock believes It to be one fraught with less danger, and that it IS more easy of performance, than any other which IS adopted for the n-lief of retention. The chief objections which have been raised aganist it are, the averred liability to the occur- rence of abscess between the rectum and the liladder as an after result, the persistence of fistulous opening there; the infliction of injury upon the seminal vesicles, leading to inflammation of these and the neighbouring parts, including the testicle; and the danger of perforating the peri- toneum with the trocar, and thus setting up inflam- mation of that membrane. Ail these results have undoubtedly been occasionally met with. That of wim..ding the peritoneum appears to be the least likely to happen if ordinary care only be employed. The bladder in rising carries its peritoneal coat along with it; and it has been observed in the examination of those cases where the parts have been preserved aftiT death, that the puncture has almost invariably fallen short of the peritoneal I'llH, an inch, or an inch and a half. The vesiculce scniinales, or the vas deferens, appear to escape fi-niewhat less frequently. Injury to either of them is a less serious matter than to the former. The operator, however, must carefully endeavour to maintain the middle line in order to avoid them. But modern practice has been very free from these complications, and there is now no doubt that the ' dangers of the rectal operation have been over- ' rated. In the forty cases reported by Mr. Cock, • seven or eight deaths followed the operation; but i tliere is no evidence that these were caused by it. i In five c:isefl, the patients had suflered from stric- 1 ture for very many years, mid in all, advanced URINE, RETENTION OF. 861 renal disease existed : in none does it appear to have arisen from any of the causes hitherti alleged to be sources of danger. Further, it is unquestionable that the immediate result of the operation is so niitcli improvement in the condition of the urethra, in consequence of the urine having ceased to pass by and iiritateit, that the reduction of the stricture by dilatation may be much more rendily accomplished than before. The mode of performing this operation is as fol- lows :—Having had the rectum emptied by means of an enema, place the patient on his back in the position fur lithotomy, and let him be firmly held by two assistants, not tied. Oil, and introduce the left forefinger into the rectum, ascertaining the size and situation of the prostate, beyond whicii the tip of the finger should be fairly carried, so as to define its posterior boundary; not always an easy thing to do when the bladder is much dis- tended, since its neck becomes then considerably elongated. Fluctuation should be felt by it there, communicated, through the contents of the bladder', Irorn a tap made on the hypogastric region, unless the viscus be very contracted indeed, in which case the performance of the operation is of doubtful propriety, since the point of the trocar may enter' the opposite coat of the bladder, from absence of the requisite amount of distension, or do some other mischief. Having found the spot bevond the prostate at wliich fluctuation is most distinctly perceived, and having directed an assistant to sup- port firmly the lower part of the abdomen with both hands, so as to press down and steady the bladder towards the rectum, a well-curved trocar seven or eight inches long, should be carried alone the hnger, directed strictly in the middle line to the part indicated, the handle well depressed, and the point carried through the coats of the rectum and bladder, until it is felt free in the cavity of the latter. The canula must be carefully kept in situ, while the stilet is withdrawn, and afterwards retained there by means of a bandage and tapes I he length of time it should be allowed to remain will depend on the amenability of the stricture to treatment. If this yields, the urine will readily pass through the natural channel, and the opening in the rectum will very quickly close. If there are any reasons for keeping the rectal opening patent for more than two or three days, it is neces- sary to substitute an elastic catheter for the silver canula. The catheter may be slipped throuo-h the latter, so as not to lose the route. I have h-id occasion to keep it open in one case for three and in another /or six weeks, in this wav. There are certain conditions which'must be held to contra-indicate the performance of this opera T\y Jl"' 11""'"; °\ fl'"^"""io>^ ^vhen examming the bladder thnmgh the rectum, as already noticed Ihis may be occasioned not only by a contracted b adder, but by a considerably enlarged condition ot the prostate or by tumor connected with it Ihe incompatibility of the employment of the tro- car from the rectum in such cases will be sufficiently 2nd. Puncture of the Bladder above tlie Pubes — The mode of performing it is as follows :—The patient being placed in a half-sitting, half-recliuino- pusition, and the pubes shaved, a vertical iimision 0 the integument is made directly above the svni physis pubis, about an inch and a half or two inches ni length at the surface; this is to be carried down