267 NOTES ON THE CUBING OF MEAT. he withdraws before sending the dish to table, the conse- quence of which is that you find a strange ugly cavity in the centre of the tongue which spoils every slice you cut from it. If you want to straighten a tongue properly, you must place it while hot upon a clean board,—the lid of a packing case for instance,—in the position in which tongues are always presented to you in England; pin it down to the board by driving a strong steel carving fork through the root end, stretch it straight, and secure the tip by a sharp skewer also driven into the board : support the tongue in shape by weights on either side, and over the top of it, and let it get cold. When quite cold, you may release it, glaze it, let the glaze set, and then serve the tongue. "Glaze” is not difficult to achieve if proper care be exercised during its making. You must boil down some clear strong gravjr, like that laid down for “ aspic jelly,” and reduce it until it begins to thicken sufficiently to coat the spoon with which you are stirring it. Constant stir- ring is downright essential to prevent the glaze sticking to the bottom of the sauce-pan, and burning. As soon as satisfied with its consistency, pour it into a small jar. When cold, the glaze will solidify like hard jelly. When required for use, place the.jar in which you have set it in the bain-marie and let the jelly melt; then dip a brush into it, and paint the surface of the tongue, or joint, over thoroughly; when dry, the appearance will be that of a clear varnish. Colour the gravy beforehand witli caramel accord- ing to the tint required. Ramasamy spoils his glaze by thickening it with flour and butter, and even this he lays on far too thickly. Glaze should not be at all thick. Use a brush called by artists in oils “ a softening brush.” To cure a hump, brisket, aitch-bone, or piece of the silver side of beef, proceed as recommended for the tongue; you will probably require double the quantity of ingre- dients, but the principles are the same. Smoking is, of