CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 340 wallah, but they require very delicate handling, because they are almost always overdone. The really nutritious part of a tin of Australian meat is the gravy that surrounds it. Ramas&my knows this, so beware of unrighteous deal- ing, see the tin opened, and have every atom of the gravy strained off into a howl. In cold weather, during such nights as you have in the Deccan during December and January for instance, the gravy in these tins becomes a jelly, so before you open one, set it on the fire in a sauce-pan sur- rounded by hot water for ten minutes or so; then open it, and strain the gravy from the tin into a howl; turn the meat out carefully upon your sieve, and pour some hot water gently over it; catch the water in a howl below the sieve, and add it to the gravy. Now, the gravy of a two- pound tin of beef will, as a rule, give you an excellent stock for two basins of soup :—skim the fat that may rise to its surface, add water to the extent required and put it into a sauce-pan with a bag of dried sweet herbs, an onion cut into quarters, any vegetables you can spare, some pepper- corns, a pinch of spice, and salt according to the quantity : simmer this gently to extract the flavour of the things you have added, and in about an hour you will have an excellent beef broth, quite fit to be served as gravy soup, with macca- roni, vermicelli, a couple of poached eggs, or Julienne, grat- ed cheese accompanying ; a table-spoonful of marsala will be a grateful finishing stroke. Or it may be thickened like mock-turtle, and served with forcemeat balls. The meat should be treated in this way:—choose the nicest looking pieces, trim them neatly, and if of a fair size, brush them over with egg, bread-crumb them, and brown them in the oven, serving a good sharp sauce,—tomato, soubise, or piquante for instance, with them. Or you can cut the meat into collops, and hash them very gently in some of their own gravy carefully flavoured. Lastly, you can mince it and serve it in many nice ways (vide page 185).