63 REGARDING OUR FISH. papers, broil over a fast clear fire, and serve with a nice sharp brown sauce like sauce Robert. Take care that the bars of your grid-iron are well oiled, for they are apt to burn delicate morsels like fillets of fish en papillotes. Fish of fairly good size can be roasted “cl la broche. The method is recommended for mullet, and all fish whose shape adapts itself, as it were, to the spit. Stuff the fish, wrap it in oiled paper, tie it carefully to the spit, and baste continually with melted butter and white wine. Remove the paper before serving. A good cut of large seer fish, say three or four pounds from the centre, may be similarly wrapped in paper and roasted on the spit. The paper must be well oiled and sprinkled over with chopped fines herbes. After having removed the paper, glaze the fish with Matelote sauce, and serve with some of the same in a boat. The Bouillabaisse may be attempted at Madras with a result sufficiently satisfactory to warrant my being bold enough to record a simple recipe for it, adapted from that of the “ G. C.” as follows :— Take any sort of small fish, such as small pomfret, whitings, soles, mullets, or rob&l,—the greater the variety the better,—and for two pounds of mixed fish, slice up two Bombay onions, two fairly large tomatoes emptied of their seeds and cut into quarters, and one carrot; prepare a couple of slices of lime with the pithy skin cut off, a bag containing six cloves, a dozen pepper corns, a clove of garlic, and the peel of a lime pared as finely as possible ; a salt-spoonful of saffron, a tea-spoonful of salt, and one pod of capsicum sliced, will also be wanted : put the whole into a stew-pan, and add to it a wine-glass of salad oil, one of chablis, and a pint and a half of cold water, or, better far, fish stock: boil for about half an horn’, and, just before serving, add a heaped up table-spoonful of freshly-chopped curled parsley. The parsley is absolutely indispensable. Serve the fish, in a deep dish, with some of the broth