BRAISING AND ROASTING. 115 side, whilst you make the best broth you can from the bones you cut out, and the trimmings. This should occupy the cook all morning. Having obtained all you can from the bones, strain off your broth, let it get cool, skim off the fat, and now proceed to cook the meat. Melt some butter or fat at the bottom of your stew-pan first, and turn the meat about in till it begins to take colour, then add your broth (a pint and a half or thereabouts for 3 lbs of meat will be found enough) with two carrots, four good sized onions, two ounces of celery, a tea-spoonful each of marjo- ram and thyme, pepper, and salt : let it come to the boil, then simmer gently for about two and a half hours. Turn the meat, add a couple of onions, and (says Gouff6) a gill of brandy, let the pan simmer for an hour and a half more,— keeping live coals on the lid throughout the process,—and the braise will be complete. Lift out the joint, and keep it on a hot dish, whilst you strain off the gravy remaining in the stew-pan,—it will be half the amount you originally poured in, but much stronger. You can now send up the joint with the gravy plainly poured round it ; or you-can pass the vegetables, with which the meat was braised, through the sieve, thicken the gravy, and add the pulp of the vegetables to it. Observe that the placing of the live coals on the lid is reserved for the latter part of the jiirocess. In this manner you can successfully dress a leg of mut- ton, a loin of mutton, a small sirloin, a piece of the ribs or a fillet of beef, in fact all small joints. Larding with strips of fat bacon will vastly improve the braise, especially when the meat is very lean ; and if you can make some strong broth from any meat and bones, or if you can spare a little stock from the soup-kettle, you need not bone the joint. The vegetables, &c., should, in this case, be boiled in the stock separately, wine should be added to flavour it, and the joint should he cooked in the mirepoix thus made.