192 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. sloped outwards. A pat of butter was melted in the pan, sufficient in quantity to thoroughly lubricate the whole of its surface, and leave a coating of moisture about an eighth of an inch deep over all. As soon as ready, quite burning hot,—the butter having ceased to splutter, and beginning to brown,—with one good stir round, the mixture was pour- ed into the pan. At the moment of contact, the underpart of omelette formed, this was instantly lifted by the spoon, and the unformed portion allowed to run beneath it; the left hand, holding the pan, and playing it, as it were, from side to side : With one good shake, the pan (in less than a minute from the time of commencing operations) was now lifted from the fire, and its contents rolled off into the hot silver dish at hand to receive it, in which a little melted butter, with some minced parsley and shallot, had been prepared. The omelette, as it rolled of its own accord from the pan, caught up, and buried within it, the slightly un- formed juicy part of the mixture which still remained on the surface; and, as it lay in the dish, was without any special shape, of a golden yellow colour, flecked with green, with the juicy part escaping from beneath its folds. An omelette ought never to he stiff enough to retain a rolled-up appearance. Being so rapidly cooked, it ought to be too light to present a fixed form, and, on reaching the hot dish, should spread itself rather, on account of its very frothiness. Books that counsel you to turn an omelette to fold it, to let it brown on one side, to let it fry for about five minutes, Ac., are not to be trusted. If you follow such advice, you will only produce, at best, an egg pudding. Timed by the seconds hand of a watch an omelette of six- eggs, cooked as I have described “by the first intention,” took forty-five seconds from the moment of being poured into the pan to that of being turned into the dish. The omelette we have just discussed is that generally