ON LUNCHEONS. 201 slices of cold dressed meat about the middle thereof, you cannot go far wrong. Spiced pressed beef, or corned hump, lamb and mint sauce, pigeon pie or game pie, or the galan- tine aforesaid, are the sort of dishes from which you can select your central effect. If not giving a mayonnaise,. a salad ought certainly to accompany the cold meat, and pota- toes artistically dressed may go round. Canapes form a delicious luncheon dish, void:—cut some slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick, and two inches long if heart-shaped, two inches in diameter if round, and two inches square if rectangular. Crisp these in the oven on a buttered tin and set them on a dish to get cold. To com- plete the canape, first spread a layer of “green butter” over each piece of crisp bread, upon that place* a layer of prawn or lobster meat pounded with butter, and slightly seasoned with Nepaul pepper; smooth this with a dessert-knife, place a leaf of lettuce (cut from the golden heart) upon the top of the prawn meat, and a piece of beetroot shaped with your cutter. Over each canape when thus prepared, and placed in the dish ready for serving, pour a dessert-spoonful of rich, thickly worked, mayonnaise sauce, iced. A little chopped olive, or chopped capers, or the two mixed, may be judi- ciously sprinkled over each cap of mayonnaise dressing. The dish should stand on ice before serving. Instead of prawn meat, you can use cold chicken, finely sliced or pounded, an atom of pate de foie gras might then be added to each canape, and the thinnest slice of tongue might cover it. Instead of lettuce, a few sprigs of the flower of a cold cauliflower can be introduced, or any cold vegeta- ble of a delicate kind, asparagus points to wit. Fish may be used in this fashion :—caviare, cod’s roe, lobster, herring d la sardine, sardines, lax, preserved tunny, and anchovies. Fancy some neatly picked fillets of the last named fish, wiped free from oil, and the skin and bones removed, reposing on the green butter ; over them a goodly