226 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. pretty item of our menu need cost us but little trouble. We Can obtain many excellent things wherewith to captivate the appetite, and we can make others which in their way are generally successful. Olives fargies, olives plain /ancho- vies in oil, sardines, sliced Bologna sausages, preserved tunny, lax, lobster, cod’s roes, seer-fish roes, reindeer’s tongues, ox tongue, devilled ham, potted meats, fancy but- ters, herrings a la sardine, pilchards in oil, caviare, oysters, pickles, cucumber, radishes, thin bread and butter, wafer biscuits, oaten biscuits, and last but not least “Bombay ducks” provide us with a goodly list from which to choose our tasty morsels. Hors cl’oeuvres if served d V Italienne, should be placed in a dish divided into compartments. Tongue, sausages, and ham, should be most delicately sliced. Preserved fish should be very carefully wiped free from all tin-oil, and re-dressed with the finest salad oil: if of a large kind, small portions should be cut to suit the dish. Potted meats should be fresh, home made, and prettily shaped in a cone. Caviare should be turned out of the tin, and garnished with quarters of lime.- Fancy butters must be iced, and served separately. Sardines can be greatly improved by being treated as “ Norwegian Anchovies.” Open a tin of the best sardines, take the fish out one by one, and place them on a dish. Wipe them free from oil, carefully pick off their skins and divide each sardine in half length wise. Give the fillets thus obtain- ed a dusting of white pepper. Or, if too soft, omit the filleting. Now, take an oval earthenware pot, see that it is dry and clean, slice a Bombay onion up, and put a layer of the rings at the bottom of the pot, with a cinnamon leaf, and a pepper corn or two. Arrange over this a layer of sardine fillets, and continue the process until the pot is filled, or the fillets are exhausted. Pour over the layers a marinade of oil and vinegar (one spoonful of the latter to