196 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. speciality as simple as it is delicious. A table-spoonful of grated and finely sifted cheese to three ordinary eggs, salt and black pepper to taste, and a dessert-spoonful of rich cream, if possible, compose the mixture. Incorporate the ingredients, and proceed as recorded in the previous direc- tions. Remember that it should be served just before all the juicy mixture on the surface quite sets, so that there may be an exudation of creamy moisture in the dish, and don’t forget to dust over the surface a canopy of grated cheese. This must go from the fire to the plate, as it were. Delay in serving is hard on any omelette. And, now, we come to the Curb’s piece cle resistance, con- cerning which I spoke at the beginning of this chapter. The salient feature of this plat was the combination of tunny, and carp’s roes by which it was flavoured. Half a slice of preserved tunny, and the soft roes of two herrings a la sar- dine very finely minced together, with a little shallot, and a dessert-spoonful of parsley, should be tossed in butter awhile, and then stirred into a basin containing six well mixed eggs. Cook the mixture as already explained, and turn it out, when ready, into a hot dish containing a little melted butter, a few drops of vinegar and some minced shallot, and parsley. If you cannot get preserved tunny, a piece of lax, or nicely tinned salmon will be found an agreeable substitute, and cod’s roes will form a pleasant companion thereto. The Cure used fresh tunny, and fresh roes, but we may follow his recipe with preserved substi- tutes, if not too salt, and achieve a very fair result. A capital omelette of this kind is made with kippered seer- fish, made at home, with Madras fish roe well soaked. The fresh seer-fish should be split, washed, and dried with a cloth ; salt, sugar, and lime-juice being well rubbed in im- mediately ; the next day the rubbing must be repeated. Be- tween the rubbings the fish must lie in salt, and salt must be sprinkled over it; on the third day it must be artificially