214 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. Try this:—pound a dish of boiled prawns in a mortar with some butter, and weak fish gravy; when quite worked to a puree, incorporate it with the batter, and drop the mixture by dessert-spoonfuls at a time, into your friture-^an: let the fritters cook till they turn a rich golden colour, and are as crisp as biscuits, then drain, and serve them on a napkin, with crisply fried parsley. If you omit the prawn puree, and simply fry spoonfuls of the plain batter, you will have beignets, or (as Ramasamy hath it) pan-cake fritters,” which may be either sent up as a savoury entremets, to be eaten with butter, pepper, and salt; or as a sweet one, when they must be dusted over with powdered sugar, and sprinkled with lime juice. In the latter case, a spoonful of brandy or liqueur shaken over the fritters improves their general effect. All fruit fritters can be cooked in the batter I have de- scribed. Peaches, apricots, pears, and apples, make deli- cious fritters, the pine-apple is equally amenable to the /W- ture-pan ; whilst oranges and our lowly plantain are not to be despised. For the four former fruits we must look to the tin ; those that come to us from America are specially to be recommended. Pine-apples, when in season, can he procured in the market; if out of season, the American tinned slices are capital substitutes. Oranges can be used in their season, and the plantain is a perennial friend. Whatever fruit be chosen, let it be set en marinade in liqueur, brandy, or rum. Delicate fruits require liqueur, the pine-apple is better associated with rum, the plantain and' orange are thankful for either rum or brandy. A wineglass is enough. The fruit, sliced, and prepared for the “ beignet,” should be laid in a soup-plate, dusted over with sugar, and sprinkled with the brandy, or liqueur. After an hour, the slices should be turned over, basted again, and this should be repeated during the afternoon, until they are required by the cook. The brandy or liqueur