280 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. tionecl. It is a thing that people rarely attempt in this country under an impression, I fancy, that it is too difficult for the Indian chef. Yet, as a matter of fact, nothing can be more simple. Pies of this kind are inexpensive, and whether for breakfast, the luncheon table, or the pic-nic basket, cannot be too highly commended. To be certain of success it is advisable to procure a raised pie-tin, which should have movable sides secured by a pin at either end so that the pie may be easily released when baked. A locally made tin of the following size will, in the absence of a proper utensil, be found useful:—Oval in shape, six inches and a half long and five inches across (top measure- ment), five and a half inches long, add four inches across (bottom measurement) : a movable bottom to fit the latter : depth of tin three and a half inches. The bazar tin-man will turn you out one of these tins in a few hours for a trifling sum. Made in a mould of this shape, the pie is, of course, larger at the top than at the bottom, with sloping sides. Having procured a tin, you should make the follow- ing short “pork-pie crust” to fit it— Put half a pint of water into a sauce-pan, and let it boil; when boiling, stir into it a quarter of a pound of clarified suet, and one ounce of fresh butter with a tea-spoonfid of salt. Stir till the fat has melted, and then pour the con- tents of the sauce-pan, boiling hot, into a bowl containing a pound and a half of well-dried flour. Work'the mixture to a stiff paste adding a little water, if necessary, and turn it out upon a cold pastry slab ; roll it out three-quarters of an inch thick, as evenly and level as possible, and let it get quite cold. Now, butter the tin, and cut an oval piece of paste a little larger than the bottom of it, so that the edges may turn up, and be more readily fixed to the wall, or side-paste ; next cut out a strip three and a half inches wide, and sufficiently long to go round the inside of the wall of the tin ;. fix the bottom of the wall to the oval piece