293 A FEW NICE PIES. into a large sauce-pan, and make the best gravy you can with them for the pie. When this has been done to your satisfaction, and the fat has been skimmed off the surface of the liquor, proceed in this way :—Make a plain force- meat as described for turkey, mingling with it the liver and kidneys of the rabbit very finely chopped, and spread a thin layer of it at the bottom of tbe pie-dish ; immediately above it put a layer of bacon slices, then the coarser joints of the rabbit, dusting them with “spiced pepper,” and fill- ing the interstices between the pieces with forcemeat; put a second layer of bacon over the rabbit, and rabbit again above that, repeat the forcemeat dressing, and when the pie-dish is full, pour in the gravy till it almost reaches the level of the topmost layer. Garnish as usual, cover the pie with paste, and bake ; time, if the oven be in a proper con- dition, about one hour and a quarter. 4. “Hare Pie.”—This should be made like the fore- going ‘pasty’ exactly, with two slight variations, viz. :—a glass of port, a teaspoonful of good vinegar, with a dessert- spoonful of red currant jelly should be mixed into the gravy, and a little pounded mace may be sprinkled over the meat in addition to the ordinary spiced pepper. 5. “Pigeon Pie.”—A pound and a half of tender lean beef to three good pigeons, half a pound of leanish bacon, and a pound of gravy beef. The process is not very differ- ent from that of the pies already described. You must make the best gravy possible from two sheep’s feet, the pound of gravy meat, the pigeon trimmings, and any scraps at hand. The pigeons should be placed upon the tender beef, which should be cut into neat collops and blended with the bacon cut into thin strips as propounded for “beef- steakpie,” Menu No. 28. Do not cut the pigeons in halves ; let them be prepared whole as if for roasting, and put some chopped bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, or “spiced pep- per,” salt, and grated lime peel, inside each bird. Half a