BOILING AND STEAMING. 135 No better recipe can possibly be found than that given by Gouffh quoted by Sir Henry Thompson as follows: “ Take about 4 lbs. (2 kilos) of thick beefsteak cut square. Take nearly j lb. (3 hectos) of raw fat bacon, cut oft the rind, which should be put aside to blanche, and then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one-third of an inch thick, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat, and tie it up as for the pot-au-feu. Place the piece of meat in a stew-pan with rather less than a pint of white wine-glass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water, two calves’ feet already bon- ed and blanched, and the rind of the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire adding a little less than one ounce of salt (30 grammes). Make it boil, and skim it as for pot-au-feu ; next, having skimmed it, add fully one pound (500 gram- mes) of caiTots, one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, and two pinches of pepper. Place the stew-pan on the corn- er of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for four hours and a half. Try the meat with a skewer to ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked, then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves’ feet, and keep them cover- ed up hot until serving.” “ Next, strain the gravy through a fine tammy ; remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it over the fire about a quarter. Lastly, untie the beef, place it on the dish for serving, add the calves’ feet each having been cut into eight pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of corks, and ten glazed onions. Arrange the calves’ feet, the carrots, and onions round the beef, pour the sauce over the meat keep- ing the surplus for the next day. Taste it in order to ascer- tain if sufficiently seasoned. Beef a la mode should be very relishing: sometimes a clove of gai'lic is added. I do not mention this as a necessary item, but as one which must be decided by the lady of the house.” Those who desire to enjoy the true bceuf d la mode will do well to follow this recipe in its entirety. Observe that