366 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. An excellent hash may be made of a cold roast have (or venison) in this way:—Trim off as much of the meat as you can find in slices, and cut out what remains of the stuff- ing : break up all the hones and put them with the skin and scraps into a stew-pan with a large onion cut up, pepper- corns, a bit of celery if possible, and any vegetable, a little spice, any sauce that may have been left, a couple of glasses of red wine and enough water to cover the hones, &c.; sim- mer these ingredients for an hour and a half, and then strain off the gravy. Thicken it with butter and flour, flavour it with a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, half a glass of vine- gar, and a little more red wine : heat up the slices of hare in this sauce taking care that they do not boil, and serve with a stuffing sliced and fried in butter as a garnish. Tor habe soup, see Menu bio. 15 for the clear, and Menu No. 19 for the thick. Our venison might be made a good deal more of than it is. With a little trouble its dryness, and general want of fat can be combated, the former by cookery, the latter by larding. It is first of all quite a sine quel non that the meat should he marinaded. The process not only improves its flavour, but it renders it more tender and juicy. Meat will keep when in marinade that would go bad in a few hours if ordinarily hung. A reliable marinade (which by the way can be made before you proceed into camp and be taken out in bottles) is made in the following manner. Take four ounces of carrot, eight ounces of onions, a table- spoonful of mixed herbs from the bottle, and an ounce of parsley : put these into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter : fry for five minutes, and then add one pint of vinegar, one quart of water, one and a quarter ounce of salt, a half ounce of pepper and a blade of mace. Boil up, and then simmer for half an hour; strain, and the preparation can be used or bottled as occasion may demand. In cold weather a