20 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. I cannot too strongly recommend the adoption of that invaluable utensil a “ bctin-maria,” or shallow trough, which, filled with hot-water and kept over a moderate fire, affords a hot bath in which the various little sauce- pans containing sauces, etc., can be set, and so kept hot without deterioration. A bain-marie complete, with a set of saucepans made to fit it, can be purchased at any hard- ware shop, or you can have one made to order to fit your saucepans in copper, iron, or block tin; the first material will, of course, outlast the other two. The stock pot is a vessel that may be given to Eamasamy without hesitation ; and he is keenly alive to the value of the stew-pan. In the matter of frying-pans he is not hypercritical: I do not think that he perceives the differ- ence between a future-pan and an omelette-pan. He dis- likes anything heavy, and generally asks for a small iron pan. I quite agree with a friend whose experience in culinary matters is great, who advocates a deep-sided, heavy iron frying-vessel,—a frying kettle, in short, rather than the ordinary frying-y><m of commerce, steady over the fire on account of its own weight,—for all real frit, are work, and, of course, a handy vessel for saute work, with a still lighter one for omelettes. The large pan he recommends can he made in any Indian bazar, and, when used in con- junction with the frying basket, will certainly be found most valuable. Like many English cooks, the native is apt to discard the grid-iron and take the frying-pan for many things which ought invariably to be cooked on the former vessel: this -tendency requires watching,. for in many of the receipts I shall give, broiling is essential. I hesitate to pronounce any opinion upon the metal best adapted for kitchen utensils, for, upon this point different people think differently. Copper—the most expensive— is, we all know, universally recommended on account of its durability. You see nothing else in the kitchens of