CAMP COOKERY. 369 half till the birds are tender. Dish with the cabbage in the centre, and the birds placed neatly round it, with the sliced sausage and bacon as garnish. Serve the gravy in a boat very hot. I have cooked Himalayan pheasants, and tame pigeons, in same manner with the best results. The salmis of partridges, and other game birds is a well known dish; it is however too often looked upon as the manner in which game should be served en rechauffe, whereas the bird should scarcely be cooked at all before being stewed. The correct method is to prepaid the birds as if for roasting : then to cut a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon in pieces one inch long, and half an inch thick; to put an ounce of butter in a stew-pan; to fry the bacon pieces therein, and when turning color to put in the birds, to cook them (sauU) for eight minutes, and then to dredge an ounce of flour over them. Now the best gravy you can make assisted with a glass of wine should be poured into the stew-pan, and the birds should be simmered in it for twenty minutes or until tender. To serve,—take the birds out of the pan, set them on a hot dish and pour the sauce over them. This method is obviously practicable for small birds that can be cooked and served whole, such as quails, snipe, plovers, cholum birds, &c. Larger birds must be prepared in this manner :— After the preliminary saute work in the melted butter and bacon fat, take the birds out of the stew-pan, let thehi get cold. When cold, carve from each bird the wings, breast, and legs, and trim each piece as neatly as possible, remov- ing the skin from it. Take all the trimmings and put them with the carcases, chopped up, into the stew-pan in which the birds were fried ; add a slice of ham, also cut up and put in a couple of shallots, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few cloves, the least bit of cayenne, and whole pepper and salt to taste; add a wine-glassful of marsala and as much stock as will just cover the contents of the sauce-pan. Set it to sim- 32