CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 326 often thrown away by ignorant native cooks, or annexed by the wary ones for their own food. It is the water in which certain vegetables have been boiled. As a matter of economy, house-keepers should make a note of this. Suppose you want to make a salads cuite, i.e., a salad of cooked vegeta- bles, or a macedoine, the water in which the carrots, onions, leeks, peas, flageolets, French beans, and young turnips are boiled will provide you with an excellent stock for ordinary white sauce, or mulligatunny. The ordinary chicken or mutton mulligatunny, made without assistance in the way of stock, may, with some little pains, be sent up in better style than our cooks, as a rule, are satisfied with. We do not want a thin yellow liquid with queer-looking leaves and bits of fried onion floating in it. We ask for a smooth, creamy potage, free from any lump or floating substance, and garnished with a few choice pieces of the chicken or mutton from which it was extracted. Cut up a well-nurtured chicken or young fowl as if for fricassee, soak the pieces in cold water for half an hour, drain, and put them into a stew-pan with one quart of water (cold), four ounces of onion, the same of carrot, a salt-spoon- ful of pepper, a tea-spoonful of salt, and an ounce of celery ;— boil, skim, and simmer for half an hour with the stew-pan not quite closed. While this is doing, slice up a couple of good-sized onions, and put them, with two table-spoonfuls of butter, into a small stew-pan on a low fire, fry together till slightly browned, and stir into the butter a couple of table-spoonfuls of mulligatunny paste or curry-powder (Barrie’s “ Madras,” if possible). Cook the paste or powder with the butter and onions for five minutes, and then dilute with a coffee-cupful of warm water. Now empty the contents of the smaller stew-pan into the vessel containing the chicken; and if the pieces are not quite covered, put in water enough to do so. Let the contents come once to the boil, then ease off the fire, and simmer for half an hour very gently. While this is going on, pound a