CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 92 described:—he cuts some slices of bread, or grates bread- crumbs enough for bis requirements, over which he pours a tea-cupful of boiling water, be gives that a pinch of salt, perhaps (but by no means for certain) a spoonful of milk, and a quantity of whole pepper corns, and cloves ; he stirs this to the consistency of thick porridge, and finally sends up a mixture which may be plainly described as spiced bread poultice ! Setting aside other considerations for a moment, can anything be more disagreeable than the accidental biting of a whole clove, or a pepper corn, in any dish or sauce ? Common sense accordingly dictates that when the use of these condiments is necessary, we should strain the liquid in which they have been placed before serving it. The back-bone of “ bread-sauce ” is the flavouring of the milk with which it is made, to begin with ; that being done, to strain it carefully over your grated bread-crumbs; then to re-heat it, and lastly to finish it off with a good table-spoon- ful of cream at the moment before you serve it. In the ab- sence of cream, the yolk of one egg, beaten up in a little warm milk till it looks creamy, may be added, off the fire, just at the last, but cream should be used if possible. . To flavour the milk, you must take a good sized white onion, peel off the outside skin, blanch it for five minutes in scalding water, then cut it into quarters, and put them, with a dozen pepper corns, six cloves, a blade of mace, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and a salt-spoonful of salt, into a sauce-pan containing not less than half a pint of good milk. The utmost care is now necessary, for milk boils up so rapidly that you must watch your sauce-pan narrowly, and use a very low fire to retard the boiling stage. Remove the pan as soon as the surface of the milk looks frothy : let it cool a little, and replace it, continuing the operation until the onion is done, and adding a little milk from time to time to make good the loss by evaporation. Now, strain