77 ENTREES—CON CL UDED. either the one or the other be served at the ordinary temper- ature the effect will be hopelessly marred. Follow the recipe you select carefully, remember the icing, and all will be well. And now touching the highest class of entrees :—You must, to begin with, submit to a little more expense than was necessary in classes one and two. Butter, cream, special gravy meat, &c., must not he shirked, but be given to the cook with a liberal hand. As your Gouffe or other author bids you, so must you proceed without a murmur. We sometimes do our utmost to give our guests, here in sultry Madras, a vol-au-vent, when we should know quite well that it is almost impossible to produce, in a tempera- ture that rarely falls below 80°, the exquisitely light puff pastry from which the dish derives its name. The best at- tempts present the appearance of layers of talc laid one over the other in an oval-shape and baked a pale brown. Now, I maintain that it would be better to give up our fruitless efforts, and employ one of the ornamental china or earthen- ware dishes made specially for this purpose, and to be pro- cured from all good dealers in glass and crockery in Lon- don. Small china ones for dishes served an caisses are of course, quite common. We could then send up our ragout cl la financiere, or cl lareine, without misgivings, in a pretty dish becomingly garnished, and bury the unhappy memo- ries of the light puff paste we never could achieve. But whilst thus proposing to abandon as fruitless our attempts to place before our guests a true vol-au-vent conquered by the climate in which we live, and not through carelessness or want of culinary skill,—I, by no means, wish to say that we should cease to bestow our attention upon entrees, which can be made of pastry of a less volatile nature. There are some Madras cooks, I know, who can turn out very good light pate pastry. To such men you can entrust, of course, petitspates, timbales, salpicon bouchdes, and those artistic croustacles for which pastry is employed instead of