117 BRAISING AND ROASTING. I strongly advocate for the poor meat of this country, when you intend to roast or grill it. Here is their method of cooking a loin of mutton en papillote :—Trim the loin nicely, and let it lie from morning till roasting time en mari- nade, composed of a breakfast-cupful of salad oil, a table- spoonful of vinegar, two onions, and a carrot sliced fine as for Julienne, with some whole peppers,salt,chopped parsley, and a tea-spoonful of powdered dried sweet herbs. Let the joint be turned several times during the day, and baste it often. When to be dressed, pack it, with its vegetables and all, in a well oiled paper, tying it with tapes, and roasting it carefully, basting it with the oil and vinegar that com- posed the marinade : when nearly done, remove the paper, brush off the vegetables, baste with melted butter, and serve, when nicely browned, with other vegetables inde- pendently cooked, and an appropriate sauce. Though the inexperienced reader will hardly believe me, I can assure him that when finally set before him, he will fail to trace in this dish the presence of oil (the bete noir of English- men), whilst he will be surprised at the juiciness, and good flavour of the meat. In roasting Indian poultry, lard the breast if po'ssible with fat bacon, or tie a flap of bacon over it. Birds cannot be kept too moist when roasting. A large sweet onion, and a lump of preserved butter should be put inside the car- cass of a fowl, and the basting should be carefully attended to. The slower the roasting the better. I have often found that a fowl baked in a slow oven till about three parts done, and then finished in front of the fire, was excellent. It should be occasionally basted with melted butter whilst in the oven. The bacon tied over the breast should be removed during the last five minutes of the cooking, when the bird should be lightly dredged over with flour, and liberally basted with melted butter to produce the brown, crisp, blisters, which always make a fowl look inviting.