399 MENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. the pan from the fire, let the liquid cool, and strain it through a jelly bag, pouring it back and straining again until it is quite clear. When cold, flavour the jelly with maraschino; a wine-glass will be sufficient, and let it rest awhile. Now prepare a macedoine of fruits, preserved cherries,strawberries,apricots, greengages, and raspberries, and fill the jelly mould as follows :—first set it upon ice, and pom- into it about one-eighth thickness of the jelly, arrange some fruit tastefully in this layer, cover it with jelly, and continue layers of fruit and of jelly until the mould is nearly full, then finish it with jelly only, cover the mould with ice, and turn it out when finally set and quite firm. Iced cream en bloc may accompany. 8.—This is an iced pudding flavoured with chocolate. First note the way in which the case Jced Charlotte a la shouilcl be made, which is applicable to all iced puddings in cake cases. Cut the slices of cake the length of the depth of the mould, the eighth of an inch thick, and an inch and a half wide : cut a circular piece the size of the bottom of the mould. Make a cement with the whites of three eggs, and an ounce of finely sifted sugar. Arrange the slices round the side of the mould slightly overlapping one another, and cement them firmly together, fixing their ends to the circular top placed at the bottom of the mould. When the cement dries the case will be quite firm. Choose a mould for the ice slightly smaller than this case, so that the latter may cover it nicely. When firmly set, the cake case may be turned out upon a dish, and its outside brushed over with some thin cement, and sprinkled over with chopped pistachio nuts, almonds, sugar plums (nonpareils) or crystallized sugar. For the ice :—Dissolve two ounces of chocolate in a pint of boiling milk, when quite smooth and cold, add half a pint of cream, a tea-spoonful of vanilla essence and the yolks of ten eggs : make a custard of the mixture, adding two ounces