330 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. ances can be purchased for £2, s. 15. For that sum you have a capital oven, with baking dishes and a griddle, a radiator, a kettle, and a frying-pan. Ordinary sauce-pans of a certain diameter can he used with it. A Warren’s cooking pot, fitted to the stove, is furnished for £1-1, and a griller for five shillings and sixpence. When not wanted for cooking, it can be used for heating a room, for which purpose, you use the radiator, or ornamental chimney, previously men- tioned. Thus adjusted, it is also very useful for airing damp linen, or drying wet clothes ; you have merely to place a large circular basket over it, and spread the things thereon, for the chimney is so contrived that the heat radiates late- rally, and there is therefore no chance of burning, scorch- ing, or smoking. In camp, the first thing the Acme would do for you would be to boil the water for your tea : if a raw December, or January morning in the Deccan, or on the plateau of Mysore, you would not object to the operation being performed inside your tent, for the warmth would be very pleasant. It would then bake the bread for your breakfast, and warm up any rdchaiiffe destined for that meal at the same time. During the day it would make the soup, and in the evening be available for work for dinner. I do not say that you could do without a charcoal fire, but the stove wmuld do a large portion of the day’s cooking, and in a way vastly superior to any ordinary fire, either in camp or cantonment. In soup-making, for instance, and in stewing operations, you possess the power of producing the exact amount of heat you need by turning down the wicks at will. I have made a pot-au-feu, in a Warren’s kettle placed upon my Acme, the like of which I defy a native cook to produce with a common cook-room fire, simply on account of this regulating power. A gallon flask of kerosine oil should be made to fit the stove box for short periods of camp life. If a man were settled in a standing camp, or out in his district for an indefinite