152 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. the portion that may lie left after dinner, will remain nice and juicy, and will make a rechauffe in the form of a puree with potatoes and butter for breakfast; or, if cut up and tossed in butter in the frying-pan with finely-minced herbs, it will be acceptable with the chop or kidney. Let a plainly cooked head of cabbage, therefore, be sent up simply divid- ed into quarters, with a pat of fresh butter on the top of each, melting from the heat of the greens. 1. Here is a form of stewed cabbage (chow cm jus) that —if the head be nice and young—is worthy of being eaten alone :—Take a savoy or any good sort of cabbage, pick it carefully, and let it soak in salt and water and vinegar for an hour ; if a large head, you must divide it into quarters, and even a small head had better be cut in halves. When satisfied that the cabbage is thoroughly clean, blanch the pieces by plunging them for five minutes in boiling water, then either steam the quarters, or plunge them into boil- ing liot-water, with t, oz. salt and i oz. sugar, and after boiling for a quarter of an hour, take them out and drain them. Now, mince a thick slice of bacon, and a little shal- lot, parsley, marjoram, and thyme, with a pinch of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste ; put all in a stew-pan, and set it on the fire. As soon as the bacon melts, lay your cabbage quarters in it, toss them in the melted bacon for a minute or two and pour round them sufficient gravy to half cover them. Let this simmer gently till the cabbage is done. Then lift out the quarters, place them in a hot dish, and cover them up. Strain the gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, and pour it over the cabbage. The better your gravy in this case, the better the result. If, therefore, you can spare some turkey bones, or scraps of game, ham, or tongue to assist your ordinary stock, your entremets will be all the nicer. 2. Another good way, chon an sauce blanche may be de- scribed as follows :—Divide it into quarters, half-boil them,