441 MENU FOR, A DINNER OF SIX. pepper, salt, onion, and sweet herbs. Half fry, or bake them and let them get cold. Prepare some batter as follows: —Beat up together the yolks of two eggs (save the whites) with one table-spoonful of brandy, one of salad oil, and four or five table-spoonfuls of water. Amalgamate with this three table-spoonfuls of imported flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat the mixture well for a minute or two, and bring it to the right consistency by adding water, or flour, as the case may require. When ready, add, at the last moment, the whites you saved, whipped to a froth : dip your collops into this, and lay them one by one in your frying basket, dipping it immediately into a deep friture-pan, filled with boiling fat; as soon as they turn a nice deep yellow, lift them out, drain them on a sheet of blotting paper, and serve them, crisp and dry on a napkin garnished with fried parsley, and slices of lime. Let sauce-Hollanclaise in a boat accompany (q. v. page 95). 3.—Take two nice chickens, cut them up as if for fri- cassee, steep the pieces in cold water bertbfashionSfc Lam' f°r Half an hour, then drain themj and select the following pieces, viz.:— the four wings, the four legs, two breasts, and four thighs, and put them aside covered up. Take all that remains, viz.:—the backs, pinions, necks, livers, gizzards, and trim- mings, and, with an onion cut up, some peppercorns, a few spoonfuls of meat gravy, a bit of lime peel, a tea-spoonful of ketchup, and salt, make as good a pint of broth as you can ; when ready, fish out the livers, and strain the broth. Now put into the stew-pan the selected joints of the chickens, cover them with the strained broth, and stew them gently till done, with six button onions, one carrot, and a handful of French beans. Now pick out the chicken, strain the broth, and put the vegetables aside. Proceed with the broth to make a nice veloute (rich white sauce) flavoured with the milk of a dozen sweet almonds pounded, and a blade of mace; 41