244 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. therewith the minced fish, add the yolk of an egg, and when thick enough and thoroughly hot, pour it upon slices of fried toast hot from the pan, and dish up quickly. The cold remains of all fish may be thus satisfactorily disposed of. “Buttered eggs ” go wonderfully well with fish toasts, either laid as a top-dressing over the fish mince, or mingled with it; and hard-boiled eggs may be cut up, and tossed with the fish in the sauce-pan just before serving. Cheese is another valuable ingredient in the hands of the toast-maker. Welsh rarebit, or “ Ramakin toast ” as it is called by Ramasamy, is universally familiar to native cooks, and is a dish upon which they generally fall back in an emergency, or when “ Missis din’t give arders for anything else.” For a really good Welsh rarebit, you should have a sound fresh cheese, not over-strong, and pro- ceed thus:—Grate two ounces of the cheese, mix with it an ounce of butter, a dessert-spoonful of made-mustard, a little salt, a pinch of Nepaul pepper, and yolks of two eggs. Mix well together in a basin, and work the mixture thoroughly smooth. Toast a couple of neat slices of bread very carefully, butter them on both sides, place them on a dish that will stand the oven, spread the cheese mixture over them pretty thickly, and bake for ten minutes. If you want a smooth yellow surface, neither too brown nor dry, place your toasts in a buttered pie-dish, and spread a sheet of common white paper over them : after ten minutes’ bak- ing in a really hot oven, they will be ready, so remove the paper, take them out, and serve forthwith. A good plain cheese toast, made as follows, is not to be despisedCut a few very thin slices of a nice fresh cheese, or grate two ounces of a hard dry one: put the cheese upon a small well buttered baking tin, and place it in the oven ; watch it carefully, and when it begins to dis- solve, stir some more butter into it, give it a dust of Nepaul pepper, and serve it up on crisply fried toasts quickly.