MENU FOR A LITTLE HOME DINNER. 53l mg from time to time a little colcl water to retard ebulli- tion, and encourage the rising of the scum. Keep the vessel open throughout the operations, otherwise the soup will not be bright and clear. This having been completed, and the pot boiling with a clean surface, you may cast in your vegetables (the carrots first, followed by the turnip), all nicely washed, trimmed, and cut up. In addition, you must give the soup a tea-spoonful of caramel (burnt sugar colouring;, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a dozen pepper- corns, and a bag containing mixed sweet herbs (a tea- spoonful of each). These additions will stop the boiling you will find, so watch the vessel narrowly, and as soon as boiling begins again, ease off the fire, and let the contents of the kettle simmer till the vegetables are nicely done. Now take the kettle from the fire, remove the vegetables and put the meat broth and bone back on a low fire to simmer slowly until you find that the first is nice and ten- der,—done in fact. The time of this will depend upon the size of the meat and the accuracy of the simmering : from two to three hours is the ordinary period. As soon as the meat is done, the soup is ready also: keeping the meat overdoing will not give you a fraction more strength in the broth. So strain it from the meat, and set it to cool. Place the meat and vegetables separately on dishes. When the broth is cold, take off any fat that may have risen to its surface, and return the liquor to the sauce-pan. Cut up some of the vegetables into nice pieces and place them in the soup-tureen, let the contents of your sauce-pan come almost to the boil, and pour them over the vegetables. It will be a bright clear soup, with a capital flavour: a dessert-spoonful of Madeira and a dried leaf or two of tarragon will improve it. The colour will depend upon the amount of caramel you put into the pot. A nice golden yellow is easily obtained. 2.—Make an incision along the back-bone on the upper