433 MENU FOB A PABTY OF FIGHT. Now, throw your shin, &c., into the soup kettle, adding to the cold head liquor already there, the bones just removed, sufficient cold water to cover the hone and meat completely and an ounce of salt. Proceed now as for consomme skim- ming very carefully, and retarding the boiling point as much as you can by periodical additions of water: when boiling takes place, ease off the fire, and add two Bombay onions in quarters, a head of celery, a couple of carrots, the rind of two limes, a large hunch of parsley, a quarter ounce of dried basil (sold in bottles), a tea-spoonful of dried thyme, and of marjoram (the herbs in a muslin bag), a dozen peppercorns, two anchovies cut up, half a wine-glass of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of sugar, and a tea-spoonful of caramel. Simmer slowly now for about three hours, skimming the surface occasionally, and on no account permitting the vessel to boil. Now strain very carefully, and set the soup in a bowl to cool and throw up all grease. Cut the cold head into one-and-a- half-inch squares, skim the cool soup well, and pour it into a large sauce-pan adding the pieces of head. Let the pieces cook slowly for half an hour, then drain them, and ! again strain the soup : clarify it if necessary adding a glass of Madeira, and the juice of a lime. Let this be heated up finally when required, and pour the soup into the tureen over a dozen or so carefully selected pieces of the head arranged therein. Serve, with limes cut into quarters, which should be handed round followed by the Madeira. The basil is most necessary, and the whole success of the soup depends upon strict attention to the flavouring herbs and ingredients. Select gelatinous, not meaty pieces, for the garnish to counterfeit the green fat of the turtle. The meaty squares will come in the next day for a ragoilt. For the thick :—Go hack to the period when you strain- ed the soup and set it to get cool. Take a large sauce-pan, and melt at 40 Thick mock-turtle.