BOILING AND STEAMING. 133 of the tin itself. A vessel of this kind I can strongly re- commend. I have found mine invaluable. Let us first take Ramasamy’s “ boiled chops."—Choose a good neck of mutton, and trim the little chops as neatly as possible. With the trimmings of meat and bone make a broth, assisted by an onion, some pepper corns, any scraps of beef, chicken bones, cold game, lean ham or bacon, in short any useful sundries. When done, skim, and strain it, you ought to have a breakfast-cupful of it. Now, scald the tin and cool it in cold water, cover the bottom of the tin with slices of onion, and arrange the chops thereon, coveringthem with two Bombay onions sliced fine, a carrot sliced, a young turnip sliced, a stick of celery cut into half inch lengths, two tomatoes sliced and drained, and a bunch of curled parsley. Then add to the broth a liqueur glass of brandy, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a salt-spoon- ful of salt, and the same of sugar. Pepper the chops pretty freely with freshly ground black pepper before covering them. When arranged, pour in the broth, and seal the lid of the tin, all round the rim, with stiff paste, fixingit securely. Now, put the tin into boiling water, and keep it on the fire for two hours. At the time of serving, the lid should be cut off, and the tin, wrapped in a napkin, should be placed upon an ordinary dish, and sent to table immediately. Follow the same directions in “jugging” a steak, or a blade bone : in the case of the boned fowl, a little bacon, or some sliced bologna sausage, will be found an improve- ment, the broth being made, of course, from the bones and giblets. With game birds I would add a little sweet herb seasoning. Fish should be done in this way :—Trim the fish in fillets, season them with pepper and salt, cover the bottom of the tin with slices of Bombay onion, dotting in a dozen pepper corns, and two cloves ; put a layer of fillets over the onion, and pepper them with black pepper; put in now a layer 12