CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 336 are a few capital soups requiring no meat at all, which are known as “ soupcs maigres.” I will give you three:— Dhcil soup au maigrc :—Pick carefully a pint measure of clhdl; wash this well, and put it into a stew-pan with six pints of water and a quarter of an ounce of salt, one Bellary onion, and a bacon bone if possible. Boil; then allow to simmer till the clhdl is cooked. This you ascertain by pressing a grain between the finger and thumb. To accel- erate the cooking, pour into the pan, every half hour, a quarter of a tumbler of cold water, starting the boiling again after each interruption. This opei’ation renders the soaking of dried pulse before cooking unnecessary, and though it adds to the consumption of fuel, the advantage gained is considerable. The clhdl being nice and soft, drain it off, reserving the broth : pass the grains through the wire sieve, with the onion, catching the puree in a soup plate. Now put half an ounce of butter with half an ounce of flour at the bottom of the cleaned stew-pan, mix these over the fire till velvety, then gradually add puree and broth together, until a soup of the desired quantity and consistency has been obtained. Off the fire, at the time of serving, you can add to the richness of the potcige by a yolk of egg beaten up with some warm milk or a raw yolk alone. Fried croiltons, or fried minced lean bacon, may accompany. You can follow this recipe exactly, substituting split peas, or dried haricots if you can get them. Powdered mint, if procurable, is of course a time-honored accompaniment. Soupe d Voignon:—Slice a couple of good sized Bom- bay onions; blanch the slices in boiling water for five minutes ; drain, and put them into a stew-pan ; let them fry till they turn pale brown in an ounce of butter ; then add one ounce of flour, a quart of water, pepper, and one ounce of salt; let the whole come to the boil and then simmer till the onions are well done and serve with croiltons of fried bread. Grated Parmesan should accompany. This is still