EGGS, M ACC ARON I, AND CHEESE. 259 into the mixture some finely rasped ham, or corned beef, and garnishing with curls of crisply fried bacon. Biz d V Indicnne :—Commence as laid down for riz A V Italienne using plently of good butter. Omit the tomato pulp, and instead of the grated cheese, stir in a table-spoon- ful of well made currypowder, and garnish with prawns that have been tossed in butter with a pinch of saffron. Biz an cho'iO :■—Boil some rice as for. the above, and keep it ready in a dish. Cut up the heart of a young cabbage previously boiled till tender. Melt a couple of ounces of butter in a roomy stew-pan, cast into it a finely shred Bom- bay onion, and two cloves of garlic minced as small as pos- sible : let tbe onion turn yellow, and then put in the shred cabbage, stir it about for three minutes with the butter and onions, and then pour over it enough broth or consomme to keep it from burning : stew gently now for a quarter of an hour, then add the rice which should be vigorously stirred about for five minutes with the cabbage. The dish is now ready. Turn it out upon a flat dish, and smother it with grated cheese. A slice of nice bacon may, with advantage, be cooked with the cabbage; it should be cut into dice, and put in with the butter and onion. For an ordinary head of cabbage, three breakfast-cupfuls of rice will be found enough. Biz d la Turque :—In this, and in the following cases, the rice is not wholly boiled beforehand. Put into a sauce- pan six coffee-cupfuls of broth or consomme into which suffi- cient tomato pulp has been stirred to slightly thicken it, flavour tins with salt and black pepper to taste, and set the sauce-pan on the fire. As soon as the liquid boils, cast into it three coffee-cupfuls of well cleansed raw rice. Reduce tbe heat, and let the rice stew gently in tbe tomato-flavoured gravy. As the rice cooks it will absorb tbe liquid : watch it narrowly, and as soon as it has sucked up the whole of it, stir into it an ounce of fresh butter. Just before serving