250 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOB MADRAS. crumbs, and bake for five or six minutes. Be careful not to let the eggs harden. “ CEufs d la Suisse” :—Choose a shallow pie-dish, and butter it liberally. Pour over the bottom of the dish a layer of cream a quarter of an inch deep, over that shake a coating of well-grated cheese a quarter of an inch deep, set this to cook in the oven for a few minutes; when the cheese and cream have amalgamated, take out the dish, and if wide enough to hold them without crowding, slip in one by one as carefully as you can,—to avoid breaking a single yolk,—six eggs ; give them a dust of black pepper, and salt, and gently pour a little more cream over the surface, coat- ing it over again with grated cheese. Replace the dish and let it remain in the oven until the eggs- are set with- out being hard,—the time will depend upon the state of the oven,—brown the surface by passing a red-hot iron back- wards and forwards over it, about an inch above the cheese, and serve. The cream should be really thick and rich, or' the effect of the little entremets will be “poor indeed.” This dish may be added to by first placing a layer of. previ- ously boiled maccaroni in the pie-dish, the cream being poured over it, then the cheese, and so on. The cooking of the under layer of cream and grated cheese before the insertion of the eggs, is a special point, for it prevents the eggs being overcooked. This was communi- cated to me by Monsieur C, chef to the Viceroy. “ CEufs au. gratin :—Butter the bottom of a pie-dish pre- viously well rubbed with shallot, and line it with some mac- caroni already boiled in milk, pour round it half a pint of sauce blouclc in which you have dissol ved some grated Par- mesan, or other mild well-rasped cheese, and upon that dis- pose a complete layer of hard boiled eggs, sliced. A finely minced anchovy should be sprinkled over the eggs with pepper and salt, or better still, with a judicious dressing of “ spiced salt ” (q. v., page 121) for seasoning; and then