212 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. flour to make a thick paste, which you thin to the re- quired consistency by the addition of water, reserving the whipped white of the egg to finish with. The kramousky* is, I think, the prince of all savoury fritters, and is susceptible of being composed in many deli- cious ways. The oyster, pounded shell fish, minced fish of any kind, sweet-breads (when you can get them) or any delicately composed mince of fowl, or of meat, with tongue or ham, can be thus turned to an artistic account. What- ever your salpicon, or minced composition, may be made of, the specialities of the kramousky are the little jacket of fat bacon in which it is enveloped, and the batter in which it is dipped. The bacon should he cold and have been previ- ously cooked, and cut into thin slices, two and a half inches long, and one and a half deep : two oysters, or a heaped up tea-spoonful of any salpicon, should he laid in the eentre of each : the bacon must then he folded over it very neatly, fixed with white of egg and kept ready for the dipping pro- cess, which must be carried out cautiously. The frying should be conducted as already described. If you wish to make kramouskys of chicken, turkey, or game, you should mince the meat coursely, the pieces being cut like little dice, bind the mince with the yolks of a couple of eggs or more, according to the quantity of the mince, and stir into it, in a sauce-pan on the fire, a little richly made veloute; turn this into a soup plate, and let it get quite cold, and firm, then divide it into little portions and fill your bacon slices. Minced truffles, and mushrooms, are, of course, undeniable improvements to any salpicon. A fish kramousky is easily accomplished : you need only mince the fish, stir into it, in a sauce-pan on the fire, a * Generally written ‘ Kromesky,’ or 1 cromesqui.’ I have adopted a different spelling having been assured by a friend whose authority is unimpeachable that the dish is of Russian origin, and its name “ Kramousky.”