CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 82 attain this end, the French chef prepares a socle or founda- tion which he makes out of a solid block of bread, or ground-rice moulded : socles for cold entrees are even some- times made of melted wax candle consolidated with flour and beeswax. A flat socle for ordinary hot entries is easily made with rice, which should he boiled, pounded, and then moulded with a wooden -spoon into an oval or round block according to the shape of the dish. When moulded, it should he brushed over with egg and colored in the oven. For cold entrees, spread the block over with fresh butter. Having thus obtained a firm foundation, the entree itself becomes, as it were, a superstructure erected upon the socle. Nothing looks more slovenly than an entree arranged on the level of the dish itself. Lastly touching the helping of entrees :—Dishes that require careful helping ought certainly never to be handed round at a dinner party. I have observed that ladies fre- quently refuse an entree on account of the difficulty of help- ing themselves. A fair patroness of mine whose menage is worthy of her artistic skill, tells me that she has made up her mind (and rightly, say I,) never to permit her admir- able mayonnaise a la Gouffe to be handed round to her guests again. One person, she says, wordd take a little of the aspic, the next some of the fish, the third—engaged, perhaps in pleasant chatter, with a pair of bright eyes full upon him —might absently secure a fragment of the garnish ! and so on, all in heart-rending ignorance of the science and care bestowed upon the dish. In any circumstances I strongly recommend that all iced entries lie helped from the side table, with a portion of the iced sauce upon each cold plate, and passed round to your guests without delay. For, in a climate as warm as this, speedy helping at the side table will prevent the possible contingency of liquefaction. Indeed all entrees might he thus served with manifest advantage. The menu card in