CULINARY JOTTINGS FOIi MADRAS. 352 Having thus attached the fish securely to the spit, the roasting should he conducted before a clear charcoal fh’e, and basting should be kept up continually. To facilitate this work, place a tin baking-dish under the fish, put into it four ounces of butter, and when that has melted, a glass of vinegar; catch all the liquid that drops from the fish, and use this with the melted butter and vinegar for the basting. When done, detach the fish carefully, lay it in the hot dish prepared for it, and pour over it a sauce composed in the same way as that recommended for the baked murral. The recipes given for baking and roasting the murral can be applied to several other fish :—the various carps from the lordly Barbus tor, or Mahseer, downwards, the Labeos including the L. Bohita or ro hu of Northern India, the Cat la, the Wallago attu (fresh-water shark), &c. ; but very large fish are better prepared in fillets or steaks than whole, the treatment of which I will now proceed to demonstrate. I have already said that filleting fresh-water fish was a wise proceeding inasmuch as it protected you from the bones ; that our Native cooks were clever in performing the operations ; and that large fishes were perhaps better treat- ed in this manner than on the spit, or in the oven, whole. Well, another reason of some weight can he advanced in favour of the process. It is this:—You rarely have at hand, —especially in camp,—a vessel or oven large enough for the task of cooking a big fish en bloc. But after all the method by which the bones are got rid of cannot but be regarded, I think, as the best we can adopt for the majority of tank and river fish. To encourage you in accepting this view, I will place before you an extract from the volume of the Badminton L ibrary on Coarse Fishing, in which the cookery of one of the least esteemed—I might say the most despised—fish that swims in English rivers,—the chub,—is described. Writingof the edible characteristics of this fish, Canon Kingsley propound-