CULINARY Jar TINGS NOR MADRAS I 22 pound the above ingredients thoroughly in a mortar, and when ground to powder, pass it through a tine sieve : bot- tle it, and cork it down securely. Pick, and carefully sift the bottled dried herbs for they often contain hits of stalk and stick. If you desire to make what Gouffe calls “spiced salt,” mix one ounce of the above with four of salt. Spiced pep- per is constantly wanted, and lends that nice sausage fla- vour to savoury pies, rolled heef, brawn, savoury pates, and all forcemeats. Amongst the many barbarous tricks of Native cooks, there is an especial one which I must bring to the most prominent notice. I refer to the method which obtains in the cook- room of removing the feathers from poultry, geese, ducks, and game. I cannot call it “ plucking,” for, as many of you know, the feathers are got rid of wholesale by plunging the bird into scalding hot-water ! The immediate effect of this ignorant habit is to harden and parch the skin of the fowl, to prevent the proper exudation and admission of moisture during roasting, and to render the flesh dry and tasteless. Birds must he plucked by hand, and their small down must be singed. To ensure this being done in your kitchen, order all birds to be brought for inspection when trussed for cook- iii(j, and the smallest experience will enable you to detect the parchment-like skin of the scalded bird, from that of the hand-plucked one, which will he cool and soft, with an umnistakeable freshness which the other cannot have. A basket containing the feathers should also he shown, for they will expose scalding in a moment. It is needless to say, that game is ruthlessly spoiled by this trick of the kitchen, and even the chicken destined for a curry is robbed of half its flavour by being scalded first. The practice is, of course, the offspring of idleness,—a subterfuge to escape trouble. I would also point out that the common way of killing poultry in this country is inhuman, and, in a culinary point