315 C XJBlilE S— CON TIN UED. thoroughly, pick them out, and dry them on a cloth. It very large, you must now divide them in halves length- wise, and sever each half in twain. Dust them over with Hour, and put them on a dish. They are now ready. (c)—Choose a very large cocoanut, the fresher the better, break it in half, and, with a cocoanut scraper, remove the whole of the white flesh, rasping it into a bowl. Upon the raspings thus obtained, pour a breakfast-cupful of boiling water, leave it for a quarter of an hour, and then strain the liquid off. This is the best or “number one” infusion, which must be put away, and not added to the curry till the last thing before serving. Return the raspings to their bowl, and pour over them a pint of boiling water, stir well, and let the liquid stand for half an hour. It should then be strained, and the nutty atoms squeezed dry in muslin, so that every drop of the cocoanut essence may be secured. The liquor thus obtained is the “ number two” infusion. Our preparations are now complete. (cl)—Put two ounces of good tinned butter into a stew- pan, and mix into it, as it melts over a brisk fire, a white Bombay onion shred into rings, and a clove of garlic finely minced. Lightly fry, hut do not allow the onions to turn colour before adding a table-spoonful of good flour, a des- sert-spoonful of turmeric powder, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a scant one of sugar, a tea-spoonful of mixed cloves and cinnamon powder, and, by degrees, the “ number two infu- sion.” A breakfast-cupful of thick chicken broth, or fish consomme—made by simmering some fish-bones, pounded prawn shells, and scraps of fish, in water, with an onion, a carrot, and some parsley—should now go in to assist the composition, together with a lieaped-up table-spoonful of sliced green ginger, and three green chillies cut into Juli- enne-like strips. The liquid is now ready for the prawns, so remove the stew-pan from the fire, and place it in a bath of boiling water, to keep warm, while you add the prawns