385 MENU FOB A PABTY OF EIGHT. of sugar, and a table-spoonful of marsala. Each tablet is marked for five portions. Remember that a 'portion is enough for two persons : I have found a table-spoonful of crumbled Julienne enough for three basins of soup. To preserve the tablet in this climate, I recommend you to break it up carefully, and cork it down in a dry bottle. For the benefit of those who cannot avail themselves of this excellent preparation, the following directions may be given :—take equal parts of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, and celery ; cut them all into thin strips not more than the eighth of an inch across, and an inch long. Put them into a sauce-pan with a couple of ounces of fresh butter, a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar, a little pepper, and a pinch of salt. Toss them lightly on the fire until they take colour slightly, say for five minutes or so, cover them with a little broth from the consomme, simmer, and carefully remove the grease thrown up by the butter. Let the vegetables thus cooked remain in the broth near the fire, nice and hot, until the time of serving, when a few leaves of lettuce and of sorrel finely shredded should be added. The Julienne is now ready to be put into the rest of the consomme, brought to the boil, finely skimmed, and sent up. 2.—Stew a couple of handsome slices of seer fish in a good broth made from bones and trim- mings, assisted by an onion, a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a dessert-spoonful of preserved thyme and marjoram, a minced anchovy, a dozen peppercorns, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of vine- gar, a table-spoonful of chablis or sauterne. Let the fish slices cook slowly in this broth, and when done, drain and place them in a very hot dish, carefully covered up. Strain the broth in which they were cooked, thicken it, add a little well-browned gravy, and throw into it a couple of table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles (previously tossed in 34 Seer with truffle sauce.