429 MENU FOB A PARTY OF EIGHT. earth or sand that may adhere to the pink gills on the concave side, and by patting the top of each mushroom, shake out all grit. It is a very great mistake to ivctsli a mushroom if you can possibly clean it in the way I have described. When satisfactorily prepared, clean the stalks you cut off, and chop them up. Put into a sauce-pan an ounce of butter and stir into it half an ounce of flour, when mixed, add half a pint of made gravy; stir well and throw in the chopped stalks, and peelings, a dessert-spoonful of chopped curled parsley, a tea-spoonful of minced onion, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a dusting of pepper : simmer the sauce until it is thick and rich, add a spoonful of cream, and then strain it. Now butter a silver dish liberally, place the mushrooms upon it head downwards, fill their hollow parts with the thick sauce, and set the dish in the oven (a brisk one) for ten minutes. As soon as the mushrooms flatten themselves, as it were, they are done. Serve on the same dish wrapping a napkin round it. 8.—This dish is not a difficult one. Choose a tin of Ame- rican apricots, drain off their juice and A.pricot custard. place the fruit at the bottom of a glass dish; add enough syrup to the juice of the fruit to cover them, pour into it a wine-glassful of noyeau or maraschino and half an ounce of dissolved gelatine ; when cold, set the glass dish upon ice, and pour the syrup round the fruit by degrees, letting it congeal like jelly and embedding the fruit firmly. Leave the dish in the ice, and then make enough rich custard to form a layer an inch thick on the top of the congealed fruit, mix into the custard half an ounce of dissolved gelatine, and flavour it with vanilla : when quite cold, pour the custard by degrees over the layer of fruit; it should consolidate also ; garnish the surface of the cus- tard with whipped cream in two colours, pink and white (the pink colored with a drop or two of cochineal), and serve straight from the ice.