CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 68 made early in the day, and be then set in the ice-box,- ready to follow the fish or releve, as the case may be, with- out delay, and the sauce can also be similarly treated. Dishes that merely require heating in the oven are a god- send to a cook, for he can compose them at his leisure during the afternoon, and put them aside till within a few minutes of the time when they are wanted, keeping their sauces nice and hot in the bain-marie pan. But the un- happy man who has (say) to turn out a delicately grilled dish of cutlets a la Maintenon, with kramouskys anx huitres to follow—independently of game, joint, sweets, &c., all needing a watchful eye—is surely to be pitied. There is another point to watch when choosing your entries, and that is their general relationship with each other, or with the other dishes that compose your menu. Artists in ordering dinners go as far as to say that nothing should be repeated. You must not give, for instance, a consomme cle volaille, and presently follow it with croquettes cle volaille, or even fowl as a rot. Mutton appearing in an entree must not be seen again in any form. Two white meats ought not to be introduced side by side. Though following this maxim to the best of our power, w.e cannot always rely on being able to carry it out thoroughly in Madras. The market supply is, alas ! too meagre, as a rule, for us to pick and choose as we might wish. To return to our class list of entrees. I cannot too strongly urge you to go in for dishes from class one more than you do. Can anything be more acceptable than a nice juicy little chop from a neck of mutton, on the sides of which the marks of the grid-iron are plainly visible, reposing against a circle of really well-mashed potatoes, or of savoury rice, holding in its centre a puree of celery, a little pile of petits pois, or sauce soubise ? The grid-iron is invaluable; the chop comes to table full of gravy, yet not underdone ; it has, to use a kitchen phrase, “ seen the