MULLIGAT UNNY. 328 ounces of sweet almonds in a mortar with a little milk, using a breakfast-cupful altogether. When fully pounded, I strained the almond milk into the soup, and stopped the simmering. The next step was to pass the whole of the liquid through a tin strainer into a clean howl to catch up I umps of onion, chutney, &c. The muUigatunny having been skimmed, was now ready, all but .the thickening. This process was carried out in due course, with an ounce of butter and one of flour. The soup was brought to boiling- point, and, off the fire, just before serving, a coffee-cupful of the best cream I could get was stirred into the tureen as the soup was poured into it.” When this was presented to the Admiral, the old gentleman was delighted and, altogether forgetting his previous asseveration, exclaimed that he had not eaten such a basin of mulligatunny since serving on the East India station in the Cockatrice in the year 1834. “I knew,” concluded my friend, “ that the dear old man was thinking of ‘ calipash ’ and ‘ calipee ’ when he pitched into me on the previous occasion, but I was not such an ass as to suggest that he had made a mistake.” This recipe of my friend’s may be taken as a very good guide for a mulligatunny made with pure meat stock extracted from veal, mutton, beef, or fowl, and ready-made paste. Yolks of eggs may supply the place of cream, and cocoanut milk may be substituted for the lait cl'amandes. The addition of either almond or cocoanut milk is, how- ever, a sine qua non, if the object be to obtain a soft, creamy, well-flavoured, thick mulligatunny. The straining must also be carried out carefully, and the thickening as well. Eice is served with mulligatunny, but it is, I think, a mistake to do so. We do not call for rice with hare soup, game soup, or mock-turtle ; why, then, should we ruin our appetites by taking rice with so satisfying a potage as mul- ligatunny t Tbe custom lias been handed down to us by our forefathers, who, of course, ate rice with their milligationny,