348 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. bread-crumbing, and bid your cook to be good enough not to spoil “the fry” by the condiments be loves to introduce when frying fish, the delicate flavour of which cannot with- stand the interference of turmeric, b'or example, an old Anglo-Indian recipe for a “frying batter” propounds that some garlic, onions, green ginger, and salt should be pound- ed and mixed with the flour of gram or dhal; to this tyre and turmeric should be added, and when sufficiently moist applied to the fish which should then be fried in ghee ! Surely this elaborate preparation would disguise any fish completely. If you want to orientalise fish for a change, curry it, or serve it as moli. Filleting fresh-water fish is generally a wise proceeding. The Native cook performs the operation well, and you are thus protected as much as possible from swallowing bones, and the unpleasantness of catching one in your throat. All the trimmings which are left after this process has been carried out come in usefully for the stock required for the pie, stew, or sauce, as the case may be. Tbe Indian murral (Tam : Verral) may be likened to the English jack, and be cooked in like manner. Let him be carefully killed, and cleaned as hereinbefore advised. Do not boil him if you can avoid it. if under two pounds in weight, bake him ; if bigger than that, roast him on the spit. In either case he must be stuffed, pike-like, and this pre- paration can, of course, be varied at pleasure. Experience seems to show that ordinary fish derive in cooking the greatest assistance from the essences of shell- fish. Thus oysters, shrimps, prawns, lobster, crayfish, &c., are most valuable in sauces and stuffings. Out in a “tanky' ’ district you often can procure quantities of little fresh- water shrimps and crayfish. With these well cleaned you can compose a very tasty stuffing, using bread-crumb, eggs, the minced shrimps, a little anchovy sauce to strengthen them, a pinch of mace, salt and pepper. Suet or butter