552 OUR KITCHENS IN INDIA. always kept hot, and the boiler, if correctly filled, must contain an unceasing supply of hot water. If, however, these opportunities of economy be neglected, and if the cook be permitted to make up little fires, in addition to that -of the range, here and there in the kitchen in his native fashion, the saving in fuel will, I grant, he small. I know that the “ Duff’s cooking ranges,” which are set- up for the use of British soldiers in the barracks of this Presidency, are generally condemned by the men as re- quiring too much wood. But then they are not utilized in a way by which economy is attainable. T. Atkins re- quires no soup ; he is not particular regarding the tender- ness of the stew he eats; and he rarely wants hot water. He finds the oven alone necessary, for “Jack,” the barrack cook-boy, can use the chatty, the grid-iron, or the frying- pan, in the verandah, over a small charcoal fire, with sufficient cleverness to satisfy his many masters. Yet the ranges in the hospital kitchens are thoroughly appreciated. Hot water is in constant requisition there, soup must be made daily, and meat has to be very carefully cooked. In order, then, to find English ranges economical as fuel consumers, people who buy them must take care that they are turned to their proper and full account. The superior quality of the food cooked with a perfect appliance of this kind when compared with the best results obtainable by the native system, is another strong recom- mendation in favour of the range. Take one item of daily consumption—-our soup. It is not exaggeration to say that, as a general rule, the native cook takes nearly double the amount of meat and hone necessary to produce this article of food. His doing so may be attributed, of course, in a great measure to ignorance ; but he can also plead as an excuse the want of a proper kitchen equipment. His practice, if left to himself, has been explained at page 42. Now, independently of the ignorance there exposed of th$