32 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. making, says the G. C. “there can be no better recipe taken then that of the French pot-uu-feu,” let us therefore consider attentively the following instructions for that most valuable of culinary operations. Put a piece of soup-meat,—say of four pounds weight, in the proportion of three pounds of flesh to one of bone,— (the recipe can, of course, be followed by adding or reducing as you may require but preserving like proportion) tightly bound with a string, with two ounces of salt and the bones separately broken up, into a stock pot filled with cold water, so as to completely cover the meat. Put the pot by the side of the fire and let it become gradually heated. As this takes place, a scum will form upon the surface which must be carefully removed as it rises. When nearly boiling, a coffee cupful of cold water should be thrown into the pot to check ebullition and accelerate the rising of the scum. Repeat this process and skim patiently, removing grease and scum, till the surface is clean. The clearness of the soup will depend, remember, upon all the scum being taken off, and upon the water being kept from boiling point until it is all removed. This having been done; put into the sauce- pan the following vegetables which should have been pre- viously carefully cleaned and cut up, viz.:—a couple of large white onions, a clove of garlic, two large or three small car- rots, two or three turnips, six leeks, one head of celery, a bunch of curly parsley, and two cloves in the onion. Then put in, tied up in a piece of muslin, some thyme, marjoram, and a handful of whole pepper,—a tea-spoonful each of dried thyme and marjoram will be quite enough. It will be found that by adding the vegetables, the boiling of the broth will be thrown back ; as soon however as the bub- bling recommences, watch the vegetables carefully, and re- move them when they are done. If you leave them in the stock pot after they have been cooked, they will spoil the soup. Remove the muslin bag also. You can next put in a dessert-spoonful of sugar, table-spoonful of Harvey