365 CAMP COOKERY. carefully secured at both ends, basted, not overdone, and served straight from the lire, this fragment of hare fable) will be found very tasty. Ramasamy sometimes envelopes his hare in a coating of light batter. Pray caution him never to do so again. Jugged hare (equally applicable to porcupine) is per- haps the best dish for camp life ; by many it is consider- ed in any circumstances the best. This is a simple recipe :—- Proceed as in the foregoing receipt as far as the skinning and cleaning is concerned. When ready, cut the hare up into neat pieces, dredge them with Horn', and give them a few turns in the frying-pan with some butter till they take colour. Prepare beforehand a pint and a half of good strong- stock (that of a fowl with giblets, game fragments, and some Brand’s essence, will do in camp) and choose a vessel that you can close securely with paste : put the pieces of hare into it, with two carrots, two or three large onions, an ounce of celery, the juice of two limes, a table-spoonful of sugar, and one of salt; pour in the stock, throw in a wine- glass of brandy, and seal the vessel as closely as possible ; place it in a pan of cold water, and set it to boil, steaming the covered pot for three hours. When done, open the pot, stir into it a bumper glass of port, a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, and a lump of butter. Or you may strain the gravy, thicken it with the blood or with flour and butter, add the wine, &c., and pour it over the meat again. Serve with a dozen balls of stuffing, made as for roast hare, and fried in butter. Instead of steaming the jar, it may be placed in the oven and baked for two or three hours. This process can be followed with all sorts of game, such as partridges, jungle-fowl, plovers, quail, pigeons, pieces of venison, jungle-sheep, cholum-birds, doves, &c., &c. The ‘Omnium gatherum’ stew is always welcome, and should be regarded as a speciality of camp cookery. Lean bacon, Bologna sausage, and spiced pepper, improve it greatly.